US	47768995	R1XKXJKSZLW9XL	0671025465	961720190	Deviant: The Shocking True Story of Ed Gein, the Original Psycho	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Riviting!	Ed Gein was the king of psychopathic losers. In spite of the horrific nature of his crimes it is almost possible to pity such an addlebrained childish idiot, even an idiot of such monstrous evil. In the end though, it is the evil that overshadows the pathetic incapacity of the man. Gein is of course the source for the films `Psycho', `The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' and even `Silence Of The Lambs'. Never has so much been made out of such a loser. Unable to handle the difficulties of even his simple dissolute existence, Gein's addled brain took refuge first in necrophiliac fantasies and eventually in inept sex driven murder. He also made all sorts of totems out of his victims, from kitchenware to `clothing' and furniture. Schechter tells Gein's pathetic story in graphic detail, and like all of his books, Deviant is riveting. From the description of Gein's trash filled house to the details of the crimes, nothing is left out in this chilling book. The horror of Gein will shock you, his crimes are far worse than those of his on screen copies, but you will be unable to put the book down. This is the first book by Schechter I read, but after finishing it I promptly picked up all the others I could find, all were equally excellent. The book is highly recommended. I also recommend Deranged, Depraved and Bestial.	2002-10-24
US	47768995	R3OW2FYFH86Y1X	0399101810	454977600	Cruising Speed: A Documentary	Books	2	4	34	N	N	Buckley Rests On His Laurals	In this aptly named book Buckley amply demonstrates the dangers of fame, as he has become so pompously self indulgent that he imagines his every thought is gospel to be doted on by his faithful devotees. No doubt his disciples will agree, but the rest of us are just bored. Buckley made his name as a witty and vicious eloquent exponent of conservative political thinking, but there is nothing political here. Truth to be told, there is nothing remotely interesting here, much less profound. Stripped of his politics, Buckley is revealed as a Howard Stern-like shameless self-promoter. Buckley is great writer, no doubt, but even his fine prose cannot make this drivel readable. Meandering and pointless, this book is truly only interesting to those who wish to study the delusions of those that society labels as `important'. Of course it's easy to be conservative when everything is handed to you on a silver platter. With such a background, it is no great achievement to be considered `important'. There are thousands of articulate intellectuals who could have done what Buckley did if they had had his wealthy parents. It's especially important to note, that for all his self-aggrandizement, his wealthy background made his success as a publisher a given. If he failed, some wealthy relative would simply bail him out. It is no surprise that an over educated spoiled son of privilege should become the spokesman for the arrogant nobles obligees set. Stick to `Up from Liberalism'.	2002-10-24
US	47768995	R127TZ0ZY16AJJ	1859846319	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Indictment & Conviction	An excellent little polemic from the king of controversy. Hitchens has been called a traitor to the left, and not simply for his defense of the `war' in Afghanistan, but this should not discourage devoted leftists from reading his vitriol. Here he rakes Kissinger the way that he raked Clinton in `No One Left To Lie To' but with more hard evidence and less vicious innuendo. Indeed, there is no doubt that there is enough here to indict the infamous exponent of real politick and if half of what Hitchens suggests is true, enough to convict the little hatchet man as well. Needless to say, it's hard to believe it isn't true, would Kissinger hesitate to assassinate a man he considered a threat to the entrenched business interests he worshiped? It seems unlikely. OBEY	2002-10-24
US	47768995	R3VTJI4O61OY02	0766012972	54241752	The Jim Crow Laws and Racism in American History	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Better Than Expected, Much Better	Freman's book is both an excellent intro for young readers (as advertised) and an excellent quickie review for adults. Packed with details, the book is well written and gives an excellent broad strokes history of reconstruction, the KKK, Jim Crow and the civil rights movement. It would be easy to find fault and carp over one detail or another that might have been included (say the fact that it was Wilson segregated the army) but the truth is that the book does its job admirably. The section on Booker T Washington and the controversy that surrounded him are especially excellent. Unlike traditional history texts, this book does not assume it's young readers are to unsophisticated or innocent to understand the complexities of the issues, and it does not attempt to shield them from the dark side of US history. Lynching, for example, looms large. Highly recommended to young readers or their instructors seeking a more rounded treatment of the origins of the Civil Rights movement and also to anyone who wants an easy reading refresher. Should get six stars.	2002-08-21
US	47768995	R3MN9KPT40OUS3	1583224920	351268225	Bin Laden, Islam, and America's New "War on Terrorism" (Open Media Series)	Books	2	12	29	N	N	Slight And Flawed	Ahh, educators! Why is it that intellectuals so often mistake common sense for the Wisdom of Solomon? Perhaps it's because common sense is such a rare commodity amongst the intellectual elite. Muslims are people too? ATOUNDING! To tell the truth, there ain't much to this vapid little quickie, just a lot of anti-American venom, a few interesting tid bits about the middle east, a lot of common sense disguised as wisdom and about a half ton of hypocrisy. I suppose that it's possible that AbuKahalil legitimately mistakes the racist, imperialist propaganda of our unelected President as the true expression of the will of every patriotic American. Given that every media toady in the US seems to go out of his way to swear fealty to George II, it is an understandable error, but one expects a little more sophistication from an academic. Part of AbuKahalil's hypocrisy comes from his complaints that so-called middle eastern experts do not understand the middle east, but he feels perfectly capable of demonstrating his ignorance of his own country in the same fashion. He further complains that unelected leaders in the middle east are wrongly viewed as representing their people even as he wrongly assumes his own unelected leader represents the USA. He is correct when he suggests that like middle easterners Americans suffer from the presence of religious extremists, but he seems completely unaware of the difference in the magnitude of the problem. He is totally off base when he suggests that there is a double standard for terrorists in the USA. Someone should inform him that the IRA has not flown any planes into the world trade center. It is hardly surprising that we are more concerned about terrorists targeting the US than those who are not. He further suggests that home grown terrorists like Tim McVie are not considered terrorists, this is simply a bare faced lie. Evidently AbuKhalil doesn't get out much, but right wing terrorists have been routinely identified as terrorists foras long as I can remember. I was also amused by his suggestion that his book might be offensive because of its angry tone, I found the prose to be dry, but bloodless academics are often unfamiliar with polemic prose. If you are seeking an understanding of 9-11 and it's meaning, look elsewhere, try Chomsky or Vidal, this book was a big disappointment.	2002-08-21
US	47768995	R5PJOIGEHXOLK	0471180416	548401216	Overdrive: Bill Gates and the Race to Control Cyberspace	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Actually In Park	Gossipy, disorganized and poorly written anti-Gates screed. This book is so badly written it's hard to get through it, even for someone who is a knee jerk hater of Chairman Bill (like, well, me). The author meanders about, jumping from topic to topic like a kangaroo, leaving the reader at first dazed and confused, but finally bored and annoyed. Worse, he spends an inordinate amount of time discussing Gates personal life, from the chairman's alleged over attachment to his mother to the birth of his kids. Excuse me, but I'm interested in the business end of Gates' life, I don't care if he wants his mommy. Wallace spends an entire chapter gushing about Gates' Hawaiian wedding and how exclusive and elaborate it was. Doubtless Wallace is envious, I was bored. The anti-trust battles are poorly explained, at best, why did Bingaman refuse to prosecute chairman bill? We can only guess. This book has little to recommend it, although Judge Sporkin thought highly of the prequol, HARD DRIVE. I never read it, and after reading this disjointed mess I don't think I will.	2002-08-14
US	47768995	R394HNKMJ4P49	156025100X	260150670	Blood in the Face: The Ku Klux Klan, Aryan Nations, Nazi Skinheads, and the Rise of a New White Culture	Books	5	21	30	N	N	Detailed, Well Written, Excellent	An excellent, detailed textbook style examination of the radical right, in all its manifestations. Of all the books I've read on the right, and I've read a few, this one is the best. Carefully crafted and scholarly, Ridgeway pulls no punches. He gives detailed explanations of the history, origins and rhetoric of the KKK, The Posse Comitatus, The American Nazi Party and many related right wing haters. He makes copious use of the rights own pamphlets and speeches to reveal their twisted belief systems, and the book is full of pictures and even includes exerts of the infamous Turner Diaries. Well written and readable the book is also a gripping page-turner and will definitely keep you interested until the end. My only gripe is with the final chapter, which is unduly alarmist. It is true that the radical right is active and that they are a danger to society, but I am not convinced by the notion that there values are more acceptable in society than they have been in the past. Was Bull Conner an outcast in his time? Is David Duke more important politically than George Wallace was? Has the KKK been able to defeat a presidential candidate in modern times the way they defeated Al Smith? I also found the suggestion that Madonna and Tom Petty of all people are spreading racist propaganda to be laughable. Further the notion that opposition to affirmative action is evidence of a racist mindset is absurd, and revealing of the authors `liberal' bias. Affirmative action is not only a racist notion, based as it is on the idea that minorities need special help to succeed, but also has given aid and comfort to the racist cause. Racists can point to Affirmative Action as proof of their own beliefs. That being said, the ideological quirks of the author do not detract from the excellence of his scholarship. As a detailed explanation of the radical right across the broad spectrum, the book is peerless. Highly recommended.	2002-08-09
US	47768995	R1Q7TKE2L4B6RH	0060927895	888145601	Gathering Storm: America's Militia Threat	Books	5	12	24	N	N	Smell The Fear	The fact that this book has been panned by actual militia members ought to tell you something, they are afraid of Mo Dees and everything he represents. His success in battling the radical right is legendary, and their hatred of him burns with a fevered pitch. Dees has a ton of creditability on the militia issue, being marked for death by The Order will do that for you. To tell the truth, a lot of what Dees has written is available elsewhere, either in Harvest Of Rage or Blood In The Face (both of which are excellent) and those familiar with the excess of the radical right will find few surprises here. Still the book is well written, engaging and readable and if nothing else will be an excellent refresher. To the uninitiated it will be a revelation. I especially liked the details of the Waco and Ruby Ridge. The discussion of the thinking of these people was also excellent.  A fine addition to the cannon.	2002-08-08
US	47768995	R3VBLJK0RMHYSF	1591291194	740920228	Summer of the Nixen	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Excellent Adventure For the Whole Family!	Summer of the Nixon is an excellent sci/horror novel in the tradition of Harry Potter, and like the Potter novels; this book isn't for kids only. Fast paced, original and easy to read, the book has teen romance and demon battling reminiscent of Buffy The Vampire Slayer, complete with powerful super chick and wise-cracking band of misfit sidekicks. When the kids accidentally freeze time they unleash the hoard of nix, a rampaging band of demons that will destroy the world if not stopped soon! It's a page-turner, and well worth the cost, if you're smart, you'll buy two and give one to someone you love!	2002-08-08
US	47768995	R1SVI8LJ5VHK1U	0963416308	15419164	Votescam: The Stealing of America	Books	1	10	39	N	N	This Book Is A Disaster	I picked up this book expected a detailed discussion of voting irregularities in Florida, tied to the election of 1992, what I got was an unconvincing meandering mess. The book is full of supposed conversations presented verbatim, although not in such a way as to convey anything meaningful. Chuck full of unexplained `we knew what that meant' winking and loving descriptions of their own disbelief about what they perceived to be going on without explanation of what they thought was going on, this book is short on facts and long on baloney. Indeed, the Collier brothers seem more interested in name dropping and bragging about their alleged success as concert promoters and radical protesters than in establishing their `argument'. Boring, tedious and pretentious, the book is without redemption. Since it documents nothing, the book will not even appeal to knee-jerk anti-establishment radicals like, well, me. I don't mind having paid the five bucks the book cost me, but I can't get my reading time back. Deserves to be out of print.	2002-08-07
US	47768995	R2P5Y9XC33Z1Q1	0743223489	374320479	It Looks Like a President Only Smaller: Trailing Campaign 2000	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Excellent In Spite Of Flaws	Achanbach's little book is as funny as it is easy to read. It's the kind of book your sarcastic roommate might write if he road along on the press bus during a national election. Of course, the books strength is also it's weakness, since Achenbach seems to know as much about the history of politics and elections as your sarcastic roommate might. His observation that the campaign was vapid and devoid of ideas was accurate but his assumption that it was unique because of this is faulty. Likewise his assessment of the candidates, summed up by his title, is correct but his assumption that in the past the country sent moral or intellectual giants onto the campaign trail is flawed. Every politician is considered a pandering vapid idiot in his time, and is excoriated by his enemies for his intellectual and moral deficits. It is possible that Gore was more boring than average and W was stupider, but you could not discern this simply by reading accounts written during elections. Achenbach is on target when he suggests that the candidates do not represent the voters, but again he is off base when he tries to explain why. He would have us believe that it is the independent voters that vote for the likes Nader and Buchanan are to blame. It is not those who actually vote for leaders they admire who are the problem, it is those like Achenbach who dutifully pull the handle for whomever the party bosses select. Achenbach is no Jack Germound, to be sure, and this book should not be seen as a serious, detailed explanation of the nuts and bolts of the campaign. It is not. It is a playful romp, a witty, vicious assault from a neophyte. There is nothing wrong with that. It's darn funny and quite a pleasure to read. Highly recommended.	2002-08-01
US	47768995	R1G6RSKSGWDM	1878825011	839698892	What Uncle Sam Really Wants (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Question Authority	Chomsky's superb little pamphlet is best seen as an introduction to the left. Ideas like Chomsky's are given little notice in our society, and anything that smacks of criticism of the power elite is dismissed out of hand. Of course, this makes the writings all the more important. Those aware will not be surprised by anything Chomsky says here, his observations are obvious to those who think critically about the way our world works. To those who are open minded but unaware they will be a revelation. To the brainwashed, they will be a horror. Chomsky is hated by the right not so much because of what he says, but because of what he represents. The idea that average people can make decisions about their own lives and rule their government is profoundly disturbing to those who consider themselves our betters. Read it, if for no other reason than because the Republican's wish you wouldn't.	2002-07-31
US	47768995	R87JYXD19KFH3	156584260X	345811220	The Way Things Aren't: Rush Limbaugh's Reign of Error : Over 100 Outrageously False and Foolish Statements from America's Most Powerful Radio and TV	Books	5	24	36	N	N	Listen To The Right Howl	That Rush Limbaugh is a big fat idiot should be obvious to all, but since it isn't FAIR is here to point out that fact. Conservatives hate this book, not so much because of what it says, since as a rule they don't read books, but because of what it represents. The idea that an established authority (no matter how dubious or self appointed) can be criticized is profoundly disturbing to their staid little brains, especially if that authority is on their team. Never mind that Limbaugh contradicts himself, as FAIR deftly points out, the rightists have never read him either. Is Alar harmless? Was the Denny beating portrayed as a race crime? Is the Supreme Court controlled by conservatives? Find out the answers to these and many more questions. Will be a wake up call to those unfamiliar with Limbaugh's right wing distortions. Will be enjoyed by those who are aware. Will terrify his fans, if they dare to read it.	2002-07-31
US	47768995	R1Q0GTSJWI07E9	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	No Hyperbole In The Title	I have to admit, I don't like Bugliosi, As a rule, I think he is as ignorant as he is pompous, but he is on the mark here. Bugliosi, with deftness belied by his loutish persona, skewers the `reasoning' of the Florida five. Step by step and point by point he destroys the lies the Justices clothed themselves in and exposes their hypocrisy, especially that of chief criminal, Anton Scalia. He does not spend as much time as Dershowitz on motive, which he considers largely irrelevant, he simply points out the rather obvious fact that the Court's action was without precedent in law, and contradicted the alleged principles of these `conservative' justices. It will be difficult for Republican Robots to dismiss Bugliosi out of hand, since he claims to be a Republican himself (although I think his notion that poor people have rights will get him read out of the party if this book doesn't). The first half of the book, written originally as a Nation article, deals with the `logic' of the decision and is by far the better half. In the second part, Bugliosi sums up the court cases that brought the parties to the Supreme Court, and though he does a good job, it is marred by Bugliosisms (both I'm so smart posturing and shameless plugging for his last book). I suspect that the editors at the Nation helped to tone down Bugliosi's excesses in the earlier part and make it much more stinging than it would have been otherwise. This book, which aptly make the case for criminal prosecution of the Florida five, is a must read for every American, even right wing soreheads who believe everything the TV tells them.	2002-07-30
US	47768995	R13F12CM53LUAR	0345286243	158243150	The Lure of the Basilisk	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Watt-Eve�s Finest	Watt-Evens is an excellent, if overlooked sci-fi/fantasy writer, and I have been a fan almost as long as he's been writing. This book, the first of the Lords Of Dus or Garth series was the first he published, Dus is his best work, and this is the best of Dus. I can still remember the amazement I felt reading Watt-Evens' book, one of those rare fantasy novels that seems surrounded by a very real and fleshed out world. The main character, acting out of neither good nor noble compunctions is however, a good `man', which gives hint to the complexity with which Watt-Evens draws his characters and spins his plots. Nothing is as it seems in a Watt-Evens story, and surprise lurks around every corner, and The Lure Of The Basilisk is no exception. I especially enjoyed Garth's practical matter of fact take on everything, truly a convincing character. Shang, The Baron and even The King In Yellow are also fascinating, well drawn characters with complex motivations and realistic reactions. But oh, Garth's poor feet!	2002-07-30
US	47768995	R30FH798984VY3	1587156652	569599902	The Lords of Dus	Books	5	14	18	N	N	An Enduring Classic	Watt-Evens is a brilliant fantasy writer, and here at last is his masterpiece, all collected in one place. This four book series is rightly help up in the first rant of epic fantasy with Tolkien's Lord Of The Rings. The story is more in line with Moorcock's Elric series, dealing as it does with the doings of Gods and demonic blades, but Watt-Evens' work is far superior to Moorecock's. Watt-Evens' three dimensional characters have realistic reactions to their bizarre circumstances, and his world is fleshed and surprise filled. Each book is worthy of five stars and the whole series is almost to good to be true. Recommended to any fantasy fan.	2002-07-30
US	47768995	RHEP4B0TIHT8E	156129070X	113747180	Human Harvest : The Sacramento Murder Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Some Think Women Do Not Kill	This is the story of the notorious Sacramento Black Widow killer who preyed upon the aged and the invalid in the 80s. Dorothea Puente used the weakness of our social net to exploit the less fortunate while stealing their social security checks. Running an illegal boarding house for invalids, she was able to maintain the illusion of respectability because the Social Welfare bureaucracy was simply to overworked to root her out. Although some did try to bring her to the attention of authorities when her charges continued to cash their checks even after they disappeared. Dorothea, a petty con woman turned mass killer, simply killed them and planted them in her well groomed garden, all without even batting an eye. Her cold blooded grandmotherly persona even allowed her to escape the police and flee to LA as the cops were digging up her yard. She simply walked away, escorted though the gawking public by the very police who were investigating her. While it is true that she was not a serial killer per say (since her killings were not sexually motivated) she still gives lie to the myth that women are less willing to kill to men. Her selfishness dominated her so completely she was unable to feel remorse, indeed, when caught red handed; she still tried to play the injured party and attempted to bask in the limelight. She worried continually about who would own the rights to her story and complained about all sorts of imagined slights, never once acknowledging guilt for her crimes.	2002-07-27
US	47768995	R1K8KELFU4NICI	0805057552	202484750	Barbarians Led by Bill Gates: Microsoft From The Inside: How The World's Richest Corporation Wields Its Power	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Excellent Attack On MS From An Insider	An insider's account of the development of windows and related events, Barbarians is excellent reading. It explodes the right wing fetish about the genius of Bill Gates, and nullifies the equally baseless conservative notion that huge bureaucratic enterprises are efficient, as long as they are private. It is also quite revealing of the dangers of allowing the monopolistic practices of any business to remain unchallenged. The thuggish tactics of Microsoft, from it's days as a IBM toady to it's genesis as Corporate bully number one, coupled with the mindless greed, the idea theft and the thick headed stupidity of the Microsoft upper management reveal the true nature of the corporate capitalist state.  Worse for Chairman Bill, the book cannot be dismissed as the sour grapes ranting of unhappy competitors since Eller made millions as a Microsoft software developer and Edstrom is the daughter of one of MS' chief PR goons. Barbarians should be read by fans and foes of Microsoft alike, if for no other reason than to witness the alienation and frustration of all corporate employees, even those that are millionaires. Death to the corporate state.	2002-07-27
US	47768995	R983S6E3L6GJY	0722308396	236114045	Dark Nights and Darker Days	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, But Not Excellent	An interesting account of one mans experience as a victim of Nazi terror. It's important to note that Purcell was an ethnic Pole and not a Jew. In this country we tend to forget that the Nazi's victims included many millions who were not Jewish.  Six million Poles according to this book, greater losses than the US, Japan the UK and France combined. Purcell went into prison at the age of 15; his 18-year-old brother received a death sentence. Especially interesting is what happened at the wars end and in the aftermath, including Purcell's tragic decision to return to his homeland, into the hands of the Russians.	2002-07-27
US	47768995	R17I3YUMV6WTXL	0806520027	327332350	The Dysfunctional President: Understanding the Compulsions of Bill Clinton	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Understanding Bubba? Perhaps	As a rule, I am scornful of books that attempt to psychoanalyze public figures from afar; indeed, I am skeptical about psychology in general. In this case, the author himself points out that his analysis should only be taken so seriously considering he has never seen the 'patient'. I am also dubious about the notion of 'syndromes' in general. Certainly Bill is a liar and a vacillator who denies personal responsibility, but are these traits really caused by the fact that his father was an alcoholic? So I came to the book a skeptic. That being said, I found the book very compelling. The most amazing thing about it is it seems to predict the Lewinsky scandal, and Clinton's reaction to it. Those that loath Bill Clinton will certainly enjoy it, and find it very convincing. Those that love him will dismiss it out of hand. Those who are in between will be very disturbed.	2002-07-24
US	47768995	R1PODMF8OUVK0M	0061092215	68420830	Hunting the Devil: The Pursuit, Capture and Confession of the Most Savage Serial Killer in History	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Aptly Titled, Key Word is HUNT	Andrei Chikatilo was the most infamous Russian serial killer of all time, and with good reason. His reign of terror was as long as his court antics were bizarre. He is in the first rank of cannibal killers, right up there with more familiar monsters like Jeffrey Dalmer and Ed Gein. Although within the police state of the Soviet Union he was able to operate much longer. But this book is as much about the pursuer as the pursued, indeed Inspector Issa Kostoev really takes center stage. The story is told from a cops perspective and even details the politics that surround the investigation. Especially interesting are the appearances of other less well-known deviants that Kostoev encounters along the way (like Anthony Slivko). Also of interest were the cat and mouse techniques that Kostoev used to break Chikatilo during interrogation, and how the killers party affiliation helped him early in his career. There is a lot of interesting stuff here, but those seeking understanding of the why of what Chaikatilo did must look elsewhere.	2002-07-23
US	47768995	R13FJP5B57KK6U	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	5	7	9	N	N	First Draft History	Bobby's first hand account of the Cuban missile crisis was obviously written with an eye toward his 1968 presidential bid. In fact he was assassinated before compelling it, although the complete story is told. Not surprisingly he pays tribute to his mattered brother and if anything downplays his own role. Quite an interesting device, presenting the author as humble as well as battle hardened. The interpretation it presents, with both Khrushchev and JFK portrayed as being eager for a face saving piece is quite familiar (an easy position to take since Khrushchev was out of power and thus not a potential threat). It is other unnamed powers in Russia that are blamed for the hard line position of the USSR. Interesting to note the demand of the Russians that the US remove the missiles in Turkey and Kennedy's claim that his brother had already ordered it and the order was not carried out to a bureaucratic snafu Well written and easy reading, 13 Days is a quickie, a bit of historical candy for junkies.  Highly recommended for its insight into the events, as well as the intentions of one of America's best-loved martyrs.	2002-07-23
US	47768995	R1TWACA8G3IC6W	0670513830	876285446	Blue Smoke and Mirrors	Books	5	5	7	N	N	As Always, A Must Read	Like everything written by politics' dynamic duo, this book is excellent. Witcover and Germond wrote books on Presidential elections from 1976 to 1992, taking off from where White left off (the Carter/Ford book is actually Witcover alone). This one is about Carter Reagan, and it is fabulous. It's a nuts and bolts horse race book, and one of the finest of the type. The description of Reagan as a bumbler with no real vision will surprise those who imagine that Reagan was perceived as some sort of political giant in his time. The depiction of Carter as the ineffective moderate challenged on the left by Te Kennedy will also surprise readers not familiar with the times. Although it is all excellent, the account of Kennedy's sputtering inarticulate attempt to unseat Carter is probably the best part, also notable is the treatment of the early Republican battles (although I could would have liked to here more about the lessor Republicans in the field, especially Phil Crane). Also of interest to those outside the political mainstream is Anderson's mistreatment by the political establishment. Needless to say, this presages similar troubles suffered by Perot and Nader in later elections, especially the debate committees refusal to consider a debate until his numbers had fallen down enough that he could be excluded under their rules. This action renders the sham democracy of America naked. Read It. A	2002-07-23
US	47768995	R3W2Z12UP1XU9J	1859843980	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	5	4	10	N	N	Throw Away The Key	An excellent little polemic from the king of controversy. Hitchens has been called a traitor to the left, and not simply for his defense of the 'war' in Afghanistan, but this should not discourage devoted leftists from reading his vitriol. Here he rakes Kissinger the way that he raked Clinton in 'No One Left To Lie To' but with more hard evidence and less vicious innuendo. Indeed, there is no doubt that there is enough here to indite the infamous exponent of real politick and if half of what Hitchens suggests is true, enough to convict [him] as well. Needless to say, it's hard to believe it isn't true, would Kissinger hesitate to assassinate a man he considered a threat to the entrenched business interests he worshiped? It seems unlikely. OBEY	2002-07-23
US	47768995	RNUDCT9NKIIK8	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Although The Charges Of Racism Are Silly	Given their attachment to the Reagan administration, I suppose I should not be surprised to learn that N&P are conservatives. But it was a bit disconcerting to read about the evils of hippiedom n a sci-fi work. Indeed, given the obvious fear of black gangsters and white [addicts], and the heroic actions of boy scouts and rugged individualist Senators, this book can easily be seen as a reactionary screed against the excesses of the sixties. The misogynistic clichs about how women must retreat to the kitchen when the times get really tough are expected. Still, the macho posturing is par for the course in this field, and does not mar the work over much. The story is quite entertaining, one would hardly think that the tail of a rock hitting the earth would be engaging, but N&P are nothing if not master story tellers. In the pre-apocalypse the characters drive the book, in the post apocalypse it's the story of their fates. Either way, it's an engaging page-turner. Almost any N&P work is worth the price of admission, but this one is a bargain at twice the price. They should make a mini series out of it.	2002-07-23
US	47768995	R2XSN79L6LNG34	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	1	40	74	N	N	Disapointing	Considering how slim this little pamphlet is, it's surprisingly repetitive. Even given its brevity, it's surprisingly slight. Sad to say, there isn't much here. Sure there are a few tidbits of interest, but long time readers of Chomsky will hardly be surprised by his war crimes charge against the US. Taken verbatim from radio interviews, the work can't even pretend to treat it's subjects with any depth. A few pithy comments from Chomsky and off we go to the next chapter in which another interview illustrates the same pithy comments from Chomsky.  The editor claims that they removed certain repetitive passages, but one has the feeling that if all repetitive verbiage was removed, the book would be about three pages long. Frankly I think this quickie is attempt to `cash in' on the legions of disaffected middle class youths that eagerly buy anything that is anti-American and will not criticize as long as they get there `fix'. Disappointing even at the low price, my advice is save your dough for a similarly priced polemic by Gore Vidal.	2002-07-23
US	47768995	R7VZQ9E0TR7LD	0895265079	535613932	Presumed Guilty: The Tragedy of the Rodney King Affair	Books	4	19	28	N	N	For Those Who Dare, The Other Side	An excellent well-written defense of the infamous police who beat Rodney King. Koon, of course, was the Sgt. in charge at the scene, so he can hardly be considered to be an unbiased source. He makes his case with some skill, and he is able to present himself successfully as a sympathetic character. He points out that most of those who condemn him out of hand really have no idea what went on that night. He lays his defense out carefully and goes point by point explaining his own thinking and his perception of what happened. Koon emphasizes his belief that King was on PCP and his contention that if the police had been able to employ a chokehold the whole incident would never have occurred.  He also takes a few well aimed shots at his old boss, the controversial Police Chief Darrel Gates... He also makes a deft attack on the media's evident bias against him, and ruefully points out that the media's `public person' defense of their actions was self created since they made Koon a `public person'. He also rightly points out that the Federal Case was double jeopardy. One need not be convinced by the argument to appreciate the importance of the book. The picture on the back with Koon looking sorrowful and sheepish though, is a bit much.	2002-07-23
US	47768995	RRLJ0TABTYLV8	076580400X	129704079	Two Steps Ahead of the Thought Police	Books	1	3	33	N	N	Disinformation From big Brother	Why is it that conservatives imagine that their politically correct ramblings are somehow `controversial'? Needless to say, Leo is a reprehensible Republican robot, right in the dead center pf the political mainstream. He espouses knee jerk homophobia, unregenerate misogyny and a weepy scorn for the cult of the victim, not exactly the views of a radical. All the while, he himself claims victim status based on being a `middle aged white male', again the hypocrisy is not exactly daring. One after another, he addresses every favorite topic of the dopey right, from anti-abortion to anti-intellectualism, always sure to keep his objections within the limits proscribed by conservative orthodoxy. A fan of the backward looking Anton Scalia, Leo's screeds are as brief as they are simplistic. He does not really try to address the issues that he writes about, he simply mouths Republican clichs and moves on.  Worse than the tedious familiarity of his ideas is the unimaginative nature of his prose. The writing is so poor that it's hard to finish the book, in spite of the fact that most of the tiresome `screeds' are so short. No new Buckley here. There is a reason Leo hasn't burst out on the National scene; he is far to pedestrian a writer and a thinker to have any impact. Indeed, how can one make an impact by following the trends?<BR>PS Be advised, if you buy this book, you may be stuck with it, I have yet to find a used bookstore that will take my copy!	2002-07-18
US	47768995	R2RS3CNVY2SU5M	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	5	14	27	N	N	No More Republican Judges	I'll be first to admit that I am no fan of Dershowitz, but here he is right on the mark. His scathing take on the Republican junta that appointed George II is as vicious as it is devastating. He shreds the brain twisting excuses of the right-wingers who have attempted to fit the destruction of Federalism into the `ideology' of the right after the fact. He uses the record of the Florida Five to reveal their pathetic hypocrisy, their craven dishonesty and their callous calculation. Each of the five suspects expects a payoff for his vote, and they will doubtless get it. Dershowitz spares no one, however, as he points out that the judicial activism of the so-called left both laid the foundation for the current right wing judicial lawmaking lawbreakers and deftly demonstrates how that very activism produced the reaction that has lead to the elevation of phony ideologues like Scalia and vicious partisan yes men like Rehnquist and Thomas. The most searing indictment is for O'Connor, the partisan hack who openly stated she would not retire unless her successor was a right wing activist and who muttered that the election of Gore would be a disaster. It is clear that the partisans would do or say anything to get their guy in office. Right wing Justices appoint right wing Presidents who appoint right wing Justices. A vicious circle. Then comes homeland security and the rounding up of `enemies of the state'. This is democracy?	2002-07-18
US	47768995	R12TKQSO3XH8EP	0671025449	502388049	Depraved	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Think Seriel Killers Are Caused By TV? Think Again	The Green Goblin visited me while I was reading this book; she picked it off my reading table and literally could not put it down. She finished it in a day. It's that good. The story is that of HH Holmes, an American Jack The Ripper who built a murder castle (complete with secret doors, acid vats and chutes to send bodies to the basement) and killed an unknown number of people at the turn of the century. Holmes' depravity and audacity was unmatched, in addition to killing his victims he tried to exploit their remains for profit. In some cases he simply sold their skeletons to science, in others he tried to collect on their life insurance and or inheritance. Unique among serial killers, Holmes actually seemed to be smart; his story is almost too incredible to be believed. Read it.	2002-07-18
US	47768995	R1ISKF4KOV3CIZ	0208023100	774405842	Dragon and the Cross: The Rise and Fall of the Ku Klux Klan in Middle America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Even better Than I Hoped	Although this book bears the legend `The Rise And Fall Of The KKK In Middle America' it's really the story of the rise and fall of charismatic Grand Dragon David Stephanson and the Klan of Indiana. Of course, that is not a bad thing, because the story is quite fascinating, and as the author deftly points out, still relevant today. <BR>Stephenson, something of a near do well, finds success and almost unlimited power through the newly reborn KKK of the twenties. Although he seemed to have little use for the philosophy that drove the organization he still was able to use it to propel him to a position of prominence similar to political bosses like Tweed or like minded populists like Huey Long. He even dreamed of one day becoming President, and according to some accounts, a strong man in the style of Mussolini. <BR>The Klan of the twenties had little relation to either its predecessors or it's ancestors of today, except for the ceremonies, the hood and the hatred. In fact, they had more in common with Christian right groups like The Moral Majority. The Klan of the twenties, modern sympathizers may want to note, was more concerned with the dangers of papists than of blacks. Indeed, the anti-catholic nature of the Klan was the probably the predominate feature of the organization, and one of the reasons they opposed Democratic President aspirant Al Smith. The other reason of course was `demon rum'. We tend to forget the importance of wets and drys in the era of prohibition, but the KKK of the 20s were as much about moral crusading and nationalism as Catholic bashing. Made up of WASPs of the fundamentalist persuasion, they attempted to impose their moral values on everyone, much like right wingers today, and much like right wing groups today, their leader failed to live up to the diktat's he wished to impose on others.<BR>Stephenson, himself a drunk and slut, fell from grace after causing the demise of a young girl whom he desired. He kidnapped her, he raped her, he bit herviciously and did not bother to get her help when she took poison in response to his amorous attentions. Stephenson's minions mostly abandoned him at this point, except those that denied it ever took place. Indeed, despite his overt threats, even the politicians that he owned were willing to be exposed rather than defend him. One might think that moral crusaders of our own time could learn a lesson from this true-life parable, but that is perhaps asking too much.	2002-07-18
US	47768995	R1TNC5DOZK60ZG	015132302X	78760187	A Ford, not a Lincoln	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Quick Read, And Well Worth It!	Reeves is a veteran political reporter whose excellent insights and smooth prose are guaranteed to provide a pleasant, educational read. Although Reeves portrays Ford as a dummy, he presents him as a well-meaning dummy. Thus his take can hardly be considered critical. Indeed, Reeves assigns Ford's every success to the latter's naivete combined with his unquestioning loyalty to party. Ford's rise to Minority Leader and eventually Vice President are based on the actions of others, and the estimates of elites that Ford will be inoffensive and controllable. Indeed, he portrays the President as a captive of his own administration, controlled by the Nixon holdovers and their strong ideas, from the ubiquitous Kissinger to the reluctantly deposed Haig. Reeves explains the Nixon pardon strictly in this context, as the innocent action of true party loyalist, not as a cynical payoff for services rendered, or even a cynical partisan f-k you to the country. For those interested in politics and Presidents, Reeves should be classed with Witcover and Germond, as a must read. For those who have a passing interest he should be taken as an excellent readable primer, if it's not all you need to know, it's most of it. A bargain at any price.	2002-07-17
US	47768995	R21Y0WD97S65JY	0947117806	533202368	The Two Faces of George Bush	Books	2	6	37	N	N	NOT Worth reading	Written about George I, this angry polemic is more pamphlet than book, and though hard on rhetoric it is short on credibility. In fact, unfounded accusations seem to be about all it has to offer, along with a healthy dose of right wing paranoia. The author makes much of poppy's membership in the Skull And Bones fraternity, which may in fact be a secret satanic cabal bent on world domination, but is probably just a college drinking club. It also includes the expected references to the tri-lateral commission, the council on foreign affairs, the UN, The Rockefellers, and other radical right boogies (although no mention is made of black helicopters).  A previous owner of my copy felt the need to underline Rockefeller's name and note the dread word `liberal' in the margin, this is the audience that Sutton is going for. The fact that he relies on Bo Gritz as a source does not exactly lend him credibility. For those unfamiliar, Gritz is a radical gun nut and anti-Semite with militia connections who is famous for his efforts to find Vietnam MIAs and to expose the Jewish world conspiracy. The author also spends a lot of time trying to establish that poppy, in addition to being an internationalist (read: TRAITOR) is a wimp. Sutton's baseless accusations of drug use and infidelity would be amusing if they were less poorly presented, but they come off as simply mean spirited. I give the author some credit for mentioning Prescott Bush's Nazi connections but this is not exactly designed as a serious work, the book is not even compelling to fanatic Bush haters like, well, me. Should have been written in all caps.	2002-07-17
US	47768995	R8RR7KC2U2LJN	0836210913	808188806	Running in Place: How Bill Clinton Disappointed America	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Quite Good, In Spite Of Some Flaws	A well written, brief and entertaining attack on Clinton from a mainstream  leftist. Richard Reeves, a long time President watcher (starting with JFK) provides an excellent explanation of the forces swirling around the Clinton administration that helped form the policies of the President, but he seems to have missed the truth about the man himself. Reeves suggests that Clinton was unaware that he was signing up with the conservative mainstream elements of his party, in fact Clinton has always been a leader of those very forces. Needless to say, Reeves seems a bit naive, largely because he seems to have accepted Clinton's claims to be a 'liberal' (in the misused American meaning) based on Clinton's own protestations. In fact, Clinton has acted just as one would expect a 'new democrat' to act, as an unapologetic big business toady. Still, the errors of interpretation do not mar the analysis of what happened, nor the excellence of the writing. Like any book by Reeves, it is a must for serious President watchers and a great brief for those with a passing interest in Bubba. All in all, a five star book that will strain neither your checkbook nor your calendar. I was disappointed by the lack of an index. Highly recommended.	2002-07-17
US	47768995	R118ER14VJCB5B	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	5	6	12	N	N	An Excellent Primer For Democratic Partisans	I'll admit it, like a lot of radicals, I took Carville to be a dumb Redneck scumbag who did not believe in his own cause, but unlike a lot of radicals, I read him anyway. I was impressed. His passion, his humor and his well-documented defense of his ideological position impressed me. Carville is a partisan, make no mistake, he hates and fears Newt Gingrich and his cronies the way that little children hate and fear the boogieman, as inexplicable monsters bent on destruction for destructions sake. Of course, being a Democrat, he is willing to give credit where credit is due and admit that the right can be right about some things (one will never hear a Republican credit the Democrats with anything except maybe, grudgingly, good intentions). Those that are seeking a response to Republican mumbo jumbo need look no further; Carville provides both quickie one liners and more detailed refutations. He goes after right wing targets (like big government) and sacred cows (like the flat tax) with intellectual deftness that belies his dumb hick persona. He also does an excellent job of skewering Republican hypocrites (like Phil Graham, the pro-free enterprise right winger who, like so many pro-free enterprise right wingers, has spent his whole life working for the eeeeevil government) and Republican dingbats (like Fred Heineman who thinks his 180,000 a year income makes him `lower middle class'). Highly recommended for mainstream Democrats seeking ammo to use on their mainstream conservative critics as well as Republicans looking to understand the positions of their ideological opponents (do the latter exist?).	2002-07-17
US	47768995	R2SK6UI3ASB86J	067940290X	436677194	Social Insecurity: The Crisis in America's Social Security System and How to Plan Now for Your Own Financial Survival	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Relevent Once Again	Although written in the early nineties, the return of the social security issues and the Republican economic collapse have rendered this book relevant again. It provides a good background and bare bones analysis of the history of the program, as well as the nature of the crises as it stood at the time. It also includes a fine assessment of the then currant reform/repair formulas. Not surprisingly, the return of the problem has lead to the return of many of the same proposals, including that old Republican fetish, privatization. The authors own solutions are interesting, and complicated enough that they are not to be dismissed out of hand, although her balance the budget suggestion has clearly not solved the issue. However, it is certain that accepting all her proposals would help considerably, since calls on both business and individuals to pitch in. The second half of the book (written by the 2cd author) is a discussion of investment strategies (some are common sense) that are interesting and still useful, though less of an interest to me personally. All in all a worthwhile work.	2002-04-21
US	47768995	R34CWQFWL93VFR	0465043585	286156395	The Coming Internet Depression Why The High-tech Boom Will Go Bust, Why The Crash Will Be Worse Than You Think, And How To Prosper Afterwards	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Has W Become Hoover 2	Should the title be changed to \\"The Currant Internet Depression'? It seems likely. Mandel highlights the obvious parallels between the twenties and the nineties, and explains in detail why he expects why he the currant economic protections to ineffective and dealing with the possible collapse of the New Economy. His main thesis is that the currant economists, business leaders and government officials will be as unprepared for the tech collapse as the people of Hoover's time were for the stock crash, and for much the same reasons. Mandel believes the `New Economy' is more important even than New Economy proponents suggest, and that it's collapse will lead a general collapse by a few years. He suggests that it represents an economic shift of the magnitude that took place in the twenties with the emergence of personal credit and the spread of new technologies of the time. He does not claim, as his overconfident knee jerk critics will expect, that the collapse will happen the same way as the Great Depression. Indeed, this is the opposite of his thesis; although he does point out that the conservative economists of the twenties were just as certain that there could never again be a collapse. One ideologue I mentioned the work to dismissed it out of hand because of the SEC and the FDIC, it's this sort of overconfidence that lead to the last collapse and the inability to cope with it when it did occur. Indeed, given Congresses willingness to allow the protections installed in the thirties to lapse (allowing consolidation and cross pollination in the financial/insurance world) perhaps it WILL happen just the way that it did, especially if the knee jerk anti-government lassie fare radicals actually get their way.  If anything, Mandel is to optimistic, especially when he suggests that Venture Capitalists are a hardy forward-looking bunch. Mandel's scenario, with tech layoffs leading to a crisis of consumer confidence and subsequent personal bankruptcies and an unwillingness on the part of VC's to indulge in risky spending to jump start the tech sector seems compelling, and not simply because it seems to be happening now. Is the `recession' really a `depression' and will it last as long as Mandel suggests? You can decide for your self, but you ought to read the book, if for no other reason than to understand the underlying weakness of a risk driven economy.	2002-04-20
US	47768995	R2V3KGOF3OOGOQ	0812927168	70245735	The Microsoft File : The Secret Case Against Bill Gates	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Try Another Anti-Gates Work First	With its `The Secret Case Against Bill Gates' subtitle and its early invocation of the obvious Rockefeller parallel this little book seems at first glance to be dynamite. Unfortunately it is marred by exceptionally poor writing. Choppy, confusing and disorganized, the author's continual shifting between places and times is disconcerting to the point of madness. Characters are introduced seemingly at random, often without a clear explanation of the relationship to the story or anything else. Facts are tossed about without any connection to anything, and numerous stories are abandoned without an explanation of the outcome.  One moment we are amidst debate before Judge Sporkin over alleged monopolistic practices of Big Bill and the next the Judge is gone, his decision rendered off camera, as if he were an unimportant character in a Shakespearean tragedy. One moment Lotus and Novell are at going full tilt against Microsoft the next they are defeated and out of the picture, with no real explanation of why. By the end, I simply did not care who the new characters were; I just wanted it to be over. More distracting is the author's affection for putting thoughts into the character's heads as if they were fictional. I highly doubt that Gates revealed his secret thoughts to Rohm. Indeed, her tendency for salacious tattle tailing is as annoying as it is distracting. I have no interest in the tawdry details of the sex lives of Microsoft execs; tell me about their business practices. Of course, there is a lot of interesting information here, if one can pierce the complex veil of confusion, it is clear that Microsoft's much ballyhooed monopolistic practices are far more destructive and pervasive than is generally believed. Indeed, one could use the book as a source for writing a detailed indictment of Gates and Co, assuming one had other sources. In fact, the book reads more like a first draft than a finished work, and not simply because of the abrupt ending,	2002-04-20
US	47768995	R2HB1IL0GH351L	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	0	N	N	King Is A Master!	IT is not a scary book, but then, Steven King does not write scary books. He does however, write entertaining books, and this one is a page-turner. King really is a master storyteller, and can make a story that seems silly or uninteresting into something quite intriguing. I was not exactly engaged at the idea of a killer clown, but picked the book up because there is really very little good horror out there and because of the strengths of King's other works. The book has a Lovecraftian feel, both because of the pervasive nature of the madness that afflicts the town and it's obvious origin `somewhere else'. I am also no fan of `cute kids' in movies or books, but King draws them so faithfully and gives enough dimension to make them both admirable and believable. King switches back and forth between the kid story (in the fifties) and the story of the grown ups (in the eighties). The device is very useful because each time he switches you are dying to know what is about to happen and wishing that he wouldn't switch each time he does it. This makes the book quite addictive. The story is also very surprising. My favorite bits were the tales of yesteryear that Mike discovers when researching the history of IT, the long history of terror and discovery of it by a main character are part and parcel of the Lovecraftian style. All in all, highly recommended.	2002-04-20
US	47768995	R1T8TCSWF8AKD5	080704315X	839221533	Money and Politics (New Democracy Forum)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Money In Politics? The Solution Is Here	An excellent little pamphlet summarizing a number of interesting solutions to our current highly flawed campaign system. Not only do Fine, Miller and Donnelly offer a compelling solution that has already proven effective at the state level, they also allow their critics to rebut their arguments in the book, this is rare indeed, and welcome. Rarely do you see a volume so evenly discuss and represent contrary and conflicting viewpoints so well. It is certainly food for thought, and will provide even those opposed to the Fine/Miller/Donnelly solution with interesting reading. Highly recommended for anyone with an interest in contemporary politics, but especially those who feel that money has distorted or destroyed the American system. Highly recommended.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	RWF8CQKW4ARHN	0872863573	885276502	History as Mystery	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Unraveling The Mystery	Well written and highly readable, this book is nothing more than a superb attack on the prevailing orthodoxy that passes for history today. Parenti pulls no punches and is not afraid to be politically incorrect. His savage attack on the conservative historians, their biases and their sacred cows will raise the eyebrows and the blood pressure of those who want their past prepackaged like junk food, made to look good, taste good and slowly poison the society it misrepresents. It will terrify those who believe that are ancestors were greater and wiser than we are. This is a book that should be read by every intellectual, regardless of bias. It will astound as well as entertain, and for those of a conservative bent, it will probably appall. The best sections deal with the excesses of the Church as a destructive and distorting agent in history, Viva La Revolution!	2002-03-25
US	47768995	RNLGLY2S244TP	045107310X	498478857	Miami and the Siege of Chicago	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Good For Historians Of The Period	This book is a true curio of the times, of interest mostly to historians of the period. Mailer fails to describe the details of what went on at the conventions, although he does give the reader `a feel' for events, and some of the snapshots he provides are good, especially those of the violence and terror of Chicago. In the end, the reader will be disappointed, both because of the failure to completely describe what is happening and because of the writer's verbose style and intrusive narrative devices. The writing style definitely is distracting and confusing, Mailers tendency to use bizarre metaphors and long wordy descriptions provides confusion rather than clarity. Recommended only as a companion piece to books like `The Making Of The President 1968'by White and McGinnnis' `Selling Of The President 1968'.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	RHJUFGQHP8WTB	0684874385	924963546	Attorney for the Damned: A Lawyer's Life with the Criminally Insane	Books	1	4	14	N	N	A Terrible Book From A Dispicable Author	I found this deeply disturbing but not very interesting. Disturbing because the author seemed proud of his role as an advocate for the most dangerous and destructive members in our society. Proud that he used technicalities, character assassination and outright falsehoods to free people who he himself knew to be dangerous. I was disinterested because the book is not a serious work about the work of an attorney for the mentally deranged but a chatty verbose blow by blow of certain trails and hearings the author participated in. The crimes of the defendants and the suffering of the victims are given very little space, while the courtroom `dramatics' and his actions to aid the deranged are highlighted. Most disappointing, he admits to changing details of the stories to suit `dramatic effect'' given this, what is the point?	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R14PAY787WSAOG	1887208046	965977626	When Corporations Rule the World	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A Must Read For Libertarians And Other Free Market Zealots	Probably the best book I've read in a year. A searing indictment of the status quo and it's defenders. Korten sets his sights on the very real problems in our society and provides a devastating, insightful and well thought out critic of the myths that rule our society. Explodes the politically correct myths of the corporate liberals who worship free trade and see the market as the answer to every problem. Clearly states the central problem of the corporate capitalist state, the fact that the market is considered sacred and more important than the people themselves.  Shows how the very consumerism that the 'one worlders' espouse is causing the crime and alienation that run rampant in our society today. Denies the assumptions of the high priests of corporate liberalism, and uses their own Holy Books (like Adam Smith) against them. Uses concrete examples to suggest that the big corporations and there defenders will gladly pollute the environment, squander natural resources and even kill people who get in their way. One need not agree with Korten's solutions to recognize the accuracy of his critic. Highly recommended for critics of the status quo of all political stripes, but especially for those who believe the lie that the market can be or is a solution. Read It	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R2T1K0OK1R3BIQ	1893554147	615556527	The World According to Gore	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Good, But Too Partisan	Truth to tell, this book suffers a bit due to the author's partisan bias. It is possible to attack Gore without tarring him with the standard `Big Money Liberal' label that Republicans imagine is so devastating. Still, the book is definitely worth a look, especially by those who may think highly of the former Vice President. When the author is on target, especially when making The VP out to be a hypocrite and a flip flopper, she is devastating. These are the best reasons to distrust the man. Whether or not you agree with Gore's stated policies, the fact that he seems to change to suit the whims of fickle popular opinion should give you pause. I was disappointed that Gore's ties to big business were downplayed, but it's to be expected from a Republican critic. The book is very readable and quite well written. If Al Gore bubbles back up in 2004 I expect this book will bubble up as well, and it should.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R3CE9G6KQXWL13	0812829697	662353695	Up From Liberalism	Books	5	19	30	N	N	Top Book From The Premier Conservative Anti-Intellectual	It's probably Buckley that transformed the word `Liberal' from a misused label to an epithet. Needless to say, he well understands his own misuse of the word, which he justifies, rightly, on the basis of the fact that everyone misuses it. If everyone assumes a word means something, does the word not in fact come to mean that, no matter what linguists insist? In any case, as pleasant and amusing as this book is, it will win no converts, nor is it meant to. It is not a conservative manifesto that reaches out even to the undecided and implores them to join the conservative cause. It is not even a statement of purpose in the style Barry Goldwater's `Conscience Of A Conservative'. Rather, it is mind candy for the right. Buckley is first and foremost a wordsmith, a writer who says what he means and says it well. He is not an intellectual who understands and appreciates the arguments and viewpoints of his ideological foes; he is a relentless eloquent partisan. His intent is to present his own side, in as a biased a way as possible, and make fools of his foes by exposing the weakness of their arguments and ignoring the strengths. At this, he is a master. He is also, of course, a master writer, whether you agree with Buckley or not you will appreciate his wit, his candor and his style. Indeed, even when he has nothing to say he says it so well that it is enjoyable to read.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R2TCL4V7GV0NYM	0671791834	864698083	The Man Who Would be President: Dan Quayle	Books	4	27	45	N	N	Is He Dumber Than W? You Decide	Did George Bush pick a dingbat for his vice President? You bet. Were the <BR>American people troubled by the notion that the dingbat could become <BR>President one day? You bet. Did two conservative journalists write an easy <BR>to read puff piece on the dingbat? You bet. Does it fail to hide the fact <BR>that the dingbat is an intellectual lightweight and basically a spoiled son <BR>of a wealthy family? You Bet. It's a good read though.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R2JIYWSXEQKQKW	1878825003	831025819	The Decline and Fall of the American Empire (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	62	67	N	N	A Superb Polemic	Gore Vidal has the power to drive conservatives insane, I can't say why, but the mere mention of his name seems to turn them into screaming maniacs, that alone would make this book worth owning. In addition to its value as a heart attack inducer, it is also easy reading, witty and well written. I especially enjoyed his vicious attack on the Christian Church (which he refers to as the cult of the `Sky God'). He is also right on target with his assessment of the pervasive dangerous of corporate power. This slim volume is not a scholarly tome by any means, but Vidal's strength is in the way that he says things, not in the way that he backs up his assessment. Less a stunning indictment than a readable, witty summing up of the Vidal take on several important topics. A superb little pamphlet.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R2CWIPZBZZ07KV	0671020749	890233300	The A to Z Encyclopedia of Serial Killers (Pocket Books True Crime)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent, As Usual	Schechter is the author of numerous excellent true crime books, all of which are available at amazon.com. This book is a little different from most of his other works, but it is of equally high caliber. In short easily digestible bits, Scheckter gives a huge amount of information on a wide variety of serial killers, as well as the methods used to catch them and the details of their psychosis. It's an excellent starter for those interested in the most horrifying field of the true crime genre. It is also a handy companion book and quick reference for those with some breadth of knowledge on the subject. Once started, it is hard to put down. Includes an excellent recommendation section for other true crime books of note. Highly recommended.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R1UTDHTCLR0E0X	0394570596	868125700	See How They Run: Electing the President in an Age of Mediaocracy	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Excellent Snapshots From An Accidental Player	Paul Taylor is the reporter who used the `A word' to derail Gary Hart's floundering campaign in 1988. It's rare that a reporter has as much influence over the nomination process, and the book provides a unique insight into the campaign from someone who, however briefly, had a very real effect on the election. At first it might seem that Taylor's emphasis on his own actions smack of delusions of grandeur, but he is really out to examine the roll of the press in a campaign, and only emphasizes his role early on because of his importance in bringing down Hart. The book is not a nuts and bolts exploration of the trench warfare of the election in the tradition of Witcover and Germond, but rather a serious of snapshots of important moments in the campaign, well detailed and critically examined. As such it is not the best source for a detailed examination of the whole campaign but more a superb companion piece for such books. It also is an excellent summery for those who want a more general overview of the campaign. Highly recommended.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R92MB0090Q7LR	0385425112	861737525	Scandal	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Heed The Word Of A Republican Crybaby	Garment's main thesis is that political corruption is no big deal and the people that are to be blamed for it are the journalists who expose it. If only those pesky watchdogs would leave our leaders alone, no one need ever know about our `betters' bad behavior! Not a surprising position considering her husband was one of Nixon's lawyers. Needless to say, in spite of her condemnation of the solicitousness of the press she makes a point of bringing up and emphasizing scandals by democratic administrations and politicians while poo pooing those of her own party. Not surprising given that her main goal is to defend the famously sinful Reagan White House. She is particularly dismissive of famously corrupt Republicans like Harding, Blaine and Grant. Not exactly a balanced, thoughtful analysis. One is left wondering what she would say about the scandals of the Clinton administration, I suspect she would sing a different tune.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R1JPLMFBOWEI7R	0094741700	199642651	In Hitler's Shadow : An Israeli's Journey Inside Germany's Neo-Nazi Movement (History and Politics)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Disappointing For Serious Readers	This is not a serious expose of the Neo-Nazi movement in Germany, it's simply a play by play of Savoray's adventures within the movement, and it doesn't even do that very well.<BR>It's easy reading, I'll give it that, in fact it reads like a dime store spy novel. Nothing wrong with that, I suppose, and maybe it's even based on real events, although the word for word exchanges stretch credibility pretty far. Those looking for mind candy should consider it, but those looking to learn about the actions and motivations of Neo Nazi's should look elsewhere.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	R1R9XKBAWH0W71	0743234758	454578864	The Commanders	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Typical Woodward	Woodward's books are all the same. They are detailed, well researched and incredibly readable. Each one a treat. The most amusing aspect of them, (considering that he is co-author of the book that brought down Nixon) is the reverence with which he treats the establishment figures. Doubtless this is because they are his sources. If one keeps this bias in mind and reads between the lines a bit, you can generally get a good idea of who's who and what's what. This particular book is an examination of the military preparation and political decision making that led up to the Attack on Panama and The Gulf War. The insight into the military command structure and the perspectives of the men in the chain of command is excellent. It could also be viewed as a love letter to Colin Powell, doubtless it helped to establish the Generals reputation as a `great man'. Riveting and gripping, I recommend the book highly.	2002-03-25
US	47768995	ROS719D2PVHW3	0684837110	145035207	Going Negative	Books	1	2	21	N	N	If You Can't Say ANything Nice....	Dry, poorly organized &amp; repetitive, Going Negative is a big disappointment. Many of the authors contentions have been disproved by time, for example the authors suggest that certain issues belong to certain parties and cannot be co-opted by the other side, if this were true, how does one explain Clinton and W? The flaws in there research are fairly obvious, and it's obvious that the research was driven by the bias of the researchers. One telling line about the relative importance of issues talks about how Republicans are `concerned' about crime while Democrats `fear' losing civil rights. A surprisingly revealing use of loaded language. These establishment types have found, surprisingly, that we would be better off if we did what the parties told us to. In recommending the return of the smoke filled room, they ignore the real problems the country faces and the obvious solution. Indeed, the real why to improve the political process is the opposite of what the authors suggest, open up the system, allow the people more choices, not fewer.	2001-08-15
US	47768995	R1IN1URTRW1ZDX	0345424875	409184051	No Island of Sanity: Paula Jones v. Bill Clinton: The Supreme Court on Trial (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	7	21	N	N	Vincent Bugliosi Is Not Sane	This book starts out giving Bugliosi's rather skewed view of the world, in which the problems of our society can evidently be traced to the fact that naughty girls where short skirts. Then he promptly proves how smart he is by telling us how right he was in his assessment of the OJ Simpson case. Given that he is obviously an unbiased source, how can one doubt? Of course, one might wonder what this has to do with the Supreme Courts decision in the Paula Jones case, and the answer is, of course, absolutely nothing. Bugliosi, truth be told, has no interest in the issue at hand, he is just excited about tooting his own horn and making himself seem important. Really, his whole argument in the Clinton matter is simply this, he is brilliant and everyone else is an idiot and we should feel blessed that he deigned to make any argument beyond this at all, given that he so much smarter than everyone else.  I did not pick up this book expecting an unbiased discussion of the issues surrounding the Supreme Court's decision to let the Paula Jones case move forward, but I did expect it to be reasonable. It certainly is not. Bugliosi's argument (in as much as it exists at all beyond the `I'm so smart' posturing) despite his denials is; The President Is Above The Law, no more and no less. He never seems to acknowledge that even if the Presidency is as important as he asserts (and it certainly is not clear that it need be) it does not automatically follow that the President himself is irreplaceable. What would have happened if Clinton had handed the reigns of government to Gore (who after all, was duly elected along with Bubba) to concentrate on the Paula Jones case? Would the World have been turned on its head? It seems unlikely, considering the similarities of their outlook. Worse than the weakness of his arguments, of course, is his colossal arrogance, evidently all the justices of the Supreme Court are idiots, as is anyone else who disagrees with his assessment of the issues. Suchdismissive arrogance makes the book insulting and frankly unreadable. Better he just published a book that said simply, I AM RIGHT and YOU ARE AN IDIOT, it would be more honest, and frankly more interesting.	2001-03-15
US	47768995	R1LMOG7EKAMDGJ	0345434013	111890392	It's the Stupidity, Stupid: Why (Some) People Hate Clinton and Why the Rest of Us Have to Watch (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Slight, But Funny	A fairly funny commentary on the state of politics at the end of the Clinton era. Shearer attacks pretty much everyone, but no doubt Republican partisans will be offended anyway, they seem to get upset about any criticism of their leaders, no matter how tepid or humorous. Generally, this book will not make you laugh out loud, and you will not feel compelled to treasure it always, but it is a fun, easy read and provides plenty of amusing insights and comic asides. Of course, you might want to keep on your bookshelf just to make your Republican friends go beat red on the sight of it.	2001-03-14
US	47768995	RYN8DW0I9KRCV	0060393408	962636193	The Case Against Hillary Clinton	Books	1	30	55	N	N	Should Be Filed Under Fiction	I'm all for attacking the Clintons, and I frankly expected this book to be a vicious partisan hatchet job when I picked it up. What I didn't expect was that it would be completely without merit and utterly pointless. Noonan is not concerned with the ideology that Mrs. Clinton espouses nor with what she has actually done. She simply uses the book to promote her own absurd beliefs (i.e. TV causes violence and dirty sex) and to assign Mrs. Clinton an agenda and a set of bad actions based on nothing more than her imagination. From the very beginning Noonan uses imagined events (like Mrs. Clinton's victory speech in the first chapter) and projects thoughts into The First Lady's head, much like a fiction writer would. Frankly, that is all this book is, a poorly written work of fiction. Frankly no fiction writer worth a damn would end a chapter with the phrase `and then I woke up'; it would be insulting to the reader, an unacceptable, distracting and pointless device. In a nonfiction book it is completely inexcusable. I suppose that the most devoted enemies of the Clintons might enjoy this groundless attack on The First Lady, but any normal person, even those who despise the Clintons as I do, will be insulted. Indeed, the idea of Noonan, herself the author of the most famous political lie of our time (George Bush's `No new taxes' pledge) would attack anyone's integrity is absurd on its face. The worst thing about this book is that it might be mistaken by some as a serious book on the subject, rather than the flight of fancy that it is.	2001-03-06
US	47768995	R3R3JEXC6T1URO	0684822849	404227740	GOING NEGATIVE: How Political Ads Shrink and Polarize the Electorate	Books	1	3	10	N	N	Poorly Thought Out AND Out Of Date	Dry, poorly organized &amp; repetitive, Going Negative is a big disappointment. Many of the authors contentions have been disproved by time, for example the authors suggest that certain issues belong to certain parties and cannot be co-opted by the other side, if this were true, how does one explain Clinton and W? The flaws in the research are fairly obvious, and it's obvious that the research was driven by the bias of the researchers. One telling line about the relative importance of issues talks about how Republicans are `concerned' about crime while Democrats `fear' losing civil rights. A surprisingly revealing use of loaded language. These establishment types have found, surprisingly, that we would be better off if we did what the parties told us to. In recommending the return of the smoke filled room, they ignore the real problems the country faces and the obvious solution. Indeed, the real way to improve the political process is the opposite of what the authors suggest, open up the system, allow the people more choices, not fewer.	2001-03-02
US	47768995	R3687SWOEGQFHY	1563053187	209261914	Bushisms/President George Herbert Walker Bush in His Own Words	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Watch Out For The Fuzzy Ones!	Is intelligence learned or inherited? It's a question that has puzzled scientists and philosophers since the beginning of time. On the one hand, you can argue that this book proves the latter conviction, since it's obvious that Papa Bush is as grammatically challenged as baby Bush, but on the other hand, who taught Baby to speak? Seriously though, this book is hilarious, a welcome companion piece to more recent versions attacking the more recent Bush. I've owned it since it came out and it still makes me laugh. If you can find it, buy it.	2001-02-27
US	47768995	R2MSZGVLR5V7JO	1583220496	977805288	Howard Zinn on War	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A Superb Pacifist Pamphlet.	I am a great admirer of Zinn's brand of radical politics as well as his revisionist history. Here he collects a series of his anti-War essays into one slim but excellent volume. Never have I seen the case for pacifism made so well, recommended to readers of all political stripes, even if you disagree with Zinn's notions you'll find the book insightful and easy to read. I especially enjoyed the WW 2 parts, since this is typically viewed as a 'good war'.<br />Zinn is despised by traditional historians, especially conservative ones, mostly for daring to hold unorthodox views, as a rule such talk seems ill founded. However he is also criticized for the sloppiness of his scholarship, and I was disturbed to find an example of that here, Zinn says:<br />\\"Bombing Ethiopia in 1935, Mussolini's son-in-law Count Ciano described the explosions as an aesthetic thrill, having the beauty of a flower unfolding.\\"<br />The quote that Zinn refers to is from Vittorio Mussolini, Mussolini's SON (who wrote a book called Flying Over Ethiopian Mountain Ranges) and not Ciano, here is the actual quote:<br />\\"one group of horsemen gave me the impression of a budding rose unfolding as the bomb fell in their midst and blew up. It was exceptionally good fun\\"<br />In a sense, this does not detract from Zinn analysis, since he was commenting on something that was actually said, and making a point about how fascist regimes glorify war. The point is still valid, even if Zinn has attributed the quote to the wrong Mussolini relative. It is disturbing in that it displays certain sloppiness with the facts and a relative unfamiliarity with prominent figures of the period.	2001-02-26
US	47768995	R1P5EGJMB0JOG8	1583220356	224749116	The WTO: Five Years of Reasons to Resist Corporate Globalization (Open Media Series)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Buy And Learn	This brief, well thought out and detailed criticism of the WTO is very readable. Points out that the WTO, an unelected irresponsible body has been placed above the world's governments and given the power to nullify the laws enacted by those governments. Shows how the WTO has allowed corporations to circumvent the limitations placed upon them by government. Provides specific examples of how the WTO is systematically undermining responsible market practices. Should be read critically by those on the left and the right. If we continue on this road, we will despoil our environment, destroy representative government and enslave our people. The question here is not free trade verses no trade, as the apologists for the corporate state would have us believe, but rather who will benefit from our trade policies. The WTO is a tool of the biggest multinationals, and represents their interests alone, over everyone else. Buy it.	2001-01-23
US	47768995	R3O9NNVRLOJ3X0	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	5	121	184	N	N	Want To Upset Your Conservative Friends?	Then buy this book. Franken provides a vicious humorous attack on that most famous of conservative radio pundits, with a definite leftist slant. The book does not provide a laugh on every page, but the satire is definitely biting. The most fun you'll have with it is telling all your conservative friends you have read it, nothing irritates them more! I have to admit, I can't see why, they seem to regard it as some sort of didactic statement of Liberal principles, or a serious attack on Limbaugh's credibility, but really it is neither (although Franken does reveal some unsurprising hypocrisy about ole Rush). It is simply a book of political humor, and a funny one. I give it an extra star for driving Republicans crazy. And remember, the eighties were the Al Franken decade.	2001-01-23
US	47768995	R11DO4BLFLY70T	0446354546	680275256	Duke: The Inside Story of a Political Phenomenon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent In Spite Of It�s Bias	At first I thought this was going to be just a disappointing puff piece about Mike Dukakis, and it is incredibly pro-Dukakis. Accepting that, it also includes an excellent blow by blow of the election up to the conventions. Those interested in elections (especially 88) and how they are run should read it, regardless of what they though of `The Duke'. The coverage of the Democratic side (Biden, Jackson, Gephardt, Hart, Simon ect) is especially good. The unflattering portrait of Al Gore will be of interest to the former VPs friends and foes alike. B+	2001-01-13
US	47768995	R28CGWBDKS2U92	0786703199	867791119	Compulsion	Books	2	10	14	N	N	This Disappointing Book Was Highly Recommended�.	A gripping novel based on the famous Leopold-Loeb murder case, very readable, but marred by the heavy hand of the author. Levin uses fifties pop psychology to excuse the crime (mostly mouthed by the character of Willie Weiss, who appears to be both a collage friend of the murderers and a psychology prodigy, years ahead of his time!) The victim and his family barely appear at all, except as excuses for the action. It's quite evident that Levin thought very highly of Leopold and Loeb. They are lovingly drawn, and their murder made to seem trivial and unimportant. Instead, Levin makes the murderers out to be hapless, sympathetic victims. Indeed, the whole book is an anti-death penalty rant, with Clarence Darrow made into a god, and Leopold and Loeb lessor godlings. Perhaps even more disturbing is his depiction of homosexuality as mental disease and/or a symptom of a childish lack of development, which can be cured, through murder. Indeed, after the crime, Judd (the murderer that Levin particularly admires)`becomes a man' and begins to lose his homosexuality. This puerile nonsense is despicable. Although crime fiction fans may be pleased (especially those who admire murderers) those interested in the case should stick to the true crime accounts and skip the psychobabble nonsense. Also includes tiresome romance that detracts from the story<br />PS The depiction of the women as breathless nincompoops is insulting.	2001-01-13
US	47768995	RNQE4S9L00B7	0312130570	361506270	Ed Gein -- Psycho!	Books	2	2	3	N	N	OK, But Serious Students Should Look Elsewhere	It's an easy read, I'll give it that, I read it in three hours. This is no small compliment, given that some books are so dull they can't be read at all. That being said, this is not the best book on Gein. The author uses several devices that are intrusive and inappropriate. For one he randomly inserts events into the text, so that in the middle of a description of Gein's childhood he sticks in a section from his confession, with little or no warning, needless to say, it's disconcerting. Worse, he frequently inserts words into the characters months or thoughts into their heads that are obviously just suppositions. Still worse, the facts as stated do not match up to other accounts I have read, and given the nature of this book, I'm inclined to think the other sources are more accurate. Further, the whole last third of the book is just a waste of time. I do not need to know the plot to every movie that was based on the Gein murders and I don't care what an unsuccessful rock singer has to say on the subject. I suspect this book was written to appeal to teenagers, and it will do that well, but serious students should look elsewhere, try Deviant by Harold Schechter. It's fairly clear that the book is written to be salacious. Indeed, it resembles nothing so much as the pulp magazines that Gein himself was so fond of. Perhaps the author did this intentionally to be ironic, but I doubt it.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R1QN6UWL86IX4M	006019393X	145081682	If the Gods Had Meant Us to Vote They Would Have Given Us Candidates	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Still Brilliant, Still Important	Here you find a fiery populist manifesto. Well thought out and excellently written, this book will leave you craving more. Hightowner not only attacks the dingbats who were the 2000 candidates but also the system that produced them. His witty indictment of the corporate state will make this book relevant long after the partisan feelings of the election have cooled. Don't be fooled, Hightower is no socialist, he's a patriotic populist leftist. He believes in the free enterprise system, he just thinks that big government and big business are subverting it. He believes in American style democracy, he just thinks that corporate power and the two parties have perverted the process. In spite of his prescient analysis, he is no pessimist, Hightower believes the people can take back the country. Indeed, he believes they are doing it already, he just wants to get you to join in. Absolutely brilliant, one of the best books I've read all year. Buy it; read it, live it.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R1X51AIQBWIN4O	0941138119	785338574	Men Are Not Cost-Effective : Male Crime in America	Books	1	22	46	N	N	Lowest Common Denominator	90% of the book is simply reprinting crime  stories from news sources while pointing out that the perpetrators are all MEN! Such innocuous vapidity would scarcely rate notice except for the  author's willingness to condemn all men because of their gender. I originally picked up the book because I though it might be evidence that the feminist movement was transforming into a hate movement, but the author is obviously just an ignorant marginal crank, and does not even represent the most radical feminists. It is worth reading for a laugh, but those with limited free time should concern themselves with only the very beginning and the conclusion, the bulk of the book is just regurgitation of familiar news events without any analysis at all. This is not a book that presents a thoughtful insight based upon a careful considered study of societies ills, rather it is simply a vast compendium of facts collected to support a pre-determined hypothesis; that all men are by nature wicked. Her `solution'? Tax all men as punishment for their natural wickedness. A conservative pundit who pointed out that blacks commit more than their share of crimes and suggested that they be singled out for `special treatment' would be roundly condemned by all as an obvious racist. If anyone had noticed this book, I suspect the author would have received similar treatment.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R2VPNFFDXQJ3HI	006098709X	947326254	Think a Second Time	Books	3	10	74	N	N	Look Into The Mind Of A Zealot	I'm not sure if I should recommend this book or condemn it, hence three stars. It is very readable, if a bit repetitive.  I definitely got tired of the endless babbling about God in the last third of the book or so. He does make some good points, especially when he's trying to appear tolerant; I was also amused by his use of the straw man device. How easy it is to refute an argument designed to be refuted! I doubt even Praeger believes he has accurately depicted the thinking of his ideological foes. The book is an excellent window into the mind of the self-righteous hater. I don't recommend that you buy it in order to learn how you should think, but rather to understand the way the Pragers of the world think. <br />Dennis Prager bases his entire philosophy on the notion that people are evil by nature, and thus must be controlled. He seems to imagine this view is novel, but in fact it is simply the same tired religious rhetoric that has undergirded hate movements throughout time. Dare I say it? I don't think Dennis thought the first time. He has simply accepted the ideology of the right lock stock and barrel. Prager is nothing more than an intolerant right wing moralist. Indeed, if we assume that ethical monotheism is a good idea (a dubious notion at best) then he is a fanatic by his own definition. His reading of history is biased; his conclusions are colored by his assumptions. I suppose it's easy to get a high opinion of yourself when you're a talk show host, but in the real world you can't just hang up on those who refute your arguments.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R3MGD9H4XGIH2	1559722770	754843666	The Dysfunctional President: Inside the Mind of Bill Clinton	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Inside The Mind Of Bill Clinton? Perhaps	As a rule, I am scornful of books that attempt to psychoanalyze public figures from afar; indeed, I am skeptical about psychology in general. In this case, the author himself points out that his analysis should only be taken so seriously considering he has never seen the `patient'. I am also dubious about the notion of `syndromes' in general. Certainly Bill is a liar and a vacillator who denies personal responsibility, but are these traits really caused by the fact that his father was an alcoholic? So I came to the book a skeptic. That being said, I found the book very compelling. The most amazing thing about it is it seems to predict the Lewinsky scandal, and Clinton's reaction to it. Those that loath Bill Clinton will certainly enjoy it, and find it very convincing. Those that love him will dismiss it out of hand. Those who are in between will be very disturbed.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R3QO2YOY2Q5M71	1859842844	676518692	No One Left To Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Brilliant And Vicious, I Wish I Had Written It	For those who wonder what Bill Clinton's legacy will be, search no further. Hitchens' slashing attack on the President's phony leftism and moral depravity will be the final word on Bubba. Hitchens is no right wing sorehead, he's a bitter disaffected leftist, and his assault is all the more vicious because of it. The book is a page-turner, a short, fast read, you won't be able to put it down. Hitchens' cutting wit and careful attention to detail are addictive. Right wingers may be offended by Hitchens' notion that the Government is not the fountain of all evil, but they will be pleased to find he thinks Clinton is. Highly recommended.	2000-12-19
US	47768995	R258EPI7MTU24D	0812931394	319147812	First Son: George W. Bush and the Bush Family Dynasty	Books	3	18	31	N	N	Unbiased?	Well written and very readable, this was the first book I read on `W', and it convinced me not to vote for him, despite the fact that First Son is basically a puff piece.  Manutaglio soft peddles all the really questionable things in `W's' life, from his failure as an oilman to his shabby record as Governor. Unbiased, it is not. Still, the author could not hide the fact that the subject was basically a spoiled vapid ignoramus. Any critical reader will be disgusted by the easy life of `W', and arrogant presumption of his family, who obviously feel they are entitled to lead.	2000-12-05
US	47768995	R3E4HSSOB9WLB5	0201328003	429148641	Hitler's Thirty Days to Power: January 1933	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Truth About Hitler's Rise	An excellent explanation of how Hitler came to power in Germany. The best treatment of the last days before his appointment to chancellor that I have ever read. Puts the blame squarely where it belongs, on the shoulders of Hindenburg, Papen and Schleicher. Papen is treated with particular harshness. Also shows how petty personal disagreements can doom a nation. a stupendous book. A must read for anyone who thinks Hitler came to power democratically.	2000-11-30
US	47768995	RA5WRJ3FYZXZJ	0743214781	636848454	Is Our Children Learning?: The Case Against George W. Bush	Books	3	8	20	N	N	Good, But Partisan	This book is nothing more than a savage attack on George Bush, and man, does he deserve it. More of a coffee table book than a compelling insightful examination of the record, this book will amuse you and your friends for months, if not years. If W wins, I suspect this book will sell and sell, and it should. The only problem with this book is the partisan touting of Gore, it's one thing to point out the missteps of one side and ignore those of your side (the book is about W, after all) it's another to actively tout Gore throughout the book. Democratic partisans will love this book, but thoughtful independents will doubtless find it overly biased.	2000-11-17
US	47768995	R1MK76R646HPW	1859848036	76438475	Al Gore: A User's Manual	Books	5	17	25	N	N	A Muckrakers Dream	This book reveals Al Gore's pervasive dishonesty and rampant hypocrisy.  Undermines his phony environmentalism by exposing his close ties with Occidental Petroleum and other polluters. Demolishes his credibility on civil liberties by recalling his actions on behalf of Tipper's PMRC. Attacks his credibility as a `War Hero' by revealing how he used his connections to keep out of danger. Shows his flip-flops even on guns and the choice issue. Clearly establishes Gore as a man who pretends to be everything to everyone while acting as toady for the corporate state.  No one could support Gore for dogcatcher after reading this book. It will not be outdated by the election, however, since it serves as an example of the failure of the Democratic Party. Why are there now two big business parties? Because of Democrats like Al Gore. BUY IT.	2000-11-16
US	47768995	R1ZUE6D3UER3ZX	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One Of The Greats	Probably the best vampire book ever written, including the original Dracula, Interview is mesmerizing. Treating the undead as angst ridden homosexuals was brilliant. Surprising, thoughtful and amusing, this is a book that I would recommend to anyone; it's way up near the top in the horror genre.	2000-11-07
US	47768995	RE3RYYZ7U0XHF	0446359203	629572192	Carrion Comfort	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Horror Is Hard To Find	This book is mostly excellent, a fun twist on the vampire myth. The evil `creatures' are quite believable, quite interesting and well drawn. Indeed, the villains are far more interesting than the heroes, and their little internal battles are far more absorbing than the hero's clumsy plots. It's a fast read, despite its huge size, although you may be annoyed by the last third. The ending is awful, relying as it does on characters being stupid, but then nothing is perfect, eh? I recommend it to horror fans.	2000-11-07
US	47768995	R2F9HRQAYYPOWJ	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Vicious and Inspiring	Rarely has so deserving a target received so thorough a thrashing. No open-minded person could possibly vote for Baby Bush after reading this book. Magnificently detailed, well written and entertaining, this brief broadside is a page turning masterpiece. You won't be able to put it down. Harsh, thoughtful and enlightening, every political biography should read like this. Live the revolution.	2000-11-03
US	47768995	RW441XZZL74S4	0671737775	415897523	Iceberg (Dirk Pitt, No. 3)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Unintentionally Funny As Hell	This book was pretty darn funny. When I described what it to a friend over dinner we couldn't stop laughing. The best part is when Dirk Pitt (I love that name, it sounds like a name for a parody spy like Maxwell Smart) is lost and makes his own compass, a laugh riot! Utterly ridiculous and without any social value at all, but if you need a good laugh.....	2000-11-02
US	47768995	RC0C0IC01YLY4	0380795191	849396350	The Buying of the President 2000	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Every American Should Read This Book	Stop reading and just push the Buy It Button. Excellently written and carefully researched. This book is a damning indictment of the political process itself, as well as the two parties and all of their representatives. It explains in detail who owns our `elected officials' and why are democracy is failing. No one is spared. After reading it you will be unable to vote for the tweedle dee/tweedle dumb hacks that the political establishment puts forth every election cycle. This book will never be out dated. Even after the election it will serve as an example for the future. It reveals the reasons laws are specifically written to aid special interests (see especially the Bradley section). I disagree strongly with Mr. Cohn's complaint about objectivity. How can one feign objectivity about the mass corruption that is destroying our society? Read it, live it! Get out of the two party rut; this book explains why you must. I also recommend the 1996 version.	2000-10-27
US	47768995	R3Q31VXR8FNFGE	067172519X	171368854	RAISE THE TITANIC (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	1	0	8	N	N	Watch Friends Instead	Horrible! Trite, predictable and filled with cardboard cut outs disguised as characters. Not quite as interesting as a sit-com. I couldn't finish it.	2000-10-25
