US	47808906	R2YY1BW1UYWKC6	0399149341	786063504	Sphere of Influence	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Rebel FBI Agent	SPHERE OF INFLUENCE By Kyle Mills<br />I do not have time to write reviews on books on which I am neutral or do not like.  I liked this book. Kyle Mills writes a good up-to-date adventure story about a rebel FBI agent who is not an FBI agent at the end of the tale.  Mark Beamon who put the truth ahead of his job, and who was drinking and smoking himself into an early grave is a good believable lead character.  He reminds me of people I have known in the past. Mark did not appear to fear death too much or anything else. His mind was made for thinking and he was afraid he was loosing his edge at that.<br />TV stations start getting videotapes from somewhere in the USA.  They show a primitive rocket launcher, which is in the hands of terrorists somewhere in the States. The FBI immediately have almost all of the people terrified of where the first rocket will land, in a supermarket, schools, shopping malls in what State?  When, is the next frightening question?<br />Beamon had ... off most of Congress and embarrassed the Washington elite with a too honest investigation and was about to be sacrificed on a tromped up charge. When a new president was elected and he had support again and was given an office in the field--one more dinosaur that would not disappear immediately. <br />He contacted Laura Vilechi, an old friend in the FBI for information about the rocket launcher and unofficially joined her effort to find it. This took him, Mark to places in the world that he would just as soon have never seen, and people like General Yung in Laos. Yung was a murdering sociopath   the   king of drug trafficking in his part of the world.  <br />The FBI had in affect fired Mark, and he was working with a powerful mystery man, Christian Volkov whose primary income aside from his many legal businesses was from drugs. He was a citizen of anyplace and everyplace in the world and for the people who wanted him impossible to find. But he found Mark and developed a liking for him.  <br />Mark helped Laura find the rocket launcher with the aid of Christian Volkov and the CIA, and the unwilling aid of the Mob. Mean while he got himself in so deep with Christian Volkov that the FBI tried to find him because he was embarrassing themits an interesting book.  If you like books about the FBI, CIA and drugs in our modern world read it and do yourself a favour.<BR>Roger L. Lee	2003-01-26
US	47808906	R2AMV55U19XYVB	1559274328	959965687	This Noble Land: My Vision for America	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A True USA Patroit	THIS NOBLE LAND My Vision For American by James A. Michener <br />Mr. Michner was a true USA Patriot for his whole life and died a true USA patriot. I could not sum up his work for the USA any better than that.  James was 90 years old when he wrote this dream as to what he wanted his country the USA to become starting from his death when he wrote this his last book.  What this book really is an open letter to Americans with the blueprint of a utopia, which he realized, was not possible with humans and their different inspirations, but he continued to have hope right to his last breath.<br /> The things that he writes about has been achievable and he gave a blueprint to use to achieve his suggestions.  Considering the situation we are in now his ideas would have been good if implemented. They should be implemented if our `elite' permits it.  Our elite is now is the small number of people who now belong to the moneyed part of our society. These people have 80 percent of the wealth.  We have reached the stage of our society where the money is king and the elite, which have the money, are leading us.  <br />Money used to be used for cover over our heads and food.  It is now power and elects our leaders, good or bad. Before that we elected our leaders for their ability as a hunter or provider.  Then there was a relative short time when we had a democracy where elected them by votes of who we thought could lead us down the road to freedom and prosperity.  Now our leaders talk a good democracy, but their actions are something else.<br />Michener starts out by explaining our tax system and provides suggestions for replacement after telling us how bad it is. He starts by telling his submitted tax declaration took 48 pages, this was in 1995. American tax declarations really haven't changed much since then. If anything they are more complex now. Read his thoughts on taxes they will be eye opener.<br />How do we get work for everyone in American?  We are not headed in that direction now. Mr. Michener has a few ideas some have been tried in the past by countries in the world with varying degrees of success.  Mr. Michener has put a lot of thought into this.<br />    I want to quote Mr. Michener here, \\"Our government must stop passing income tax laws and other laws whose only purpose is to siphon even more wealth into the hands of those already rich while penalizing those at the lower end of the economic scale.\\"<br />For any kind of `trickle down' system to work the elite have to give more to the humans who need it and will spend it on food and clothing to prevent a revolution of those who are not participating in the American bounty. And these are the people who spend and cause our economy to grow.<br />Mr. Michener addresses the condition of our society and where the blacks fit in.  This is really worth reading for all colors. He is dreaming about a classless society.  <br />He addresses large company and their employees, but he was not privy to our `evil' system which has came to the attention of our government now.     Large and small companies were or are stealing from stockholder and employees both equally and sharing in the downward movement of these companies. The government is acting `very slowly' to correct these problems.<br />Mr. Michener, who taught in grade school up to post doctorate level in the university, was very interested in this subject.  He went to elementary school when the children said a `pledge of allegiance to the USA' before they started class.  We have gone on `dumbing down' our children in the last few years in spite is Mr. Michener's warning. I cannot write all of his recommendations here. Read his book!<br />I am running out of space and time, but Mr. Michener's comments on the USA family should be read and digested.<br />His health care section should be read by everyone in the government that has anything to do with the health laws.  He put a lot of thought into how to improve our system, which is getting worse it, could.  Most of the western countries have better health systems than ours. Why is this, just the smell of money?<br /> This is getting to long to hold attention so I will close for with the recommendation to read, THIS NOBLE BOOK, MY VISION FOR AMERICA, by Mr. Michener, whose last thought was for the United States of America.   <br />Roger L. Lee	2002-12-24
US	47808906	R2WJBPJ1TEOCRU	0786868414	511065138	Leadership	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A MAN AFTER  MY HEART	LEADERSHIP By Rudolph W. Giuliani, The Mayor of New York at one time.<br />Those who have their entire life in politics often become spin artists rather than thinkers. <BR>Rudolph W. Giualiani <br />I liked his book he has a good plan to live and lead by and was not embarrassed to change his mind when he finds that some of his ideas were not as good as the ones he listened to, recognized, and adopted. But mostly I liked his book because he know where the buck stopped. It stopped with the leader, CEO, governor, president of a corporation or city or state. You can take the criticism and the kudus because that is what you are being well paid and enjoying the perks for.<br />Giuliani recognized the fighting standards his father gave him when he was very young and they paid back when he implemented them. He learned to communicate with the masses and individual humans. He practiced giving speeches many times and made it pay off. He liked words and would spend a lot of time picking just the right words to express exactly what he wanted to get across.<br />Everything worth the effort he would have his people make a plan not to just do the job, but to do the job better than it had been done before. Each plan would have a way to measure it for success and to measure it against all other plans. He wanted his people to be enthusiast while doing the job, do the job right and strive to do it better every time. Reports of progress would be made every week.<br />He made a couple of statements in his book that made me think. When he refused to let the Authority Palestinian President Yasser Arafat attend a party in New York, kicked him out, in 1995, because as Rudy said he would not stay bribed. You could give him more land (Palestinian) and he would say he could not do what he said he would do, and come back for more land or something else. <br />By kicking, Yasser Arafat out of the party Rudy caused him to lose face and Arafat had to get him back somehow with something he could help do in New York to regain face? For an Arab to lose face is the same as insulting someone who is not Arab. The Arab will feel that he is bound to avenge the loss of face if it takes his death, and he doesnt ever forget that loss of face until that it has been revenged! That may be one area where we should know the Arabs better; maybe its too late now. No! Its not too late change Arabs to where they are a little flexible about insults. There are other groups in world that may have to change to. Its education.<br />Again, I think of the old bible, which had very inflexible rules. Most of these humans who think of life and death being the only way are still going by the old bible. There are many shades of gray.<br />Giuliani got an education from being raised in a normal family with normal rules in his time. His thinking, before acting was as a result of the  old fashioned way and the fact that he had a brain which he used.  <br />Giuliani liked the organization chart as a tool and used it like living tool as it should be used. He learned it keep it up to date. He had it in his brain all the time. He know the name of people where they fit in the chart and used them for their strengths but knew their weakness also. If he saw a weakness in area, he would assign a person with strength in the area of failing, maybe a deputy, to make up for the weakness. <br />All in all, this is a good book for someone in a position of responsibility to buy and use as a reference. Ill give the author four stars for an excellent book on management.<BR>Roger L. Lee	2002-12-20
US	47808906	R4EDJYRDP3YPF	0684829533	27723503	Lee	Books	4	31	38	N	N	The Honorable General	LEE, by Douglas Southall Freeman, and James M. McPherson, who wrote the forward.<br />The one thing that stood out was that Robert E. Lee was an honorable gentleman throughout his life. He lived in the time when that was the thing to do.  He not only was a fine military Officer, but a good man.  Robert E. Lee was a man with a code of conduct that he imposed on himself and never wavered from it.  He fought for the Confederation as the General of the Army when he knew that the south was loosing the war and did not really believe in what the south stood for, but he believed in honor and defending his home, Virginia as he always had.   <br />This book was the result of combining seven volumes and making one book.  Editing it must have been a job and it was a job well done.  The book is seamless in spite of the fact that is a combination of seven volumes.  The war was very well covered. It will make a lot of battle fans happy with its detailed description of every battle. <br />Lee's destiny was set when his father, `Light-Horse Harry\\" Lee who was a brilliant dreamer about riches which, he never seen, had quite a bit of influence on Robert's life. Harry spent some time in debtor's prison. His father's life had a great deal to do with Robert's attitude toward any kind of debt. He believed in living on the money you had.<br />Robert managed to get into the Academy with the help of his friend's and mother's family.  He graduated at the top of his class in West Point.  He studied engineering; it was the only thing that emphasized physics and math at that time (1820).  What Mr. Lee had during this time, was brains that was driven by his code of life, which allowed him to be a historical figure in the 19th Centenary. I'm afraid that this code of living, honest, truth, ethics, and honor has been downgraded by a lot of people to where it does not have impact in the 21 Centenary.  It used to be what American stood for. <br />Robert E. Lee graduated from the West Point Academy with honors in 1828-29.  Lt. Lee received his first orders as a Brevet Second Lieut. for duty with Major Samuel Babcock of the Corps. Of Engineers for duty at Cockspur, Island, in the Savanna River, Georgia. <br />His brother, Henry Lee disgraced him by losing the family place Stratford for a debt and getting in trouble with the younger sister of his wife.  What would not have been worth bringing up now days, the honor of the family meant a lot more then--Henry Lee was never mentioned again by Robert E. Lee. <br />Finally, in 1846 Lt. Robert E. Lee received his order to report to Brigadier General John E. Wool for service in Mexico. He was chosen to fight in a war, his first.  He left the Mexican war when it was over as a brevet of Colonel without the colonel's pay.  During the Mexican war he had earned the high opinion of his supervisors and the other American Officers for his superior ability to think and carry out an action. He was now `Colonel Lee', a title of respect. <br />A great part of the book explained in detail about the battles when he was the General of the Confederation of Army.  This part of the his life is very covered in detail.  Later he accepted a position at Washington and Lee University and left that position and the world in 1870.<BR>Roger Lee	2002-08-02
US	47808906	R12E6L3W6PIIJH	0425184242	206586794	Uncommon Justice	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The Crazy Irish	Uncommon Justice by Terry Devane<br />I liked this book although the main character, Meiread O'Clare may use a few references that are out of my ream.  But, since Meiread O'Clare is a young Irish lawyer who plays hockey for a hobby anything goes.<br />Meiread had left a position with a partnership firm where she felt that she was stuck in `dung'. She accepted a job offer from a guy she met setting on a park bench feeding pigeons. This was her first job in the real world with a real tough woman with a big heart for a secretary and a boss with marriage problems. She was determined to be a good lawyer. Then she was assigned to defend a crazy Irishman who said he was innocent of murder but who did not want to be defended. It gets worse! <br />For her first case she is defending a cave dweller who lived along the Charles River in a riverbank cave shored with scrap lumber who has been charged with a murder.  He is also a well read Irishman, and that is about all that is know about him.  He was self named Alpha and did not want to be defended by anyone?  <br />When he was picked up by the police looked like he had not had a bath, haircut or shave for years.  He smelled to heavens, but luckily the police had cut off his hair and beard and made him take bath before Meiread met him. His club, `shillelagh' or walking stick had been used to kill another cave dweller who lived close by.  Alpha was an educated Irishman and a likeable one with his crazy sense of humor. Meiread did not know how to take him when she found the jail and her client with help from her boss.  She liked him, but he made her mad.<br />The book keeps the pace going full blast with some believable characters, very good and very evil until the end.  This author is strange to read until you get into his book and get synchronized with his characters.  Then you will like is style of writing. It's crazy whimsical Irish.   This book is better than average.  I'll give it three and a half stars for the Irish feeling. If you think this review is messed up, wait until you read the book.<br />Roger Lee	2002-07-10
US	47808906	R2ADOL6TJ2IH3J	0515117234	200908480	Wild Horses	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Wild Women	WILD HORSES by Dick Francis<br />This is not a new book, but to me it was I just read it.  Dick Francis is not a new writer. He has many books to his credit. This one is an excellent effort as was all of his books.  Of course he was writing about something he is very good at, horse jump racing. His prime character in this story is a 16-hour a day working director of a movie about steeple jump racing.  <br />Thomas Lyon is the director of 'Unstable Times', who solves two murders and several 26-year-old mysteries while director of the movie.  He almost had his life ended when the writer, of 'UNSTABLE TIMES', and other people involved who didn't like what the movie implicated and took it very serious.  <br />This is a good story of the work and people involved in making a movie. Just a good book for the information about the nitty gritty work involved in making a movie and how much work and how dangerous it can be.	2002-07-08
US	47808906	RH4V3NA692Q79	0786890037	908407552	Silent Joe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Acid Orphan	SILENT JOE by Jefferson Parker<br />This is a writer who was a new discovery for me.  Jefferson Parker's good, actually for this book he was better than good. <br />This is the story of an orphan, Joe Trona who grew into a very capable, polite and to the people who knew him a very agreeable, if disfigured figure.  His natural father threw acid into his face when he was an infant and his mother left him at the same time.  The traumatic experience shaped Joe's life from that point on. He was known as the `acid baby' for a long time.  Will and Mary Ann Trona adopted him when he was five in spite of his dreadfully scared face.  Joe started out worshiping his adopted parents.<BR> <BR>Later, after schooling, when he was 20 Will got Joe a job as a deputy for the county Police Force. He worked a five-year probation as a guard in the jail before they would let him become what he considered a real police patrolman. Meanwhile he eared a black belt in self-defense along with several medals in handgun use.  As soon as he earned his drivers license he became Will's driver, confidant and bodyguard.  He was a 24 year old, large in size and in good condition, and looked dangerous. People were careful when said around him.<br />Will, his adopted father was murdered while Joe was with him.  Joe loved his father and felt responsible in spite of killing two of the murders out of the five who were there when Will was killed. He devoted the remainder of his time to finding the people who had contracted for the murder of his father and preformed that murder.<br />Joe used a lot of the police lore like finding fingerprints that Will had taught him.  He was a very fast driver and was curious as to how the killers knew where he was taking Will. He found a small transmitter affixed to the underside of the car that he used to drive Will to some of his assignments. From this small beginning and his photographic memory he slowly put the case together to find his father's murders and the multitudeof people that were implicated.  Joe is  very quiet and concentrated as an investigator. His quest for justice makes an excellent book. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did.<br />...	2002-06-30
US	47808906	R1YJ2G48UYTQG8	0446516570	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	4	5	9	N	N	A MAN WHO WAS	UP COUNTRY By Nelson Demille<BR> <BR>I wasn't going to write a review on this book because it has enough reviews written now-some of them very good, but it does the best job of explaining the Vietnam War that I have ever read. Besides the plot is very good, with Paul Brenner back with us after THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER, an excellent book it's own right. In this book he is the same fearless, wiseass with an excellent personal code of honor.  Of course he's involved with the army's Criminal Investigation Division, the CIA, Secret Service and the FBI and if that wasn't enough he starts feuding with the a Colonel Mang of the Vietnam Secret Police, and almost ends up in jail or worse, as soon as he gets back to south Vietnam before he starts up country to the north.  <br />He met a very pretty young lady, Susan Weber by design as she was his contact, and she managed to stay with him from one end of Vietnam to the other. This was quite a trip; especially since Paul Brenner's CID mission was a very important 30-year-old murder and he know less about it than the CID or the CIA who monitored Paul for almost the almost the whole trip. This book is worth reading.  In one of the reviews it was suggested that he wrote the UP COUNTRY as a catharsis for his tours it Vietnam War, this story could be easily be that. Mr. Nelson Demille writes a first-rate book with some first-class war history. <br />Roger Lee	2002-06-09
US	47808906	R2RA695ZZBBM4I	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	4	3	8	N	N	A Confused Man With A Beautiful Mind	A Beautiful Mind By Sylvia Nasar<br />This book reads better if you recognize the following mathematical genius names; John von Neumann who worked on among other things the A-bombs and H-bombs, John McCarthy who was of the inventors of artificial intelligence, Riemann, a German genius who worked with mathematics on geometric objects and on...O' I almost forgot a name that all of the readers know, Einstein, and his theory of relativity.   <br />The book is the biography of a man, John Nash.  Sylvia Nasar spent a lot of time digging up very detailed information for this book. John Nash fits into this company of mathematical geniuses with no trouble.  He was born in West Virginia and went on to graduate from the Princeton University where he invented game theory.  John was not a likeable person he definitely did not have much, if any, emotional intelligence he mumbled when he spoke, did not look you in the eye, and did not make friends.  But he had a beautiful mind for mathematic problems that allowed him to be valuable to the human race. After ups and downs he 45 years later won Nobel Prize in mathematics for his game theory.  <br />John Nash would spend as much as a year on a tough math problem and then, from out of the blue, come up with a solution.    <br />John fathered a boy with a nurse, Eleanor.  He refused to pay for the birth of the boy and did not marry Eleanor. Later he married Alicia who nurtured and committed him to a hospital by turns.  She had borne him a son in one of his lurid moments before he had a nervous breakdown. She was forced to divorce him later although they were together most of the time.   <br />John was not a nice person to know when he was young before his breakdown at 31 years of age when he was analyzed as schizophrenia.  There is a bit of a mystic story that a mathematic genius does his best work by he time he is 30 and as John got closer to that age he worried about his mathematic ability becoming mediocre. Over a period of time Johnbecame more schizophrenic until he had a nervous breakdown when he was diagnosed as schizophrenia. This is common enough with very intelligent people who spent most of their time thinking as an occupation.  There is a great deal in this book about the disease(?) schizophrenia. Some times it is difficult to recognize the difference whether one is a genius or a schizophrenic.  Only the work that they do differs, in one case it is coherent and to a knowledgeable person beautiful, or when studied proves to be completely bad and crazy. It may change from one moment to another.<br />In the case of John, schizophrenia took him to Europe where he got into all kinds of trouble trying to fine himself.  If his brain had not been so valuable to the world he might have disappeared as so many do with his problem.<br />I know a little about schizophrenic myself--having a sister and an aunt who suffered from the malady.	2002-04-26
US	47808906	R2W7DXCFHKI438	0743224914	868849101	Christmas in Plains: Memories	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Life in Plains, Acommunity in	CHRISTMAS IN PLAINS by Jimmy Carter<BR>LIFE IN PLAINS<BR>This is another of Jimmy Carter's books of God and his values.  Jimmy is a good man and writes something that will not electrify you.  This is part of his autobiography from Plains, the village or small town in Georgia where he remembered the good things when was a boy and always returned to Plains with his family to spend time with his mother and his wife's mother for Christmas. His father passed on earlier from cancer during this period.<br />He graduated from Annapolis, spent a long tour in the Navy, elected for two terms as state senator and then to the Governor of Georgia, before being elected President of the USA.  He married Rosalynn, a childhood sweetheart, during his time in the Navy and they had three sons.  He now has six grandchildren, at the last count.<br />After that, Jimmy and Rosalynn returned to Georgia. After founding the Atlanta-based Carter Center he is devoting the rest of time writing and doing good for all the world's people.	2002-04-16
US	47808906	R2EW8ZVXOB3BX	0060083336	594913796	My Stroke of Luck	Books	4	8	11	N	N	MAN WITH A GREAT EGO	MY STROKE OF LUCK By Kirk Douglas<br />This is a case where a huge ego with character comes in handy.  It let him help others and   it helped him become one of the best actors in his time.  Additionally, he wrote this book about a stroke he had in his 80s-and this is one of several books he wrote.  I hope my ego is large enough to keep me going for that long. It's not big enough to even to start what he has done is one lifetime.  So he couldn't talk. I know just how he felt. I couldn't either.<br />A brain attack is a strange experience, especially if you have aphasia.  You are trying to talk to the doctor and he hears nothing but strange sounds.  At least Kirk Douglas could walk which was wonderful at his age and after what he had already put his body through.<br />They have medicine for depression which some times does not help as Kirk found out.  Thank God for an ego and a wonderful sense of humor, which he had to have.  He has a very good memory and the things he did, and is still doing for his friends and strangers will always be remembered by the world.  <br />I got a good laugh out of his thoughts of death where he appeared in front of an old man and asked him if he was in heaven. The old man roared, \\"THAT'S WHERE YOU CAME FROM, don't you like what I gave you on earth, this is a RECYCLING PLANT, where humans are made of dust and in the end return to dust!\\" For some of us it is our heaven, the Earth!  That why we are in no hurry to leave.<br />It's wonderful that a man of Kirks age can write a book while he is recovering from a stroke.  And, not just a book, but also an excellent book, which will help anyone with any kind of disability problem who reads it. For others it's just an excellent book.<br />Roger L. Lee	2002-04-10
US	47808906	R2J4ZVMFWKBDXM	0679459626	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Attraction	FLESH AND BLOOD by Jonathan Kellerman<br />Another Alex Delaware psychological thriller and a very good one, up to Kellermans standard. A patients mother called 10 years after someone, a 15 girl he had started therapy with when her father pulled her out, and he had not really got to know. The patient was a pretty and smart girl who looked to Alex like she was headed for self--destruction. She was impatient during the therapy sessions with the meeting with Alex and finally didnt show up for one.<br />Now six years later after Alex observed her participating in a sex act with another girl at a bachelors party, he immediately left the party, and went home. She recognized him at the party as well and paid him a penitent visit the next day.<br />Then four years later her mother called. Lauren, the girl who had been Alexs patient was missing.  Lauren had it seems that she got her act together, passes a GED and was attending a University for a psychology degree.  Apparently, she had admired Alex and wanted to be a therapist. Now, she was missing and her mother called, and asked Alex for help.<br />Alex got in contact with a friend, a Los Angeles detective, Milo, and told him about the missing girl. Milos response was about what he expected when one reports a 25 year old college girl missing, which was she properly went somewhere with friends and did not tell her mother.  But the case really opened up when they found Laurens body in a trash dump with two bullet holes in her head.<br />Alex had a feeling of responsibly, because of his long ago unfinished work with Lauren when she was a 15-year old girl. He had done work with the LA police as a psychosis consultant. He felt guilty about not being able to help Lauren before, and decided he would try and help them find her murderer.<br />The case caused Alex to re-analyze himself, his emotions and his thoughts, as he got into it deeper.  He almost lost his long-time girl friend Robin, and as he got closer to the murderer, his life.<br />Ive read most of Kellermans books and liked the Alex Delaware series most.  This one was excellent and up to his four-star standard.<br />Roger L. Leeto the murderer, his life.<br />Ive read most of Kellermans books and liked the Alex Delaware series most.  This one was excellent and up to his four-star standard.<BR>Roger L. Lee	2002-04-09
US	47808906	RP7V0ELNAGC1W	0553378589	253928041	Working with Emotional Intelligence	Books	4	4	6	N	N	EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE	WORKING WITH EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE by Daniel Goleman<br />I read Emotional Intelligence by the same author and thought it was great.  I learned a great deal from the first book so I got the second book, Working with Emotional Intelligence.  I haven't worked for anyone, or any company for a long time so it was not really a book for me.  It's a book about just what the title says. For me, reading it was like a rehash of the first book.  If you have a position with other people believe what the author says and `say go for it'.  <br />It will be worth your time and effort to read this book, try, and put emotional intelligence into every decision where influence is an important function. If you are lecturing at meeting or working where emotional intelligence is import and, that's about any job.  Then buy a copy of Goleman book, Working with Emotional Intelligence. You will find its money well spent.  If you don't have the first book buy it too.<br />I wish Dr. Goleman have spent a little more time on ethics.  I can see where this is a dangerous thing to teach to some people. <BR>Roger L Lee	2002-03-24
US	47808906	R36K5UB627GCSI	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I Feel as Though I Should Know These Characters	INCRIMINATING EVIDENCE by Sheldon Siegel<BR> <BR>For a first book this has it all.  Mike Daley, an attorney and his partner Rose, his ex-wife, her brother, and various friends all have their human strengths and weakness'. Then we have Mike and Rose's great investigating capabilities. This story brings in all their feeling and capabilities.  Mike is called to defend a man who he does not like for good reasons. Before the case is over we feel the same way about his client, but Mike and his ex wife continue to pursue the case although their professionalism as lawyers is called upon to stay with it. <br />Only Mike, an ex-priest and ex-public defender, and who had gone through his apprentice as an attorney around the city of San Francisco's seamier side, could have defended his client and got the decision he did by the jury.	2002-03-23
US	47808906	R1AK7HS9UVXIQT	0525945768	106793233	The Oath (Dismas Hardy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Love of Money is The Root of All Evil	THE OATH By John Lescroart<br />To the readers who know his work this may be as good as a writer gets.  For John Lescroart, that is five stars and superior.  His family of characters led by Dismas Hardy, the very human attorney, with characters that include everyone that we have met in his previous books and a lot of new characters good and bad.  This takes on a subject that interests all of us, insurance and medical care with a several murders being investigated by Dismas Hardy and Detective Abe Glitsky and team topping it of to keep it interesting.  I cannot remember anyone else writing so knowingly about the health circle; HMO Insurance, medical service personal and subcontractors, hospital, and drugs (medicine) both brand name and generic. It's a vicious circle. John Lescroart´s research work must have been a tremendous job for this book.<br />He keeps a very large variety of very human characters, by first and last names, police detectives, doctors, managers or directors, nurses, attorney, district attorneys and their office personnel busy--all with the normal frailties of humans. <br />Investigating directors who were negotiating for money and medicine, and controlling a busy group doctors and nurses keeps the book moving at a fast pace. After reading this book you will understand a lot better egotistic doctors, (who were only interested in saving lives, and believed that people should this) when they have time from their rough schedules to stop and answer police's question.<BR>Roger Lee	2002-02-28
US	47808906	R2UL0W7GB17Z0L	0671040596	666522577	Deviant Ways	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You Will Need A Break After This One	This is the story of four men with psychopathic personalities.  Two who are vicious murderers? The other two are FBI profilers? Maybe if you are a profiler for that type of serial killer you have to be psychopath?  One of the criminals, Hamilton, who went to prison for a series of crimes so vicious, that when he attacked Jack Casey, FBI, the primary character in this story, Jack was committed to an institution for the insane for time to recover.  <br />Jack Casey was the FBI profiler assigned the Hamilton case earlier and helped put him away.<br />He came back to from a recommended break in Colorado where he was working in carpentry as therapy.  Jack came back to a job with a police force in a supposable peaceful town north of Boston.  But killers seem to find him. Another psychopath who   had some connection with Hamilton started killing families and blowing up whole neighborhoods.  This one called himself Sandman. The bad thing was he knew Jack and the problem from which he was recovering.  Jack found a savior in another ex-FBI profiler who was extremely highly intelligence and a bit of a psychopath himself. Jack had a very good woman, Taylor, who learned to know the Sandman to her dismay. Saving her life turned into a big task.<br />For just plan torture and bloody killing I do not believe you can find a more interesting book.	2002-02-03
US	47808906	R3SD7LZOLSLEAP	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Juggling Five Balls	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas By James Patterson 1/20/02<br />This is extremely different from what one expects as a subject of a James Patterson book.  He still writes short chapters.  And he still writes well, but some of his characters it this book are just too good to be true.  My wife very much likes the book, which should tell me something.<br />Katie Wilkinson, who reads the diary and Suzanne who wrote most of it are two exceptional good women.  It's the man, Matt Harrison, the poet in Katie and Suzanne's life that is too sweet to be believable.<br />Katie met the first Matt Wolfe, an old friend from school and a bit more believable than the Matt Harrison who she married.  Matt Wolfe only showed up a couple of times in the book, but then he was not the marriaging type.<br />The coverage of Martha's Vineyard, the people, the houses, the town and the atmosphere is good enough that I felt like I was there. This book is a real tearjerker. <br />But there is something about a near death incident that changes your whole outlook.  I think that the lesson of  `juggling five balls' covers it very well.	2002-01-20
US	47808906	R1W0TN8DB9IB0K	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Plot IncludesTwo Mystery	VIOLETS ARE BLUE By James Patterson 1/15/02<BR>Two Mystery Stories For One <BR>I have been enjoying books by James Patterson ever since I came across them a few years ago.  I have a fondness for the characters Alex Cross, his friends and his family.  Alex Cross is a detective with the police force in Washington, DC who is used as a liaison with the FBI and other police forces in the USA.  He has solved many difficult murders and has quite a reputation. <br />Alex looses a good friend, a female FBI agent who was murdered in Virginia by the Mastermind who then called him on his mobile phone at the scene of the crime to challenge him. Before he can grasp the whole story; a friend, Kyle Craig, FBI, requests his help to help with another murder on the other side of the USA.  This murder was similar to another one that Alex had investigated in DC earlier and that was still open. <br />This book switches very early to a case about a sect of live vampires, and again Alex has been called from Washington D. C. to the west coast to help the San Francisco police with a case of two weird murders there. <br />Alex hopes that he will get a rest from the Mastermind, but of course he doesn't. The Mastermind is right with him wherever he goes.  The murders on the west coast had similar aspects to one in DC.  The victims in San Francisco and the one in DC had been gnawed on and were hung upside down with apparently a lot of blood drained out of their bodies.<br />The novel has two mysteries interwoven, the Mastermind and the vampires.  While Alex is working on the serial murders by the vampires the Mastermind is constantly harassing him with phone call and the threat of additional murders of his family and friends-two of which he carried out.    <br />Although this story had a lot of murders in several States and plenty of suspense, it was not as good as a few of his first books or I'm getting jaded, one or the other. Even though, in the end he solves both of the mysteries, crossing the USA several times in the process. The story has a lot of impact with the super vampires and the Mastermind. <br />I like his short chapters and good writing. I think it's worth four stars.	2002-01-16
US	47808906	R1KJTKRL256161	0515130044	418239112	The Attorney (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Maybe Good Justice?	THE ATTORNEY By Steve Martini 1/10/02<BR>Paul Madriani is a likeable attorney who gets involved in the case of a missing 8-year old girl. He was hired by her grandfather to get her back in spite of Paul telling him what he needed was a private detective.  Jonah, the grandfather who ends up arrested for a murder, is a man who has a hair-trigger temperature, but respects the law so much that he will not tell a lie to save his life.<br />It looks like Paul got over his head when dealing with the women in his life.  To say he was getting a real snow job is putting it lightly.	2002-01-13
US	47808906	R2Q09HMNH424OB	0670899844	631117873	Thinks . . .	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Crying is a Puzzler	THINKS...By David Lodge<BR>It's hard for me to write a review on this novel.  For one thing there is uses one of my exercises, writing memoriam of today's thoughts as I feel them.  David Lodge also mentioned a talk-to-me program when communicating with his laptop. I use one, but still have to write most of my thoughts using a word processor.  Some of the descriptions of autistic (one of the characters) fit many people.  That could be a requirement for a professor working with Cognitive Science-at least a touch of autism.  He or she could relate better to Artificial Intelligence machines, as one of the characters in the book says.<br />Ralph Messenger is an admirable Professor and Director of the Center of cognitive science.  He mixes in enough of earthly man to be human, and has enough of the character of an Artificial Intelligence machine to relate to computers.  A big part of his appeal to the reader is sex, although how he can fit this into Artificial Intelligence `is a puzzler'. Actually he doesn't, sexy is part of being earthy.<br />Helen Reed a recently widowed novelist is the prime supporting character in his book and is likeable on her own.  She keeps a journal using her laptop and a word processor.  Thinks... This is the thread that ties the book together.  Trying to read it just for entertainment...is a little difficult.  It would be an excellent book for an assignment in a university writing class. For just humor and entertainment many of David Lodge's books are easier to read. Did he write this to try new concepts in novel writing? <br /> I like that name, `Crying is a Puzzler', for Helen's book.	2002-01-10
US	47808906	R3N665UHIXPOMR	0345439007	573614386	All the Dead Were Strangers (Conrad Voort)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Doctors Without Borders, Countries Without Borders	All The Dead Were Strangers, By Ethan Black 12/28/01<br />I felt lost in the first part of this book, it did not have good continuality, and if I had not read one of Ethan Black's earlier books where I became acquainted with the New York police detective Conrad Voort I wouldn't have finished it. But I'm glad I did, because the story came out alive in the middle of the book.  It was interesting and alarming.  It will give the reader a change to pick whose side he is on-the police's or the dark, very manipulative higher one, which may be one department or person, which reports to no one? <br />I found the book interesting because of its obvious, before or after, connection to what happened on September 11 and what is happening now.  Mr. Ethan Black was unquestionably thinking out of the box when he wrote that book. It is definitely worth three stars in spite of the characteristics of some of his characters, which appears to change during the book.	2001-12-30
US	47808906	R1Y43GB8WK4ZAD	0060185074	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The Kindhearted Jury	THE VENDETTA DEFENSE, By Lisa Scottoline <br />This is a very good story of Pigeon Tony, the other Tony's and one Frank by a writer with a sense of humor.  Her humor extends to her new green Volkswagen. I like them to. Aside from that, Judy Carrier, the heroine, defends Pigeon Tony in a murder court case.  It contains enough Italian roughhouse and gunshots to make it very interesting.  Frank, Pigeon Tony's grandson, provides Romance. I'll give her three stars for a good book.  This is another lawyer book written by an experienced attorney. If I get into trouble I would like to have the jury she helped select.<br />Maybe it would be worthwhile telling what the stars rating means to me. First I will not waste my time reading a book that is less than good (three stars). Four stars would be excellent and five stars would be superior. Some books in my opinion are readable because of the ability of the author to write, even when he or she picks a poor subject. And again a book is good when the writing may be just readable and the outstanding subject, to me, carries the book into the readable and like area. Again, this is personal preference.	2001-12-26
US	47808906	R1FMMF1X93HNBH	0671787268	609092345	The Girls He Adored	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Killer With Multiple Personalities	12/22/01<BR>THE GIRLS HE ADORED By Jonathan Nasaw<BR>This book is not just different, it is better than most of the books that are available on serial killers.  This killer is really a diverse individual, because he is many individuals wrapped in one package. He can change in seconds to the particular person needed for the job at hand. This is a killer with multiple personalities and an IQ off the scale. Max is especial attractive to the other sex, and he has what may be called a special case of DID or what is called multiple alternating personalities.  The psychiatrist, Irene Cogan who was called in to evaluate the killer, finds the subject interesting beyond anything she has ever seen before. <br />The killer was picked up after a routine stop led to a disemboweled strawberry blond who was in the car with him and a stabbed and nearly killed police officer.    A very out of the ordinary FBI agent, W. L. Pender who stood out for being worst dressed in the bureau, has for 10 years been investing serial murders of strawberry blonds and finds the subject interesting for a different a reason.  <br />How would you like to have on tap an encyclopedia that can answer a question on anything to which he has been exposed?  That just one of the personalities the serial killer has on call in the package.	2001-12-22
US	47808906	R2N3FMRDDHM17E	0743204123	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed And The American Boom	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Maestro, Good Title	MAESTRO By Bob Woodward<BR>I read this book the first time in 2000 or early 2001 and like it. I went back and looked this book over in August of 2001 based on what the market has done in the last year. I like Greenspan and what he has done to bring the market down to a \\"soft landing\\", although a lot of people out there won't agree with me about the soft landing. Incidentally, I like Bob Woodward's style of writing-he is good.<BR>I believe the people should have paid more attention to Greenspan in 1996 he said the said that they were being \\"irrational exuberance\\" about the stock market. That's the other side of the coin from \\"irrational\\" fear which some people are getting a dose of now. Anyway, this book is good--Greenspan is a true Maestro with a computer in economics. Than God he has a computer, it speeds up his calculations by nearly an infinite amount! I believe he is doing what he wanted to do, bring the stock market down to soft landing. There were billions of dollars that had to disappear to bring the market down to a reasonable figure after years of \\"irrational exuberance\\" by the whole world. There is one thing I do not believe that I saw in any book, the much lower price per share adjustment brought about by a company's programming earning down for the amount of goods sold as the company's income decreased. You see in many books the P/E (Price to Earnings Ratio) for a \\"bull\\" market and the P/E for a \\"bear\\" market, but you do not see the distortion brought about in these figures by how many good they didn't sell or how much service they didn't sell? In other words there is a big change to their bottom and top P/E that you have to factor in before you these statistics. Sounds simple-it isn't.<BR>I would suggest the less complex book, Riding the Bear by Sy Harding to enhance your enjoyment of Bob Woodward book Maestro. When you throw politics into the mess you can really got confused. Wait until 7x year-old Greenspan retires!<BR>Happy days,<BR>Roger Lee	2001-09-11
US	47808906	R2VB8455BPSE4P	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	3	N	N	If you are a proud USA citizen, read this.	JOHN ADAMS by David McCullough<BR>This biography should be required reading before the first year of college. John Adams had so much to do with the making of the America government that his story is the story of America. He helped write the Declaration of Independence and was there every step of the way to make sure it was implemented. As a signer of the document and one of the most enthusiastic and involved American for independence, he was a traitor to England and was to be put to death by the English. In none of his correspondence with the English, French and to his fellow American did he waver is his determination to see a free American. This review would not be complete without the contributions that were made throughout the book by Abigail, John Adams wife who was another prodigious letter writer. She wrote about the events that were happening and she wrote with comments. At the same time the health and well being of the family was first. Because of John's position as an envoy to France and the Dutch Court and a minister to The Court of St. James in England his wife was not with him a great deal of the time. Crossing the Atlantic in a sailing ship was a long, more than three-month adventure, and John did it twice. Later, on John's second voyage, Abigail went to him in spite of her fear of sailing the Atlantic. David McCullough kept the story interesting. This of type of biography can be very dry. It helped that John Adams was a prodigious writer--with letter in his own hand and memoriam after memoriam of every thing including his trips across the Atlantic. John Adams donated his whole life to America and its freedom for the people. Even when retired and writing again his main subject was America. To accept the job of writing a biography for John Adams and do it honestly to the memory of John Adams was an admirable project. John Adams's first test was the trial of the British Captain and the six solders that killed five men in what was then called the Boston Massacre. The 34-year-old John was to defend the Captain and the solders. He did this without letting his person feeling or the personal feeling of his American friends interfere. The captain was found not guilty and four of the solders were found not guilty. Two were found guilty of manslaughter and were branded on their thumbs.<BR>John was busy with his duties to Congress and very worried about his family when he was not there to help-which was very often. His family was living near Boston during a Smallpox plague. Dr. Zabdiel Boylston a great uncle of John Adams introduced the smallpox inoculation in America approximately 1716. An African Slave named Onesimus said that the practice had been practiced for a long time in Africa. He had a scar on his arm to prove it. Abigail, John Adams wife, had the children inoculated against Smallpox with success when it was a very new and untried procedure. One more very drastic medical problem at the time of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of War, with the British warships already in the area. America fought the Revolution War without a president or a vice president. George Washington was the American general who reported directly to congress. John Adams was the first Vice President to George Washington who was the first President. They had not decided what John's pay would be. The two wealthiest men in the nation at this time were Franklin and Washington who both supported the idea of public officials serving without pay. John was opposed to the idea that the public officials would serve without pay besides he couldn't afford to serve under those rules. He had written earlier when he was in England that under the circumstances of not being paid, \\"all offices would be monopolized by the rich.\\"<BR>David McCullough did a good job or picking out the parts of the documents which meant something to America and John Adams and belong in this biography. I really felt as thought I'd met John Adams and likedhim after reading David McCullough's biography. I believe John Adams would have liked this history of his life. John Adams was a man who picked out his own weaknesses; he not only picked them out, but also attempted to correct them. I imagine that egoism will always be a problem with people in politics. John recognized it, and wrote about it as reflected in his memoirs. He had more than normal type of vanity, not the mirror type; in his case it would be called intelligence vanity, or again egoism. I will rate this at five stars. If I could give it more I would.<BR>Roger L. Lee	2001-08-29
US	47808906	R1N04MF3K278QW	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Children(?), Teen-agers and Adults	Harry Potter and The Prisoner Azkaban by J. K. Rowling This is a book about an extraordinary adult-like child in a weird world. If the Parry Potter series are childrens books, J. K. Rowing is writing more for the adults and teen-agers than children. I am sure the wizards teachings with all the types of animal-like things that up makes this series of books make then as interesting for adults as teen-agers. I enjoyed it. I understand that this is one of series of books. I find this series fascinating, but strange for children. If they can read books theres old enough to read, the you-know-who killed the mother and father of Harry that is stated very emphatically. The Prisoner of Azkaban, Sirius Black withstood the Dementors, who guard the prison and escaped in spite of them. He was charged with murdering 13 people with one curse! I believe that you will find characters such as Dementors in Dantes Divine Comedy. Dementors do not understand pleading or excuses and can kiss you and take your soul and leave you soulless. One who is soulless is incurable demented. They make wonderful guards for a prison or Hades. We have finally found the thing worse than capital punishment. During his third year at Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizardry he must confront the devious and dangerous wizard responsible for his parents death. Dark Lord Voldemort is the mind behind the whole thing and would have killed Harry if possible. He intends to keep tryingits the only thing he lives for. Read the next book in the Harry Potter series. This is very interesting and unusual off-the-track science fiction for teen-agers and adults. Harry Potter is a nice hero, but it would be better if he were older. Although young, is good when you are writing a series. Harry gets older every book and every term in Hogwarts School. This could be a long series. Apparently, muggers (people without witchcraft ability) cannot control the 14-year old boy. By the time Harry is 21 and inthe University for Witchcraft and Wizardry he will be something to deal with. This book will have me thinking for a long time. It is well worth five stars. Roger L. Lee	2001-08-25
US	47808906	R32SEVIFKS8AC1	031226593X	603778953	The Forger: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lesson In History	THE FORGER by Paul Watkins<br />It's a good lesson in history--how the people lived and died in Paris during the occupation through the Second World War.  David Halifax, art student, went to Paris just before the war and stayed until the end of the war.  He survived by becoming a master forger and helping France save some of her paintings.  He worked with the Nazis and the German Embassy playing one side against the other. <br />Meanwhile, he was observing the people around him, painting and working at staying alive.  He managed to get through the war without being killed by the French resistance or the Nazis. I like this book it is an honest attempt to show how the people live, or at least survive in a war.	2001-08-15
US	47808906	RQ9SFXIFOK3RB	0312261349	398553376	The Two Chinatowns	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cheap Life	The Two Chinatowns By Dan Mahoney<br />This is well written by an author who knows his subject.  Dan Mahoney worked as a policeman for 25 years before retiring as a captain.  This novel is written carefully with the smallest detail covered.  It is a tragic adventure that covers two cities in two different countries in America with the exciting final in Hong Kong, Singapore and Guam.  Cisco Sanchez the star in the story claims to be the best detective in New York. Besides, he is a boxer for the New York police team and an actor in the ring who has never lost a fight.  <br />Cisco saw Sue Hsu the woman he wanted to marry. She was an airline hostess. As usual he planned every move to meet her under the best of circumstances. He even took a flight she was working before introducing himself. Everything worked as planned except she was killed by a group of Chinese, part of the `Born to Kill' street gang. She accidentally got in their way on the way to the ladies toilet. Sue had taken Cisco to visit her Chinese Uncle's restaurant in Toronto when it happened.   Cisco swore that he would not rest until all the people concerned with her death were taken down.<br />Cisco discovered that The Chinese gangsters who contracted the `Born to Kill' street gang were heavily involved with smuggling illegal Chinese into New York and Toronto by way of containers ships from China. The novel grows from there to the climax at the end in Guam.<br />For ones who are interested this book has some very interesting part facts about smuggling Chinese and other Asians into America.  It is a very dangerous, interesting and a lucrative business. Life is very cheap in this novel.	2001-08-14
US	47808906	R30OE3ZSO8GE2K	0345428145	717221126	Murder One	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Passing  Time	Murder One by William Bernhardt<br />This story left me less than satisfied.   William Bernhardt built a good story and he had good characterization with the exception of his main (?) character, Ben Kincaide.  Ben just didn't come across like an exceptionally good lawyer. The murder was horrible and exposing the victim like the murderer did was enough to turn off most police and juries, but I don't see how the murderer could have chained the victim up in the manner she (?) did.  She was not strong enough and the place she was working was public.  <br />She supposedly did the murder in her house and moved the victim's body to the plaza and chained to the fountain.  A man 210 to 220 lbs. is a big man. Bones were broken (?) in his arms due to the ferocity with which he was chained. A five foot two woman with a well-proportioned body did all of this?  <br />Wasn't her brother living with her-and he was never questioned?  This story is too unrealistic to give more than three stars.	2001-08-14
US	47808906	R1ED5ODUX5UY5L	1587216531	732404192	Autobiography of a Good Life: Growing Up in West Virginia on a Hill Farm, Getting an Education, Traveling in a World Filled With Friends	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Enjoy Your Life and The Friends You Make	Autobiography of a Good Life by Roger L. Lee<br />Roger Lee led a varied and vigorous life on which he wrote an autobiography. He wrote the story of his life after he lost his daughter in a car accident and had a debilitating stroke.  He wrote it as part of his self planned and determined recovery effort in the Canary Islands. He relearned his English, which was his mother tongue and touch-typing on a laptop computer using Microsoft Word.<br />He grew up on a West Virginia hill farm where most of his friends' grandest ambition was to get into the military service for the Korean War.  They saw this as a way to get away from the farm and see some of the world.<br />When Roger was six years old he started his formal education in a one-room country school. The school was a two-mile walk one way.   The highest grade in the school was the eighth. He didn't know that there were higher grades available when you got out of the hills.<br />His father died when he was eight years old.  His mother raised him and his younger sister and brother with the aid of the hill farm.  His uncle came and gave his mother a hand by moving into a small house on the farm and sharecropping the first three years after his father's death.<br />Roger Lee enlisted in the US Air Force when he was eligible at 18 years old and went to Texas for basic training.  This was the beginning of his education.  He went from basic training to radio school in Illinois. Then back to Texas and from there to Japan back to the US for a tour at Washington D. C. From there he went back to Japan again. He came back to Texas after two years. All this time he kept working on a correspondence course in radio and radar and received his First Class Radio License.<br />He received an honorable discharge from the US Air Force and went to work in the field he knew best, electronics.  Later he was sent to Europe and saw a great deal of the western world while working on US contracts.  He was always curious about the people he met in the countries where he worked, their food, the way they lived, how they earned a living and their language. <br />When Roger came back to the US he went to work as a technical writer in electronics and started college at the University of Maryland to improve his writing.  He was soon bored by the US and went back to Canary Islands in Spain where he was employed at the Spacecraft Tracking Station.  <br />He stayed at the Canaries Spacecraft Tracking Station until he became the Operations Manager and Armstrong Landed on the moon.  Then a good friend took the job of managing the Spacecraft Tracking Station on Ascension Island and asked him to come down with him for a few months.  Roger had a family by this time, but he left his wife and daughter, a new car, an apartment, and a yacht that he had acquired in the Canaries and went to Ascension for four months.<br />Back in the Canaries after four months he was `sort of at loose ends.'  A telephone by another friend gave him something to do.  The friend offered him a position at the Alaska Spacecraft Tracking Station.  He thought about it, sold his car and yacht and took his wife and daughter to Alaska.<br />Roger spent a year and a half in Alaska and bought another house.  He got itchy feet again, took wife and daughter and took off around the world.  He was lucky there was plenty of electronics work and interesting people where he stopped in Hawaii and Australia.  He dropped off his wife and daughter in the Canaries and continued on back to Alaska.  This completed the trip around the world.  He was scheduled for two months in Alaska this time and sold his house there.<br />Lasers were something he had never worked with so when he was offered a job in the NASA laser network he jumped at it. This meant that he took his wife and daughter back to Maryland and bought another house.  From a year there he went on a contract with the Royal Saudi Navy in Saudi Arabia. From there he back to Texas to help write a proposal onthe shuttle contract. Then he went back to Europe to work with the European Space Agency.<br />Later he lost his daughter in a car accident in Texas while he was still working for the European Space Agency, quite work, and went back to the Canaries where he had a stroke that resulted in this book.  I hope you enjoy reading it as much as I did.	2001-08-13
US	47808906	R1B673BGIKIDVD	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Emotional Intelligence--Fields Where This Is Good	Emotional Intelligence By Daniel Goldman <br />This book should be required reading for people who depend upon their rapport with people for the practice of their profession.  Doctors who have a very high IQ and very little emotional intelligence should work in research where the lack of emotional intelligence will not count so much.  But doctors who work with patients should have, or have to have more than the normal quota of emotional intelligence if they want to be successful.  Then we get involved with the ego of the doctor and the patient and it becomes more important for a doctor to have rapport with his patients.  <br />This book does more than that; it goes into the brain and describes the functions of the parts that make up emotional intelligence in a language that can be understood by the layman.  <br />Being able to get along with people-that is 90 percent of emotional intelligence.  Being able to hold your temper and count 10 before blowing up.  If you think about it you may not have a reason to blow up.  If you think about it and are still angry you may have a reason to be-then you are angry with your intelligence in gear.  <br />The amygdala is the seat of emotional intelligence.  A person can be taught or drilled in the correct emotional response, but who does not have the necessary IQ (cognitive elements) to make a good decision. We have to suppose that a person will know his or her own limits. <br />This is a good book for the person who needs to know, and wants to know something about the all-important human `set of drivers' (the brain).	2001-08-11
US	47808906	R1LXAZXLLVQQY2	0767904001	449226103	My Year Off: Recovering Life After a Stroke	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Autobiography--Recovering Life After Stroke	MY YEAR OFF, Recovering Life After a Stroke By Robert McCrum<br />I understand the frustration of Robert McCrum trying to reach a telephone when he succeeded he found that he could barely make himself understood. I went through the same thing, but I was lucky enough that I was with my wife when the stroke occurred and although I couldn't talk I was put in an ambulance, took to the hospital and was under a doctor care within 40 minutes. Robert McCrum's stroke was much more severer that mine. He was hours getting to a doctor with his condition getting worse all the time...<br />Actually, this book is a very good autobiography of Mr. McCrum's life thought his stroke and recovery; although he is still recovering I am sure. And an interesting life it was and will continue to be. This book will be very useful to the members of my stroke club. Now, I will read the rest of his books. This one is worth five stars to me.	2001-07-23
US	47808906	R1ZSLR2ZTDQT5S	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	7	9	N	N	From the heart and the head	I wish I had read Stephen King 20 years earlier. I'd be a much better writer.  His explanation of a passive sentence is something I've been looking for all my life.   The way he explains everyone can understand.  Of course, as he'll probably tell you, he would not have the time or the inclination to write a book on writing 20 year ago.<br />I`ve been reading King's On Writing all morning. I believe that I got more out a morning reading than I would have in week's classes in professional writing.  Stephen King is more than a good writer he is a brilliant writer who loves his work. His explanation and examples of a passive sentence is the best I've ever read.<br />I am going to read some of Stephen King's book that I missed because I was too busy reading the types of book that I like more-the psychological suspense novel.  Besides I read what is available and a good friend has been loaning me a fairly heave load of reading lately.  You guessed it, psychological suspense novels.  I have been looking over the books that Mr. King thought enough of to put on his list of readables.  I am happy to say that I have enjoyed most of them.<br />I am glad that he had writing to get him through the post accident experience, he had a really bad incident, which will be with him forever.	2001-07-19
US	47808906	RH4LJK06FQTJG	0345433475	619026162	Irresistible (Conrad Voort Novels)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Millionaire Policeman	IRRESISTIBLE By Ethan Black 7/18/01 Have you ever seen anyone who was irresistible?  She was to most men but Conrad Voort; Manhattan sex crime specialist was not like most men.   And he was lucky because he was marked as one of the victims.  This novel will make anti-abortion people happy, that's what it's all about.	2001-07-19
US	47808906	R8M33NZ4RTFC1	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Connect To The Internet World	THE BLUE NOWHERE By Jeffery Deaver 7/9/01 The Internet will be the subject of numerous books from now on.  It's almost impossible to get away from it.  This book is a good start by a first-rate author about modern computer lore, or should I say about anything that can be programmed.  It is an excellent book about hackers, crackers etc...I don't want to rebuild the glossary which is a nice part of the book, besides most of us would be lost without it. The book is a typical Jeffery Deaver novel, with enough killing to make most of you who like psychotically suspense books happy. But from there it deviates into a hacker's novel and manages to maintain the `sitting-on-the-edge-of-your-chair' suspense all the way through.<br />The hero has two year toward a three-year sentence in the federal Men's Correction Facility in San Jose, California when the police came to get him to help catch a super good hacker who had broken every rule in the book and turned into a very smart killer.<br />Aside from the psychotically suspense part of the book, Mr. Deaver comes up with a lot of thoughts of what a good hacker can do-such as the Trapdoor program-that frightens me. Although like most computer users, I don't want anyone to get into my hard disk although I know they can when I am on line.  That is the reason there are so many `firewalls'--whether they do any good or not--sold now.<br />This novel is worth four stars as a novel and more for what it teaches.	2001-07-11
US	47808906	RBRCQ97WDS3VO	1587216531	732404192	Autobiography of a Good Life: Growing Up in West Virginia on a Hill Farm, Getting an Education, Traveling in a World Filled With Friends	Books	4	2	2	N	N	From Farm Boy To A Man With The World As A Teacher	This box is about life, one life in particular, the author's life. It covers the time from the time he tries to give his three week old sister popcorn until his daughter is killed in a car accident; he retires in Europe, and has a stroke. It descries 21 days in a hospital. The hospital in on the Grand Canary Island. I believe you will be surprised by the hospital and the care he received. <br />In between the popcorn incident with his baby sister and his stroke 60 years later he covered a good part of the world and got an education at the same time. His father died when he was 8 and his mother raised him on a West Virginia hill farm until he was 18. His mother then managed the farm and made a good living for Roger and his sister and brother. He worked on the farm along with his sister and brother until the Korean War started when he enlisted in the US Air Force.<br />He stayed in the Air Force for 8 years, 4 of which he spent in Japan. When he was honorable discharged from the US Air Force he went to work for Bendix as a tech rep. <br />With Bendix he was working in communications, radar, lasers, and computers in hardware and software. His work took him from Europe, to Libya, and Saudi Arabia to Alaska by way of Australia. When he was working in Europe he spent time in Turkey and on the Azores Islands. During his stay he married a Spanish Lady he later to went to Maryland, right outside of Washington D. C. where his daughter was borne. In Maryland he was a tech writer. Several years (12) of his working life was with NASA (as a contractor). He was manning a console on the Manned Space Flight Station in Canary Island when Armstrong landed on the moon. <br />You will find Roger's life interesting. But the book is really about growing up, developing a philosophy of life and finally becoming a man.	2001-05-14
US	47808906	R25MKPLGAU9MR6	0060198346	794635347	The Sky Is Falling: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Did Not Put Much Effort Into This One	THE SKY IS FALLING BY Sidney Sheldon<br />His standard book with a main character a female, this time a TV journalist who adopted a 12-year boy with one arm while in Sarajevo?  She spent the book unraveling a family murder mystery of a US family that took her from Germany, through France to Russia.  Of course, she became the hunted one during the adventures.  Another female with cancer gave a good support role in the book.  I like to read Sidney books, because you know what you will get and they don't stretch the mind-just good entertainment.	2001-04-16
US	47808906	RT4AU6BU2UZO0	0446527165	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Long Time Ago in The Virginia Hills.  Wish You Well	I just finished David Baldacci's WISH YOU WELL. It was not up to some of his writing. It was a bit stilted and the children (Lou and Oz) who were the main characters in this book were almost too good to be true. Their great grandmother, Louisa, was quite a strong person who took them in with their mother although the farm she worked hardly made enough for her and another of her strays, a young black man who turned out to be a 'jack of all trades', and a good one.  The school was true for that time and was very well described right down to the boys and girls outhouses.  The lawyer was unbelievable; he to, was too good to be true.  The young redheaded boy was another one of the strong characters in the book and was religious beyond his years.  But I will remember the books characters with fondness.  They were close enough to the Virginian hill people I knew to rate it as a good book. I'll give it three stars.	2001-04-09
US	47808906	R1HI0TIYA11GX2	0375701214	508561158	The Diving Bell and the Butterfly: A Memoir of Life in Death	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Small Book With A Large Impact	A small book with a large impact.<br />This is one of the best great books from a real thinker, one who could live in this mind using his emotions in the place of actions.  And write a book in his head.  This is what should be called a great  IQ with excellent emotional intelligence to round it out.  It is a shame that the world lost a man with his capabilities.	2001-03-04
