US	47816597	R17PE6LH1319SR	1400304822	628232523	Shaoey and Dot: Bug Meets Bundle	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Delightful Tale of Adoption	Most Christian music fans that follow the genre closely know by now of the children that Steven Curtis Chapman and his family have adopted. Chapman has quite publicly shared his adoption experiences with the world, both in song and on stage, and his fans have had the wonderful opportunity of seeing the beauty of adoption in a very unique way. <br /> <br />Steven Curtis and his wife, Mary Beth, have written their first book together based upon their experiences with their adopted children. Entitled Shaoey and Dot, it is a children's book re-telling the story of their first adoption experience. That daughter, Shaohannah (or Shaoey, pronounced SHOW-ee), was adopted from Changsha, Hunan, China. <br /> <br />SHAOEY AND DOT tells the story from the perspective of a ladybug named, of course, Dot. Dot starts off her day like any other when she happens to hear a sound different than any she'd ever known. The sound leads her to light upon the face of a baby who was causing a commotion - Shaoey. Dot decides to befriend Shaoey and soon discovers that she is in a room full of other babies - \\"this is where babies come to be found!,\\" she exclaims. As time passes Dot eventually finds herself accompanying Shaoey through the adoption process until she meets Shaoey's brand new family.  <br /> <br />SHAOEY AND DOT is really a treasure. Lovingly told and beautifully and richly illustrated by Jim Chapman (Mary Beth's brother), SHAOEY AND DOT is a wonderful picture book for any child, but especially appropriate for a family where adoption is a reality. Speaking from the perspective of one who was himself adopted, I believe that adoption is a beautiful, God-given gift, and anything that helps to healthily promote it deserves all the attention in the world. This is only all the more true when the method is as lovingly created as SHAOEY AND DOT was. This is one of the finest children's picture books of the year.	2005-05-18
US	47816597	R1O7H1GIGJRYR2	0830823328	42565510	Walking Away from Faith: Unraveling the Mystery of Belief and Unbelief	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Lord, I Believe. Help Me In My Unbelief	Ruth A. Tucker's WALKING AWAY FROM FAITH doesn't pull any punches. Whether we in the church like to admit it or not people do fall away from their faith, and not necessarily due to ignorant reasons. WALKING AWAY FROM FAITH presents their side of the story. It is a personal and sometimes painful read, full of emotion and transparent revelations. Drawing strongly on individual stories, this is a case study on the why's and the how's of the loss of faith. It is not an apologetic work, so when the &quot;why's&quot; are explored a lengthy rebuttal is not given. Rather, WALKING AWAY FROM FAITH focuses on the human side of the equation. It challenges a lot of pre-conceived notions regarding doubt and even presents a surprising picture of life on the other side of the decision to walk away - something that might not want to be heard but in an honest work such as this it is welcome and enlightening. Overall, Tucker does a fine job of exploring the issue from all sides. <br />The reason this book is so important is that is shines a bright light on an aspect of the Christian life that is too often ignored. Doubt. The reality is that most Christians at one time or another experience doubt of some sort. Usually it will not lead to a loss of faith but even in those instances it can be a very lonely experience. WALKING AWAY FROM FAITH challenges us to be a church that is more honest about these feelings. Tucker repeatedly wonders aloud if the people she interviewed would have chosen differently if the church would've better responded to their doubts and fears. This book will not solve the problems related to loss of faith, but it does graphically demonstrate the need for the church to re-examine its methods when it comes to handling these situations. It should also be a wake up call to Christians on an individual basis, to be more sensitive to instances of doubt in the lives of each other and, more importantly, to be Jesus to the person experiencing those doubts - not to condemn,shun, or spout pat answers. More than likely, at some point in life, we're going to be on the opposite end of that situation. Hopefully when that happens someone will be there for us to walk us through those shadows, and to help us pray, \\"Lord, I believe. Help me in my unbelief.\\" FOUR 1/2 STARS.	2003-07-02
US	47816597	R1TSGVCOGUFTE8	0310245656	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	5	21	25	N	N	This Book Defines Christian Living	Book of the Year winner, this is the best book, outside of the Bible, that I have ever read. <br />In WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE, Yancey presents a radical picture of what grace, the last good word, really is. As usual, his writing style is very down to earth, human, empathetic, and insightful. Grace is unmerited favor; forgiveness when it is not deserved or earned. So how do we deal with the idea of grace in the context of things like Nazi Germany, KKK atrocities, and Columbine high school? Can we reconcile the two in our minds? We must, if we are to understand grace as it is presented in the Bible. Real grace is incredibly scandalous. But scandalous grace is what God demands of His church. Real grace forgives the unforgivable, loves the unlovable, and reaches even to the undesirable. And when such grace is given, the world sees Christ, for Christ's grace given to us is just as amazing. <br />Yancey's words are poignant but sometimes shocking, as it is difficult for the rational human mind to impart grace when we tend to so automatically demand justice (the old eye-for-an-eye idea). The conflict is worthy of the struggle, though, because the application of his ideas on grace is truly profound. The most beautiful part of this book is how it works on two levels. Understanding grace radically transforms the relationship between you and God, freeing you from the bondage of legalism and salvation-through-works. Grace also transforms the relationships between you and the world. This is not a relationship book, but it has affect me in that area more than anything that I have read, for if God can show such amazing grace to me who am I to treat my peers any differently? When grace is given and people are forgiven we find incredible freedom from the bondage of unforgiveness and bitterness on our hearts. And, as Martin Luther King Jr. demonstrated, the impact of radical grace can literally change the course of history.<br />Learning to impart grace, and in the process destroying the cycle of un-grace, will utterly change your world. There is no other book that I can recommend more to a Christian searching to be more like Jesus, love more like Jesus, and experience His love to the fullest at the same time. Five Stars.	2003-01-19
US	47816597	R1AYJY3PS6G3MT	080542573X	710059055	Am I the One?: Clues to Finding and Becoming a Person Worth Marrying (Truthquest)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Superb Relationship Book Aimed At High Schoolers	AM I THE ONE is, for youth and young adults, the best book on relationships that I have ever read. Period. <br />James Lucas avoids all of the typical pitfalls that so many dating book authors fall into. He doesn't give you a list of don'ts - don't date (the trendy rule), don't kiss, don't do this, don't do that, and everything will be okay. Because, as I think we all know deep down, the outward rules are meaningless if the inside isn't in the proper order. One can not date a single person and still end up in a bad marriage. So Lucas turns the focus inward. He sets solid principles - not absolute rules - which help you ask the right questions of yourself. Principles like the ones he focuses on work best because each person's situation in life is different and the applications are not always going to be the same.<br />Much like Eric and Leslie Ludy's idea of &quot;giving God the pen in your life,&quot; from WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY, Lucas succeeds famously because he realizes that holiness and, ultimately, life success is based not upon legalistic rules but freedom that is found in Christ when our hearts and priorities are focused upon Him. Thus, AM I THE ONE, is a must-read for anyone who is really serious about finding themselves not only married to the right person but also having that marriage be a lasting and fulfilling one. The Ludy's book and BOUNDARIES IN DATING are both solid, but if you're a young person AM I THE ONE should be at the top of your reading list. FIVE STARS	2003-01-19
US	47816597	R3RTV3658SCDWJ	0736902678	575970255	The Inside Track to Getting Started in Christian Music (CCM Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Invaluable Resource	For anyone even remotely interested in a career in Christian music, GETTING STARTED IN CHRISTIAN MUSIC is a must-own book.<br />GETTING STARTED IN CHRISTIAN MUSIC, edited by Reed Arvin, features twelve chapters, written by thirteen individuals, covering most of the major issues that a new artist or writer faces. While a good book on the business of music, in general, will always be helpful there is much that is unique to Christian music and that is what makes this book so valuable. With contributors like Arvin, Charlie Peacock, Scotty Smith, Steve Green, Margaret Becker, and Joel Lindsey you know you're hearing voices that know of what they speak.<br />The book breaks the issues down into three sections: those facing artists and writers, only artists, and only writers. Subjects are discussed in an open and honest fashion, and the writers don't pull punches when it comes to potentially sensitive issues (such as whether one should even be seeking this sort of career in the first place). Arvin himself deftly covers the hot-button chapter on music vs. business. Harold Best's chapter on the role of music in worship is stellar, and should even be read by all those who lead worship in a church-only setting (especially in today's worship-booming environment). Other remarkable chapters include those on the history of Contemporary Christian music, Christians in the general market, the relationship between an artist and the local church, and the entire section on songwriting. It is hard to select only a few, though, since every section in the book contains a plethora of valuable information.<br />GETTING STARTED IN CHRISTIAN MUSIC will help new talent intellectually, emotionally, and practically. The advice offered is solid, and the opinions presented well thought out. For those entering the business, or even those who want to spectate from the outside in a knowledgeable fashion, this is one instance where a small investment will pay off handsomely in the long-run. A full FIVESTARS	2002-04-04
US	47816597	R2PZCMXUUKY7ID	0891073906	145017176	This Present Darkness	Books	5	158	169	N	N	A Real Page-Turner	With THIS PRESENT DARKNESS, Frank Peretti broke onto the scene by graphically tearing back the veil between our world and the spirit world. Descending upon the small town of Ashton, angels, demons, and strongmen engage in vivid spiritual battle and we, the reader, are able to see it all unfold. Ever wonder what exactly a guardian angel might do? Here's one possible scenario. <br />While Peretti's theology on the subject may not be perfect (many of his ideas are pure speculation, but that's why it's &quot;fiction&quot;), he does most definitely give us a bold reason as to why prayer is so vital. Why prayer does, in fact, move mountains and can turn the tide in unseen spiritual battles that are taking place around us (as happens in the book of Daniel). For that reason alone, THIS PRESENT DARKNESS is worth reading.<br />To be fair, this is not Peretti's best written book. THE OATH and THE VISITATION are both more sound, from a literary perspective (real character development, for example, isn't the best here). But before the LEFT BEHIND series, no other Christian novels were as widely read as this and its sequel. It is a true Christian fiction classic and a real page-turner that will have you burning the midnight oil. FOUR 1/2 STARS.	2002-03-04
US	47816597	RVVX9M205ODVW	0736907475	138272407	Fearless Faith: Living Beyond the Walls of Safe Christianity	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A Contemporary, Urgent Message	Every once in awhile a book comes along that can change everything. It challenges the core assumptions and conclusions of its audience, presents a well-supported case, and offers up a new perspective and ideal. Regarding the proper place of a Christ follower in the world, John Fischer's FEARLESS FAITH is one such book.<br />There are few people better equipped to talk about this subject than Fischer. Not only has he been recording and writing Christian music for over two decades but he has been grappling with this as the back page columnist for CCM Magazine for almost as long. It's one thing to discuss from the outside, or to arrive at the party so late in the game that the majority of the dances have already been danced. It's quite another to have been there from the start, as Fischer has been -- observing, participating, considering, critiquing, and challenging in this musical genre that, perhaps more than any other part of the church, has been at the forefront of this ongoing dialogue. <br />In FEARLESS FAITH, Fischer presents his thoughts on a wide variety of topics, but all of them have the same core assumption: John 17:15. In this verse, Jesus prays to the Father not for us (the church) to be taken out of the world, but that He would protect us from the evil one as we are in the world. The implications are clear: the church is not to remove itself from the world, the church is to be in the world, as we are in the world we will face dangers, and through it all God will be with us. <br />However, the past couple of decades have seen the church engage in actions that fly completely in the face of Jesus' intentions for us. Not only are we not engaging the world as we are commanded to, we have purposely created an entire subculture to protect us from the evils of that world. This subculture -- and there can be no denying that one exists -- was developed with good intentions, but history has now shown that it has ultimately failed in almost every way imaginable. However, contrary to what some might think, Fischer is not calling for the complete destruction of the Christian bubble. He recognizes that the safety of that bubble is an important step for the lives of most new Christians. They need that protection from the world while they are discipled and nurtured. The problem arises when we stay put in that bubble, even as our faith grows, and wallow in its protection, safe from the outside, evil world. Appealing as that safety may seem, it is not where Christ intended for us to reside.<br />No, Christ intended for us to be in the world, engaging those around, living His love in real and accessible ways. And the bulk of FEARLESS FAITH is a discussion of why/how we are not doing that, along with Fischer's ideas on what it will take to make the change. He discusses the issue of business and ministry, negative Christian stigmas and stereotypes, and shallow faith. He confronts the tendency of the church to be offended by the immorality around them, and why this is non-productive. He discusses what it means to be a witness, and why we are not doing so when we say we \\"witnessed.\\" And he offers up his thoughts on ways that we truly can interact with and contribute to our society in eternally meaningful ways.<br />I normally give an overview of the arguments that an author is making when I discuss their work. But I am not going to do that this time (and, to be sure, I really haven't). Fischer hits so many right notes here and does it so eloquently and forcefully that I feel that I would be doing his thesis a disservice by summarizing in such a short amount of space. Simply put, this is a book that deserves to be read by all. For those who already are sympathetic to Fischer's ideas, FEARLESS FAITH will be a battle cry and a manual to help you better take that faith into the world. If you are skeptical or even antagonistic to Fischer's viewpoint, FEARLESS FAITH will be a fair and loving challenge for you to reconsider your position. Its arguments are well backed by both experience and scripture, and because of the urgency of the message they deserve to be heard and understood completely before being rejected in whole or in part. Challenge your pre-conceived notions and see if they stand up to the test that is offered.<br />For the Christian music artist, executive, retailer, webmaster, dj, and fan, FEARLESS FAITH is a must-read. But even more so, for the Christian desiring to impact his or her world in the greatest possible way this is one book that you cannot afford to miss. I give it my highest recommendation, in hopes that we all can work to develop a more fearless faith. FIVE STARS	2002-02-21
US	47816597	R2WU657VEYQR4R	0785266305	691140242	Unfinished Work	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Surprising Insight From A Complex Man	Kevin Max is perhaps the most mis-understood person in Christian music. Due to many factors he finds himself often criticized for things he says and does, both in his public and private life. When I picked up his new autobiography, UNFINISHED WORK, I half expected to find at least a little bit of bitterness or resentment buried in his story. What I found instead was a man with a deep and far-reaching passion for the Lord, full of grace instead of anger, with much to teach all of us.<br />UNFINISHED WORK is essentially a written companion to K-Max's new, and first, solo album, STEREOTYPE BE (a brilliant, artsy, experimental rock album that is still growing on me). He uses each of the album's 14 songs to set up a chapter in book, building off the song's theme. But while there may be multiple segments to the story the over-riding focus of the book lies in its title: Kevin, and all of us, are unfinished works of God. Such a statement implies two things. One, each of us is God's handiwork, beautifully created with specific gifts and talents that we are to use for His glory. Two, none of us are yet &quot;finished&quot; and since we're all in different places on that journey we're going to reflect God's presence in our lives differently. Because Kevin is able to recognize this he is, stupid mistakes and all, in many ways more mature in his walk with God than many of the other seemingly-perfect Christian images that we all tend to look up to. I see a ton of Phillip Yancey and Brennan Manning-type thinking in the way Kevin approaches his faith, and that can only be a good thing.<br />The wonderful thing about this book is Max's unflinching transparency. He admits that many would probably prefer he didn't share much of his story (due to the magnitude of some of his mistakes) but I, for one, am glad that he did. It only makes his testimony all the more meaningful, and the grace of God all the more powerful. Max takes us back to the days of his youth, through Liberty University, the early days of dc Talk, and up to the release of this solo album. In the process we see not only the positive and sometimes glamorous aspects of Christian &quot;rock-stardom,&quot; we also are given a glimpse of its darker underbelly. Max also shares many of the personal struggles and mistakes that he dealt with in his pre-dc Talk days. Re-living all of these experiences could've easily turned into some sort of unfortunate E!-movie-of-the-week-type experience. But UNFINISHED WORK never comes close to that because instead of using his stories to dish or complain, the experiences work as powerful illustrations for Biblical truths that he has learned along the way.<br />As I read through UNFINISHED WORK and my understanding of Kevin Max as a person increased I was incredibly moved. This man has been through a lot in his still-young life. As I stated before, if he wanted to he could probably find more than a few reasons to be bitter or angry. Yet there is no bitterness, there is grace. And the man who many want to look at as immature, rebellious, and even dangerous is actually thoughtful, humble, and very much in love with God. In his own complex way, K-Max has shown himself to be one of the most relevant and important voices in the Christian music scene. Where too many other artists struggle with or hide behind their created image, K-Max's honesty and refusal to fit into a box stands out in as a wonderfully refreshing contrast. Christian music, and Christian art in general, could stand to take a few lessons from this man who, ironically, seemingly appears to be on the fringe. For if we are all, as he says, unfinished works of God, then we must we insist upon appearing as though we are actually finished and expect the musicians we hear to be the same?<br />There is much more that can be gleaned from this book for I have only touched on a couple of the greater aspects here. UNFINISHED WORK, then, is an important book that deserves wide attention. It's a wake up callto the church, the Christian music industry, and Christian music fans -- a call to get real with yourself, with each other, and with your God. It's also a beautiful story of a man who, while never quite fitting in, has been able to find acceptance from the One who ultimately matters the most. I was not a big K-Max fan when I started this book but now I have the utmost respect for both him and his art, and I pray that in their own unique way more artists can find the courage to express themselves as honestly as him. FIVE STARS.to the church, the Christian music industry, and Christian music fans -- a call to get real with yourself, with each other, and with your God. It's also a beautiful story of a man who, while never quite fitting in, has been able to find acceptance from the One who ultimately matters the most. I was not a big K-Max fan when I started this book but now I have the utmost respect for both him and his art, and I pray that in their own unique way more artists can find the courage to express themselves as honestly as him. FIVE STARS.	2002-01-12
US	47816597	R3364VES5FNOX2	1576738167	351551970	Redeeming Love	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Super-charged Emotional Read	REDEEMING LOVE is an historical romance that doubles as an allegory for the Biblical story of Hosea. It was actually the first book that Rivers wrote as a new Christian but was published in this market sixth.<br />If you're not familiar with Hosea then I suggest you sit and read that (Old Testament) book first. In it, God commands Hosea to take a prostitute as his wife. The prostitute is unfaithful and leaves but God commands Hosea to find her, forgive her and  accept her again, as an example of how much He loves Israel. It is a powerful story of bitter-sweet love and extreme forgiveness. <br />That same story is re-told here, in the setting of the old west. It is just as extreme and just as powerful. Rivers is the queen of character development and that strength is played upon even more than usual here. In the end, REDEEMING LOVE is a super-charged and emotional read that will both bring you to tears and give you a much deeper understanding of just how much God really loves you. FIVE STARS.	2002-01-11
US	47816597	R8E654F5AL4P8	1929125178	534488840	When Dreams Come True: A Love Story Only God Could Write	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Beautifully Told With A Strong Message	WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE is the autobiographical story of Eric and Leslie Ludy, authors of WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY. If you read WGWYLS then you got a taste of what the Ludy's tale was like. It's expanded upon greatly here and it turns out that their story is worth reading in its entirety.<br />WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE follows the lives of Eric and Leslie from childhood through marriage, in first-person point of view but from both of their perspectives. What the Ludy's are trying to accomplish in relating their past is to keep alive the dream of a real, pure love story for those who might think it is all a myth. Eric and Leslie were raised in the church but both made some bad relationship choices in their teen years. Leslie relates that because of her mistakes she thought the dream of finding a Godly mate (her &quot;knight&quot;) was no longer possible. But, of course, there's a happy ending. Because both of them got serious with the Lord and began to seek after Him wholly God began to move in their lives. Individually they had made the choice to give Him total control of everything, including their love life. And that's where things began to look up.<br />WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE, then, is a powerful testimony to what can happen if you put God first in your life -- your whole life. The Ludy's are a powerful example of just how much more beautiful one's own personal love story can be when it's told by the Maker Himself, rather than in our own feeble ways. Their philosophy on this subject is better related in WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY (I recommend picking it up), but there's something fascinating and lovely about reading through their whole experience and seeing the hand of God upon their lives. Not only was I touched by the read but inspired in my walk as well -- to strive harder for the things which they did in theirs.<br />If you're desiring to let the Lord show you a better way in your relationships, or if you are in a place where you feel like it's no longerpossible for something this good to happen for you then this is a book you need to read. Everyone will have a different story, but I believe that things ultimately can be just as amazing as they were for the Ludy's if we let the same Author take control of ours. For the Christian single, you can't do much better than the Ludy's books. FIVE STARS.	2002-01-08
US	47816597	RKDX7BNJS4NJU	1929125003	270458281	When God Writes Your Love Story	Books	5	90	95	N	N	A Solid, Balanced Approach	Subtitled &quot;The Ultimate Approach To Guy/Girl Relationships,&quot; WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY has some big expectations to fill. Remarkably, Eric and Leslie Ludy's work actually stands up well to them.<br />What the Ludy's have laid out is really more of a philosophy on living that, when applied correctly, encompasses your approach to dating and relationships. WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY is not about rules. As chapter four nicely explains, rules don't ultimately save you from temptation and making wrong choices. Only a full love-relationship with God can do that, and it is that exact thing that the Ludy's set as the foundation for their approach. Sounds basic and obvious, but when you see how many people are stuck in the cycle of bad relationships based upon sensual passion, physical attraction, or legalistic rulemaking it becomes clear that this approach is anything but basic. In fact, it's quite radical.<br />WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY, then, is about giving God the &quot;pen,&quot; of your life -- your entire life, not just your love life. The Ludy's do a fantastic job of describing why this matters, how it makes a difference, and what a life married to this choice will look like. Their writing is God-centered yet practical and very balanced. I'll say that again, because it's important -- their approach is extremely balanced, and that's what I admire most about it. The only complaint I have is that some of the dialogue in the book is a bit goofy (they use exclamation points a lot!), but because the substance of the book was so solid I was able to look past that.<br />If you are looking for a book that will help you not only make right dating choices but transform you entire lifestyle so that you end up in a truly happy, fulfilling and lasting marriage then WHEN GOD WRITES YOUR LOVE STORY is for you. Is it the &quot;ultimate&quot; approach? If not then it's sure close. It is one of the three best books on the subject that I have read (the othersbeing BOY MEETS GIRL and BOUNDARIES IN DATING). Read all three if you can. I give it FIVE STARS.	2001-12-09
US	47816597	RWV64VPMJAB0P	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	5	693	819	N	N	Radically Refreshing &amp; Biblically Grounded	John Eldredge's WILD AT HEART is one of the most refreshing and radical books that I have read. Why are so many men unhappy, un-fulfilled, in jobs they hate, and in marriages that are dead? WILD AT HEART seeks to answer those questions and restore the passion and God-given masculinity that so many men in today's world, and church, are missing. <br />Some wrongly criticize WILD AT HEART, believing Eldredge is offering up macho, dim-witted masculine bravado, or they believe that this work will be a free pass for men to leave marriages in the dust on a search for lost dreams. Eldredge will have none of that, and says himself in the book that such men are &quot;deceived about what it is they really want, what they are made for.&quot; Don't be fooled by the various criticisms that ignore Eldredge's real meaning. A real man's desires are shaped by the Lord.<br />Instead, WILD AT HEART is about restoring a Godly dream in the soul of a man. A desire to truly be a man, rather than a softened-neutered-nice-but-restrained-guy that the world has somehow dictated that Christian males should be. Nice men may be socially acceptable but in creating them we have snuffed out the very fire that God would have us fan in our pursuit of Him.<br />This is an attempt to re-kindle that flame. To restore the three longings that are at the core of each man: a battle to fight, an adventure to live, and a beauty to rescue.  Eldredge's arguments are firmly planted in Biblical principles, as well as his past personal experience. His writing style is very easy going, and he uses a lot of illustrations from popular culture, which makes the reading fun. I believe this book is an awesome wake up call to the church. For too long men have weakened themselves by ignoring our God-created passions. WILD AT HEART shows us how to restore them, and challenges us to take the right risks and live the adventure. It may be a bit scary (after all, did God give Abraham a risk-free offer on his call to leave Ur?),but there's no other way to reach the real fulfillment that God would have us find. I'm not a big fan of &quot;men's books,&quot; but this is one that I am so glad that I did not miss. You shouldn't either. FIVE STARS.	2001-11-01
US	47816597	RCPSHEWR7GV6V	0849943124	955610690	Blessed Child	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Another Thumbs Up For Dekker	BLESSED CHILD is an excellent novel that both inspires and thrills. Teaming with Bill Bright for inspiration, Ted Dekker shows that he's the real deal (in this, his third book) and should he continue to put out work like this I expect to see him around for a long time.<br />BLESSED CHILD is basically a thriller with supernatural elements and romantic overtones. It takes you on a journey from the wilderness of Ethiopia all the way to Pasadena, California. In the process we meet and begin to love a little boy who exudes innocence, the love of God, and great manifestations of His power. We never question that this power comes from God (as some in the story do) because we are allowed glimpses of his heart, so the real conflict lies in how this power is accepted by the world around him. The road is an exciting one and Dekker does an admirable job of making sure that he paints the trip in vivid spiritual colors.<br />This is another one of those rare novels that works on two levels -- it's a good read and it will challenge you in your Christian walk. Bill Bright's afterward notes that he believes a good novel on biblical themes can reach many more people than a normal theological work (similar to how Jesus' use of parables was so outstanding). BLESSED CHILD is a good example of how that can be true. FOUR STARS.	2001-10-23
US	47816597	RDHPQ6MT0D1I	0385502745	168004040	Soul Survivor: Why I am Still a Christian	Books	5	95	98	N	N	A Powerful Personal Journey	SOUL SURVIVOR is a big departure from Philip Yancey's usual style of book. It reads more like a pseudo-biography -- both for him and for the thirteen people who have most influenced him in his walk of faith. Much of the territory here will be familiar to long-time readers of Yancey's, but it works because of the different way it is presented.<br />Each chapter is devoted to an individual. Always readable, SOUL SURVIVOR reaches beyond that into more powerful air when the subject becomes more weighty (read: controversial). Chapters on Martin Luther King Jr., Paul Brandt, Mahatma Gandhi, and C. Everett Koop, in particular, I found the most enjoyable and enlightening. Yancey tells their tales in an honest manner, recognizing their shortcomings, and in doing so makes their examples all the more powerful. <br />As I read his (and their) story, I had to marvel at the grace of God, because Yancey has come a long way. No other person, outside of my parents, has had a greater influence on my Christian walk than Philip Yancey. Realizing that this same man was once a blatant racist (among other flaws which he is open about) amazes me. It also gives me hope, as it should his other readers, for if God can take a man and change him this much (using the influence of various authors and historical figures) it should help us to see the possibilities of what God can do in our own lives, as well as recognize the effect that our lives can have upon others.<br />SOUL SURVIVOR is not my favorite Philip Yancey book, nor is it his best (that title still belongs to WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE). But it is a fantastic, personal journey that I am so pleased to have been allowed to be a part of. If you are disillusioned by the institution of the church here is a book that will help you to see past those flaws to recognize how God really works through individual men and women. And that is what the church is really all about. FOUR 1/2 STARS.	2001-10-18
US	47816597	R1X7BBG8O25NP3	0664224199	999679637	The Gospel According to The Simpsons:  The Spiritual Life of the World's Most Animated Family	Books	5	73	82	N	N	Finding God In Unexpected Places	In THE GOSPEL ACCORDING THE THE SIMPSONS, Mark Pinsky shows us that it's possible to find God in some of the most unexpected places. Originally, The Simpsons was largely eschewed by the evangelical Christian community, because of Bart's rebellious ways. But as the show grew older, and the focus turned more towards Homer, Pinsky shows that people of faith who weren't watching were missing out on some of the most &quot;Christian&quot; television around. Seriously.<br />The Simpsons not only contains blatantly Christian characters but it explores issues of faith that other shows would never touch with a 50 foot pole. Ned Flanders, though ragged on by Homer a lot, is perhaps the best depiction of an evangelical-type Christian in mainstream television history. Lisa Simpson seems to present the side of the social Gospel. Marge's real faith in God also shines through. Though characters with faith are often made fun of, in the end the show always seems to prove that the joke is on the joker, not the jokee. The Simpsons isn't trying to evangelize, but it is surprisingly fair and evenhanded in its presentations, and with how it deals out the humor. In its history the show has dealt with subjects like cults, hypocricy, why God allows evil, hell, and forgiveness.<br />THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO THE SIMPSONS surprised me, made me laugh out loud multiple times each chapter, and was just an all-around enjoyable read. The picture of Christianity that is presented isn't perfect. The writers stumble on theological points many times (such as grace vs. works). This will happen when you're not a theologian and, in most cases, not even a Christian. But in spite of that, Pinsky shows that the Springfield world of Homer is one that is rich in faith and religious devotion. For Christians who can let their hair down and roll with a few jokes, The Simpsons proves that even in the midst of our post-Christian culture, in Hollywood, and even on the Fox Network, God can be found if you dare to look for Him. As Homer might say, &quot;Mmmmm.... a FIVE STAR book...&quot;for Him. As Homer might say, &quot;Mmmmm.... a FIVE STAR book...&quot;	2001-10-18
US	47816597	RKTCNVNEO0LG7	0849916879	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	41	47	N	N	A True Classic, Updated &amp; Readable	I was a LES MISERABLES rookie, having not seen the musical nor read the book. It was always something that interested me, but for various reasons I never took the plunge with Hugo's classic. Then I saw this new version of the story. Jim Reimann, who previously wrote updated (modern English) versions of MY UTMOST FOR HIS HIGHEST and STREAMS IN THE DESERT, went through LES MIS and streamlined the story. He did it because he recognized that the book is a tad daunting in size for many of today's readers, so he removed a lot of the extras that Hugo wrote in and streamlined the book down to the basic story -- being careful to retain the essence and spirit of Hugo's words and meaning. His results are solid.<br />LES MISERABLES is one of the greatest stories of the triumph of grace over justice without mercy ever written. Grace can be hard to give, for it goes against our human nature, but Hugo shows, in the story of the life of Jean Valjean, how an act of grace bestowed upon one who does not deserve it can truly transform. When Valjean is saved from the police by the priest whom he robbed it is an epic moment that causes him to succumb to the power of God. He gives up his life of crime and does his best to live in a way that honors the gift that the priest gave him. What follows is an epic story that even more clearly illustrates the power of grace and love, set against a historic backdrop of revolutionary France. Coincidences are many, but the power of the story does not suffer. I know, for one thing, that I will never look at a pair of candlesticks the same way again.<br />This version of LES MISERABLES is an easy read. The translation is a simple one, and therefore a quick read for a serious reader. In that respect, Reimann succeeded at his quest of making LES MIS accessible to a whole new generation who otherwise might miss out on this classic. Since I never would've read the longer translation, this adaptation was a real blessing. FOUR &amp; 1/2 STARS.	2001-09-27
US	47816597	R9VLE2QVWRX3D	0849942918	824596446	When Heaven Weeps (Martyr's Song, Book 2)	Books	4	45	45	N	N	Most Powerful Once You Realize...	WHEN HEAVEN WEEPS is one of the more powerful novels that I've read in the past few years. The second book of The Martyr's Song series, it is basically a 20th century re-telling of the Biblical story of Hosea. <br />Jan Jovic was a Bosnian soldier in World War II. His troop happened upon a small village where the people were led by a godly man name Father Michael. A confrontation between Michael and Karadzic, Jan's commanding officer, escalated into a terrible tragedy where Michael and a small child named Nadia show Jan the true meaning of the love of Christ in the sacrifices that they make. Jan's eyes are opened and his life will never be the same.<br />Flash foreword to the sixties and Atlanta, Georgia. Jan has written a story retelling the story of Nadia and Father Michael entitled THE DANCE OF THE DEAD. The book became a best seller and Jan has turned his life into a ministry, desiring to show the world what the love of Christ truly means. About to be engaged to his manager, Karen, his life is turned directly upside down one day when he happens upon a junkie named Helen, who is fleeing from her lover (who also happens to be a very dangerous underworld figure). What ensues basically follows the plot of Hosea. Jan unavoidably falls for Helen and Helen responds in kind but she continues to be drawn to her past, and thus becomes unfaithful to Jan multiple times over. <br />In Hosea, God commanded Hosea to take a prostitute as his wife and to love her. The prostitute's unfaithfulness to Hosea was a graphic example of Israel's unfaithfulness to their lover, God. In WHEN HEAVEN WEEPS, the character of Helen represents each of us -- and therein lies the power of the story. WHEN HEAVEN WEEPS is remarkable in that it is quite graphic in its description of sin. All of Helen's dirty laundry is laid out before us, and as we read we wonder how anyone can be so callus in their regard for the love shown to them. But the detail is necessary, because when we realize that Helen isus the effect is ten times more powerful than if her sins had been glossed over (Ivena's explanation on page 263 is the key). As the story plays out Jan and Helen engage in a conflict that will demonstrate again what the ultimate love of Christ is, but also show that true love demands true sacrifice.<br />WHEN HEAVEN WEEPS, then, stands as a triumphant work. It is not a perfectly written book (and that is why I cannot give it a full five stars). But it is very readable, and any literary criticisms that I have can easily be laid aside in light of the power of the message contained here. This is a rare thriller that will have you turning the pages like mad but also challenge your faith walk with God at the deepest levels, if you choose to let it. A solid FOUR STARS.	2001-09-20
US	47816597	R13Z1NP01M3ZU3	0842313079	914537700	An Echo in the Darkness (Mark of the Lion #2)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	This Book Will Change You	Francine Rivers is arguably Christian fiction's finest writer, and THE MARK OF THE LION trilogy is her crown jewel. They are my favorite works of fiction -- ever. While other authors may sell more books at times, none can WRITE like Rivers.<br />The MARK trilogy is set in the Roman Empire, shortly after the fall of Jerusalem. Using a Hebrew slave girl (Hadassah) and a German gladiator (Atretes; think the film GLADIATOR) as the main characters, three books are crafted around themes of faith, redemption, forgiveness, and sacrifice. Rivers is one of the best at writing characters and those that she creates here are absolutely convincing -- flawed and heroic on multiple layers, with developmental conflicts that relate to and parallel modern times almost seamlessly. AN ECHO IN THE DARKNESS, the middle book of the series, picks up immediately after A VOICE IN THE WIND's climax. Where A VOICE focused mainly on Hadassah and her struggle to stand for her faith, AN ECHO's main conflicts surround the Valerian family (whom Hadassah served) and their responses to the sacrificial price that Hadassah paid. The resulting journeys towards redemption play out wonderfully and, as the book progresses, become more and more moving. Though A VOICE is my favorite of the series, from a literary standpoint AN ECHO is probably the best.<br />You can read AN ECHO on its own, but you must read A VOICE first, and you might as well order the entire series because once you read one you will have to read them all. These books will not only grab hold of you and demand to be finished but they will challenge you to take your walk with God to a much deeper level. No other novels have ever affected me so profoundly. Forget the LEFT BEHIND series and invest in a true Christian classic. FIVE STARS.	2001-09-13
US	47816597	R1D5BE5LP4FCAV	080075784X	507532540	The Birth Order Connection: Finding and Keeping the Love of Your Life	Books	5	48	54	N	N	Surprisingly Interesting and Useful	I picked up THE BIRTH ORDER CONNECTION with a bit of skepticism. How can the order of your birth have anything to do with finding the right person to marry? It almost made me want to laugh out loud. A few chapters into the book convinced me I was wrong, and I was hooked. Dr. Leman has laid out a fantastic and pragmatic guidebook of principles and steps based upon the order of your birth that really can help you find a more compatible mate (to achieve, as he amusingly puts it, \\"couple power\\").<br />Leman bases his thesis on the belief that your total family environment, not just your parents, shapes the kind of person you become. Firsts, middles, lasts, and onlies all have certain strengths and weaknesses that are determined by the roles that they have to play with their siblings. As a result, each birth type has a specific, better match with another birth type. Leman would've lost me if he would've played hard and fast with his rules, but he recognizes that their are exceptions. Sometimes, for example, middle children can take on the role of firstborns, depending on age gaps, the sex of the eldest, etc. It's all a bit complicated, but Leman does an excellent job of explaining the details and why it all works. The whole idea of birth order having such an effect on personality development became incredibly intriguing, but we must move on.<br />So what does this all have to do with relationships? As already stated, Leman believes that each birth position has a better match with another birth position. The strengths of one will counter the weaknesses of another, equaling a better match. Also, understanding birth order can help make relationships and marriages stronger because, as with personality types, to understand birth order is to better understand your spouse. Finally, Leman lays out practical paths to follow in your dating relationships. Asking seven specific questions, for example, can help you determine if you really are compatible with the person you are seeing. Recognizing red flags will help you avoid a life of marital misery. And he lists important reasons to and not to consider when you marry.<br />I've read quite a few books on relationships. Some are good (BOY MEETS GIRL, BOUNDARIES IN DATING) and some are not so good. THE BIRTH ORDER CONNECTION surprised me by being one of the best. Leman's ideas are not set in stone rules, but they are outstanding principles and guidelines that can help you make wise decisions in choosing someone to be with. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up. It's well worth the ... investment. FIVE STARS.	2001-09-13
US	47816597	R3O5UT6YAU6CBT	0764226045	750453702	Out of Mormonism: A Woman's True Story	Books	4	197	252	N	N	A Good Resource	OUT OF MORMONISM tells the autobiographical story of Judy Robertson's experience in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. The book exists to lend a personal face to the plethora of Mormonism resources that are out there.<br />Robertson's story is worth reading. She grew up in the (orthodox) Christian church but because of a lack of Biblical grounding she found herself drawn into Mormonism with her family, thanks to the LDS's emphasis on family and morals. At first it was a blissful life, but things began to sour when some of the deeper truths about Mormon doctrine were learned, and when her and her husband were sealed in the temple ceremony (an experience that shocked her to her core). Eventually she became so disillusioned with the discrepancies between Mormon doctrine and the Bible that she found the courage to leave the church, and she now runs and outreach to Mormons with her husband.<br />If you know someone who is struggling with some of Mormonism's teachings, this might be a good resource to give them. It's pretty even-handed and not antagonistic (unlike some other books on this church). The only issues I take with it are literary. Robertson isn't the best writer and as a result her story, which should've been profoundly moving, seems a little forced and impersonal. It's a powerful testimony, but it could've been told better if a different writer would've handled it. A similar book, BEYOND MORMONISM, by James Spencer, I found to be much more effective, personal, and moving. I would look for BEYOND MORMONISM first, if pursuing a book of this nature, but OUT OF MORMONISM is not a bad choice by any means. It speaks the truth and does so in a straight-foreword and loving manner, and hopefully it will be a powerful tool to reach the lost for Christ. THREE 1/2 STARS.	2001-09-06
US	47816597	R2EQ06JI4OP6P	0310201195	745726814	Blood of Heaven (Fire of Heaven Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Thriller	BLOOD OF HEAVEN is an above-average thriller that should please fans looking for suspense and supernatural intrigue. <br />The book's concept is based upon DNA research and, thus, is quite contemporary. Bill Myers seems to have done his homework, since the factual elements of the story come across as well researched (though now a bit dated, since the mapping of the genome has been completed). The story starts fast, introducing all the key players early and effectively, and only picks up the pace from there. I was engrossed from the very beginning. Unfortunately, I don't believe that Myers pulled of the finish as effectively as another more experienced author might have. The plot seems to unravel a bit about two-thirds of the way through, and though the resolution works I felt a bit of a letdown when I was finished.<br />That being said, it shouldn't prevent anyone from picking this one up. On the whole, BLOOD OF HEAVEN is a great read. Myers really is a good writer (he proved that with ELI), and my complaint isn't nearly serious enough to warrant a warn-off. Myers also effectively wraps in some powerful messages and warnings to today's church, and astute Christians would do well to pick up and ponder on them (in particular, the \\"law without mercy\\" thread).  If you are a fan of authors like Frank Peretti, Sigmund Brouwer, or even Michael Crichton, you will probably be interested in this book (which is only the first in the FIRE OF HEAVEN trilogy). It's a fun, quick read that will have leave you wanting more.	2001-08-19
US	47816597	R35JB8S3X85KKG	0849911435	665315874	In The Grip Of Grace	Books	4	24	24	N	N	One of Lucado's Best	IN THE GRIP OF GRACE tackles one of the most important stakes of the Christian faith, and one that many people have the hardest time truly comprehending and accepting as well. \\"Can anything separate us from the love Christ has for us,\\" Max Lucado asks. Though we may say that the answer is no, in reality many of us live as though the answer is yes. <br />Lucado breaks us down into four groups: the hut-building hedonist, the fault-finding judgmentalist, the rock-stacking legalist, and the grace-driven Christian. One disregards God and indulges self, ignoring their need for grace. One tries to distract God by comparing themselves to other \\"worse\\" sinners, believing that grace is always needed by someone else. Others try to save themselves, to make themselves right before God by works; thus rejecting grace. But the grace-driven Christian trusts and seeks after God's grace, realizing that there really is nothing we can do to earn our salvation but accept it as a truly free gift.<br />As is typical of a Max Lucado book, IN THE GRIP OF GRACE is an easy, folksy read. It may tackle a heavy issue, but Lucado never wades too deep into theological discourse, preferring to use illustrations instead. Thus, IN THE GRIP OF GRACE is an excellent read for both new Christians and those who simply desire a book that will help them better understand their position with God. IN THE GRIP OF GRACE never reaches the heights that Philip Yancey's WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE does, but it stands as one of Max Lucado's best and most universally relevant works. FOUR STARS.	2001-06-26
US	47816597	R36OO99O6IQ767	0553574159	611556484	The Paradise Snare (Star Wars, The Han Solo Trilogy #1) (Book 1)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	SW Books Don't Get Any Better	I've read all of the books in the Star Wars expanded universe so far and I can safely say that the Han Solo Trilogy, by A.C. Crispin, is the crown jewel.<br />In book one, THE PARADISE SNARE, we are introduced to a young Han, living life on the edge as a lackey to a Corellian criminal, Garris Shrike. Solo escapes, thanks to the sacrifice of his lone friend, a Wookie named Dewlanna, and is able to get a job piloting for a religious organization on the planet Ylesia. This job sets the stage for the rest of the Solo story: his first love (Bria), his connection to the Hutts, his Academy days, the Chewbacca and Lando entrances, etc. Crispin's writing style is engrossing--she writes action well and has the touch with characters and relationships. Han's back-story is filled in completely; once you've read these stories you will understand his character, his motivation, and any/all references to his past that have ever been made. You'll want to pick up the entire trilogy, since once you read book one you'll have to continue the story. <br />Some Star Wars novels don't work because they are too obscure. Some are not well written. Some are written be people who don't seem to understand the Star Wars universe or its characters (ie. THE CRYSTAL STAR). Crispin deftly avoids all of these pitfalls. It is difficult to write a trilogy where the whole world already knows the ending (since we know Han meets Luke and falls in love with Leia), but Crispin was able to grab and hold my interest as well as my emotion the entire time. The Han Solo Trilogy will appeal to hard core Star Wars novel fans as well as fans who up till now have only seen the movies. They are the best that Lucas Books has to offer. FIVE STARS.	2001-06-08
US	47816597	RDISZNVV548PC	080075445X	67041439	Personality Plus: How to Understand Others by Understanding Yourself	Books	5	123	126	N	N	Outstanding Resource	PERSONALITY PLUS is one of the most enlightening books that I have ever read. Florence Littauer shows how to determine what type of temperament you fall into: Popular Sanguine, Powerful Choleric, Perfect Melancholy, or Peaceful Phlegmatic. Understanding that, we are then shown the strengths and weaknesses that accompany each of them. Littauer then teaches, gently and humorously, how we can improve ourselves and our relationships by simply recognizing and accepting the temperaments (in ourselves and others). For once we understand that the other temperaments are different from us because that is simply how they are built, and not because they wish to annoy us or make things difficult, it changes the way we look at and deal with people. As I read this book it was like a lightbulb popped on in my head--difficult people in my life were suddenly seen in a new light and dark motives I had attributed to them disappeared. And our relationships improved.<br />I highly recommend this book. It will help you in friendships, with family, with romance, and at work. I recommend it even more for those who are in positions of leadership. Understanding yourself and then understanding those around you will radically change your life interactions for the better. FIVE STARS.	2001-06-08
US	47816597	R37BKJH1MU2LRT	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	4	62	64	N	N	The Possibilities	I had heard about this book quite awhile ago but hesitated at picking it up, since fads tend to make me wary. I eventually received it as a gift--an enthusiastic gift--and so I sat down and decided to see what the buzz was all about.<br />After reading THE PRAYER OF JABEZ I can see why it is so popular. The core message of the book is appealing, both to those who understand it (and are seeking God's will, and holiness) and to those who don't (and are seeking personal gain). Wilkinson immediately makes it clear that the prayer of Jabez is not about selfish greed (and has nothing to do with the name-it-claim-it preachers). He states &quot;when we seek God's blessing as the ultimate value in life, we are throwing ourselves entirely into the river of His will and power and purposes for us. All our other needs become secondary to what we really want--which is to become wholly immersed in what God is trying to do in us, through us, and around us for His glory.&quot; So right away we can see that many of the superficial criticisms of this book here are misguided and inaccurate.<br />I admire THE PRAYER OF JABEZ for the importance it places on prayer. Prayer is a vital element in the lives of all Christians and anything that encourages more time with God is a plus. I also applaud how Wilkinson challenges us to take a step of faith in our prayer lives and move out of our comfort zones. Praying this prayer, and having it answered in the affirmative, would be a fantastic and desirable thing in the life of any Christ follower.<br />The one problem that I do have is that God doesn't always answer our prayers in the affirmative. Sometimes he says &quot;wait,&quot; and sometimes he says &quot;no.&quot; A simple glance at the Bible into the lives of men like Job, Paul, and Peter shows us that is true. Wilkinson should've dealt more realistically with that possibility. While I'm pleased to see how God has moved in his life and answered his prayer, not all of us will have that same experience. Disappointment with God, and dealing with God's silence, is a very real reality in the lives of many Christians; even those who would faithfully pray a prayer such as this.<br />That being recognized, THE PRAYER OF JABEZ does do a great job of showing us the POSSIBILITIES of a more focused and faithful prayer life, and for that it should be applauded. To complete the picture, I recommend reading it along side Philip Yancey's REACHING FOR THE INVISIBLE GOD. I give it Four Stars.xperience. Disappointment with God, and dealing with God's silence, is a very real reality in the lives of many Christians; even those who would faithfully pray a prayer such as this.<br />That being recognized, THE PRAYER OF JABEZ does do a great job of showing us the POSSIBILITIES of a more focused and faithful prayer life, and for that it should be applauded. To complete the picture, I recommend reading it along side Philip Yancey's REACHING FOR THE INVISIBLE GOD. I give it Four Stars.	2001-04-29
US	47816597	R1E5CHUDBBP0QU	0736900950	842465219	Barefoot on Barbed Wire	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Beautifully Told Journey	Cindy Morgan has long been one of my favorite musical artists and she is easily my favorite songwriter. After reading her first book, BAREFOOT ON BARBED WIRE, I now see that her talent for writing extends beyond the notes and lyrics of those songs. <br />BAREFOOT ON BARBED WIRE is not your stereotypical popular-artist-writes-a-book case. In most of those cases I find the book sorely lacking (save the gem from Margaret Becker, WITH NEW EYES). There are the pre-requisite tales of the tour found in these pages, but here those stories enhance the main themes rather than define them. BAREFOOT is, as the sub-title describes, \\"A Journey Out Of Fear Into Freedom.\\"  Cindy, in the beginning, honestly admits her life-long struggle with fear, which at one time gripped her life so tightly it made her sick and immobile. BAREFOOT relates her story from childhood to motherhood-how she let her fears dictate her life's direction, even into her recording career, to how she has been able to begin to conquer those fears through the help of loved ones and a new understanding of God's grace and what it means to put your faith in Him.<br />The story she relates is inspiring and heartwarming, even if you are not one who has the same intense struggle that Cindy dealt with. What makes this story great, however, is the way Cindy tells it. There is a uniqueness to Cindy's songwriting that I can spot a mile away. The best of her songs are filled with poetic imagery and style, honesty, vulnerability, and femininity. Those same qualities are manifested in BAREFOOT as well (which one can discover from the title of the book alone).  I found myself becoming totally immersed in the settings that Cindy painted with her pen; almost being able to feel the southern humidity, \\"hanging in the air as thick as honey.\\" I felt as if I, too, knew Mrs. Romine, Samuel and Roho, Hollis, and her father, Cova. As I read I found myself grinning at times, wanting to shed a tear at others, and always empathetic. <br />Cindy is clearly a talented writer-musically or in this more traditional format. Her ability to draw in the reader, combined with her willingness to bare her soul and relate her experiences in stark honesty, give her message that much greater an impact. BAREFOOT is a beautifully told, human tale. It's message is one of freedom from fear, into faith, but it is a message absent of Christian clich or pretense. Because of that, one can only hope that this is but the first of many books that Cindy will lend her talent and experiences to. FIVE STARS.	2001-04-17
US	47816597	R26WOHE0S2199R	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Joy For Children and Adults	I first read THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA when I was seven years old. The stories of Aslan, Peter, Lucy, Eustace, Caspian, and Reepicheep captivated and enchanted my little mind. I loved these books, and I read and re-read each of them until the spines began to crumble.<br />I put the books away in my early teen years, perhaps because I viewed them as childish but mainly because I had too many other things to occupy my time with. I am now 26 years old, and have a fairly decent library. Luckily for me, that library still contains THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA. I dug them out again last month for the first time in years and was thrilled to see that they were just as fantastic and beautiful as when I first loved them so many years ago.<br />C.S. Lewis is one of my favorite authors, for his non-fiction work alone. But the man had a knack for storytelling as well. NARNIA brims with incredible stories, settings, and characters. These books are truly fantasy, but non-fans of that genre won't even blink. Lewis writes in a way that will captivate the wide-eyed child (e.g. Aslan's relationship with the children, and in particular Lucy) and bring back the wonder for an older reader too. There is meaning behind these stories. Simply moral at times, it often contains a deeper spiritual significance; particularly in THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE and THE LAST BATTLE, which are true allegories. TLTWATW is probably my favorite of the seven, but I love the Caspian story line almost as much, with THE VOYAGE OF THE DAWN TREADER running a close number two.<br />THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA is classic literature. If you haven't read them in awhile, set aside an evening and pull them out. These will be one of the first, and best, gifts that I give to my children. FIVE STARS.	2001-04-17
US	47816597	R1CJ14RPS9IDSF	0736902813	48775323	Ccm Presents: The 100 Greatest Albums in Christian Music	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Great Read About Great Albums	CCM first published a list of the 100 Greatest albums in their 20th anniversary issue back in 1998. For this book they went back and re-worked the original list, adding newer deserving albums and considering oversights from the original 100.<br />As with any list of greats there will be controversy. Newer Christian music fans will wonder why some of their favorites aren't included. Conservative fans will debate whether groups like U2 should appear (they place two albums). Mainstream fans will puzzle over the inclusion of some projects that had more critical significance than popular acceptance. And fans of specific artists will debate whether the selected albums really are the best that artist had to offer. Yet in spite of all of that, I can't argue with too many of the choices. Most of the true greats are here, and any criticisms I can offer are more minor than serious.<br />Some albums I would've liked to have seen included are Whiteheart's FREEDOM, Michael W Smith's i 2 (EYE), and Susan Ashton's WAKENED BY THE WIND.<br />With each selection comes a write up that summarizes the historical context and significance of the project more than reviews it. The contributors are all heavyweights, like John W. Styll and Brian Q. Newcomb, and their essays were interesting and nostalgic. My only real complaint is that they didn't write enough. I would've loved to have seen some hard core research and information presented, a la the work of Fred Bronson in his Billboard books. Sometimes they don't even fill the given page. But that aside, this is a fantastic resource for long time CCM fans as well as newer fans who desire to gain a better understanding of the history of the genre. Now if we could only get the record companies to re-release many of these projects that are out of print. Four and a half stars.	2001-03-10
US	47816597	RCVOBBWAN02I2	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Readable But Disappointing	As a long time Grisham fan I was pleased to finally have the chance to pick up THE BRETHREN. I had heard quite a few negative remarks about the book, but none of his past work had failed to deliver so I was optimistic that this would do the same. Unfortunatly, here Grisham's streak of success has come to an end.<br />THE BRETHREN has a fascinating idea at its core. The scam that the Brethren execute, its implications, as well as the presidential sub-plot, are all good seed for a solid page-turner. But THE BRETHREN has a fatal flaw in its soil: the lack of a true hero. There is no single person in the story whom the reader is able to sympathize with, care about, latch onto, or root for. As a result, half way through the book I found myself continuing to read not because I cared about anyone but only to see how Grisham would resolve the conflict. And that brings us to the book's second flaw: the resolution is utterly disappointing. When I finished the story I actually set it down and said to myself &quot;that's it?&quot;<br />In the end, THE BRETHREN is readable. Grisham's writing moves along at a good pace and he does throw in some solid hooks every now and then. But its flaws are much too grave and eventually suck away any momentum that Grisham is able to build. THE BRETHREN replaces THE RUNAWAY JURY as my least favorite of Mr. Grisham's books, and does so by a wide margin. If you're a fan of his you'll probably want to complete your collection with this purchase, but otherwise do yourself a favor and buy THE TESTAMENT or THE PARTNER. Two and a half stars.	2001-01-01
US	47816597	R1XL3GNS4JC6MH	0060633158	101171164	The Story of Christianity, Volume 1: The Early Church to the Dawn of the Reformation (Story of Christianity)	Books	5	62	65	N	N	History Comes Alive	In THE STORY OF CHRISTIANITY, divided into two volumes, Justo Gonzales does a fantastic job of bringing the history of the church alive. His writing style is engaging and the text tends to read more like a novel at times than a typical textbook. And for me that is what this was: a textbook for a Church History class. But by the end of the semester I found myself reading more for pleasure than class requirements. <br />Gonzales focuses on the high points for the most part because these books are surveys. In particular, there is a greater focus on men like Constantine, Augustine, Luther, and Calvin. He is fair in his research and opinions, and no matter what background you come from you'll find that he presents the facts in an honest and unbiased (as possible) fashion. Coming from an evangelical background I learned much about the roots of that movement and was also very pleased to find a wealth of information on the eastern churches, liberal protestantism, scholasticism, etc. The development of the church in early Latin America, Africa, and Asia is also given attention. Gonzales covers all of the bases.<br />THE STORY OF CHRISTIANITY is a fine resource for those who wish to gain a firm understanding of the history of the Christian church or for anyone who desires to have a quality resource on the subject available to them. For student, layperson, or teacher, this is an excellent buy. Five Stars.	2000-12-15
US	47816597	R25O82J3ZEWJ9M	0849938635	365432395	The Oath	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pure, Dripping Suspense	THE OATH is about as close to the &quot;horror&quot; genre as Christian fiction gets. In the backwoods town of Hyde River, somewhere in the northwest, strange things are happening and people are disappearing. Steve Benson's brother falls victim and, when the death is chalked up to a bear attack, out of disbelief Steve begins to examine the evidence with more scrutiny. What he finds is utterly shocking. Hyde River has a secret. A secret that binds the town into what can only be described as an chilling pact with pure evil. And now that he knows what it is, he must be silenced.<br />Using graphic imagery that at times borders on shocking, Peretti unfolds a monsterously suspensful tale that will grip your heart till the very last page. The faint of heart may wish to pass this one over, but for those who love suspense this is a winner. It's a dark, forboding story, but in the end that darkness only makes the Light shine brighter. THE OATH gets five stars.	2000-12-14
US	47816597	R350CJR2KNV2ZC	1576830160	799449705	Love Your God with All Your Mind: The Role of Reason in the Life of the Soul	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A True Must-Read For the Church	Have you ever wished that the church wasn't looked down upon in intellectual circles, and that when the average person thought of trustworthy sources for ideas and wise men/women that it was Christians who would first come to mind? I have, and so has J.P. Moreland.  In LOVE YOUR GOD WITH ALL YOUR MIND, Moreland writes a groundbreaking book, presenting a strong case for the role of the rational mind in the Christian life. He gives background on how the church has strayed from incorporating our intellect into our worship and faith and even our work, and then demonstrates how this needs to change, and why that need is so urgent. He outlines how to develop the Christian mind and shows how reason and faith can and should work hand in hand. And he closes by giving his vision of what the church, incorporating these principles, might look like. <br />This is a fantastic book that is prophetic in its urgancy. Moreland's writing is utterly appealing to the rational and even skeptical mind, but the message here is for the layperson as well as the academic. It should be required reading at every Christian college and seminary, and the church would do well to give its message attention at the pulpit and in Sunday School's. Five Stars.	2000-12-14
US	47816597	RSY0USSXOM4KQ	0842377506	240212874	A Voice in the Wind (Mark of the Lion #1)	Books	5	23	28	N	N	An Instant Classic	In a short time Francine Rivers has become one of our finest Christian authors, and THE MARK OF THE LION trilogy is her crown jewel. Quite simply, these are my favorite works of fiction - ever. While other authors may sell more books at times, none can WRITE like Rivers.<br />The trilogy is set in the Roman Empire, shortly after the fall of Jerusalem. Using a Hebrew slave girl (Hadassah) and a German gladiator (Atretes; think the movie Gladiator) as the main characters, three books are crafted around themes of faith, redemption and sacrifice. Rivers is one of the best at writing characters and the ones she creates here are absolutely convincing -- flawed and heroic on multiple layers, with developmental conflicts that relate to and parallel modern times almost seemlessly. A VOICE IN THE WIND, the first and best of the series, lays the groundwork for the trilogy but stands tall on its own merits as well. The character of Hadassah, in particular, shines most bright in this part of the trilogy. You can read it on its own, but I guarantee that you will have to order the rest of the series when you're through. <br />These books will not only grab hold of you and demand to be finished but they will challenge you to take your walk with God to a much deeper level. Do not read this series unless you want to be changed. No other stories have every affected me in such a deep way. Forget the LEFT BEHIND series and invest in a true Christian classic. Five Stars.	2000-12-06
US	47816597	R1P25IM73MR5P1	0310235316	337454298	Reaching for the Invisible God	Books	5	82	84	N	N	What It Means To Know God	&quot;How do I relate to a God who is invisible when I'm never quite sure he's there,&quot; Philip Yancey asks.<br />One of my favorite things about this man is that he shows no fear in asking the tough questions that many in Christian circles would prefer to pretend were non-existant. The enigma of how physical beings can know a spiritual God is one that has plagued humankind since the fall of Adam. In life's most difficult moments God more often than not still remains silent and apart. Why does this happen? Is this normal, and does the fact that I feel so distant mean that there's something missing in my relationship with Him? These are some of the hard questions that Yancey tackles in REACHING FOR THE INVISIBLE GOD. Some of the material here was reminiscent of DISAPPOINTMENT WITH GOD, since both deal with faith in the midst of hardship. But here Yancey elaborates and breaks new ground, emphasizing the journey and nature of a maturing faith in God.<br />Perhaps the most helpful thing for me about this book was how he dealt with that questions of &quot;feeling&quot; and intimacy, on a personal level. Most Christians usually have at least one &quot;mountain top&quot; experience in their life where they feel a deep sense of God and His love. But those feelings always fade and eventually the mountain top gives way to hills and valleys. Yet for some reason we tend believe that a person who is walking closely with God will also FEEL close to Him. And when we lose that feeling and live without it for some time questions can arise; especially in times of crisis. Yancey carefully peels back those misconceptions and replaces them with a realistic picture of what it truely means to know and walk with our unseen God. His words shatter the myth of feelings and I found an incredible sense of renewal and freedom, knowing that what I was feeling, or not feeling, was in no way abnormal or wrong. <br />In a modern culture of Christianity that too often emphasizes emotions, here isa book that will tear away the false conceptions and breathe life back into those who may be disillusioned. Here you will find insight and answers about the nature of God, man, and what true faith on our part consists of. While WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE continues to be Yancey's high water mark, REACHING FOR THE INVISIBLE GOD is a powerful work that once again showcase's his incredible ability to summarize and present the profound in ways that anyone can understand and absorb. Five Stars.	2000-11-19
US	47816597	R1D6IY4EWGRXWJ	0310218039	810531498	Eli	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Radical and Challenging Fiction	In ELI, best-selling author Bill Myers asks the question, &quot;what if Jesus had been born 2000 years later?&quot; The concept is familiar to readers of the book JOSHUA, but Myers' execution puts ELI at a higher level than JOSHUA ever reached.<br />ELI's story revolves around the character of journalist Conrad Davis, who is thrown from our world into a parallel reality thanks to a coma-inducing auto accident. Davis soon realizes, even though he is not a Christian, that everything about this new reality is the same, save for the fact that no one had the faintest clue who Jesus Christ was. Through his work and his ex-wife he happens upon a controversial figure named Eli, and soon parallels between Eli and the person of Jesus begin to appear. Conrad is taken with what Eli represents and he takes a leave of absence from work to become one of his followers.<br />What results is a modern day enactment of the ministry years of Jesus; specifically His passion week. Myers freely admits at the beginning of the book that this story is a work of fiction. But this fiction has the familiar ring and power of Biblical truth. Because in changing the setting of the story of Jesus, Myers has given it a contemporary and radical edge that strikes at one's preconcieved notions and ideas about the character of Jesus and the world He was born into. Though Myers does take some literary freedom in the translation, the end result is quite sound. I found it much harder to point a finger at the Pharisees and unfaithful disciples after reading this book because the story's concept forced me to put myself in their shoes and, in this modern situation, I realized that I wasn't sure that I would fare any better than they did.<br />In the end, ELI succeeds precisely because of that radical twist. The afore mentioned JOSHUA showed us that we, who are so comfortable with our ideas of Jesus, would probably find him just as much of an outlaw if He came today. ELI accomplishes the same thing but takes itfurther by forcing us to look at the bigger picture and apply the lessons He taught to our modern world in a surprising new light. In the story's end Conrad is forced to make a hard decision about Eli. The reader hopefully will be just as challenged in their walk with Christ. A fast-paced, thought-provoking read: Four stars.	2000-11-17
US	47816597	ROILA5M7TNDUS	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Not As Bad As Some Want You To Think	As a long time Clancy fan I have to express my dismay at much of what I read here. THE BEAR AND THE DRAGON is not a bad book. Far from it. Clancy has set the bar high with his previous work but TBATD hardly falls on its face in trying to reach those heights again.<br />Admitedly there are some negatives. We all know by now that Jack Ryan didn't ask to be President. There's no reason for us to be constantly reminded of that fact. Also, Jack's newfound 4-letter vocabulary gets old really fast. There's no excuse for the presence of that crutch. So this is not a perfect book. But I have to cut Clancy some slack on the other points people are making here. So what if he inserts his politics into Ryan's character. Has anyone ever thought that Ryan wasn't a reflection of Clancy's ideals? Ryan's political viewpoints, which naturally do come out since he is the President, take nothing away from the actual STORY, thank you very much. I disagree with Michael Crichton's politics but when I read his books that becomes totally irrelevant.<br />And the story's pretty good. Once again Clancy mixes together an incredible brew up international intrigue and conspiracy to a satisfying boil. The regular cast of characters returns to duty and Clancy smoothly slips in some old faces from Ryan's past. The conflict and hotspots are realistic, and that Clancy can find yet another way to bring the world to the brink of disaster is to his credit. You can criticize all you want but in the end THE BEAR AND THE DRAGON is a winner, and Clancy is still the master. The Ryan universe is not dead, and I look foreward to one or two more releases to complete his story. A solid Four Stars.	2000-11-15
US	47816597	R1QSWOYET53C1K	1578560144	590060599	The Veil (The Cult Series #1)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good Historical Fiction	In THE VEIL, Diane Noble re-tells the tragic story of the massacre of a wagon train at the hands of the Mormon church back in the early days of Utah. <br />The story here is based upon events that actually occurred. Noble's writing flows well and is convincing, though it won't win any literary awards. She succeeds in taking what could be just a textbook tragedy and turning it into something more human and empathetic. THE VEIL not only un-veils the truth about the massacre, but it gives you a fascinating glimpse into what life in the early Mormon church was like (with the pioneer spirit, the hierarchy, and the polygamy -- a practice that is no longer preached). If early Mormon history interests you at all, you'll want to pick this one up, and even it doesn't this should be an interesting read on its own. FOUR STARS.	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R2A0OIFC32TDMZ	0345363116	375124548	End of the Circle (Robotech #18)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Satisfying End	Jack McKinney's controversial THE END OF THE CIRCLE attempts the impossible: to please die-hard fans of a sci-fi series in an attempt to try and bring their beloved saga to a close. The end result is admirable and I, personally, have no real complaints.<br />The SDF-3, failing to appear in Earth space for the final assault on the Regis, de-folds in a mysterious void. Meanwhile, Scott Bernard on Earth begins his search for the lost ship while the remaining Sentinels on Tirol make some hard discoveries. The ensuing action brings all of the generations together, solves one of Robotech's biggest mysteries, graphically reveals the climax of Protoculture's existence, and ties up all remaining loose ends with the remarkable Intersection segment as well as a final &quot;Recollections&quot; chapter from Lisa Hayes-Hunter.<br />THE END OF THE CIRCLE brings very satisfying closure to one of the best science fiction sagas around. As a hard core fan of the entire novel series I was quite pleased with the way the story arc was brought to a close and I believe that most other fans would probably agree with me on that. The authors deserve major credit for succeeding at a very difficult task. Five solid stars.	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R2EL6ARS6TEAML	0785274251	131153224	I Was Wrong: The Untold Story of the Shocking Journey from Ptl Power to Prison and Beyond	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Fascinating, Human Story	I WAS WRONG is a fascinating story recounting the rise of tele-evangelist Jim Bakker to power and wealth at PTL, the subsequent scandal and fall from grace, and the untold story of his repentance and restoration. Bakker, who has undergone a radical change of heart, doesn't pull any punches here. He tells it like it was, embarrassing facts and all, and that only adds to the power of his story and his redemption. He even freely recants the false prosperity &quot;gospel&quot; that he used to preach so freely to the masses.<br />For those who have grown cynical about high-profile preachers, evangelists, or Christianity in general, here is an honest story that will soften your heart and restore your faith. I WAS WRONG is an encouraging, human story of a man humbled by the grace of God. FOUR 1/2 STARS.	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R2F582CI0RQNUJ	084233498X	290856073	Leota's Garden	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Celebration Of Life	LEOTA'S GARDEN is a suprisingly moving work of fiction with an underlying message that is just as important as the story is entertaining. Due to circumstance, the life of the elderly Leota becomes intertwined with her grand-daughter and a volunteer helper and in the process a hidden history of the woman's past is revealed. <br />LEOTA'S GARDEN does a fantastic job of emphasizing the sacred worth of every individual's life, no matter what his or her age. Leota, who herself wished she could just die and meet her Maker, in the end leaves a deep and meaningful mark on each and everyone who knew her. Surprisingly, the story leaves us with some stark images and questions to ponder (thanks to a couple of surprising twists). Rivers again does an incredible job with her characters and the dialogue is extra-strong (contemporary, and at times quite humorous). Out of a long string of worthy stories, this is on of her finest. Five Stars	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R269KL7A3JLE1X	0842335684	559388597	The Scarlet Thread	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Simple, But Real	This is perhaps the most simple of Rivers' books so far. THE SCARLET THREAD follows a woman in a disintigrating marriage who discovers the diary of one of her ancestors who came out west in a covered wagon. The readings of the diary parallel her life in many ways and we see, through duel unfolding plots, how God works on the hearts of the stubborn and moves in their situation as they allow Him to. It's a simple read, but a good one, as once again Rivers pens another strong lead character in a life circumstance that is quite easy (perhaps, sadly, too easy) to relate to. Four Stars.	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R2BVBZPZMA0174	0785272615	788961390	The Stirring	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Read On A Different Subject	This is an interesting premise for a book. A pastor leaves his church for a period of time, letting one of his mentors hold down the fort. And revival breaks out. The Holy Spirit begins to move in a massive way and lives are changed. The plot is a bit more complex than that, but the fascinating thing about this book is the idea that this sort of thing could happen in your town. Moeller does a fine job describing the roots of a revival and what one is actually like when it takes place. In the end it's a unique and enjoyable read. Four stars.	2000-11-14
US	47816597	R1DGKJ7M0A50BG	0310385709	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Jesus We Should All Know	Winner of the Book of the Year award, here Yancey peels back the layers of pre-concieved notions about Jesus and presents a fresh vision of Christ; who He is, why He came, what He taught. The pictures he presents are sometimes surprising. Prepare to have your Sunday-school-bred ideas on the character of Christ challenged and take a new look at the Lord and his relevance to our modern world. What's So Amazing About Grace is Yancey's best-ever work, but here he also reaches into five-star territory. A fantastic read.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	RB10799HCJ34R	0060633875	29780906	Just As I Am: The Autobiography of Billy Graham	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An Amazing Journey	The most prolific evangelist in Christian history, a pastor to the Presidents, and a Christian man of integrity -- this is Billy Graham. Or, at least that is how most people see him. Here we have the story of his life, from his simple farm-boy beginnings, through his tent revival conversion, his college days and marriage to Ruth, his early fiery and outspoken preaching days, his years of global ministry and maturity, and ending today, as a respected man of God by virtually everyone in the world. <br />The story is told with an easy-going pace and reading it you have to smile at Graham's style, which is honest, humorous, and very... normal. It's really amazing to see how God took this average fellow and used him in such amazing ways. This book is also a treasury for any other pastor, evangelist, or other person who wishes to live a life of integrity. Graham relates a wealth of wisdom gained from experience that the church would be wise to remember. We would all do well to remember Billy, and to honor his legacy by remembering his life and everything that he stood for. Just As I Am is an autobiographical masterpiece from a man I deeply respect.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R3Q8HHKJ6LNAEW	1576732304	168287793	Wisdom Hunter	Books	5	37	39	N	N	A Christian Fiction Classic	I first read Wisdom Hunter back in 1993 and it blew me away. I've read it multiple times since then and it is no exageration to say that its powerful message has not diminished.<br />Randall Arthur took a difficult subject, legalism, and somehow spun it into a fantastic read. Follow the journey of a southern fundamentalist pastor, Jason Faircloth, who, due to a life-shattering tragedy, is forced to re-examine his entire worldview. He comes to the point where he has to decide what in his life is truely important and of God, and what is self-created and able to be shed. This search for wisdom and his grand daughter (his lone surviving family member) takes him across the world. And it takes you right along with it on a soul searching trip. <br />Wisdom Hunter vividly comes alive with real characters, conflict, emotion, and a contemporary, relevant message. I'm not sure that it is possible to read a book like this and not have your walk faith challenged to its very core. For we all are guilty, at least to a point, of mistaking our personal opinions or our church's unique teachings for being the will and truth of God. Wisdom Hunter's message is one of freedom and, ultimately, of grace. It is a rare novel that can combine solid Biblical principle so seemlessly into a story that truly moves. A true Christian fiction classic in every way.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	RFSDMMDWRN3CP	1576731863	351551970	Redeeming Love	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Super-charged, Emotional Read	REDEEMING LOVE is an historical romance that doubles as an allegory for the Biblical story of Hosea. It was actually the first book that Rivers attempted to write as a new Christian, even though it was published in this market sixth. <br />If you're not familiar with Hosea then I suggest you sit and read that book first. In it, God commands Hosea to take a prostitute as his wife. The prostitute is unfaithful and leaves but God commands Hosea to find her and forgive her and take her again, as an example of how much He loves Israel. It is a powerful story of passionate love and extreme forgiveness. <br />That same story is re-told here, in the setting of the old west. It is just as extreme and just as powerful. Rivers is the queen of character development and that strength is played upon even more than usual here. In the end, REDEEMING LOVE is one of the best examples of the love that God has for His people and the extent of the grace that He holds out towards us. A super-charged and emotional read. Rivers again scores FIVE STARS.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R302R5B3C7H8JD	0849937388	848955265	Betrayal	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Another Winner From Arthur	Randall Arthur continues the saga he started in Wisdom Hunter and Jordan's Crossing in his newest work, Betrayal. He is again taking on the legalistic worldview but this time he approaches it from a slightly different angle, using betrayal as the driving force (hence the book's title). The story centers on a missionary family in Sweeden associated with an ultra-conservative branch of Christianity. As the story opens, Rachel has to deal with the abandonedment of her husband, Clay. Devestated, she turns to her church body for love and support only to find that their legalistic, dogmatic view of Christianity has no room for acceptance of people in her position (for various reasons). Sin is to be dealt with with a harsh, unwavering hand and even though she was the victim here she is still held responsible in many ways. How Rachel deals with this betrayal (of both her husband and her church leaders), as well as the story of Clay's disappearance contains the key on which this book ultimatly succeeds.<br />Betrayal holds a strong message, both against the legalistic attitudes still permeating much of the church and for the hurting victims out there who have suffered from betrayal and a legalistic, judgemental church body. This is one of the best Christian novels of 1999, and it suffers only from sadly cheesy cover art (don't let that sway you). I would recommend Wisdom Hunter before and above Arthur's other books. It is a true Christian fiction classic. However, Betrayal is definatly worth the purchase. It is a book that will challenge and heal, yet still leave you entertained by the read. Four and a half stars.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R2D4UWE26PWYRK	0805418229	906516339	At the Crossroads: An Insider's Look at the Past, Present, and Future of Contemporary Christian Music	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Wake Up Call	Where did Christian music come from and what were its early driving forces? What mistakes were made that caused many of the problems we wrestle with today to arise? What exactly IS Christian music? Is music to be used only for ministry? Where is Christian music going? How do we, or even CAN we, meld our music with business, and what about the partnership with the mainstream record companies?<br />These are questions that Peacock confronts head on, using history, reason, common sense, and, most importantly, solid Biblical scripture and principles. He has truely strived to give a fair and balanced view of the situations that we are in, and then appealed the the Scriptures to give Biblical solutions and answers to the problems and roads that we are facing. No matter what position you take on any of the above issues, you should be touched and encouraged by what Peacock lays out here, since he does it gently and Biblically, and he really is one of the best equipped men to do something like this. Steven Curtis Chapman wrote &quot;I know of no one who has wrestled more profoundly with these issues and how they may relate to the arts, especially Christian music, than Charlie Peacock.&quot;<br />If you're planning on entering a career related to CCM in any way this should be required reading, but even as a fan it's something you'll want to pick up. It should radically alter the way you think about Christian music and view its place and mission in the world, as well as affect your over-all Christian walk as you try to approach life from a Kingdom Perspective. I give At the Crossroads my full support and recommendation, both critically and as someone who has a passion, love, and concern for CCM and its future.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R3UJBOENYVQ2DE	0310228344	64463183	The Bible Jesus Read	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Good Message For Today's Church	The basic premise of The Bible Jesus Read is that modern Christians make a mistake by ignoring the Old Testament in favor of just focusing on the New. In doing so we are giving ourselves an incomplete picture of who God is. The Old and New Testaments are meant to go hand in hand. Using Job, Deuteronomy, Psalms, Ecclesiastes, and the books of the prophets, Yancey shows that when we ignore the Old Testament we completely miss out on many vital aspects of the character of God. You cannot truly understand God without seeing him through both the Old and New lense. <br />Not as earth-shaking as his previous work, What's So Amazing About Grace (that book changed my life), but an important and thoughtful read -- especially the sections on Job and Ecclesiastes. And any book that can make the minor prophets come alive deserves to be recognized. Four Stars.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R1QJLW1ZRZUTE4	0842339523	307340609	Mark of the Lion : A Voice in the Wind, An Echo in the Darkness, As Sure As the Dawn (Vol 1-3)	Books	5	132	134	N	N	Life-Changing Fiction (And Fun To Read!)	In a short time Francine Rivers has become one of our finest Christian authors, and The Mark Of the Lion Trilogy is her crown jewel. Quite simply, these are my favorite works of fiction, ever. While other authors may sell more books at times, none can WRITE like this woman.<br />The trilogy's setting is a short time after the resurrection of Christ, in the Roman Empire. Using a Hebrew slave girl (Hadassah) and a German gladiator (Atretes; think the movie Gladiator) as the main characters, three books are crafted with themes of faith, redemption and sacrifice. Rivers is one of the best at writing characters and the ones she creates here are absolutely convincing -- flawed and heroic on multiple layers, with developmental conflicts that relate to modern times almost seemlessly.<br />These books will not only grab hold of you and demand to be finished but they will challenge you to take your walk with God to a much deeper level. Do not read this series unless you want to be changed. No other stories have every affected me in such a deep way. Forget the Left Behind series and go invest in a true Christian classic. Five Stars, times three.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R1GMRLYM5KZTA2	1581342144	17974489	This Present Darkness and Piercing the Darkness	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Christian Fiction Classics	Two of the best selling Christian novels in history, now combined. With This Present Darkness, Peretti broke onto the scene by graphically tearing back the veil between the human and the spirit world. Descending upon the small town of Ashton, angels, demons, and strongmen engage in a vivid battle and we, the reader, see it all unfold. Ever wonder what exactly a guardian angel actually may do? Here's one possible scenerio. While Peretti's theology on the subject may not be perfect (many of his ideas are pure speculation, but that's why it's &quot;fiction&quot;), he does most definatly give us a bold reason as to why prayer is so vital. Why prayer does, in fact, move mountains and can turn the tide in unseen spiritual battles that are taking place around us (as in the book of Daniel). Both of these books are fast paced and highly entertaining with a powerful theme. Before the Left Behind series, no other Christian novels were as widely read.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R3P79ZS8NLQNV1	0849911796	723070327	The Visitation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worth a Visit	The Visitation sees Peretti growing in many ways as a writer but still finds him holding on to some of his old ways. The story revolves around a former pastor, Travis Jordan, in a small Washington town. His quiet life is suddenly shaken by supernatural occurances that begin to randomly take place and accompany the appearance of a mysterious messianic figure. Are we seeing the return of Christ in this man, or is he something other than what it seems? Jordan must face his past experiences and come to grips with his personal doubts as he tries to solve what becomes a fast-paced mystery.<br />In Jordan, Peretti has his best-ever written and developed character. This is a fully fleshed-out man, with true human strengths and weaknesses. That is significant, since before his characters sometimes came across a bit flat. However, Peretti fails with his plot resolution to break new ground. Because of that, The Visitation could've been great but ends up being only well done. Still, Peretti fans will love it and others should still enjoy the visit. 3 3/4 stars.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	RGU2SE2K46O6Q	0842382372	951582838	When God Doesn't Make Sense	Books	4	49	52	N	N	A Good Salve For the Hurting	The problem of pain. It's a hard topic and it's been tackled by wiser men than he, but Dobson gives it his best shot here and does a surprisingly nice job. This book won't blow away anyone's mind with new philosophical or theological insights, but it does give the average Christian a really good handbook on the subject of suffering. Why bad things do happen to Christians, what the Bible says about this, what the Bible DOESN'T say about it, and where God is in the midst of the suffering and confusion. As Dobson says, it's virtually guaranteed that every Christian will, at one time or another in their life, experience a tragedy that is powerful enough to rock their faith to its core. It is in that time when we need to be assured of what exactly it is that we believe about God, His love, and His promises. This book is a great preparation for that eventuality, and a really good salve for the Christian who currently is wounded and in need of being picked up. Four stars, and a recommendation to those who can't find a copy of Philip Yancey's Disappointment With God.	2000-11-12
US	47816597	R15S2VF3G47WVQ	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Great, Balanced Approach	A few years ago Josh Harris told the world how he Kissed Dating Goodbye, and his ideas became a national movement. The thesis of his writing was that it was best to avoid dating until one was ready to make a marriage commitment, in order to protect your heart, mind, and body. Whether he intended it or not, however, the message that most seemed to take away from the book was that dating for Christians was a bad choice. Enter the year 2000, a newly married Josh Harris, and his new book, Boy Meets Girl, Say Hello To Courtship. I made it no secret that while I found positive points in I Kissed Dating Goodbye I had problems with much of what Harris concluded. Boy Meets Girl retains none of those problems.<br />First of all, Harris almost immediatly de-fuses the dating vs. courtship controversy. Taking a very balanced position, he states that what is important isn't whether you date or you court but rather the intentions and motivation of the person. It's about avoiding the extremes of legalism vs. lawlessness by realizing that if your heart is in the right place and you are living for God as you pursue marriage that the terms we ultimately choose will not matter because our actions should line up with our faith. Harris prefers the term courtship but as we see he and his wife dated throughout their relationship. For Harris the debate is un-constructive and missing the point.<br />Boy Meets Girl is a true sequel to I Kissed Dating Goodbye. It's for those who have realized that, okay, now that I'm ready to possibly pursue marriage in my life how should I go about doing it? The path Harris lays out defines his view of what Godly courtship and dating consists of. In a nutshell they are as follows. One: it takes much more than just intense feelings; wisdom balances out true romance. Two: God's guidance will always make the timing right. Three: courtship involves romance, but also friendship and fellowship. Four: Communication is key. Five: the roles of men and women are Biblically defined and need to be respected. Six: a healthy relationship requires support from, and respect for, your loved ones. Seven: it is possible to be in love and remain pure, and there is forgiveness from past failures. And finally, how to decide to take that final step towards marriage. If you've been beaten down by an approach to dating that just doesn't work the above approach might just be a God-send for you and your heart.<br />The message of this book is even-handed, God-centered, and practicle, and it's a fast and easy read for anyone. Harris' outline answers most of the questions left hanging from his last book, and give you a solid idea of how to travel that path towards marriage in a way that honors God and really works for you and the one you're with. I recommend Boy Meets Girl whole-heartedly. Whether you are newly arrived to this point in life or have been dealing with the dating scene for much of your life you will find a message here that hits home. No other book on this subject hits all the high points in such a balanced and applicable way. Five Stars.	2000-11-08
US	47816597	R3TK5PP0UK089K	0892839767	478675227	What on Earth Are We Doing?: Finding Our Place As Christians in the World	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This Book Will Shake Your Christian Walk	This is the most powerful work that I have read since Philip Yancey's What's So Amazing About Grace. It spoke volumes of truth to me. Fischer believes that the evangelical community in America has, in the past 25 years or so, developed what can only be described as a Christian sub-culture; one which has had more negative than positive effects. He states that we're raised to believe that if we only act differently from the world then the world will see us and think &quot;man, I wanna be like you.&quot; But that hasn't really happened. Instead, in large part to the WAY we act differently, the world views us and sees hypocracy, piousness, and a lack of love. They're not seeing Jesus. Just look at the way Christians are portrayed by the media: intolerant, not full of love. Also, instead of being salt and light to the world, we are in effect no longer even in the world. We have retreated in an effort to avoid being touched by the sinfulness that we see. <br />Fischer believes that our little sub-culture has totally failed. The church is called to love our neighbors, which requires actually engaging them. The church is not called to impose our morality upon someone who doesn't believe as we do. We are not here to spread Christian conservative principles throughout America. We're here to spread the Gospel of Jesus to people who are without it and lost.<br />One of the problems is that we so often view others as the enemy. Conservatives look at liberals and think &quot;enemy.&quot; Fundamentalists look at homosexuals and pro-choice activists as &quot;the enemy.&quot;  Fischer says that is dead wrong. The world (the unsaved) is not our enemy. The world is LOST. When we quit looking at the world as something we must struggle and fight against and begin looking at the world through the eyes of Christ and see them as lost, that totally changes our approach. When our attitude changes, we no longer try to set the sinner straight or fix their moral problems. Instead, we try to bring her/him home safely. We don't focus on their sinfulness, we focus on their need for a savior. <br />Our entire approach must change. To do so, we need to reach the world where it's at. We need to examine their culture: the things that are important to them and the things they spend their time doing. By reaching out to the world with our walls of judgement breeched, and doing it in love, by realizing that none of us are perfect and that world is full of sinners, and I am the worst of them (as Paul himself readily admited), our efforts to reach these people will take on a totally new face and effectiveness. Buy this book. Search for it, if you have to (you may have to order it). It's a great read -- fast paced, due to his writing style -- and you'll finish it quickly. The message here is challenging, no-holds-barred, and urgent; it must be heard and applied. Five Stars.	2000-10-12
US	47816597	R2BNIAU4R4E1Z4	0825432979	231429456	The Flames of Rome: A Novel	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Maier Is A Master Storyteller	From the author of A Skeleton In God's Closet. Outstanding historical fiction, telling the story of Nero's rise to power as emperor of Rome, why he &quot;went bad,&quot; and climaxing in the infamous burning of Rome that was blamed on the Christians. This book takes a plethora of historical research, uses that as its foundation, and fills in the blanks with some fine speculation and character enhancement by Maier. It makes history come alive, with vivid brush strokes. This is a definate hidden gem, and one that anyone interested in this era will want to search out.	2000-10-05
US	47816597	R1NBKVO25W0QKC	0880706317	482734531	The Ragamuffin Gospel: Good News for the Bedraggled, Beat-Up, and Burnt Out	Books	4	21	24	N	N	An Important Read	The theme of the book is that we, Christians, are all just ragamuffin's saved by grace, but we don't understand what that means. Manning says that most in the church today SAY they believe we are saved by grace but continue to live like we're saved by our works. We sin and when we pray we go on and on begging for fogiveness, thinking that somehow we have to express enough sorrow and grief before God will say &quot;I forgive you.&quot; We continue to try and earn our salvation. We live &quot;spiritual&quot; lives and hold up spiritual fascades, hiding our sinful tendancies and pretending to be more together than we really are. All for the sake of appearances. We live like our salvation hangs in the balance and we could lose it at any moment if we sin too many times. This is foolishness, and Manning goes in depth to explain why and gives a picture of what it truely means to live under grace.<br />I recommend this book. I'm not a big fan of Mannings writing style. He tends to let his words wander. He doesn't keep the focus tight and he can lose sight of his point. But the core message of this book is outstanding, scandelous, and challenging. And the final couple of chapters are full of gold. This book blows the lid off of a Christian &quot;religion,&quot; replacing it with a description of what it really means to have a grace-afforded relationship. Four and a half stars.	2000-10-05
US	47816597	R22CH9Q3VNSRQN	031021436X	858732473	Disappointment With God: Three Questions No One Asks Aloud	Books	5	151	159	N	N	A Powerful Work Of Hope	This is, hands down, the best treatment on the subject of the problem of pain that I have ever read. Where Yancy's Where Is God When It Hurts deals more with physical pain, Disappointment With God deals with the emotional and mental side of the problem. Every human being at one time or another will deal with this issue, to some degree. Why does God seem distant when we need to feel Him most? Why do bad things happen if He loves us? How come He was so present and vocal in the Bible, but not today? Is God fair? I only want a sign, a small sign; why doesn't He answer? Hard questions such as these plague everyone's mind at some time, and often drive a wedge in a person's faith. Does God care?<br />Yancey uses the book of Job in a way that many of us may never have seen to present God's case. He gives gentle answers; very important and human answers to these very human questions and hurts. He doesn't pretend to know all the answers and he refuses to give any canned or cliched replies. But he does give his best, and his best is remarkably worthy. You can see that Yancey himself has struggled greatly with these issues, and his empathy and experience show.If you've ever dealt with these questions, with the disappointment with God to any degre, or if you know someone who has, you must read this book. Five Stars (a rating that Yancey is very familiar with).	2000-10-05
US	47816597	R2YCNLUNTR52HE	0736904484	331065988	With New Eyes: Fresh Vision for the Soul	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Becker Is a WRITER	The trend is for artists to write books that accompany their new album releases, though most of them are quite average. Margaret Becker not only avoids mediocrity, she rises far, far above it with this book. It's a collection of thoughts, essays, and observations that, thanks to her stark honesty and poetic style, are a pure joy to read, moving, and challenging. Becker's lyrics are always remarkable and she shows that she's got the talent to transfer that skill to a more traditional literary arena here. Five Stars, and a steaming cafe mocha for you to enjoy while you read.	2000-10-05
US	47816597	R3HZPNC8NAVYW7	0842335714	521278562	The Last Sin Eater	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Francine's Most Unusual Work	The sin eater is a tradition that came from England to America. It was a person who was paid a fee to take the sins of a community upon himself. That person then became a social outcast and recluse. This book tells the story of the last sin eater, deep in the Appalachian Mountains. Little Cadi Forbes feels the weight of her sin so severly that she is driven to find the sin eater. The process is one of discovery, intrigue, and redemption, as she learns the true nature of sin and salvation and ends up turning her whole world (and her secret-bound community) completely upside down. Easily Rivers' most unusual book, it is also one of her most powerful. Five Stars.	2000-10-05
US	47816597	RPVHQGRT935QD	0785273603	214165889	The Wind in the Wheat	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautiful Story, Important Message	Arvin does just an incredible job of writing a book that is solid from a literary standpoint but which also tackles a serious message in a very effective manner. Andrew Miracle has been given a musical gift from God. A visiting manager hears him perform and in a flash Andrew is signed out of obscurity to a major label and thrust into a whirlwind world that is totally foreign to him. Everything that was once important and clear to him is now hazy and hard questions arise. What is at the core of Christian music? What are its values? Is it a business? Is it a ministry? Is there such a thing as the &quot;business of ministry?&quot; As his star begins its rapid ascent, Andrew must face these questions head on and make some hard choices that are all too relevant to today's music scene. If you are a fan of CCM at all, or especially if you think you will be involved with CCM professionally, you really should pick up this book. It has a serious message, but it's not heavy-handed. It is fair, but bluntly honest. It will force you to re-examine how you view the music you are buying, your attitudes towards many aspects of the scene, and especially how you as a fan look at the artists you listen to. Read this along with Charlie Peacock's At the Crossroads. Five Stars.	2000-10-05
US	47816597	RRGJZYKJ1I8YY	0310213274	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	5	125	132	N	N	What's So Amazing About This Book	Book of the Year winner, this is the best book, outside of the Bible, that I have ever read. Period. Here Yancey presents a radical picture of what Grace, the last good word, really is. As usual, his writing style is very down to earth, real, empathetic, and insightful. How do we deal with the idea of Grace combined with things like Nazi Germany, the KKK, and Columbine high school? Can we reconcile the two in our minds? We must, if we are to view Grace as it is truely presented in the Bible. Grace is scandelous. But scandelous Grace is what God demands of His church. Real Grace forgives the unforgiveable, loves the unloveable, and reaches even to the undesirable. And when true Grace is emparted, the world sees Christ, for Christ's Grace given to us is just as amazing. Yancey's words here are sometimes shocking, as it is difficult for the rational human mind to empart Grace when we automatically demand justice. But none the less, his words are Biblically true and so the challenge is for the church to apply these lessons. Read this book. Open your heart. Accept the Grace that God emparts to you and then empart Grace to those in your life. Learning to empart Grace, and in the process destroying the cycle of un-grace, will utterly change your world. There is no other book that I can recommend more to a Christian searching to be and love like Jesus. Five stars.	2000-09-28
