US	47855748	R21ECLT2SGAKO4	1890085014	466089385	Complete Book of Chess Strategy: Grandmaster Techniques from A to Z	Books	4	118	126	N	Y	Good, but More Brief Than Complete...	This is a pretty good starter book for someone, yet is far from complete...  The name is a bit deceptive to claim to be a complete strategy guide...  This reads more like a Chess Dictionary than an actual strategy guide...  Perhaps a better name would of been Chess Dictionary, Grandmaster Techniques from A-Z...  I would say this book is mostly good for those U1600 range...  The lower you are, the more this book most likely will help you...  Just realize this gives a brief basic idea of what something means...  By no means is this a complete work that will make you into an IM or GM...  I will try to give a basic idea of what to expect in this book...<br />  Basically the book starts with an introduction explaining the goals of this book and how the idea to write happend...  Silman explains how he had a student that basically wrote a book like this in a simple form...  He could not deal with how books overwhelm person with too much information...  So Silman took that idea and expanded upon it, creating basically an easy to digest Chess Dictionary...  It then goes into a short explanation of what the various chess notation symbols mean...  This can be good for a starter since its easy to confuse !? with ?! :)...  Then he gets into Chess notation, this part bothered me a bit to say the least...  I wish he covered and explained descriptive notation since that was something I had lots of trouble understanding starting out...  I think that would of helped someone staring out very much to say the least...  Also make it easier for them to get older chess books and understand them...  Still he covers modern notation rather well and in an easy to understand way...<br />  Then we get into the 4 main parts of the book...  They consist of The Opening, The Middlegame, The Endgame, and Practical Matters...  I will try to give a basic idea of what each one of these parts consist of...<br />  Part I The Opening...  He deals with basic opening strategy, castling, development, fianchetto, then he gets into some opening systems...  The coverage he gives on the openings he covers here is pretty minimal...  At most he gives 1 or 2 pages with only a few moves mentioned...  He tries to give basic ideas of the openings using words, instead of a page or two of variations...  This can be good for someone new to the game, since its likely to now overwhelm them...  The openings he touches on consist of Albin Counter Gambit, Alekhine Defense, Benko Gambit, Bogo-Indian Defense, Benko Gambit, Boring Opening(Reversed London System), Botvinnik Formation, Budapest Gambit, Caro-Kann Defense, Center-Counter Defense, Colle Opening, Czech Benoni, Dutch Defense, English Opening, Four Knights Opening, French Defense, Giuoco Piano, Grob, Gruenfeld Defense, Hedgehog Formation, King's Gambit, King's Indian Attack, King's Indian Defense, Larsen's Opening, Modern Benoni Defense, Nimzo-Indian Defense, Orangutan, Petroff Defense, Pirc Defense, Queen's Gambit(Chigorin system, accepted, declined), QGD(Capablanca's Freeing Maneuver, Tarrasch Defense), Queen's Indian Defense, Reti Opening, Ruy Lopez, Scotch Opening, Semi-Slav Defense, Sicilian Defense, Slav Defense, Stonewall Attack, Torre Attack, Trompowski Opening, Two Knight Defense, and the Veresov Opening...  They are listed in alphabetical order so that makes looking them up rather easy...  He also touches a bit on preperation and reversed openings...  The part concludes with 20 quiz questions relating to openings...<br />  Part two The Middlegame deals with what comes after the opening...  This part starts out talking about attacks on the enemy king...  Castling on opposite sides, castling on the same side, and even the classic Bishop Sacrifice...  He then gets into combinations and combinational themes...  Stuff like Clearance Sacrifice, Decoy, Deflection, Double Attack, Fork, Pins/Skewers, Windmill, X-Rays, and Zwischenzug...  He touches on King in the center and Kingside focal points next...  After that he talks aboutMating Net and Mating Patterns...  He even lists several known mates, including Blackburne's, Boden's, and Pilsbury...  This is good for a new player so he knows what people mean when they refer to these mates by name...  Silman even talks a little bit about Sacrifice and Tactical Vision...  Silman also gets into such things as Blockade, Candidate Moves/Imbalances, Centralization, Closed/Open Positions, Compensation, Counterplay, Defensive Strategy, Entombed Pieces, Initiative, Material Advantage, Minority Attack, Minor Pieces, Mysterious Rook Moves, Open Files, and Overprotection...  He even touches on more neglected concepts to starters...  Topics such as Pawn Center, Pawn Chain, Pawn Structure(Backward, Doubled, Isolated, Hanging, Passed, and Tripled Pawns), Pawn Islands, and Pawn Tension...  After that he talks about Perpetual Check, Piece Activity, Plan, Principle of Two Weaknesses, Prophylaxis, Queenside Pawn Majority, Restriction, Space, Squares, Static Versus Dynamic Advantages, Support Points, Trading Pieces, and Traps...  If your not sure about any of that stuff, or don't know what they mean... Perhaps this book might be something that will help you out...  The part ends with a 33 question Quiz relating to Middlegame concepts...  Again the coverage of the mentioned topics is rather on the brief side...<br />  Part III The Endgame talks about what comes after the middlegame...  The topics he touches on in this chapter deals with the following...  Bishop and Wrong Rook Pawn, Cat and Mouse, Exchanging, Minor Pieces in The Endgame, Passed Pawns in The Endgame(Queen Endgame, Pawn Majority and Outside Passed Pawn, Promotion and Underpromotion), Queen and Minor Piece Fights, Stalemate, Using the King(King and Pawn vs King, Opposition, Saving Pawn Moves, Square of The Pawn, Triangulation), and Using The Rooks(Active Rook, Lucena Position, Philidor Position, Rooks Behind Passed Pawns, Short and Long Side of The Board and Two Hogs on The Seventh)...  Again the coverage is far from complete, but still it can get you started on right path...  Also help prepare you to read a more detailed/difficult book on the topics...  This part ends with a 10 question Quiz about Endgame matters...<br />  Part IV deals with Practical Matters where Silman talks about \\"invisible\\" facets to the game...  He touches on such topics as Blunder, Draw Offer, Point Count, Psychology, and Time Pressure...  He does preach to players to never give up and play to win...  This part ends with a 10 question Quiz about Practical Matters that were covered...<br />  So this is a pretty good book for a newer chess player, the less you know the more it will help...  If not for a few things I might of given the book 5 stars...  Mostly the fact that he does not cover descriptive notation and the books name is very deceptive...  If someone buys this thinking it is actually a Total Complete Guide of Chess Strategy, they will find over time there are many gaps...  Also some of the coverage perhaps is a bit too brief to be helpful...  The end of the book with the Questions and Answers to the Quizzes is rather nice...  Instead of just printing the answers to them...  This makes it rather easy to go over them without back and forth looking...  Other starter books to consider might be Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess and The Mammoth Book of Chess...  This book is nicely priced and you get good value for your dollar...  Also remember Silman is rather easy to read and understand...  Just realize this is more of a Dictionary than anything else...  The book is very easy to Digest and Should at least help with Chess terms if nothing else...  I might not agree with all Silman says, but I still think this is a good book with a deceptive title...bout Mating Net and Mating Patterns...  He even lists several known mates, including Blackburne's, Boden's, and Pilsbury...  This is good for a new player so he knows what people mean when they refer to these mates by name...  Silman even talks a little bit about Sacrifice and Tactical Vision...  Silman also gets into such things as Blockade, Candidate Moves/Imbalances, Centralization, Closed/Open Positions, Compensation, Counterplay, Defensive Strategy, Entombed Pieces, Initiative, Material Advantage, Minority Attack, Minor Pieces, Mysterious Rook Moves, Open Files, and Overprotection...  He even touches on more neglected concepts to starters...  Topics such as Pawn Center, Pawn Chain, Pawn Structure(Backward, Doubled, Isolated, Hanging, Passed, and Tripled Pawns), Pawn Islands, and Pawn Tension...  After that he talks about Perpetual Check, Piece Activity, Plan, Principle of Two Weaknesses, Prophylaxis, Queenside Pawn Majority, Restriction, Space, Squares, Static Versus Dynamic Advantages, Support Points, Trading Pieces, and Traps...  If your not sure about any of that stuff, or don't know what they mean... Perhaps this book might be something that will help you out...  The part ends with a 33 question Quiz relating to Middlegame concepts...  Again the coverage of the mentioned topics is rather on the brief side...<br />    Part III The Endgame talks about what comes after the middlegame...  The topics he touches on in this chapter deals with the following...  Bishop and Wrong Rook Pawn, Cat and Mouse, Exchanging, Minor Pieces in The Endgame, Passed Pawns in The Endgame(Queen Endgame, Pawn Majority and Outside Passed Pawn, Promotion and Underpromotion), Queen and Minor Piece Fights, Stalemate, Using the King(King and Pawn vs King, Opposition, Saving Pawn Moves, Square of The Pawn, Triangulation), and Using The Rooks(Active Rook, Lucena Position, Philidor Position, Rooks Behind Passed Pawns, Short and Long Side of The Board and Two Hogs on The Seventh)...  Again the coverage is far from complete, but still it can get you started on right path...  Also help prepare you to read a more detailed/difficult book on the topics...  This part ends with a 10 question Quiz about Endgame matters...<br />   Part IV deals with Practical Matters where Silman talks about \\"invisible\\" facets to the game...  He touches on such topics as Blunder, Draw Offer, Point Count, Psychology, and Time Pressure...  He does preach to players to never give up and play to win...  This part ends with a 10 question Quiz about Practical Matters that were covered...<br />   So this is a pretty good book for a newer chess player, the less you know the more it will help...  If not for a few things I might of given the book 5 stars...  Mostly the fact that he does not cover descriptive notation and the books name is very deceptive...  If someone buys this thinking it is actually a Total Complete Guide of Chess Strategy, they will find over time there are many gaps...  Also some of the coverage perhaps is a bit too brief to be helpful...  The end of the book with the Questions and Answers to the Quizzes is rather nice...  Instead of just printing the answers to them...  This makes it rather easy to go over them without back and forth looking...  Other starter books to consider might be Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess and The Mammoth Book of Chess...  This book is nicely priced and you get good value for your dollar...  Also remember Silman is rather easy to read and understand...  Just realize this is more of a Dictionary than anything else...  The book is very easy to Digest and Should at least help with Chess terms if nothing else...  I might not agree with all Silman says, but I still think this is a good book with a deceptive title...	2002-12-14
US	47855748	R1730QPX1I5YLC	0486261549	114396013	The Art of the Middle Game (Dover Chess)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Affordable Classic Book...	This is a Good Affordable Classic Book to say the very least...  Yeah its in the old notation that nobody wants to deal with, but its not even 10 bucks to buy...  People can try to say this book is outdated or this or that...  Still do you really understand something without the history??  Keres and Kotov are two players worth spending some time reading...  I do find the Index of Middle-Game themes pretty interesting...<br />Basically chapter 1 is done by Golembek about what he calls Planning in the Middle Game...  This is his try to ease the reader into the more advanced stuff of Keres and Kotov...<br />Kotov has Chapter 2 with Strategy and Tactics of Attack on the King...  He also does Chapter 4 \\"Various Pawn Positions in the Centre\\"...  So the even chapters goto him basically...  They are worth looking and reading over...  You might not agree with all he says, still its always good to be exposed to other ideas...<br />Keres who many say is odd, ends up with the odd chapters...  Chapter 3 he talks about How to Defend Difficult Positions...  That is something I think we can all relate to :)...  I think it was pretty interesting chapter least how he views things...  He also does Chapter 5 The Art of Analysis...  This seems to deal a bit more with Adjourned games but can still be useful...  The book only has 5 chapters but is 238 pages so not a bad buy...<br />The index of players has some interesting names on it to say the very least...  I think the Index of Middle-Game Themes was really a nice touch...  I would say pick this book as a throw in next time you order...  Figure if you already gonna pay shipping might as well pick up a cheap book as a throw in...	2002-05-28
US	47855748	R1MKH9RSRCZA0Q	1857440226	244717255	Chess Endings: Essential Knowledge	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Crib Notes to the Endgame :)...	This is a must have book I think for anyone U1800...  Figure the lower you are the more you need to get this book :)...  This is like Crib Notes to the Endgame to be really honest with you...  He makes it really simple and the book has lot of chapters making it easy to look stuff up...  You can get a pretty good idea how to play the Endgame from this book...  This is like the DNA to the Endgame...  The building blocks that you need to go to the next level...  Yes he deals with mating with King, Bishop and Knight vs. King...  He does not give much time in it but if you play out the example enough...  Once You understand the basic technique its really not that hard...  He breaks down the book and gives least 1 example for just about anything...  <br />The book is only about 100 pages so you will not be blitzed with too much info...  I figure you get this book and if you need something more advanced later on so be it...  This should get you to the stage of playing least a decent endgame...  If You understand the concepts in this book you should be pretty set...<br />This book helped take my endgame from a disaster into winning lost endgames :)...  Also just teaching the basic concepts and expanding on them really helped...  The small chapters make it easy to find what you are looking for fast...	2002-05-28
US	47855748	ROL48Y695G3H0	0486284492	697963399	The Art of Sacrifice in Chess (Dover Chess)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Classic Book on Sacrifice...	This is not a book bean counters will enjoy to say the very least :)...  If you like to throw caution to the wind and go for broke...  This is a pretty good book to consider picking up and reading :)...  It uses old descriptive notation so that might not go over well with some.  Still just reading the words I found to be pretty enjoyable.  I like how he talks about the Sham sac and some other things.  For the price it is really worth thinking about getting with another book or order.  The contents of the book are setup sorta interesting...<br />Part 1 deals with<BR>The Various Types of Sacrifices<br />Sham Sacrifices, Positional Sacrifices, Sacrifices for gain and Mating Sacrifice...  Then he gets into what he calls Real Sacrifices...  They include Sacs for development, Obstructive Sacs, Preventing (or anti-castling) Sacs...  Other sacs he gets into are Line-Clearance Sacs, Vacating Sacs, Deflecting or Decoy Sacs, (Castled) King's Field Sac and King-Hunt Sac...<br />Part II deals with Sacrificial Values :)...<br />This mostly consists of the Exchange Sac and the Queen Sac...  A few examples are given for each of the listed type of sacs...  So its pretty interesting how they break it up in the Contents page...  This book is also 197 pages, so its pretty good value for the price.  If this book might fit your style, I would think about picking it up...	2002-05-28
US	47855748	RCNNN1PAJK5AX	0671874322	857224773	Bobby Fischer's Outrageous Chess Moves: A Study of 101 Outrageous Moves by the Greatest Chess Champion of All Time	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Average Simple Book...	This is an Average simple book basically...  He has a collection of 101 of moves Fischer makes in games...  Milking the Fischer name for some money like so many others...  He is the guy that yells Young Fischer in the Searching for Bobby Fischer movie if you wonder...  I do like that he has a rating for like how hard the move is to find...  Also like he does have the complete games listed in the end...  So least you can play out the games and that is pretty cool...  The price of the book is fair, still don't expect to learn anything...  Really more of a book you get to enjoy than learn from...  So if this book sounds interesting it is not a bad toss on book I guess...  I have a copy but I never look at it and really have no idea where it is...  So Im not sure how high I would rate the reread value...	2002-05-28
US	47855748	RLSLVUG77PIGK	1857445198	398811156	A Killer Chess Opening Repertoire (Cadogan Chess Books)	Books	4	60	63	N	N	Deceptive name, Good general d4 repertoire book...	...<br />The name of this book is deceptive, this is really for d4 only as white...  Maybe if you play 1 Nf3 you can transpose into some of these lines.  They do least a few games that start out like that and its one reason I got the book.  Mostly I bought the book just for 3 of the chapters...  For the Barry attack in chapter 1, 150 attack in chapter 2 and The Anti-Dutch in chapter 7...  Ill give a basic review of the entire book though...  The introduction explains the basic goals of the book and is worth reading...  Basically is for people 2000 and below in STR...<br />Chapter 1 deals with what is called the Barry Attack...  The chapter runs from page 7 to page 35 so its decent sized...  He gives a basic intro as to why to use the Barry attack and some other things about it...  Then gives games and the coverage seems pretty complete to be honest...  He does not just data dump so if you actually spend the time and read...  You should have a pretty good understanding of the Barry Attack...  He gives the basic move order as 1. d4 Nf6 2. Nf3 g6 3. Nc3 d5 4. Bf4 Bg7 5. e3 0-0 6. Be2...  So you can try that out and see what you think for yourself...  Many times the h pawn is sent down the board and is not that easy to stop...  The name Barry attack sorta means it looks naive but can have some bite...  This is also one of the few books I know that has any coverage of it at all...<br />Chapter 2 deals with what is known as the 150 Attack...  This is good to use vs. Pirc and Modern defense setups...  It got its name cuz people in England about 150 rating were using it...  That would be about 1800 under most rating systems if you were to convert it...  It starts on page 36 and ends on page 51...  He gives an introduction about it and some games and for the size of book coverage seems good...  He does not data dumb and talks so you should be able to least understand it...  This is another opening Ive not seen talked about really in any other book...  So I was happy that this and Barry attack were in same book :)...  Unlike the Barry Attack chapter he does not have any games that start with 1 Nf3 in this chapter...<br />Chapter 3 he gets into the Colle-Zuckertort System...  Im really not a huge fan of this system...  Still I do not really think its totally bad or anything...  Just the style I play it does not seem like it will work well with me...  He gives it as an alternative to Queen's Gambit games...  I prefer the Levitsky attack in these cases personally...  Still he starts on page 52 and ends on page 69...  I feel this system can be a bit on the drawing side and hard to get a real advantage...  The basic setup he gives is 1. d4 d5 2. Nf3 Nf6 3. e3 e6 4. Bd3 c5 5. b3...  He also has least 1 example using 1 Nf3 and going into it...  So this can be good to know if you play 1 Nf3 at times...  Figure more options of openings you have to transpose into the better...<br />Chapter 4 deals with Beating the Anti-Colle systems...  The basic setup is 1 d4 d5 2 Nf3 in this chapter...  Black responds with moves mostly like ...Bg4, ...Bf5, ...c5, ...Nc6 and also has some 3rd moves by black...  The coverage seems pretty decent and at worse you should have basic idea what your doing.  It runs from page 70 and ends on page 89 so its got a fair amount of coverage for size of book...<br />Chapter 5 is the Classic Queen's Indian, this chapter tells what can be bad about using Colle-Zuckertort setup all time...  Seems mostly for those having trouble with Queen Indian experts...  Starts on page 90 and ends on page 102 so maybe not the most coverage on it...  Still if you play Colle-Zuckertort probably will need to check this chapter out as well...<br />Chapter 6 is the Anti-Benoni which Im not sure how good a chapter it really is...  He takes a shot at the Hawk and does not seem to worry much about Benoni...  Still says it can get dangerous for either side in those openings...  He does not cover any d4 c5 games of the Benoni...  That is really what bothers me about this chapter...  It starts on page 103 and ends on page 127...  So with all those pages could of least touched on that a little bit...  Since as white those are the Benoni style games I have the most trouble with...<br />Chapter 7 deals with what he calls the Anti-Dutch...  This guy must of really had a positive childhood using all this Anti stuff in names ;)...  I use this sometimes so I was kinda glad that it was in this book to say least...  Since really not sure any other books that cover it...  Basically the moves are 1 d4 f5 2 Bg5 and the games can get tricky...  This can be annoying to black also if they want a certain setup...  The chapter starts on page 128 and ends on page 137...  I just wish they gave more pages to this chapter and less to one of the others...  White wins all 4 games they use as examples...  So I guess this must really crush the Dutch :)...<br />Chapter 8 is a great number but sorta weak Odds and Ends...  This chapter is kinda cheesy and has only 1 d4 h6 as the only real game it talks about...  He gives some other small examples of other second moves...  The coverage he gives to them really is not worth a mention...  Just to give an idea he thinks that 1 d4 c5 will end up 2. d5 f5 the Clarendon Court variation which he brags about being 100% with...  Also is kind enough to mention beating Hebden with it :)...  The chapter starts on page 138 and ends on page 141...  So not really sure I consider that much if at all a chapter ;)...  The Index in the back is actually done rather well for the 3 pages it gets :)...<br />If you play 1 d4 or 1 Nf3 I would think about getting this book...  I would say its a solid 4 star book and would of been 5 if not for a few things...  The final chapter is kinda weak and maybe some of the systems he talks about are not the best...  I would of rather Levitsky attack over Colle-Zuckertort...  Still to each their own on that part...  Really he left some gaps that I run into and that annoyed me...  Many games I play I do 1 d4 and they reply ...c5 or ...e5 and wish he covered that...  I really got this book for 3 chapters so I can't complain...  I know someone that used this book to get over 1700 on ICC...  He swears by the Colle-Zuckertort and other systems in book...  This is not for those who like to play early c4 as white...  Or who are against blocking their c pawn before pushing it...  This is good for those that play 1 d4 and hate pushing c pawn and don't mind blocking it...  Also for those that play 1 Nf3 and want more systems to transpose into...  Not to mention the Anti-Dutch is worth a try...  I have won a few games with it and it can really annoy black...  I would say of the newer books this one is better written than most I see...  Also he does not just data dump he talks about stuff and gives general ideas...	2002-05-28
US	47855748	R2DIP79OB0MH0	1857441516	535843150	The Sorcerer's Apprentice (Cadogan Chess Books)	Books	5	13	27	N	Y	Forget Harry Potter, Here is a Real Sorcerer!!!	Lets cut to the chase, this is a real Sorcerer at work...  The book just for the 40 combinations is worth picking up...  Still lets not waste time talking about that stuff...<br />Bronstein loves chess, not studying this line and that line...  Not just memorising and trying to think what is this or what is that...  He actually Played the game, he would do moves just to see what would happen...  He talks about chess in a way where it makes you wanna play...  Not all boring technical stuff that most don't understand but pretend to :)...  No he talks about it in his own simple way...  Calls people Fox or hedgehogs and explains how the Fox will try something even if it might lose...  That is what its all about, tossing it on the line...  Not just playing all safe and in worry about losing...  Gotta roll the dice and just go for broke...  Yes he basically says he tossed the games vs. Bot cuz of pressure and this and that... So he does admit to a shady side of chess...  Still he makes it very clear he just loves playing the game...  He did not seem to care about all the politics and having that on him...  I wish that he would of beat him though, I wish he did not give in...  Still when your in his situation thats the only way you can understand...  I wonder if Tal had pressure to lose in that first match in 1960...  Still lets get back to Bronstein, he played very far into his life... He is almost pure Chess I think, Im not a huge fan of his...  Still if you read this book, its hard not to like the guy at least to some degree...  I do not agree with him telling people to build a little house and castle early...  I think many games are lost cuz people castle wrongly or too early...  Still Im free not to agree with him all I wish...  This book really is enjoyable just to read, even if you don't go over the games...  So throw out that Harry Potter and get a book with a real Sorcerer :)...<br />If You play with Passion for the game, get this book...  This book is not for those that play boring and never take chances... So if your a Fox, pick this up, if your a hedgehog, go play with Sonic :)...	2002-05-27
US	47855748	R2E8B5G15046YG	1857442024	865385773	Life & Games of Mikhail Tal	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Great Book, Should Own...	This is a great book that everyone should own that cares about Chess.  Tal was one of the most exciting players to ever play the game of Chess.  He came at a time when matches were just home preperation and memorization.  This was not the way to play the game and he shattered Botvinnik.  At a time when he was thought almost impossible to even consider beating.  Also it was the ultimate challenge of Science vs. Humanity.  Would the almost machine like logician be the victor over the Magician...  The book is very well written and a real joy to read.  I actually bought an original copy from 1976 of this book as well.  I still have it wrapped up and kept very well.  I bought it after getting the the newer version just to have.  The cover on that book is different than one used for this version.<br />What makes this so great is that Tal has a style to his writing unlike anyone else.  Also he seems to be a bit nuts and that always helps the enjoyment.  He actually takes the role of a journalist asking himself questions.  So that is a bit of an odd thing if you consider it.  Still he tries to explain situations and even what he is thinking sometimes.  He comes off as being a really human person which is important.  He makes it clear that he is not a machine he is mortal.  He does not try to elevate himself and disrespect anyone etc.  Some of the stories are very interesting also.  He talks about a game vs. Fischer that most likely he was gonna lose.  He explains how Bobby wrote down the move in almost russian notation and showed him.  Hoping to get some sort of reaction I suspect.  Tal knowing this was the move that just about beat him explains his thought process.  The way he reacts causes Fischer to actually change his move and ends up losing or drawing to Tal.  This is rather interesting esp since I think Tal had a + score over Fischer.  He talks about another game where his opponent planned to wear dark glasses.  He hears of this and decides to don his own sunglasses.  What happens next you will have to get book to read :).  The popular Hippo story is also a favorite of many of his fans.  He talks about other not so happy topics as well.  I had wrote a really long review for this book some time ago.  Yet for some reason it got deleted so hope this one works out better.  I have some other books from Tal I have yet to review as well.  Reason it takes so long to review them is there is so much to the books.  Makes it very difficult to explain just how good the book is.  Maybe I am biased cuz Tal is one of my favorite players.  Yet I really do not use any of his openings or anything.  Just from this book and other things I guess it helped create a strong liking.  I am not sure I can really explain it.  Yet I know there was and still is something very special about Tal.  I regret that I never got to meet him in person etc.  Still if your just into the pure chess side of things the book is also good.  He did play lots of great players and his career spanned a long time.  So consider with great care picking up this book.  I enjoy just reading this book, him talking about the games though is priceless.What happens next you will have to get book to read :).  The popular Hippo story is also a favorite of many of his fans.  He talks about other not so happy topics as well.  I had wrote a really long review for this book some time ago.  Yet for some reason it got deleted so hope this one works out better.  I have some other books from Tal I have yet to review as well.  Reason it takes so long to review them is there is so much to the books.  Makes it very difficult to explain just how good the book is.  Maybe I am biased cuz Tal is one of my favorite players.  Yet I really do not use any of his openings or anything.  Just from this book and other things I guess it helped create a strong liking.  I am not sure I can really explain it.  Yet I know there was and still is something very special about Tal.  I regret that I never got to meet him in person etc.  Still if your just into the pure chess side of things the book is also good.  He did play lots of great players and his career spanned a long time.  So consider with great care picking up this book.  I enjoy just reading this book, him talking about the games though is priceless.	2002-01-31
US	47855748	R2NF5LFSXFX8XG	1857442857	257398838	Winning Unorthodox Openings (Everyman Chess)	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Deceptive Book...	The name of this book I find to be deceptive also the claims a bit much.  What bothers me is that the author decides what is playable and what is not.  The Grob is one of the more popular of the odd openings.  So to just dismiss that or not really cover a3 properly is wrong.  Fine used to play a3 at times and did rather well with it to be honest.  The move is deeper and not so easy for people to understand.  I myself have played it and won with it even against a computer.  I could not give this book 1 star cuz it did not really have any clear errors.  I could not rate it as average because of the falty claims and taking sides.  If your gonna make a book winning with unusual openings.  Tossing some away as not good is a bit pointless.  The problem is not having enough pages to even attempt a book like this.  So if nothing else you know your gonna get a sub par product in return.  I would just get game collections of weird openings and break down lines from there.  If you really feel you have an interest in one of them, get a book more focused on them.  The Killer Grob is a good place for some to start.  Im really not a fan of any of these openings.  Still Im rather open minded about odd openings and interested in the psychology.  I used to always play 1 g3 which isnt that normal really.  The book should not just dismiss certan things so easily.  Thats a problem many have when talking about openings.  They say a3 is garbage white can have no chance of maintaining advantage.  Or that is just white playing as black etc and all this.  The move is only bad if you do not have a plan behind it basically.  Granted a3 is better than h4, that don't mean h4 can't be useful.  I bet money that most esp U1800 have no set system against many odd openings.  So the psychological attack behind them can't be simply blown off.  A good book on this topic would give best known theory and new ideas on these openings.  Then leave it to the reader what can or can not be played.  By already deciding he is tainting the reader with ideas against those openings.  So how can you think of winning with them if told they can't be played.<br />A better idea to divide them might be to have a section for very insane moves.  Perhaps stuff like a4, h4, Na3 and Nh3 would fit into there.  Maybe put g4 in with b4, mix g3 in with b3 stuff like that.  Rather than just saying this is not playable and this is.  I think you will gain more from just looking over games played with openings.  If none really exist on stuff like h4 and a4, well then study tactics.  Or try to play transposing into some opening where you might play one of those moves.  Many times playing weird opening idea is to get out of book.  So not sure how much a book can really help you play those.  Stuff like g4 and b4 perhaps has more coverage.  Even stuff like b3 and g3, not to mention f4.  So those openings you can probably get a decent book on.  Even Nc3 might have a decent book out there, or a3.  I honestly can't think of any off hand though.  Least there are some fair amount of games using those openings.  Might be best to check this book out in bookstore before ordering.  Make sure it has enough coverage on openings you might wanna play that are &quot;weird&quot; or &quot;unorthodox&quot;, etc.	2002-01-16
US	47855748	R3CTQ2LT28TKKZ	1901983080	158307975	John Nunn's Chess Puzzle Book	Books	1	12	63	N	N	Over Priced Over Rated!	This is just an over priced puzzle book at best.  You can get much better books for your money.  If you want a real puzzle book try John Emms Ultimate Puzzle book with 1001 puzzles.  That is more than 4 times as many puzzles as this book has.  Also it is a bigger book and easier to read etc.  Like most Nunn books this one is over rated.  Maybe if this was a 10 dollar book it would not be so bad.  Yet for about 20 bucks its hardly worth that much.  Spend your money smarter, this book just is not worth the price.  Get the other book I mentioned and you will gain more for your dollar.  Also with more than 4 times as many puzzles its hard to not get helped more.  Not to mention Emms is a bettr player than Nunn ever was or will be.	2002-01-14
US	47855748	RH5DG2GB9PX94	1857441257	524246438	Chess Middlegames: Essential Knowledge	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Compact Book...	This is a great compact book, covering important middlegame concepts.  Mostly of the tactical nature, such things as double blow, double attack etc.  The book is broken into lots of small chapters so looking things up is pretty easy.  What is important is that you learn basic concepts that you can expand on.  He shows examples from games and other sources, teaching the idea as well as showing.  This is almost a crib notes book to help you in the middlegame.  If your over 2000 this book might not really be much use to you.  I figure anyone U1800 can least learn something from this book.  Just about anyone should be able to follow along and understand it.  The book might only be 100 pages about, yet the content is better than most books that size.  The Endgame Book in this series is also worth picking up.  I think everyone should own a copy of this book.  The price isnt really that bad for what you get in return.  Not sure there is a better general idea middlegame book on market.  If there is one, I really can't think of it.  I have Art of Middlegame as well, which is a bit more advanced.  This book is one of best gifts that I ever got to be honest.	2002-01-12
US	47855748	RCGOK384XOP5D	0684801213	745472004	The Chess Doctor: Surefire Cures for What Ails Your Game	Books	1	3	31	N	N	Bad Medicine!!!	This doctor has nothing but Bad Medicine for your game.  If you think you got problems before this book, your gonna have even more after.  First you will realize after a while that you just wasted your money :)...  Then you will already of lost a few games hoping for something in this book to happen.  The reason this is the first review should be a warning sign.  Nobody that bought this book wants to admit it and review it.  They are hoping someone else will make the same mistake so they can laugh at them.  I really don't care if you wanna waste your money go for it.  Just ask yourself why a book this old has no reviews yet if its worth getting.  That should help you make your decision where to spend your money.	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R1ZM6WTUTWKD8R	0671795007	701221319	Chess Target Practice: Battle Tactics for Every Square on the Board (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	8	16	N	N	Too Bad and Basic...	This book is just too basic to be of any real use...  The comments that Bruce makes are also a bit annoying on a few problems etc...  Also I think they fail to capture the real point sometimes as well.  If your rated about 800 and wanna make it to maybe 1000.  Thats about as far as this book can take you at best to be honest.  Try a book like The Mammoth book of Chess, or Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess.  Just to name to starter books that would help you more.  If you wanna be another stepping stone for someone.  Then by all means invest and waste your money in this book.	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R2X8EQQA1NJX4I	067179499X	37630913	More Chess Openings: Traps and Zaps 2 (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	15	23	N	N	Trap and Zap your Wallet 2!	That is right this is Trap and Zap your Wallet part 2!!!  The first book was bad enough to say the very least.  Some Patzers talked good about the first book is the funy part.  Even those Patzers seemed to realize that this book was bad.  So even if people with no clue can realize how bad this book is.  Don't you think that should be a hint to you as well??  Basically if your dumb enough to buy this book.  I really can't save you, cuz your beyond help.  Try drinking or getting a real chess book if you wanna get better.  Go on ICC watch the Mr. Spock lectures, they will help you perhaps.  The only thing this book helps, is Pandolfini if your patzer enough to buy it...	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R3MOPB8TPGHXZU	0671619837	518162904	Let's Play Chess: A Step-By-Step Guide for All First-Time Players (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Not worth Getting.	This book really is not worth getting, its just a step by step waste.  Just spend the money on Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess if your a starter.  This book is just a black hole to your wallet and will hinder you.  You can read the other review and decide for yourself.  I really don't care I own 50 chess books and I went from about 800 rating to 1600.  All that in a about 6 months if that long.  So you can really decide what you wanna do, I doubt anyone will even read this review.  Basically you can get lot better starter books than this one.  So do yourself a favor and by smarter quality over quantity.  I have bought a few books I wish I didn't.  I had to learn the hard way, you can learn the easy way.	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R1HBS10IDEO9MB	0671701851	189447936	More Chessercizes: Checkmate: 300 Winning Strategies for Players of All Levels	Books	1	3	15	N	N	Weak Outdated Puzzle Book.	This book might of been worth something about 20 years ago.  Now it is just an outdated relic to say the very least.  If you wanna get a bad puzzle book, then this is a good place to start. If you want to get something that actually has this thing called quality.  Then Id advice you to get the Ultimate Puzzle Book by John Emms.  Not only a real author, but a much better player than Pandolfini ever was.  Also more important is that it is newer and many unique puzzles.  It is up to you, pay for quality, or be cheap.  Buy this book if that is what you wish to do.  Be warned this is closer to a 1 star book than a 5 star book.	2002-01-10
US	47855748	RLL3AQCIKBV7H	0684801205	808003268	Power Mates: Essential Checkmating Strategies and Techniques	Books	1	0	20	N	N	Fools Mate!	If you got this book you fell into Fool's Mate!  Basically this book is 300 pages and only has 70 puzzles ;)...  So tell me if you think that is a bit cheesy :)...  He fills in spaces with some bad annotations.  I find it funny for a no talent bum like him to annotate games.  Like what did Pandolfini ever do, I never see his games in databases.  I search for openings and I can't recall seeing any of his games ever.  Yet this no talent bum writes book after book.  Charges I hear 200 dollars an hour to be a chess coach.  You can learn more about mating from Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess to be honest.  Basically this book is an essential checkmate of your wallet.  It is priced to make people who are cheap to consider buying this book.  Basically its 70 game collection trying to pass itself off as a book on mating.  So it is up to you what you decide to do with your well earned or ill gotten cash.  Basically I have about 100 chess books, so you decide who you listen to.  Really matters not to me, what you end up doing.  Waste your time on this book, ......	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R36S649DSSUMDJ	0671884247	511438615	Square One: A Chess Drill Book for Beginners (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	6	19	N	N	Stay at Square 1.	Basically after you buy this book you will end up on square 1 if your lucky :)...  All it does is ask you questions basically does not teach you a thing.  I was amazed that a book this bad actually got printed.  I don't know why they keep printing awful books from the same author.  Did someone lose a bet to this guy and have to print these things?  Maybe he owns the publishing company that would seem the only way.  If you read the review about the guy rated 1000.  If this book did not help him, don't expect it to help you.  What makes me laugh is a few morons give this book decent review.  Those are the people when I play I look over to see Im up a Rook and Knight.  Not to mention 2 pawns without any pieces of mine off board.  All this under 10 moves, thats where this book will take you to.  If you wanna get this book as a joke, maybe its worth money.  Yet if your thinking of learning anything, hahaha the jokes on you :)...	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R1OK1AVW74ANQG	0684839490	282400652	The Winning Way: The How What and Why of Opening Strategems (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	1	13	N	N	How to Lose Fast.	If you wanna learn to lose really fast this is a great book for that.  Maybe it will help you beat someone rated in the 600-900 range at best.  I really do not know why they print books that are this bad.  I think it is to make sure some people just never get better at chess.  By some games that I play it seems like it has worked on a few people.  Basically the only value from this book is comical.  Not cuz of anything the writer wrote, but cuz its just so bad.  You look in book and at positions and some of the moves.  Hard to stop from bursting out in laughter over how absurd and bad the moves are.  So throw your money away on this book if thats what you wanna do.  You can lead a horse to water but you can't make them drink.  You can drop your kid off at school but can't make him learn.  Enjoy this review, its written better than this book.	2002-01-10
US	47855748	R2CMWZSIWXOLQ7	0671656880	492646508	Pandolfini's Endgame Course: Basic Endgame Concepts Explained by America's Leading Chess Teacher (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	6	22	N	N	End Your Game...	I just can't deal with typos, maybe thats just me.  Well let us just say this book has its share.  There are better endgame books on the market.  Maybe this would confuse more than help a novice cuz of the errors.  If your used to rushed out books with what lumps some positions as common.  Jacks in a few lines that have errors and are not even checked sometimes.  Then you would just love this book to death.  The price is not so bad for the book, so least that is something.  So if you wanna get a thrifty book over a good one, go for this one.  You can get a bunch of books from this black hole.  Most smart people just avoid books from this author.  So to anyone that does not know better, be very weary getting books from this guy.	2002-01-04
US	47855748	R2WE7PM9L0UEF4	067170186X	949421983	Pandolfini's Chess Complete: The Most Comprehensive Guide to the Game, from History to Strategy (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	4	20	N	N	Chess Complete Garbage...	Basically this book isnt worth the trees that were killed for the paper.  If you really wanna throw your money away, why not donate to charity.  Do not give money to some bogus over rated no talent coach who writes book after book.  As you read the stupid questions asked, you ask yourself what was I thinking.  The final question in this book is &quot;What is born every minute?&quot;.  You can answer this question two ways, buy this book, or realize the truth...	2002-01-04
US	47855748	R3593YY0LWMS9H	0940685809	793806524	Complete Defense To Queen Pawn Openings (Cardoza Publishing's Essential Opening Repertoire Series)	Books	1	8	27	N	N	Awful Book Cover and Content...	When you first see this book you figure, well the content has to be better than the cover.  As amazing as it might sound, the content is even worse.  The amount of errors really baffled me and stressed me out.  Trying to look up things and the entire layout is just awful.  How awful books like this get published is beyond my knowledge.  Perhaps someone lost a bet or Schiller owns their soul.  Maybe if your a 900 player this would help you break 1000.  If your getting this book thinking your gonna be able to defend d4.  I guess your gonna have to find out the hard way how shoddy this book is.  A bad chess player that writes awful books is a scary thing.  I think Ken Smith and Schiller should start their own club.  Donate your money to a good charity or buy yourself something worth having.  The only use this book has is the hope of being burned when no logs are left.	2002-01-04
US	47855748	R37NCJREWTZ4E0	0671795023	509291135	Chess Thinking: The Visual Dictionary of Chess Moves, Rules, Strategies and Concepts (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Buyer Beware...	The name is a bit deceptive to say the very least...  More of a book explaining terms and filled with useless things...  Maybe Pandolfini has a few good books, this is not one of them...  Perhaps someone that is very new to the game could learn something from this...  Yet they will not get better from or because of this book...  If you want something with chess thinking this isnt the best book...  Maybe Art of Attack, Art of Middlegame, Sorcerer's Apprentice, Zurich 1953, Advances Since Nimzo, Tal Life and Games and Botvinnik one hundred selected games...  Would help you more with that aspect of the game just to name a few books...  Well it is your money so if you wanna spend it on this book...  Nobody is gonna stop you, just remember you were warned...  Do not get this book thinking its gonna help you formulate an iron clad strategy...  Nor that it will help your tactical or positional play...  Basically all this will help is lesson your bank account...  Perhaps waste some time of yours reading it as well...	2002-01-04
US	47855748	R3FVKOTADCAIRH	0940685930	962114685	Encyclopedia Of Chess Wisdom (Chess books)	Books	1	15	19	N	N	Encyclopedia of Spelling Errors...	You can read some of the other reviews to get an idea of some of the specific errors...  The book is loaded with them from wrong moves to other typos...  How can this book help anyone if half the battle is trying to figure out whats going on...  He has quotes from people in years that they already were dead...  Games with wrong year and people listed...  Sad that they still publish books from this author...  I do not understand why they let books out with so many errors...  When I buy a chess book I expect it to have almost no errors...  This book has more errors than actual things that help players...  If you give this to someone and tell them to find all the errors...  They woudl probably have grandkids and still not find them all...  I dunno what he means by Golden Nuggets...  I think more work went into thinking of name of book than content...  Books like this give chess books a bad name to say very least...  If you want a book on chess strategy try Watson's Advances since Nimzo...  Even The Mammoth Book of Chess will help you more than this item...  Perhaps even consider Silman's Strategy Grandmaster Techniques from A to Z book.  Hopefully one of those books might help you in your game and give you value for your dollar...	2002-01-04
US	47855748	RTPMKYEEWKJ4K	0671795015	767057522	Beginning Chess: Over 300 Elementary Problems for Players New to the Game	Books	2	51	77	N	N	Makes a nice Log for Fire...	When the fire was about to die, and no logs were left.  I looked around the house for something I could toss on.  Lucky for me I still had a copy of this book.  I would of given this book 1 star, but it burned rather well.  Honestly this book is just a bit below average.  There are much better starter books to help your chess.  The Mammoth Book of Chess and Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess just to name a few...  Also perhaps just getting a good puzzle book like the one from John Emms.  The huge Chess book from Polgar would be a wiser choice.  Least the price is not bad if you insist on buying this book.	2002-01-04
US	47855748	R2M6J3K8Q9AQMM	1879479710	138721568	Beating the King's Indian and Benoni	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good Average Book...	This seems like a prety good book, granted with some gaps...  Still if you thought about using four pawns attack this is a good place to start...  Granted the book has some gaps cuz you can't fit everything vs. just the KID even if the entire book was about beating just that...  So your gonna have to learn and do certain things on your own...  What is important is the author uses what he writes about...  Not only that, but he scores rather well with it...  Unlike some authors that write about openings they never used in their lives...  Much less scored anything worth a mention with them...<br />     Chapter 1 deals with the main line with 9...Re8 and gives two examples how to reach position...  Taking one from KID and one from Modern Benoni...  He gives 5 examples mostly from his games where he wins...  I think 4 out of 5 are from his own games and 3 of them he wins...  The games are annotated rather well and should provide help...  Chapter 2 deals with main line with 9...Bg4 and has 4 games...  Again mostly his games 3/4 and he improves upon the 1 loss in chapter...  Chapter 3 consists of main line with 9...b5 and rare moves...  Only two games in this chapter and white wins both...  None of Vaisser's own games this time however...  So chapters 1-3 deal with systems that are common in both KID and Modern Benoni...<br />   Next part of the book part 2 deals with systems specific to KID...  Chapter 4 black plays 6...Na6 and has two game examples...  One from Vaisser and another from one of the Polgar sisters...  This time white wins and draws but his game was the draw...  He explains a few errors that he made in the game that cost him the victory...  Chapter 5 deals with the Pseudo-Benko gambit 7...b5 with one example...  White wins this one which is no real surprise...  Chapter 6 deals with other systems for black and has 2 games...  Yes white wins both of these games if you could not guess ;)...<br />   Part 3 deals with systems specific with the Modern Benoni...  Chapter 7 deals with the Taimanov system Bb5+ and has 2 game examples...  White wins both games but neither game is one the author played...  Chapter 8 deals with the Mikens attack 8 e5 with 1 example...  Not one of the authors but this time black actually wins...  Yet he gives the move that would of won the game for White...  The final page has the index of variations... I would of liked to see some coverage directly of d4 c5 Benoni to be honest...  The title of book says beating the King's Indian and Benoni...  It does not say only Modern Benoni so I think that is a bit misleading perhaps...  The book is a bit on the pricey side for only 144 pages...<br />    I would of probably given this book 4 stars if it was not so White biased...  Granted it says beating the systems but maybe it was a bit too white...  Also even some limited coverage vs d4 c5 would of helped its rating...  As in perhaps least a chapter would of been nice...  Still if your intersted in playing the four pawns pick this book up...  Im not sure how much it really will help you as black...  I think this is a good average book...	2002-01-02
US	47855748	R1TOSFLTBJW2B8	0671656902	921104129	Chess Openings: Traps And Zaps (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Awful Misleading...	The name of this book is Awful misleading to say the very least...  You would think that it would go over common traps that actually happen in games...  Not just toss in a string of blunders and say oh this is the move etc...  What amazes me is that people that gave this negative review would rate it as high as 3 stars...  That is saying this is an average chess book, which it is not...  You would think just seeing people state about error on first diagram would be enough...  If you can't even start a book out right, what good is it...  Books like this trap people into never getting better...  How can you expect a novice to get better with so many typos??  If someone barely knows what they are doing, printing mistakes is only gonna make matters worse...  Trust me you can spend your money on much better books...  Your better off getting .pgn files of certain openings...  Check out those games see if anyone falls into any traps...  Get a book like Mammoth Book of Chess or even Emms Ultimate Puzzle book...  Or Averbakh essential series on Endgame or Middle game...  Just to give you some ideas where your money would be better spent...  Only book that might be worth getting from Pandolfini is the 101 outrageous Fischer moves...  How anyone could give this book 4 or 5 stars is beyond me...  I guess thats reason some people are so bad at Chess...  Try to stick to authors like Emms, Gallagher, Tal, Alekhine, Botvinnik, Fischer, Averbakh, Bronstein and maybe Burgess...  Where you spend your money is up to you...  If you want to ignore this and get book, thats fine with me...  If anything if I face you in a game you will be easier to beat wasting time on this book :)...  The real Trap is buying this book, while the Zap is on your wallet :)...	2002-01-01
US	47855748	RR1X3SHI14O3A	1901259099	477913258	The Trompowsky (Chess Press Opening Guides)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good Book With Gaps...	Good book with some gaps that come up rather on regular basis not covered...  Still not many books are out on this topic and it does have value...  Basically if you like Hodgson you most likely will like this book...  Many of his games are covered in here and that is a treat within itself...  Gallagher does maybe 2 pages on the Levitsky Attack(Queen's Bishop Attack)...  Many just call it the Pseudo Tromp...  Basically moves usually go d4 d5 Bg5 but also this setup works well vs. the Dutch...  The author seems honest and does not make it seem nothing can stop this opening... Still he shows it is very playable and perhaps one of the better d4 openings...  The summaries at the end of chapters makes it easier to navigate...  Unlike some opening books that just clump stuff and do not say much...  The author should at least give what he thinks is good or not etc...  Some sort of short synapse, which he does...  The annotations of the games might be worth the price of the book alone...  I can't give it 5 stars cuz of the lack of coverage in areas...  Still for a 144 page book you can't really expect complete coverage...  The cover says Opening Guides which is pretty accurate...  Cuz this book is more of a guide to give ideas than complete...  Still you should be able to understand and play Tromp better from this book...  The gaps in coverage you will have to fill yourself or find games from other players to...  Basically 4 stars cuz its just not a mindless dump of data...  Gallagher really does seem to have a passion for this opening...  Also the limited coverage of Levitsky attack is nice to see...  What I find very important is he does give basic ideas about opening...  How White's b pawn tends to be weak and thats where black usually attacks...  Also how in many games White does knights vs bishops...  Black even gains Bishop pair in many games, so this isnt for the faint of heart...  If you are ready to realize the full potential of your Knights go for it...  If your not good with your knights, this opening might not be the one for you...  This opening is good if you enjoy having the harder to predict attacking chances with your knights...  Some of best players in history have used their Knights...  Fischer was a master with his knights and that helped seperate him from the rest...  Also many like Kasparov and he is obsessed with his knights...  Many players always want bishop pair and never try openings like this one...  This is not an easy opening that someone passive will win with...  If your a boring stonewall player, you might not like this...  Or other systems like the Colle and Catalan...  So think hard if you can handle this opening before trying and buying this book...	2002-01-01
US	47855748	RVLB45WJLH1FT	0805029354	798768145	Winning With the Scandinavian (Batsford Chess Library)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Outdated and Shody coverage...	I will say this book is very outdated to say the very least... Still maybe for 9 dollars its not a bad idea to consider picking it up...  Basically this book does not even know about the Portugeuse Gambit...  Also it does not cover many lines that you run into with Scandy...  Not to mention the covrage of the Icelandic Gambit(Palme) should of been more than 7 pages...  They do not cover weird second moves by white, which is really annoying to say least...  Also they do not have anything for 3 Nf3 by white, which happens more than other moves listed...  How can you call a book Winning with something if you lack decent coverage of it...  The book has about 8 pages for the Scandanavian Gambit, which really should get more...  They give the Panov-Botvinnik attack about 13 pages...  So if that is something you need to look at, that might be useful...  So this is about an average book on the topic...  Your most likely better off getting the Scandanavian book by Emms...  Still for 9 dollars this might be worth it if you can find it...	2001-12-31
US	47855748	R278CXRFAHVS2	1857442210	308167756	Nunn's Chess Openings (Everyman Chess Series)	Books	1	10	56	N	N	Nunnskull Awful Book...	I got this book thinking it would actually have something useful within it...  Basically this is just a big book that is a waste of money...  Many lines are all ready out dated, also he does not even cover certain openings...  Many of which are seen more times than people realize...  The layout of the book is awful at best...  The way you look up the lines and other things is badly setup...  The gaps in coverage come very early and you realize you wasted your $$$...  If this is an attempt of having all openings in one book...  It is a bad failure to say the very least...  Since this book I have decided to never ever buy a book from Nunn again...  He is one of the most over rated chess authors to ever hit the scene...  Also as a player he is nothing special to say the very least...  Him and his team of Batsford bandits ripped off Fischer's book...  They had to change his words enough so he couldnt sue, so they made him say whilst and many other misnomers...  I try to never buy any batsford books cuz many are sub par besides that point...  Basically if you want a book to beat someone with...  This is a great one for that, if you wanna win at chess, this wont help much...  People can say all they want about this or that, basically this book has no real value...  Anyone that would tell someone to get this book, should be drowned at birth...  Basically there are much better chess books to spend your money on...  Id advice MCO if you need an opening book such as this...  Perhaps if the layout of the book and coverage was better...  Instead its not much more than data dumps from computers and some lines from games...  This book will not make you a better player...  IF you wanna spend money on books try stuff like Sorcerer's Apprentice, Tal his life and games, Art of the Middlegame, etc...  Maybe when this book came out it had some use...  Right now its just a relic and should be cast aside...  Sorta like when people put their parent in a nursing home...  Well think of it as Nursinghome Chess Openings and dont waste the money...  If your reading this review its a sign this book isnt for you...  If your &quot;advanced&quot; as people try to cling to...  Then you will just get the book you wont read reviews...  Sadly you will find out hard way how awful this book is :)...	2001-12-31
US	47855748	R2T6I0YH65U8LG	0486415783	158813471	Counter Gambits (Dover Chess)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	For Price Worth Picking Up...	Basically I give it 3 stars cuz its average at best book...  Nothing really that makes it worth any higher rating...  Yet the price I would say makes it a 3 Star book worth thinking about picking up...  This is mostly the older versions of the book but there is about 18 pages added for 2001 update...  He does not cover certain gambits that I wish he would...  Such as the Icelandic(Palme) Gambit and Portugeuse...  Others that are left out I do not really mind so much...  I did learn that Benko gambit was called Volga Gambit...  Also that at a tourny when first unleashed it had 10 wins and 5 draws no loses...  So reading that in the past edition of book was rather interesting...  Especially since at time of original it was not so widely used...  I mostly got it for gambits vs. d4...  Some of the gambits I found sorta interesting/worth looking at vs it are as follows...  The Henning-Schara, Indian counter gambits such as budapest, Blumenfield, Nimzo Indian defense, Gruenfeld, Modern Benoni, Volga Gambit, Quasi-Volga Gambit, Albin-Counter Gambit, Englund(no real coverage), also some gambits vs. english...  Yet nothing really worth mention other then Bellon...  Which Bellon really isnt worth mentioning probably...  Still it is not the best book, but you may find it interesting...  Has coverage of Falkbeer counter gambit and Latvian as you might expect...  Dover makes some decent cheap books...  This book is about 223 pages so you get a decent value for you dollar...  I would say if you want some ideas of gambits as black to use vs white...  Take a look at this book and decide for yourself...	2001-12-31
US	47855748	R33QSQI4C8VJLC	190198334X	21379529	The Ultimate Chess Puzzle Book	Books	4	10	21	N	N	Good Solid Puzzle Book...	Lets keep this in perspective this is a good puzzle book...  This is not the Rapture or anything monumental...  It has 1001 puzzles and is a nice size to look at...  Sometimes you get books and they are sorta small and its hard to see the pages...  While this book is a bit expensive to be honest...  Least it is a pretty nice size and its easy to see the pictures in the book... Also to hold its not like a small paperback always fighting to keep it open...  I like how it has little tests in the book so it makes it more interesting to do...  Least you can try to make a better score and that helps keep things from basically getting too boring...  I think his explanation of some tactical ideas in start of book could of been better...  Many of the examples were of poor quality...  I think he should of taken a basic example and a more advanced...  That way you would learn how it applies in actual games at higher level...  I think that would really help someone's tactical understanding...  Still for a puzzle book at least he did make some attempt...  The only reason not to get this book might be the price...  Also maybe he could of did a few more endgame puzzles...  I like the way he arranged the checkmate puzzles...  Its not all the same in a row, he mixes it up and gives both sides...  I think that is more usefull than all mates in 1 and 2 and 3 etc...  Helps make a person think more also simulates a real game more...  Your not always told how many moves the mate is...  So your forced to think on your own, instead of having half the answer...  Some might get annoyed having to think more...  I find it more useful than knowing what to do each time exactly...  If the price does not bother you, then by all means purchase this book...	2001-12-31
US	47855748	R3SMUFBJI0LTKM	1857442679	55695547	Attacking with 1e4 (Everyman Chess)	Books	3	7	34	N	N	Average attacks with e4...	Sorry nothing against the author, but my friend has this book...  I will have to say they talk about using the KIA against the french...  They cover the Bishop opening and not something like King's Gambit...  You would think with name like attacking it would be more bold systems perhaps...  Its clear this book is a bit over priced and has many gaps...  Im really not sure if this book can help anyone attack better with e4...  For the money you would spend on this book you could get much better...  Perhaps something like The Complete Book of Chess Strategy by Silman...  For your money that is a much better buy and will help your game...  Also it is 384 pages and cheaper than this book... I do not like the systems he decides to put into this book...  He talks about whats going on and ideas, so for that reason I have to give it at least 3 stars...  He does not just dump lines and say nothing like some books...  So perhaps that might help a player, this book isnt for me...  Try to look in book and see whats in it a bit...  Take a look at the chapters, maybe look at it in book store...  I would never tell anyone to get this book to be honest...  Yet I think it deserves to be thought of at least an average book...  Just because I do not like the systems he covers...  Does not mean that they might not help someone else...  If you play KIA against french this is a good book for you to get...  If Bishop opening is something that you use, then this book might help you...  If you want a book from Emms that is of higher quality Id get the Ultimate Puzzle Book...  I think you will gain more from that book than this one...  Also you might wish to get The Scandanavian by him as well...  Those are much better samples of the kinds of books that he writes...  This is not one of his better works in all honesty...  I think he is a good chess author, not every hit is a homerun...  So be sure this book is something you want before investing in it...	2001-12-31
US	47855748	R3SEO75BSB2KFM	0486249417	550883845	My Best Games of Chess, 1908 - 1937	Books	5	5	18	N	Y	Great Book...	First to warn the frail minded about the notation in this book...  If you can't deal with descriptive notation than beware of this :)...  Still even if you can't figure out what the moves mean...  Just reading the book is rather interesting, also its 2 books in 1...  The price is rather affordable for just about anyone...  The writing style is rather easy to follow and at times give the reader insight into what his thoughts were...  I know many say he had ties to certain people and all this...   This book is about his chess and mostly what he did at the chess board...  The name Alekhine Defense I think is sorta confusing since not many if any of those games are in this book...  From name you would think that he played it lot more often than he actually did...  So do not get this book thinking your gonna learn that defense :)...  Granted the cover isnt the best color, nor is the picture the best...  Still its not a bad book to leave on your coffee table or something...  Ive not read my book in a while at all...  Yet I see it at least once a day, just one of those classic books...  Im not really sure this book will help your game to be honest...  Still just reading his words I find rather interesting...  Many remember him as beating the one who many still think was best ever...  Sadly he died before giving Capablanca a rematch, so people speculate he would of lost and got lucky...  Also I think Alekhine was the one that brought preparation to new levels in chess...  So I guess many could hate him for that reason...  Just think of this book as part of history...  If you wish to read and learn a bit and feel what it was like...  That choice is up to you...	2001-12-29
US	47855748	R3RU89U8OLXM81	0486238008	144755745	Zurich International Chess Tournament, 1953 (Dover Chess)	Books	4	3	21	N	N	Well Written Book About Tourny...	This book is rather well written and fun to just read without playing over...  Bronstein at the time was considered a top chess player...  He even could of beat Botvinnik if not for politics and giving in to pressure and throwing a game...  Yes even in this book he hints a bit about match fixes and the shady side of chess...  How certain games he was going for a &quot;Draw&quot; and other little hints...  Basically the real Iron Curtain exists in the Chess world...  How once the Soviets got the title they did everything to keep it...  Still it was nice they used to have tournies like this...  The winner of this would challenge the world champion for it all...  Unlike today where they have a sham of a FIDE KO...  Then you have Kaspy and Kramnik one K short of their true colors...  Last and not least the real World Champion Bobby Fischer...  So unless chess goes back to a tourny such as Zurich 1953 it will continue to die...  So it is nice to go back in time and read a book about chess...  Not just chess but a tournament when the World Champion would play winner...  Where there was more of a agreed upon champion...  Some games he gives no coverage to since they deserve none...  That is another great thing about this book...  He does not waste time going over games that were not played...  Or perhaps that he knows or realized were prearranged...  Or more simply just games that the players took an easy and safe draw...<BR>   Why only 4 stars, basically cuz of lack of opening coverage... Yeah you see all the ones played, I had to make my own index for openings...  That was rather annoying, while at same time I learned something...  So many of the games were Queen's Gambit and almot all declined were lost or drawn for black...  So that really made me think about how I play those sorts of games...  Also of interest is there is least one game KIA is played in this tourny...  I think a few Grunfeld games and other interesting things...  So many Ruy Lopez games, where most Ithink ended in draws...  That helped me decide to avoid using that opening cuz of high draw percentage...  I think black might of won more than it lost also, Id have to check notes...  Still that is really not important...  Granted none of these players are Fischer, it was still a good field...  Unlike lot of tournies today where you have dead weight or draw artists...  Also that token girl thrown in with the guys...  Still the older GM vs. younger female player tourny I think was interesting...  I heard after 10 years it was canceled, thats really a shame...  This book is priced so just about anyone can afford it...  I think if you care about the mental part of chess...  Whats going on in someone's mind and other factors...  Then you should pick this book up, just be ready to make own opening index :)...	2001-12-29
US	47855748	R3ABS4YPGQBZJ0	1886846103	139379710	Center Counter Defense: The Portuguese Variation	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Average at Best...	I will say this might be the best book on the topic that is currently out...  Yet it is not the only book and is a bit pricey for gaps that it has...  I find the notation to be very annoying at best...  I can not stand when they do Nd5 instead of Nxd5 and stuff like that...  The book does not cover certain 4th moves by white at all to say least...  Chapter 1 deals with 4 Be2 and is about 13 pages long...  He considers this the &quot;Quiet&quot; attempt to defuse black...  Chapter 2 has the &quot;Sharp&quot; which deals with 4 f3 lines and is about 23 pages long...  Chaper 3 he calls the &quot;Positional&quot; with 4 Nf3 and is about 18 pages long...  Chapter 4 is what he calls the &quot;Subtle&quot; which deals with 4 Bb5+ and is about 1 page long...  Chapter 5 is a bit of a waste of the book to say least...  It deals with White's Third Move...  Which wastes about 20 pages on what isnt Portugeuse Variation...  There are much better books for this and those pages wasted could of been used for more important things...  For example the 4 Be2 lines happen more than f3 lines and about same as Nf3 lines...  Yet only 13 pages at best of coverage is stupid...  Also chapter 4 he only has like 1 page on the Bishop check lines...  Thats pretty pathetic for an opening book thats sposed to focus on this variation...  Why have 20 pages with other 3rd moves in it??  The point of getting this book is cuz you want to play 1 e4 d5 2. exd5 Nf6 3 d4 Bg4...  If white dont play d4 as his third move its not Portugeuse in its pure form at least...  Also left out were moves such as 4 Ne2 and 4 Qd3 just to name two moves that happen without any coverage in this book...  Least anything that I have noticed to be honest...<BR>     Another problem is he used fritz 4 I think for lots of his lines...  So expect lot of useless data dumps from a computer already out dated...  Thats a bit minor though, Ill get to more important things...  He does not really give a summary talking about what lines seem best for black...  You really have to try to figure out things for yourself...  It is the authors job to give things at end of chapter to help people on way...  The way the book is put together isnt easy to follow...  The back is a lie it says &quot;This book is the first devoted exclusively to the Portuguese variation.&quot;  Now if thats true why have gaps as early as move 4 by white and have 20 pages on white's third moves???<BR>   I have been breaking down and working over games on this and Icelandic(Palme) gambit for about 3 months...  This book is probably only worth 2 stars to be honest...  Yet since it is almost the only book on this topic I rated it as average book... The only real use I have for this book is to augment myself on lines Ive already pulled from actual games...  Also to compare with other info I have on this topic...<BR>     The index of variations at the back of the book seems rather useful...  If the notation was the proper kind that should be used it would be a solid 3 stars perhaps...  Since it is Qd5 instead of Qxd5 garbage notation...  I would say at best this book really should be 2.5 stars...  Sadly if you want a book on this topic, this seems just about only choice...  I have not had chance to check for errors in the book...  I will say the text is easy to read I find...  The big knock is if you see a variation and dont know exchanges cuz he dont use X's...  Makes it difficult to in your head have a solid idea of what is going on...  My main knock is the gaps in coverage, lack of decent summaries and the horrible no X's in notation...  So realize you will have to do a lot of work to get full value from this book... This is best to augment your own work on the topic than a book that will teach you to master it...  This is more of a 66 page book (content) on variation than 96 pages...  You have about 30 pages of waste keep in mind...	2001-12-28
US	47855748	RRBWJYPKF67UM	0786707259	802846210	The Mammoth Book of Chess with Internet Games: New Edition Featuring Internet and Computer Games (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Get This Book...	I think everyone should own or buy a copy of this book for someone...  Esp if they are starting out in the chess world or around 1200-1500 or low STR...  This book is a great little bit of everything kinda book...  Has coverage on attack and defense, some tactical and endgame puzzles...  Also gives basic few moves of most openings that matter with some games for them...  So you can least find a basic idea of what path you wanna go towards the opening etc...  Some of the lines he says might not be the best, but they are not awful either...  He has a style that is pretty easy to read to say least...  You dont find yourself thinking how boring and awful he is etc...  Its nice cuz he has about 40 mid level tactic puzzles from actual games...  Then follows up with about 25 puzzles for more advanced players taken from actual games as well...  He also explains in most cases pretty well why the game is over or what to do if this move...  The book is huge, while the price is not...  This was the first chess book I bought, I got a copy from library and rest is history...  Ive bought this book for a friend also I got him Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess...  Helped get him to play at least something that resembled Chess ;)...  Maybe he could of had a few more endgame puzzles, but its not a real problem...  He left out at least 1 good opening for white, but can only fit so much into 1 book...  Also I dont mind that he left out Levitsky Attack personally :)...  Still for the price and the content, I can not think of a book that is a better over all value...  Do your self a favor, if you only ever get 1 chess book...  Make it this one...	2001-12-22
US	47855748	R3TNDR88SUOKQ7	0553263153	150393116	Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Best Starter Book on Chess...	This is the best starter book on chess that I have ever seen in my life...  Sure people can argue and say oh this book or that book might help you more...  I also think everyone should own The Mammoth Book of Chess starting out...  Here is a book that I can give my nephew and he can read and understand it...  Basically you do not have to know anything about notation, whether its algebra or out dated descriptive notation...  You look at the pictures and pick the moves and see results usually on the next page...  This book is great for back rank mates and defending vs. the back rank mate...  Also to start thinking in combos, deflection lots of things...  Even has a basic chapters on how the pieces move for those really in the dark ages...  I really like how the book has an odd setup... Basically when you read it cover to back your not done...  You gotta flip it upside down and read it back to cover :)...  Ive read the book at least 5 times and I Used to read it every so often to keep myself sorta sharp...  This book really helped me climb from around 800-1000 rating up to 1300-1600ish rating...  800ish being blitz and 1000 more standard games...  The Mammoth book of chess helped also, but this one really got me into the checkmate KO punch...  The price of the book also can not really be beat...  Its a cheap book and worth the investment if your starting out in chess...  I think everyone should own this book, every so often I still read a chapter...  Im higher in standard now, but I find it still helps keep me sharp...  Esp if I have not had a chance to play a game in a while...  I might not wanna read a heavy book etc, just looking this over gets me thinking in combos and mates etc...  So if you do not know much about chess and want an easy start...  This is the book to open the door to the game for you...  Also this is the only chess book I know that has no notation in it at all to be honest...	2001-12-22
US	47855748	R1SPIC996W25SH	0486206203	391992318	Botvinnik: One Hundred Selected Games	Books	5	10	21	N	Y	Classic Book Everyone Should Own...	First let me Warn you about the old notation... If you dont know descriptive notation, that might throw you a bit... If you can deal with that, then fine... I really personally dont like it, but there is more to this book... Botvinnik Im not a huge fan of or anything like that... Still reading this book I found a few helpful things to say least... The price is really low and anyone just about can afford it... You can get a file with all these games in modern notation so that makes it easier... This book taught me how to use a Pseudo Gruenfeld vs. (1 c4) The sad English... Just for that simple facts and the few games in book with it... I think its worth picking up...<br />To be honest I just think there are some chess books everyone should own...  The book has an endgame study at the end which might be interesting to some.  I am not sure if it is outdated or anything like that.  Still seeing how they saw things in the past can be helpful.  I like how Botvinnik talks a bit about his life besides chess.  Sure maybe some might not agree with all he says or how he said things.  Still he was World Champion I believe 3 times or something like that.  Maybe there was a dark side to some of that...  The guy in his time was one of the Best Chess players.  I am not a fan of him, still I very much enjoy my time reading this book.  I do not really care so much if the games are old and theory.  I was glad to learn to use Gruenfeld vs. English from this book...  Also the FACT a former World Champion Botvinnik used it helped convince me to give it a try.  I only wish the Gruenfeld book I bought had least 1 chapter covering using it vs. English....  If you are just looking for cutting edge modern theory, this book might not appeal to you...  If you care about chess history get this book.<br />I would say any rating can enjoy this book.  I got it as one of my early books when I was new to chess.  I did not know any notation really, so the descriptive was even more confusing to me :)...  Still even without really knowing much about the game I enjoyed the book.  Just reading it and stuff I found helped inspire me to keep playing.  Also seeing some of the human side of him was rather interesting.  Do not get this book thinking it will make you a World Champion.  Still I am sure many World Champions past and present own or have owned this book :)...	2001-12-18
US	47855748	R2FYVYU3AFRE9G	0713482222	858211845	The Ultimate King's Indian Attack	Books	1	8	67	N	N	Putrid System More Like It!	What bothers me is they waste paper writing about openings [...] like this one...  Meanwhile some openings that demand coverage have none at all to say the very least...  The fact this is second book he wrote on an awful opening is comical...  Basically he grabbed a bunch of stuff from old book, jacked in some new stuff...  Called it a new book etc, how he says powerful opening system??  I dunno if the author knows how to play chess, but KIA is weak system for white...  Your probably better off playing 1 g4 or maybe 1 a3...  Perhaps 1 Na3 is even better than the KIA...  I used to only play KIA a white, I got this book thinking it would help me even more...  To be honest I found more help playing KIA drinking than reading this book...  The games in the book are nice to look at and wonder why people would play such a bad opening as white...  Basically its too easy as black to get equal and attack early on...  Many games I found myself under attack very early and fighting to survive...  Even when Id setup the KIA, I felt only way to win was to sac a knight...  The games tend to be a bit stale and boring...  Not to mention bout 55% of the games seem potential for a draw...  Im not sure if this guy is a bad author or not to be honest...  When your writing about a system thats awful at best its difficult...  He has a book on unusual openings, yet he does not give enough coverage to Grob attack...  So makes it sorta pointless to name it that to say least...  Mostly its just for moves other than the main 3...  I dont think this guy is another Schiller or anything that bad...  Still there are much better chess books you can waste your money on to be honest...  I admit this book might be top 5 in worst books I ever bought...  Ill name some other books that are worth buying hopefully I can save 1 soul...  Sorcerer's Apprentice, Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess, Zurich 1953, Tal 1960 World Championship, Tal, My Life and Games, The Mammoth Book of Chess, Modern Chess Secrets Advances Since Nimzo, Botvinnik 100 Selected games, you get the basic idea ;)...  Any of those books is money better spent than this waste :)...Since Nimzo, Botvinnik 100 Selected games, you get the basic idea ;)...  Any of those books is money better spent than this waste :)...	2001-11-29
US	47855748	R3HUPWH0ZP2TYO	0812925297	398332398	Pawn Structure Chess	Books	1	17	77	N	Y	Pawn Structure Bust...	I got this book thinking it would help me with my pawn play... To say very least Ive found it rather a waste of my money...  The layout leaves lots to be desired personally...  Lots of the coverage in certain openings is nill at best which is rather annoying to say least...  Like he does not realize some openings even exist in chess it seems...  The typical over analised over played openings have some coverage...  Yet the coverage of the Scandanavian is nill at best to say least...  Which perhaps people at top level are afraid to use...  Yet at the club level this opening is used in many forms...  I try to be fair about the chess books I have and how I see them...  Id have to say this might be the worst one Ive ever gotten...  Bout all it taught me was Caro-Kant Pawns structure is related to the Scandanavian...  Im sure or least I hope there is a better pawn book to spend your money on...  About the only good thing I can really say about this book is if you play over used openings give it a look...  If your a person that uses opening that are not super over analised to death than dont waste money nothing here for you...  Some openings that are used many times are not even in the index to look up etc...  Even those you look up in many cases there is nothing worth looking up...  Maybe 1 star is rough, but this book has been over rated long enough...  Maybe the actual rating is 2 stars or 3 at best, but thats bout it...	2001-11-29
US	47855748	R3DK43063K74QD	187947963X	510969709	The Complete Dragon	Books	1	2	23	N	Y	The Complete Waste...	Id have to say a better name for this book might be The Complete Waste...  I remember when I first got this book I thought wow Ill just play this as my system and be set...  Yet as I got into the reality of play I realised just how many gaps were really in this book...  Besides the fact many games you cant even setup the Dragon they give you nothing but the pure dragon...  They dont even talk about the Accelerated Dragon at all in the least...  Too many people play Sicilian Lines anyways to be honest...  If your reading this thinking of picking it up dont really waste your time...  I find it best to not play sicilian and to just plain avoid it as white...  No reason to enter a game vs. someone thats all booked up with no life...  Many Sicilian players do not know how to play chess and simply resort to memorizing lines and variations...  They seem like better players than they are cuz of so much coverage of opening...  They spend so much time learning and studying over line after line just to get a false inflated rating...  Bout only good thing about this book is its sorta shiny and reflects the light funky :)....  If you have money to waste on a chess book you can find lots better...	2001-11-29
US	47855748	R24S9DO1BXC5GV	1901983099	647262309	Understanding the Grunfeld	Books	3	4	35	N	N	Should of covered Vs. English...	This might be a good book if the author took the time to maybe do least 1 chapter on using Grunfeld Vs. The English opening... Thats where I use it mostly and I find it works rather well to say least...  Would of been nice if he gave some lines and some games using it...  Even Botvinnik 100 Selected games has least Two Grunfeld Games vs. English...  As for Understanding the Grunfeld this is a good starter book...  Rowson is no world champion or even close to elite player...  Yet for his limited skills and attempts to waste space in the book with silly comments...  About his only good comment is calling the d pawn Delroy...  Other than that he isnt really creating anything that isnt already known or used...  Still reading the book isnt so bad to say least...  One person I know calls it the best opening book he ever read etc...  Still if he cant toss some coverage of it vs. the English I really cant rate it higher than 3 stars...  Also many seemed to of ranked it a bit higher than it really should be...  So 3 stars isnt gonna knock it down, yet someone that reads review might think about it more...  Of the books I know that exist on Grunfeld Id have to say this is the best one...  Some of the humor is stupid at best and can get annoying if trying to learn something...  While least one chapter name not many americans have any idea what it relates to...  Id of given this a higher rating perhaps if the Price wasnt so Inflated...  For what it costs it should have coverage vs. the English to even a small degree...  If you took out all his stupid comments that nobody cares about and added that content this would be a superior book and maybe worth the $$$...  Still if you can afford it and need a book on Grunfeld Id go with this one...	2001-11-29
