US	47897112	R2PNE0M31RA0N8	015602764X	178465491	Sophocles, The Oedipus Cycle: Oedipus Rex, Oedipus at Colonus, Antigone	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A powerful and moving piece!	~I had to read OEDIPUS REX for my pre-IB sophomore English class, feeling not too happy with another dull, lengthy Greek play (we had to read THE ODYSSEY last year, and it got really redundant).  But Sophocles' play...wow, it's totally different!  The characters are so much more real and the speeches are deep and engrossing.  Thebes is fascinating, substantial - and the issues grip you unknowingly.  ...When you finally resurface, you feel touched and bewildered at the same time!  <br />Throughout~~ THE OEDIPUS CYCLE run themes of fate and visions of free will amid reality.  These elements reveal the universal truth: of human blindness to fate and truth; their blind resolutions that, in reality, lead them to their fate.  Tragedy is forged between a character~{!/~}s personality and the inevitable events connected to it.  Although the doctrine of predestination rejects independent will, OEDIPUS REX succeeds in explaining the coexistence, in which action is subordinate to destiny through~~ ignorance.  ~{!0~}I was blind and now I can tell why: asleep for you had given ease of breath to Thebes while the false years went by.&quot; <br />THE OEDIPUS CYCLE beautifully fits Aristotle's definition of tragedies, being~{!0~}a casual, inevitable sequence of events connected intimately with the personality of the tragic character.&quot;  Even if your English class doesn't require you to pick up this title, I highly recommend that you do.  Being a translation, the language is very clear and reading~~ is direct.  But the subject is still full - and full of revelation!  It is so amazing, you have to experience it for yourself!  I ended up reading all 3 plays of the cycle and they are all very different but I would think that OEDIPUS REX is the strongest one.  It catches the reader the best, being more action-filled than the rest.  OEDIPUS AT COLONUS is a more of character reflections and analyzing, which are heartfelt for both character and reader.  ANTIGONE concludes the story witha good~~ feminist view of the affair by Antigone, the daughter of Oedipus.  Her play is a mix of physical and mental action and reaction.~	2002-10-17
US	47897112	R1TDUP089Q7DUS	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Pretty good depth and detail for a 100 page book!	Hemingway¡¯s \\"The Old Man and the Sea\\" was the last of his novels that were published in his time, and was a literary success in relief of his previous \\"Across the River and Into the Trees.\\"   Some think that this piece was also somewhat of a vengeful intent upon the critics that were bent on him.  <br />\\"The Old Man and the Sea\\" is a story of the overpowering sea and the man that faced up to it.  For 84 days, the old man Santiago hasn¡¯t been able to catch a thing.  But bad luck and others¡¯ lack of faith in him, with the exception of his former apprentice, don¡¯t stop Santiago, who remembers his greatest catch back in 1985 and decides that things will improve greatly on the 85th day.  He sails his skiff far into the Gulf Stream and that is where he feels the great marlin attach.  Santiago tries to reel the marlin in, but it¡¯s too strong and so he hangs on and lets the marlin pull him across the open sea.  For three days, Santiago hangs on to the line, despite cuts, pains, and no sleep.  During this time, Santiago talks to himself to keep his mind fresh, and has discovered a deep bond with this huge fish, the catch of his life.  ¡°Then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never relaxed in his sorrow for him.  How many people will he feed, he thought, but are they worthy?  ¡­He is much fish still and I saw that the hook was in the corner of his mouth. <BR>The punishment of the hook, the punishment of hunger and not comprehending his adversary is everything¡­¡±  Finally on the third day, Santiago manages to pull the marlin close enough to kill it with his harpoon.  But as Santiago turns back for his island, sharks sense the marlin¡¯s blood and attack the skiff.  Santiago defends them both as best as he can, but new pods of sharks are always arriving.  In the end, the marlin is so badly mutilated that santiago realizes that he has ruined them both by going too far and forcing the marlin¡¯s defeat.  Santiago makes it back home, without any great catch, but a blissful dream of lions on a golden beach in Africa.	2002-05-06
US	47897112	R2UZ4TU0KWK04U	0807282375	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	4.5 rounded up  ;-)	I was a little nervous about reading this book as it touched religious issues.  The resolution still confuses me somewhat, I can't see how that possibly ends things, and I'd better not say any more.<br />To give you a better idea of what this is about, THE AMBER SPYGLASS is the third book of the intriguing His Dark Materials trilogy.  The beloved characters Lyra, Will, Mrs. Coulter, and Lord Asriel return with many more new creatures and twists in the plot.  Their fate is on play and we all read in fascination to see what becomes of Lyra, who is held captive at the beginning of the novel.  She and Will have been separated, and he struggles to reunite them for their ultimate battle.  The scene is set for a reenactment of Eden and the atmosphere is intense.  <br />Those that have read the preceding books, I don't know how you can wait or avoid this incredible conclusion!  I didn't give this the full rating because of some of the controversy in and out of the text, but that's just me...  I'm going to miss Lyra and Will after this - Philip Pullman is truly a wonderful author, worthy of every bit of praise.  I look forward to more novels from him in the future.	2002-02-07
US	47897112	R1IQYJDT3QDS15	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Building suspense...	The second book of His Dark Materials trilogy elaborates on the role of Dust and that of Lyra Belacqua and her new friend Will Parry.  Lord Asriel, having opened the way between worlds, has disappeared on his goal to gain ultimate power.  Lyra crosses the bridge from her world to the new world of Citagiazze, where Will has also sought refuge, having stumbled upon a window from his own world (that of which we know) to this.  The children ally to seek answers and their own destinies.<br />With this book, we discover a whole new face of the plot of this trilogy - one of moral stance.  There is plenty more of the suspense and intrigue found in the first book and much more oracular theme.  I seriously couldn't put this book down - except begrudgingly when my mom forced me to turn off the light at 12:30 p.m.  Honestly, it's that good!  For those of you that haven't read this trilogy - I wouldn't miss another day!	2002-01-03
US	47897112	R392LM4WK2HJVE	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An incredible story of adventure and marvel	This is truly a wonderful book that everyone should read.  Not only is Phillip Pullman a genius for storytelling, his plot is so well developed, you can tell that he spent a lot of time on it.  And the truth is, the story is so realistic as a fantasy, and captivating despite skepticism of some of his imagination (in the case of the &quot;panserbjorne&quot; - the armored polar bears).  Don't be repelled by that though, I admit that I found that part silly at first - but it sort of grows on you and you read on with the same fascination.<br />Lyra Belacqua is the protagonist.  She was raised by the Scholars of Oxford, and it is there that she learns of the underlying politics and danger that she herself will take part in.  A veteran of battles with other groups of children, she will soon face the biggest struggle of all against the mysterious particle of Dust, that supposedly links the various universes together.  The golden compass, actually called an altheiometer, is the rare and much desired object that is bestowed upon Lyra, to aid her in her strife.  This is the beginning of her journey, with lots of intriguing &quot;counter-adventures&quot; along the way.  It's kinda hard to describe but I can guarantee you that this book is worth taking up and discovering for yourself the awe and excitement previous readers have felt!	2002-01-03
US	47897112	R2K1VTQ3T7BGUZ	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A deeply moving tale of prejudice and malevolence	Another book for English class that I developed a strong attachment to.  It's definitely one of the best modern novels that have been written!  For those of you that haven't the slightest clue what this book is about...<br />TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is a story of growing up, the childhood of Scout and Jem Finch in a small town in Alabama in the 1930's.  Their father, Atticus, is a respectable lawyer, given the job of defending Tom Robinson, a black man who is accused of raping a white woman.  It's a very dark theme that inhabits this innocent world of youthfulness, but that is part of the plot: to describe the loss of innocence and the maturing of the children in their views and actions in the face of various social issues such as prejudice and class distinction.  While being told from a child's point of view runs really deep and you'll be surprised by how intelligent Scout and Jem are.  The title, &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot; is explained on pg. 90 of the book, declaring the sin of murdering the helpless and innocent.  The story is told in a flashback, by Scout, who recounts the events between her 5 and 9 years of age, the events leading up to her brother Jem's broken arm.<br />...Now don't think this book is totally dreary and hateful - most of the characters (like Scout, Jem, and Dill) are really pleasant and incredibly entertaining.  The story takes on the real life approach but it is most relevant and I truly agree that this book is a must-read for everyone.	2001-11-04
US	47897112	R2LOTV1IV1MNZU	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A deeply moving tale of prejudice and malevolence	Another book for English class that I developed a strong attachment to.  It's definitely one of the best modern novels that have been written!  For those of you that haven't the slightest clue what this book is about...<br />TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is a story of growing up, the childhood of Scout and Jem Finch in a small town in Alabama in the 1930's.  Their father, Atticus, is a respectable lawyer, given the job of defending Tom Robinson, a black man who is accused of raping a white woman.  It's a very dark theme that inhabits this innocent world of youthfulness, but that is part of the plot: to describe the loss of innocence and the maturing of the children in their views and actions in the face of various social issues such as prejudice and class distinction.  While being told from a child's point of view runs really deep and you'll be surprised by how intelligent Scout and Jem are.  The title, &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot; is explained on pg. 90 of the book, declaring the sin of murdering the helpless and innocent.  The story is told in a flashback, by Scout, who recounts the events between her 5 and 9 years of age, the events leading up to her brother Jem's broken arm.<br />...Now don't think this book is totally dreary and hateful - most of the characters (like Scout, Jem, and Dill) are really pleasant and incredibly entertaining.  The story takes on the real life approach but it is most relevant and I truly agree that this book is a must-read for everyone.	2001-11-04
US	47897112	R3R5AVHV4E1ZKN	0670841803	785392906	Peter Pan	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A wonderful story full of simple childhood joy and merriment	I have always loved the Disney animation of Peter Pan and often walked by this book in the library with a curious smile.  This is a really classical children's story - beautifully told by J. M. Barrie.  He has a unique touch that brings young characters to life in a highly entertaining perspective.  It's really amusing - all the adventures that the children have and all their different personalities, in constant change and development.  The book was written in the early 1900's so the tone is a bit old-fashioned, the way I like it ;-)<br />Neverland is a very mystical place, inhabited by magic and villains.  It's like a virtual land of survival and play open only to children and imagination.  Now I must comment on the characters: Wendy is very sweet and angelic (sometimes too good - but I still can't get over Tinkerbell trying to kill her!), John is dignified and honorable, and of course we have adorable baby Michael.  Peter himself is much more adorable in the book with his heroic airs and moments of relapse.  They are the main characters and through their point of view come the adults, which is very cute.  The book shows how sweet and innocent and precious childhood is, and even if you consider this too juvenile, I say it serves as a delightful reverie and a sensational adventure for all ages!!  I actually read this book 2 yrs. ago but it's still a pleasant memory.	2001-11-04
US	47897112	R17EAB7P1ULQRD	0670841803	785392906	Peter Pan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful story full of simple childhood joy and merriment	I have always loved the Disney animation of Peter Pan and often walked by this book in the library with a curious smile.  This is a really classical children's story - beautifully told by J. M. Barrie.  He has a unique touch that brings young characters to life in a highly entertaining perspective.  It's really amusing - all the adventures that the children have and all their different personalities, in constant change and development.  The book was written in the early 1900's so the tone is a bit old-fashioned, the way I like it ;-)<br />Neverland is a very mystical place, inhabited by magic and villains.  It's like a virtual land of survival and play open only to children and imagination.  Now I must comment on the characters: Wendy is very sweet and angelic (sometimes too good - but I still can't get over Tinkerbell trying to kill her!), John is dignified and honorable, and of course we have adorable baby Michael.  Peter himself is much more adorable in the book with his heroic airs and moments of relapse.  They are the main characters and through their point of view come the adults, which is very cute.  The book shows how sweet and innocent and precious childhood is, and even if you consider this too juvenile, I say it serves as a delightful reverie and a sensational adventure for all ages!!  I actually read this book 2 yrs. ago but it's still a pleasant memory.	2001-11-04
US	47897112	R3NOFQP6YX1LQ1	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A compelling and true-spoken narration	Though it's beginning isn't exactly engrossing - at least not to me, as the main character seemed a married, middle-aged woman with boring family problems - the story really picked up when the woman's mother tells her story of life in China during World War II.  It is really a different perspective, for all you who read about wars, and those that don't even like to.  It is a story most heartfelt and so very realistic.  ...There's something about Amy Tan's style - she doesn't dress up her story, everything is plainly told, and yet the work is just full of details and I find myself reading word-for-word unconsciously. <br />&quot;The Kitchen God's Wife&quot; refers to Winnie (the mother's) life being in the shadow of her corrupt and malicious husband, herself helpless and overlooked.  In my opinion, this book is a much better plot than The Joy Luck Club, and has a more dramatic theme.  And while it may be long and seemingly tedious, it is worth every word!!	2001-11-04
US	47897112	R2U5BUH27XL85H	0812504267	851220829	Billy Budd (Tor Classics)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	A genius for cramming...	Let anyone tell you: it may look short and innocent but the story is waayyyyy beyond that!  I'm in an advanced study program with an ambitious teacher, so I got to read this in 8th grade.  It was a bit of stretch.  <br />On the whole you can say it was good, but the work just took out all the fun.  The story itself is quite simple: Billy Budd is a young and handsome sailor, perfect and good, and at the envy of others.  John Claggart is the scheming first mate, who seizes the opportunity of the chaotic time period to seek his vengeance on Billy Budd.  Captain de Vere is a highly intellectual man with faults and regrets, torn by duty and fear, but ultimately good.  You can think of these three as Jesus, the Devil, and Man (respectively).<br />As I said, the story was simple and short, but Melville had some real time on his hands and the result is enigmatic - chock full of tangents on tangents.  I focused a little too much on the depth and didn't do too well on the details of events.  The Nore Mutiny had our whole class confused, so do some research on sailing and naval terms.  And be prepared for a LOT of REreading!	2001-10-28
US	47897112	R1A5TFP5STGPRK	0140430172	365726027	Oliver Twist (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The right mood...	Yeah, I said it was long and boring before but actually, it's not.  I guess you just have to have the right version - I must have gotten the original, unedited copy at my first attempt.  OLIVER TWIST was the first book on our reading list for English this year and I knew I'd have to make it through.  I've seen movie adaptions of this story so it wasn't exactly new; of course Disney always changes the plot a bit, so I still had some surprises.<br />The basic idea of the book is this: Oliver Twist is a poor orphan cast to the most depressing scenes, struggling against the menace and corruption of lower London.  Dickens wrote this book, not only to criticize the failed government poor laws, but to reflect on his own early childhood, of the poverty and loneliness he had faced.  Oliver meets a wide cast of characters, in a wide range of good and evil.  At the bottom rests Fagin, the greedy and malicious Jew that manipulates children to steal for him.  He has a network of thieves about him, and innocent Oliver seems trapped.  However, he manages to escape to some wealthy and very kind people, who coincidentially are tied to his mysterious birth.<br />This book is very suspenseful and touching and a pretty good one for class study (I usually like book selecions for English).  My advice is to read in attention and speculation - be sure to pay attention to the chiming of bells.  ...If you're reading for fun, it's great entertainment too, and a lot less work.  Have patience and a good attitude!  ;-)	2001-10-28
US	47897112	R3LL9NN30L588B	0152018263	40028029	Pharaoh's Daughter: A Novel of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A neat adaption to the story of Moses.	Pharaoh's Daughter is &quot;a story of ancient Egypt&quot;.  Actually, it retells the story of Moses.  More so, it focuses on his sister, Almah.  Unlike most Habiru (Hebrews), she speaks Khemetian (the language of Egyptians).  She doesn't really fit into her family and her God-worshipping society, having been bored by her mother's stories.  <br />Almah meets the Egyptian princess, Meryetamun, one day by the Nile river, just after Pharaoh Ramses II issues for newborn Habiru boys to be killed.  Meryetamun faints when she sees a crocodile strike at one of the baby baskets, and Almah takes her to her home and Meryetamun finds out about Almah's own litte brother.  Later she visits again and saves Almah's brother before the guards can get rid of him.  She names him Mosis and passes him off as the gift of the goddess Eset (Isis).  Almah and her mother enter the palace as well, and there, Almah finds her true happiness.  She admires the Khemetian ways, though scorned by her mother.  When Meryetamun's mother, the queen Nefertari dies, she is drawn to Almah's mother and the Habiru God, while Almah learns to love the Egyptian pantheon and the heartaching Pharaoh.<br />The second part of this story is narrated by adolescent Mosis, in which he observes the differences in his wide family and is pressured to choose which religion he prefers.  Then the Pharaoh, his &quot;Grandfather&quot;, issues a proclamation for all Habirus to work as slaves on his new temple, and suspicions are drawn to Almah, Mosis, and Meryetamun.  Mosis is forced to act.<br />This novel provides a great insight to the world of ancient Egypt while enlightening us on the biblical story.  The author's hard work and thoughtfulness are revealed  in the writing as well as in the introduction and Author's Note.	2001-10-02
US	47897112	R3B14VXVO8TFV3	0152018263	40028029	Pharaoh's Daughter: A Novel of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A neat adaption to the story of Moses.	Pharaoh's Daughter is &quot;a story of ancient Egypt&quot;.  Actually, it retells the story of Moses.  More so, it focuses on his sister, Almah.  Unlike most Habiru (Hebrews), she speaks Khemetian (the language of Egyptians).  She doesn't really fit into her family and her God-worshipping society, having been bored by her mother's stories.  <br />Almah meets the Egyptian princess, Meryetamun, one day by the Nile river, just after Pharaoh Ramses II issues for newborn Habiru boys to be killed.  Meryetamun faints when she sees a crocodile strike at one of the baby baskets, and Almah takes her to her home and Meryetamun finds out about Almah's own litte brother.  Later she visits again and saves Almah's brother before the guards can get rid of him.  She names him Mosis and passes him off as the gift of the goddess Eset (Isis).  Almah and her mother enter the palace as well, and there, Almah finds her true happiness.  She admires the Khemetian ways, though scorned by her mother.  When Meryetamun's mother, the queen Nefertari dies, she is drawn to Almah's mother and the Habiru God, while Almah learns to love the Egyptian pantheon and the heartaching Pharaoh.<br />The second part of this story is narrated by adolescent Mosis, in which he observes the differences in his wide family and is pressured to choose which religion he prefers.  Then the Pharaoh, his &quot;Grandfather&quot;, issues a proclamation for all Habirus to work as slaves on his new temple, and suspicions are drawn to Almah, Mosis, and Meryetamun.  Mosis is forced to act.<br />This novel provides a great insight to the world of ancient Egypt while enlightening us on the biblical story.  The author's hard work and thoughtfulness are revealed  in the writing as well as in the introduction and Author's Note.	2001-10-02
US	47897112	R3K0YK6IGMVOQQ	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A refreshing look at the tales of King Arthur!	King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table by Thomas Mallory gave me nothing but bland, two-dimensional smoting and swoons.  I was ready to turn my back on the whole story when I heard about the Mists of Avalon from a friend.  It seemed awfully long, but the New York Times Bestseller sticker convinced me to try.  I had to wait an extremely long time for a copy of this book at the library and read some other books that I don't care to think back on while I was waiting.  <br />I finally got to read the Mists and found it every bit worth the praise.  Marion Zimmer Bradley, whose thorough details in her other books seemed dull, brought life and feeling into the story of the women behind King Arthur's rule.  They are strong and intriguing and really bring the story to life.  The book is mostly about Morgaine, Morgan le Fay, and portrays her as I like to think, intelligent and independent, and not some evil, crazy witch.  Gwenhwyfar (Guinevere), the other main character, is said to be radiantly beautiful and devoutly Christian, which disturbs her in her decision-making: to love Lancelet (Lancelot) or no, to hate Morgaine or no.  At the beginning of the book, she appeared overly frightened and weak, probably to keep her from rivaling Morgaine's spotlight.  <br />Other women who are in the story are Igraine (for the first hundred or so pages; that was enough because she really annoyed me!  She was so self-contradicting and dumb), Morgause (who they kept saying is evil but she sounded as reasonable as the rest!) Viviane, Elaine, Niniane, and Nimue.  They are all interesting and good in their own way - a bit different than their characters in other Arthurian books, but of course we all have different viewpoints.  I only wish this book didn't get so sexual... Otherwise it was great.  Have patience and read it!	2001-07-25
US	47897112	RXIXN6B6JWI7O	0609806505	148189446	Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country (Guenevere Novels)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Not worth your time.	I wanted to read about Guinevere (I prefer this spelling) because I just loved her in First Knight.  This book boasted of a strong heroine, one for all ages and so I was eager to read all about the Arthurian legends through her point of view.  Unfortunately, the book turned out to be a big disappointment.  The basics of the story had been twisted and told with little skill.  Perhaps Guenevere would have been better without her redundant thoughts and complaints.  Lancelot was NOT very likable at all.  The antagonists, Malgaunt and Morgan, were pretty true.  But I think that's about it, this isn't worth reading to me.	2001-07-18
US	47897112	R2ZS0958BVRJBG	0451456521	221787283	Lady of Avalon (Avalon, Book 3)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Better than the Forest House...	Well, I was finally getting there, I was still waiting for an available copy of the Mists of Avalon and I'd finished The Forest House so I figured, why not read Lady of Avalon.  Okay, it was definitely better than The Forest House, in Lady of Avalon, you actually see Marion Zimmer Bradley's scheme, to link The Forest House with her bestselling Mists. (I don't really see the importance of The Forest House though, I guess it was just tracing back the history of the Druids in Britain.)  <br />In Lady of Avalon, we learn about the sacred island of Avalon, hidden by mists to keep out unwanted trespassers, namely the Christians.  so Gawen (son of Eilan and Gaius from the Forest House) plays out his destiny, which I didn't find much significance in, and leaves behind a daughter.  The daughter grows up and becomes a High Priestess, and a whole line of High Priestesses pass until we come into focus in the story of Viviane, Lady of the Lake.  Viviane, who had been fostered during her childhood, is called to Avalon by her mother Ana, who wants her to be the next High Priestess.  Viviane learns about her mother and alternatively loves and hates her, but in the end accepts her mother's judgement.<br />This book was really only good for giving us background for Viviane, who is a prominent figure in the Mists.  I still say cut the chase and just read Mists of Avalon, but again, my pardons to fans who love the series.	2001-07-17
US	47897112	R1M51QRBM56AAU	0451454243	202730821	The Forest House (The Mists of Avalon: Prequel)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	I'm sorry, but I have to go with the tedious approach...	I picked up this book because I was awaiting Mists of Avalon, for which I was number 17 on the hold list at the library.  The Forest House looked okay, and it was all on the way, being a prequel to the Mists.  At home, I opened the book and read, but found the text so lengthy and dull!  Maybe I was just too anxious to skim through the book and get the basics needed to enjoy the Mists, but in my opinion, Marion Zimmer Bradley stretched out the story at least 200 pgs. more than necessary.  The plot was simple enough and we could have gotten the point without the extra babble.  <br />Eilan is a young priestess in training in the Forest House (where Druid priestesses have gathered in recovering from Roman conquer and the rape that came of it).  Eilan is in love with a young Roman soldier named Gaius, also called Gawen.  (Not to be confused with the story of Priestess of Avalon.) Their love is forbidden - this is before the Beltane tradition - but obviously it happens anyway.  They have a son (Gawen) who appears to be just one of the background in the long run, though he is constantly said to be fated as the Sacred High King.  The book finally ends with Eilan and Gaius's death, together and in love.  Gawen (the son) is sent to Avalon with Eilan's friend, the priestess Caillean, who had reestablished the Driud house there.<br />If you're a huge Marion Zimmer Bradley/Mists of Avalon fan and crave more, then you'll probably like this book, but it is definitely not worth your time if you just wanted the Mists.	2001-07-17
US	47897112	R2529NW55OHJ8O	0886778905	638542947	The Black Swan (Fairy Tale Series, Book 2)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A dazzling retelling of Swan Lake!	I've always loved the story of the beautiful princess who was turned into a swan by an evil sorcerer and permitted to retain her true form only in moonlight.  The Black Swan is a wonderful retelling of the Swan Lake fairy tale, with ideas from the animation version, The Swan Princess.<br /> Mercedes Lackey produces a detailed and thorough account with insights on the characters - mostly of Odile, the daughter of the evil sorcerer von Rothbart (left out in The Swan Princess), Prince Siegfried, and Queen Clothilde (his mother), the ones that are generally overlooked.  Odile is portrayed as an intelligent young woman, neglected by her father, whose only wish is his love and approval.  However, von Rothbart cares little for her, especially since she is so clever and seemingly about to exceed himself.  She is in charge of the flock of women-turned-swans, and finds friendship in them.  Siegfried is a selfish lecher, until his actions come back to haunt him.  (I thought that that was a shocking and revolting stage and I was really relieved when he changed his ways, though the transformation was a bit odd and sudden, and he didn't give up all of his bad habits.)  Clothilde adds excitement to the story, a factor new to the whole Swan Lake plot.  The scheming queen will do anything to ensure that the throne is hers alone.<br /> Though I appreciated the elucidation of the characters surrounding the story, I was kinda bummed that Odette was pushed to the very back and we are given almost no details on her character, except in a rare occasion through Odile.  I wanted to know a bit more on her past and her development - she is after all, the &quot;main attraction&quot;, the center of the story.  Nevertheless, The Black Swan is a really satisfying retelling of Swan Lake.  I'm glad that it still followed the main story line and wasn't too much of a heavy fantasy (I can never make out the weird names, kingdoms, and magical aspects).  This is a great book for mature readers (I say this because the content is a bit dirty at times), especially fans of fairy tales and fantasies!	2001-04-25
US	47897112	RI0BP8DPF0V00	0486290492	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A really nice story but Austen seemed to drag on a bit...	SENSE AND SENSIBILITY is a story about two sisters, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, who are as different as night and day.  Elinor represents &quot;sense&quot; - thoughtful, considerate and calm, while Marianne is &quot;sensibility&quot;: wild, emotional, and talented.  The story opens with the death of Old Mr. Dashwood, who leaves his estate to his nephew Mr. Dashwood (the father of Elinor and Marianne).  Mr. Dashwood is about to die as well; he passes the estate to his son by his first wife, John Dashwood.  Unfortunately, he has nothing of value to leave his second wife and their three daughters (Elinor, 19-years-old; Marianne, 17; and Margaret, 13), though he does manage to get John Dashwood to promise to look after them.  But John Dashwood's selfish wife, Fanny, convinces him to give very little.  And so, Mrs. Dashwood moves them to Barton, where they live humbly in a cottage on her distant cousin, Sir John Middleton's, land.<br />Before their move, Elinor had met and fallen in love with Fanny's younger brother Edward Ferrars.  But Fanny and Mrs. Ferrars are much too snobby to let their relationship prevail.  When they moved to the countryside, the two are further separated.  Meanwhile, Marianne's romances are just blossoming in Barton.  She gains the admiration of Colonel Brandon, but she prefers young, dashing Willoughby, who helps her home one day when she fell and twisted her ankle.  This however proves disastrous, as Willoughby abandons Marianne for wealthy Miss Sophia Grey after a long, intimate friendship.  Elinor is also suffering from love-loss.  She discovers that Edward had been engaged for four years to Miss Lucy Steele, a distant relative of Mrs. Jennings (Sir John Middleton's mother-in-law).  At this point, &quot;sense&quot; and &quot;sensibility&quot; seem to coincide and we learn that we must have both &quot;sense&quot; and &quot;sensibility&quot; in a balanced, corroborated manner to have a truly blissful life.<br />The story is very interesting and entertaining, though Austen tended to drone a lot between events.  In my opinion, she spent too much time trying to convey Elinor's judgement during parties and other social gatherings (which was wayyyy too often).  On the whole, this was a wonderful book, full of fun and surprises (especially at the end!).  I highly recommend this book to people at or above the age of 14 (which is how old I am, and I'm telling you it was a bit of a stretch for me - or maybe it was just that I was a little impatient to get my AR reading points).  My only advice is have patience, prepare for a lot of rereading (things can get kinda confusing - there were a little too many characters for my comfort), and to watch the movie (fabulous!) afterward.  Enjoy!	2001-03-17
US	47897112	R2ROCEZWAG2OGZ	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A enchanting fantasy	A unicorn overhears some hunters talking as they pass through her forest.  They say that unicorns are gone from the world.  The unicorn is so shocked that she makes up her mind to leave her forest and search for the other unicorns.  She learns that she is indeed the last of her kind and that unicorns have been gone so long, people no longer know what they look like.  The sad unicorn continues on her quest and meets an unforgetable cast of characters.  There's a lot of obstacles that she goes through and I won't spoil it for you, but just be prepared for a really touching ending!<br />When I was little, I loved to watch the movie version of THE LAST UNICORN.  I was going through a phase of horses, ponies, unicorns, and flying horses, so nothing pleased me more than that mystical animation, though the drawing was a bit rough and I didn't really understand it.  Recently, my little sister discovered the tape lying about the house and proceeded to watch it.  Now she too is caught in the frenzy.  I watched it with her more than a couple of times and marveled at the delightful story with its original plot that I missed when I was young.  I discovered that there was a book and managed to get a hold of a copy. . . .  <br />THE LAST UNICORN was a fantastic read and now ranks as one of my favorite fantasy books, though the text is a bit easy.  The book provides the unicorn fan with details that satisfy.  However, I wasn't able to enjoy it as well because it is almost exactly like the movie, which I found really disappointing becuase I was hoping for a bit more.  ...Oh well, this was still a treat to read and I recommend it to everyone (just take a break from the movie beforehand)!	2001-03-03
US	47897112	R235O47JEL5KS9	059042243X	444133547	Anne Of Green Gables	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A memorable classic that touches your heart!	This is one of the best books ever written and the credit goes to spirited Anne (make sure it's spelled with an &quot;e&quot;!) Shirley. It's not often you find such a charming heroine as Anne.  ANNE OF GREEN GABLES is the first of a series on this lovable orphan, and it begins with Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert, a respectable brother and sister, living at Green Gables.  They are both growing old and need a boy to help out on the farm.  But they got a talkative redhead girl instead. Before they can send her back to the orphanage, Anne has managed to win the hearts of Prince Edward Island with her wit and imagination.  She seems to affect everyone around her - from busybody Mrs. Rachel Lynde to handsome Gilbert Blythe.  And now, Green Gables will never be the same! . . .<br />It's not often you find such a spirited and lovable heroine as Anne.  Captivating and captivatED, Anne is full of enthusiasm and fun, which gets her into all sorts of scrapes.  This book is one that you are guaranteed to laugh over, cry over, and never want to put down!  It is an ideal novel that you won't want to pass up!  (Even if you don't read the rest of the Anne books, read this!)	2000-12-19
US	47897112	R22P425SHFPJS4	0679876154	312522121	The Tin Princess	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not exactly the Sally Lockhart style, but...	Probably the reason for this book being low-rated is that it lacks the style of the Sally Lockhart trilogy, which this is supposed to be a sequel to, not to mention that this book is missing the beloved heroine herself (Sally just appears in a few litle scenes).  The real story is focused on Jim Taylor (Sally's good friend, a &quot;consulting detective&quot;), Adelaide (the poor servant of Mrs. Holland's that disappeared in at the end of THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE), and a newcomer, Rebecca - Becky - Winter (Adelaide's tutor).<br />The story begins with Becky arriving to teach Adelaide German.  Adelaide has secretly married Prince Rudolf II of Razkavia and must be educated so that she is worthy of her new station.  Jim is trying to protect Rudolf from assasins that have already succeeded in killing his brother and sister-in-law.  And so Jim and Adelaide are reunited.  Now that Rudolf is the crown prince, he must return to Razkavia to attend the coronation.  He brings with him his wife, Jim, and Becky.  In a whirl of events, the king of Razkavia and Rudolf both die and Adelaide becomes queen.  She is suddenly burdened by political responsibilities and an effort to maintain the independence of Razkavia.  Not only that, but she is in danger of being assasinated, for a power from within Razkavia is tearing it apart. . . .<br />This book is pretty good - filled with suspense and excitement . . . but I found some of the parts hard to believe - I mean, it's not very likely that a prince would marry a prostitute (yes, Adelaide was one).  And the action-filled conclusion was so abrupt that it was hard to comprehend.  The ending itself left you hanging - and that's not what a sequel is supposed to do! . . . Well, despite the book's little flaws, the story is greatly entertaining!  Happy reading!	2000-12-15
US	47897112	R2ENXON6MDC511	0679826718	220124378	The Tiger in the Well (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A thrilling conclusion to the Sally Lockhart trilogy!	THE TIGER IN THE WELL is by far Sally's most exciting adventure!  As usual, Phillip Pullman gets right to the point in bringing you action ... Sally Lockhart is now 25 years old and perfectly content.  But when the &quot;Process Server&quot; arrives at her home one sunny afternoon with a message from a man called Mr. Parrish, who is suing her for the custody of her beloved daughter, Harriet,  Sally's life suddenly goes downhill. She soon realizes that &quot;someone hates her so much that he has devoted years to bring about her ruin.&quot; Indeed, this man's lie has so many proofs to back it up, Sally nearly believes she has forgotten an entire period of her life.  But for the sake of her memory of Frederick Garland, her late fianc, she protects herself and their daughter by escaping to London's East End, where she hides among the poor, depraved lower class.  Meanwhile, a politician and journalist, Daniel Goldberg, is investigating a capitalist who is somehow managing to use the flow of Jewish immigration for his own personal gain. ...Want to know what happens - how the threads tie together?  Read this book!	2000-12-01
US	47897112	RGSEVCL6EPHLT	0394825993	994590504	The Shadow in the North (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not as good as the other two ...	THE SHADOW IN THE NORTH is the second book in the Sally Lockhart series, and in my opinion, the worst (not that the others were bad - it's just that this one wasn't as good).  The overall layout wasn't as well worked, thought the plot is exceedingly complicated: Six years after THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE, Sally has established herself as a financial consultant.  Her friendship with Frederick Garland has blossomed into something more, though Sally refuses to acknowledge it, arousing conflict between them.  However, a new case soon brings them together again ... one of Sally's clients loses a great amount of money, which she had invested in a shipping firm that collapsed.  As Sally investigates this, she finds it to be all part of a bigger scheme; Fred meets a magician who is in danger because he has seen a murder.  Soon, they find that these two apparently irrelevant cases are interlinked in an intense enigma. <br />This book is a must-read for Sally Lockhart fans, even though it lacks the fascination found in the other two, it's a good transition from the first book to the third.  Enjoy!	2000-11-27
US	47897112	RYYFE5KGQ2ZZX	0064401871	571846578	A Little Princess	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A magical story of a little girl's faith and determination.	I read this book in third grade, after seeing the motion picture and loving it.  That was five years ago - and this incredible story is still fresh in my mind.  <br />Sara Crewe's father sent her to a boarding school in London to keep her from the ill conditions of their home in India.  All her life, Sara had been pampered and indulged in her every wish - but she is far from being spoiled and selfish.  She obediently attends Miss Minchin's School for Girls and tries to ignore her longing for her father, who returns to business in India.  Surrounded by admirers, expensive toys and clothes, Sara is just like the princess she makes believe she is.  But then, her father dies of fever in India, penniless. Poor Sara is made a servant and is treated terribly.  It is only her imagination that keeps her going - striving to remain a princess inside, her gentle and sweet manner is what finally brings her her reward.<br />A Little Princess is another wonderful story (one of my favorites of all time) by Francis Hodgson Burnett, illustrated by Tasha Tudor.	2000-11-11
US	47897112	R3PURIFD3GCVI8	0448060191	592774530	Little Women (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A heartwarming story!	Little Women is one of my favorite books of all time! In this heartwarming story about four sisters growing up during the Civil War, I have learned so much about the world around me, and ironically, myself. It tells of how people can choose to live their lives and how happiness can be found even through hardships. <br />     The Marches are a picture of a happy home - with brave and moral Father, who has gone into the army to do what he can for the North's cause, and kind, caring Marmee, who watches over her girls with gentleness and love. Then, there's the little women: sixteen-year-old Meg, who's pretty and mature; rough-and-tumble Jo, determined to become a famous writer; timid Beth, always putting others before herself; and spoiled Amy with her artistic talents.  There's also their amiable neighbor, Theodre Laurence (Laurie).  Join in on the fun and read all about Amy's trouble at school, Jo's precious book being burned, Meg going to &quot;Vanity Fair,&quot; Beth's tragedy, and so much more!  I highly recommend this book for guys and girls of all ages!  No one can resist this incredible story!	2000-11-05
US	47897112	R5Y6DRNCSHXCO	0397321651	571846578	The Secret Garden: The 100th Anniversary Edition with Tasha Tudor Art	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A GREAT story about being able to grow and change!	The Secret Garden is an enclosed garden that belonged to Mary Lennox's pretty Aunt Lilias.  When she died, her husband, Mr. Archibald Craven, locked up the painful memories of the garden and most of Misselthwaite Manor's one hundred rooms.  But when frail, spoiled Mary comes from India to live with her uncle at her parents' death, she soon befriends a robin who shows her where the key was buried - and at last, after ten years, the garden is reopened!  Contrary-minded Mary grows sweet and healthy along with her cousin, Colin, and the garden she and friendly Dickon heal.  . . . This is a great story, matched with Tasha Tudor's pretty pen-and-ink drawings.  Everyone should be able to experience this wonderful book!	2000-11-05
US	47897112	R30FGMQAXPGG2H	0440995779	879872706	The Witch of Blackbird Pond	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Memorable characters, page-turning suspense, laughs &amp; tears!	This book has it all!  It is a GREAT book for all readers.  Set in colonial times, 1687, to be exact, Katherine (Kit) Tyler is the heroine and one of my favorites of all time!  When the story opens, Kit's grandfather has just died and she must leave her sunny home in the Caribbean to go live in the Puritan colony of Connecticut.  Like a tropical bird that has flown to the wrong shore, Kit has trouble fitting in, though she quickly attracts the attention of the entire town with her bright silk dresses, her unusual ability to swim, and her headstrong personality.  Rich, young William immediately falls for her but Kit wonders if they are meant to be together.  Meanwhile, her cousin Julia is outraged with jealousy.  She and Uncle Matthew make Kit's new wooden home seem even colder.  Her loneliness and misery ultimately leads her to meet and befriend Widow Tupper, the Witch of Blackbird Pond.  The days she spends with Widow Tupper and Nat, a sailor whom she met on her journey to Connecticut, are the ones she enjoys most.        But her Aunt Rachel tells her to stay away from Widow Tupper because she's a Quaker and the whole town considers her a witch.  Kit ignores the warnings and continues to visit her anyway.  But quickly, she too is regarded as a witch. Kit goes to trial facing an angry town with no one to speak for her.  Or is she not as alone as she thinks?	2000-10-27
US	47897112	R1GL00K7EOVP1O	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A thrilling page-turner!	I probably would have never read any of Philip Pullman's books if it had not been for my language arts teacher, who handed me a copy of the Ruby in the Smoke when I asked to borrow a reading book that I was supposed to have for an upcoming class but didn't.  I had tried reading The Tin Princess last year but didn't get very far at all.  It was confusing, being the last book of a trilogy and not very interesting at the beginning . . . But the Ruby in the Smoke caught my attention right away.  It introduced me to pretty, determined Veronica (Sally) Lockhart and cruel, greedy Mrs. Holland in a fast-paced world of pirates and convicts all wrapped up tightly around a mystical ruby and the opium trade . . .  This is the best mystery I have read yet and you can bet that I will give the Tin Princess another try and take up the entire Sally Lockhart Trilogy!  Don't risk missing this thrilling story like I nearly did!	2000-10-24
US	47897112	RMZ0SLLHLYPM6	0486406512	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Awesome!	I had a bad experience with Dickens. 2 years ago I tried reading Oliver Twist, after seeing the Disney movie, but after going through 3 chapters that took up 40 pages each - but consisted of only 2 paragraphs each, just for Oliver to be born and named, I gave up.  Now I'm in 8th grade and as a language arts assignment, we were to read a Dickens novel.  It was either A Tale of Two Cities or Great Expectations.  I saw the Wishbone summary of A Tale of Two Cities and thought it had a nice plot but was dreading going through Dickens's lllooooonnnggg drones.<br />This time however, Dickens secured my interest with the ideal beginning of &quot;It was the best of times, it was the worst of times . . .&quot; I was immediately drawn into the story of mystery and splendor.  The characters didn't suddenly multiply like they did before and I got to understand each and every one - from pretty Lucie Manette to the harsh Monseigneur the Marquis.<br />Dickens's drifting speeches improved as well: turning out to be quite dramatic and interesting.  Maybe the book could have been a lot shorter - but it gives you something to think on.  And it's definitely better than just having an author say, &quot;okay, this is the story and that's the end.&quot; Instead, he gives you a suspensful novel that you are never bored with.  You have to carefully follow the story and see how the threads tie together in the end.<br />. . . Prepare to be amazed!	2000-09-24
