US	47914705	R2VJVPK3UH5HVO	0465051960	343903714	Power And Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist And Capitalist Dictatorships	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Balanced, Insightful, and relevant	Power and Prosperity is an example of economics at its best. First of all, it takes a balanced or neutral approach to its subject matter. The author is not out to prove the superiority of either markets or government. Governmental power is a double edged sword to Olson. Government power promotes prosperity by restraining 'roving bandits' or special interests. Government power is also susceptible to the influence of special interests. Olson also discusses the merits and faults of markets. Markets are ubiquitous and can lead to prosperity, but often do not. Government has a role in this. That is, he finds blame for this in the most negative aspects of government. Olson does not assume market efficiency either. He explains it, as well as some possible limitations to markets.<br /><br />This is also a highly insightful book. Much of his analysis derives from his earlier work on \\"the logic of collective action'. He also uses some transaction costs and basic supply and demand/substitution effect reasoning to explain historical events. Students in my comparative classes had more trouble with this book than any other, but it is still manageable. Reading it might be difficult for those who lack an education in economics. But I am not sure if there is an easier way to say what it says, and what it says is most interesting. The concepts the author employs makes a greater understanding of different economic systems and historical periods possible. This is penetrating analysis.<br /><br />It is also highly relevant. Much of this book focuses on the Soviet Union. One could say that the USSR is a done deal- it failed so forget about it. It is, however, important to understand why it failed so as to avoid repeating such errors in the future. This is what the Author is driving at with in his use of the Soviet example. There were reasons for the failure of the Soviet system that also apply to problems in other nations- not to mention Russia today. The misuse of power has the potential to prevent prosperity as much now as it did under Stalin and Khrushchev.<br /><br />Does this book have faults? Certainly. Olson takes too positive a view of Stalin's industrialization program (not that he praises Stalin). Olson dismisses complete privatization, or anarchy, too easily. There is nothing wrong with arguing against anarchy. But, his arguments against privatizing the state (i.e private police and courts) are little more than an unsupported dismissal of such arrangements. If he did not want to debate that issue, he should not have taken such a strong stand. He also might have mentioned a few things about FA Hayek- especially on p136 where he wrote \\"a bureaucracy cannot process all the information needed to calculate an optimal allocation or put it into practice\\".<br /><br />While there are a few faults to this book, it is still excellent. It is a must read for anyone interested in either comparative economics and politics, Globalization, or the economic history of the Soviet Union.ntial to prevent prosperity as much now as it did under Stalin and Khrushchev. <br /> <br />Does this book have faults? Certainly. Olson takes too positive a view of Stalin's industrialization program (not that he praises Stalin). Olson dismisses complete privatization, or anarchy, too easily. There is nothing wrong with arguing against anarchy. But, his arguments against privatizing the state (i.e private police and courts) are little more than an unsupported dismissal of such arrangements. If he did not want to debate that issue, he should not have taken such a strong stand. He also might have mentioned a few things about FA Hayek- especially on p136 where he wrote \\"a bureaucracy cannot process all the information needed to calculate an optimal allocation or put it into practice\\". <br /> <br />While there are a few faults to this book, it is still excellent. It is a must read for anyone interested in either comparative economics and politics, Globalization, or the economic history of the Soviet Union.	2004-12-08
US	47914705	REEQC3YLAJQN	0262691825	907918714	Whither Socialism? (Wicksell Lectures)	Books	1	67	92	N	Y	At the Heels of Giants	This book possesses two distinct features. First, it errs frequently. Second, it errs amateurishly. Perhaps the most important error in this book is in how it was researched. It references nothing that Lange and Hayek wrote during the Interwar Debate on Socialism. It references none of the articles that Lerner or Knight published in this debate. It references nothing by Mises, Robbins, Durbin, Dickinson, or Dobb at all. The only article from this debate that Stiglitz read was Taylor's 1929 article- the worst one from the socialist side. Stiglitz also ignores the work of interpreters of this debate. He does not reference Bergson, Heilbroner, Lavoie, Kirzner, T Hoff, Roberts, Murell... In other words, Stiglitz barely scratched the surface of what was actually written in this debate- yet HE claims that THEY did not know what they were talking about. Of course, he did do some research for this book. Stiglitz referenced 126 of his own publications.<br /><br />The shoddy research of this book shows up in its arguments. Stiglitz refers to the Arrow-Debreu model in discussing the debate between Lange and Hayek. In the ADM scheme of things there is a complete set of markets where unrestricted competition among perfectly informed persons reigns. Naturally, such perfect conditions yield perfect results- on paper. Actual markets do not deliver these results so \\"the competitive paradigm is not robust\\" (p107). Of course, it makes no sense to think of the Lange-Hayek debate in terms of Arrow Debreu anyway. This debate over socialism took place mainly in the nineteen thirties. The ADM was published in 1954. Socialism also suffers from incentive problems, so Stiglitz tells us that the Lange-Lerner model of market socialism does not depict reality either. He claims that Lange did not understand the difficulties in allocating capital. In reality, Lange (1938) and Dickinson (1939)wrote explicitly about severe problems in allocating capital.<br /><br />For those who have actually read and understood the writings of the old socialists, like  Lange, Schumpeter, and Dickinson, and their opponents Mises, Hayek, and Robbins this debate looks quite different. All of these economists recognized problems in both systems and wrote about them explicitly. Lange is well known for admitting to the danger of the bureaucratization of economic life under socialism. Hayek stressed the problems with information under both systems, and in fact spelled out the crucial informational imperfections in markets by 1937. Mises, Hayek, Lange, and Schumpeter all thought in dynamic terms that went far beyond the models with which Stiglitz likes to play. Stiglitz tries to reduce Schumpeter's process of creative destruction to a simple (and weak) game theoretic argument. He also ignored Mises completely- this is an unforgivable error.<br /><br />The main purpose of this book is to play up the importance of its authors prior writings on imperfect information. All past accomplishments on both sides of this debate get recast into a form that makes the author of this book the only one who has made a worthwhile contribution, when in reality it is the contributions of intellectual giants like Hayek, Mises, Lange, Dickinson, and Schumpeter that rise above all else. Modest scholars recognize the shoulders that they stand upon from the past. The author of this book shows little such modesty, and even less in terms of important and original advances. This book should not be taken seriously.e writings of the old socialists, like  Lange, Schumpeter, and Dickinson, and their opponents Mises, Hayek, and Robbins this debate looks quite different. All of these economists recognized problems in both systems and wrote about them explicitly. Lange is well known for admitting to the danger of the bureaucratization of economic life under socialism. Hayek stressed the problems with information under both systems, and in fact spelled out the crucial informational imperfections in markets by 1937. Mises, Hayek, Lange, and Schumpeter all thought in dynamic terms that went far beyond the models with which Stiglitz likes to play. Stiglitz tries to reduce Schumpeter's process of creative destruction to a simple (and weak) game theoretic argument. He also ignored Mises completely- this is an unforgivable error.    The main purpose of this book is to play up the importance of its authors prior writings on imperfect information. All past accomplishments on both sides of this debate get recast into a form that makes the author of this book the only one who has made a worthwhile contribution, when in reality it is the contributions of intellectual giants like Hayek, Mises, Lange, Dickinson, and Schumpeter that rise above all else. Modest scholars recognize the shoulders that they stand upon from the past. The author of this book shows little such modesty, and even less in terms of important and original advances. This book should not be taken seriously.	2004-06-05
US	47914705	R3Q47ELH7UTG7V	0130608106	226531029	The Economic Way of Thinking (10th Edition)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Comparative Advantage in Price Theory	Heyne's text explains what it explains well. It is a good Freshman level price theory text. Its strengths are in explaining informational and coordination issues in markets. It does more to explain how the price system works as a communications network than any other text I have seen. It also explains the issues of property rights and transactions costs clearly.<br />When it comes to the public sector, it is vastly better than many other texts. There are other texts, like Gwartney and Stroup, and Ekelund and Tollinson, which are arguably better at explaining the public sector.<br />The biggest weaknesses of this book are in macro and international economics. Its chapters on money are ok, but it explains far too little about trade cycles. It has some good material on growth, but could explain more and in more detail. The chapter on international economics could go further as well. The shortcomings of this book likely reduce its sales. So, it seems that the marginal benefits of such revisions exceed their marginal costs.<br />Heyne is no longer around to revise this book, but the co-authors who took over for him could improve this book greatly for the next edition.	2004-04-24
US	47914705	R3NLGTGL83PGSG	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	1	117	171	N	N	Selection Bias and Ad Homininy	The biggest joke in this book is its title. Franken claims to have exposed &quot;the right&quot; as liars. He wants his readers to conclude that the right makes more noise than sense. How does he go about trying to do this? He selects out the least capable opponents he can find.<br />To Franken, a fair and balanced look at the right means attacking media personas like Bill O'Reilly, Anne Coulter, and Sean Hannity. While it is true that these figures are, shall we say, excitable, they are hardly the best opponents to Welfare State Liberalism.<br />If Franken really wanted to devastate opponents to the modern welfare/regulatory state, he should have gone after the most capable  of these opponents available. Franken could have written a chapter on John Stossel. Stossel is, after all, an important critic of big government. However, Stossel does not rant like Sean Hannity, he just lays out the facts in a sober fashion. Franken could have written a chapter on Walter Williams. Williams has written much in the popular media, and fills in for Rush Limbaugh on WABC. However this would mean taking on a real expert (Williams is an economist). Franken would rather take on O'Reilly, who tries to comment on everything and is therefore an expert on nothing. Tom Sowell is another economist, and widely read critic of big government that Franken avoided. He would rather call Anne Coulter \\"a nutcase\\" than risk entering into a real debate.<br />Interestingly enough, Franken accuses Hanity of employing this very tactic. He claims that Hanity wants Alan Colmes as an opponent because Colmes is a weak  opponent. Not only is this claim hypocritical, it is arguably false. Franken seems to measure the effectiveness of ones argumentation by how loud and animated they are. Fox News leftists like Alan Colmes and Juan Williams are not as animated as Begala and Carville at CNN, but that makes them more effective  to many people. There are many loudmouth idiots in the media, who rant and rave instead of presenting serious arguments. Apparently Franken feels comfortable participating in this kind of non debate.<br />The bottom line is that Franken fails even against the few he selected out as opponents for this book. Mostly, he is does what he accuses his opponents of doing. He slings mud, distorts the facts, and engages in seemingly deliberate deception. He does cite some real sources and evidence, but he does not understand much of it. He even caves in to Supply Side economics without realizing it (on p295). He also engages in near constant personal attacks. Franken seems quite at home in the gutter of popular debate.<br />I got what I paid for from this book. Someone gave me a copy of this book as a gift. Anyone who, after reading this book, takes its \\"arguments\\" seriously should not be taken seriously.ad of presenting serious arguments. Apparently Franken feels comfortable participating in this kind of non debate.<br />The bottom line is that Franken fails even against the few he selected out as opponents for this book. Mostly, he is does what he accuses his opponents of doing. He slings mud, distorts the facts, and engages in seemingly deliberate deception. He does cite some real sources and evidence, but he does not understand much of it. He even caves in to Supply Side economics without realizing it (on p295). He also engages in near constant personal attacks. Franken seems quite at home in the gutter of popular debate.<br />I got what I paid for from this book. Someone gave me a copy of this book as a gift. Anyone who, after reading this book, takes its \\"arguments\\" seriously should not be taken seriously.	2004-04-20
US	47914705	R3RGBMWM59VAAV	0910884277	695526770	Principles of Economics (Institute for Humane Studies Series in Economic Theory)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Absolutely Indispensable	At first glance, one could hardly imagine important of this book. Menger's Principles is a modest sized paperback, much smaller than modern Principles textbooks. However, its contents are of colossal importance. This is the book that set value theory straight in economics, and more. Menger resolved the Diamond-Water Paradox posed by Adam Smith.  Menger did this by showing how exchange values in markets to derive from marginal value in use. Menger's Marginal Value theory quickly displaced the Labor Value theory of Adam Smith. Nowadays only Marxists cling to Labor Value theory. Menger also worked out a detailed theory of economic goods. He worked out the principles of pricing for final goods and factors of production- all in a way that shows the interconnectedness and complexity of these individual elements. Not only did Menger perform the invaluable service of explaining the correct theory of value, he set the stage for many further developments in economics.<br />Menger looks at everything in terms of cause and effect. He identifies the four conditions that make any commodity an economic good. He then extrapolates out to show how the interdependence of complementary inputs in production means that their value depends both upon the existence of final goods as well as other inputs. Trade depends upon `reverse valuation' up to the point of indifference. Menger also understood how transaction costs (the economic sacrifices that exchange operations demand, p 189) limit trade.<br />The early chapters stress two points. First, the importance of goods being compliments to each other. Second, men must possess correct foresight and knowledge concerning the means available to them for the attainment of the desired ends (p89). We must have knowledge of the causal connections between goods with the characteristics that satisfy our wants and our future wants in order to carry out effective economic planning. These insights point to crucial issues in economics.<br />Menger's references to the division of knowledge concerning causal connections between goods and wants led directly to a devastating critique of Socialism. Mises and Hayek used the ideas of this book to prove that communal ownership of resources precludes rational economic planning. Socialism prevents the effective use of knowledge concerning consumer demand and the means of production. Without real property rights we lack the communications network known as the price system. Menger's stress on knowledge is especially clear on pages 89-92.<br />As the book progresses, he switches emphasis from goods being complements to their being substitutes and stresses scarcity and the control of resources. Here Menger goes beyond the complexity issue that he raised with goods being numerous, complementary, and with production taking place in many stages across time. The elements of substitutability and scarcity begin to paint a picture of intense and possible ruinous rivalry. Here he shows briefly how property rights emerge as a natural consequence of economizing behavior. Menger claims that property is not an arbitrary arrangement but \\"the only possible solution of the problem that is, in the nature of things, imposed upon us by the disparity between requirements for, and available quantities of, all economic goods\\". He also has a brief discussion of public goods, which he terms quasi-economic goods. Menger understood the public goods issue, but he also anticipated the absurdity of collective welfare. His definition of national wealth as a complex composite of individual wealths anticipated absurdities of modern welfare economics.<br />Menger showed how money emerges from barter. This is a vital principle. Vital social institutions like money emerge from self-serving behavior by individuals. This kind of thinking is present throughout this book. While Menger stresses conscious rational choice, he also understood the unconscious and spontaneous order that emerges out of and beyond consciousindividual choice. We are largely unaware of the social order of markets, property, and money while it is functioning normally. Only the interruption of commerce turns our attention to the functioning of the system as a whole (this is most clearly stated on p63).<br />Menger's theory allowed for real errors. Some hold irrational beliefs and therefore `imaginary goods' exist. Some people imagine that `snake oil' goods deliver results that they do not. Others imagine needs that do not really exist. So progress in learning more about real causal connections between commodities and real wants leads to a higher proportion of real goods to imaginary goods. Menger's emphasis on learning and gradual progress and learning is important because it allows for a middle ground where the world can be imperfect, but not hopelessly so. Scholars who focus rational choice and equilibrium end states can easily conclude that the world is as good as it can be. Scholars who assume away rationality and all equilibrating processes end up seeing voluntary social interaction as hopelessly chaotic. By focusing on evolution and learning Menger opens doors to real progress, and allows for the possibility that we have not yet passed through every one of them just yet.  To Menger real progress comes with greater correct knowledge concerning the causal connections between commodities and wants. Anyone familiar with the empirical work of Julian Simon will see the importance of Menger's insight immediately.<br />The contributions of this book are monumental, especially when one considers its relative brevity. It resolves several vital issues and points the way to others- and in only a few hundred pages. This is a book that everyone who studies economics or any other social science should read first. Mises, Hayek, Coase and Buchanan should come soon after. I assign it in my introductory price theory class, and so should all economists. Economists and other social theorists themselves should read this book, as all too few have. This is a foundational book in economics, but even the most advanced experts in economics need to be careful about their understanding of foundational concepts. This book should be read and periodically re-read by all those interested in social theory. The concepts in this book are indispensable to those who want to understand the workings of complex social orders.individual choice. We are largely unaware of the social order of markets, property, and money while it is functioning normally. Only the interruption of commerce turns our attention to the functioning of the system as a whole (this is most clearly stated on p63).<br />Menger's theory allowed for real errors. Some hold irrational beliefs and therefore `imaginary goods' exist. Some people imagine that `snake oil' goods deliver results that they do not. Others imagine needs that do not really exist. So progress in learning more about real causal connections between commodities and real wants leads to a higher proportion of real goods to imaginary goods. Menger's emphasis on learning and gradual progress and learning is important because it allows for a middle ground where the world can be imperfect, but not hopelessly so. Scholars who focus rational choice and equilibrium end states can easily conclude that the world is as good as it can be. Scholars who assume away rationality and all equilibrating processes end up seeing voluntary social interaction as hopelessly chaotic. By focusing on evolution and learning Menger opens doors to real progress, and allows for the possibility that we have not yet passed through every one of them just yet.  To Menger real progress comes with greater correct knowledge concerning the causal connections between commodities and wants. Anyone familiar with the empirical work of Julian Simon will see the importance of Menger's insight immediately.<br />The contributions of this book are monumental, especially when one considers its relative brevity. It resolves several vital issues and points the way to others- and in only a few hundred pages. This is a book that everyone who studies economics or any other social science should read first. Mises, Hayek, Coase and Buchanan should come soon after. I assign it in my introductory price theory class, and so should all economists. Economists and other social theorists themselves should read thisbook, as all too few have. This is a foundational book in economics, but even the most advanced experts in economics need to be careful about their understanding of foundational concepts. This book should be read and periodically re-read by all those interested in social theory. The concepts in this book are indispensable to those who want to understand the workings of complex social orders.	2004-02-22
US	47914705	R3HNI1GYYMV1WA	0226320936	776881237	Individualism and Economic Order	Books	5	71	72	N	N	Different Essays, Similar Themes	Individualism and Economic Order contains several classic essays. Chapter two (Economics and Knowledge) examines decentralized economic planning by individuals. Plan coordination among individuals requires each to form plans that contain relevant data from the plans of others. We each acquire this data through competition in markets. Every time someone adjusts their plans, others must also change their plans. So, initial plan coordination requires each to fully anticipate the actions of others. Since this is impossible, order will emerge as a result of successive trials by individuals in markets. The price system enables individuals to adjust their plans with each other through time. This is the foundation of Hayek's theories of spontaneous order and social evolution. Hayek was far ahead of his peers in examining expectations formation.<br />Chapter four (The Use of Knowledge in Society) is another classic. Hayek contends that the economic problem is really one how to make use of fragmented and widely dispersed data. As he indicated in chapter two, full knowledge of economic conditions reduces the economic problem to one of pure logic. Markets increase our ability to take advantage of division of labor and capital formation by extending the span of our utilization of resources beyond the span of any individual mind. The price system in markets does this by acting as a communications network. We can then each dispense with the need for conscious control over resources and rely on our own intimate knowledge of local economic conditions, and price information regarding general economic conditions. This proves that decentralized competitive systems will vastly outperform centrally planned systems.<br />Chapter five looks at the process of competition. Data regarding the least cost methods of satisfying consumer demand comes through the process of competition. The notion of competition as an end state, where we have attained perfect resource allocation, overlooks the importance of the actual processes by which market participants actually compete. Competition is a process of forming opinions and spreading information. It informs us regarding which alternatives are best and cheapest. Those who judge actual market outcomes with theoretical models that assume perfect information are putting the cart before the horse. Competition is the only means by which we can each acquire data on general economic conditions. Governmental bureaucrats do not simply know what the final outcomes of competition are supposed to be. This data is particular to the process of competition itself. We should therefore be wary of those who complain that markets do not deliver perfect competition based on perfect information. Markets are our best source on the data in question, albeit an imperfect one.<br />In chapter seven Hayek lays out the arguments that some make in favor of Socialism. Some claim that greater equality in incomes is worth the loss of efficiency that is inherent to Socialism. Others want to maintain some degree of free choice- consumer and occupational choice. Yet others want to restrict even these areas of personal choice. Socialists face a problem in trying to show how socialist planners could plan production in terms of satisfying consumer desires, without market prices. The labor theory of value did not explain actual behavior, but was instead an \\"a search after some illusory substance of value. Since we lack objective measures of the importance of the needs of different individuals, central planners face \\"a task which far exceeds the powers of individual men\\". In chapter eight Hayek points to specific informational problems that Socialist planners face. Of course, he deals with information in earlier chapters. But this chapter leads into the next. Chapter nine deals with proposals to simulate market competition under socialism. Hayek mentions that even if central planners have full knowledge of economic conditions, the calculations concerning the allocation of all resources is too difficult to perform. After dealing with the absurd notion of full information, Hayek turns to three issues. First, Socialists once aimed at overcoming the results of markets. Now they accept the results of market competition as a standard to aim at. Second, an omniscient and omnipresent dictator would also require omnipotence to plan an economy using their omniscience. Even if they had omniscience, the central planners would still have to work through an imperfect bureaucracy. So the notion of omnipotence is absurd. We must look at the actual bureaucratic problems that planners will face. Third, Perhaps, in a world of unchanging data Socialist planners could arrive at efficient prices for the means of production through trial and error. But, with changing data, the plans of the authority will never match the decisions of the 'man on the spot'. Hayek discusses incentive problems and knowledge problems at length, and also mentions the potential for abuse by concentrating power into the hands a few. This is the subject of his book \\"The Road to Serfdom\\".<br />The other chapters are not what I would call classics, but are generally of a high quality. Chapter eleven deals with an aspect of trade cycle theory. Chapter six (Free Enterprise and Competitive Order) deals with the limits of market and government and the influence of ideas. This is not Hayek's best effort in explaining these matters. Chapter one (Individualism, True and False) is much better. It discusses the drive to control individual action based on alleged notions of reason. True individualism requires humility towards the processes by which societal order emerges, not as a result of deliberate planning by any particular individual, but as an unintended consequence of self-serving individual interaction.<br />These are ideas that far too few appreciate. This book is key to understanding the way Hayek thought about social problems in general. The chapters might seem disjointed in the table of contents, but they have much in common. Anyone serious about understanding how society works should read this book, especially if they tend to disagree with the author's pro free market stance. Hayek is one of the worthiest opponents that Socialists face, and this book is one of his best.ning the allocation of all resources is too difficult to perform. After dealing with the absurd notion of full information, Hayek turns to three issues. First, Socialists once aimed at overcoming the results of markets. Now they accept the results of market competition as a standard to aim at. Second, an omniscient and omnipresent dictator would also require omnipotence to plan an economy using their omniscience. Even if they had omniscience, the central planners would still have to work through an imperfect bureaucracy. So the notion of omnipotence is absurd. We must look at the actual bureaucratic problems that planners will face. Third, Perhaps, in a world of unchanging data Socialist planners could arrive at efficient prices for the means of production through trial and error. But, with changing data, the plans of the authority will never match the decisions of the 'man on the spot'. Hayek discusses incentive problems and knowledge problems at length, and also mentions the potential for abuse by concentrating power into the hands a few. This is the subject of his book \\"The Road to Serfdom\\".<br />The other chapters are not what I would call classics, but are generally of a high quality. Chapter eleven deals with an aspect of trade cycle theory. Chapter six (Free Enterprise and Competitive Order) deals with the limits of market and government and the influence of ideas. This is not Hayek's best effort in explaining these matters. Chapter one (Individualism, True and False) is much better. It discusses the drive to control individual action based on alleged notions of reason. True individualism requires humility towards the processes by which societal order emerges, not as a result of deliberate planning by any particular individual, but as an unintended consequence of self-serving individual interaction. <br />These are ideas that far too few appreciate. This book is key to understanding the way Hayek thought about social problems in general. The chapters might seem disjointed in the table of contents, but they have much in common. Anyone serious about understanding how society works should read this book, especially if they tend to disagree with the author's pro free market stance. Hayek is one of the worthiest opponents that Socialists face, and this book is one of his best.	2003-10-23
US	47914705	R3GLRDMH72A63N	0684835541	155478329	One World Ready or Not: The Manic Logic of Global Capitalism	Books	1	45	71	N	N	Amateur Opinions in Print	Grieder likes playing the role of a public intellectual- one who cuts through it all to see what is really going on. One who sees all that escapes supposed experts, particularly economists. What he sees is a destructive machine that is out of control. There is no one at the wheel of global capitalism, it is wreaking havoc, and will undo itself. To prove this point he describes capitalism and `free market theory' with disparaging adjectives. To make his case he needs do explain why these theories are wrong and provide valid evidence. He does neither.<br />His evidence is at best, anecdotal. At worst it is from questionable or unnamed sources. Discussion of the free market concepts he opposes is almost totally lacking. The author claims that free market economics is unscientific and derides it as `dogma' and `a value laden form of prophecy' (p48). But, he tells his audience little about these supposedly false ideas. In fact, he admits (p53) that he does not argue much with this `dogma'. So he admits to evading a serious discussion of the concepts he slanders.<br />He speaks in terms of absurdly simplistic supply and demand type reasoning, and mentions arbitrage, but he ignores the real issues that pertain to his subject matter. His chapter on wages and work ignores the issue of labor productivity- he barely mentions it (p67+76). The economic arguments that he dismisses hinge on marginal productivity, but it is not clear that knows anything about this supposed dogma. Instead, he focuses on income distribution between capital and labor. He sees international competition in labor markets as benefiting capital- consumers seem not to benefit from this at all. Later in this book (p122), he stumbles into the notion that competition benefits consumers, but fails to realize that he has damaged his own argument.<br />Greider claims that the most successful Asian economies rejected Laissez Faire and free markets (p87). But, the most successful postwar Asian economies (including Japan) have some of the freest markets. They have some governmental intervention, but far less than other nations. This is not Laissez Faire in the strictest sense, but who would deny that Hong Kong has a high degree of Laissez Faire? Successful Asian nations developed after considerable (not complete) privatization and deregulation.<br />He writes that the general claim by economists that free trade benefits people generally and causes only temporary and narrowly focused dislocation (p73) is wrong. His condemnation of trade theory is strong, yet he fails to demonstrate an understanding of important concepts, like the principle of comparative advantage. If he wants to engage in idle conjecture that is fine. But if he is going to claim that the experts are generally wrong, he could at least demonstrate a basic understanding of what the experts actually say.<br />Greider is fond of labor unions. He employs a simplistic high wages=prosperity argument to argue that labor competition benefits capital only and is per see bad for workers (p59). Efforts to restrict competition do raise wages for some workers. It also renders other workers unemployable (productivity matters) Greider provides an example of this principle in action with his Thailand example of job losses following higher minimum wages (p 70). This contradicts his dismissal of economic theory. Greider also writes much about things like social cohesion, shared responsibility, and collective identity. These are catchy phases, but indicate little more than his own dissatisfaction with current trends. He claims that people are helpless in the face of global capitalism, but voluntary consumer spending drives it. There is `someone' at the wheel of global capitalism- global consumers.<br />Greider also has nice things to say about Veblen and Keynes (p51-2). In Veblen's case, there is some reason to show some admiration. Veblen was an interesting, though mistaken thinker. Keynes is a different matter. Greider tries tosubstitute discredited Keynesian ideas regarding overproduction for sound economic theory. He explains neither theory, provides no relevant evidence, and instead assumes the superiority of the demand-side economics of Keynes. This is mere conjecture rather than argument.<br />Greider complains that America is the worlds `buyer of last resort' that absorbs surplus production. We supposedly buy imported VCR's, TV's, cars, beer, and clothing not because we derive consumer satisfaction from these goods. We are desperately trying to prop up global Capitalism by spending beyond our means! This, of course, is doomed to failure because we cannot accumulate debt forever. So he accepts Keynesian theory, which promotes deficit spending, but complains about he practice of deficit spending.<br />Greider admires Keynes' optimism about the supposed possibility of abundance (p440). Once having solved the economic problem, we can `become social beings on a larger scale, discarding barbarism' and so on.  Instead of private property in capital, we should have universal capital ownership- in other words, socialism. Greider dodges all the economic objections concerning socialism, all the incentive and knowledge problems. Instead he whines about how Capitalism induces `infantile responses'- the pursuit of self interest and evasion of responsibility for collateral consequences of actions. This all reveals that Greider is merely a utopian dreamer. Limited life spans and physical resources put abundance permanently out of reach. Self interest is a part of human nature. As for evading responsibility, that is what socialism does. It socializes costs. Property rights enforcement under Capitalism forces people to bear responsibility for their actions. Some try to avoid this, but that is a violation of Capitalist ethics, not a consequence of them.<br />Perhaps his most obvious error is in blaming industrial capitalism for the rise of Nazism (p38). Everybody knows that the treaty of Versailles and hyperinflation wrecked German economy and led to Hitler's rise to power- everybody but Greider.<br />Grieder derides professional opinion rather than criticizing it. Of course, there is no reason why amateurs cannot criticize professional opinion. But Greider does not do this. He offers conjecture, derision, and utopian fantasies, but no substantive analysis. This book should not be taken seriously.o substitute discredited Keynesian ideas regarding overproduction for sound economic theory. He explains neither theory, provides no relevant evidence, and instead assumes the superiority of the demand-side economics of Keynes. This is mere conjecture rather than argument.<br />Greider complains that America is the worlds `buyer of last resort' that absorbs surplus production. We supposedly buy imported VCR's, TV's, cars, beer, and clothing not because we derive consumer satisfaction from these goods. We are desperately trying to prop up global Capitalism by spending beyond our means! This, of course, is doomed to failure because we cannot accumulate debt forever. So he accepts Keynesian theory, which promotes deficit spending, but complains about he practice of deficit spending. <br />Greider admires Keynes' optimism about the supposed possibility of abundance (p440). Once having solved the economic problem, we can `become social beings on a larger scale, discarding barbarism' and so on.  Instead of private property in capital, we should have universal capital ownership- in other words, socialism. Greider dodges all the economic objections concerning socialism, all the incentive and knowledge problems. Instead he whines about how Capitalism induces `infantile responses'- the pursuit of self interest and evasion of responsibility for collateral consequences of actions. This all reveals that Greider is merely a utopian dreamer. Limited life spans and physical resources put abundance permanently out of reach. Self interest is a part of human nature. As for evading responsibility, that is what socialism does. It socializes costs. Property rights enforcement under Capitalism forces people to bear responsibility for their actions. Some try to avoid this, but that is a violation of Capitalist ethics, not a consequence of them.<br />Perhaps his most obvious error is in blaming industrial capitalism for the rise of Nazism (p38). Everybody knows that the treaty of Versaillesand hyperinflation wrecked German economy and led to Hitler's rise to power- everybody but Greider. <br />Grieder derides professional opinion rather than criticizing it. Of course, there is no reason why amateurs cannot criticize professional opinion. But Greider does not do this. He offers conjecture, derision, and utopian fantasies, but no substantive analysis. This book should not be taken seriously.	2003-09-17
US	47914705	R22JTV3QULTIOL	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	2	30	56	N	N	Great Examples, Poor Analysis	The author of this book makes several specific claims. First, free market ideology at the IMF resulted in privatization and deregulation in Asia and Eastern Europe. Second, free market ideology assumes perfect information and perfect competition. Third, markets lack perfection and fail. Fourth, critics of government claim that government policy favors special interests, but this it does not. On page 13 Stiglitz derides the notion that \\"special interests use tariffs and other protectionist measures to increase their incomes at the expense of others\\". He claims that those who criticize government for inherent bias towards special interests are ideologues. The rest of his book consists almost entirely of examples of special interests benefiting at the expense of others, thus vindicating these supposed ideologues.<br />Stiglitz describes how bailouts benefited well-connected financial interests in the US, Asia, and Russia. He describes, in some detail, how special interests made off with fortunes, while ordinary people shouldered the burden of these subsidies. This supports the case for government failure, though the author fails to realize this.<br />Stiglitz also criticizes the IMF for assuming that it could outguess the market with its' interventions and demands for restructuring. He points to examples of in Russia of private firms being squeezed while cronies of Yeltsin made off with millions. On page 118 Stiglitz complains that the IMF interfered with \\"nuts-and-bolts decisions: what the firm should produce, how it should produce its' output, and how it should be organized\\".  On page 128 he complains that the IMF forced bank restructuring on Indonesia. These examples of intervention invalidate his claim that the IMF forced privatization and instead show that it pursued interventionist policies.<br />The evidence in this book refutes its' arguments. Rather than being driven by `free market fervor' the IMF intervened in markets routinely. Rather than serving the general public with this intervention, the IMF catered to special interests- a tendency that Stiglitz explicitly ridiculed. Rather than believing in Darwinian competition, the IMF delivered huge bailouts to special interests. The IMF promoted free markets every bit as much as the Pope promoted Atheism.<br />On page 74 Stiglitz claims that markets require perfect competition and perfect information to work. Short of these ideal conditions, markets fail (to achieve perfection) and government can, in principle, improve resource allocation. A perfect government can improve upon imperfect markets. But the evidence of this book shows that the worst failures come from huge governmental agencies, like the IMF and US Treasury- the primary culprits in this book. Stiglitz is fond of making false comparisons between imperfect markets and ideal notions of government, but this approach is fallacious.<br />Stiglitz explicitly denies that rapid privatization can work, but ignores instances like Hong Kong and West Germany, where rapid and extreme privatization yielded `economic miracles'. He speaks fondly of a larger and more open global governing body. But, Stiglitz shows that current global governing agencies cater to special interests and gives the reader no reason to expect anything different from a larger agency of this kind. If anything, a larger and more powerful gobal regulatory agency would be even more corrupt than the IMF.<br />The proper lesson to learn from this book is that big government caters to narrow special interests, at the expense of the general population. Stiglitz advocates stronger world organizations based on misinterpretation of the facts he presents, and his politically naïve belief that bigger government means better government. We should instead take the politically savvy view that we must choose between large centralized agencies that cater to special interests and dismantling large centralized agencies so that they lose the ability to cater to such interests. Based on its' analysis, this book deserves one star. It misinterprets data and misconstrues theory so badly that one must wonder how Stiglitz got so for in the economics profession. The empirics of this book raise it to two stars, as it provides so many good examples of government failure. Read this book for great examples of how global government operates, but read something by Mancur Olson first so you can approach it with proper theoretical constructs.ests. Based on its' analysis, this book deserves one star. It misinterprets data and misconstrues theory so badly that one must wonder how Stiglitz got so for in the economics profession. The empirics of this book raise it to two stars, as it provides so many good examples of government failure. Read this book for great examples of how global government operates, but read something by Mancur Olson first so you can approach it with proper theoretical constructs.	2003-07-21
US	47914705	R2KCV4AV9IOT7L	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	1	25	56	N	N	It's Really about Politics, Stupid	The main point of this book is that Bill Clinton did a better job of running the economy than is George Bush. Begala credits Clinton with all that went well during his term as President, and blames Bush for all that has gone wrong since Clinton left. This simplistic association ignores the real facts concerning recent economic conditions. Begala dismisses the claim that Bill Gates and Al Greenspan made the nineties what they were by pointing out that they are still around, and good times are not. The fact is that Federal Reserve policy and economic conditions track each other pretty closely. Greenspan pushed monetary policy during the early nineties, got a boom going, and then pulled back in 2000 to prevent inflation. Clinton's only part in this was to renominate Greenspan (Reagan nominated AG the first time). Bush has yet to nominate any Federal Reserve chairmen.<br />The only valid point he makes is that Clinton went along with an improvement (reduction) in tariffs, while Bush signed an increase in tariffs. Aside from this he merely argues that Democrats run the country for the benefit of `the people', while Republicans give money to wealthy special interests who do not need or deserve more.<br />Begala focuses only on issues that play into his parties' political agenda- income distribution and special interests. This is worth writing about, but not pertinent to overall economic conditions, which depend upon monetary policy and relative price and wage rates. There are many examples in this book of Republicans catering to special interests. This is a matter for concern, but the author ignores the fact that his own party does the same thing, and with many of the same exact interest groups. Which major party caters to wealthy trial lawyers and CPA's???<br />The author does not shy away from personal attacks. Begala makes personal remarks against his political opponents throughout his book. These, as you might expect, are mainly against Republicans, but not always. Begala refers to Green Party voters as goofballs, stupid, self absorbed, and infantile. He blames them for Al Gore losing his bid for the presidency, as if they were somehow obligated vote for Democrats. Begala's near constant personal remarks indicate that he is not interested in a serious discussion.<br />The title of this book indicates that it is primarily about economics, but this is hardly the case. This book is merely a political attack, penned by someone who is mad about the outcome of an election. His personal attacks do not prove his main argument. Neither do the statistics he cites. His problem is not merely that correlation does not imply causation. The correlative evidence in his book is so shoddy and thin, that even those not trained in formal economic analysis should see right through it. Someone should also tell him that this recession ended shortly after the Bush tax cut passed and got  signed into law (this recession lasted from March 2001 to Nov 2001). Given Begala's affinity for simplistic correlations, he should credit Bush for ending the recession with his tax cut, not that this would be accurate.<br />Begala overlooks one simple fact- Presidents do not run the economy. If there was a central agency of economic planning, chaired by the President, Begala would be right to read recent experiences as he does. Fortunately, the US stayed of the socialist bandwagon of the 20th century. We have a largely free market system where private citizens 'run the economy' and government has limited authority to interfere. Some of this interference comes from Presidents, but when examining business cycles, one should look at Fed policy first. This book is really all about political bickering, nothing more.Begala refers to Green Party voters as goofballs, stupid, self absorbed, and infantile. He blames them for Al Gore losing his bid for the presidency, as if they were somehow obligated vote for Democrats. Begala's near constant personal remarks indicate that he is not interested in a serious discussion.<br />The title of this book indicates that it is primarily about economics, but this is hardly the case. This book is merely a political attack, penned by someone who is mad about the outcome of an election. His personal attacks do not prove his main argument. Neither do the statistics he cites. His problem is not merely that correlation does not imply causation. The correlative evidence in his book is so shoddy and thin, that even those not trained in formal economic analysis should see right through it. Someone should also tell him that this recession ended shortly after the Bush tax cut passed and got  signed into law (this recession lasted from March 2001 to Nov 2001). Given Begala's affinity for simplistic correlations, he should credit Bush for ending the recession with his tax cut, not that this would be accurate.<br />Begala overlooks one simple fact- Presidents do not run the economy. If there was a central agency of economic planning, chaired by the President, Begala would be right to read recent experiences as he does. Fortunately, the US stayed of the socialist bandwagon of the 20th century. We have a largely free market system where private citizens 'run the economy' and government has limited authority to interfere. Some of this interference comes from Presidents, but when examining business cycles, one should look at Fed policy first. This book is really all about political bickering, nothing more.	2003-07-12
US	47914705	R1D52SANVXCZJO	0452280524	225550589	New Ideas from Dead Economists: An Introduction to Modern Economic Thought	Books	1	45	64	N	N	Simplistic and Incomplete	The title of 'New Ideas from Dead Economists' is the most clever part of this book. The early sections on Smith, Ricardo, and Malthus lacked depth. Buchholz brought in too many contemporary topics in his discussion of Smith, and as is common, did not pay proper attention to Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments. His discussions of Malthus and Ricardo are better, but he tries to hard to be entertaining rather than informative.<br /><br />Bucholz fails badly with Keynes, Marx and Veblen. What he discusses of Keynes is not wrong, but there is far more to discuss. His chapter on Marx suffers from similar problems. He hits on the better known aspects of Marx's life and Marxian theory. Most readers would benefit from greater detail. His section on Veblen is about the worst part of this book. His interpretation of 'The Engineers and the Price System' is just plain wrong. The author cites some simple statistics on the education of businessmen and engineers in an effort to refute Veblen. This proves only that he misinterprets this material.<br /><br />The author's discussion of new institutionalists is on target, but brief. His discussion of Rational Expectations is hardly worth reading. He seems to want to mock RE, but with enemies like Buchholz, Bob Lucas has little need of friends. The section on Public Choice is so incomplete, that readers are better off ignoring this too.<br /><br />He has a good discussion of Marshall. But Marshall is not a particularly interesting economist. Bucholz mentions Hayek from time to time, but should have had a separate chapter for him, along with Mises.<br /><br />The key problem with this book is that the author was more interested in keeping his readers entertained than in informing them. Readers that need a book to be 'cute' are never really going to get into economics. Readers that will really get interested in these ideas are better off getting more of just that, and in a fittingly serious tone.	2003-04-27
US	47914705	R22M2NHWCU0I12	0415121205	506765655	The Economics of Time and Ignorance: With a New Introduction (Routledge Foundations of the Market Economy)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Take some Time to Dispel Your Ignorance	This book does much to advance the marginalist-subjectivist paradigm in economics. Most economists treat time trivially in their analysis. Some, like Gary Becker, correctly recognize the need to examine how people allocate the only non-renewable resource- time. The Becker approach uses static equilibrium models to address this issue. This represents an advance over the rest of mainstream analysis, but holds the data that people acquire through time constant. This makes convergence on equilibrium conditions possible, if not certain.<br />Following the work of Mises and Hayek, the authors of this book examine the implications of how knowledge develops through time. As people interact, they learn and change data relevant to their economic plans. We learn and create knowledge simultaneously, and do this differently depending upon the choices we make. Consequently, convergence on equilibrium conditions in markets is not inevitable, and may not even be possible. This makes the concepts of 'real time' and 'ignorance' that the authors discuss relevant to all economics analysis.<br />This allows us to consider information problems other than second best rational ignorance. We not only know that we do not know some things. We face gaps in our data concerning what we consider finding out about.<br />This does not mean that equilibrating forces do not exist. It means only that we must consider open ended processes in markets. This is not a new proposition. Adam Smith, the founder of economics as a distinct discipline, thought in evolutionary and process orientated terms.<br />If there is anything wrong with this book, it is that the authors might be a little too dismissive of conventional economics. Conventional notions of supply, demand, and equilibrium help us to understand economics more than the authors will admit. This approach simplifies many real world complexities. The static approach is not entirely unreal, and does contain enough reality to play an important role in economic analysis. Mainstream economists should, however, be mindful of the extent to which static optimization models fail to explain real world phenomena.economic analysis. Mainstream economists should, however, be mindful of the extent to which static optimization models fail to explain real world phenomena.	2003-03-22
US	47914705	R2JZAXH08IHN11	0691003548	915455820	A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960	Books	4	81	87	N	N	An Excellent Partial History	Monetary History of the US served a vital purpose when it first came out, and still has much use value. For a brief period, economists ignored the importance of variations in the nominal quantity of money to business cycles. This book provided important evidence that helped correct that error. Economists used to focus on spending rather than the money supply. This book, along with subsequent work, showed that money matters.<br />The most important part of this book is the section on the Great Contraction. Federal Reserve policy did contract the money supply by 1/3 during the early years of the depression. The Federal Reserve did revive the depression by increasing reserve requirements in 1937. The collapse of the banking system collapsed the real economy. The recovery of the banking system was important to the recovery of industry. Money matters.<br />The style of this book is excellent. Considering the sophistication of its subject matter, it is highly readable. It gets into both statistics and relevant written history. It also has a helpful appendix on the determinants of the money supply.<br />There are some problems with this book. Money is not all that matters. Government policies that prevented wage deflation contributed greatly to the Great Depression. Of course, this book was meant to focus on monetary history alone, as the title implies. But, readers must keep the limitations of such a narrow focus in mind when considering the explanatory power of this book. Its' authors also have too little appreciation for private banking systems (Friedman latter embraced free banking). Despite its' limitations, this book is important as a empirical source for understanding how money matters to economic conditions.	2003-03-22
US	47914705	R15BUY30P65PE2	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	1	47	63	N	N	Errors of Omission and Inclusion	The main value in this book is its critique of modern economics. Heilbroner correctly notes the `lack of vision' in modern economics. Modern economists have abandoned worldly philosophy that examines different visions of society in favor of narrow technical issues and `formal' models of the economy. These issues are, however, better dealt with in Heilbroner's subsequent book The Crisis of Vision in Modern Economic Thought.<br /><br />The problem with The Worldly Philosophers is in content rather than its approach. There are serious errors of omission in this book. Heilbroner ignores several great thinkers of the twentieth century. Karl Popper's books on 'The Open Society' and his work on positvism deserved mention. Heilbroner also could have write a page or two on 'The Great Transformation' by Polanyi. Perhaps the biggest omission was Ludwig von Mises. Mises wrote important books on socialism, trade cycles, government and politics, ideology, and a 900 page treatise (Human Action), but was ignored in this book. Heilbroner could have written at least a few pages on Mises and Friedrich Hayek. By the time Heilbroner wrote his book Hayek had already published several books on trade cycles (building upon Mises), the Road to Serfdom (a classic in political economy), and was the leading figure in the debate over socialism during the 1930's. Hayek developed (also based on earlier work by Mises) a subtle critique of socialism based on the dispersed nature of practical knowledge. He published the papers from this debate in 1948- long before the 1st edition of the Wordly Philosophers. Hayek was also Keynes' primary opponent in the 1930's debate over the causes of the Great Depression. Heilbroner's chapter on Keynes should examined the Hayek/Keyes debate, but did not.<br /><br />Heilbroner could have illustrated his complaints about modern economics with a chapter on the Cambridge Capital Controversy. This would have given him a chance to discuss the worldly philosophy of Joan Robinson.<br /><br />Heilbroner wasted time on minor figures like Henry George and Robert Owen. He also included some whose focus was quite narrow compared to other 'wordly philosophers', like Alfred Marshall. Did Marshall really develop a grand vision of society? Heilbroner does a poor job in explaining the ideas of many legitimate worldly philosophers. Heilbroner does a poor job of explaining important concepts from Smith's Wealth of Nations. He does too little to explain the Smith's thinking on coordination and evolution in society. Then there is Smith's other great work- 'The Theory of Moral Sentiments'. Smith's other book deserved careful attention, but got very little. Heilbroner should have David Hume's in the same chapter with Smith. He might have discussed Montesqiue and Ferguson as well. A natural rights chapter on Rousseau, Locke, and Hobbes should have preceeded the chapter on Smith.<br /><br />The chapter on Marx might have given more attention to some of the more prominent Marxists of the twentieth century. Some twentieth century Marxists have made efforts to revise their paradigm, and Heilbroner should have paid more attention to modern developments in Marxism. Part of this discussion could have examined Lenin and Trotsky. Heilbroner should have examined two economists who examined Marx from a Neoclassical perspective: Maurice Dobb and Oscar Lange.<br /><br />All the changes I suggest would have made TWP a little longer and somewhat more complicated, but also more informative and compelling. Heilbroner had a great idea for a book, but the execution of this idea was seriously flawed. Heilbroner should have overhauled the content of TWP, but it is too late for that now. My one star rating might seem harsh, but there are some real missed opportunities here.eilbroner wasted time on minor figures like Henry George and Robert Owen. He also included some whose focus was quite narrow compared to other 'wordly philosophers', like Alfred Marshall. Did Marshall really develop a grand vision of society? Heilbroner does a poor job in explaining the ideas of many legitimate worldly philosophers. Heilbroner does a poor job of explaining important concepts from Smith's Wealth of Nations. He does too little to explain the Smith's thinking on coordination and evolution in society. Then there is Smith's other great work- 'The Theory of Moral Sentiments'. Smith's other book deserved careful attention, but got very little. Heilbroner should have David Hume's in the same chapter with Smith. He might have discussed Montesqiue and Ferguson as well. A natural rights chapter on Rousseau, Locke, and Hobbes should have preceeded the chapter on Smith.     The chapter on Marx might have given more attention to some of the more prominent Marxists of the twentieth century. Some twentieth century Marxists have made efforts to revise their paradigm, and Heilbroner should have paid more attention to modern developments in Marxism. Part of this discussion could have examined Lenin and Trotsky. Heilbroner should have examined two economists who examined Marx from a Neoclassical perspective: Maurice Dobb and Oscar Lange.     All the changes I suggest would have made TWP a little longer and somewhat more complicated, but also more informative and compelling. Heilbroner had a great idea for a book, but the execution of this idea was seriously flawed. Heilbroner should have overhauled the content of TWP, but it is too late for that now. My one star rating might seem harsh, but there are some real missed opportunities here.	2003-03-11
US	47914705	R1KB2Q172G0P7X	0262611406	302363690	A Guide to Econometrics - 4th Edition	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Mandatory Reading for Economists	Kennedy's Guide to Econometrics explains econometrics more clearly than any other book I have read. This book will not make you into an econometrician. But, this is definitely the place to start your education on empirical methods in economics.<br />For a book of this size, he covers a lot of territory. He covers the CLR model and hypothesis testing well, and discusses a few other things too. This guide is hardly encyclopedic. However, it covers the things economists need to know most.<br />Kennedy does more than just explain econometrics. He spells out the limits of econometric analysis. Texts often pay little attention to the 'con in econometrics'. Not Kennedy. He discusses the limitations and defects in standard techniques, as well as their advantages.<br />The only thing wrong with this book is that it does not carry the reader along far enough. After reading this book, most reader's will likely move on to a standard (i.e. badly written) econometrics textbook. In contrast, this book is written so well that it almost makes learning econometrics fun!	2003-03-07
US	47914705	R7MBS0EC285O4	0691042640	515367175	A Course in Microeconomic Theory	Books	3	25	32	N	N	Apart from the Rest...	A Course in Microeconomic Theory is one of the best mainstream price theory texts available. There are mistakes in this book. Kreps takes Walrasian equilibrium a bit too seriously. He admits to the unreal nature of important parts of Walrasian equilibrium. He admits that it does not tell us how markets work, and that it omits important institutions, like money. Kreps refers to the Walrasian Auctioneer as fairly unrealistic (p 195), when the adjective utterly might be more fitting.<br /><br />He also takes 'benevolent social Dictators' too seriously. The next edition of this book would be much superior if the author were to pay more attention to Public Choice theory.<br /><br />However, he does explain economic concepts fairly well. This is not just an exercise in mathematical games. Much of the math that he uses is game theoretic. Kreps included an entire section on game theory. He uses more math than one really needs to understand economics, but the math that he does use is the most useful there is.<br /><br />There is an entire section on information economics. It goes farther than most other price theory texts in discussing this important topic, though not far enough.<br /><br />This books biggest strength is its' section on transaction costs theories of the firm. Here the author remedies much of the unreal character of price theory. This alone sets it apart from other mainstream texts.<br /><br />This book is the best at teaching mainstream economics. Kreps is modest in his claims about the realism regarding standard models of competitive equilibrium, and explains concepts and techniques well. He also focuses on the many of the right concepts and techniques. The main defect in this book is that it does not go far enough in adding realism to price theory.	2003-03-07
US	47914705	R32BP8AWWKD6ZC	0691003955	973780626	Game Theory for Applied Economists	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Great Little Book- for Economists	Gibbons makes learning game theory easy. Game Theory for Applied Economists explains both how to solve and the ideas behind game theoretic models carefully. This enables students to better see how the math applies to how people vie in markets. It also makes it accessable to students who do not already know a great deal of math. Game Theory for Applied Economists could be used as an undergraduate text, as well as a supplemetal text in graduate school. Some of the other reviewers find this book difficult, but it is easy compared to most math-econ texts.<br /><br />There is alot more to game theory that what you see in this book, but this book teaches enough game theory for a good general understanding of this subject. This book covers the concepts all should start with, no matter where you end up heading with game theory. Everyone planning to attend graduate school for economics should read this book.	2003-03-07
US	47914705	R23PFDAFB1ATAN	0521585295	321933454	Mathematical Methods and Models for Economists	Books	3	28	31	N	Y	Second Best Optimal	'Mathematical Methods' is the best math econ text you can buy. It does a far better job of explaining math modeling than Takayama or Simone and Blume. It reads better than Chiang. Its' broad coverage of techniques should be enough to satisfy most any instructor.<br />It starts off by running through some important basics- set theory, Venn diagrams, proofs. It then works up to calculus and optimization. It could use some more game theory, and should ditch the section on ISLM. The main strength of this book is that, unlike other math econ texts, one can read and understand it without prior knowledge of advanced mathmatics.<br />Of course, nobody really needs to learn all, or even most of, the math in this book. To get credentails as an economist, students must jump through many a mathematical hoop. This book helps students through this better than any of the alternatives. It has a reasonable paperback price too. Do not expect to have much fun reading 'Mathematical Methods'. Just bear in mind that there are far worse books to use in studying math econ.	2003-03-07
US	47914705	R2HM2ID8FBAOE	0195073401	680945686	Microeconomic Theory	Books	1	45	68	N	N	Style over Substance	This book does an excellent job of representing modern economic theory, or to put it more clearly, it represents all that is wrong with modern economic theory. At very best, economic theory now consists largely of commonsense propositions that academics translate into the least comprehensible form. At worst, modern economic theory dwells entirely on pure thought experiments. Such thought experiments are misleading and inaccurate because of their focus on equilibrium conditions (i.e. the solution values to systems of equations). This is not to say that the contents of this book are completely detached from reality. People do react to incentives in much the same way as described in this book. But people do not ever attain so called \\"equilibrium conditions\\".<br /><br />The basic incentive issues in economics are actually quite easy to sort out. Many undergraduate textbooks do just fine explaining incentive issues in economics using verbal logic. Instead of clear and concise verbal logic that most anyone can understand, Mas Colel, Whinston and Green employ sophisticated math models. Why?<br /><br />I have heard many arguments in favor of this approach. `Verbal logic is not logical'. `The verbal approach is too easy'. `You can only understand economics using math'. `Math models are really cool'. `Math is formal'. `You must learn the tools of mathematical analysis so you can read professional journals'.<br /><br />The fact if the matter is that one can depict complex concepts either with words or with math. Math does not necessarily deliver the right answers. Some math models `prove' that markets are efficient, others `prove' that markets fail. This proves only that some math models must be dead wrong. As for formalism, this is an application of the fallacy of style. The validity of any idea never depends upon the manner in which we present it. As for reading journals, the argument that we must learn math modeling because we cannot read journal without it begs the question. Why do we need complex math models in journals?<br /><br />We do not. Logic is logic, verbal or mathematical. Of course, verbal presentations can be flawed too, but anyone who dismisses the verbal approach for this commits the fallacy of false comparisons. There are bad uses of math too. The verbal approach is superior because more people can understand it more easily. The `formal' approach in this book also tends to distract academics from real issues. The notion of competitive equilibrium is a mere thought experiment that has absolutely no relevance to the real world. Yet, many economists focus their attention on constructing ever more sophisticated Walrasian thought experiments. What does this accomplish?<br /><br />Unfortunately, many enter the economics profession simply because they have fun solving systems of mathematical equations. They like solving math models for the same reasons that others like solving cross word puzzles- it's a game! For others, constructing math models is a contest to see who can perform the most spectacular intellectual gymnastics. Rather than being formal and professional, the approach that this book takes to economics represents a juvenile attitude whereby real economic analysis is set aside so that math obsessed \\"economists\\" can engage in a contest to see who can devise the most elegant math model. As Milton Friedman put it recently, economists now use math to impress rather than to inform.<br /><br />This book reveals the sad fact that many economists are doing work that is worthless. This is a sad fact because economics is very important. Things are better with empirical economics- there is some good economic history and econometrics out there. Obsession with math modeling has made current theoretical economics irrelevant, except to those who have fun playing math games. It is also a fact that many formalists fail to understand even the most basic concepts in economics, even in their own fields- I have verified this through numerous conversations with formalists. They are too busy working out formal proofs, like the ones that litter this book, to bother with the concepts that math is supposedly indispensable for understanding.<br /><br />Some would say that this book teaches the tools of technical analysis. What it really teaches how to perform intellectual gymnastics. The authors do work a few substantive concepts into their math. Unfortunately, the substance of this book is almost as poor as its presentation. The authors demonstrate little understanding of the transactions costs/property rights economics developed by Coase, Demsetz, and Alchian and no understanding of Hayek's knowledge problem. This books discussion of public goods and monopoly suffer from a lack of understanding of these concepts. There is little Public Choice in this book. They take a run through the Arrow theorem, but that's about all you will find on Public Choice here. Real institutions and processes get almost no play in this book. The best parts are the parts on game theory. Here the authors stray away from their useless thought experiments and hit on some real issues. There are vastly superior books on game theory, so this bright spot hardly makes up for this books general deficiencies.<br /><br />This book is a disaster because it conditions graduate students to think in terms of static equilibrium only. Of course, the authors might claim that chapter twenty covers dynamics, but this is untrue. Chapter twenty covers the oxymoronic subject of \\"dynamic equilibrium\\". Joseph Schumpeter explained why capitalism cannot be understood in terms of any equilibrium model or \\"golden rule\\" back in 1912. The economists who hail this book as the best book out there, or even slightly useful, have been taken in by some very elaborate and mathematically sophisticated nonsense. If you want to learn real economics read Schumpeter, Knight, Coase, Hayek, North... anybody but MWG.<br /><br />Lucky graduate students will get Nicholson as a graduate textbook. Given the current obsession with formalism, most will be misled by Mas Colel, Whinston and Green. One can only hope that the current trend toward formalism will burn itself out soon, through its own irrelevance. Then there might be a revival of real economics, practiced by true professionals.are too busy working out formal proofs, like the ones that litter this book, to bother with the concepts that math is supposedly indispensable for understanding.     Some would say that this book teaches the tools of technical analysis. What it really teaches how to perform intellectual gymnastics. The authors do work a few substantive concepts into their math. Unfortunately, the substance of this book is almost as poor as its presentation. The authors demonstrate little understanding of the transactions costs/property rights economics developed by Coase, Demsetz, and Alchian and no understanding of Hayek's knowledge problem. This books discussion of public goods and monopoly suffer from a lack of understanding of these concepts. There is little Public Choice in this book. They take a run through the Arrow theorem, but that's about all you will find on Public Choice here. Real institutions and processes get almost no play in this book. The best parts are the parts on game theory. Here the authors stray away from their useless thought experiments and hit on some real issues. There are vastly superior books on game theory, so this bright spot hardly makes up for this books general deficiencies.    This book is a disaster because it conditions graduate students to think in terms of static equilibrium only. Of course, the authors might claim that chapter twenty covers dynamics, but this is untrue. Chapter twenty covers the oxymoronic subject of \\"dynamic equilibrium\\". Joseph Schumpeter explained why capitalism cannot be understood in terms of any equilibrium model or \\"golden rule\\" back in 1912. The economists who hail this book as the best book out there, or even slightly useful, have been taken in by some very elaborate and mathematically sophisticated nonsense. If you want to learn real economics read Schumpeter, Knight, Coase, Hayek, North... anybody but MWG.    Lucky graduate students will get Nicholson as a graduate textbook. Given the current obsession with formalism, most will be misled by Mas Colel, Whinston and Green. One can only hope that the current trend toward formalism will burn itself out soon, through its own irrelevance. Then there might be a revival of real economics, practiced by true professionals.	2003-02-20
US	47914705	R2POOZDYU8F4MI	0226904237	167681610	The Myth of Democratic Failure: Why Political Institutions Are Efficient (American Politics and Political Economy Series)	Books	1	34	39	N	N	The Myth of Democratic Efficiency	\\"The Myth of Dmocratic Failure\\" fails utterly to demonstrate the efficiency of democratic institutions and procedures. There are several problems with Wittman's analysis. First, Wittman addresses only the easiest scenarios in the analysis of democracy. In looking at voting, he considers only a simple single peaked left-right issue space. Once we allow for multiple issue dimensions and multi peaked distributions, his faith in democratic efficiency becomes untenable. Second, he advances empirical propositions as if they were logical proofs. Wittman's arguments consist of a series of possibility theorems (John Lotts review of this book points this out). Unlike logical proofs, possibility theorems require empirical evidence to be taken seriously. Rather than dealing with relevant empirical evidence, Wittman ignores most of it.<br /><br />The most obvious failure of this book is that it ignores most of the literature on special interest groups. Wittman's chapter on this is only ten pages long. Worse still, he ignores most of the work that Mancur Olson did on this subject. Olson published detailed and insightful comparisons of autocratic and democratic government. Wittman seems to be unaware of this work. This is an unforgivbale error. Wittman claims that small ethnic and relirious groups are often victimized, and that this disproves the idea of special interest bias. The fact is that such small groups (like the Chinese minority in Indonesia) start out as classic examples of politically influential pressure groups, before mob violence breaks out against them.<br /><br />Wittman claims that people will get political information at a low cost, and will therefore will be well informed. He suggests that people can pass information by word of mouth, and that adverstising by candidates and parties is a reliable and sufficient source of information. These arguments do no prove that voters are well informed. They only suggest that they might be. Empirical evidence shows that voters are not very well informed about the particulars of politics- not even knowing the names of elected representatives. This does not refute Wittman's argument, since he claims that party lables are enough. But, this argument seems to fall out of his acceptance of a single issue dimension. Real politics is far more complex that Wittman's chosen paradigms indicate. The unreal character of this approach makes his arguments hard to be taken as proof. Voters might have 'enough' information, but he does not prove this.<br /><br />Wittman claims that we should expect democratic societies to adopt rules to limit wasteful democratic practices. He believes that democracies maximize wealth. However, the historical and statistical record indicates quite clearly that the economic performance of democracies varies greatly. There are huge differences between the US, Switzerland, and India. Why does India have so much poverty if, as a democracy, it maximizes wealth? The fact is that countries that are relatively undemocratic often outperform democratic countries. The US developed rapidly during the 19th century, when it was much less democratic than it is now. Germany and Hong Kong developed rapidly following WW2- under foreign rather than democratic control. Since becoming more democratic in the 1960's, German economic performance has deteriorated. South Korea developed rapidly under a dictator as well. The newly democratic nations of Eastern Europe have seen less than stellar success as well. Wittman simply ignores the varied performance of democracies, as well as the economic success of non democracies.<br /><br />Wittman also claims that bureaucracies are not too large and wasteful. Once again, he advances some theoretical possibilities on how bureaucracies might not be wasteful, and simply ignores the empirical realities that refute his arguments.<br /><br />Wittman also pays little attention to ideology. Democracies are susceptible to ideological movements in the electorate.Many democracies have entered into pointless wars and adopted and maintained wasteful welfare states simply because of nationalistic and socialistic ideologies that make no sense at all. Democracy is biased towards the expression of such ideological sentiments (see Brennan and Lomasky in \\"Democracy and Decision\\" available at amazon.com). This is a serious problem with democracy- one that Wittman does not deal with.<br /><br />Also, Wittman passes over the subjects of constitutional and institutional reform only very briefly. These are matters about which voters and interests group members know little. Such ignorance is unlikely to lead to efficiency in reform processes.<br /><br />This book presents a highly misleading view of democracy. For those who are familiar with the Public Choice arguments that he attacks, this book fails utterly. People who want to believe that democracy is simply wonderful will enjoy reading this book. For those who want to take a serious look at democracy, try reading Mancur Olson's Logic of Collective Action or Rise and Decline of Nations, Tullock's Primer in Public Choice, or the Brennan and Lomasky book mentioned above.tless wars and adopted and maintained wasteful welfare states simply because of nationalistic and socialistic ideologies that make no sense at all. Democracy is biased towards the expression of such ideological sentiments (see Brennan and Lomasky in \\"Democracy and Decision\\" available at amazon.com). This is a serious problem with democracy- one that Wittman does not deal with.     Also, Wittman passes over the subjects of constitutional and institutional reform only very briefly. These are matters about which voters and interests group members know little. Such ignorance is unlikely to lead to efficiency in reform processes.    This book presents a highly misleading view of democracy. For those who are familiar with the Public Choice arguments that he attacks, this book fails utterly. People who want to believe that democracy is simply wonderful will enjoy reading this book. For those who want to take a serious look at democracy, try reading Mancur Olson's Logic of Collective Action or Rise and Decline of Nations, Tullock's Primer in Public Choice, or the Brennan and Lomasky book mentioned above.	2003-01-01
US	47914705	R1KJC8C9233WF0	1573921394	617290995	The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money (Great Minds)	Books	3	42	82	N	N	Overrrated	The strengths of this book are in its treatment of time, information, uncertainty, and coordination problems. Keynes investigates many scenarios where miscommunication between groups of individuals leads to coordination failures that lead to a specific type of problem- deficient aggregate demand. We should think of trade cycles as coordination failures, and Keynes raises many such possibilities.<br />The historical significance of this book is a matter of contention. According to the prevailing mythology, Keynes singlehandedly transformed professional opinion concerning the causes of the Great Depression. Prior to Keynes all economists believed that markets self-correct. In reality, several economists developed demand side theories of unemployment before Keynes: Dennis Robertson, JM Clark, M Kalecki , Lautenbach, JA Hobson, JR Commons... Keynes was involved in the development of these ideas, but he is not singularly responsible for either the development or popularization of these ideas. The real founder of modern macroeconomics is the Swedish economist Knut Wicksell, not JM Keynes.<br /><br />There are empirical problems with this book. Keynes argued that decreases in private components of aggregate demand cause cycles. Yet, shifts in the money supply correlate well with depressions. Also, at the close of World War 2, Keynesians predicted another great depression in 1946 due to massive decreases in government spending for armaments. They were clearly wrong, and this is very damaging to Keynes' case. If his 'effective demand' hypothesis is correct, there should have been a depression in 1946. Modern Keynesians, like Paul Krugman, claim that we don't know what happened in 1946, but we really do know. Capitalism worked.<br /><br />Keynes paid almost no attention to data in this book. Instead, he focused, as the title implies, on theory.  His central hypothesis is his 'Principle of Effective Demand. He lays out the main variables involved here on page 29. This principle supposedly refutes Say's law of Market. Keynes claims that total spending can fail to generate full employment. This happens when total savings exceeds total investment. A key supporting argument is that investors will hold cash when interest rates fall. This cash holding supposedly causes demand to fall. The truth is that investors do not hold cash, but instead hold their money in some form of asset in financial markets, even when they are speculating over future bond prices. In the absence of legal restrictions money stays in the financial system and circulates. Depositors did withdraw money from banks- during the banking panics that began in November of 1930. Were these panics an effect of a slowdown that had already existed for more than a year, or the cause of the slowdown itself? Keynes might have the direction of causation backwards.<br />Keynes refers to the 'marginal efficiency of capital' and downplays the critical issue of time preference. Oddly, Keynes does admit that money serves as a link between present and future (p293), and even considers dividing economics between the theory of stationary equilibrium and shifting equilibrium (same page). But Keynes never dealt with time preference all that clearly. In his world, capital markets are driven by 'animal spirits', not expected profits. 'Marginal propensities' drive saving, not inter-temporal consumer choice. The validity of these propositions is questionable.<br /><br />Keynes' irrationalist view of markets stands in contrast to his view of government. Will public officials stabilize the economy via some socialization of investment? He seemed to believe that government officials seek simply to promote the general welfare, rather than to seek political gain by catering to special interests. Does the historical record substantiate this view of government?<br /><br />It should be noted that Keynes does not endorse deficit spending in this book. Deficit spending was proposed by Abba Lerner- and endorsed by Keynes (after initial hesitation). In this book Keynes recommended something even worse than deficit spending- `somewhat comprehensive socialization of investment' (p378). The economics profession drifted away from Keynes during the late 20th century. In fact, modern Keynesian economics bears almost no resemblance to this book. The recent financial crisis has renewed interest in The General Theory, but it is this resurgence warranted? We should consider the possibility that the housing boom was driven primarily by central bank policies, not by animal spirits. This book has its place in history, but it is possibly the most overrated economics book ever written.). In this book Keynes recommended something even worse than deficit spending- `somewhat comprehensive socialization of investment' (p378). The economics profession drifted away from Keynes during the late 20th century. In fact, modern Keynesian economics bears almost no resemblance to this book. The recent financial crisis has renewed interest in The General Theory, but it is this resurgence warranted? We should consider the possibility that the housing boom was driven primarily by central bank policies, not by animal spirits. This book has its place in history, but it is possibly the most overrated economics book ever written.	2002-09-22
US	47914705	R4M06C5EV7TFV	0521405998	738559508	Governing the Commons: The Evolution of Institutions for Collective Action (Political Economy of Institutions and Decisions)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	conventional theory applied to odd cases	Ostroms' book covers a variety of cases where allocational difficulties arise. She employs sound economic reasoning in analyzing a number of cases where ordinary property rights enforcment is difficult. This book illustrates how vital institutional arrangements are in managing natural resources. Self-described environmentalists should read this book to see how many of the problems that concern them can actually get solved. The history in this book is made interesting through the application of economic concepts. This is not light reading, but it surely is interesting- for serious readers.	2002-05-21
US	47914705	R2YCIANQU33UHN	0913966649	206489427	What Should Economists Do?	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Big ideas in a little book	What Should Economists Do is a little book with some big ideas. It deals with many complicated subjects. It examines the relation of economics to other academic disciplines. It examines what economists can learn from and teach to other academics. It examines the scientific method in economics. It examines the use of a-priori axioms and the empirical testing of hypotheses. It examines subjectivism in economics. It examines human nature. It looks at the human desire for self-improvement. It delves into political economy. It examines Public Choice theory and the conflict between public financed education and academic freedom. Above all it examines the nature of human choice and argues against deterministic notions of \\"scientific choice\\" that preclude real choice.<br /><br />What Should Economists do makes you think critically about modern Neoclassical economics. If choice is fully defined by utility functions, can there be real choice? How can the mathematical approach to social theory that economists favor be reconciled with the analysis of real people and real institutions?  What can different disciplines learn from each other? This book is one of Buchanan's' best works. It is one of his most readable too. It should be read, not only by economists, but by anyone who is interested in social theory.	2002-03-31
US	47914705	R2YIRJ27UA74WX	0226041166	663088338	The Economics of Discrimination (Economic Research Studies)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Costs are Pervasive	Milton Friedman has always insisted that there is no such thing as a free lunch. If Becker proves anything with this book, it is that he was a good student of Friedman's. The basic lesson of this book is that every choice we make has a cost. The employer who decides to discriminate against prospective employees who are more productive, but the `wrong race' end up paying higher real wages and earn less profits. The merchant who turns business away because of race loses revenue and profits.<br /><br />The analysis of this book is far more complicated than what I have indicated, but the complexity of this book is not its strength. Becker is possible the worst of those economists who think that they make a positive contribution by \\"formalizing\\" common sense into a complex math model. You really do not need to know calculus to understand the basic logic behind substitution and income effects. For that matter, you do not need to know much about substitution and income effects to understand the common sense of opportunity cost thinking.<br /><br />While the presentation of this book is overkill, Becker still deserves credit for taking on a controversial subject. The idea that markets tend to discourage racism is not very popular among academics now, and it was probably even less popular among us in 1971. The Economics of Discrimination deserves three stars for content, but five stars for intellectual courage.	2001-11-30
US	47914705	R2Q3VIGFQMNGN6	0945466293	94505800	Reassessing the Presidency : The Rise of the Executive State and the Decline of Freedom	Books	3	3	8	N	N	A different perspective	Reassessing the Presidency prompts readers to re-think the popular views of American presidents. It is iconoclastic towards FDR, Wilson, Teddy R, and Lincoln. It also focuses much needed attention on lesser-known Presidents like Van Buren. Its best parts are in the middle. The statistical analysis in the 1st chapter is simplistic and the \\"impossibility\\" chapter near the end overstates its case. Otherwise, it is an informative and entertaining read.	2001-07-12
US	47914705	R3RBFB88YRJDYH	0195066545	532843093	The Predatory Society: Deception in the American Marketplace	Books	2	10	22	N	N	misguided, but informative	&quot;The Predatory Society&quot; is quite entertaining. Blumberg clearly wants to get everyone mad about Capitalism, but he is so silly about doing it that he actually does the reverse. Most of the book centers on the diffuse nature of knowledge in society. Given extreme specialization and the costs of monitoring people that you trade with, there are always opportunities for people to cheat each other. Of course, Blumberg does not quite see things that way. To him, the profit motive makes people corrupt and under socialism people are nice to each other. Bumberg avoids the more dogmatic assertions that simple-minded Marxists make about overthrowing Capitalism, but he is still absurdly naïve about government. To him, advertising, ala Capitalism, has corrupted American Politics (as if American Politics was once pure as the wind-driven snow). Also, in Communist China Socialism breeds a wonderful sense of community- not the repression, mass murder and starvation that it is known for. All we need to do is to elect &quot;progressive&quot; politicians and trust them. Blumberg acknowledges that businesses have some incentive to be honest- to maintain their reputations. But he discounts this factor without providing any real statistical evidence to support this. Blumberg also acknowledges the productive nature of Capitalism, but he fails to acknowledge the extreme waste, fraud, and abuse in the public sector. Blumberg wants us all to patronize consumer cooperatives, but fails to recognize that the same problems with monitoring the operation of these concerns exist with these organizations as well. Workers at coops might not lie to customers as much, but they can slack of, steal, and cheat in other ways. The absence of a profit motive makes these problems worse than under for profit enterprise. Blumberg blames a lot on Capitalism. Recessions and the Depression are all the fault of Capitalism- the Federal Reserve is completely innocent in these matters despite its position in financial markets. Capitalism also alienates us from our true moral selves. The fact of the matter is that Capitalism is imperfect, but so is government. The same informational asymmetries that lead to fraud and waste in markets lead to (arguably greater) fraud and waste in government- at least I see the stores I shop at, who knows what those bureaucrats in DC do with my money. In short, Blumberg is an ideologue. He hates markets and loves government. He harps on market imperfections, some large, others small, a few imaginary, to try to justify the intrusive regulatory/welfare state that he worships. He trivializes government imperfections- that gave us disasters like Tuskegee, Vietnam, WWI, Japanese-American interment camps, Social Security (a Ponzi Scheme like no other) the Philippine-American War, Prohibition (Alcohol then, and MJ now), The Depression (courtesy of the Fed), and our vast array of Pork Barrel spending programs. But, to an ideologue like Blumberg there is no reason to bring up all the little problems with government that have come along through the years- what he needs to do is to demagogue issues of consumer fraud. Fortunately, Blumberg is so brazen in his biases that it is obvious that he is not a serious or thoughtful critic of markets. His book is an interesting and informative read- one that will make many consumers more alert to some of the tricks and gimmicks that await us all in markets. However, his desire for a more civil and communitarian society through big government is absurd. Read his book to hone your shopping skills, but for social theory and philosophy try reading F.A. Hayek, L. Mises, or Ayn Rand.financial markets. Capitalism also alienates us from our true moral selves. The fact of the matter is that Capitalism is imperfect, but so is government. The same informational asymmetries that lead to fraud and waste in markets lead to (arguably greater) fraud and waste in government- at least I see the stores I shop at, who knows what those bureaucrats in DC do with my money. In short, Blumberg is an ideologue. He hates markets and loves government. He harps on market imperfections, some large, others small, a few imaginary, to try to justify the intrusive regulatory/welfare state that he worships. He trivializes government imperfections- that gave us disasters like Tuskegee, Vietnam, WWI, Japanese-American interment camps, Social Security (a Ponzi Scheme like no other) the Philippine-American War, Prohibition (Alcohol then, and MJ now), The Depression (courtesy of the Fed), and our vast array of Pork Barrel spending programs. But, to an ideologue like Blumberg there is no reason to bring up all the little problems with government that have come along through the years- what he needs to do is to demagogue issues of consumer fraud. Fortunately, Blumberg is so brazen in his biases that it is obvious that he is not a serious or thoughtful critic of markets. His book is an interesting and informative read- one that will make many consumers more alert to some of the tricks and gimmicks that await us all in markets. However, his desire for a more civil and communitarian society through big government is absurd. Read his book to hone your shopping skills, but for social theory and philosophy try reading F.A. Hayek, L. Mises, or Ayn Rand.	2001-04-30
US	47914705	R3JAE1UV7N7EHP	0300044666	382949567	Nazi Economics: Ideology, Theory, and Policy	Books	4	13	16	N	N	disturbing insights	Barkai's book explores an aspect of Nazism that seldom gets serious attention. It is often the case that people assume that Hitler was a supporter of capitalism because he opposed communism and attacked the USSR. Barkai proves that Hitler was an extreme interventionist. Barkai demonstrates that Hitler tolerated private property only so long as private owners used &quot;their&quot; property in ways that served the common good, as defined by Hitler. He shows how Hitler reserved and frequently exercised unlimited power to regulate enterprise and personal behavior in Germany. Barkai also demonstrates the close similarity between the thinking of Nazi economists and the ideas of the founder of demand side economics, John Maynard Keynes. This book is disturbing because it shows a similarity in both economic policies and thinking between western social democracies and one of the two most horrible dictatorships ever. It also renders the notion of Hitler as a pro- free market capitalist absurd. I recommend this book to both Historians and Economists, though I suspect that many will find that it makes comparisons that hit too close to home for comfort.	2001-03-03
US	47914705	RJKEP9WWXCOP0	0415079829	181138875	Time and Money: The Macroeconomics of Capital Structure (Routledge Foundations of the Market Economy)	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Worth the Time-Too much Money	\\"Time and Money\\" combines a new graphical depiction of<br />competing theories of unemployment and trade cycles with standard<br />Subjectivist arguments in this area. The authors'\\"loose joint\\" theory<br />of trade cycles is an extension of arguments made by Austrian<br />economists Ludwig Von Mises and Friedrich Von Hayek. Garrison also<br />critiques the ideas Keynesians and Monetarists. One of the key<br />strengths of the graphics in this book is that it focuses attention on<br />under appreciated elements of subjectivist-Austrian trade cycle<br />theory. These graphs clarify the effects that interest rates have on<br />household decisions on saving and consumption. Also, the graphs<br />facilitate comparisons between different schools of thought. This book<br />has little that is really new in the Subjectivist theory of the trade<br />cycle and its associated critiques of competing theories in this<br />area. By in large, this book organizes material from other books and<br />articles, many of which are by Garrison.<br /><br />The primary value of this book is in its organization and presentation of<br />this alternative explanation of the trade cycle and unemployment. This<br />book is important because it facilitates the dissemination of a viable<br />explanation of important economic phenomena. The need for this<br />dissemination is both internal and external to the Subjectivist<br />school. Many members of the Subjectivist school promote this theory<br />without fully understanding it. Those outside of the school tend to<br />ignore this theory completely. These two facts are closely<br />related. Clear representation of these ideas is an essential part of<br />the effort on the part of Subjectivists to regain their former place<br />among the mainstream of the economics profession. By doing this in his<br />book, Garrison has made great progress in reducing the costs of<br />learning about Subjectivist Capital/Trade Cycle theory. A lower money<br />price for this book would extend this process further.	2000-12-03
US	47914705	R3T7F967P222T1	0841907773	354916950	Mathematics for Innumerate Economists	Books	3	8	8	N	N	useful, but basic	Kennedy's book is a great place to sart for anyone who is just starting to learn the mathematical techniques used in contemporary economics. If you are an undergraduate, this book will teach you most of what you need to know. If you are a graduate student, it will only get you started. It explains calculus in a way that is easy to understand. When I say that it explains calculus, I mean that it explains calculus so that you understand what it means, not just how to do it. The only shortcommings of this book are that it spends too much time doing Keynesian algebra and it ignores linear algebra comletely.	2000-09-23
US	47914705	RB64KL4UILNZE	0865972230	762146858	Cost and Choice (Collected Works of James M. Buchanan)	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Clarity and Brevity	Cost and Choice is a short, easy, and informative read on opportunity cost. Some of the classical economists hinted at the idea of opportunity cost. Opportunity cost thinking can be seen in the work of Ricardo and Bastiat. Yet the labor cost doctrine held its sway over economic thinking until Carl Menger demolished it. Menger's student Weiser developed the idea of alternative costs, but how did this idea get to England?<br /><br />Buchanan describes the development of the `London tradition' at the LSE. Thirlby, Coase, Hayek, and Robbins were all involved in developing the modern opportunity cost doctrine. Buchanan also inquires into the idea of social costs and public choice. The idea of opportunity cost is, of course, at the center of the socialist calculation debate. The opportunity cost concept raises a number of issues as far as the Coase theorem and public goods theory are concerned. Who chooses over what alternatives in the public sector?<br /><br />Cost and Choice is a great book to use in undergraduate microeconomics. Some grad students should read it too: especially those who majored in engineering or one of the physical sciences as undergrads. It is also a worthwhile read for the educated public.	2000-09-09
US	47914705	R3SOD2E7B8I415	0070468141	625248871	Economics	Books	1	16	25	N	N	Dinosaurs Live!	This is one of the worst entry-level that I have ever seen. It is badly  organized. The material on Macroeconomics precedes the material on  Microeconomics. It is out of date. Much of the content of this book  consists of &quot;Old Keynesian&quot; economics of the 1950's that nobody-  not even today's &quot;New Keynesians&quot;- believes in anymore. The  authors briefly mention a few of the major changes in economic theory over  the past 30 years, but do a poor job of explaining these new and dominant  concepts. It is badly written. I have heard many students complain that it  is a boring read, and that much of it is difficult to understand. It is  unsophisticated and superficial. Its' muddled discussions lack depth, and  fail to explore the subtleties of the faulty concepts it presents (this is  the best things about this book). In short, this text is an embarrassment  to the economics profession. The authors have failed to amend the content  of their text in response to advances in economic theorizing, and continue  to organize their text in accordance with the faulty and discredited  Keynesian theories of the 1950's. If you must read this for a class,  remember that its' content is as bad its' presentation.	2000-09-09
US	47914705	R2IP5SPNF3F6C7	0945466072	841871637	Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth	Books	5	37	37	N	N	The Challenge to All Socialists	Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth sent shockwaves though the academic world when it appeared in 1920. Following World War One many scholars were fascinated with the newly formed Soviet Union. Would the USSR live up to the romantic expectations of Marxists? Could some other form of socialism work better? Was capitalism doomed? Ludwig von Mises answered these questions with a resounding no.<br /><br />Mises identifies THE critical problem in socialist economics- the lack of a means for allocating  capital goods. Once the state owns the means of production markets for  capital goods disappear. Market prices for capital goods emerge through  competitive biding as entrepreneurs estimate the values of different  capital goods. If we abandon markets, central planners must still choose  between alternative capital goods, but they will not have market prices to  guide them. Since all value is in use and is subjective, central planners  face an impossible task when they try to ascertain relative values for  capital goods. Mises proves that in a dynamic, changing world of subjective  value and complex productive processes, markets are an indispensable means  of organizing production.<br /><br />Mises described the calculation problem more fully in his book, Socialism, and Economic and Sociological Analysis. In my own experience, reading the 1920 essay is not enough to understand the full calculation argument. Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth is, however, and excellent starting place for understanding the problems of socialism. Every socialist should read this essay, along with the more complete version of the calculation critique in \\"Socialism\\", and with Hayek's books \\"Individualism and Economic Order\\" and \\"The Road to Serfdom\\".	2000-09-08
US	47914705	R28SHHXR399Z84	0521637651	400366877	Austrian Economics in America: The Migration of a Tradition (Historical Perspectives on Modern Economics)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Past Events, Current Trends	The author of this book does an excellent job of explaining the  development of Austrian economics in the US. Vaughn illustrates the  importance of the Calculation and Capital debates, both in the development  of the Austrian paradigm and in the decline of its reputation during the  1930's. Her views on Mises, Kirzner and Rothbard are bound to cause  controversy, but she develops her critiques carefully. Vaughn explains  Hayek's contributions clearly, and demonstrates the importance of his work  on psychology and social theory to the Austrian paradigm. Vaughn also  brings her readers up to date by discussing many of the most recent  developments in Austrian economics. However, the most important  contribution of this book is in her discussions of lesser-known Austrians.  Vaughn gives Weiser the credit that he deserves for developing the concept  of opportunity cost and for raising the issue of calculation under  socialism. Vaughn also explores the ideas of one of the least understood  and most mysterious figures in Austrian economics- Ludwig Lachmann.  Vaughn's arguments against equilibrium theorizing and for process  orientated paradigms are unlikely to bring about an immediate revolution in  economic science, but her case is compelling.	2000-09-08
US	47914705	RBIJ7KX8U5JHM	0195073401	680945686	Microeconomic Theory	Books	1	16	37	N	N	Monumental Blunder	&quot;Microeconomic Theory&quot; is encyclopedic in its treatment of  modern price theory. Consequently, It stands as a towering monument to  everything that is wrong with modern microeconomics. Virtually, every topic  in this book centers around equilibrium concepts that economists borrowed  from Newtonian mechanics over a century ago. Institutions matter little in  this view of the world, and processes virtually disappear. This text also  falls short in explaining the importance of subjectivity, particularly in  costs. This text focuses heavily on market failures, but pays little  attention to the literature on transactions costs. The authors have little  to say about government failure, aside from their highly technical and  poorly explained presentation of the Arrow Impossibility Theorem. on the   The Authors do include a considerable amount of game theory, but they do  little to explain game theoretic concepts. While their failure to explain  usefull game theoretic concepts is unfortunate, the lack of verbal  explanation in this book is its greatest strength. The fewer who understand  this brand of &quot;economics&quot; the better. If you absolutely must read  this for a class, try to innoculate yourself by reading some articles by  Demsetz, Hayek, and Buchannan first.	2000-09-08
