US	47950934	R23CMWBC65V0DN	0743275071	473383012	Pirate (Alexander Hawke, Book 3)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Not just the heir to Ludlum, but Cussler as well...	As a BIG fan of well-plotted spy/adventure yarns, I have been frantically searching for someone, ANYONE who could fill the HUGE shoes left by Robert Ludlum after his death.  Without a doubt, Ted Bell IS the man to do it.  However as a reviewer also mentioned, he is too unique in his own right to assume somone elses spot.  He has created his own place in the world adventure/fiction, and he has done it quickly and he has done it very well.<br /><br />Just a few minutes of reading any of Bell's 3 novels and you can sense he just writes differently than what you normally find in this particular genre.  There is almost a harmony to how the sentences flow.  All I can say is in this case, Different isn't just good, it's GREAT.<br /><br />With Pirate, we see Alexander Hawke on his most daring mission yet.  A crazed decendant of Napoleon has a plan to unite China and France together against virtually any and all nations in order to pull off a frightening scenario that includes the Middle East and the one thing they produce more of than almost any other place on earth: Oil.  At first I thought that nobody in France or China could be stupid enough to pull off such an insane stunt, but trust me as you read Pirate, you will be utterly shocked at not how realistic it all is, but just how downright PLAUSIBLE it is.  Shockingly realistic.<br /><br />Do yourself an immense favor and give Ted Bell a shot.  You will NOT be disappointed.  Yeah, I know I've heard that one before and it certainly SEEMS like an overused cliche, but in this particular case, I simply cannot endorse this guy enough.  But if I could also bend your eye for just a few moments longer, if you take my advice, begin with 'Hawke' and then move on to 'Assassin' before reading 'Pirate'.  NOT because you must read them in order, they are ALL excellent, but they simply get BETTER.  I cannot WAIT for Alex Hawke's next outing.  Yes, the book is THAT good.	2005-10-13
US	47950934	R1VTA2CF870GO	0345451120	142978299	Straken (High Druid of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	High Fantasy done RIGHT.  Nice ending to great series.	Do I agree with some of the reviewers who say that Straken and indeed much of this latest series isn't as original as it used to be?  Yeah, I would say that.  However, with that aside, Terry Brooks HAS managed to inject as much originality into a series that has been ongoing since 1977 as is possible.  As usual, I still find myself as eager now for his next novel as I was in High School waiting for The Wishsong to come out.  I am as many are, looking forward to a break from Shannara to see what else is bouncing around in his ingeniously creative mind.  I have hear LOTS of rumors, but after interviewing him for myself, I think that I will keep some of it quiet to allow the surprise to be that much bigger and enjoyable.<br /><br />Back to the book, though.  Straken has a wonderful finality to it which was lacking with the end of Morgawr a few years back.  The whole idea of being trapped INSIDE the Forbidding is easily one of, if not THE most creative aspect of almost all the Shannara stories since perhaps when Brooks introduced us to it originally back with Elfstones.  Knowing what to do and then being ABLE to pull it off are never quite the same with any novel set in the world of Shannara.  As is also the case with Straken.  Pen Ohmsford in his attempts to help rescue his aunt, the former Ilse Witch, banned to the Forbidding by the use of dark magic runs into many, MANY roadblocks along the way...the least of which includes evil menions of the false Ard Rhys trying to capture and kill him...watching friends die...and finding love.  Once Pen secures what he needs in order to help his aunt, he runs into you guessed it: even more problems.  That's okay.  Never fear, the outcome is never really in doubt.  The journey to find the resolution to this particular problem isn't just fun, but for me, it seemed more loaded with action and fantasy-charged testosterone than I have read from Brooks in a long time.  We get to see what a SEAL team would be like Shannara-style, and it was a real high point in the entire series.  You can definitely see additional depth to the writing skills of Mr. Brooks and fantastic character development as he continues his love of penning great stories.<br /><br />One last thought: I am a life-long fan of Terry Brooks.  He has earned my loyalty by writing great stuff again and again.  Moreover, after meeting him personally, he is easily the most down-to-earth kind and thoughtful author I have ever met.  At a book signing, it doesn't matter HOW many people are in line behind you, he treats each person as though they are the ONLY person there and doesn't put a limit to how many questions you can ask...even if it means he'll be there into the wee hours.  He certainly hasn't forgotten where he came from and WHY he is successful in the first place: his READERS.  You can say what you want about the guy, but I will ALWAYS be first in line to buy his books just as long as he continues to write them.  He always makes me feel as though my money was well spent...and when it comes down to it, isn't that all that matters?it was a real high point in the entire series.  You can definitely see additional depth to the writing skills of Mr. Brooks and fantastic character development as he continues his love of penning great stories.   <br /> <br />One last thought: I am a life-long fan of Terry Brooks.  He has earned my loyalty by writing great stuff again and again.  Moreover, after meeting him personally, he is easily the most down-to-earth kind and thoughtful author I have ever met.  At a book signing, it doesn't matter HOW many people are in line behind you, he treats each person as though they are the ONLY person there and doesn't put a limit to how many questions you can ask...even if it means he'll be there into the wee hours.  He certainly hasn't forgotten where he came from and WHY he is successful in the first place: his READERS.  You can say what you want about the guy, but I will ALWAYS be first in line to buy his books just as long as he continues to write them.  He always makes me feel as though my money was well spent...and when it comes down to it, isn't that all that matters?	2005-10-12
US	47950934	RUSIQDHAA034G	0399152717	193896016	Polar Shift (NUMA Files)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Formula novel that still rings true...	Will there be any plot-twist that will stun you in the pages of this latest Cussler/Kemprecos tale featuring Kurt Austin?  Nope.  Did I enjoy it just as much anyway?  Yup.  The storyline follows the tried and true Cussler formula that was earlier virtually perfected long ago with the Dirk Pitt novels: begin the story long ago with an amazing event, and somehow manage to tie it together with events of today.  Sure 'nuff, this latest tale does exactly that, and since they followed everything tried and true, I just knew I was in for a fun ride.<br /><br />Now since I am NOT any kind of scientist or mathemetician, the explanations about the possibility of an actual shift in the magnetic poles of the planet certainly seemed plausible to me.  If of course you understand that kind of science, well you may find some kind of glaring error, but I happily did not.  Instead I found the science behind Polar Shift to be pretty convincing.<br /><br />Did a WWII era scientist actually discover a way to shift the Poles using electromagnetic energy (at least I think that is what they used...)?  He certainly seemed genuine to the military minds of Russia and Germany that they wanted him to develop a weapon for themselves.  A daring escape saves Lazlo Kovacs life and before long, he finds himself in America and hopefully all his theorums lost for good, too dangerous to be left in the hands of the governments of ANY country.  Unfortunately a few unsavory people come across these long lost theories and begin to run experiments which cause havoc on weather patterns and possible irreversible catastrophic damage to the earth.  They also mistakenly believe that they can reverse the damage once it begins, but nobody apparently knows this for certain.  The plans and the backstory as to why this corporation embarks on such a horrible plan are also quite interesting to the storyline.  Lets just say if you dislike the so-called *Elites* in the world, you actually may root for the bad guys -- at least for part of the novel.<br /><br />Anyway, the grand daughter of Lazlo Kovacs unknowingly is a pawn in the grand scheme of the featured bad guys in 'Polar Shift'.  Does she know the antidote to the Theorums developed by Kovacs?  If she does, she is completely unaware of them.  Inject an additional side story involving the possible cloning of extinct Wooly Mammoths and you've got a novel worthy of Clive Cussler.  I believe that Clive only comes up with the storylines for these books and that Paul Kemprecos actually writes the stories, and whether or not he actually does, the end results are almost always equal to most of the Dirk Pitt tales of the past 12 years or so...heck, Dirk actually makes an appearance in this book by the way.  In short, if you have enjoyed the previous NUMA novels featuring Kurt Austin, add this one to your collection and you won't be disappointed.- at least for part of the novel. <br /> <br />Anyway, the grand daughter of Lazlo Kovacs unknowingly is a pawn in the grand scheme of the featured bad guys in 'Polar Shift'.  Does she know the antidote to the Theorums developed by Kovacs?  If she does, she is completely unaware of them.  Inject an additional side story involving the possible cloning of extinct Wooly Mammoths and you've got a novel worthy of Clive Cussler.  I believe that Clive only comes up with the storylines for these books and that Paul Kemprecos actually writes the stories, and whether or not he actually does, the end results are almost always equal to most of the Dirk Pitt tales of the past 12 years or so...heck, Dirk actually makes an appearance in this book by the way.  In short, if you have enjoyed the previous NUMA novels featuring Kurt Austin, add this one to your collection and you won't be disappointed.	2005-09-02
US	47950934	R2GTZVXT9K0J11	0765311046	153276885	Tyrannosaur Canyon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fun & informative adventure yarn...4.5 stars	Like many who have discovered Douglas Preston via his co-writing partner of the past decade, Lincoln Child, Douglas has done his best to pen some novels by himself (as has Child) and although both authors are better together than alone, each have produced some very entertaining adventure tales...and Tyrannosaur Canyon is no exception.<br /><br />What was discovered in the desert that is worth killing for?  I don't think I am surprising anyone who has read any of the reviews that the discovery is the virtually intact remains of a full T-Rex -- NOT just a skeleton, but the whole remains.  If true, this would be tantamount to one of, if not THE greatest archaeological find in history.  Many have noted that the story (as a whole) is not all that plausible, but WHO CARES??  Certainly Preston & Child have set the bar at realistic scientific storylines, but c'mon!  This is a fun story well told.  For those folks who are bothered by the tiniest of factual errors or ANYTHING that may disturb the validity of the science of any given fictional story, well you just may find an item (or two) that may ruffle your feathers, but if you can put that behind you BEFORE you begin, well then you are in store for a grand adventure.<br /><br />I can say without hesitation of all the solo novels produced by either Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, Tyrannosaur Canyon is my personal favorite (although Death Match is a close 2nd...).  Factual errors aside, I found myself totally absorbed by the plot, the characters and even the attention to the small things such as an Assassin who has a side job hosting an internet site which specializes in hooking up Prison Inmates with the odd women who find them irresistable.  Once again, suspend your belief before beginning this book and once inside you will have an amazing time.<br /><br />Kudos to Mr. Preston for producing another winner I can enjoy while awaiting the latest tale written with Mr. Child (by the way, 'Dance of Death' is one of their all-time best).  Set aside a weekend where you can devote some time to reading this adventure tale and before long you will be having an adventure all your own.eir all-time best).  Set aside a weekend where you can devote some time to reading this adventure tale and before long you will be having an adventure all your own.	2005-08-25
US	47950934	R2DBHWBGFZJ8BP	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Like it or hate it, this is GREAT literature...	I am rather surprised at the seemingly large number of reviewers who are giving the Half-Blood Prince anything less than a full 5 stars.  I have long believed that we as a society sell our children short, way short.  I really have no idea why, either.  Certainly the Order of the Phoenix and this installment are darker and written more on the level of an adult rather than a 12 year old, but both of my children who are quite young have both picked Phoenix as their favorite novel thus far (this was before reading Prince).  Why do we constantly under-estimate children so much that we fail to realize they are way more perceptive than we understand?  The same is true for the half-witted Ultra-Conservative's who believe that reading Harry Potter will endanger our children into believing that witchcraft is real enough that one day they will be jumping off cliffs with a broom, crashing and then wondering why it did not work.  I have yet to meet up with a single child who is old enough to read and comprehend these books that CANNOT discern between fantasy and reality.  Whatever can get our children to read in the quantities that Harry Potter has managed MUST be good.<br /><br />Back to the story.  I heard recently that Mrs. Rowling has had the first chapter to Half-Blood floating around her head for going on near 13 years.  It's a good chapter which helps us to better understand the Uproar over Voldemort and his Return and how it has begun to affect the Muggles.  Too many people have been loading their reviews with spoilers (which without *warning* are uncalled for and totally tasteless) and I refuse to mess with that.  Suffice it to say that I have enjoyed literally every second I have spent in Harry's World.  As it is I have been enormously stubborn in getting INTO that world from the very beginning because I am an adult and I simply do NOT read children's novels (other than to my kids).  I can't say exactly why I chose to delve into these books, but I have been VERY happy I did so.<br /><br />Many have picked on Harry in the last book because of how he complained too much -- but if one can properly suspend your disbelief in order to accept a fantasy world where Wizards and Witches live side-by-side, is it SO hard to imagine a 15 year old boy who is facing the pressures of life the way Harry has done and done so well?  I know if NO teenager that DOESN'T complain...just imagine the moaning and complaining you could hear if they experienced the pressure of life as Harry is living it?  'Nuff said.  Harry IS growing up and with the Half-Blood Prince we see him maturing even more and slowly but surely accepting his role as the Chosen One.  He is definitely growing up as he discovers that his destiny, although not written yet, is unavoidably connected with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.  A showdown is definitely in the works, and I am incredibly anxious to see just how the series will wrap up in volume 7, due sometime just past the end of my patience...<br /><br />While Dumbledore was remarkably absent from a great deal of Phoenix, he returns in fine form here in Prince and his connection with Harry as well as the amazingly detailed back-story regarding Tom Riddle and his eventual down-turn into Lord Voldemort was absolutely facinating.  I could tell you a LOT that would make you WANT to read this story more than you probably already do, but I don't wish to spoil any of it for you.  There ARE some pretty big surprises here and there and while I never really came close to crying at the *Death* everyone seems to be referring to, it DID hit me quite a bit more than the loss of Sirius Black (to be honest, I am still not all that convinced he is gone forever anyway...).  For those who say this book is NOT for children, I will agree -- only to an extent.  I believe if the child is old enough to read and really comprehend this series, Half-Blood Prince is NOT too graphic or dark for them...however if you are a parent who will be reading this to a childunder the age of 7 or so, you may wish to pre-read the chapters in advance so you can know when and where to do some careful editing.  You'll know when and where when you get there.  All in all this is another triumph for the fans of this amazingly creative stories of Harry and his life at Hogwarts and the world as a whole re-imagined in a way nobody but J.K. Rowling could tell it.  Highly recommended.a child under the age of 7 or so, you may wish to pre-read the chapters in advance so you can know when and where to do some careful editing.  You'll know when and where when you get there.  All in all this is another triumph for the fans of this amazingly creative stories of Harry and his life at Hogwarts and the world as a whole re-imagined in a way nobody but J.K. Rowling could tell it.  Highly recommended.	2005-07-18
US	47950934	ROERD7G7TH8BP	0446576972	670656489	Dance of Death	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another home run for this incredible writing duo	Face it: Douglas Preston & Lincoln Child writing at their worst are still better than most authors when they write at their best.  Why is this?  Who cares, its just a simple fact of life and I consider myself VERY fortunate that I have discovered them.  I have been a fan of theirs since just after they released 'Relic' the first novel they collaborated on (still my personal favorite, too).<br /><br />'Dance of Death' actually is book 2 in a series which began with 'Brimstone'.  At the end of that book, Special Agent Pendergast is captured, bound and left for dead behind a brick wall.  A few months later, Lieutenant Vincent D'Agosta is convinced Pendergast is dead and will not be coming back.  He suddenly receives a message seemingly sent from beyond the grave which places an investigation at his feet with precious few clues, but promises some very horrific crimes.  Agent Pendergasts' estranged and quite insane brother, Diogenes is planning on committing the Perfect Crime.  It really was no surprise that Aloysius Pendergast wasn't really dead, but how he managed to escape DID come as an interesting wrinkle to this tale.  The pure anger that Diogenes has towards Aloysius borders on madness.  Just exactly WHY does he hate his brother so much is something you wonder about for quite some time since Preston & Child feel we need to wonder for a long time.  The fact of the matter is that this so-called Perfect Crime revolves around killing people close to his brother.  Aloysius admittedly does not have many friends, but those who have been close to him are now targets by a criminal who has had decades to plan a vile series of murders all to torment his brother.<br /><br />I personally found several of these crimes to be quite original, and yet the WAY they are performed is just as important as the actual crimes themselves.  Before long, Diogenes has made it clear that during the many years he has had to plan this convoluted insanely odd crime, he has also planned an equally, virtually fool-proof scheme to pin it all on his hated brother.  So not only is Agent Pendergast forced to attempt to stop his brother, but now he must do it as the Prime Suspect.  He enlists Detective D'Agosta in his attempt to stop his brother, and before long both of them are fugitives from the law working to stop someone who the world believes has been dead for a very long time.<br /><br />The plotting of 'Dance of Death' is very well done, and easily my favorite novel of theirs since 'The Cabinet of Curiosities'.  If you wondered about the quirky ending to 'Brimstone' you need to know the story doesn't end there...in fact, it doesn't even end at the conclusion to 'Dance of Death' which is slightly upsetting, but will force me to work up quite an appetite for the next installment by this tremendously talented writing partnership.  If you have read any of their books in the past and enjoyed them and you somehow have managed not to read anything else, you are in for a very BIG treat indeed.  A great story well told and full of twists and turns and above all, makes you thirst for more.<br /><br />Highly recommended.fool-proof scheme to pin it all on his hated brother.  So not only is Agent Pendergast forced to attempt to stop his brother, but now he must do it as the Prime Suspect.  He enlists Detective D'Agosta in his attempt to stop his brother, and before long both of them are fugitives from the law working to stop someone who the world believes has been dead for a very long time.      The plotting of 'Dance of Death' is very well done, and easily my favorite novel of theirs since 'The Cabinet of Curiosities'.  If you wondered about the quirky ending to 'Brimstone' you need to know the story doesn't end there...in fact, it doesn't even end at the conclusion to 'Dance of Death' which is slightly upsetting, but will force me to work up quite an appetite for the next installment by this tremendously talented writing partnership.  If you have read any of their books in the past and enjoyed them and you somehow have managed not to read anything else, you are in for a very BIG treat indeed.  A great story well told and full of twists and turns and above all, makes you thirst for more.      Highly recommended.	2005-07-07
US	47950934	R1AZKPLC1YTMZK	076530788X	110180879	Dangerous Ground	Books	3	21	23	N	N	I WANTED to like it more...3.5 stars	I am a BIG fan of Larry Bond and submarine thrillers in particular, but as I began Dangerous Ground, I guess I set my expectations a bit too high.  Bond's previous novels have been high octane entertainment with great stories which moved at the speed of a Tomahawk Missle -- but unfortunately, this story moves like a missle about to be disassembled.  The storyline is good enough, and the technical detail is plenty, but unfortunately the action is too little and just not enough to keep this book afloat.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong...Bond has clearly done his homework.  As the story unfolds, you can just TELL he has spent a great deal of time making certain that this story was told from a standpoint of someone who was entering the world of the submariner from the outside.  Dangrous Ground sets the stage for the main character, Jerry Mitchell, a former rising star in the ranks of Naval Pilots, who becomes grounded after an unfortunate aircraft accident (not his fault) and uses his Uncle's political weight to gain access to the Navies Sub force.  Immediately he is considered unfit by many under his command because of how his uncle helped his career along.  One Chief Petty Officer under him makes it his prime goal to make Mitchell's life as miserable as is humanly possible.  Jerry works overtime to earn the respect of his crew and in the process, learns quite a lot about himself as well.<br /><br />The USSN Memphis, a sub clearly past her prime and in desperate need of being turned into scrap, is sent on a mission into Russian waters to collect top secret information.  This is where I had my biggest problem with the storyline.  I know from personal experience that the Government can make some really harsh and stupid decisions -- but what I simply cannot accept is a vision of the US Navy knowingly sending an aging and vastly inferior submarine into an incredibly dangerous situation complete with the intention of expecting it to fail.  I find it absolutely impossible in this day to believe no matter HOW mis-guided some military officers are, that they would send our men almost to their certain deaths for the flimsy reasons we discover later on.  Anyway, on with the review: We discover soon enough along the way that the government has virtually written the entire mission off and fully expects it to fail...something that Jerry Mitchell and the Memphis skipper, Lowell Hardy intend to avoid.  Once again, the technical detail is very thorough.  You receive everything but a guided tour of a real nuclear submarine while reading Dangerous Ground.  What you unfortunately do NOT get, is a lot of entertainment along the way.  Certainly the story was interesting enough, but just barely enough to maintain my attention over the course of the two weeks I spent reading.  One thing you CAN look forward to is the eventual arrival of the Memphis to Russian waters to carry out their nearly impossible job.  The last quarter of the book is text-book edge-of-your-seat action.  My only gripe is that in order to get TO that action, you must meander through three-quarters of semi-enjoyable submarine jargon-filled storyline.  If the majority of this book represents what it is actually like on board a United States Submarine (which I believe it does), I will be forever thankful I chose a different career path than the military...and the Navy in particular.<br /><br />In short, I found that I CAN recommend this story, but only to those hard-core submarine thriller readers like myself who find it difficult to wait in between books by Michael DiMercurio and Joe Buff.  Other than that, I found the story quite lacking when compared with the previous novels of Larry Bond, all of which I can endorse quite happily.ieve no matter HOW mis-guided some military officers are, that they would send our men almost to their certain deaths for the flimsy reasons we discover later on.  Anyway, on with the review: We discover soon enough along the way that the government has virtually written the entire mission off and fully expects it to fail...something that Jerry Mitchell and the Memphis skipper, Lowell Hardy intend to avoid.  Once again, the technical detail is very thorough.  You receive everything but a guided tour of a real nuclear submarine while reading Dangerous Ground.  What you unfortunately do NOT get, is a lot of entertainment along the way.  Certainly the story was interesting enough, but just barely enough to maintain my attention over the course of the two weeks I spent reading.  One thing you CAN look forward to is the eventual arrival of the Memphis to Russian waters to carry out their nearly impossible job.  The last quarter of the book is text-book edge-of-your-seat action.  My only gripe is that in order to get TO that action, you must meander through three-quarters of semi-enjoyable submarine jargon-filled storyline.  If the majority of this book represents what it is actually like on board a United States Submarine (which I believe it does), I will be forever thankful I chose a different career path than the military...and the Navy in particular.    In short, I found that I CAN recommend this story, but only to those hard-core submarine thriller readers like myself who find it difficult to wait in between books by Michael DiMercurio and Joe Buff.  Other than that, I found the story quite lacking when compared with the previous novels of Larry Bond, all of which I can endorse quite happily.	2005-06-29
US	47950934	R1NPTYK920HBFQ	0345457129	950562266	Weapons of Choice (The Axis of Time Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	VERY promising -- but slightly misses the mark...	After seeing this novel at my local book store completely by accident, I picked it up and like a good number of people drawn to this book, I couldn't help but notice the incredible similarities (some would say outright copy) of the early '80's movie, 'Final Countdown' with Kirk Douglas and Martin Sheen.  In that tale, the USS Nimitz, on duty off the coast of Hawaii, encounters a mysterious weather pattern which follows and eventually envelops the carrier and when they emerge, they find themselves captive in the same world, but the date is December 6th 1941 -- the day BEFORE the sneak-attack on Pearl Harbor by the Naval & Air Forces of Japan.  Coincidence?  It would seem ridiculous to say this story wasn't at least partially influenced by that movie.<br /><br />With that aside, the story begins rather fast and the journey from the year 2021 back to 1942 doesn't take long at all...however, as another reviewer also mentioned, the author seems to take quite a bit of unnecessary time setting the stage for the Multi-National Forces as they are unexpectedly and instantly transported smack in the middle of the American Task Force on the way to Midway to battle with the Japanese Navy.  The resulting shock to both sides and the unfortunate battle that takes place was well done...but again, after so many pages I couldn't help but wonder when it would end.  It seemed to last forEVER.  MUCH too long.  Yes, it was filled with great military descriptions and great battles, but it just went on for way too many chapters.  Had the editors, or even the author chopped this down to a more appropriate length, this first novel by John Birmingham would have rated at LEAST 4 stars.  Well written and quite entertaining (for the most part) I found it an easy read overall and found myself rather curious as to where the story would lead to next.<br /><br />One more thing: Like a few other reviews I have read here, I couldn't help but feel as though this entire story most likely could have been done in one single, large volume rather than over the course of a multi-novel arc.  I understand the marketing value of such a plan, however unfortunately as it so often does, it ends up diluting the story so much in order to s-t-r-e-t-c-h it out that the entire series suffers needlessly.  Maybe it could have been done in two books, but any more than that and well, everybody suffers -- especially the readers.  I DO hold out high hopes that I am proven wrong in this matter and the author totally redeems himself with the second novel, 'Designated Targets'...I AM planning on buying and reading it, but until I am proven wrong, and somehow I believe deep down I won't, I'll stick with my initial beliefs.  All in all I would have to say I enjoyed the book for the most part, and do look forward to picking up the next installment.  Time will tell, however whether or not it will meet, exceed or fall flat compared with this one.een done in one single, large volume rather than over the course of a multi-novel arc.  I understand the marketing value of such a plan, however unfortunately as it so often does, it ends up diluting the story so much in order to s-t-r-e-t-c-h it out that the entire series suffers needlessly.  Maybe it could have been done in two books, but any more than that and well, everybody suffers -- especially the readers.  I DO hold out high hopes that I am proven wrong in this matter and the author totally redeems himself with the second novel, 'Designated Targets'...I AM planning on buying and reading it, but until I am proven wrong, and somehow I believe deep down I won't, I'll stick with my initial beliefs.  All in all I would have to say I enjoyed the book for the most part, and do look forward to picking up the next installment.  Time will tell, however whether or not it will meet, exceed or fall flat compared with this one.	2005-05-12
US	47950934	R3QWPWFXJ2I7UC	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	5	6	13	N	Y	Light YEARS better than his earlier stuff...	When I say Map of Bones is better than James Rollins' earlier novels, I can't TELL you just how much better this book really is.  And keep in mind his other novels are pretty dang good to begin with.  But with this book, Mr. Rollins surpasses his earlier works by an INCREDIBLE distance.  I hardly know where to begin.  Let me just say that ever since the Da Vinci Code Phenomenon began a few years ago, I have seen novel after novel which attempts to favorably compare itself to Dan Brown's fantastic novel of religion, history and treachery.  But with Map of Bones not only has someone FINALLY been able to write a book which honestly CAN be compared with The Da Vinci Code, but I predict there are MANY who read both who will love this book even MORE.<br /><br />Pretty bold statement, huh?  Well its a pretty dang good book.  Not only is Map of Bones JUST as good, but it is also quite similar (yet entirely different).  Similar in that the underlying theme is religion...similar in that ancient puzzles are left behind for others to follow in order to find an amazing treasure, for lack of a better term.  Part 'National Treasure' and part Da Vinci Code, this book has it ALL.<br /><br />The story begins in a very old Catholic Cathederal in Germany.  Almost immediately after the congregation accepts Communion, a group of unknown terrorists dressed as simple Monks storm the chapel and suddenly, every single person in the audience who had taken the Communion dies slowly and painfully.  Seemingly burned from the inside OUT.  Those who did not accept Communion are gunned down viciously.  One survivor recalls the entire bloody ordeal and before you know it, the Vatican and a Super Secret United States Covert group are called in to investigate.  Believe it or not, according to the author the Catholic Church employs their own Intelligence Agency, not unlike the CIA.  This group, along with the American Sigma Force, begins a frightening investigation which leads them from Germany to Alexandria, Egypt to the very resting place of St. Peter himself beneath the dome of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican.<br /><br />What were the terrorists after?  Well it certainly wasn't the solid gold coffin at the Cathederal.  It was the ancient bones of the Magi, otherwise known as the Three Wise Men who made the journey to visit the baby Jesus bearing the gifts we have known about recounted from the pages of the New Testament itself.  Why are the bones worth so much?  That is just one of the puzzles the Vatican and Sigma Force attempts to figure out.  Eventually they decipher enough clues to make the journey back to Rome and inspect the ancient site of St. Peter's bones within the catacombs of the Vatican.  All along the way, a secret society of men are following them each and every step of the way bent on making the discovery, or stealing whatever IS found in order to move on to the next location.  From the actual burial place of Alexander The Great and more clues, the story heats up to a fever pitch and the entertainment value is completely off the charts.<br /><br />I found myself constantly thinking that I have finally found the next new Super-Thriller Phenomenon which ought to follow in the footsteps of the incredibly popular Da Vinci Code.  To be honest, I found the two novels about equal in all respects, which is really high praise considering Mr. Brown's novel is one of the most popular fiction books of the past Decade.  The final outcome, while slightly predictable, was enjoyable nevertheless.  The REALLY good news is that Map of Bones is the first in a new series to be written using Sigma Force.  I can't TELL you how much I am now looking forward to installment No. 2.  Now if only Mr. Rollins could write a little faster...  Highly, HIGHLY recommended.  Easily one of the top 10 fictional novels I have read in the past 10-15 YEARS.to Alexandria, Egypt to the very resting place of St. Peter himself beneath the dome of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican.   <br /> <br />What were the terrorists after?  Well it certainly wasn't the solid gold coffin at the Cathederal.  It was the ancient bones of the Magi, otherwise known as the Three Wise Men who made the journey to visit the baby Jesus bearing the gifts we have known about recounted from the pages of the New Testament itself.  Why are the bones worth so much?  That is just one of the puzzles the Vatican and Sigma Force attempts to figure out.  Eventually they decipher enough clues to make the journey back to Rome and inspect the ancient site of St. Peter's bones within the catacombs of the Vatican.  All along the way, a secret society of men are following them each and every step of the way bent on making the discovery, or stealing whatever IS found in order to move on to the next location.  From the actual burial place of Alexander The Great and more clues, the story heats up to a fever pitch and the entertainment value is completely off the charts.   <br /> <br />I found myself constantly thinking that I have finally found the next new Super-Thriller Phenomenon which ought to follow in the footsteps of the incredibly popular Da Vinci Code.  To be honest, I found the two novels about equal in all respects, which is really high praise considering Mr. Brown's novel is one of the most popular fiction books of the past Decade.  The final outcome, while slightly predictable, was enjoyable nevertheless.  The REALLY good news is that Map of Bones is the first in a new series to be written using Sigma Force.  I can't TELL you how much I am now looking forward to installment No. 2.  Now if only Mr. Rollins could write a little faster...  Highly, HIGHLY recommended.  Easily one of the top 10 fictional novels I have read in the past 10-15 YEARS.	2005-04-26
US	47950934	R22RUW46TAB5I5	0345428838	547341365	Star Wars, Episode III - Revenge of the Sith	Books	5	3	4	N	N	After this, I can't WAIT for the movie...	I was a bit skeptical at beginning this last of the novels based on the very last film that will be made...If you have read any of the original novelizations based on Episodes IV, V or VI you know why.  The first was actually ghost-written by Alan Dean Foster, the second wasn't quite as good, and by the third book it just seemed quite a poor version of what was put visually on the big screen.  I believe George Lucas has learned a valuable lesson over the years in requesting novelists who are actually very talented, which translates into a MUCH better reading experience.<br /><br />That said, I still wasn't sure if I wanted to spoil the film by reading the book first.  Of all the films, the only one I read in advance of seeing the movie was The Empire Strikes Back, and my audible *Gasp* at reading the stunning revelation when Darth admits to Luke he is his Father, well lets just say I interrupted my entire Language Arts Class with my genuine surprise.  It was for this VERY reason I chose not to read Return of the Jedi and subsequently Episodes I & II until AFTER I had seen the movies.  I took a gamble with Episode III and I believe I lucked out and made the right choice.<br /><br />Let's be honest:  There really isn't going to be any MAJOR surprises here, right?  We ALL know how it all ends, eventually.  However, the series surprised me before, and although a few technical details won't shock me when I see it all on the big screen, I doubt I will enjoy it any less.  Let's start at the beginning:  George Lucas has written a MUCH better script than we had in Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones.  This really IS going to be a much darker film by comparison, because like it or not, the loveable little Annie from Tatooine WILL grow up to be the Dark Lord of the Sith, Darth Vader.  He is partially responsible for the death of the Old Republic and the slaughter of hundreds of Jedi Knights, along with future crimes against the Galaxy in helping to build the Death Star, which would eventually be used to incinerate the peaceful planet of Alderaan.  Yes, like it or not Anakin Skywalker is going to become one of the worst people ever seen on the big screen.  So, no REAL surprises there, right?  I guess the REAL surprise is not necessarily in how things end up, its more or less the journey along the way.  The spectacular crash of General Grievous' flagship INTO Coruscant, saving the lives of Obi Wan and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine.  I suppose a select few will actually be quite surprised at who Darth Sidious is revealed to be (to the hard core Star Wars fans this will NOT be a surprise).  I must admit when I read the Phantom Menace I was a bit surprised at the mention of Darth Sidious.  I mean this Lord of the Sith had never been mentioned before...I suppose I just assumed the Emperor just decided to become just that, the Emperor, and I never really put much thought into the fact that he was probably a Darth something-or-other before his self-appointment as the Emperor of the Empire.  I guess now I know differently.  It all becomes rather clear in the end.<br /><br />Others have noticed one glaring continuity error from this novelization which conflicts with the established chronological history as originally seen (and read) in Episode VI, Return of the Jedi.  Just before Luke turns himself over to Vader, he reveals his relationship with Leia by asking her if she ever remembered her Mother...she said she did, only slightly.  Well according to Revenge of the Sith this would be quite a miracle since it appears that Amidala, who is Mother to both Luke & Leia dies during childbirth.  Yes, an error to be sure, but if the film version even remotely lives up to what I read in the book, we are ALL in for an incredible treat for the senses.  The Light Saber duels ought to be the best of ALL the other 5 films COMBINED.  For the first time we get to see the Emperor take up a light saber against not just Mace Windu, but Master Yoda as well.  For the first time we get to see exactly HOW Anakin went from looking like Hayden Christensen to looking like, well Darth Vader in all his black helmet-wearing glory.  We read a tiny bit about it in Return of the Jedi, but trust me, it doesn't even come close to doing justice for how it is in the book and I can only imagine how stunning it ought to be visually.<br /><br />Only one other thing bugged me about the book, but mind you it is only a minor gripe at that: Every few chapters or so, the author attempts to put us inside the head of certain characters by saying lines like: This is what it is like to be Obi Wan RIGHT NOW.  This is what it is like to be Anakin Skywalker, and soforth.  I can't exactly say why, but it kind of bugged me a little.  Other than that, I am quite pleased with the novel as well as the culmination of how things came to be at the beginning of Episode IV, A New Hope.  An achievement which will make us Star Wars fans literally BEG George Lucas to just consider doing Episodes VII, VIII and IX.  C'mon, George...can't you just CONSIDER it???  For the FANS????to see exactly HOW Anakin went from looking like Hayden Christensen to looking like, well Darth Vader in all his black helmet-wearing glory.  We read a tiny bit about it in Return of the Jedi, but trust me, it doesn't even come close to doing justice for how it is in the book and I can only imagine how stunning it ought to be visually.      Only one other thing bugged me about the book, but mind you it is only a minor gripe at that: Every few chapters or so, the author attempts to put us inside the head of certain characters by saying lines like: This is what it is like to be Obi Wan RIGHT NOW.  This is what it is like to be Anakin Skywalker, and soforth.  I can't exactly say why, but it kind of bugged me a little.  Other than that, I am quite pleased with the novel as well as the culmination of how things came to be at the beginning of Episode IV, A New Hope.  An achievement which will make us Star Wars fans literally BEG George Lucas to just consider doing Episodes VII, VIII and IX.  C'mon, George...can't you just CONSIDER it???  For the FANS????	2005-04-25
US	47950934	R32ZDM67NJPEBY	0595666353	974897728	Torpedo: A Surface Warfare Thriller	Books	5	70	79	N	N	The absolute BEST military thriller in 10 YEARS...	I MUST start this out by saying that I am NOT the same Jeff Edwards that wrote this book.  I am NOT a writer, and other than my reviews, I haven't written anything anyone has ever read since college.  With that said, let me start off by saying I was more than a bit skeptical as I was asked to give 'Torpedo' a go. (I must admit I had a good time fooling my wife into believing I had managed to write and publish a book without her knowing about it)  I don't know WHY I was hesitant, because over the years I have come to discover that just because someone hasn't published a book DOESN'T mean they aren't better than 99% of the writers currently in print today.  Publishing companies are notorious for NOT giving someone new their big break.  They are afraid that since the author MAY not be familiar, the book simply cannot sell.  How tragic.<br /><br />One of my ALL-TIME favorite books has GOT to be 'Red Moon' by David S. Michaels.  After reading this I had to wonder what simple-minded editor refused to give this guy a contract???  The same is true of 'Torpedo'.  Written by someone who has actually BEEN there DONE that, the ring of authenticity rings true on each and every page.  Not since Tom Clancy in his writing Hey Day (which was a while ago) has a Military Thriller been this true-to-life.<br /><br />'Torpedo' really IS catchy with a story that just cannot miss.  Everything that makes a good book compelling to read is found here.  Nations breaking International Law.  Biological attacks on the British Embassy IN the United States.  Submarines being smuggled right under the noses of British ships.  Ships being sunk for all the wrong reasons.  And best of all: An intelligent plot that moves with all the speed of a Tomahawk Missle.  I stopped counting all the times I kept asking myself, this didn't REALLY happen, did it?  The realism is unprecedented and highly tension-filled -- but in a GOOD way.<br /><br />I have a simple barometer for determining whether or not a book is really good.  If it is the first thing I think about when I get up, and the last thing on my mind when I go to bed, the book is GOOD.  'Torpedo' IS GOOD.  It met my qualifications and passed with flying colors.  Exciting and highly realistic, this book needs more attention and at the very least, an editor who knows that a book like this DESERVES a chance to be read by the widest audience possible that can truly appreciate good, honest, fun thrillers.  Give 'Torpedo' a shot and especially if you have missed the Tom Clancy of old, this will remind you of why you read Military Thrillers in the first place.  Absolutely fantastic work...and easily the best first novel since Clancy's 'Hunt For Red October'.ook is really good.  If it is the first thing I think about when I get up, and the last thing on my mind when I go to bed, the book is GOOD.  'Torpedo' IS GOOD.  It met my qualifications and passed with flying colors.  Exciting and highly realistic, this book needs more attention and at the very least, an editor who knows that a book like this DESERVES a chance to be read by the widest audience possible that can truly appreciate good, honest, fun thrillers.  Give 'Torpedo' a shot and especially if you have missed the Tom Clancy of old, this will remind you of why you read Military Thrillers in the first place.  Absolutely fantastic work...and easily the best first novel since Clancy's 'Hunt For Red October'.	2005-04-13
US	47950934	R3I1NE3SQPGQKC	0976165902	213935822	The Loch	Books	5	74	78	N	N	If you have never read Steve Alten before, NOW is the time!	I have been a HUGE fan of Steve Alten and his boundless imagination ever since he published 'Meg' several years ago.  My how time flies and Steve has continued to thrill and impress me over and over again.  If you have read some of his earlier stuff, you KNOW he can spin a yarn about mythical, or even prehistoric monsters...but how will he do with one of the best known myths of the past 100 years?  In a word: GREAT.<br /><br />This story captures you virtually from the first page.  Written in first person, I immediately found it engaging and it kept me highly interested in what would happen next.  I could hardly turn the pages fast enough.  I KNOW that sounds like a tired and overused cliche, but with Steve Alten, it simply is TRUE.<br /><br />The entire Wallace family has deep roots in Scotland, and more specifically, in and around famous Loch Ness.  The latest Wallace (Marine Biologist Zachary) intends to break these roots as he finds himself terribly estranged from his Father Angus, who would rather find warmth in the arms of virtually any woman other than his wife.  Zach moves with his American Mother back to the States and because of a deep hatred of his Father, works twice as hard to prove himself -- not to his Dad, but to himself.  Eventually he succeeds becoming world renown and teams with National Geographic to attempt to capture on film a living Giant Squid in the Sargasso Sea.  The resulting tragic accident nearly kills Zach and plunges him into a bottomless pit which quickly spins out of control.  Out of a job, home and with the sudden phobia of the water, Zach simply doesn't know where to turn, until his half brother unexpectedly shows up begging him to come back to Scotland and help support their Father who is on trial for murder.<br /><br />This is where the story takes a turn from merely entertaining to a virtually scorching hot read as events continue to snowball out of control around the Trial of the Century in Great Britain.  Has Angus sent for young Zach for moral support, or has he other dark nefarious plans in place?  Well you can guess for yourself what it may be, but I'll wager you won't guess true.  Is there something truly in the waters of the great Loch Ness that can scientifically be explained?  According to Steve Alten and many others, the answer is a qualified YES.  The really interesting part is exactly what *It* really IS.  I must admit it took me by surprise.  Don't believe in big myths like the Loch Ness Monster?  You just might after you finish this book.  Twists & turns enough to make you dizzy and a VERY engaging plot with a great novel written by someone with true storytelling talent makes The Loch one of those rare thrillers you cannot afford to miss.  If you consider yourself a fan of Steve Alten's stuff, you will NOT be disappointed with this one.  Caution:  starting this will force you to miss work, sleep and who knows what else...but don't worry, you'll put the book down...after the NEXT chapter...or maybe the one after that...t for young Zach for moral support, or has he other dark nefarious plans in place?  Well you can guess for yourself what it may be, but I'll wager you won't guess true.  Is there something truly in the waters of the great Loch Ness that can scientifically be explained?  According to Steve Alten and many others, the answer is a qualified YES.  The really interesting part is exactly what *It* really IS.  I must admit it took me by surprise.  Don't believe in big myths like the Loch Ness Monster?  You just might after you finish this book.  Twists & turns enough to make you dizzy and a VERY engaging plot with a great novel written by someone with true storytelling talent makes The Loch one of those rare thrillers you cannot afford to miss.  If you consider yourself a fan of Steve Alten's stuff, you will NOT be disappointed with this one.  Caution:  starting this will force you to miss work, sleep and who knows what else...but don't worry, you'll put the book down...after the NEXT chapter...or maybe the one after that...	2005-04-06
US	47950934	R2LENZDRWC9G4N	0385513755	315416156	The Da Vinci Code: Special Illustrated Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fantastic addition to an already stunning thriller...	I simply wish when I had originally read TDVC that I had this edition to refer to.  I remember hearing that many photos of the places and things referred to in the novel were available at Dan Brown's website, and I logged on as quickly as I could.  They were great, but this edition of the book goes WAY BEYOND that.  Thank heavens!<br /><br />As I re-read this totally entrancing novel, I found myself (yet again) totally enmeshed in the incredible storyline.  There are many who are cashing in on TDVC by attempting to *expose* some of the so-called half-truths and partial lies of the book, but I figure things a bit different:  if its all true, great.  If NOT...I still enjoyed the book.  The fact that Mr. Brown was able to create a story this detailed using whatever kinds of facts or outright fantasy or whatever you wish to call it and manage to convey it in such a compelling fashion, well its nothing short of amazing (to me at least).<br /><br />As I finished TDVC one of my original thoughts centered on who would play Robert Langdon in the movie version -- and then I began to wonder just to what degree they would botch the whole thing in making an attempt to bring so much detail to the big screen without compromising the story too much.  A daunting task to say the least.<br /><br />What Dan Brown needs to do next is oversee the illustrated edition of Angels & Demons...JUST as entertaining and JUST as compelling as TDVC.  If you enjoyed this one, you OWE it to yourself to pick up A&D -- you WON'T be disappointed.<br /><br />Fans of The Da Vinci Code rejoice!  This is the version of this timeless historical thriller that you absolutely MUST have.  Buy it and share with those who share similar reading styles and you will forever be their hero.  Stop wasting time searching through the internet for all the details found in this one version.  It is WELL worth the price.  Simply superb.	2005-04-05
US	47950934	R27F2ZXQR95AMC	0553297996	339664024	Dark Apprentice (Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Three stars MAY be pushing it a little...	I am torn about how to review this book.  One the one hand, Kevin J. Anderson is a fine author...but on the other, I have yet to read a single Star Wars book by him that actually impressed me -- even a little, and I consider myself a HUGE Star Wars fan.  The idea of Luke starting a Jedi Academy is nothing short of a brilliant plot idea -- too bad the tremendous potential this offered just wasn't taken advantage of.  Sure, the story begins good enough, but I found myself un-interested in what happened next.  Would they make it out alive?  Would they survive the next accident?  Would they be betrayed?  I discovered after only a short time, that I simply did NOT CARE.<br /><br />By and large, this WASN'T a Star Wars novel.  It was a science fiction story that just so happened to have characters named Luke, Han & Leia.  That is about the only thing I found similar to your basic Star Wars tale.  The *essence* of what made those characters people we desperately wanted to know more about just wasn't there...and trust me, I REALLY wanted it to BE there, but it just wasn't.  I never found myself thinking, 'Gee, that is exactly what C3PO would've said...' instead I discovered several places where I distinctly remember thinking, 'Han wouldn't have said THAT...'.  When an average Joe like me begins to be totally unconcerned with major players like Luke and Han, something just isn't right.<br /><br />Once again, I give high marks for coming up with a great idea, but I just wasn't sold on the product along the way.  If Kevin J. Anderson were a salesman, he would never sell another Star Wars novel ever again -- at least to me (and after this series, I have yet to read a single one).  On the other hand, I have read some genuinely GREAT novels by Mr. Anderson that were NOT Star Wars (check a few out, he's written a rather large selection of stories in several different genre's).  Unfortunately, as for Star Wars, Mr. Anderson was just so so for me.  I wanted to like them, I really did...eally did...	2005-03-29
US	47950934	R2AWCUK1I52SZA	0743406079	927922032	Freefall	Books	5	6	7	N	N	If you liked Icefire, you'll LOVE Freefall -- Stunning!	I MUST admit, there is one major thing I have against Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens': They WRITE TOO SLOW.  Other than that, what can I say?  Taking techno-thrillers to the next level is exactly what this phenomenal writing duo has done with all three of their novels to date (including Quicksilver and Freefall).  What they previously had done for Star Trek, they now do in a completely different arena.  NORMALLY if I like a Fantasy or Sci Fi book by an author, and one day I see their name on a novel that is written in anything other than the Sci Fi genre, I tend to shy away.  Sure, this isn't necessarily fair, but from the vast majority of authors I have read who have taken such bold steps, very few have succeeded.  In this case, it isn't so much success as it is an absolute triumph.<br /><br />Capturing your attention immediately is something the authors do rather well, and with Freefall they do so again.  Captain Mitchell Webber is literally freefalling into a man-made lake in China on a covert mission to capture information on airplanes, but quickly discovers luner landing craft instead of what he was expecting...and even worse, he suspects that those who sent him knew all along what they were going to find.<br /><br />The next scene delivers us into orbit (literally) as the International Space Station is visited by a NASA shuttle, when all Hell breaks loose.  Before you know it, lives are lost, the ISS is crippled and NASA has lost yet another shuttle.  The startling questions that begin to arise as a result of this tragic accident are coming into focus with inescapable clarity: Someone has committed sabotage.  What are they looking for?  What were they willing to kill over?  The answers are quite surprising...and VERY entertaining.<br /><br />The United States Space Force has been around for many years, but unfortunately, only a very select few know about their existence, and even fewer realize that after NASA scrapped going to the Moon after Apollo 17, the USSF continued to go.  I don't wish to spoil some genuine surprises along the way, but just keep in mind the authors keep you out of the loop until the bitter end as to the big question you continue to think as more and more information becomes unveiled: WHY?  I think I was little more than half-way through before I realized one very interesting thing about Freefall: I didn't want it to end.  I believe that is the biggest compliment I could ever pay any author, and I don't dole out comments like that easily.  It has been a very long time since I read anything which made me think this way.<br /><br />I must say one more thing: as I read this book, I HAD to notice several similar themed events which happened in a novel called, 'Red Moon' by David S. Michaels.  That book, which is one of my all-time favorites, asks an interesting question which covers some similar ground, What IF the Russians actually made it to the Moon FIRST?  IF they did, why on earth would they keep it a secret?  An absolutely stunning novel that you should search out and read especially if you enjoyed Freefall.  Though both novels are similar in certain respects, they are quite different in overall concept.  I just found a small portion to remind me of another book that I just couldn't put down, in fact 'Red Moon' was probably the last novel before 'Freefall' that I read which made me wish it wouldn't end.<br /><br />Kudos AGAIN to this writing team.  You guys are AWESOME!!  Now go out and write FASTER!!!!!o 17, the USSF continued to go.  I don't wish to spoil some genuine surprises along the way, but just keep in mind the authors keep you out of the loop until the bitter end as to the big question you continue to think as more and more information becomes unveiled: WHY?  I think I was little more than half-way through before I realized one very interesting thing about Freefall: I didn't want it to end.  I believe that is the biggest compliment I could ever pay any author, and I don't dole out comments like that easily.  It has been a very long time since I read anything which made me think this way. <br /> <br />I must say one more thing: as I read this book, I HAD to notice several similar themed events which happened in a novel called, 'Red Moon' by David S. Michaels.  That book, which is one of my all-time favorites, asks an interesting question which covers some similar ground, What IF the Russians actually made it to the Moon FIRST?  IF they did, why on earth would they keep it a secret?  An absolutely stunning novel that you should search out and read especially if you enjoyed Freefall.  Though both novels are similar in certain respects, they are quite different in overall concept.  I just found a small portion to remind me of another book that I just couldn't put down, in fact 'Red Moon' was probably the last novel before 'Freefall' that I read which made me wish it wouldn't end.   <br /> <br />Kudos AGAIN to this writing team.  You guys are AWESOME!!  Now go out and write FASTER!!!!!	2005-03-24
US	47950934	R57ZD1HDN3LUX	0345435745	419320069	High Druid of Shannara, Book 2: Tanequil	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I enjoyed Jarka Ruus, I REALLY enjoyed Tanequil...	Hey, if it has Terry Brooks on the front, it'll SELL -- no if, ands OR buts about it.  So WHY does Brooks sell so well??  He is a dang good author.  Simply put.  He is VERY much in touch with his readers, and if you have ever had the opportunity to meet this man, you know how much effort he puts into making you feel like the ONLY person in line, regardless of how many other people are waiting to see him.  Not all authors treat their readers this well, and this is also one of the MAIN reasons why Brooks has been SO successful for so long.  He never forgets who made him who he is today.<br /><br />So with that said, with all of the effort he puts into his books, not all of them have come out as Home Runs.  Sure, I have liked each and every one, but some are better than others, which you can say about nearly every writer working today, especially if they have written enough books.  Jarka Ruus started out a nice new Trilogy for the Shannara Universe.  I seem to never tire of reading about what will happen next in this wonderful alternate existence.  While Jarka was fun and entertaining, it wasn't up there with a large portion of the other Shannara tales.  But I must admit that even so I really had fun reading it, which is one of the chief reasons why I read Brooks in the first place.  However Tanequil took that fun story and built upon it in a really creative way.  I VERY much enjoyed the alternate land in the Forbidding which made for a fun retreat for those of us familiar with the earlier Shannara stories.  VERY well told if you ask me.  Again, some people will like it more than others, but one of the big reasons why Brooks is so Universally liked is because he has set the bar so high himself by producing such fun Fantasy tales to begin with.  It becomes difficult to surpass what you have already done, or at least one would think so after a while.<br /><br />Now while I long for the day that Terry will return to the land of Shannara with HUGE stand-alone Epic Fantasy novels like he did with his first three books, I will patiently await that day reading whatever is knocking around his noggin in the meantime.  He is one of those MUST READ authors I have enjoyed over the years and after having the supreme blessing of interviewing him one-on-one a few years back, I feel like I enjoy his novels even more having personally met him.  Why?  I don't really know, he just has a way of making you feel special simply because you enjoy what he does.  Face it, the man has talent, not just for writing, but for making people feel important as well.  We are truly fortunate to have him writing new stuff all the time...now only if he could step up the pace a little...asy novels like he did with his first three books, I will patiently await that day reading whatever is knocking around his noggin in the meantime.  He is one of those MUST READ authors I have enjoyed over the years and after having the supreme blessing of interviewing him one-on-one a few years back, I feel like I enjoy his novels even more having personally met him.  Why?  I don't really know, he just has a way of making you feel special simply because you enjoy what he does.  Face it, the man has talent, not just for writing, but for making people feel important as well.  We are truly fortunate to have him writing new stuff all the time...now only if he could step up the pace a little...	2005-03-17
US	47950934	R1I61CPQFC0W5V	0060735023	396458551	Lost Lake	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Another 5 star winner from one of the best in the business	I have faithfully followed Phillip Margolin's work since I discovered 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' in the early 90's.  I have been profoundly grateful to Mr. Margolin for providing me with hours and hours of spine-tingling, thrill-a-minute entertainment which I have (by and large) enjoyed very much.  Sure, some are better than others, but on Margolin's worst day he is still miles ahead of Grisham's best stuff.  If you are looking for legal thrillers with BITE and tremendous entertainment value, nobody does it better.<br /><br />Lost Lake begins many years ago when current Presidential Candidate Morris Wingate's daughter comes upon a murder scene that is so shocking, she ends up being placed (against her will) in an institution for a full year.  Who was behind the murder?  Vanessa Wingate says it was Carl Rice, but was it, or could it have been a sinister plot by her father to cover up some truly dangerous information?  This is a conspiracy theorists dream come true novel if you ask me.  Vanessa flat out dislike's her father -- which is a nice way of saying she hates him really, really bad.  He had her forcefully committed for a year to keep anything she said regarding the murder she witnessed from becoming credible...or did he?  Vanessa comes across as quite a nut-job if you ask me, which is exactly what the author wants in order to keep you guessing whether or not anything she says is actually true.<br /><br />In the meantime Carl Rice is on the run having been identified as a murderer, and shortly thereafter linked to another savage killing he goes underground with the attempt to stay there.  However events beyond his control bring his life into the spotlight in ways he never dreamed of.  While placing some of his hand-built furniture in a craft fair, he stumbles upon Ami Vergano, an Attorney who invites him to rent the loft at her house.  He quickly bonds with her son, and while visiting one of his ball games, Carl (at this point known only as Dan Morelli) sees one of the parents acting out of control, and in his noble attempt to cool the situation down, it quickly escalates until the parent is incapacitated, a police officer is injured and Carl is shot.  The entire incident is videotaped by another parent and before long, Carl is the first-run story on all the TV News stations.  Uh oh.<br /><br />Vanessa, who has dropped Wingate and goes by Kohler now is employed by a Washington DC Tabloid paper that glorifies more in who Bigfoot is seeing for dental care rather than honest-to-goodness stories with actual merit.  Vanessa has found it difficult to find employment anywhere else because of her conspiracy theories and the fact she was mentally committed for a year.  It hasn't stopped her from writing a tell-all book about her father, former General Morris Wingate, current Presidential Candidate, who during Vietnam ran The Unit.  A covert group of highly trained men who carried out tactical assassinations, sometimes in Southeast Asia, and more disturbingly, sometimes right here in the States.  According to General Wingate, he has lovingly taken care of his emotionally scarred daughter even though she despises him, and he watches out for her in all she does.  According to Vanessa however, her father has done nothing but discredit and disgrace her, professionally as well as emotionally her entire life.  Who is telling the truth?  I must admit, right up front I believed that of course, it will all come out that Vanessa is right and that her father really IS a bad man, but as the story progressed I have to say that I became quite skeptical.  Maybe her father really WAS trying to look out for her best interests.  By the half-point of the novel, I was torn between both sides.<br /><br />Where does Carl fit in?  According to Carl, he was recruited by General Wingate and charged by the General in committing some of the horrible assassinations Vanessa has known about for years.  After Wingate betrays him, he finds himself on the lamb wondering whether or not he will ever be identified again and charged with the murder of a United States Politician. After being recognized by Vanessa after seeing him on the News, she immediately sets off to Portland, Oregon to find Carl and help prove his innocence.  Pulling that off will not be an easy task, though.  She attempts to hire Ami Vergano, who desperately tries to turn Vanessa down because she doesn't do criminal law, but Ami reluctantly agrees and immediately becomes swept up into a vortex of criminal conspiracies and dangerous lies.  Who exactly is telling the truth?  The answers just may surprise you.  I have to say that as the story unfolded I wondered just HOW Carl and Vanessa could possibly prove their side...General Wingate had either been telling the truth the whole time -- or doing an exceptionally good job of covering all evidence which could prove him to be the one man NOBODY wants sitting in the Oval Office.  Finding out the answers to these and many other questions is always the best part of reading a Phillip Margolin novel.  I wouldn't say this was my favorite of his, but I sure did enjoy it from beginning to end.  Another sure fire winner from America's BEST Legal Thriller Author.mb wondering whether or not he will ever be identified again and charged with the murder of a United States Politician. After being recognized by Vanessa after seeing him on the News, she immediately sets off to Portland, Oregon to find Carl and help prove his innocence.  Pulling that off will not be an easy task, though.  She attempts to hire Ami Vergano, who desperately tries to turn Vanessa down because she doesn't do criminal law, but Ami reluctantly agrees and immediately becomes swept up into a vortex of criminal conspiracies and dangerous lies.  Who exactly is telling the truth?  The answers just may surprise you.  I have to say that as the story unfolded I wondered just HOW Carl and Vanessa could possibly prove their side...General Wingate had either been telling the truth the whole time -- or doing an exceptionally good job of covering all evidence which could prove him to be the one man NOBODY wants sitting in the Oval Office.  Finding out the answers to these and many other questions is always the best part of reading a Phillip Margolin novel.  I wouldn't say this was my favorite of his, but I sure did enjoy it from beginning to end.  Another sure fire winner from America's BEST Legal Thriller Author.	2005-03-08
US	47950934	R3L8WKWZ4OVPVJ	0743454146	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Yet ANOTHER winner from Greg Iles!  This guy rocks!!	I discovered Greg Iles right after his original novel, 'Spandau Phoenix' was released, and I have been VERY fortunate I discovered this talented author at the beginning of his career.  I have seen him mature as a storyteller and I have also found out first hand that he is no one-hit-wonder, either.<br /><br />While I long for the day that Greg will write another Historical Thriller like he did with 'Spandau Phoenix' and 'Black Cross', I am happy to enjoy everything he writes in the meantime simply because he refuses to be categorized simply by one type of novel.  You want a courtroom thriller better than anything that Grisham has written?  Try 'The Quiet Game'.  How 'bout a supernatural thriller?  Iles has done that, too with 'Sleep No More'.  This guy has also written some pretty fantastic Techno-thrillers as well.  He can do it ALL.<br /><br />With 'Footprints of God' we see him at his creative best.  The storyline of 'Footprints' is a dandy one, too:  Is it possible to create a computer that is self-aware, with Artificial Intelligence that can grow and exceed that of the human brain?  Sounds like science fiction -- until you read this book I assure you.  Unless you are an absolute computer GENIUS, you will become totally absorbed by this incredible novel.  The US Government wants a computer that can help us crack any and all computer codes on the planet, and one that is self-aware would be able to do that within mere seconds.  But, a rather large problem exsists: we don't know HOW to build one.  One of the super-computer age creators of the past 50 years submits that maybe we can build one without HAVING to understand how it works.  Sounds hard to believe, right?  What if we could use a Super MRI Scanner to essentially digitally COPY your brain into a computer...wouldn't that do the trick?  It seems that yes, it could -- but the ethical problems this causes is the real plot to 'Footprints'.<br /><br />Dr. Tennant and his co-worker, Dr. Fielding have grave concerns about the Trinity Project, yet as scientists, they also are insatiably curious as to whether or not this type of project can actually SUCCEED.  When Dr. Fielding suddenly dies of a stroke, Tennant immediately KNOWS it was NO accident.  He also knows that his life is now dangerously close to and end as well because of the information he knows, and because Trinity's leaders also know he believes Fielding was killed.  One part conspiracy theory, two-parts thrills, 'Footprints of God' is a slam-bang amazingly creative 'what if' scenario that also manages to bring in the life of Jesus of all things.  Exactly HOW does Iles pull it off?  For the answer to that, you will have to read the book -- but don't worry, you will be doing yourself a pretty big favor by doing so.<br /><br />All in all, this novel contains pretty much everything I look for in a modern thriller, first and foremost, it contains an exceptionally creative plot...second, well there IS no second.  It just WORKS.  Greg Iles is without a doubt, one of the most gifted storytellers writing today and I am a VERY lucky reader indeed to have been able to discover his variety of novels over the years.  I am also grateful that he is young enough that I can look forward to reading a whole lot more of him in the future.concerns about the Trinity Project, yet as scientists, they also are insatiably curious as to whether or not this type of project can actually SUCCEED.  When Dr. Fielding suddenly dies of a stroke, Tennant immediately KNOWS it was NO accident.  He also knows that his life is now dangerously close to and end as well because of the information he knows, and because Trinity's leaders also know he believes Fielding was killed.  One part conspiracy theory, two-parts thrills, 'Footprints of God' is a slam-bang amazingly creative 'what if' scenario that also manages to bring in the life of Jesus of all things.  Exactly HOW does Iles pull it off?  For the answer to that, you will have to read the book -- but don't worry, you will be doing yourself a pretty big favor by doing so.   <br /> <br />All in all, this novel contains pretty much everything I look for in a modern thriller, first and foremost, it contains an exceptionally creative plot...second, well there IS no second.  It just WORKS.  Greg Iles is without a doubt, one of the most gifted storytellers writing today and I am a VERY lucky reader indeed to have been able to discover his variety of novels over the years.  I am also grateful that he is young enough that I can look forward to reading a whole lot more of him in the future.	2005-02-22
US	47950934	R33L3HTDQX482F	0743457110	847530116	0: To Reign in Hell: The Exile of Khan Noonien Singh (Star Trek)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A beautiful tribute to one of Trek's greatest characters...	Whether or not you are an avid or just a part-time Trek fan, most people agree that 'The Wrath of Khan' was the best of the theatrical films based on this 60's space drama.  What many people did not know when 'Wrath' premiered was its connection to an original episode called, 'Space Seed' which ended with Kirk leaving a rag-tag group of 20th century genetically engineered superhumans who attempted to hijack the Enterprise on a backwoods planet called Ceti Alpha V to begin a new civilization.  What Kirk forgot to do over time, was to come back and check on their progress.<br /><br />From the Trek II movie we found that not long after being marooned on the planet, it's closest neighbor exploded laying absolute ruin to Ceti Alpha V.  Khan and his band of genetically superior humans nearly perished.  Chekhov accidentally finds them years later and Khan proceeds to wreak havoc on the galaxy in pure revenge against Kirk.  What we DON'T know is what happened in between the end of Space Seed and the beginning of Wrath of  Khan.  Greg Cox takes what little information existed on the subject and true-to-form paints us a brilliant and creative story about how Khan begins his Reign in Hell on Ceti Alpha V.<br /><br />The planet originally in good shape is soon transformed into a virtual uninhabitable wasteland after its neighbor implodes a few months after their original marooning.  Using his superior intellect, Khan manages to keep his small (and continually dwindling) group of genetically engineered humans alive through some luck and a great deal of sheer will.  We find out more about his Starfleet wife who willingly was banished along with Khans outcasts.  The story of how the followers somehow always viewed her as an outsider not worthy of their company came as an interesting side note to the story.  Khan, ever the brutal dictator, almost comes across as someone worthy of pity during their seemingly endless trials.  Just when you think things cannot get any worse, it does -- and dramatically so most of the time.<br /><br />What prompts this view into Khans past comes to light after the events in The Voyage Home when Kirk, Spock, Sulu and McCoy embark upon a trip to Ceti Alpha V to force some closure to the horrible events sparked as a result of the discovery that Khan was still alive.  After arriving on the planet, Kirk, Spock and McCoy discover underground tunnels which gave Khans superhumans an actual place to live away from the Hell of life on the surface.  They discover a journal which chronicles life on Ceti Alpha V and a great deal of the amazing experiences this group had to endure daily just to stay alive.  Not just the trials of living in an always hostile environment, but also the seeds of discontent sprouting among the survivors.  A few of Khans followers begin to doubt Khans ability to lead properly, and hatch a plot to kill him, and thus eliminate his wife, who just doesn't measure up genetically with the rest of the group.<br /><br />I can't remember how many times as I read this story how I was impressed with Greg Cox's boundless imagination.  How could anything ELSE bad happen to these people?  Just as I thought this, he showed me that yes, it COULD get worse -- much worse.  Just as I thought that he HAD to be out of clever ideas and plot twists to make the story any more interesting, he surprised me yet again.  All I can say is if you are a moderate to genuine Trek fan, this story WILL entertain you and may even inspire some remorse for what Khan's murderous group has to endure.  For fans of Cox's previous 'Rise and Fall of Khan' novels, please know that the story ISN'T finished until you close the last page of this tale.  WELL told and a real treat for us Trek fans who long for something truly different.does -- and dramatically so most of the time.   <br /> <br />What prompts this view into Khans past comes to light after the events in The Voyage Home when Kirk, Spock, Sulu and McCoy embark upon a trip to Ceti Alpha V to force some closure to the horrible events sparked as a result of the discovery that Khan was still alive.  After arriving on the planet, Kirk, Spock and McCoy discover underground tunnels which gave Khans superhumans an actual place to live away from the Hell of life on the surface.  They discover a journal which chronicles life on Ceti Alpha V and a great deal of the amazing experiences this group had to endure daily just to stay alive.  Not just the trials of living in an always hostile environment, but also the seeds of discontent sprouting among the survivors.  A few of Khans followers begin to doubt Khans ability to lead properly, and hatch a plot to kill him, and thus eliminate his wife, who just doesn't measure up genetically with the rest of the group.   <br /> <br />I can't remember how many times as I read this story how I was impressed with Greg Cox's boundless imagination.  How could anything ELSE bad happen to these people?  Just as I thought this, he showed me that yes, it COULD get worse -- much worse.  Just as I thought that he HAD to be out of clever ideas and plot twists to make the story any more interesting, he surprised me yet again.  All I can say is if you are a moderate to genuine Trek fan, this story WILL entertain you and may even inspire some remorse for what Khan's murderous group has to endure.  For fans of Cox's previous 'Rise and Fall of Khan' novels, please know that the story ISN'T finished until you close the last page of this tale.  WELL told and a real treat for us Trek fans who long for something truly different.	2005-02-16
US	47950934	R1C3NNNXDSDUVH	0765305232	393437308	Chainfire: Chainfire Trilogy, Part 1 (Sword of Truth, Book 9)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Absolutely BRILLIANT!  Best since Wizard's First Rule...	I have totally forgotten why I ever picked up a copy of 'Wizard's First Rule'...all I remember is that I have rarely made a better literary decision than to begin the Sword of Truth Series.  I really began my love of Fantasy after reading 'The Sword of Shannara' by Terry brooks back in 1979.  Back then I felt that I would never read a book that could top it.  How naive could I BE??  C'mon!  Brooks improved upon his first novel in many ways, and I found the Grand Master of Fantasy in my late teens (Tolkien) but no matter how hard I tried, I simply could not find a Fantasy novel or series that captured me the way I needed in order to fully enjoy the way I wanted.  Then one day about 8 years ago I gambled on Terry Goodkind and I have never once looked back.<br /><br />After reading 'Wizard's First Rule' I was entirely blown away.  'Stone of Tears' was a mighty close 2nd place and further proved that Goodkind was anything but a one-hit-wonder.  Like most authors, over time you hit bigger home runs than other times at bat, but each was a fantastic adventure.  While each of the previous 8 novels were all connected, they were self-contained stories that (for the most part) wrapped up the storyline by the end...similar to the first 3 Shannara novels.  But 'Chainfire' begins what looks to be a 3 novel arc which for the first time leaves one incredible cliff-hanger on the last page.  I was NOT expecting this.  I began to suspect that the story would not come to conclusion when I suddenly realized how few pages were left and how MUCH was left to sort out.  I just assumed that while the war with Emperor Jagang would still be unfinished, the major storyline would come to a close.  Nope.  For those who have yet to start this book, you may find this a little help in knowing that by starting page 1 you will not be able to entirely finish this entire story for a year, possibly and most likely 2 years.<br /><br />Now, with that said, is 'Chainfire' worth beginning?  Without a DOUBT.  This is Goodkind's best plotted story since 'Wizard'.  Although it gets off to a slow start, it really doesn't take long for the rubber to hit the pavement.  Richard finally takes a front seat in this stunning tale.  After a few novels which have either reduced him to a supporting role, or turned him into a quasi-Preacher and Champion of the Oppressed, 'Chainfire' gives us an amazing premise:  What if magic were used to totally erase the memory of one of the most influential people in the History of the land in the Sword of Truth?  Specifically the Mother Confessor herself, Kahlan.<br /><br />Richard awakes from a battle with the Imperial Order barely alive.  Without Nicci's use of Subtractive Magic to save him, he most surely would have died.  However, as he comes to, his thoughts immediately go to his wife.  How is she?  Did she survive?  Is she alive, wounded -- what?  The answers are worse than any nightmare Richard has ever faced:  Nobody, not one single person has ANY memory that Richard was ever married, nor do they know who this Kahlan is.  In fact they all believe this delusion Richard is speaking of directly is the result of his traumatic near-death experience in battle with the Order.  The mind is a powerful tool which can alter or even invent memories to suit whatever is needed.  But Richard (and all of us readers) knows that she ISN'T a fabricated memory but a real person who has influenced virtually everyone who also knows and accepts Richard as the Lord Rahl.<br /><br />This is a serious problem.  But it isn't Richard's only problem.  Jagang's Dark Sisters have also conjured up a beast from the very Underworld that seeks to hunt him methodically until he has been killed.  It neither thinks, sleeps nor does it even care how long it will take.  But by all accounts, it is quite possibly the most vile and evil abomination since the Keeper himself.  It is attracted by Richard's use of Magic, even calling upon the Sword of Truth immediately tells the Beastwhere he is.  Even the casual reading of Prophecy forces Richard to unknowingly use his Gift, and can bring the Beast to kill him, and in so doing, kill virtually all around him.<br /><br />Nobody believes this Kahlan exists...the Order is after hm with a creature of incredible complexity which seems to be unstoppable even to all who encounter it.  Richard certainly has his hands full with 'Chainfire'.  All of the characters you have been missing finally come together well in this novel.  Nathan, Anne, Verna, Zedd, Cara and Nicci.  About the one person we don't get to see much of is Kahlan herself.<br /><br />Caution:  Once you get into this tale, you will be hard pressed to put it down until you have reached the frustrating last page which solves almost nothing for us readers.  Well, it does solve one major problem in the book, but I'll let you figure out what that is.  I cannot thank Mr. Goodkind enough for giving me some much needed escape time into his amazing world.  I loved 'Chainfire' more than ALL of his books -- save his first only...which is saying a LOT since it still remains one of my all-time favorite Fantasy books.  'Chainfire' may well be a much better plotted and written story, but for nostalgia reasons only I still rank his first book as the best...but that could change upon subsequent readings.<br /><br />In short: Absolutely BRILLIANT Storytelling.  I wouldn't change a single word -- except to actually add the conclusion to this tale as quickly as possible because waiting another 2 years for the entire tale to be finished will be totally maddening.he Beast where he is.  Even the casual reading of Prophecy forces Richard to unknowingly use his Gift, and can bring the Beast to kill him, and in so doing, kill virtually all around him.   <br /> <br />Nobody believes this Kahlan exists...the Order is after hm with a creature of incredible complexity which seems to be unstoppable even to all who encounter it.  Richard certainly has his hands full with 'Chainfire'.  All of the characters you have been missing finally come together well in this novel.  Nathan, Anne, Verna, Zedd, Cara and Nicci.  About the one person we don't get to see much of is Kahlan herself.   <br /> <br />Caution:  Once you get into this tale, you will be hard pressed to put it down until you have reached the frustrating last page which solves almost nothing for us readers.  Well, it does solve one major problem in the book, but I'll let you figure out what that is.  I cannot thank Mr. Goodkind enough for giving me some much needed escape time into his amazing world.  I loved 'Chainfire' more than ALL of his books -- save his first only...which is saying a LOT since it still remains one of my all-time favorite Fantasy books.  'Chainfire' may well be a much better plotted and written story, but for nostalgia reasons only I still rank his first book as the best...but that could change upon subsequent readings. <br /> <br />In short: Absolutely BRILLIANT Storytelling.  I wouldn't change a single word -- except to actually add the conclusion to this tale as quickly as possible because waiting another 2 years for the entire tale to be finished will be totally maddening.	2005-02-11
US	47950934	RMZMCALSTMBQF	0439358078	667539744	Harry Potter And The Order Of The Phoenix	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Brilliant, if not action-packed adventure at Hogwarts...	After 4 absolutely adventure-filled trips to Hogwarts, I must admit, upon first finishing Order of the Phoenix, I was a bit miffed at the lack of adrenaline-pumping thrills that flowed with the plot.  But upon further reflection, I believe it to be one of the best plotted of the whole lot so far.<br /><br />As usual, we begin with poor Harry at the Dursley's, who once again are making life only slightly better than dealing with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.  Harry is quite a bit more brave in dealing with Uncle Vernon and dim-witted Dudley, especially since they still believe Sirius Black to be a cold-blooded murderer whom Harry can call upon at a moments notice for help.  But when Dudley and Harry are suddenly attacked by Dementors, out in the open in a decidedly Muggle neighborhood, Harry is forced to use magic to defend himself -- even though use of magic outside of Hogwarts is strictly forbidden.  OR, can one use self-defense as a successful defense under such circumstances?  The Ministry of Magic immediately dispatches an owl with a message reminding Harry that he is now expelled from school and must forfeit his wand -- only to send another owl (much to Uncle Vernon's dismay) telling Harry he will instead have the chance to give his side of the story in front of the entire Wizard Council.<br /><br />I was expecting the action to literally take off from here, but in fact if anything, it slows down.  But that isn't necessarily a bad thing.  In the process of getting TO the action (which doesn't really come until about the last 100 pages -- oh and it's a doosy) we get to find out a LOT of information in regards to Harry and what is going on around him, his life, his friends, Sirius Black and a whole host of other characters, some new, some old.  Professor Dumbledore is noticeably absent from a rather large portion of Phoenix (other than the beginning he makes a tiny cameo as Harry's Lawyer, of sorts, and again at the end), which made me really relish his appearance when he finally does manage to show up.<br /><br />The actual Order of the Phoenix is the shadow organization formed by Dumbledore to fight against Lord Voldemort's return.  The really interesting part about fighting the Dark Lord this time is that unlike last time while he was in power, this time nobody seems to want to accept the fact that he is in fact BACK at ALL.  There seems to be fewer and fewer people Harry can trust, and for the first time ever, being back at the Dursley's seems to be preferable to being at Hogwarts.  Many at school now question how Cedric Diggory died.  Nobody actually saw it, except for Harry, and since the Daily Prophet seems to be doing its darndest to disprove and discredit Harry (and Dumbledore) at every turn, people begin to murmur about whether or not Cedric was killed by Voldemort or was it Harry himself who did the deed?  This seems to be a bigger and bigger hurdle for Harry to deal with, especially since puberty is in full swing and Cho seems to be confusing and complicating the issue on a daily basis.<br /><br />Many have faulted JK Rowling for turning Harry into a whiner in the pages of Order, but I for one disagree.  Let me explain: Do you know ANY teenager who DOESN'T whine, even if a little?  Now, just for a second, imagine a world similar to Harry's and tell me the average teen wouldn't go stark raving mad if exposed to even a tiny portion of what Harry is faced with?  I dare say that JK Rowling has hit the proverbial nail on the head here.  Also, having read several reviews before tackling the book, I was expecting Harry's ranting to be considerably more than what I actually found, so for me it was pretty much a non-issue.<br /><br />As I mentioned earlier, the action leaves a lot to be desired, and if you just cannot get over the fact that this book has very little, when compared with the previous 4 novels, you may well dislike Order of the Phoenix a lot.  I however found it enjoyable simply because the plot, albeit slow, gave us a LOT of background info and plenty of other storyline that it more than made up for the lack of thrills & chills.  Now keep in mind the last 100 pages or so flies with the speed of a Tomahawk Missle with action aplenty happening in the very Ministry of Magic itself.  It is no surprise by now that a prominent character passes in Order -- but the way it happened makes me question whether or not it was permanent.  Heck, in the world of fantasy I cannot even rule out Harry's parents somehow coming back from the dead now can I?  Let's just say it was almost too much of an anti-climax for me to fully accept it as a done deal.  But either way, I found the entire 5th year at Hogwarts to be one of absolute joy to read.  I, as are millions around the world, anxiously waiting for year 6 wondering just what is in store for Harry next.<br /><br />Absolutely brilliant writing.  Another example of the way great stories SHOULD be told., albeit slow, gave us a LOT of background info and plenty of other storyline that it more than made up for the lack of thrills & chills.  Now keep in mind the last 100 pages or so flies with the speed of a Tomahawk Missle with action aplenty happening in the very Ministry of Magic itself.  It is no surprise by now that a prominent character passes in Order -- but the way it happened makes me question whether or not it was permanent.  Heck, in the world of fantasy I cannot even rule out Harry's parents somehow coming back from the dead now can I?  Let's just say it was almost too much of an anti-climax for me to fully accept it as a done deal.  But either way, I found the entire 5th year at Hogwarts to be one of absolute joy to read.  I, as are millions around the world, anxiously waiting for year 6 wondering just what is in store for Harry next.   <br /> <br />Absolutely brilliant writing.  Another example of the way great stories SHOULD be told.	2005-02-03
US	47950934	RSONXO4TDZVUU	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A worthy successor to year 1 -- brilliant!	Like so many adults, I shifted myself away from reading the Harry Potter series simply because it had been placed in the 'Childrens' category.  I certainly missed out on plenty.  The only GOOD thing about waiting so long before attempting to read the series is that unlike many who began reading about Harry's exploits several years ago, I was fortunate that 5 of the novels are already written and I get to breeze through as fast as I can read them.<br /><br />In every way year 2 at Hogwarts is better than the first, which is saying a lot since I found the first book to be wonderful.  Harry as usual cannot wait to be rid of the Muggle world in which he has been trapped in for most of his life, and especially when he has to deal with the Dursley's on a day-to-day basis.  Before we know it, Harry is visited by Dobby the House Elf, for reasons unknown.  Dobby refuses to reveal this information -- however he does slip certain details which forces him to punish himself, and in so doing, setting Harry up to be punished by Uncle Vernon.  After a narrow escape in the Weasley's flying Ford, Harry settles in for the remaining time before school begins with Ron's family living the ultimate Wizard lifestyle -- at least to Harry.  Before much else can transpire, it's back to the Hogwarts Express at track Nine and Three-Quarters...only Ron and Harry discover the passageway blocked for some odd reason.  Not thinking things through enough, they use the flying Ford to catch up with the train, and it all ends in the Whomping Willow, to which Ron & Harry narrowly escape, and Ron's wand is broken...a detail which factors into the storyline later on.<br /><br />Odd things are happening at Hogwarts this year.  The new Defense Against the Dark Arts Teacher is none other than one of the most famous Wizards alive, Gilderoy Lockhart.  He is basically nothing more than a glorified know-it-all with an insatiable appetite for publicity, who despite having published many works on his incredible encounters with danger, knows virtually nothing about the Dark Arts, nor it would seem on how to be an ordinary Wizard at all.  Draco Malfoy is up to his usual bag of annoying tricks, no surprise there.  But before we catch our breath, the writing on the wall becomes apparent...literally.  Someone is getting ready to open the fabled Chamber of Secrets.  All of the teachers, from Dumbledore on down attempt to calm the students by assuring them the Chamber, if its real, poses no threat to anyone...but before long, people begin having terrible accidents.<br /><br />To make a long story short, I found the rich detail about how the Chamber came into being, the Secret Diary of Tom Riddle and the creature locked within the bowels of Hogwarts to be quite satisfying.  If you found the movie entertaining, do yourself a HUGE favor and check out the book because like virtually any novel turned into a movie, so much is left out that the journey along the way is sometimes spoiled.  Plus, according to Ms. Rowling herself, Harry's 2nd Year at Hogwarts is so very connected to events which will happen later that if you do NOT read it, you are truly cheating yourself.  Can you pick up on the clues she left behind?  To be honest, I'm still searching for them, but I'm sure they will become more and more obvious as the series progresses.  Kudos to Ms. Rowling and a series which has turned out to be not just a big deal, but an incredible phenomenon which will no doubt last through the generations.  Storytelling as it SHOULD be.le encounters with danger, knows virtually nothing about the Dark Arts, nor it would seem on how to be an ordinary Wizard at all.  Draco Malfoy is up to his usual bag of annoying tricks, no surprise there.  But before we catch our breath, the writing on the wall becomes apparent...literally.  Someone is getting ready to open the fabled Chamber of Secrets.  All of the teachers, from Dumbledore on down attempt to calm the students by assuring them the Chamber, if its real, poses no threat to anyone...but before long, people begin having terrible accidents. <br /> <br />To make a long story short, I found the rich detail about how the Chamber came into being, the Secret Diary of Tom Riddle and the creature locked within the bowels of Hogwarts to be quite satisfying.  If you found the movie entertaining, do yourself a HUGE favor and check out the book because like virtually any novel turned into a movie, so much is left out that the journey along the way is sometimes spoiled.  Plus, according to Ms. Rowling herself, Harry's 2nd Year at Hogwarts is so very connected to events which will happen later that if you do NOT read it, you are truly cheating yourself.  Can you pick up on the clues she left behind?  To be honest, I'm still searching for them, but I'm sure they will become more and more obvious as the series progresses.  Kudos to Ms. Rowling and a series which has turned out to be not just a big deal, but an incredible phenomenon which will no doubt last through the generations.  Storytelling as it SHOULD be.	2005-02-03
US	47950934	RWX3WZRS2YMO8	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Is ANYONE truly surprised that this book is GREAT?	After having put off attempting to read the Harry Potter books for several years now, I have become a whole-hearted supporter of these amazingly creative and entertaining novels.  Originally I felt they were childrens books, and therefore I wasn't going to bother myself with reading literature below my intellectual level -- awww, that's a bunch of hogwash!  Any way you wanna slice it, J.K. Rowling knows how to write really fun and gripping storylines.  Want proof?  Read the Goblet of Fire.<br /><br />More so than in any of the previous 3 books, the Goblet of Fire is a very pivotal point in Harry's schooling as a Wizard at Hogwarts.  Harry and all the regular's (Ron, Hermione and all the rest) start off by attending the Quidditch World Cup.  What a wonderful way to get the story off and running.  I particularly enjoyed the details behind those who attempt to dress as Muggles, and fail miserably.  VERY enjoyable.  Of course a few things happen to turn the entire event into chaos shortly after the game is completed.  How do these events weigh in on events to happen later on?  Read and find out.<br /><br />Shortly after arriving at Hogwarts, Professor Dumbledore informs the school that the usual Quidditch competition between the Houses will be suspended -- in order to host the Tri-Wizard Tournament.  An event which hasn't happened in over a century.  Why?  Read and find out.  There are two other Schools like Hogwarts that are sending a delegation to compete in the Tourney, but only ONE representative from each school will be chosen by the impartial Goblet Of Fire.  Anyone wishing to enter and represent their respective school is welcome -- IF you are at least 17 years old.  Which immediately rules out Harry...or DOES it?  Somehow, against all of the spells conjured up to counter such an event, the best representative from each school is chosen...and then suddenly the Goblet spits out a totally UNEXPECTED FOURTH name: Harry Potter!  Of course people immediately begin to cry foul because this unfairly places Hogwarts at a distinct advantage with TWO competitors while the other two schools have just one.  It also begs the question: How did Harry's name get put into the Goblet with all of the spells cast specifically to stop such an event from happening?  And why does Ron want to know why Harry insists on lying about HOW he managed to get his name into the Goblet, especially how he did it behind his back?  This causes a brief strife between the two friends, but before long, all is back as it should be -- except Harry cannot find a way OUT of competing.  Once your name has been chosen, there is NO WAY OUT.  It is a binding magical contract that one must continue, or die trying.  Oh, did I mention that one of the reasons why the Tournament hadn't been run for over a century were a result of too many deaths?  Yeah, that is kind of an important side-note.<br /><br />Add to all this Harry's increasing interest in the opposite sex and the fact that Voldemort (sorry, am I not supposed to say his name, too?) makes a particularly nasty opening with wormtail at the beginning of the novel, and you've got a story that literally explodes with detail and depth on virtually every single page.  What do all of these facts have in common?  I also particularly enjoyed the side-story of Hermione attempting to free all of the House Elves because of their obvious enslavement is against everything a good Wizard or Witch believes.  To be honest, there isn't anything NOT to like in this 4th installment in Harry's adventures at Hogwarts.  It has everything one could want, and THEN SOME.  I especially enjoyed the fact that even at such an extreme length compared to the first 3 books, J.K. Rowling managed to make it all entertaining and worthwhile.  Not a wasted page in the entire novel...at least not to me.<br /><br />If you have put off or outright denied yourself the chance to read these books simply because like myself you thought they were for children, STOP IT -- NOW.  Start one today, and trust me, it won't take long for YOU to become hooked, too.  Nobody was more surprised than me -- oh, and my children, that I finally got around to reading what everyone else had been reading for quite some time.  Bravo once again for another triumph and (in my opinion) the best Potter book to date.  Why?  READ AND FIND OUT.P IT -- NOW.  Start one today, and trust me, it won't take long for YOU to become hooked, too.  Nobody was more surprised than me -- oh, and my children, that I finally got around to reading what everyone else had been reading for quite some time.  Bravo once again for another triumph and (in my opinion) the best Potter book to date.  Why?  READ AND FIND OUT.	2005-01-03
US	47950934	R3RD8UKUNWFM0V	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	5	5	N	N	okay, OKAY!!  I'm finally HOOKED -- at age 38...	Call me prejudiced against women authors, but I have read so few novels by woman that I actually enjoyed that I virtually refused to even attempt Harry Potter.  Add to that I felt these were books for children, and my opinion was FINAL. . .or so I thought.<br /><br />I have resisted again and again the urge to pick up one of these novels and to be honest, I can't really tell you why, but just last week I decided that I would go ahead and give it a go.  I am now partially through 'The Goblet of Fire' and I am entirely addicted as though a junkie on the worst of drugs available.  What can I say?  I'd go over details of the plot, but with in excess of 2,000 reviews, I am certain hundreds have done a better job than I can of summarizing the story.  I am here for one reason only: to encourage the hold-outs to finally give in and take the plunge into the world of Wizard's and Witchcraft at Hogwarts.  DON'T be stubborn like me.  The only real plus for me is that I get to read the bulk of the novels straight through without having to wait for the next volume, but that won't excuse me from having to wait for novels 6 & 7 like the rest of you.<br /><br />One thing about the subject matter of the stories: I am absolutely dumbfounded at the number of people who have bashed these novels as Satanic, the vast majority of which have never even cracked a single page of any of the books.  This proves beyond a shadow of a doubt the incredible ignorance that permeates our society today.  Where are these same protestors against such vile evil stories such as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs?  How about the evil of countless children stories printed or filmed over the years that should be viewed just as horrible as Harry Potter, but aren't?  What about the show Bewitched?  Where were these same people protesting when Samantha wiggled her nose and turned her husband into something weird?  Is there a difference between Bewitched and Harry Potter?  Aside from Harry Potter being infinitely BETTER, not really.  They both feature Witches and Warlocks/Wizards and for those who believe that reading these novels will actually give anyone who attempts it the ability to alter the physical structure of another human being qualifies them for immediate boarding in the nearest asylum.  I have never once met a child that doesn't fully comprehend these stories are FICTION, and written for the pure enjoyment of the readers.  Honestly, anyone who believes Harry Potter is bad for children really needs to have a check-up from the neck-up.<br /><br />Okay, off my soapbox.  I suppose it IS true that reading these books does stuff to you.  Now I can better understand my childrens absolute fascination with J.K. Rowling.  One other very interesting side note to reading these books: As a parent, it has given me some really special time talking to my children in depth about these novels and the attraction it has for those of us who read them.  Nobody is more surprised that I have read these books than my 16 and 12 year olds.  To think their old man can carry on a conversation -- at length mind you -- about Harry Potter...?  Well it has really been a special plus to me and my children my having finally picked up Harry Potter.  I recommend to ANY parent who has a child reading this series, go ahead and give it a shot -- you just might find some common ground with your kids, and getting closer to them has GOT to be worth picking up one of the books, right?ely BETTER, not really.  They both feature Witches and Warlocks/Wizards and for those who believe that reading these novels will actually give anyone who attempts it the ability to alter the physical structure of another human being qualifies them for immediate boarding in the nearest asylum.  I have never once met a child that doesn't fully comprehend these stories are FICTION, and written for the pure enjoyment of the readers.  Honestly, anyone who believes Harry Potter is bad for children really needs to have a check-up from the neck-up. <br /> <br />Okay, off my soapbox.  I suppose it IS true that reading these books does stuff to you.  Now I can better understand my childrens absolute fascination with J.K. Rowling.  One other very interesting side note to reading these books: As a parent, it has given me some really special time talking to my children in depth about these novels and the attraction it has for those of us who read them.  Nobody is more surprised that I have read these books than my 16 and 12 year olds.  To think their old man can carry on a conversation -- at length mind you -- about Harry Potter...?  Well it has really been a special plus to me and my children my having finally picked up Harry Potter.  I recommend to ANY parent who has a child reading this series, go ahead and give it a shot -- you just might find some common ground with your kids, and getting closer to them has GOT to be worth picking up one of the books, right?	2004-12-27
US	47950934	R19AWU3BJ8TI28	0399152598	742608578	Black Wind (A Dirk Pitt Novel, No. 18)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bravo!!  A story that would make Papa Clive Proud!	It is no surprise to a large percentage of Clive Cussler fans that Clive has been getting ready for semi-retirement for a few years now, and grooming his son to take his place as the new Grand Master of Adventure Fiction.  I have to tell you, I was VERY skeptical that lightning could strike twice in the Cussler family.  However, I must admit I was flat out W-R-O-N-G.  I am also happy I was, too.<br /><br />As any typical Cussler story goes, the beginning takes us on a mini time-traveling visit back to the end of World War II, where an increasingly desperate Japanese Military is contemplating an attack on US Soil that we'll not soon forget, and one that very well could turn the tide of the war.  A specially equipped submarine leaves on a clandestine trip to the West Coast of the United States carrying the Black Wind, a particularly nasty virulent plague.  Unfortunately, destiny takes a turn for the history books, which records no such attack was ever made.  Why?  Read and you'll find out.<br /><br />Jump ahead to the present when Dirk Jr. (pretty much the center stage for this Pitt novel) ends up being in the right place at the right time and saves, who else? A Beautiful woman.  He also stumbles upon a plot that makes the original Japanese plan of releasing the Black Wind look like an experiment by amateurs.  Who exactly IS the bad guy working for?  What are his ultimate plans, and why is he willing to kill literally millions of innocent people in order to achieve his goals?  I doubt the premise for this tale is even remotely possible -- however as unstable as some of the current world leaders are, you can't necessarily rule it out -- regardless of how outlandish it may seem.<br /><br />A chilling plot mixed with the Grand Adventure patented by Clive the Mighty, and continued in fine form by his son, Dirk.  I find myself eagerly waiting for the next Dirk Pitt Jr story and must admit that all things considered, Black Wind was better than the previous 2 Pitt novels -- combined.  Simply fine brain candy, and when it comes to adventure tales that take me away for a few hours of pure entertainment, if Cussler's name is on front, you can bet it'll soon be in MY reading room.  One of the few sure bet's in this life.ls -- combined.  Simply fine brain candy, and when it comes to adventure tales that take me away for a few hours of pure entertainment, if Cussler's name is on front, you can bet it'll soon be in MY reading room.  One of the few sure bet's in this life.	2004-12-06
US	47950934	R3JDNE0IZLIK16	0345456696	996145031	Tatooine Ghost (Star Wars)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	ALMOST as good as Timothy Zahn's stuff...almost...	I have to admit, I've had this book for quite some time, and it was only recently that I picked it up and started to give it the attention that the bulk of reviewers here at amazon said it deserved.  I am quite thankful I did.<br /><br />This is (as far as I know) the first book that takes place after Return of the Jedi which also incorporates information from Episode's I & II.  Sure, just because it includes this info doesn't mean it'll be good, but Mr. Denning does it justice, at least in my opinion.  'Tatooine Ghost' centers on the search for a piece of Alderranian artwork called Killik Twilight which is scheduled to go on the auction block on Tatooine, Han & Leia hire some less than scrupulous aliens to purchase the painting for them, hoping to keep their identities a secret for fear of catching the Imperial's attention.  The vague reference to Grand Admiral Thrawn is quite obvious for those who have read any of Timothy Zahn's novels.<br /><br />Where 'Tatooine's Ghost' really takes off is when Leia comes across a holocube of the only human to ever win the Boonta Eve Podrace, namely her Father, Anakin Skywalker.  Leia goes through quite a bit of soul-searching within the pages of this novel being forced to come to terms with the fact that not only was she the daughter of one of the biggest monsters in Glactic History, but also that Darth Vader was once a cute little slave-boy who by winning the Boonta Eve Classic and gaining his own freedom, inspired many to aspire to bigger and better things.  Darth Vader just COULDN'T have been a cute, inspiring young child now could he?  Wasn't he always a tyrant bent on domination?  Apparently not, and this is what Leia struggles with.  She also comes across her Grandmothers holo-journal which she is keeping for recently freed Anakin in the hopes that she will be able to give it to him some day.  Of course he never receives it, and the rest is Star Wars History.  The insights that not only Leia becomes familiar with, but also the reader make 'Tatooine Ghost' an above-average Star Wars novel.<br /><br />Denning captures rather well the 'Feel' of the Star Wars Universe in 'Ghost'.  I haven't read all of the novels based on Star Wars, but I have read my fair share, and it seems to me that the vast majority of them do not manage to capture the reality of the movies well enough to convince me that I'm not just reading a story with characters that just happen to be named Han, Luke & Leia.  Timothy Zahn is still the King in this arena, but Troy Denning has certainly hit a home run with this tale.  If any Star Wars author wishes to give Zahn a boot off his Star Wars throne, I'd be willing to wager a few New Republic Credits that Denning is the only author in print today who could pull it off.  But that would require a few more novels...so, how about it, Troy?  Let's get writing, and quick!ut also the reader make 'Tatooine Ghost' an above-average Star Wars novel.  <br /> <br />Denning captures rather well the 'Feel' of the Star Wars Universe in 'Ghost'.  I haven't read all of the novels based on Star Wars, but I have read my fair share, and it seems to me that the vast majority of them do not manage to capture the reality of the movies well enough to convince me that I'm not just reading a story with characters that just happen to be named Han, Luke & Leia.  Timothy Zahn is still the King in this arena, but Troy Denning has certainly hit a home run with this tale.  If any Star Wars author wishes to give Zahn a boot off his Star Wars throne, I'd be willing to wager a few New Republic Credits that Denning is the only author in print today who could pull it off.  But that would require a few more novels...so, how about it, Troy?  Let's get writing, and quick!	2004-11-22
US	47950934	R3201A0FCIEME8	0060596503	479838228	Whirlwind: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fantastic!  Even BETTER than Vertical Run...	I have been waiting for Joseph Garber to write something else for quite a few years now, and he has rewarded us fans of 'Vertical Run' with a truly fantastic yarn.  I knew I had to have this book the moment I saw it on the bookshelf and I was NOT disappointed at all!<br /><br />'Whirlwind' is simply put a novel about Full Scale Retribution.  Charlie McKenzie was double crossed by his own government, specifically one person, and as a result, did a stint in prison, lost his pension, his good name, and worst of all, his wife passed away while he was serving time.  One thing that Charlie has NOT lost is his incredible patience.  One day he KNEW they would come knocking on his door needing his services again, and when they did, he'd be ready.  Well that day has finally arrived.  The man single handedly responsible for ruining his life has come to ask -- no, BEG for Charlie's services.<br /><br />The irony of the entire situation is not lost on Charlie, and he milks it for all he can.  The one thing that Charlie is also certain of, is that Sam (the government official with delusions of gaining the Main chair in the oval office) will make an attempt to betray him yet again.  Charlie manages to videotape an encounter with Sam where he trips up and admits to several naughty acts in the past, and soliciting Charlie to find and kill a Russian spy who has stolen plans for 'Whirlwind'.  What Sam does NOT know, is that Irina, the Russian spy he is trying to find has NO IDEA what she has taken, nor does she have the slightest clue to what lengths the United States Government will go to in order to retrieve it.  All Charlie wants is pure revenge against Sam, and a chance to set things right with his own conscience.<br /><br />Charlie is without a doubt one of my all-time favorite protagonists in all of modern fiction.  His sense of humor, and how he outwits Irina on virtually every turn she makes to how he deduces exactly WHAT Whirlwind actually is, and why it is worth so much to America, this character is just brilliant.  He says and does things to Sam that virtually ALL employees would love to say and do to our bosses at one time or another.  Joseph Garber obviously put a lot into the pacing and plotting of this thriller, and it shows.  Just a great example of what a fun fictional thriller really OUGHT to be (in my opinion).  I absolutely LOVED every moment of 'Whirlwind' and fervently hope that Mr. Garber steps up the pace and doesn't make us wait quite so long for his next novel.h to America, this character is just brilliant.  He says and does things to Sam that virtually ALL employees would love to say and do to our bosses at one time or another.  Joseph Garber obviously put a lot into the pacing and plotting of this thriller, and it shows.  Just a great example of what a fun fictional thriller really OUGHT to be (in my opinion).  I absolutely LOVED every moment of 'Whirlwind' and fervently hope that Mr. Garber steps up the pace and doesn't make us wait quite so long for his next novel.	2004-09-28
US	47950934	R1E2TRRG0TGRG5	0312875584	790178071	Resurrection (The Domain Trilogy)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fantastic read -- however a bit too graphic for teens...	First off I am absolutely stumped at the connection that some have made between 'Resurrection' and the 'Left Behind' series.  What the...?!?  There is NO similarity whatsoever -- other than they both deal with the end of the world -- trust me, no matter HOW close that may sound, the novels couldn't be any more different.<br /><br />I have been a LONG time fan of Steve Alten, ever since I discovered 'MEG' I have devoured each and every one of his novels.  As you by now already know, 'Resurrection' is a sequel to 'Domain', which ranks to this day as one of THE most researched novels I have ever read.  It is also easily one of the most creative.  To be able to connect a meteor crash on earth with the pyramids of Egypt, Stonehenge and just about every other ancient massive construction known to man -- regardless of where they may be located, is nothing short of incredible.  However, the MAJOR difference between the original and this novel is that one takes us on an incredible journey back in time and back into the present, and the other looks primarily towards the future.  No longer are we dissecting the journals of Julius Gabriel and the Mayan prophecy of the end of the world in 2012, but we are now focusing specifically on Michael Gabriel's twin sons, and their prophetic destiny to save the earth once again, just like their father did before.  Let me be brutally honest:  this novel is quite complicated, and if you read and place it on the shelf for a few days, it may be difficult to pick up where you left off and keep everything going along together without any problems.  However long it takes you to finish this novel -- it IS worth it.<br /><br />One more VERY critical thing to remember before starting this book:  there are several passages that go into graphic sexual descriptions, assault and rape.  It left a particularly bad taste in my mouth, mainly because I felt the story could have made just as large an impact without going into such extreme detail.  Steve does this for a specific purpose in giving us a better understanding of what shapes the character, Lilith and a more inside view of how she comes to do certain things -- but I feel deep down it just went a bit too far.  I do not enjoy thinking about those types of things at ALL, so why would I want to read about it?  Even though I enjoyed 'Resurrection' and very much look forward to the trilogy conclusion in 'Phobos', that doesn't mean that the entire journey has to be completely perfect.  On Mr. Alten's side, I see why he did what he did, I just would have toned it down some, that's all.<br /><br />With that aside, this is an amazing journey worth taking.  Some of what I enjoyed the most about this novel was the incredible creativity that Steve took in painting the picture of the future.  Some of what he envisions will happen sound down right incredible, some of it a bit scary along the lines of Big Brother but it was ALWAYS facinating.  In particular the idea of virtually eliminating racism by beginning the trend of dyeing your skin to exotic colors so that knowing a persons ethnic background was almost impossible to pinpoint from a basic first impression.  The creative swearing was quite interesting, too.  There is a LOT to enjoy in 'Resurrection', there really IS.  It takes an amazing creative mind to be able to come up with a plot as wild as this, and tie it all together as well as Steve has been able to do.  Kudos once again to one of the most underrated authors in print today.  If you haven't read Steve Alten before, give yourself a little leeway, and just DO IT.  You WILL be glad you did.  I know I am.eve does this for a specific purpose in giving us a better understanding of what shapes the character, Lilith and a more inside view of how she comes to do certain things -- but I feel deep down it just went a bit too far.  I do not enjoy thinking about those types of things at ALL, so why would I want to read about it?  Even though I enjoyed 'Resurrection' and very much look forward to the trilogy conclusion in 'Phobos', that doesn't mean that the entire journey has to be completely perfect.  On Mr. Alten's side, I see why he did what he did, I just would have toned it down some, that's all. <br /> <br />With that aside, this is an amazing journey worth taking.  Some of what I enjoyed the most about this novel was the incredible creativity that Steve took in painting the picture of the future.  Some of what he envisions will happen sound down right incredible, some of it a bit scary along the lines of Big Brother but it was ALWAYS facinating.  In particular the idea of virtually eliminating racism by beginning the trend of dyeing your skin to exotic colors so that knowing a persons ethnic background was almost impossible to pinpoint from a basic first impression.  The creative swearing was quite interesting, too.  There is a LOT to enjoy in 'Resurrection', there really IS.  It takes an amazing creative mind to be able to come up with a plot as wild as this, and tie it all together as well as Steve has been able to do.  Kudos once again to one of the most underrated authors in print today.  If you haven't read Steve Alten before, give yourself a little leeway, and just DO IT.  You WILL be glad you did.  I know I am.	2004-08-30
US	47950934	R2F1LE7NONE6RU	0060009667	148654727	Tidal Rip	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Joe Buff -- fast becoming THE Submarine author to watch...	It pretty much began with Clancy's 'Hunt For Red October' and shortly afterwards Michael DiMercurio took the Submarine baton and ran (is still running, actually) with it.  Not long ago Patrick Robinson began his own Sub series (sorry, they just didn't *do it* for me) but it has been Joe Buff that has really made this particular techno-genre his own.<br /><br />For those familiar with Buff's previous novels (Deep Sound Channel & Crush Depth) you know that a new Axis Power has formed between chiefly Germany and the newly white empowered South Africa against chiefly the United Kingdom and the United States.  This is no ordinary war, either.  It is a battlefield where the use of tactical nuclear weapons is an almost daily event.  Somewhere in the back of my mind I wonder just how many nuclear weapons we have to dispense during this war because all those involved seem to be using them with reckless abandon.  The war has created a major breakdown in shipping throughout the Atlantic, which has brought our story to several interesting and above all else, exciting missions in this series thus far.  One item I have noticed that many readers did NOT enjoy was the passive love story arc that began with the first novel.  Thankfully this storyline has been left firmly in the background of 'Tidal Rip'.<br /><br />The action is swift and plentiful, and once again, amazingly realistic.  A good friend of mine spent several years in the Silent Service and assured me that Joe Buff was the Real Deal when it came to the realism of how a future naval nuclear war might happen.  Of course a lot is pure speculation, however given the circumstances that Buff has created starting with his first novel, the action of both sides is amazingly accurate.  For those techno-thriller fans who enjoy their warfare on the realistic side, you simply cannot ignore these books.  The plot is in MY opinion, quite compelling despite what some of the so-called 'professional' reviewers have written.  Suffice it to say that if you enjoy tales of war written from the perspective of a submariner and you HAVEN'T read Joe Buff yet, you certainly have some great stuff to look forward to.  Fine brain candy, and a chilling scenario which I fervently hope does NOT come to pass.e it to say that if you enjoy tales of war written from the perspective of a submariner and you HAVEN'T read Joe Buff yet, you certainly have some great stuff to look forward to.  Fine brain candy, and a chilling scenario which I fervently hope does NOT come to pass.	2004-08-17
US	47950934	R3DMAPHR0SN1NW	0060580666	65418970	Sandstorm (Sigma Force)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Indiana Jones + The Mummy + a touch of Sci-Fi = FUN!!	WOW! James Rollins has hit the homerun of his career with 'Sandstorm'.  Even though 'Ice Hunt' was a great action/adventure thriller, I for some reason (that still eludes me to this day) just didn't enjoy it with the usual amount of excitement I have come to expect from this talented Veterinarian turned author...however he totally has one amazing thrill ride with this tale.<br /><br />The novel almost defies a specific genre, bordering on an adventure in the vein of Indiana Jones, the supernatural via The Mummy and add a touch of semi Sci-Fi and well, the results are just spectacular.  Fun from beginning to end, 'Sandstorm' is a surge of adrenaline in written form. The characters are all well-drawn and fleshed out (at least they were for me) and provided just the right amount of just about everything you could want from a novel that is supposed to entertain you.  Action, adventure and a touch of romance, this book has it ALL.<br /><br />What has devastated a chunk of one of the most important historical museums in the world?  Caught on film, the explosion seems to defy a normal explanation, until the theory of anti-matter is brought forth.  Suddenly things begin to make sense, and pieces to a long buried puzzle begin to fall into place.  An expedition to the Arabian penninsula is organized not just to uncover the possibility of a true source of anti-matter, but to also solve a mystery that happened many years ago.<br /><br />Like I said, this novel has virtually something for everyong, including techno-thriller fans.  The absolute best part:  How Rollins manages to tie all the pieces together so well as the story weaves itself into a cohesive mix of adventure, REAL history and thrills.  For fans of Rollins' previous tales, 'Sandstorm' will truly be high on the list of Must Reads this year, and quite possibly his best novel to date.  After reaching the fun climax, I distinctly remember thinking one thing in particular:  Just HOW long will I have to wait for another novel from this guy?  Great, fun stuff.nother novel from this guy?  Great, fun stuff.	2004-08-09
US	47950934	R1OC0EXUE1YGYU	044653143X	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast, Book 5)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Yet ANOTHER winner from Preston & Child...fantastic!	After finishing 'Relic' I was afraid that this amazing writing team had hit their peak with their very first novel, and while it still remains my favorite of their many fantastic books, 'Brimstone' certainly ties with 'The Cabinet of Curiosities' as next on my short list of absolute MUST READ books from these authors.  After a lackluster attempt with 'Still Life With Crows' I was hoping that 'Brimstone' would bring back Agent Pendergast and D'Agosta with something 'extra'.  I'm not sure what exactly that was, but I can tell you they hit a major homerun with this plot.<br /><br />People are dying in and around New York City in a most gruesome manner, and despite what the investigators WANT to believe, it seems more and more likely that Satan has come to claim a few really naughty boys.  Bodies are discovered killed in ways that seem to defy logical explanations, and the scent of Brimstone left over along with an odd hoofprint at the scene of one of the crimes isn't helping to dis-prove the Satan theory, either.<br /><br />As Agent Pendergast and now Sgt. D'Agosta discover in their pursuit of the truth, those who are turning up dead seem to have made some curious Deal with the Devil many years before.  Suddenly the story goes from creepy directly into the paranormal all at lightspeed.  I was worried that the subject matter would sound hokey or cheesy, but Preston & Child handle it absolutely PERFECTLY.  I don't know why I was worried because they managed to pull it off with virtually all of their previous novels, and they have done it again with 'Brimstone'.<br /><br />Perfectly plotted and the pacing is right up there with the best thrillers I have personally read over the years.  I can't tell you how many times a chill ran up my spine as I turned the pages of this mesmerizing tale.  I have always found the writing of this duo to be exceptional, but if you are like me, you really don't get frightened about things you don't honestly believe in -- however for those of you who, like me, really DO believe in Satan, this particular story genuinely CAN terrify you.  I didn't exactly help matters by reading in my living room late at night with just a small lamp by my side.  While I read I took note of each and every tiny sound that I could not identify.  I kept telling myself I was being foolish, but the strangest thing happened then, I realized I honestly could NOT help myself...and I also discovered my house made a great deal of noise at night just sitting there.  I was quite disturbed several times, and without a doubt, I could NOT have asked for a better storyline to keep me entertained and slightly afraid for a few nights.  Kudos to Preston & Child for giving me yet ANOTHER reason to purchase their fantastic novels.  One of their all-time best yet.  WELL worth the price in hardback.  If you are a fan, do yourself a favor, and buy it BEFORE it comes out in paperback -- yes, it's THAT good.se of you who, like me, really DO believe in Satan, this particular story genuinely CAN terrify you.  I didn't exactly help matters by reading in my living room late at night with just a small lamp by my side.  While I read I took note of each and every tiny sound that I could not identify.  I kept telling myself I was being foolish, but the strangest thing happened then, I realized I honestly could NOT help myself...and I also discovered my house made a great deal of noise at night just sitting there.  I was quite disturbed several times, and without a doubt, I could NOT have asked for a better storyline to keep me entertained and slightly afraid for a few nights.  Kudos to Preston & Child for giving me yet ANOTHER reason to purchase their fantastic novels.  One of their all-time best yet.  WELL worth the price in hardback.  If you are a fan, do yourself a favor, and buy it BEFORE it comes out in paperback -- yes, it's THAT good.	2004-08-04
US	47950934	R29IWGD8KOP8Z2	039915177X	170827342	Lost City: From the NUMA Files - Kurt Austin	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Kurt Austin:  the NEW Dirk Pitt??	As a long time Dirk Pitt fan, I was rather skeptical that Cussler could introduce another fictional character that could hold a candle to the greatest fictional adventure hero in print today...but 'Serpent' swayed me from almost the opening page.  If you have read the abysmal Tom Clancy 'Op Center' novels or virtually all books that feature ghost writers attempting to sell a book based on the popularity of otherwise great novelists, you also understand why I was a bit nervous reading Cussler's first co-authored story.  Thankfully Clive did NOT let me down.  The Kurt Austin stories have been wonderful and most have been better than the last 2 Dirk Pitt novels.  Oops!  Yes, I DID write that.  'Valhalla Rising' and 'Trojan Odyssey' have been, shall we say, less than thrilling compared with the bulk of earlier Pitt tales.<br /><br />But the Kurt Austin adventures have been all TOP NOTCH (in MY opinion, anyway).  'Lost City' begins as most Cussler novels do with a trip back a few years, this time we follow a desperate man who escapes just prior to the start of WWI in a monoplane with a host of bad guys in hot pursuit.  He has some very disturbing information and is intent on seeing that it reaches the proper authorities, but too late, he is shot down over a French glacier never to be seen from again -- that is until we jump ahead about 90 years when Kurt is assisting his future love interest in a French lake located (surprise!) just a short hop from the glacier containing our frozen pilot.  Before long the stiff is located and Kurt's lady-friend is called in to assist the recovery, only to be thwarted by a quick visit by an assassin posing as a journalist who steals something from the frozen pilot and entombs the rest underneath the glacier for what looks to be a rather painful death.  But -- NOT if Kurt has anything to do with it.<br /><br />There really isn't any doubt that Kurt will save everyone with just seconds to spare, but this is where the proverbial rubber hits the pavement as far as the story goes.  We next jump to a rather isolated part of the Atlantic Ocean known as 'Lost City' named for the monolithic towering rock formations which resemble prehistoric skyscrapers.  Out here under the ocean a nasty plague is reproducing at an alarming rate and threatens ALL the ocean life on the planet.  What is causing this plague and how can it be stopped, and more importantly, how is this tied together with a bunch of bad guys who desperately want an ancient helmet worn by the frozen pilot?  If you think THAT is a lot of dots to connect, we also have another angle featuring large, red-eyed furry human-like demons that attack the cast and crew of a reality show on an isolated island near the United Kingdom.  Where did they come from and HOW are they connected to the ocean plague and a possible formula for eternal life?  I must admit, 'Lost City' was a bit more on the science fiction side than most of the Cussler/Kemprecos novels, but I STILL enjoyed it from beginning to end.  Great story, and for us die-hard fans of ANYTHING in print by Clive the Mighty, this is a welcome addition to his growing list of wonderful entertaining books.  For me I would classify this as a definite Must Read.hits the pavement as far as the story goes.  We next jump to a rather isolated part of the Atlantic Ocean known as 'Lost City' named for the monolithic towering rock formations which resemble prehistoric skyscrapers.  Out here under the ocean a nasty plague is reproducing at an alarming rate and threatens ALL the ocean life on the planet.  What is causing this plague and how can it be stopped, and more importantly, how is this tied together with a bunch of bad guys who desperately want an ancient helmet worn by the frozen pilot?  If you think THAT is a lot of dots to connect, we also have another angle featuring large, red-eyed furry human-like demons that attack the cast and crew of a reality show on an isolated island near the United Kingdom.  Where did they come from and HOW are they connected to the ocean plague and a possible formula for eternal life?  I must admit, 'Lost City' was a bit more on the science fiction side than most of the Cussler/Kemprecos novels, but I STILL enjoyed it from beginning to end.  Great story, and for us die-hard fans of ANYTHING in print by Clive the Mighty, this is a welcome addition to his growing list of wonderful entertaining books.  For me I would classify this as a definite Must Read.	2004-07-27
US	47950934	R1DRJALHTZNTE0	0765308908	105751497	MEG: Primal Waters	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Steve Alten consistently writes better with each new book...	As with most fans of Steve Alten, I was captured up with his original 'Jaws meets Jurassic Park' novel, 'MEG' several years ago and I have YET to be anything but totally enthralled by ALL of his novels.<br />After penning the sequel, 'The Trench' which didn't receive the respect I feel it deserved, I was beginning to wonder if Steve was stuck writing only one form of book: Big Sharks attacking people -- but then came 'Domain'.  It STILL ranks as one of the most all-out entertaining books I have ever read, and easily the most researched.  WOW!  Steve was FAR from being stuck writing about the same stuff.  Shortly after 'Domain' he wowed me again with the wildly entertaining 'Goliath' (check out the President in that book -- he's my favorite Alten character...) and Steve was fast on his way to becoming one of my Top 5 favorite authors.<br />'Primal Waters' continues Steve's incredible gift of storytelling and breathes new life into the MEG series (which had been doing fine already).  An aging Jonas Taylor is front and center once again in this tale, and gives us the best possible hero in print today, one who is struggling like those of us in the real world, one who most of us can quite literally identify with, at least on some level.  Jonas is on the verge of financial ruin.  His daughter is pushing the limits of his patience, and his wife is concerned about their marriage.  All in all, things have been better.  Just when Jonas is about to throw in the towel, an opportunity becomes available that allows him the chance to get him back into the spotlight (a place he craves to be even though he denies it), even though he believes it to be ultimately beneath him.  A new Reality TV show inspired by 'Survivor' will be filming soon on board a replica of an old Spanish Galleon with a group of Extreme Sport fanatics -- you know, the kind of people who can only get a Rush by genuinely risking their life.<br />Jonas accepts the offer, and reluctantly agrees to bring his daughter along.  Steve takes his time setting the stage for the action that is soon to come, and when it does, as the rubber hits the pavement, the body count begins to mount -- rapidly.  'Primal Waters' features not one, or two, but three separate Meg's.  The original Angel, and a couple of newcomers that put a charge in the story that dramatically increases the excitement-meter of this novel.<br />Whales and other large fish are turning up dead in Puget Sound in Washington and it doesn't take long for experts to determine that Angel is back.  They NEED Jonas Taylor, but he's off filming that Reality Series so they convince his wife to come to Seattle to confirm what they already believe.  In the meantime, down in the Tanaka Lagoon where Angel was kept in captivity for so long, another Meg is trolling around causing havoc.  Alten times the action to work together as one and when the prehistoric sharks begin to hunt, they do so all at once.<br />I was absolutely captivated by this third installment in the MEG series (and Steve assures us that Jonas will return again sometime in the future...) and cannot wait for whatever it is Steve Alten has coming next, no matter WHAT the subject matter is.  Consistently improving with each novel, Alten has earned my respect and more importantly, my hard-earned cash when each of his novels become available.  As someone already said, 'Primal Waters' IS the ultimate Beach Read, but you may wish to read the final chapters wearing a life vest a hundred yards from the shore -- just to be safe.er along.  Steve takes his time setting the stage for the action that is soon to come, and when it does, as the rubber hits the pavement, the body count begins to mount -- rapidly.  'Primal Waters' features not one, or two, but three separate Meg's.  The original Angel, and a couple of newcomers that put a charge in the story that dramatically increases the excitement-meter of this novel.  <br />Whales and other large fish are turning up dead in Puget Sound in Washington and it doesn't take long for experts to determine that Angel is back.  They NEED Jonas Taylor, but he's off filming that Reality Series so they convince his wife to come to Seattle to confirm what they already believe.  In the meantime, down in the Tanaka Lagoon where Angel was kept in captivity for so long, another Meg is trolling around causing havoc.  Alten times the action to work together as one and when the prehistoric sharks begin to hunt, they do so all at once.<br />I was absolutely captivated by this third installment in the MEG series (and Steve assures us that Jonas will return again sometime in the future...) and cannot wait for whatever it is Steve Alten has coming next, no matter WHAT the subject matter is.  Consistently improving with each novel, Alten has earned my respect and more importantly, my hard-earned cash when each of his novels become available.  As someone already said, 'Primal Waters' IS the ultimate Beach Read, but you may wish to read the final chapters wearing a life vest a hundred yards from the shore -- just to be safe.	2004-07-14
US	47950934	R3U8CAWGCGKL83	0385506708	740970669	Death Match: A Novel (Child, Lincoln)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Starts F-A-S-T but slows a bit by the end	I truly enjoyed 'Utopia' quite a bit, and was thrilled when I saw Lincoln Child coming out with solo effort #2.  If 'Utopia' was any indication, I was expecting something really thrilling... and as I started 'Death Match' I just KNEW I had found exactly what I was looking for to fill my reading void.  I must admit Mr. Child has quite a talent for sustained energy, but after a long spell of VERY interesting storytelling, 'Death Match' began to slow down.  This did not bother me in the least -- at FIRST.  Almost EVERY novel has a slow portion or two.  However when things began to shift downward, the pace almost slowed to a crawl compared to the wonderful beginning.<br />'Death Match' has an absolutely brilliant opening chapter, one that literally grabbed me quite rapidly.  It only began to build from there to the point that I (for a while anyway) thought Mr. Child had just about written the perfect Beach Read.  Now I don't wish to come down on 'Death Match' too harshly, because I still enjoyed it quite a bit.  But had I known better about how the pacing dropped off after a couple-hundred pages or so, I would most certainly have enjoyed it more.<br />With that said, the story behind a computer-based Love-Connection business revolves around a company that is so certain of their ability to bring the perfect couples together they quite literally offer a money-back guarantee.  Up front however is a rather stiff fee in order to join 'Eden', the amazing company dedicated to customer service and life-long loving relationships.  Among the thousands of applicants floating around the almost living computer, every once-in-a-while a Supercouple is found, with virtually a 100% compatibility ratio.  Only a small number of Supercouples have been produced in the time Eden has been operating, and these couples are something special to the incredibly dedicated employees.  However, suddenly one of the couples are found dead in an apparent murder/suicide that literally defies ALL logic.  Enter Christopher Lash, former FBI profiler who is brought in to determine how this seemingly perfect couple could meet such a tragic end.  As Lash begins his investigation, he discovers from every single person he interviews that this couple was quite literally PERFECT for each other in every conceivable way.<br />While making the rounds to uncover the truth, word reaches Lash of another Supercouple found under very similar circumstances.  Things begin to spiral out of control rather quickly at this point.  Lash begins to suspect murder, but cannot find ANY evidence to support this theory, because once again, this 2nd couple was as perfect for one another as anyone had ever seen, and ALL evidence again points toward murder/suicide.<br />Many reviewers have pointed that Mr. Child has telegraphed the so-called surprise ending a little too much throughout the story, and while it did NOT come as any kind of a shock to me, and also despite the wheels of action slowing to a snails pace, I still found myself engrossed in this tale.  Both Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston are amazingly talented authors, but I also believe as many others do, they are much like John Lennon and Paul McCartney -- really good separately, but they are MUCH better when they work together.<br />For those who cannot wait until 'Brimstone' hits the shelves, get a quick fix by reading 'Death Match' and check out Douglas Preston's 'Codex', another fun summer Beach Read.Enter Christopher Lash, former FBI profiler who is brought in to determine how this seemingly perfect couple could meet such a tragic end.  As Lash begins his investigation, he discovers from every single person he interviews that this couple was quite literally PERFECT for each other in every conceivable way.  <br />While making the rounds to uncover the truth, word reaches Lash of another Supercouple found under very similar circumstances.  Things begin to spiral out of control rather quickly at this point.  Lash begins to suspect murder, but cannot find ANY evidence to support this theory, because once again, this 2nd couple was as perfect for one another as anyone had ever seen, and ALL evidence again points toward murder/suicide.  <br />Many reviewers have pointed that Mr. Child has telegraphed the so-called surprise ending a little too much throughout the story, and while it did NOT come as any kind of a shock to me, and also despite the wheels of action slowing to a snails pace, I still found myself engrossed in this tale.  Both Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston are amazingly talented authors, but I also believe as many others do, they are much like John Lennon and Paul McCartney -- really good separately, but they are MUCH better when they work together.<br />For those who cannot wait until 'Brimstone' hits the shelves, get a quick fix by reading 'Death Match' and check out Douglas Preston's 'Codex', another fun summer Beach Read.	2004-07-09
US	47950934	R3365NIEAHG9BD	0812577795	150280865	The Kill Zone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A more cerebral &amp; less action filled thriller from Hagberg	One of the MAIN reasons I have gravitated towards novels written by Hagberg is because he knows how to cut out the fat in his techno-thrillers, unlike Tom Clancy who never passes a chance to include reams of useless information in the majority of his otherwise great books.  What is left over is a meaty, action-packed thrill ride.  With the exception of just a couple of novels over the past 8 years or so, I believe Hagberg has become one of the best thriller authors working today.<br />After 'White House' and 'Joshua's Hammer', two of the best examples of techno-thrillers printed in the past decade, we see the next evolution in the roller-coaster career of CIA operative Kirk McGarvey.  The President, who owes Kirk after having literally saved the lives of the First family, has appointed the controversial spy the interim Director of the CIA.  This unwittingly sets in motion a series of events which become the central storyline of 'The Kill Zone'.  Along the way, there are scenes which prepare us for the action which, unfortunately for some is not what fills the bulk of this particular tale.  For those wanting and craving a 'thrills oriented' Hagberg novel, you may be a little disappointed (see many of the reviews), but if you approach this story from a different standpoint, I think it can and should be enjoyed.<br />For those not familiar with the endless amounts of political red tape in Washington, becoming appointed to a position such as CIA Director can certainly seem like the longest most incredibly boring series of events in all of human history -- which I am happy to say Hagberg handles rather well, all things considered.  One other reviewer keenly noticed how Kirk was rather stumped by the ridiculous questions posed to him and felt quite strapped because normally he is so comfortable with solving his problems with whatever weapon is handy at the time.<br />Hagberg takes a lot longer than usual to get to the serious meat of this story, but that doesn't mean that the path we take to get there isn't an interesting one.  On the contrary, after I began to see how he was setting the stage for a major confrontation later on, I began to enjoy the storyline even more.  While not as all-out action-packed as the bulk of his Kirk McGarvey novels of the past, Hagberg has taken a slightly different path which allows for much greater character development and gave him a fantastic opportunity to set the stage for the outcome which will either catch you by surprise or it won't -- it depends who you are.  I was mildly surprised I suppose, not a huge shock, but maybe I missed some clues others had caught.  Overall, I am VERY excited about seeing the further adventures of Kirk McGarvey, and for those who would rather see Hagberg back in Action/Oriented fine form, grab 'By Dawn's Early Light' a truly spectacular submarine techno-thriller which may well be his best novel to date.hat the path we take to get there isn't an interesting one.  On the contrary, after I began to see how he was setting the stage for a major confrontation later on, I began to enjoy the storyline even more.  While not as all-out action-packed as the bulk of his Kirk McGarvey novels of the past, Hagberg has taken a slightly different path which allows for much greater character development and gave him a fantastic opportunity to set the stage for the outcome which will either catch you by surprise or it won't -- it depends who you are.  I was mildly surprised I suppose, not a huge shock, but maybe I missed some clues others had caught.  Overall, I am VERY excited about seeing the further adventures of Kirk McGarvey, and for those who would rather see Hagberg back in Action/Oriented fine form, grab 'By Dawn's Early Light' a truly spectacular submarine techno-thriller which may well be his best novel to date.	2004-05-13
US	47950934	R2UJ5MO7ANZ2RI	0060083263	624926035	Sleeping Beauty (Margolin, Phillip)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Chilling Premise & One Fantastic Read!	For years, some of the best authors around have said one very important fact about writing novels: Write what you KNOW.  So, what IF someone were to draw extensively upon their own experiences and pen an enormously popular novel hailed by readers and critics alike as fantastic...and while attempting to write a follow-up fails miserably because almost everything had already been tapped when writing the first book?  What IF this author's 3rd novel was a murder/mystery, and to continue to write what they KNEW, they actually committed an unspeakable act of violence in order to draw upon this experience -- JUST to write a book?<br />This is the incredibly creative and facinating storyline of Phillip Margolin's 10th novel.  Would an author be so desperate to write that NEXT runaway bestseller that they actually might consider murdering someone JUST for the experience?  As chilling as this premise is, I assure you it is one that will entertain you throughout this incredible page-turner.<br />The novel delves into the mind of someone such as this (thankfully it ISN'T Mr. Margolin himself) and creates quite a thriller indeed.  Young Ashley Spencer is a gifted Soccer athelete whose life becomes literally torn to shreds when Joshua Maxfield rapes and kills her best friend shortly after mortally wounding her Father.  She escapes, only to have this tragedy repeat itself when the same killer takes her Mothers life and nearly kills the Dean of the Oregon Academy, putting her into a coma.<br />Terrified the killer will stop at nothing to hunt her down, Ashley leaves the country hoping never to return unless he is caught and put away for eternity.  Casey Van Meter, the Dean of the Oregon Academy, who was left in a coma following the most recent attack has a twin brother (Miles) who is determined to keep the story in the spotlight by penning a true crime account of these horrific attacks on his sister and Ashley's parents.  Miles is on yet another book tour to promote the re-issue of his novel, 'Sleeping Beauty' when events take a dramatic turn and Ashley is forced out of hiding when a shocking twist to the story unfolds, bringing her back to Portland, all while knowing that serial killer Joshua Maxfield is still on the loose.  The plot twists begin to really mount as the story goes into overdrive at this point.  IS Joshua Maxfield, once an amazingly popular author, but now considered to be a one-hit wonder really desperate enough to risk it all for a chance to pen a new best seller...OR could he be set up by someone who wants everyone to know about their crime, all without having to suffer any of the consequences?  TRUST me, I could reveal a LOT about the intricate plotting of 'Sleeping Beauty' all without really giving away the genuine story, and you would still be caught by the surprise ending -- but don't worry, I won't. I absolutely HATE it when some people review novels here at amazon and spoil it by revealing many of the surprises in some novels.  Don't worry, I won't go into detail about what happens, nor will I reveal the absolute surprise ending to this incredibly entertaining story, but what I WILL do is encourage you to pick up this thriller and clear away some time on your schedule, because Phillip Margolin has the distinct talent for writing novels that while reading you promise yourself you will stop...after the NEXT chapter, and before you know it, you are finished, not necessarily because you wanted to finish, but because you simply HAD to find out how things ended.  Bravo to Phillip for writing my personal favorite since 'Wild Justice'.  Highly recommended.e of his novel, 'Sleeping Beauty' when events take a dramatic turn and Ashley is forced out of hiding when a shocking twist to the story unfolds, bringing her back to Portland, all while knowing that serial killer Joshua Maxfield is still on the loose.  The plot twists begin to really mount as the story goes into overdrive at this point.  IS Joshua Maxfield, once an amazingly popular author, but now considered to be a one-hit wonder really desperate enough to risk it all for a chance to pen a new best seller...OR could he be set up by someone who wants everyone to know about their crime, all without having to suffer any of the consequences?  TRUST me, I could reveal a LOT about the intricate plotting of 'Sleeping Beauty' all without really giving away the genuine story, and you would still be caught by the surprise ending -- but don't worry, I won't. I absolutely HATE it when some people review novels here at amazon and spoil it by revealing many of the surprises in some novels.  Don't worry, I won't go into detail about what happens, nor will I reveal the absolute surprise ending to this incredibly entertaining story, but what I WILL do is encourage you to pick up this thriller and clear away some time on your schedule, because Phillip Margolin has the distinct talent for writing novels that while reading you promise yourself you will stop...after the NEXT chapter, and before you know it, you are finished, not necessarily because you wanted to finish, but because you simply HAD to find out how things ended.  Bravo to Phillip for writing my personal favorite since 'Wild Justice'.  Highly recommended.	2004-04-12
US	47950934	R23WYXVNMEIQZL	067102129X	663353360	Captain's Blood (Star Trek)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	VERY nice follow-up to the so-so Captain's Peril...	I have come to know just a few things in life, and one of the more interesting and surprising facts is that William Shatner, with the calculated help of Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens' write some spectacular Star Trek novels.  It all began with 'The Ashes of Eden' and although not every single novel has been a Grand Slam, they have all been pretty good, I would even go so far as to say above average for Star Trek novels.  'Captain's Peril' was I felt not the best from this trio of authors, but I still enjoyed how the story went from the past to the present and included so many of Trek's major characters, specifically Kirk and Picard.  Shatner's novels have in general been very kind to all the major Trek series characters, from Next Gen to DS9 and even Voyager, and 'Captain's Blood' is no exception.<br />Talk about a tragedy!  The beginning of the novel finds Ambassador Spock assassinated while on a mission of peace.  My first reaction was one of absolute disgust.  How could Shatner DO this to us fans?  But then I have to remember that Spock was killed before and is still with us, so forcing myself to remember that this is science fiction, I continued on knowing that all isn't what it necessarily seems when it comes to this kind of story.  Is he REALLY dead?  THAT is something I will leave up to you to figure out, but I have a feeling you already know.  Again, this story takes place shortly after the events chronicled in Star Trek: Nemesis, which I felt was a VERY under-appreciated Trek Movie, and seamlessly picks up with the problems facing Starfleet, Romulus and Remus.  Featuring an expanded character list which includes Admiral Janeway and the EMH from Voyager, all major Trek fans will find this entry into Trek Lore to be a very satisfying one.  There are MANY plots moving in this rather short story, but never fear, the authors are very much in control of everything, including the outcome.  I now find myself looking forward to the next installment in Shatner's newest trilogy even more so than I was anticipating 'Captain's Blood'.  I think it can be finally said: William Shatner not only was a great iconic leader in the Trek Universe, but he can also write some really great novels as well.  This one is to be savored.  Trek fans rejoice and enjoy.  Mr. Shatner?  By all means, live long and prosper.'s newest trilogy even more so than I was anticipating 'Captain's Blood'.  I think it can be finally said: William Shatner not only was a great iconic leader in the Trek Universe, but he can also write some really great novels as well.  This one is to be savored.  Trek fans rejoice and enjoy.  Mr. Shatner?  By all means, live long and prosper.	2004-03-16
US	47950934	R1S7K20FFYEF4V	0312289588	284552075	Scarecrow	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Moves faster than all the Bond & Dirk Pitt books COMBINED...	I've said it before, nobody, but NOBODY can write with the intensity of the fabulous Australian Wonder, Matthew Reilly.  His writing is like captured energy that once caught, the only outlet is the written page, and WE readers are the true benefactors of his boundless imagination.  Now if you haven't read Matthew Reilly before, there is one absolutely critical step you MUST take before beginning one of his novels: you HAVE to turn OFF your believability meter before starting page 1.  Do this one simple thing and remember that Reilly writes books to do one thing only: entertain and provide fine brain candy -- remember these steps and his novels suddenly become just amazing vehicles of pure fun.<br />Shane 'Scarecrow' Schofield, who first hit the scene in Reilly's 'Ice Station' and next in 'Area 7' takes center stage in this tale about a Billion-Dollar Group that offers incredible bounties on the literal heads of 15 men around the world who all have just one thing in common -- but finding out what that one *thing* is, well that is all part of the fun of 'Scarecrow'.  This novel, like everything by Reilly doesn't take long to go from zero to Warp Speed, so be prepared to hold on tight as the pages just fly by, even if you are a slow reader like me.<br />Every now and then I read a quote by one of the *so-called* professional book reviewers who say the certain novels had frantic pacing, fast-as-lightning storyline and other similar quotes, but NONE of them accurately describe the tremendous difference between *other* action/adventure authors and what Matthew Reilly manages to put on the written page.  Sure, his books are flat out unbelievable -- but so are the James Bond movies and MOST of the plots in the Dirk Pitt series, but Reilly is in a class all by himself.  Just when you believe that the Scarecrow simply cannot find a way out of certain-death situations, suddenly, miraculously, a seemingly impossible opening becomes available which allows him to cheat death just one more time.  The trusty Maghook makes several appearances to help avert death once or twice along the way, making the action sequences almost beyond description.  Again, over-the-top but Reilly writes with his tongue planted firmly in cheeck knowing that we are all scratching our heads either thinking we're reading unbelievable trash, or wondering how in the WORLD can the pace possibly become ANY faster, all the while enjoying every moment.<br />At the end Matthew informs us that in order to write better novels, he is pulling back how quickly his books come out -- much to the dismay of his many (and growing) fanbase.  However slow he pumps out the literary Tomohawk missles, I suppose I'd rather have a *good* Reilly novel every 2 years rather than a so-so book every 12 months.  In short, crack the book, check your believability meter, sit back, buckle in and hold on tight because you will NEVER find a novel with more action than you will within the pages of something with Matthew Reilly's name on the cover.  'Scarecrow' was as fine as brain candy can get.  Nothing earth shattering, nothing intellectual, nothing even remotely believable -- but it's tough to find a book that is as all-out entertaining per-page as this one (unless its something else written BY Reilly).  Can't wait to read it again.st one more time.  The trusty Maghook makes several appearances to help avert death once or twice along the way, making the action sequences almost beyond description.  Again, over-the-top but Reilly writes with his tongue planted firmly in cheeck knowing that we are all scratching our heads either thinking we're reading unbelievable trash, or wondering how in the WORLD can the pace possibly become ANY faster, all the while enjoying every moment.<br />At the end Matthew informs us that in order to write better novels, he is pulling back how quickly his books come out -- much to the dismay of his many (and growing) fanbase.  However slow he pumps out the literary Tomohawk missles, I suppose I'd rather have a *good* Reilly novel every 2 years rather than a so-so book every 12 months.  In short, crack the book, check your believability meter, sit back, buckle in and hold on tight because you will NEVER find a novel with more action than you will within the pages of something with Matthew Reilly's name on the cover.  'Scarecrow' was as fine as brain candy can get.  Nothing earth shattering, nothing intellectual, nothing even remotely believable -- but it's tough to find a book that is as all-out entertaining per-page as this one (unless its something else written BY Reilly).  Can't wait to read it again.	2004-03-12
US	47950934	R30TTBEQZ6CX8P	0345455738	448911863	Shatterpoint (Star Wars: Clone Wars Novel)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	More like 4.5 -- after abysmal NJO series, this was great!	Like many, I felt that the NJO series began promising, but ultimately was just not UP to the standards the serious Star Wars reader is looking for.  Sure, some of the authors made valliant efforts to reign in the growing mess that it had become, but it wasn't long before it was simply beyond help.  Now we see a story that takes us back to the Clone Wars which we saw a minor glimpse of at the end of Episode II, and gives us an even deeper view into a truly great Star Wars character, Mace Windu.<br />Matthew Stover handles this particular Star Wars entry in fine form, as though he knew exactly what needed to be told for us readers who have been thirsting for a novel based in a Galaxy Far, Far Away that just doesn't suck -- which is ultimately what we want, a book that doesn't waste out time.  'Shatterpoint' DOESN'T suck at all.  In fact, it is an above-average tale that (thanks to Episode I &amp; II) helps us to better understand events we have already seen, and in part, to understand events yet-to-come in the later movies.<br />I wouldn't put Stover's writing on a level equal to Timothy Zahn, who is without a doubt the best living Star Wars author writing today, but Mr. Stover really IS good at what he does.  Some have noted the grim darkness of this tale in other reviews, and I re-emphasize that there are some aspects of this novel which entirely took me by surprise -- mostly due to the graphic depiction of some of the scenes.  NOT what you expect from your typical Star Wars story.  I was (at times) even shocked that some was allowed in print -- and that isn't to mean it DOESN'T belong, but just more than I have seen in ANY previous novel (to date).  Now that I have said this, let me also say that once you are past the more gruesome portions, you can relax and appreciate why they were included.<br />All in all, after some of the drivel of the NJO, despite the best of intentions by Del Rey and some well meaning authors, 'Shatterpoint' is a fantastic addition to the Star Wars Universe that deserves a very large audience and if Mr. Stover ever re-enters this particular Universe again, he can count on an instant best-seller based entirely upon the success of this story.  Well done.he Star Wars Universe that deserves a very large audience and if Mr. Stover ever re-enters this particular Universe again, he can count on an instant best-seller based entirely upon the success of this story.  Well done.	2004-03-08
US	47950934	R1AUMZTWAP17FE	0451411188	434150538	Deep Fire Rising	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Du Brul does it AGAIN.  Cussler has now slipped to #2...	I don't CARE what ANYONE says, Du Brul is DA MAN!  For years I spent a lot of time and wasted energy finding someone, anyone who could compete with Clive Cussler as far as sheer action and adventure was concerned, and after reading a great deal of pure drivel, I finally attempted Du Brul's first novel, 'Vulcan's Forge' and it was obvious from virtually the first page that I had finally found Cussler's heir apparent.  Since Clive has been slipping in his writing over the past few years, Du Brul has managed to improve and thus, surpass the Grand Master of adventure fiction.  I KNEW it was going to happen, I just thought it would take a bit longer.  The latest result from this talented author is 'Deep Fire Rising'.<br />What if a group of people could accurately predict major world catastrophe's well in advance of their happening?  Would it be wise to share this knowledge with the world?  If this ability was possible, countless lives could be spared if they were to know of impending disasters before they happened, right?  Would anyone actually listen to the warnings?  Maybe not at first, but eventually the world would figure out that the accuracy of these warnings were too correct to ignore...right?  That is just part of the story that Du Brul has fashioned for us.  Another thread has to do with our geologist-hero, Phillip Mercer and his special talent for being in the right place at the right time to help avert tremendous, sometimes world-altering events.  Phillip is called to oversee an excavation underneath the highly classified Area 51 only to discover something under the earth that by all rights should NOT be there.  The entire project is sabotaged by an amazing bad guy that Du Brul paints with a great deal of tongue-in-cheek humor, and forces us to look forward to the eventual confrontation with Mercer later on when he receives his due.  After a very creative fire-fight at the incredible Luxor Hotel on the Vegas Strip (seriously, Kudos to Du Brul, this was one shoot-em-up I would LOVE to see on the big screen) Mercer finds himself inheriting the horrific news that a disaster is soon to happen -- one that will have global consequences if it cannot be stopped.  The problem is that Phillip only knows SOME of the information, what he needs desperately is the exact date, and the only way to find this out is to penetrate a hidden complex deep in the mountains of Tibet.  Along the way Mercer also finds some romance (I'd be disappointed if he hadn't...) and pulls off another last-minute nail-biter of a near-disaster.  Let's face it: there was NEVER any doubt that the outcome would be a favorable one, but its the JOURNEY along the way that makes Du Brul's novels worthwhile.  Some have loved this tale and some have been horribly upset with it, but I for one continue to hold Jack in the highest regard for his literary talent.  Another Triumph for Mercer and Du Brul, and as far as I'm concerned, the reader as well.  Simply FUN.oot-em-up I would LOVE to see on the big screen) Mercer finds himself inheriting the horrific news that a disaster is soon to happen -- one that will have global consequences if it cannot be stopped.  The problem is that Phillip only knows SOME of the information, what he needs desperately is the exact date, and the only way to find this out is to penetrate a hidden complex deep in the mountains of Tibet.  Along the way Mercer also finds some romance (I'd be disappointed if he hadn't...) and pulls off another last-minute nail-biter of a near-disaster.  Let's face it: there was NEVER any doubt that the outcome would be a favorable one, but its the JOURNEY along the way that makes Du Brul's novels worthwhile.  Some have loved this tale and some have been horribly upset with it, but I for one continue to hold Jack in the highest regard for his literary talent.  Another Triumph for Mercer and Du Brul, and as far as I'm concerned, the reader as well.  Simply FUN.	2004-02-23
US	47950934	R7YG4E3X80QI3	0765307006	554998165	The Codex	Books	5	7	12	N	N	An Outstanding solo effort from Preston, better than Utopia	I am absolutely impressed with Douglas Preston &amp; Lincoln Child as writing partners.  They have not once let me down with any of their novels.  Some of course are better than others, but ALL of them share one thing in common:  they are GOOD.  When Lincoln Child released his solo 'Utopia' I was also surprised with a very fun and action-oriented thriller based upon the world's most sophisticated Theme Park just outside of Las Vegas.  Then came the latest from both authors, 'Still Life With Crows', which I thought wasn't as good as 'Utopia'.  Well I am happy to say that 'The Codex' is even BETTER.  I wouldn't go so far as to say that either author are better alone than they are together, especially when they are writing at their best, but you can definitely see that both have natural storytelling talent.<br />The Codex is a Mythological adventure tale based upon the ancient Mayan Codex which is rumored to have hundreds of years worth of medicinal uses for the millions of plants that grow in the wilds of Central &amp; South America.  On the surface alone this Codex ought to be priceless for the archaeolgical value alone, but if you delve deeper to see the medical uses that could possibly be found within its pages, you could say that the dollar amount it would be worth could easily pass the several billion mark.<br />An estranged Father who spent the bulk of his adult life plundering ancient tombs and hoarding it away until the value was into the hundreds of millions of dollars, suddenly finds himself facing his life coming to a close -- rapidly.  With this knowledge comes his most frightening thought: what should be done with everything he has amassed over the years?  Among the thousands of items stolen includes the ONLY remaining full Mayan Codex in existence.  He knows he is about to die, and instead of just handing over his treasure to his sons, he makes the decision to hide it all away, and whoever finds it first wins the worlds biggest inheritance.  At first none of them seem even interested in making the attempt to find everything, but that slowly changes into an all-out dash to not just find it, but find it first.  You see, during the skirmish which happens immediately following the brothers discovery of what their Father has done, a desperate pharmaceutical company finds out about the Codex and makes the fateful decision to try and find it all first in order to save the entire organization from crumbling and the leaders from facing prosecution for a number of major violations.<br />What we have next is quite an adventure.  One that will NOT increase your intellect nor make you pause to reflect upon life.  No, what you WILL have, however is a story which does exactly as intended: will transport you away from the real world and into a richly detailed and entertaining place which helps us feel as though our money was WELL spent when we purchased the book.  Again, not up to par with Preston &amp; Child's better novels, but I CAN say it was better than their most recent release, 'Still Life With Crows'.  Maybe you like it less, or agree with me exactly, but either way, chances are if you like these authors together, you will enjoy both of them independently as well.  As long as both Douglas Preston &amp; Lincoln Child continue to write, I plan on spending my hard-earned money on what they produce.  Neither have let me down.  Give The Codex a try, I thought it was a pretty darned good book.e of them seem even interested in making the attempt to find everything, but that slowly changes into an all-out dash to not just find it, but find it first.  You see, during the skirmish which happens immediately following the brothers discovery of what their Father has done, a desperate pharmaceutical company finds out about the Codex and makes the fateful decision to try and find it all first in order to save the entire organization from crumbling and the leaders from facing prosecution for a number of major violations.  <br />What we have next is quite an adventure.  One that will NOT increase your intellect nor make you pause to reflect upon life.  No, what you WILL have, however is a story which does exactly as intended: will transport you away from the real world and into a richly detailed and entertaining place which helps us feel as though our money was WELL spent when we purchased the book.  Again, not up to par with Preston &amp; Child's better novels, but I CAN say it was better than their most recent release, 'Still Life With Crows'.  Maybe you like it less, or agree with me exactly, but either way, chances are if you like these authors together, you will enjoy both of them independently as well.  As long as both Douglas Preston &amp; Lincoln Child continue to write, I plan on spending my hard-earned money on what they produce.  Neither have let me down.  Give The Codex a try, I thought it was a pretty darned good book.	2004-02-11
US	47950934	R2VBJULE591RH0	0345439058	40898568	The World of Shannara (The Sword of Shannara)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	A great companion to the fantastic Shannara epic tales	Everything about this book screams one major thing: RESEARCH.  The authors have spent a great deal of time studying the works of Terry Brooks and went to great lengths to include as much as possible about what was available at the time of the printing.  Basically nothing was omitted -- that I could see anyway.  Details about things I never would have even thought about have been explored in great detail.  No stone was left un-turned, so-to-speak.<br />I have (over the years) developed a basic mental image of what many places and things look like in my minds eye and there are a few that do not meet up with the description I had conjured up in my own imagination, but that didn't stop my enjoyment of learning quite a bit about the history behind the 4 Lands portrayed (along with Parkasia) over the past 26 years in the World of Shannara.<br />The maps alone were of great interest.  Major detail regarding the Druids Keep (VERY well done) and I also very much enjoyed the hundreds of drawings (some color, some black &amp; white) which helped to put a detailed face with the description of many of the best loved Shannara characters over the years such as Garret Jax, The Ilse Witch, The Dagda Mor and even Creepers.<br />I must admit that since it was written by someone as though they had miraculous never-before-seen access to the Druid Histories it gave the book a more novel-like feel to it, and made it seem much more realistic, as though the authors were documenting a REAL place and not one from a fertile imagination.  Very clever and I just cannot get over the incredible attention to detail regarding even some of the most mundane portions of these novels.<br />Ever wonder about Wren Elessedil and her mentor the Rover Garth?  How 'bout the Loden Elfstone for use in time of need.  Curious about the Ellcrys Staff, the gift of living wood?  What about the history of the Borderlands and those who inhabit that land?  It's ALL here -- and a whole LOT more.  One thing you do NOT want to do is buy this book expecting an entirely different Shannara tale or something that will add to what has already been written and published.  The World of Shannara is nothing more than a companion volume which simply put compiles in one single book the major details regarding ALL of the books (written at the time it was printed).  It's a great way to quickly reference virtually any major subject in the vast collection of Shannara tales that have been told.  I have no doubt that an expanded edition will be made available within a few years with additional information collected from the more recent novels, but until then, this book will do just fine.<br />I am very satisfied with my copy of 'The World of Shannara' and as usual, look forward to Terry's next venture into this wonderful fantasy land.NOT want to do is buy this book expecting an entirely different Shannara tale or something that will add to what has already been written and published.  The World of Shannara is nothing more than a companion volume which simply put compiles in one single book the major details regarding ALL of the books (written at the time it was printed).  It's a great way to quickly reference virtually any major subject in the vast collection of Shannara tales that have been told.  I have no doubt that an expanded edition will be made available within a few years with additional information collected from the more recent novels, but until then, this book will do just fine.<br />I am very satisfied with my copy of 'The World of Shannara' and as usual, look forward to Terry's next venture into this wonderful fantasy land.	2004-02-04
US	47950934	R17JEVD3S6JRS3	0345459164	639235887	Star Wars: Survivor's Quest	Books	5	39	45	N	N	ANOTHER winner from the BEST Star Wars author working today	For those of us who are either casual or even serious Star Wars readers, the name Timothy Zahn usually means one thing in particular: a REALLY GOOD BOOK.  Zahn's original Trilogy still remains the absolute BEST Star Wars novels in print, and I am happy to say that for the die-hard Admiral Thrawn fans out there, we finally get to see a glimpse into where he came from.  The Chiss, as they are called contact the New Republic -- specifically Luke Skywalker -- to offer a gesture of good will by informing them they have located the remains of the original Outbound Flight where the original Jedi Master C'Baoth disappeared some 50 years before on a quest to map out the Unknown Regions of Space.  Thrawn intercepted this flight under orders from Emperor Palpatine and utterly decimated all within -- or so we were told.<br />From the very beginning, this story absolutely ROCKS.  I would describe it as a finely tuned mystery that, like an onion, is peeled away slowly but surely as the chapters fly by at Lightspeed.  Someone has intercepted the message meant for Luke and as they travel deep into Chiss space, they discover abruptly who it is who made that interception, and along the way Luke &amp; his wife, Mara find more than they bargain for.  Mysterious problems happen on the Chiss spaceship, seemingly to be nothing more than choreographed diversions for other more interesting crimes to take place.  Along the way we meet another race of aliens who wish to pay tribute to the Jedi who fought to save them from enslavement by a mysterious unknown race of ruthless conquerers and very nearly slaughtered them all.  When Outbound Flight is finally reached, Luke, Mara &amp; the Chiss are rather surprised to find out that not only are the 6-Dreadnaughts in remarkable shape considering their crash-landing, but they also find the last thing they ever expected: survivors -- survivors who apparently wish to have nothing to do with Jedi.  A chance to discover what really happened to Outbound Flight and what role the Chiss really had in their destruction is quite a mystery indeed -- a journey that is very much worth taking.<br />For those of you who ONLY enjoy Star Wars tales that include all of the major CORE characters (Luke, Leia, Han, Lando, R2D2 &amp; C3PO etc) you just may be slightly let down.  For the rest of us who read ANYTHING written by Timothy Zahn, you will NOT be disappointed in the slightest.  As this story unfolded I found myself absolutely wrapped in the mystery and I had a very difficult time putting it down to do mundane things like eat and sleep.  I was also VERY thrilled to hear that Zahn is also planning an additional novel based upon the actual mission OF Outbound Flight scheduled for release sometime next year.  Fans of Timothy Zahn Rejoice!  This is just an additional adventure in that Galaxy Far, Far Away that truly lives up to the Grand Adventure that began with Episode IV back in 1977.  Great Stuff!d Flight and what role the Chiss really had in their destruction is quite a mystery indeed -- a journey that is very much worth taking.<br />For those of you who ONLY enjoy Star Wars tales that include all of the major CORE characters (Luke, Leia, Han, Lando, R2D2 &amp; C3PO etc) you just may be slightly let down.  For the rest of us who read ANYTHING written by Timothy Zahn, you will NOT be disappointed in the slightest.  As this story unfolded I found myself absolutely wrapped in the mystery and I had a very difficult time putting it down to do mundane things like eat and sleep.  I was also VERY thrilled to hear that Zahn is also planning an additional novel based upon the actual mission OF Outbound Flight scheduled for release sometime next year.  Fans of Timothy Zahn Rejoice!  This is just an additional adventure in that Galaxy Far, Far Away that truly lives up to the Grand Adventure that began with Episode IV back in 1977.  Great Stuff!	2004-02-03
US	47950934	R3DFA5O5C2XMFK	0060083247	879661551	Ties That Bind (Amanda Jaffe)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Margolin back on track with this nail biter	Phillip Margolin has the distinction of having written one of my all-time favorite novels (Gone, But Not Forgotten), and has been sporadic (at best) in achieving the success he gained through this one story.  He HAS come close with a couple (After Dark &amp; Wild Justice) but most of the rest of his books have been really good, but not great.  'Wild Justice' was one of his exceptional stories and it introduced us to Amanda Jaffe, our main character in 'Ties'.  Following this we got the filler book, 'The Associate' which was okay, and I was beginning to wonder how many so-so novels we have to go through before landing another truly engrossing tale from Margolin.  I personally believe that 'Ties That Bind' is both exceptional as well as difficult to follow.  Several reviewers have noted that there are too many characters to follow, which really CAN be a problem especially at the beginning.  I forced my way through only to become involved in a story that seemed interesting, but not compelling like some of he previous stories.  However, around half-way through the book I found the plot really thickening into something quite diabolical.<br />The story begins back in the early 70's when the Vaughn Street Glee Club is organized.  Known only by a VERY select few, especially on the outside, and the only way INTO the club is through the worst of human acts: Murder.  We skip ahead to the present when a really disgusting pimp gets nailed for killing one of his prostitutes.  But is he the one who is really responsible?  After discussing his current problems with his attorney, the lawyer informs him that without a rather sizeable retainer, he won't be able to continue to defend him, especially on murder charges.  The Court then appoints him an attorney, but before he can even discover anything about the case, he kills his own defender.  NOW he's in trouble for TWO murders.  Amanda Jaffe becomes involved, but she's still having difficult time adjusting after the Cardoni case (see 'Wild Justice') and the traumatic experience that was for her.  She reluctantly accepts, and becomes embroiled inside the Vaughn Street Glee Club and their attempts to place one of their members inside the White House.<br />The DA scheduled to try the case, Tim Kerrigan has demons of his own.  One night he succumbs to a terrifying greed and hires one of the pimps special prostitutes for an evening, and before long finds himself being blackmailed by the hooker to let the pimp off, or be exposed as the scum that he is.  Tim's character is a multi-demensional one.  On the one hand you despise him for his sordid actions, but on the other you see inside his head and how repulsed he is at himself and what he has done and things cascade and snowball into a life-altering visit with his surrogate father, who is also a judge.  HOW can he handle this situation?  If he ignores the blackmail, he'll be exposed, ruining his wife and daughters lives, but if he gives in he will sink to a new low by intentionally throwing an otherwise air-tight case against the pimp.  The judge gives him an opportunity to erase the entire event, but the cost is VERY high.  Would it be possible to actually eliminate the hooker and make all his problems go away forever?  Slowly, Tim realizes that NOT accepting the judges offer creates a separate set of problems that are just as terrible.<br />'Ties That Bind' really does move along on a track that can be difficult to follow -- especially if you read a little each day and then put the book down for a couple of days, do that and you could be hopelessly lost in attempting to figure out where you were last.  But through all of this, I still found the story worthwhile and quite entertaining.  There are some genuine surprises along the way (especially at the end) and ultimately found the the entire book to be well written and thrilling.  It was by no means up to the level of 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' and 'Wild Justice' but very fun to read nevertheless.  I anxiously await Mr. Margolin's next story.I anxiously await Mr. Margolin's next story.	2003-12-08
US	47950934	R3UO7UZJ3P2B4K	0399150803	642490368	Trojan Odyssey (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Dirk Pitt's Swan Song???	At the end of 'Valhalla Rising' we found out quite by surprise that Dirk Pitt, hero and world-class adventurer has not just one, but TWO children (fraternal twins Dirk Jr. &amp; Summer).  This came as quite a shocker, especially for those of us who have known Dirk to be quite the ladies man -- but also a confirmed bachelor.  His relationship with Congresswoman Loren Smith has come CLOSE to wedding bells once before, but I personally figured that if it didn't happen THEN, it was probably NOT going to happen at ALL.  However, I've learned long ago to NEVER say NEVER.<br />As usual, 'Trojan Odyssey' begins with an interesting re-telling of Homer's Odyssey, a version that is apparently gaining in popularity.  How does it tie-in with events from today?  As is always the case, finding out is half the fun.  Summer &amp; Dirk Jr. are busy attempting to examine a tide of brown crud that has infested waters in the Carribbean when they stumble upon something extraordinary (well Summmer does, at first).  Suddenly things take a nasty turn as the Mother of ALL Hurricanes begins to form and head directly towards Summer &amp; Dirk Jr. and also towards the most unique floating Hotel ever designed.  Can they all safely escape before the Hurricane arrives?  Maybe, maybe not.  Along the way Dirk Sr. and Al make an appearance and suddenly as a direct result, their plans for the next few weeks are set in motion.  Are massive tunnels being excavated underneath Central America, and if so, for what purpose?  Once Dirk &amp; Al figure it out, an all-out race is on to avert an incredible disaster of amazing proportions.<br />Along the way, Dirk Sr. and Al discover one of lifes more unfair absolute rules: we cannot remain young forever.  Getting shot at and risking your life can only remain fun for so long.  Dirk realizes that with the sudden appearance of two grown children his death defying exploits are no longer a challenge, and more of a major hindrance to his ultimate goals.  Dirk does a LOT of soul searching, and along the way it wasn't hard to figure out where it would eventually end up.  Is 'Trojan Odyssey' the last outing for Dirk Sr. as a souped up version of James Bond?  Maybe.  I can't answer that for certain, but with a son named Dirk Jr. it can safely be assumed that Dirk Pitt adventures WILL continue.<br />Along the way I found a few genuine surprises (Admiral Sandecker's New appointment for one) and a few genuine sad moments for us die-hard Dirk Sr. fans.  Unlike James Bond who will forever remain youthful, Clive has treated us fans to one simple reality: we ALL grow older, and so did Dirk.  He no longer can do all the stunts he used to without serious repercussions.  Healing from wounds no longer are as quick as they used to be, and the thought of leaving his two children without a Father begins to seriously force Dirk to re-think his life.  I finished 'Trojan Odyssey' with mixed emotions.  Did I enjoy it?  Absolutely.  Did it make me excited about what was on the horizon for Dirk &amp; Co.?  Again, yes.  But it also saddened me at the same time.  You will just have to read it for yourself to figure out what all of this means, and why.<br />Clive continues to be the BEST action/adventure author writing today, and no matter WHAT it is, if his name is on it, you can be rest assured that I WILL be reading it.  Long Live Clive &amp; Dirk Pitt, both senior &amp; junior.s a LOT of soul searching, and along the way it wasn't hard to figure out where it would eventually end up.  Is 'Trojan Odyssey' the last outing for Dirk Sr. as a souped up version of James Bond?  Maybe.  I can't answer that for certain, but with a son named Dirk Jr. it can safely be assumed that Dirk Pitt adventures WILL continue.  <br />Along the way I found a few genuine surprises (Admiral Sandecker's New appointment for one) and a few genuine sad moments for us die-hard Dirk Sr. fans.  Unlike James Bond who will forever remain youthful, Clive has treated us fans to one simple reality: we ALL grow older, and so did Dirk.  He no longer can do all the stunts he used to without serious repercussions.  Healing from wounds no longer are as quick as they used to be, and the thought of leaving his two children without a Father begins to seriously force Dirk to re-think his life.  I finished 'Trojan Odyssey' with mixed emotions.  Did I enjoy it?  Absolutely.  Did it make me excited about what was on the horizon for Dirk &amp; Co.?  Again, yes.  But it also saddened me at the same time.  You will just have to read it for yourself to figure out what all of this means, and why.<br />Clive continues to be the BEST action/adventure author writing today, and no matter WHAT it is, if his name is on it, you can be rest assured that I WILL be reading it.  Long Live Clive &amp; Dirk Pitt, both senior &amp; junior.	2003-11-24
US	47950934	R19I9V8USSQ58U	0765301768	472724660	The Lair of Bones (The Runelords, Book 4)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Incredible Conclusion to a fantastic series	The Runelord series began a few years ago visiting Fantasy from a totally different perspective.  I admit that it took a bit to get used to -- for me at least -- but once I did, I found myself totally absorbed by what I was reading.  As I write this, I can think of NO OTHER FANTASY SERIES that uses magic as creatively as does this series of novels.  The ability to donate one of your own personal attributes to another is absolutely a stunning piece of creativity in the world of fantasy literature.  Everything from your voice, wit, strength, stamina, metabolism, smell and even sight -- all can be transferred from one person to another.  The VERY interesting part about doing this is once you have donated, either by force or willingly, ANY attribute to another, you then become a dedicate of the Runelord who is using you.  It is up to them to keep you safe, and take care of you as much as possible, and should you happen to die, the Runelord will lose that attribute instantly.  Our resident bad guy, Raj, has the attributes of literally thousands of people and animals and is therefore as close to immortal as a human can get.  But even though Raj represents an incredible threat to the peace-loving people of the Earth King Gaborn, they both face an even bigger threat from the hoardes of Reavers who have begun to spew forth from the very bowels of the earth to wreak catastrophic chaos and death wherever they go.<br />Virtually each and every character is treated as though they are absolutely pivotal to the plots progression -- because they are.  We have more than just a small group of people who take center stage surrounded by many supporting characters, no almost everyone is a main character in their own right.  I found this to be incredibly facinating as I began this series, and realized that I enjoyed it very much.  Just when you start to wonder what is happening to one person, Farland switches gears and gives us more insight into yet another main character and suddenly the focus of where you THOUGHT the novel was heading goes into a totally different direction.  This is what I loved MOST about this entire series, while I could speculate and guess where certain portions of the book would end up, the vast majority of the time I was absolutely unaware of what would happen next.  Not on the explosively unpredictable level you might find in George R. R. Martin's 'Song of Ice &amp; Fire' series, but close.<br />The Lair of Bones is where this story takes you.  Into the earth (literally) to find the One True master.  What more of the mystery behind the Reavers does Averan discover?  Do the Reavers prevail?  What happens to Raj Ahtan?  What is in store for the Earth King and his people?  ALL of this is answered in fine fashion within the pages of 'The Lair of Bones'.  Farland ties up the loose ends nicely and unlike Robert Jordan who seems to have created such a complex and convoluted storyline that even HE doesn't know where to go next, The Runelord Series has been guided by a steady hand from the beginning and comes to an incredible conclusion wrapping up the major storylines in my opinion quite nicely.  Will there be more from the world of The Runelords?  I have it on good authority that there WILL be more from Farland in the not-too-distant future.  You can COUNT on the fact that I definitely WILL be following whatever comes next.  Kudos to David Farland for giving this particular reader an exciting and quite unpredictable experience.  One that I plan on re-experiencing again soon.e focus of where you THOUGHT the novel was heading goes into a totally different direction.  This is what I loved MOST about this entire series, while I could speculate and guess where certain portions of the book would end up, the vast majority of the time I was absolutely unaware of what would happen next.  Not on the explosively unpredictable level you might find in George R. R. Martin's 'Song of Ice &amp; Fire' series, but close.  <br />The Lair of Bones is where this story takes you.  Into the earth (literally) to find the One True master.  What more of the mystery behind the Reavers does Averan discover?  Do the Reavers prevail?  What happens to Raj Ahtan?  What is in store for the Earth King and his people?  ALL of this is answered in fine fashion within the pages of 'The Lair of Bones'.  Farland ties up the loose ends nicely and unlike Robert Jordan who seems to have created such a complex and convoluted storyline that even HE doesn't know where to go next, The Runelord Series has been guided by a steady hand from the beginning and comes to an incredible conclusion wrapping up the major storylines in my opinion quite nicely.  Will there be more from the world of The Runelords?  I have it on good authority that there WILL be more from Farland in the not-too-distant future.  You can COUNT on the fact that I definitely WILL be following whatever comes next.  Kudos to David Farland for giving this particular reader an exciting and quite unpredictable experience.  One that I plan on re-experiencing again soon.	2003-11-15
US	47950934	R3PKFG8MVX2K7M	0553298046	1581781	Specter of the Past (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn #1)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	5 Star effort from the best author in the Star Wars Universe	I admit right up front I am a firm believer that Timothy Zahn is THE Best Star Wars author out there -- bar none.  Simply put, he has NO equal -- PERIOD.  At least not that I have read.  Anyway, after reading Zahn's original trilogy (which are the standard by which ALL Star Wars novels ought to be judged, by the way), I rekindled my interest and love in that Galaxy Far, Far Away and anxiously started to read as many other novels that came after as I could find -- only to be disappointed each and every time (with 2 or 3 possible exceptions...).  Suddenly I see 'Specter of the Past' with Zahn's name on it, and my interest goes back UP again.  The challenge facing him this time around wasn't so much to write a story of his choosing, but now he must incorporate into his novels events that have happened following his Trilogy by authors who have all but ruined the Star Wars name.  In this effort, Zahn proves he us up to the task yet again.  Many feel deprived that he chose not to explore several avenues established by other authors (such as what is going on at the Jedi Academy) but I for one am glad that he ignored these and instead developed an original story that built upon his original 3 novels and continued to expand his characterization of some of the greatest Star Wars creations to date, namely Mara Jade, Talon Karrde and Captain Pellaeon.<br />I was one of the many who was genuinely upset when Thrawn bit the dust in Zahn's 'The Last Command'.  He was in every way a better bad guy than the Emperor or Vader combined.  Sure, they were more evil, but Thrawn was a far superior military strategist.  Where Vader &amp; the Emperor ruled through fear, Thrawn ruled through brilliance and gained the respect and allegiance of his army by treating them fair and providing them with results, sometimes against impossible odds.  So, when Zahn hints of Thrawns return in 'Specter' I was absolutely thrilled.  But is it in fact the REAL Thrawn, or a clever impersonator?  In many of the previous and following SW novels, the conflicts have been larger than life and having the tiny remnants of the Empire developing Super Weapon after Super Weapon is lame and totally boring.  With Zahn's careful writing, Star Wars begins to delve into what I feel to be a much more realistic setting for this series: internal conflict within the New Republic, and continuing threats from those within the Empire who wish to derail the upcoming possible treaty with the New Republic.  I think that because the plot is more character driven it becomes instantly more interesting and overall more entertaining.  While not as overall satisfying as his original Thrawn Trilogy, I give VERY high marks to Zahn for being able to thread together this story, and meshing it with the plot-lines established by other authors in this series.  If you count yourself a fan of the Star Wars Universe, it ought to be required reading to pick up anything written by Timothy Zahn, but you should decide for yourself.  In my personal opinion, he is the best author in the Star Wars Universe.he previous and following SW novels, the conflicts have been larger than life and having the tiny remnants of the Empire developing Super Weapon after Super Weapon is lame and totally boring.  With Zahn's careful writing, Star Wars begins to delve into what I feel to be a much more realistic setting for this series: internal conflict within the New Republic, and continuing threats from those within the Empire who wish to derail the upcoming possible treaty with the New Republic.  I think that because the plot is more character driven it becomes instantly more interesting and overall more entertaining.  While not as overall satisfying as his original Thrawn Trilogy, I give VERY high marks to Zahn for being able to thread together this story, and meshing it with the plot-lines established by other authors in this series.  If you count yourself a fan of the Star Wars Universe, it ought to be required reading to pick up anything written by Timothy Zahn, but you should decide for yourself.  In my personal opinion, he is the best author in the Star Wars Universe.	2003-10-14
US	47950934	R268VAO49V1NZM	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yet ANOTHER 5 Star effort from Star Wars' Best author	'Vision of the Future' is a stunning conclusion to this 2-book cycle which ended all too soon, and hinted of things to come -- hopefully sooner rather than later (rumor has it Zahn will return to the Star Wars Universe in early '04).  Internal conflict within the New Republic...the possible resurrection of Grand Admiral Thrawn...and the relationship between Mara Jade &amp; Luke finally (FINALLY!!!!) comes full circle.  Who is framing the Bothans for an unspeakable act which happened many years before?  ARE they in fact innocent, or did they conspire to destroy a planet?  As much as we love to hate Borsk and his fellow Bothans, if they are innocent, whoever is responsible ought to be brought up on charges.  I absolutely loved the more detail behind these characters originally fleshed out in Zahn's original Trilogy.  Everyone from Talon Karrde to Captain Pellaeon receive extra attention here, and thankfully Mara &amp; Luke's relationship is given a chance to go where us fans have been hoping it would go since the end of 'The Last Command'.  Nobody, and I do mean NOBODY can spin a Star Wars yarn like Timothy Zahn.  One reviewer even stated that you can almost hear John Williams soundtrack playing in the background as you read his books, and I SWEAR that I could hear it several times as I read along.<br />Everything that makes Star Wars one of (if not the) most popular science fiction series of all-time is all here.  Zahn doesn't write about just a bunch of characters named Luke, Leia &amp; Han, but he captures the very essence of what made the original 3 movies so darned entertaining: their humor...their quirky personal attributes and a keen eye for recreating exactly what that character really would be saying if it had been written by George Lucas himself.  While Zahn wasn't totally able to re-create the magic his original trilogy managed to pull off (that is in part due to the fact that he had to write 2 novels incorporating information that came out in books following his original 3, and those novels that followed just plain reeked, for the most part) he DID manage to thoroughly entertain me during the 4 days it took me to finish up this book.  HIGH marks indeed for helping to bring me back to a time when I actually enjoyed reading Star Wars.  Mr. Zahn, please give us more.wing his original 3, and those novels that followed just plain reeked, for the most part) he DID manage to thoroughly entertain me during the 4 days it took me to finish up this book.  HIGH marks indeed for helping to bring me back to a time when I actually enjoyed reading Star Wars.  Mr. Zahn, please give us more.	2003-10-14
US	47950934	R1EF8AGASQNZM8	0345449029	591518830	The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels (Star Wars)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Brilliant collection of art &amp; inventive space hardware...	I was sent this book from Random House completely unsolicited and at first I didn't think that I would even crack it open at all -- but out of sheer boredom one day I picked it up and I was absolutely stunned at the incredible amount of work that went into making this collection as realistic as possible.  The artwork is as top notch as you can get and the research that Mr. Blackman has devoted to each ship is very apparent.  Everything from the obscure to the obvious is detailed within the pages of this tome.  My personal favorite would be the Outrider used by Dash Rendar in 'The Shadows of the Empire'.  A sort of stream-lined souped up version of the Millennium Falcon, it certainly looks very Star Wars and the commentary behind it all is comprehensive.<br />Are you a fan of Pod Racing?  You'll find 'em all in here.  How 'bout the Super Star Destroyer Executor?  In here as well.  Or maybe you would like to know the top speed of the Jawa Sandcrawler -- all answered in here.  Ever hear of the V-Wing?  Do you know the technical specs on Boba Fett's Slave I, the weapons capability of Talon Karrde's luxury smuggling ship?  You will after reading this book.  It's all laid out in easy-to-read format.  The attention to detail is incredible.  I also enjoyed comparing the X-Wing with the Y and B-Wing fighters up close.  Sure it's all fiction, but it takes one step closer to reality within these pages.  My son has been drooling over this book ever since I brought it home and I finally had to give it up for a few days so he could comb over each page for what seemed like hours until his thirst for Star Wars info had been quenched.<br />If you are looking for a fictional Star Wars story, this is NOT what you are looking for...instead this is a fictional collection of ships and vessels you will find in the Star Wars movies (including Attack of the Clones &amp; the most recently released New Jedi Order novels) and how they stack up next to each other.  Some of the more creative and clever looking ships are out of the novels rather than the movies, and personally I think that the ships from the original 3 movies are way more impressive than anything shown so far in Episodes I &amp; II.  Let me be honest: if you are a fan of all things Star Wars, you should have this book.  If you'd rather read a book featuring Han, Leia and Luke, pick something else.  Keep this in mind, but it's hard not to be impressed with the HUGE amount of work that went into even the tiniest of details in this book.  Very well done.nd clever looking ships are out of the novels rather than the movies, and personally I think that the ships from the original 3 movies are way more impressive than anything shown so far in Episodes I &amp; II.  Let me be honest: if you are a fan of all things Star Wars, you should have this book.  If you'd rather read a book featuring Han, Leia and Luke, pick something else.  Keep this in mind, but it's hard not to be impressed with the HUGE amount of work that went into even the tiniest of details in this book.  Very well done.	2003-10-09
US	47950934	R3NVAM5E40PJFL	0553560719	42812583	Dark Force Rising (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An absolutely PERFECT sequel to Heir to the Empire	Timothy Zahn's incredible 'Heir To The Empire' remains one of the 3 greatest Star Wars novels written (the other 2 would be the immediate sequels, of course) and 'Dark Force Rising' picks up shortly after, with a slightly misleading title.  When you are dealing with anything that has the Star Wars name on the front, when you read 'Dark Force' what comes to YOUR mind?  Well my opinion had something to do with the Dark Jedi that was introduced in 'Heir' but you may as well drop that idea right up front.  The fabled Dark Force is a fleet of Dreadnaught ships with a Dark Coloring that were all networked together (or in this case, Slave Rigged) to one ship called the Katana, and one day (as the story goes) the Katana's crew goes nuts and trips them all into Hyperspace and instantly an entire fleet of ships disappear, never to be seen from again.  As events from 'DFR' pick up, smuggler Talon Karrde apparently believes that he knows exactly where the Katana Fleet is located, and since the Alliance AND the Empire are in desperate need of new ships, finding the Dark Force suddenly becomes Priority #1.  Who will get to the ships first, and also, does either the Empire OR the Alliance have enough men to crew the fleet if and when the ships are found in the first place?<br />We delve deeper into the corrupted mind of the cloned dark Jedi, Joruus and what plans Grand Admiral Thrawn has for him and we see a little more of what his grand scheme is for defeating the Rebels.  The depth of character development in 'Dark Force Rising' is more apparent and we get into the mind of Thrawn even more.  Zahn's evil creation marks him as an even greater 3-dimensional character than either Vader or the Emperor ever was on the big screen.  More depth.  More ambition, and most of all, more brains.  Where Vader &amp; the Emperor ruled by fear, Thrawn rules by simply making the best decisions based on solid research and the brilliant deductions from the mind of the only alien Palpatine ever allowed to rise in major rank within the confines of the Empire.  Zahn never gives us too much info too quickly, always leaving some detail out of the picture until just the right moment when he opens the curtain of your mind and reveals a little more of what we have in store for the last book, 'The Last Command'.  Just as the bombshell was dropped at the end of 'The Empire Strikes Back' with the revelation from Vader that he is Luke's Father, Zahn leaves us hanging at the end of 'Dark Force Rising' with quite a nailbiter of an ending, too.<br />Once again, I can find nothing wrong with this 2nd installment in this trilogy.  I have yet to read ANY Star Wars novels that are as well drawn out and all-out entertaining as this series was and is--with the possible exception of the 'Hand of Thrawn' duo that Zahn wrote several years later (although still excellent, they were not as good as his original trilogy).  'The Last Command' is simply put a grand ending to this incredibly well told series of books.  Many have wondered how well these 3 books would've turned out had they been put up on the big screen...well, if they could've done it, my personal opinion is if they would have closely followed the novels, they would most certainly have been MUCH better than Episode's I &amp; II have turned out to be.  Run out and buy this series if you haven't yet.  Absolutely the best of the best in the Star Wars Universe in print, and they simply should NOT be missed.  Bravo, Mr. Zahn.wed to rise in major rank within the confines of the Empire.  Zahn never gives us too much info too quickly, always leaving some detail out of the picture until just the right moment when he opens the curtain of your mind and reveals a little more of what we have in store for the last book, 'The Last Command'.  Just as the bombshell was dropped at the end of 'The Empire Strikes Back' with the revelation from Vader that he is Luke's Father, Zahn leaves us hanging at the end of 'Dark Force Rising' with quite a nailbiter of an ending, too.  <br />Once again, I can find nothing wrong with this 2nd installment in this trilogy.  I have yet to read ANY Star Wars novels that are as well drawn out and all-out entertaining as this series was and is--with the possible exception of the 'Hand of Thrawn' duo that Zahn wrote several years later (although still excellent, they were not as good as his original trilogy).  'The Last Command' is simply put a grand ending to this incredibly well told series of books.  Many have wondered how well these 3 books would've turned out had they been put up on the big screen...well, if they could've done it, my personal opinion is if they would have closely followed the novels, they would most certainly have been MUCH better than Episode's I &amp; II have turned out to be.  Run out and buy this series if you haven't yet.  Absolutely the best of the best in the Star Wars Universe in print, and they simply should NOT be missed.  Bravo, Mr. Zahn.	2003-10-08
US	47950934	R2Y1T25A71DJPL	0425191729	695859314	Golden Buddha (The Oregon Files)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Hard to follow choppy action/adventure tale	Like most Clive Cussler fans, I wait around for his next book like a junkie waiting for his next fix.  When I heard that he was teaming with Craig Dirgo (who wrote the rather entertaining 'Einstein Papers') for another series called, 'The Oregon Files', I just KNEW it was going to be every bit as great as anything and everything Clive had already written.  Unfortunately, I was wrong.<br />'Golden Buddha' is unlike ANYTHING that Clive has done before.  At least with the Kurt Austin stories, Clive &amp; Kemprecos followed the tried &amp; true formula which had served so well over the course of the Dirk Pitt tales...however the Oregon Files treads over different ground.  I was encouraged -- at first -- that the beginning started off as so many of the Cussler novels do with a re-telling of an event that happened decades before as the Dali Lama is forced to flee into exile from Tibet -- but this is where ANY similarity to previous books ENDS.  As I began chapter 1, I had the distinct feeling that I had walked into an action movie 20 minutes AFTER it had started.  The story was already in motion making me feel as though I had missed some critical details into the plot.  As the story unfolds, the Corporation running the Oregon are hired to steal the Golden Buddha, which had disappeared when the Dali Lama had fled from Tibet into India many years before in an attempt of a good-will gesture to gently nudge China into giving up control of the country they cannot afford to run any longer anyway.  It IS an imaginative caper, I assure you -- but it is VERY difficult to follow.  There are a LOT of chapters in 'Golden Buddha', and MANY even smaller segments within each chapter, forcing the story to jump from one scene to another.  Now I'm certain that this was intended to move seamlessly, but unfortunately, the story moves from one location to another so often and so choppy it was quite a chore to remember where things were if you put the book down for just a few minutes, let alone pick it up after a day of sitting on the shelf.  There are a LARGE assembly of characters to keep track of, and even with the help of a Cast of Character List at the beginning of the book, I found myself wondering just WHO this or that person was.  Part of this problem was due to the Corporation characters taking on the alias of other people, and within certain segments of the chapters, the authors refer to them with their alias names as well as their real names, thus confusing me even MORE.  I pride myself on being able to follow complicated stories and convoluted plots with reasonable ease, but 'Golden Buddha' had me wondering which way was up many times.<br />While I have HIGH hopes that the next Oregon Files story will be easier to follow, reading this latest Cussler tale turned out to be a bit more of a challenge than I had originally figured it to be.  With that said, I still found 'Golden Buddha' to be a fun story (provided you could follow what was going on) and although not on par with Dirk Pitt or Kurt Austin, the tales featuring Juan Cabrillo and the ship Oregon just might end up scoring Cussler an even larger following than he already has.  I fervently look forward to the next Pitt tale, 'Trojan Odyssey'.  Judge for yourself, but remember that just because this story says Clive Cussler on the front, does NOT mean that you will get a novel that even remotely resembles anything he has written before.  I think that starting 'Golden Buddha' with this knowledge up front will make the story easier to digest and enjoy, which I did -- just not as much as I would've liked.e pick it up after a day of sitting on the shelf.  There are a LARGE assembly of characters to keep track of, and even with the help of a Cast of Character List at the beginning of the book, I found myself wondering just WHO this or that person was.  Part of this problem was due to the Corporation characters taking on the alias of other people, and within certain segments of the chapters, the authors refer to them with their alias names as well as their real names, thus confusing me even MORE.  I pride myself on being able to follow complicated stories and convoluted plots with reasonable ease, but 'Golden Buddha' had me wondering which way was up many times.  <br />While I have HIGH hopes that the next Oregon Files story will be easier to follow, reading this latest Cussler tale turned out to be a bit more of a challenge than I had originally figured it to be.  With that said, I still found 'Golden Buddha' to be a fun story (provided you could follow what was going on) and although not on par with Dirk Pitt or Kurt Austin, the tales featuring Juan Cabrillo and the ship Oregon just might end up scoring Cussler an even larger following than he already has.  I fervently look forward to the next Pitt tale, 'Trojan Odyssey'.  Judge for yourself, but remember that just because this story says Clive Cussler on the front, does NOT mean that you will get a novel that even remotely resembles anything he has written before.  I think that starting 'Golden Buddha' with this knowledge up front will make the story easier to digest and enjoy, which I did -- just not as much as I would've liked.	2003-10-08
US	47950934	R161Q52GMEVWN8	0553296124	81931578	Heir to the Empire (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If only Episode 1 &amp; 2 were as good as THIS Trilogy...	My hat is off to Timothy Zahn, in my opinion, the BEST Star Wars novelist writing today.  It seemed that until the early 90's, the only major series of books to read in the sci-fi universe had Star Trek on the cover -- that is until George Lucas gave the OKAY for Timothy Zahn to begin what would become arguably the best series of Star Wars books written...PERIOD.<br />I noticed one reviewer hailed 'Heir To The Empire' as Episode VII and I believe that was just about the best title, because Zahn so perfectly captured the *feel* of the Star Wars Universe that it in every way exceeded the three original movies.  I can't tell you how great it was to get re-acquianted with Han &amp; Leia as a married (and expecting) couple, Lando, Luke as well as a whole group of new characters which hold their own against any previous in the series.  Grand Admiral Thrawn is simply a better bad guy than both Darth Vader &amp; the Emperor combined.  He uses good old fashioned brains and military tactics to win for the Empire and although he sees a minor defeat at the end of 'Heir' this in no way slows down his ultimate plan on crushing the Alliance.  As you wind yourself through this book and the following 2 books in this series, you see how Zahn sprinkled so much in between the lines of how his version of a tale told in a galaxy far, far away should be.  You have absolutely everything that made the original 3 movies so good, the Force, the Dark Side, and epic battle scenes.  We get inside the head of Luke Skywalker (a very interesting place to be, I might add), you get an extra dose of humor from Han, and let's not forget the wit &amp; wisdom of C3PO.  It's ALL here.  I particularly enjoyed the introduction of Talon Karrde, Mara Jade and the very unique creatures that have the ability to repel the Force.  I found it absolutely brilliant how Zahn incorporated that into the overall story, particularly in 'The Last Command' and their critical help in creating a menacing clone army for the New &amp; Improved Empire.<br />There simply is not a SINGLE negative thing I can think of about these books.  Maybe I'm building them up too big for you, but I don't think so.  Any Star Wars fan worth his/her salt ought to make reading these 3 novels required.  Unfortunately there are a glut of SW novels on the market today, MOST of which are a gigantic waste of trees in my opinion.  The New Jedi Order novels which pretty much began with the promising 'Vector Prime' have deteriorated into a farce that just happens to be using the Star Wars name to advance utter drivel.  But if you can find anything with Timothy Zahn's name on the front, you are guaranteed a story that will entertain as well as inform you about the world of Star Wars.  Just HOW good is Zahn?  Believe it or not, the planet Coruscant was such a good creation, George Lucas BORROWED it for use in the Phantom Menace.  Yes, it's true, Lucas did NOT come up with that one by himself.  I have talked with one of the authors of a single Star Wars novel and they told me that in their conversations with Mr. Lucas, he admitted that Zahn's Trilogy was the equal to anything he had managed to come up with, and possibly better.  You cannot find a better endorsement than that, now can you?  Go ahead, give in and buy 'Heir To The Empire' if you haven't yet.  You will be amazed how good it is -- especially if you have managed to suffer through any of the trash that has come out in the past 5 or 6 years with the Star Wars name on the cover.  Once you give in to this, you will most certainly follow by reading the two sequels, 'Dark Force Rising' (which isn't what you may think it is) and 'The Last Command'.  Truly worthy of the Star Wars name.  Timothy Zahn IS the master.New &amp; Improved Empire.  <br />There simply is not a SINGLE negative thing I can think of about these books.  Maybe I'm building them up too big for you, but I don't think so.  Any Star Wars fan worth his/her salt ought to make reading these 3 novels required.  Unfortunately there are a glut of SW novels on the market today, MOST of which are a gigantic waste of trees in my opinion.  The New Jedi Order novels which pretty much began with the promising 'Vector Prime' have deteriorated into a farce that just happens to be using the Star Wars name to advance utter drivel.  But if you can find anything with Timothy Zahn's name on the front, you are guaranteed a story that will entertain as well as inform you about the world of Star Wars.  Just HOW good is Zahn?  Believe it or not, the planet Coruscant was such a good creation, George Lucas BORROWED it for use in the Phantom Menace.  Yes, it's true, Lucas did NOT come up with that one by himself.  I have talked with one of the authors of a single Star Wars novel and they told me that in their conversations with Mr. Lucas, he admitted that Zahn's Trilogy was the equal to anything he had managed to come up with, and possibly better.  You cannot find a better endorsement than that, now can you?  Go ahead, give in and buy 'Heir To The Empire' if you haven't yet.  You will be amazed how good it is -- especially if you have managed to suffer through any of the trash that has come out in the past 5 or 6 years with the Star Wars name on the cover.  Once you give in to this, you will most certainly follow by reading the two sequels, 'Dark Force Rising' (which isn't what you may think it is) and 'The Last Command'.  Truly worthy of the Star Wars name.  Timothy Zahn IS the master.	2003-10-08
US	47950934	R31OOCSLMEFPQB	0553564927	619509665	The Last Command (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An absolutely PERFECT ending to this Trilogy...	This series started out perfectly with 'Heir to the Empire' and continued perfectly with 'Dark Force Rising' and 'The Last Command' brought it all together, well, perfectly.  Timothy Zahn has absolutely NO equal when it comes to writing Star Wars novels.  He captured the very essence of what made Star Wars so wonderful in the first place.  Great stories with Fantastic characters and wonderfully drawn bad guys &amp; aliens.  All of that continues with 'The Last Command'.  Every time Han, Leia or Luke speak, it sounds as if it were something the REAL characters would've said had this series been made into movies by George Lucas.  But just as important as all of the old characters are developed, Zahn's new creations are just as essential and intricate to the story.  Everyone from Mara Jade to Talon Karrde and his band of smugglers, and possibly the best bad guy created in the Star Wars Universe, Grand Admiral Thrawn.  He's so good at being bad you almost root for the guy--ALMOST.<br />ALL the loose ends are tied up nicely in this last book.  The Nohgri make critical revelations that will turn the tide on the success of the Empire, Mara Jade discovers a way to end her maddening dreams of fighting Luke Skywalker, and how will the Alliance handle a new threat of clones to man the Dark Force of ships recovered at the end of book 2?  Sure, it takes YEARS to amass a number of clones, right?  Or has Thrawn figured a way around that, too?  Discover for yourself why Timothy Zahn has the best reviewed Star Wars books here at amazon.com.  There is a reason why people love his books.  If you are a true Star Wars fan, you should find out for yourself.  I also recommend the Hand of Thrawn 2-book series that Zahn wrote a few years later, and while head &amp; shoulders above the average and even above-average Star Wars fare out there, they too fall short of his original trilogy.  I think I'm going to go out and re-read this series yet again.	2003-10-08
US	47950934	R1ZC6CA1V308MG	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	7	14	N	N	A LOT of ranting -- but I STILL enjoyed it...	First off, I was REALLY disappointed with Pillars of Creation as were most of the readers (if the reviews here at amazon are any indication), and I was HOPING -- PRAYING for a return of the central characters that made reading this series so enjoyable over the course of the previous books...I was also hoping for an update on a few of the *lost* people, namely Nathan the Prophet, the REAL Prelate of the Sisters of Light and Adie &amp; Zedd.  Thank HEAVENS we get a small glimpse of what they are up to and where they all are in the battle to eliminate the Imperial Order from the face of the earth.<br />I hate lectures as well as the next guy, but one of the reasons why I wasn't put off by Richard's (sometimes) lengthy speeches is simple: I AGREE WITH HIM.  The pacifists of this world would rather lie down and DIE rather than actually DO something about the sorry state they find themselves in, much like the Naked Empire we find in this book.  They firmly believe that bowing down to terrorism is better than fighting for freedom.  These are the same people who insult the hundreds of thousands of men &amp; women who have over the course of the past couple centuries died to let us have the freedoms we enjoy in this country.  YES, war SHOULD be avoided IF possible.  Unfortunately circumstances DO warrant action, sometimes drastic action, and this is what I believe Richard is talking about in Naked Empire and also in Faith of the Fallen.  YES, he more than likely could've cut plenty out of the speeches to avoid needless repetition, but I also believe that one of the main reasons why it was brought up so often is to maintain the realism of the situation that the characters find themselves in: Namely trying to convince confirmed pacifists to STOP dying for NO GOOD REASON.  If you have ever met a TRUE pacifist, you know that attempting to talk sense is like pounding your head against a wall.  Often those who talk like pacifists have never truly lived in ANY kind of situation that would require them to live in fear as do many in other parts of the world where the price of freedom is truly being able to defend ones self fully.  Living a life of pacifism is no life at all -- JUST as Richard says.  I honestly don't care if Mr. Goodkind IS copying Atlas Shrugged, personally I don't see the similarities as some claim there to be, but just like religion, you have ONE BOOK (the Bible) and a thousand different interpretations.  While mine may differ from many, I still enjoyed this story.<br />The new Empire that Richard, Kahlan and company are forced into visiting and helping truly believes that submitting to the torture and rule of the Imperial Order is better than living free.  Richard desperately attempts to force them into seeing how this is going to eventually cause their people to be eradicated, and although it takes him the better part of the book for this to happen, he finally breaks through their stubborness and this is truly where the action begins.  Once again, I wish this had happened much sooner, but as I've said before, this is Terry Goodkind's tale, and if he wishes to take 10 more novels to finish it up, that is HIS right.  Sure, I can hint for him to wrap up the battle with Jagang and restore peace to the land as soon as possible to get the plot back on track, but no matter what, I will be first in line to purchase his next novel, regardless where that story goes.  Oh, one person DID bring up something interesting in a previous review that I felt was worth noting: from reading the Stone of Tears I didn't think there were all that many Sisters of Light &amp; Dark, but there certainly seems to be an in-exhaustable supply of Dark Sisters in Jagang's hoard of evil-doers.  I'm just wondering where they all came from -- especially since between Richard, Kahlan, Zedd &amp; Adie they have killed off dozens of them in earlier books.  Just curious, that's all.<br />If you are one of the many who have been turned off by Mr. Goodkinds last fewbooks, that is certainly your choice, but I for one am sticking with him and fervently hope that he continues to write full-time and as long as he does, he can count on me to be a faithful reader.few books, that is certainly your choice, but I for one am sticking with him and fervently hope that he continues to write full-time and as long as he does, he can count on me to be a faithful reader.	2003-10-01
US	47950934	R1A3794OT9TXMN	0345435737	925808576	Jarka Ruus (High Druid of Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another strong addition to the wonderful world of Shannara	It's been 20 years since the events described in 'Morgawr' and Grianne Ohmsford now finds herself in the less than desirable position of being the High Druid of the Four Lands.  Too many of her opponents either cannot or will not forget her life as the Ilse Witch and actively plan on banishing her to a place from which she cannot return.  I MUST admit that when I discovered where it was she was sent, I instantly knew this series had received a major jolt of adrenaline.  I won't spoil the surprise by telling you where she ends up, but suffice it to say if you are a long-time fan of this series, you've heard of it before.<br />I have been somewhat annoyed over the course of these Shannara novels to see how Mr. Brooks has left behind some of my favorite characters and created entirely new ones -- many of which I have enjoyed just as much, but when I noticed Grianne as one of the central characters of this new series, I believed that Bek would also make a major appearance as well -- not so.  But once again, this in no way distracts from the pure enjoyment of the story.  Bek's son, Penderrin (Pen) believes he is without the use of magic, but of course he is incorrect, and his particularly unique powers are critical in finding a way to get TO his aunt, and more importantly, getting her BACK into the world of the Four Lands.  He is assisted by Grianne's right hand man, Tagwen the Dwarf who is absolutely obsessed with his failure to protect the Ard Rhys and is just as driven to see her found and returned to where she rightfully belongs.<br />On the other side, you have the power struggle inside the walls of Paranor as to who will take the place of the Ard Rhys and slowly but surely, suspicion mounts as to the motives of Shadea a'Ru, the one Druid who seemed to assume this roll almost immediately upon the discovery that Grianne had disappeared.  Equally obsessed with keeping her banished forever, Shadea organizes a search party who is sent out to assure that anyone who even might have the slightest chance of returning the Ard Rhys back will fail.  Lucky for Tagwen and Pen, Shadea believes that to be Grianne's brother, Bek, who is off hunting with his wife.  This offers Pen and Tagwen the chance to escape (barely) and receive a visit from the fabled King of the Silver River (I've always wished that Terry would write more about this character, but I guess I'll have to continue to wait...).  All in all a great start to what promises to be another fantastic Shannara Trilogy.  I am also fervently waiting for the time when Terry writes another stand-alone Shannara Epic as with his first 3 novels and the 'First King', but until then, I shall wait patiently, because I have come to know that the author can only write what they have a passion for, and nothing else -- no matter HOW much I wish them to.  Oh well.  Another winner for Mr. Brooks and another thrill ride for us Shannara fans.might have the slightest chance of returning the Ard Rhys back will fail.  Lucky for Tagwen and Pen, Shadea believes that to be Grianne's brother, Bek, who is off hunting with his wife.  This offers Pen and Tagwen the chance to escape (barely) and receive a visit from the fabled King of the Silver River (I've always wished that Terry would write more about this character, but I guess I'll have to continue to wait...).  All in all a great start to what promises to be another fantastic Shannara Trilogy.  I am also fervently waiting for the time when Terry writes another stand-alone Shannara Epic as with his first 3 novels and the 'First King', but until then, I shall wait patiently, because I have come to know that the author can only write what they have a passion for, and nothing else -- no matter HOW much I wish them to.  Oh well.  Another winner for Mr. Brooks and another thrill ride for us Shannara fans.	2003-09-16
US	47950934	R27M4IFGXHM5D6	0765304546	782404010	By Dawn's Early Light	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The new STANDARD for all future Sub techno-thrillers	I've been a long-time fan of Mr. Hagberg and I've been patiently waiting for him to give us another fast-paced submarine thriller, mostly because he just does them so well, and my patience has finally paid off with the grand slam 'By Dawn's Early Light'.  Although not bogged down with a virtual encyclopedia of unnecessary techno-babble which you can find in basically all of Clancy's novels, this story is told on several different fronts -- and believe me it M-O-V-E-S.<br />Things begin in the Bay of Bengal when a scientific research ship spots a submarine firing a green light towards space.  Unfortunately spotting this suddenly makes them an endangered species as the sub immediately opens fire on them killing all aboard but one, who is taken hostage to Pakistan.  This green light turns out to be a sophisticated laser which knocks out the optics in an American Jupiter Satellite -- the third such incident, forcing the military to accept one cold hard fact: this was NOT an accident.  What is happening in that part of the world that someone doesn't want to be seen?<br />At the same time a small group of Navy SEALs have infiltrated a test ground inside Pakistan, where they witness first hand the test-firing of their newest little toy: a city busting thermonuclear explosion.  Suddenly the tiny fuse which threatens to detonate all of the middle east becomes even shorter still.  Also we learn of a well-placed spy in the highest levels of the American Military who seems to be indiscriminately selling off VERY valuable info to the highest bidder, who at the moment seems to be Pakistan.  Before long the group of SEALs are betrayed and captured and eventually tortured in unspeakable ways.<br />The Navy's newest, quietest and deadliest sub, the Seawolf is called back on assignment even before it truly begins to assist in a mission to rescue the captured SEALs, and while the Shuttle is in orbit preparing to repair the Jupiter Satellite, run cover and stop the rogue submarine from causing further damage.  One thing the Pakistani's do NOT know is that among the captured SEALs is the Presidents own brother.  Nothing is held back in the attempt to rescue the soldiers -- but that nasty spy is handing over critical information which makes any kind of a rescue a virtual death sentence on the SEALs.  All the while the Pakistani's are planning on deploying their new Hydrogen bombs on their Indian neighbors thus throwing a match into the powder-keg that is the middle east.  The relations between India &amp; Pakistan have never been all that good, but lately they get along about as good as Israel and the rest of the Arab world.  All either of them are looking for is an excuse to do something drastic, and with the threat of thermonuclear destruction, India just might be frightened enough to jump the gun with a perilous atomic first strike on Pakistan.  The United States cannot allow this to happen, but de-fusing this situation is neither simple, nor even necessarily possible due to the current situation in the region.<br />Let's just say that despite the relatively short length, Hagberg gives us a fantastic tale of WHAT IF -- one that I fervently hope does NOT come to pass.  The end of the story leaves us hanging in several areas least of which is WHO is this spy in our military?  We NEVER find out -- which I have to admit WAS frustrating, but on the upside, it certainly provides us with the knowledge that Hagberg will be penning a sequel here in the not-too-distant future -- or at least I HOPE SO.  Quite possibly Hagbergs most all-out entertaining novel to date, 'By Dawn's Early Light' is seriously one of the best Sub techno-thrillers out there today and VERY MUCH worth the time and money.e from causing further damage.  One thing the Pakistani's do NOT know is that among the captured SEALs is the Presidents own brother.  Nothing is held back in the attempt to rescue the soldiers -- but that nasty spy is handing over critical information which makes any kind of a rescue a virtual death sentence on the SEALs.  All the while the Pakistani's are planning on deploying their new Hydrogen bombs on their Indian neighbors thus throwing a match into the powder-keg that is the middle east.  The relations between India &amp; Pakistan have never been all that good, but lately they get along about as good as Israel and the rest of the Arab world.  All either of them are looking for is an excuse to do something drastic, and with the threat of thermonuclear destruction, India just might be frightened enough to jump the gun with a perilous atomic first strike on Pakistan.  The United States cannot allow this to happen, but de-fusing this situation is neither simple, nor even necessarily possible due to the current situation in the region.  <br />Let's just say that despite the relatively short length, Hagberg gives us a fantastic tale of WHAT IF -- one that I fervently hope does NOT come to pass.  The end of the story leaves us hanging in several areas least of which is WHO is this spy in our military?  We NEVER find out -- which I have to admit WAS frustrating, but on the upside, it certainly provides us with the knowledge that Hagberg will be penning a sequel here in the not-too-distant future -- or at least I HOPE SO.  Quite possibly Hagbergs most all-out entertaining novel to date, 'By Dawn's Early Light' is seriously one of the best Sub techno-thrillers out there today and VERY MUCH worth the time and money.	2003-09-15
US	47950934	R21UQGJQCH47MH	0345465547	575274273	The Heritage of Shannara	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Overall a great addition to the incredible Shannara Epics	After reading the original 'Sword of Shannara' back in oh, I think it was '78 I have been a HUGE supporter of Terry Brooks as one of THE most talented authors working today, and easily one of the most creative.  When I first spotted 'Scions' I nearly fell over with excitement.  Even though I admit I had absolutely NO idea what the word 'Scions' meant, I didn't really care!  It said, 'Shannara' on the front and that was all I needed.  I also admit as I reached the conclusion to this first novel I had NO idea it was book 1 of a series.  I recall thinking with around 100 pages left to go, how in the WORLD could he wrap all of this up so quickly?  My answer came at the last page when I saw the notice that the story would continue in 'The Druid of Shannara'.This did two things simultaneously: INFURIATED ME for forcing me to wait an additional year to read what happens next & it made me thrilled to know that I wouldn't have to wait 4-5 years before another Shannra novel came out.<br />I felt that 'Scions' was THE PERFECT way to start off this series.  True to the history of the rich tales of the 4 Lands, the Shade of Allanon calls together the 'Scions' of the house of Shannara and charges each of them a task which on the surface seems not just difficult, but downright impossible.  Par & his brother Coll are instructed to locate the lost Sword of Shannara.  The Dark Uncle, Walker Boh is given the task of returning Paranor to the world and in so doing become a Druid himself -- which he despises, and finally Wren is charged with bringing back the Elves.  Elves, WHAT elves?  The entire Elven city of Arborlon disappeared -- literally -- years before and nobody has a clue as to what happened to them, and of course Allanon is vague at best in helping them to achieve these goals.<br />'The Druid of Shannara' has been my least favorite of all the Shannara novels and to this day I can't exactly put my finger on why that is.  Maybe it was the pace of the story of Walker traveling to Eldwist to discover the Black Elfstone in order to restore Paranor.  I was originally excited to see what would happen to him after his ill-fated trip which cost him his arm, but for some reason, the story just didn't move for me.  Maybe I need to read this one again.<br />'The Elf Queen' is one of my favorite of ALL the Shannara stories.  The voyage to the island, the travel through the jungle of demons and finally reaching the fabled destination of Arborlon was a journey well worth taking.  Truly the high point of this 4 book series.<br />'The Talismans' has probably the best opening of ANY Shannara novel to date.  Absolutely stunning the way Brooks takes us to the newly restored Druid's Keep and uses the Four Horsemen to trap Walker from leaving.  I couldn't have asked for a better way to start off this final novel in the Heritage series.  Unfortunately I've felt that with about 60 or so pages left it seemed as though the loose ends were all tied together a bit too quickly for my personal tastes, almost as if Terry was attempting to hit the deadline and wrapped things up way too fast -- but that is just MY opinion.<br />Overall the Heritage series is a great addition to the incredible Shannara Epics and 3 of the four novels are truly exceptional.  Highly recommended, especially for fantasy lovers.Eldwist to discover the Black Elfstone in order to restore Paranor.  I was originally excited to see what would happen to him after his ill-fated trip which cost him his arm, but for some reason, the story just didn't move for me.  Maybe I need to read this one again.<br />'The Elf Queen' is one of my favorite of ALL the Shannara stories.  The voyage to the island, the travel through the jungle of demons and finally reaching the fabled destination of Arborlon was a journey well worth taking.  Truly the high point of this 4 book series.<br />'The Talismans' has probably the best opening of ANY Shannara novel to date.  Absolutely stunning the way Brooks takes us to the newly restored Druid's Keep and uses the Four Horsemen to trap Walker from leaving.  I couldn't have asked for a better way to start off this final novel in the Heritage series.  Unfortunately I've felt that with about 60 or so pages left it seemed as though the loose ends were all tied together a bit too quickly for my personal tastes, almost as if Terry was attempting to hit the deadline and wrapped things up way too fast -- but that is just MY opinion.  <br />Overall the Heritage series is a great addition to the incredible Shannara Epics and 3 of the four novels are truly exceptional.  Highly recommended, especially for fantasy lovers.	2003-08-26
US	47950934	R1PKKT3610Z52	0385506686	290935571	Utopia: A Thriller	Books	5	0	1	N	N	More entertainment-per-page than 'Still Life With Crows'...	I've been a MAJOR fan of Douglas Preston & Lincoln Child ever since I finished 'Relic', still to this day one of the most exciting thrillers I've come across, so when I saw 'Utopia' I figured I couldn't go wrong -- and I was right.  Together, these two authors are incredible, so I began the novel wondering if Mr. Child could fill the gap left by Douglas Preston, and I have to say he did a mighty fine job going solo.<br />Many have called this Die Hard in a Theme Park, and that pretty much describes the story in a nutshell -- but only on the simplest of terms.  There is much more to this novel than just terrorists attempting to kill for money.  I could say that this was an above-average formula novel which never really seeks to develop anything new or revolutionary, but I just enjoyed it way too much to be anything but happy about having picked it up at the bookstore.  In fact, I enjoyed 'Utopia' quite a bit more than the most recent release by Preston & Child together, 'Still Life With Crows'.  While I have yet to read a bad novel by these talented authors, the most recent wasn't nearly as entertaining as this book was.  Besides, I don't have a problem with 'formula' novels, especially if they are done RIGHT.  Clive Cussler has used pretty much the same formula for 30 years and it hasn't hurt him, same with Michael Crichton (although 'Prey' was way too close to Jurassic Park & Timeline).<br />One thing I WOULD really like to see is a REAL version of 'Utopia' built outside of Vegas as in this tale.  It is very obvious that Mr. Child spent a great deal of time mapping out this fictional theme park down to the smallest of details and it shows.  What do the terrorists want?  What will the repercussions be if their demands aren't met?  Will the hero save the day??  I think the answer to that is obvious, but yet again, the journey through the pages to find out exactly HOW it all ends up is one well worth taking.<br />I have to say that if Lincoln Child is considering breaking off to write more solo novels, I for one will be sure to pick them up without a moments hesitation.  Oh, and this in NO WAY suggests I believe he should stop writing with Douglas Preston -- on the contrary, I am already looking forward to their next thriller.  For fans of fine brain candy, 'Utopia' ought to fit in with your reading schedule no problem.breaking off to write more solo novels, I for one will be sure to pick them up without a moments hesitation.  Oh, and this in NO WAY suggests I believe he should stop writing with Douglas Preston -- on the contrary, I am already looking forward to their next thriller.  For fans of fine brain candy, 'Utopia' ought to fit in with your reading schedule no problem.	2003-08-13
US	47950934	R3L6DQK6Y26RMD	0446531421	432548907	Still Life with Crows (Pendergast, Book 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another Rip-Snortin' Fun ride with Agent Pendergast	While not as all-out entertaining as 'The Cabinet of Curiosities' I found 'Still Life With Crows' to be another page turner that kept me entertained throughout.  I was beginning to believe that 'Relic' couldn't be topped, and no matter how many fun &amp; thrilling novels Preston &amp; Child wrote, their first seemed destined to be also their best--but then came 'Cabinet' and although they may not have exceeded 'Relic' they sure tied it for sheer thrills and all-out entertainment.  So when I found that Special Agent Pendergast would make another appearance, I was absolutely SOLD.<br />No sooner has a body been found in rural Medicine Creek, Kansas than our Special Agent makes a timely arrival.  Everything about this murder screams 'Serial Killer' but the locals of this tiny community are quick to reject this as NOBODY in this town would do something THIS horrific.  Pendergast isn't so sure.  He uses his influence as an FBI Agent to muscle his way into the investigation and soon he has acquired the help of a teenage girl who has a less than perfect reputation in the town she hates.  Another mysterious event occurs when a local's dog is found killed--but the method is what creates such confusion.  Normally Serial Killers stick with their methods of murder, and this one breaks all previously known 'standards' set forth by FBI investigators over the course of thousands of murders.  Another interesting side-line is an ancient massacre that happened in the mid 19th Century involving a calculated and devious attack on some particularly nasty cowboys by some Indians who (so the story goes) appeared like ghosts on a plain that supposedly nobody could sneak up on, and slaughtered the guilty group of 45 men who had been wreaking havoc amongst all the Indian tribes nearby...killing them all.  Thus began the famous 'Curse of the Forty-Fives' in Medicine Creek.  What does this ancient event have in connection with the murders of the present?  Finding out is half the fun.  A few unexpected characters end up falling victim to the mysterious killer, which surprised me because generally speaking, only the non-essential people get axed in stories such as this.  Although surprising, it added to the overall unpredictable nature of this great story.<br />The last 50 pages are a blur as you can't turn the pages fast enough, however--the events leading up to the major climax are somewhat slow in comparison with most of Preston &amp; Child's previous novels.  This does NOT mean 'Still Life With Crows' is NOT a great book...but when compared side-by-side with the other novels this talented duo have written, it comes up slightly short.  For fans of these novels, it is a definite MUST READ, and who knows?  YOU may enjoy this tale more than some of their other works--but what I believe most of us will agree on is that they write absolutely WONDERFUL Suspenseful novels--and Special Agent Pendergast is easily one of the best protagonists in modern fiction.  I VERY much look forward to their next thriller.expected characters end up falling victim to the mysterious killer, which surprised me because generally speaking, only the non-essential people get axed in stories such as this.  Although surprising, it added to the overall unpredictable nature of this great story.  <br />The last 50 pages are a blur as you can't turn the pages fast enough, however--the events leading up to the major climax are somewhat slow in comparison with most of Preston &amp; Child's previous novels.  This does NOT mean 'Still Life With Crows' is NOT a great book...but when compared side-by-side with the other novels this talented duo have written, it comes up slightly short.  For fans of these novels, it is a definite MUST READ, and who knows?  YOU may enjoy this tale more than some of their other works--but what I believe most of us will agree on is that they write absolutely WONDERFUL Suspenseful novels--and Special Agent Pendergast is easily one of the best protagonists in modern fiction.  I VERY much look forward to their next thriller.	2003-07-08
US	47950934	RE5FFPQEEAME2	0399150412	196052103	White Death (NUMA Files)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	These Kurt Austin tales keep getting better...	I am what you would call a MAJOR Clive Cussler Fan (all I need is a paycheck, and I'd be a Professional...) and I absolutely LOVE the Kurt Austin adventures--ALMOST as much as his counterpart Dirk Pitt.  I MUST admit 1-tiny fact: I have enjoyed the last TWO Kurt novels MORE than the most recent Dirk Pitt tale ('Valhalla Rising').  I ALMOST feel dirty admitting that, but c'mon!  It's TRUE!  For those who continue to persist that Clive puts way MORE into his stories for Dirk than he does for Kurt, well I'm beginning to think othewise.  Don't get me wrong, as long as Dirk Pitt lives on the pages of a Clive Cussler novel, he's got at least ONE die-hard reader.  He has NEVER let me down.  Sure, some novels are better than others, but they are ALL entertaining.<br />'White Death' is among his better releases (in MY opinion, anyway).  I found one thing VERY interesting as I devoured this book: it doesn't contain as much action as the average Dirk Pitt/Kurt Austin novel--which ISN'T to say that the action is absent entirely.  On the contrary, there is plenty--just not as much as I have grown accustomed to over the years--and this in NO WAY slows the story one tiny bit.  I found 'White Death' to emphasize the plot more than action, which I enjoyed tremendously.  There is never ANY doubt who will win in the end here--and as I read on, I found the topic of 'White Death' to be MUCH more entertaining than I would have normally thought possible: A modern evil Eskimo tribe plans to genetically engineer horrific 'Frankenfish' that will decimate the population of certain species of fish in the oceans--while stockpiling these same in 'Fish Farms', monopolizing the supply and making billions in the process.  Simple plan, right?  Sure--until you factor in a certain Kurt Austin and his trusty sidekick, Joe Zavala (absolute CLONES of Dirk Pitt & Al Giordino).  Joe has a more subdued roll in 'White Death' than he has in his previous adventures with Kurt--but when he does make an appearance, it usually involves chases, explosions and even a little sword-play.  Along for the ride we have a radical environmental group calles SOS (Sentinels of the Sea) and the dangerous and explosive company bent on total control of genetic fish engineering, Oceanus (a front for our evil Eskimos).<br />As usual, the beginning of the story takes us back in history, my personal favorite was an undocumented Nazi/Germany ill-fated trip to the North Pole in a massive Zeppelin.  There is MUCH to like in the pages of 'White Death' but I HAVE to admit, one particular conversation between Kurt and the leader of the Evil Eskimos had me scratching my head...NOT because it was confusing, but because it seemed forced and almost comical in how the bad guy spoke and declared he was '...the instrument of your (Kurt's) death...', other than that, I truly loved this latest outing with Kurt, Joe, Admiral Sandecker and even an appearance by Rudi Gunn.  I now long for another installment featuring Dirk, but I am thrilled that with the introduction of Kurt, I no longer have to wait a full year and a few odd months before I see something new from Cussler...All in all, 'White Death' is FINE brain candy.e, it usually involves chases, explosions and even a little sword-play.  Along for the ride we have a radical environmental group calles SOS (Sentinels of the Sea) and the dangerous and explosive company bent on total control of genetic fish engineering, Oceanus (a front for our evil Eskimos).<br />As usual, the beginning of the story takes us back in history, my personal favorite was an undocumented Nazi/Germany ill-fated trip to the North Pole in a massive Zeppelin.  There is MUCH to like in the pages of 'White Death' but I HAVE to admit, one particular conversation between Kurt and the leader of the Evil Eskimos had me scratching my head...NOT because it was confusing, but because it seemed forced and almost comical in how the bad guy spoke and declared he was '...the instrument of your (Kurt's) death...', other than that, I truly loved this latest outing with Kurt, Joe, Admiral Sandecker and even an appearance by Rudi Gunn.  I now long for another installment featuring Dirk, but I am thrilled that with the introduction of Kurt, I no longer have to wait a full year and a few odd months before I see something new from Cussler...All in all, 'White Death' is FINE brain candy.	2003-06-23
US	47950934	R3HTAE3PT2LLMD	0312263120	201960968	Digital Fortress: A Thriller	Books	5	76	111	N	N	A STUNNING debut by a FABULOUS writer!!	Like many, my first introduction to Dan Brown was through his absolutely SPECTACULAR thriller, 'The Da Vinci Code'.  After devouring that in half the time it normally takes to read a novel, I have found and read ALL of his books.  I must say, in a VERY short amount of time, he has become one of my absolute MUST HAVE authors.  ALL of his books are superior thrillers, and 'Digital Fortress' is his first great book.<br />What we as average, everyday citizens of the United States do NOT realize, is how much information we do NOT see--which is fine with me.  I trust my government NOT to tell me everything.  But when the NSA's Ultimate Super Computer comes across an encryption it cannot crack, suddenly the future of this ultra-secret organization is in serious jeopardy.  I think we would be shocked at what information they have access to.  However, I firmly believe that in order to keep us safe from dangers that we rarely (if ever) find out about, people who run these facilities NEED to exist.  Who KNOWS how many disasters organizations like the NSA has thwarted--and kept quiet about over the years.  However, for each and every person who believes the NSA SHOULD exist, there are just as many who believe that electronic eaves-dropping ought to be illegal, whether or not it ultimately makes American citizens more safe.  This is the major dilemma facing the Deputy Director of the NSA.  He has always been one of the biggest Patriots our government has ever seen, and is looking to make amends on a particular public fiasco which, although has ended, can never be forgotten.<br />TRANSLATR is THE Super Computer of Super Computers.  Able to decipher virtually ANY and ALL encrypted electronic messages.  But when one of the NSA's brightest is called in to assist the Deputy Director on a program that TRANSLATR seems incapable of cracking, the rubber hits the pavement, so-to-speak.  At first this seems absolutely IMPOSSIBLE.  But as it turns from impossible to probable and then finally to possible, the weight of what is happening suddenly becomes the biggest nightmare anyone in American Cryptology has ever experienced.  A code which is soon to be GIVEN away on the Internet--a code which is 100% UNBREAKABLE.  The conspiracy has been set, and the NSA's very life is at stake--among other things.  Immediately an unlikely College Professor is dispatched to Europe to attempt to acquire the Pass Code which will keep 'Digital Fortress' from becoming available to the free world.  While at the same time unsuspecting NSA employee's find themselves caught up inside a world-class conspiracy that the NSA Director apparently knows about, and is willing to let happen--all in the name of secrecy.  Dan Brown has built a truly fantastic tale of intrigue that rivals the techno-thrillers by Clancy, Cussler or anyone else for that matter.  What WOULD happen if a code such as 'Digital Fortress' becomes available to everyone connected to the Internet?  How could our top code-breakers help continue to ensure our safety if such an event actually happened?  TRUST me, this IS a frightening scenario.  Also, the phrase, 'DON'T trust ANYONE' applies to this story.  What you THINK is happening isn't necessarily what IS happening.  Just read it and you'll understand.  If there are any technical problems with what Dan Brown has written and actual computer software, well NOT being a computer expert myself, it all seemed pretty real to me.  I guess if I WERE an expert I might catch something somewhere, but for me, it all seemed very real in the way it was portrayed.  HIGHLY recommended, as is ALL of Dan Brown's fabulous novels.lly to possible, the weight of what is happening suddenly becomes the biggest nightmare anyone in American Cryptology has ever experienced.  A code which is soon to be GIVEN away on the Internet--a code which is 100% UNBREAKABLE.  The conspiracy has been set, and the NSA's very life is at stake--among other things.  Immediately an unlikely College Professor is dispatched to Europe to attempt to acquire the Pass Code which will keep 'Digital Fortress' from becoming available to the free world.  While at the same time unsuspecting NSA employee's find themselves caught up inside a world-class conspiracy that the NSA Director apparently knows about, and is willing to let happen--all in the name of secrecy.  Dan Brown has built a truly fantastic tale of intrigue that rivals the techno-thrillers by Clancy, Cussler or anyone else for that matter.  What WOULD happen if a code such as 'Digital Fortress' becomes available to everyone connected to the Internet?  How could our top code-breakers help continue to ensure our safety if such an event actually happened?  TRUST me, this IS a frightening scenario.  Also, the phrase, 'DON'T trust ANYONE' applies to this story.  What you THINK is happening isn't necessarily what IS happening.  Just read it and you'll understand.  If there are any technical problems with what Dan Brown has written and actual computer software, well NOT being a computer expert myself, it all seemed pretty real to me.  I guess if I WERE an expert I might catch something somewhere, but for me, it all seemed very real in the way it was portrayed.  HIGHLY recommended, as is ALL of Dan Brown's fabulous novels.	2003-06-04
US	47950934	RYRVM0GN8SNI5	0743448197	470106474	Captain's Peril (Star Trek)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A murder-mystery/trip to the past with Kirk...	I happen to have enjoyed 'Captain's Peril' quite a bit.  While it failed to be as gripping or as all-out entertaining as Shatner/Reeves-Stevens' last outing in 'Preserver', I still found it to be different, and entertaining overall.<br />Within 'Captain's Peril' are two separate stories that aren't as connected as the authors would like us believe.  Still, I enjoyed both tales.  The story begins as Kirk has strong-armed Picard into taking a joint archaeolgical-vacation on the planet Bajor.  It starts off with a perilous Orbital Skydive where one of the 'Suits' rented by Quark on DS9 seems to be a shade past its warranty and fails on Kirk.  His quick thinking, combined with Picards resourcefulness saves him, but in the process it uncovers the memory of Kirk on the original Enterprise just shortly after he took over as captain.  Spock has requested a transfer, forcing Kirk to think that his 1st officer thinks of him as incompetant.  Soon an emergency call from Starfleet forces them to the Mandylion Rift for a very interesting 'Challenge'.  Before anything ever happens of course, the action returns us back to the present where Kirk & Picard find themselves trapped in the Bajoran desert, wondering if they will survive long enough to find the ancient dig they were originally expecting to visit.  To make a long story short, they make it (was there ANY doubt?) and stumble quickly upon a murder.  The stage is now set for both captains to solve this incident, meeting opposition at every turn, and interrupted by Kirk's memory of his original 5-year mission and some interesting conversations with Spock, who is busy trying to figure out Kirk (and humans in general).<br />Personally I found the background story from years past to be more entertaining than the murder/mystery in the Bajoran desert involving a possible Cardassian/Lost Bajoran Orb cover-up.  I found myself wondering what exactly was going to happen next to Kirk and crew in the Mandylion Rift and the 'Challenge' facing them than who the murderer was.  Although I also enjoyed a very interesting debate between Kirk & Picard over the merits of the Prime Directive.  Overall I liked the story, but felt that jumping in between the two stories ultimately distracted me from the entire tale as a whole--BUT I enjoyed it enough to look forward to 'Captain's Blood' which is mentioned at the end of the story along with a teaser of just what may be in store for us in the next chapter of the saga of James T. Kirk in the world of Next Generation Star Trek.  Not bad--but not great, either.facing them than who the murderer was.  Although I also enjoyed a very interesting debate between Kirk & Picard over the merits of the Prime Directive.  Overall I liked the story, but felt that jumping in between the two stories ultimately distracted me from the entire tale as a whole--BUT I enjoyed it enough to look forward to 'Captain's Blood' which is mentioned at the end of the story along with a teaser of just what may be in store for us in the next chapter of the saga of James T. Kirk in the world of Next Generation Star Trek.  Not bad--but not great, either.	2003-05-29
US	47950934	R3ETLQNO4TYNHW	0671027379	315416156	Deception Point	Books	5	86	100	N	N	A Conspiracy Thriller that really THRILLS!	After reading the INCREDIBLE 'Da Vinci Code' and the equally exciting 'Angels & Demons' I figured I couldn't go wrong with 'Deception Point' and I was 100% RIGHT.  Dan Brown is fast becoming one of my all-time favorite authors.<br />After becoming familiar with Brown's religious thrillers, I was pleasantly surprised to find out that 'Deception Point' was entirely different--but JUST as much fun.  If you enjoy stories about conspiracies that are as big as they come, this story is definitely for YOU.<br />Rachel Sexton works for the Intelligence Community compiling information for the President.  The odd twist in this story is that we are coming up on election time and the man poised to snatch the White House from under the feet of current President Zach Herney is none other than Rachel's own estranged Father, Senator Sedgewick Sexton.  It takes some time to figure out who is indeed the bad guys in this tale--and trust me, you will probably be wrong anyway--but finding out certainly IS a great deal of the fun here.  Rachel is contacted by the President and asked to confirm for his current staff the existence of a Meteor found near the Top of the World.  Not just ANY Meteor, either.  At first Rachel is stunned that the President would be so forward and ask this of the daughter of his biggest rival.  Senator Sexton has been THE single largest thorn in the side of NASA because of their chronic overspending and multi-billion dollar failures--screw-up's that have cost the American taxpayers dearly over the years.  President Herney has been one of NASA's biggest supporters, much to his own detriment in the polls lately.  Rachel actually HAS been chosen specifically because of her relationship to his rival to make this report.  President Herney believes that this discovery will come with a great deal of skepticism, even from his own staff.  So who better to make this announcement than the daughter of the man who wants to TAKE the White House from President Herney?  Rachel agrees under a few stipulations and is off to an Ice Shelf at the North Pole.  This sets the stage for the Mother of ALL Conspiracies, and when you find out the source of WHY it was all hatched, and WHO is behind it, the surprise ought to be rather big (at least it was for me).<br />Is the Meteorite in fact real, and if not, how could NASA have possibly tricked some of the most brilliant scientific minds of the country?  Is the President IN on this possible scandal, or is he a pawn of someone infinitely more devious?  And what about Senator Sexton?  Is he who he says he is?  Are his motives clean and pure, or is he just as bad as those attempting to fraud the world?  There are some honest-to-goodness twists & turns you can expect in 'Deception Point' and a few genuine surprises along the way.  Always fun and actually quite educational about the workings of NASA and it answers the question of why don't we see more privately funded companies winning contracts to launch into space?  Get to know Dan Brown, do it today!  You will NOT be disappointed.  Highly Recommended.rees under a few stipulations and is off to an Ice Shelf at the North Pole.  This sets the stage for the Mother of ALL Conspiracies, and when you find out the source of WHY it was all hatched, and WHO is behind it, the surprise ought to be rather big (at least it was for me).<br />Is the Meteorite in fact real, and if not, how could NASA have possibly tricked some of the most brilliant scientific minds of the country?  Is the President IN on this possible scandal, or is he a pawn of someone infinitely more devious?  And what about Senator Sexton?  Is he who he says he is?  Are his motives clean and pure, or is he just as bad as those attempting to fraud the world?  There are some honest-to-goodness twists & turns you can expect in 'Deception Point' and a few genuine surprises along the way.  Always fun and actually quite educational about the workings of NASA and it answers the question of why don't we see more privately funded companies winning contracts to launch into space?  Get to know Dan Brown, do it today!  You will NOT be disappointed.  Highly Recommended.	2003-05-05
US	47950934	R1C1GRIL2VTOFW	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	126	152	N	N	An absolutely STUNNING Thriller!	My first introduction to Dan Brown was through his incredible thriller, 'The Da Vinci Code' and figured that I had missed out on his previous works, so I picked up 'Angels & Demons' the day after I finished TDVC.  This is in every way it's equal.  Every bit as compelling.  Every bit as entertaining.  Every bit as FUN.  If you enjoy solving puzzles -- especially REAL ones, than Dan Brown is an author you NEED to get to know and F-A-S-T.<br />One of the things which made this book so instantly enjoyable was one of the main characters I already knew, Robert Langdon, world famous Symbologist from 'The Da Vinci Code'.  Set aside some time to completely absorb this amazing tale, because once you start it, you will instantly be captured up in this highly addictive story.  Robert is suddenly awakened early in the morning by the Director of the worlds leading science center, CERN located in Switzerland asking for advice.  Robert is less than interested and hangs up when his fax machine spits out a picture which makes his blood run cold.  Within a few hours, he is on a quick trip to Europe (heavy emphasis on the word 'Quick').  A murder has been committed.  The victim, one of the most gifted scientist in the world has been brutally killed and the mysterious brand of the secret brotherhood of the Illuminati is left on his chest.  NOT just ANY brand either, an Ambigram, a word which can be read the same right-side-up as well as upside-down.  But Robert is convinced that the Illuminati have been disbanded for the better part of a century.  Even so, his curiosity leads him on a quest which will take up the rest of the day and open up secrets long forgotten and better left buried.<br />Somehow Dan Brown has introduced the element of Antimatter into the story in such a way as to be totally believable.  The substance in actuality has been manufactured in microscopic quantities.  It's a power source if harnessed could benefit mankind in untold ways -- however with most things the opposite is also true.  In this case Antimatter can also be a weapon of catastrophic proportions.  Just a tiny half-a-gram of Antimatter if it came in contact with literally ANYTHING, even air, would create an annhialation equal to a 5 kiloton nuclear explosion.  When some of this material is stolen from a lab in Geneva and turns up hidden somewhere inside the walls of the Vatican, the chase is on to find it before it decimates the headquaters of the worlds largest Christian Religion.  Oh, and to throw a little curve ball to the plot, the Pope has recently died and the worlds senior Cardinals have gathered for Conclave, to decide who will be elected Pontiff.  Along the way, we find out the Illuminati's ultimate goal of destroying the Catholic Church, and suddenly it all seems possible -- frighteningly possible.  When 4 of the Senior Cardinals are kidnapped and threatened to be murdered one-by-one until the Antimatter goes critical, the stakes suddenly are as serious as the Church has ever faced.<br />Let me tell you this: NOTHING is as it seems, and NOBDY is safe from suspicion.  I was absolutely convinced that one character was involved in the conspiracy and BOY was I WRONG.  The surprises are fast and many, and the trip was one well worth taking.  Catholics take note: You MAY be a little unsettled at how the Church is portrayed in 'Angels & Demons' but ultimately I believe the basic idea the author conveys is one of hope, and the Church provides that in many ways.  I will be recommending this book (as well as 'The Da Vinci Code') to ALL my friends.  HIGHLY recommended, and absolutely INCREDIBLY fun.osite is also true.  In this case Antimatter can also be a weapon of catastrophic proportions.  Just a tiny half-a-gram of Antimatter if it came in contact with literally ANYTHING, even air, would create an annhialation equal to a 5 kiloton nuclear explosion.  When some of this material is stolen from a lab in Geneva and turns up hidden somewhere inside the walls of the Vatican, the chase is on to find it before it decimates the headquaters of the worlds largest Christian Religion.  Oh, and to throw a little curve ball to the plot, the Pope has recently died and the worlds senior Cardinals have gathered for Conclave, to decide who will be elected Pontiff.  Along the way, we find out the Illuminati's ultimate goal of destroying the Catholic Church, and suddenly it all seems possible -- frighteningly possible.  When 4 of the Senior Cardinals are kidnapped and threatened to be murdered one-by-one until the Antimatter goes critical, the stakes suddenly are as serious as the Church has ever faced.<br />Let me tell you this: NOTHING is as it seems, and NOBDY is safe from suspicion.  I was absolutely convinced that one character was involved in the conspiracy and BOY was I WRONG.  The surprises are fast and many, and the trip was one well worth taking.  Catholics take note: You MAY be a little unsettled at how the Church is portrayed in 'Angels & Demons' but ultimately I believe the basic idea the author conveys is one of hope, and the Church provides that in many ways.  I will be recommending this book (as well as 'The Da Vinci Code') to ALL my friends.  HIGHLY recommended, and absolutely INCREDIBLY fun.	2003-04-17
US	47950934	R1T5S3QCU34J5E	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Truly Masterful, and INCREDIBLY Addicting!	It has been quite some time since I cracked open a novel that was as compelling as 'The Da Vinci Code'.  This is my first novel by Dan Brown, but I assure you it will not be my last.  This story headlines one incredible world-class 'What If' scenario:  What if Jesus and Mary Magdalene were married and produced children?  What if there were a secret society charged with not only keeping this as quiet as possible, but also to protect that seed at all costs?  What if the clues to the very existence of the mythical Holy Grail were contained within some of the most famous art work of Leonardo Da Vinci?  What if all this WASN'T just the fertile imagination of Dan Brown, but rather a factual group of stories tied together with a fictional premise?  Get ready for the ride of your life as 'The Da Vinci Code' opens up the world of Cryptology and Symbology in easily one of THE MOST overall entertaining novels I have read in several years.<br />What is so truly amazing about this tale is the depth of research that Dan Brown so obviously put into all of this Grail Lore and how he convincingly ties it all together.  I sat with my mouth open on many occasions as I pondered his phenomenal imagination and how he managed to put it all in one book -- and making it so compelling that you keep promising yourself that you'll stop reading...AFTER the next chapter.<br />One of the curators of the famous Louvre Museum in Paris is suddenly targeted for elimination by shadow forces that aren't what they seem to be as the story unfolds.  He is shot and left for dead, but before his life ends, he quickly leaves several clues for Sophie Neveu (his granddaughter) and Symbologist, Robert Langdon to discover.  Before he realizes what has happened, Robert finds himself the chief target for this murder and Sophie mysteriously helps him to escape, hoping to fully decipher the riddles left behind by her Grandfather.  Maybe I'm just horrible at figuring out these clues, but to my feeble mind they all seemed stunningly clever how they played out and how it led them on an adventure only to discover that the original puzzles left behind were only the beginning of a much larger list of historical clues, all of them REAL clues that have been documented over the centuries, all which lead them on a quest that just might find them discovering the legendary Holy Grail -- but it turns out NOT to be what you might think, in fact it came as a total and amazing surprise to me.  Again, what found me so impressed with this story was how all of these seemingly unconnected clues are all REAL and verifiable, and Dan Brown has managed a way to include them seamlessly in his novel.<br />From Paris to the outskirts of London, this well-told tale moves along at a frenetic pace in what I would describe as one of the best stories I have ever found.  Dan Brown should be congratulated on piecing together such a highly complicated story, all while making it completely understandable and thoroughly entertaining at the same time.  I will be recommending 'The Da Vinci Code' for a very long time to come and anxiously look forward to discovering a few of Mr. Brown's previous novels...in short, BUY THIS BOOK.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!emed stunningly clever how they played out and how it led them on an adventure only to discover that the original puzzles left behind were only the beginning of a much larger list of historical clues, all of them REAL clues that have been documented over the centuries, all which lead them on a quest that just might find them discovering the legendary Holy Grail -- but it turns out NOT to be what you might think, in fact it came as a total and amazing surprise to me.  Again, what found me so impressed with this story was how all of these seemingly unconnected clues are all REAL and verifiable, and Dan Brown has managed a way to include them seamlessly in his novel.<br />From Paris to the outskirts of London, this well-told tale moves along at a frenetic pace in what I would describe as one of the best stories I have ever found.  Dan Brown should be congratulated on piecing together such a highly complicated story, all while making it completely understandable and thoroughly entertaining at the same time.  I will be recommending 'The Da Vinci Code' for a very long time to come and anxiously look forward to discovering a few of Mr. Brown's previous novels...in short, BUY THIS BOOK.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2003-04-07
US	47950934	R3CXLQRJDQAEZ9	0312286252	454971228	Contest	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Thrills A Plenty -- but slower than Reilly's previous 3...	I've known about 'Contest' since LONG before it's most recent release.  Anyone who gets into Matthew Reilly's novels will eventually find out about his first novel that he shopped around to publishers who all said, 'No thanks' and went ahead and published it himself.  His sheer preserverance paid off when he received a contract to write 'Ice Station', his first commercial success.  A novel which completely re-wrote the book on how an action/adventure novel should be written.  I am NOT kidding when I say there is more action in the 1st 50 pages than in a DOZEN Dirk Pitt novels COMBINED.  The pacing that Reilly creates is absolutely unbelievable.  Something you have NEVER experienced before by ANY other author.  'Ice Station' was just one amazingly fun novel -- incredibly unbelievable -- but tremendously FUN.  He followed that up with my personal favorite Reilly novel to date, 'Temple'...which continued his pacing with new intensity.  He resurrected his main character from 'Ice Station' when he brought us 'Area 7' and thrilled me yet again with chase scenes that race along at warp speed.  Now I discovered that 'Contest' would be partially re-written and released globally -- at the publishers request due to Reilly's stunning popularity.  I was skeptical, but hopeful that 'Contest' would live up to his previous works.<br />I am happy to say that the plot to 'Contest' is simply FANTASTIC.  Unlike one previous reviewer who made it out that in order for your galaxy to continue to survive, you had to win the Contest, this is NOT the case.  Just one Contestant is chosen from 7 worlds to compete in The Presidian -- THE Contest.  Either you walk out the winner or you don't walk out at ALL.  Doctor Stephen Swain is sucked into what is called 'The Labyrinth' or to us mere mortals, The New York Public Library.  Stephen is an UNWILLING participant.  He was chosen against his will to participate in the Contest to either win, or like 2 other human representatives in the past, fail miserably.  But along the way a few snags cause a few problems:  Stephen's daughter, Holly, is accidentally brought along through a teleport device -- oh, and one of the Contestants has made the horrific choice to cheat, rendering all others participating in The Presidian an all but dismal chance at survival.  Along for the ride with Stephen and Holly is their Guide, Selexin, who has the unfortunate task of telling his unwilling participant about how to proceed in a Contest he doesn't want to be in, and quickly decides that as nice as Stephen Swain is, he'll most likely be one of the first to die, and if the Contestant dies, so does their Guide, which means that Selexin must die as well.  Poor Selexin.  Along the way we also find out that whoever is IN the Presidian, they must be fitted with a non removeable wrist-band which gives out specific information, such as how many Contestants are still alive, and also acts as executioner should you accidentally find yourself OUTSIDE of The Labyrinth.  It generously gives you 15 minutes to get back INSIDE before detonating.  Oh, and the ENTIRE Labyrinth is sealed with an electronic force-field not only keeping everyone competing IN but also keeping everything else OUT.  Now should you be fortunate enough to survive ALL the competitors, you then must pass one additional test:  Kill the Karanadon -- a vicious beast that alone has left at least one previous Presidian without a winner at all.<br />There is SO MUCH to 'Contest' that I could never possibly include it all here.  With that said, I still felt that it wasn't as fast paced as his previous 3 books -- but that isn't to say that it wasn't moving along a like Saturn V rocket.  On the contrary, this story moves.  All in all, I think that 'Contest' ranks above 'Ice Station' and 'Area 7' but is just slightly behind 'Temple' in overall satisfaction (this is just my opinion -- your opinion may vary).  Truly a story worth telling and even better to read.  Once again, as with ALLof Reilly's previous works, BEFORE you begin, check your believability meter at page 1 and you will then embark upon a few hours of absolute true escapism at its finest.  I anxiously await Matthew Reilly's next adventure and will pick it up without question having now added him to my short list of MUST READ Authors.  HIGHLY Recommended.L of Reilly's previous works, BEFORE you begin, check your believability meter at page 1 and you will then embark upon a few hours of absolute true escapism at its finest.  I anxiously await Matthew Reilly's next adventure and will pick it up without question having now added him to my short list of MUST READ Authors.  HIGHLY Recommended.	2003-03-10
US	47950934	R3M5Q9OQENRLR8	0446610038	30029813	1st to Die: A Novel (Women's Murder Club, No 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Patterson is in SUPERB form!	I was VERY skeptical of a James Patterson novel without Alex Cross...maybe I'm just partial, but I haven't been able to enjoy ANY of his books without him.  I suppose I have developed a great literary relationship with Cross and well, I just did NOT want to gamble on something else...but am I GLAD I DID!<br />The 1st installment of the Woman's Murder Club is 1st RATE!  Lindsay Boxer is a San Francisco detective whose life is thrown not just one, but two MAJOR curve balls all at once.  First she finds out she has a rare and life threatening blood disorder, and next, she's called in to help investigate the murder of a bride & groom on their honeymoon.  Before long she is forced to partner up with Chris Raleigh, something she hates -- at first.  Lindsay's best friend is a county coroner and after an unlikely pairing up with a feisty journalist, the Murder Club is formed.  But not before ANOTHER double murder takes place in nearby Napa...followed closely by another bride & groom taken out -- this time in Cleveland, Ohio!  Are they connected?  Lindsay is absolutely certain they are, but her health threatens to force her to either cut back on the investigation or possibly drop it altogether.<br />Just when you think the story is over -- get ready!  It's JUST beginning.  As Lindsay develops feelings for her partner, and the drive to find the murderer becomes nearly an obsession, she must come to terms with her own mortality -- and just as suddenly, she must question the results of the final outcome of the investigation.<br />Tightly plotted and loaded with great characters -- especially Lindsay Boxer and her partner -- 1st To Die is one of Patterson's best stories to date, and easily his best novel in 2 or 3 YEARS.  I am thrilled to know that there are more novels coming in this series, and I anxiously await the next installment of the Woman's Murder Club.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-20
US	47950934	R120ZU1X6Q6TX6	0671026011	430524886	The Empty Chair (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another 5-Star effort -- but not as good as Coffin Dancer	I would never have guessed that reading a book absolutely LOADED with forensic details would interest me -- but I am VERY pleased that I took the gamble with Jeffery Deaver.<br />Like many, I was first introduced to Deaver's work when I saw 'The Bone Collector' and figured that even though it was an entertaining movie, that Hollywood (as usual) took enough liberties with the plot to have rendered it not nearly as good as the book -- which in fact was the case.  Lincoln's first adventure was simply stunning.  I next went to one of my all-time favorite murder/mysteries, 'The Coffin Dancer'...a novel loaded with Deaver's trademark twists & turns and provided me with just about the best surprise ending I have read to date.  After that truly amazing literary stunt, I was absolutely hooked on Deaver.  I couldn't tell you how much I looked forward to his next voyage with Lincoln and Amelia.<br />'The Empty Chair' is pretty much everything Deaver has helped us expect out of a seriously scientific-driven murder mystery.  Lincoln, who is preparing for a risky surgery which may or may not help give him additional minor mobility gets the call to help locate the Insect Boy, who has kidnapped and is presumably getting ready to kill a young woman.  The really interesting thing about 'The Empty Chair' to me was the fact that as brilliant as Lincoln is, being out of New York -- anywhere out of New York, puts him entirely out of his element.  Knowing as much about your specific environment is what helps him solve crimes...but down South is about as far away from his comfortable surroundings as Lincoln CAN be.  This however does not stop him from his insatiable addiction to taking charge and working with whatever is available to him to solve a crime-in-progress.<br />Some may be turned off with the incredible detail of what looks to be the smallest most insignificant physical evidence, but Deaver's sheer narrative force MAKES it interesting -- if not downright fun.  I LOVE this kind of attention to seemingly tiny details, and a story featuring Lincoln & Amelia is chock full of it.  Personally I didn't find the commonly used twists & turns to be as all-out surprising as in his previous stories, but Deaver certainly IS a genius at taking note of things that us average arm-chair criminologists gloss over.  The best part is after he brings up the tiny stuff, you almost immediately realize just how important it is to the ultimate solving of the crime -- you can't always piece it together, but don't worry, Mr. Deaver does that just fine by himself.<br />All in all, 'The Empty Chair' failed to entertain me as fully as 'The Bone Collector' and 'The Coffin Dancer' but I certainly have to give Deaver his due for all of the HUGE amount of research he absolutely MUST perform in order to tie it all together forensically tiny bit by tiny bit.  Take note: IF you enjoy the show CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, pick up one of Deaver's books featuring Lincoln Rhyme, the absolute OPPOSITE of what we have come to expect out of a Hero Crime Investigator.  Just plain FUN, and HIGHLY recommended.kind of attention to seemingly tiny details, and a story featuring Lincoln & Amelia is chock full of it.  Personally I didn't find the commonly used twists & turns to be as all-out surprising as in his previous stories, but Deaver certainly IS a genius at taking note of things that us average arm-chair criminologists gloss over.  The best part is after he brings up the tiny stuff, you almost immediately realize just how important it is to the ultimate solving of the crime -- you can't always piece it together, but don't worry, Mr. Deaver does that just fine by himself.<br />All in all, 'The Empty Chair' failed to entertain me as fully as 'The Bone Collector' and 'The Coffin Dancer' but I certainly have to give Deaver his due for all of the HUGE amount of research he absolutely MUST perform in order to tie it all together forensically tiny bit by tiny bit.  Take note: IF you enjoy the show CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, pick up one of Deaver's books featuring Lincoln Rhyme, the absolute OPPOSITE of what we have come to expect out of a Hero Crime Investigator.  Just plain FUN, and HIGHLY recommended.	2003-01-29
US	47950934	R1SQR2CP7OONPA	0451410548	113754410	River of Ruin (Philip Mercer)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Grand Slam Effort from Du Brul	Clive Cussler has long held the undisputed title of Grand Master of Adventure Fiction for years...and while Jack Du Brul may not have his sights set on de-throning Cussler, his novels just may do it anyway, whether intended or not.  I discovered Jack quite by accident while shuffling through a used book store and found a copy of 'Vulcan's Forge'.  I pride myself on reading ALL kinds of books and I attempt to find new authors to read on a regular basis...the problem with this is that there just aren't very many really good adventure/fiction writers in print today.  I am happy to say that Jack Du Brul IS the REAL DEAL.<br />Over his previous novels, Du Brul has helped us become familiar with Phillip Mercer, an ordinary guy who finds himself in extraordinary situations.  Whether or not he's off the coast of Hawaii, in Alaska, Eastern Africa or Greenland, Phillip has a nasty habit of showing up at just the right time to help avert major catastrophe's.  In 'River of Ruin', Mercer begins with an attempt to purchase a very old diary at an auction in Paris.  Before long, we discover rather quickly as Du Brul literally launches us like a Tomahawk missle that Mercer has stumbled upon something quite sinister.  He doesn't know it just yet, but an unseen Chinese businessman wanted the same manuscript that Phillip came to buy.  Next thing we see a group of thugs after Phillip driving him into some very old catacombs under Paris in one of the more original chase scenes I've encountered.  Our next stop is Panama where a friend of Mercer is searching for the fabled 'Twice Stolen Treasure'...I don't know if this story is real or the result of Du Brul's fertile imagination, but I gotta tell you, it was certainly entertaining.  What Mercer finds at their base camp just off the River of Ruin is shocking: everyone dead, except for a young boy.  But the REAL story is in what killed them.  I won't reveal that little bit of fun, you'll have to find out for yourself...but rest assured, the story is only JUST beginning at this point.<br />The Chinese are attempting something truly horrific with the Panama Canal, all in an attempt to keep the United States out of their business when they invade Taiwan.  The plan is truly creative and the way Du Brul lays it out, you have to give him credit for such an original idea, and wonder at the same time if it isn't actually possible (let's HOPE not).  Along the way is action-a-plenty, but that's a given in any novel featuring Phillip Mercer.  The ever smoking and wise-cracking Harry has his biggest role since 'The Medusa Stone' and pulls a rather extravagant practical joke off on Mercer (a true work of art).  Phillip's new love interest is his equal in many ways and adds plenty to an already way above average story.<br />What exactly IS the future of the Panama Canal?  How are the Chinese planning on disrupting the traffic through the canal?  And better yet: WHY are they planning this major operation?  Finding out is truly the best part of any well written story and with 'River of Ruin' Du Brul makes that journey one well worth taking.  Easily on par with ANY of Dirk Pitt's famous adventures.  Like I said, he may not be planning on taking over the crown of Adventure Fiction from Clive Cussler, but at the rate his novels are progressing, it WILL happen, like it or not.  I choose to like it.  I will always be a Cussler fan, but Jack Du Brul is now my favorite action/adventure author...a roll he has definitely earned.  Well done and HIGHLY recommended.e story is only JUST beginning at this point.  <br />The Chinese are attempting something truly horrific with the Panama Canal, all in an attempt to keep the United States out of their business when they invade Taiwan.  The plan is truly creative and the way Du Brul lays it out, you have to give him credit for such an original idea, and wonder at the same time if it isn't actually possible (let's HOPE not).  Along the way is action-a-plenty, but that's a given in any novel featuring Phillip Mercer.  The ever smoking and wise-cracking Harry has his biggest role since 'The Medusa Stone' and pulls a rather extravagant practical joke off on Mercer (a true work of art).  Phillip's new love interest is his equal in many ways and adds plenty to an already way above average story.  <br />What exactly IS the future of the Panama Canal?  How are the Chinese planning on disrupting the traffic through the canal?  And better yet: WHY are they planning this major operation?  Finding out is truly the best part of any well written story and with 'River of Ruin' Du Brul makes that journey one well worth taking.  Easily on par with ANY of Dirk Pitt's famous adventures.  Like I said, he may not be planning on taking over the crown of Adventure Fiction from Clive Cussler, but at the rate his novels are progressing, it WILL happen, like it or not.  I choose to like it.  I will always be a Cussler fan, but Jack Du Brul is now my favorite action/adventure author...a roll he has definitely earned.  Well done and HIGHLY recommended.	2003-01-13
US	47950934	ROC2SVKOZEGU6	0765303191	637009185	Before the Cradle Falls	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very cool Sci-Fi/Supernatural/Murder/Mystery Thriller...	Having read James F. David's previous books (Footprints of Thunder, Fragments & Ship of the Damned) I knew that I would be reading his latest, and with 'Before The Cradle Falls' David has come up with his most creative and entertaining tale yet.<br />The story begins full force with Detective Kyle Sommers getting a surprise phone call in the middle of the night to come take a look at a murder scene.  Kyle is surprised to get this call for one major reason: since his daughter's death and subsequent divorce, he hasn't been doing well -- what with the extended drinking and hallucinations and all.  Almost immediately things look a little funny.  A young girl is murdered, and left in her hand is a toy rattle...the signature of a serial child killer known as the 'Cradle Robber' who started his sickening spree in San Diego and has steadily moved up the West Coast until arriving in Portland, Oregon.  But an odd note left by an old man wearing an overcoat and a large hat has cast a large and strange shadow over the investigation.  In the cryptic note, it gives details about the crime, but some did not happen the way it actually panned out.<br />Before long, the old man with the coat and hat show up at various near-tragedies in and around the Portland area seemingly bent on stopping crimes BEFORE they happen.  As Kyle is put in charge of the 'Cradle Robber' task force, he realizes that many in the department have lost all faith in his ability to do good police work, so he is the first to reject the time traveler theory when it first comes to light.  But how can you explain the sudden appearance of the old man in so many places where crimes are JUST about to happen?  Is he causing the so-called coincidences himself?  Is he the Cradle Robber, or is he working together with him to throw the police off track?<br />VERY interesting theories, and one incredibly engaging plot keep this story moving along in several directions at once, but don't worry, David keeps a tight reign on everything and he knows exactly where to take us.  Kyle's reluctant sidekick, Sherrie Nolan provides us with plenty to think about as well as comic relief.  Time Travel just isn't possible, according to a Professor at Portland State University, but the more Kyle & Sherrie probe into the Cradle Robber case, the more it seems impossible NOT to believe.  Why is the old man being such a Good Samaritan in the first place...and if he can travel back and do some good at this point, why can't he put this same technology to use and go back and save Kyle's daughter, Shelby from her own tragic death?  According to Sherrie, altering the time-line can and WILL have catastrophic effects on the environment -- on the scale of a nuclear explosion.  The major problem that Kyle is having with the time-line theory is that it's just a THEORY.  Since time travel is not even supposed to be possible, how can anyone propose a theory about altering the time-line when traveling through it isn't even possible?  A LOT of questions like this are raised along with some moral questions about helping someone live when without the interference of time travel they would have otherwise died.  Can we and should we do something if we know that we could avert a disaster?  'Before The Cradle Falls' is a great amusement park ride with all the thrills and chills in all the right places, and I might add, a very nice ending to boot.<br />On a side note, having grown up near the Portland area, I was VERY pleased how the city itself became a character in the story...everything from the locations to the local mini-marts that are exclusive to the Portland area.  It put a smile on my face several times while reading this great tale.  HIGHLY recommended.n everything and he knows exactly where to take us.  Kyle's reluctant sidekick, Sherrie Nolan provides us with plenty to think about as well as comic relief.  Time Travel just isn't possible, according to a Professor at Portland State University, but the more Kyle & Sherrie probe into the Cradle Robber case, the more it seems impossible NOT to believe.  Why is the old man being such a Good Samaritan in the first place...and if he can travel back and do some good at this point, why can't he put this same technology to use and go back and save Kyle's daughter, Shelby from her own tragic death?  According to Sherrie, altering the time-line can and WILL have catastrophic effects on the environment -- on the scale of a nuclear explosion.  The major problem that Kyle is having with the time-line theory is that it's just a THEORY.  Since time travel is not even supposed to be possible, how can anyone propose a theory about altering the time-line when traveling through it isn't even possible?  A LOT of questions like this are raised along with some moral questions about helping someone live when without the interference of time travel they would have otherwise died.  Can we and should we do something if we know that we could avert a disaster?  'Before The Cradle Falls' is a great amusement park ride with all the thrills and chills in all the right places, and I might add, a very nice ending to boot.<br />On a side note, having grown up near the Portland area, I was VERY pleased how the city itself became a character in the story...everything from the locations to the local mini-marts that are exclusive to the Portland area.  It put a smile on my face several times while reading this great tale.  HIGHLY recommended.	2003-01-01
US	47950934	R2CFDP56AA05ZX	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	25	28	N	N	5-stars for fun -- 4 stars for re-tooling Jurassic Park...	First off, I'm a die-hard Michael Crichton fan...absolutely LOVE his stuff...however -- 'Prey' is definitely a 'formula' novel...most notably a Crichton formula novel which borrow extensively from previous works like 'Jurassic Park' & 'Timeline'.  If you have read many of his other novels, this formula will become immediately apparent: Big corporation is messing with technology they don't fully understand nor appreciate, and in the process unleash something baaaad.  First it was the Dinosaurs when InGen toyed around with genetic manipulation where they shouldn't have...next we have a very similar company in 'Timeline' that wanted to send the elite on once-in-a-lifetime trips through time, using science again that was a bit beyond our control and now we have nanotechnology in 'Prey' that provides a frightening look at what *could* happen should this kind of near-future science fall into the hands of those who attempt to use it for all the wrong reasons.<br />Just because Crichton is using his 'formula' here, that doesn't mean he doesn't provide us with some great cliff-hangers and genuine surprises along the way...his writing talent is far too refined to have forgotten how to pull a few strings with the readers.  'Prey' begins with poor Jack, a reluctant house-husband with a wife who has quickly become one of the powerhouse leaders at Xymos (you guessed it, the 'big corporation' that funds experiments that go horribly wrong).  Her sudden and suspiciously odd actions make Jack begin to suspect that she (Julia) just might be having an affair.  He pushes this thought away every time more and more evidence begins to mount that this is no longer a theory and more likely a fact.  Her behavior seems erratic (at best), distant with him and the children and she tells small (but significant) lies which unravel the fabric of their relationship.  All this is shockingly interrupted when Julia is involved in an accident which sends her to the hospital.  Meanwhile an incredibly un-expected invitation by his former boss (who fired him under trumped up charges) is offered to Jack asking him to come back (sort of) to help Xymos figure out how to solve a problem with a program that Jack's technical team had designed some time before.  At first Jack is totally against going back under ANY circumstances...but as the problem with Julia becomes more of an immediate concern, he figures that maybe he could find out more about her supposed affair by accepting the offer.<br />This is where the rubber hits the pavement, so-to-speak.  This is where Jack becomes immersed in the world of nanoswarms, produced by Xymos for the Military to spy on the enemy.  As in all of Crichton's novels, nothing is as it seems, and the people who give the tours of the production facility know a lot more than they are letting on (always to the suspicion of those on the receiving end of the tour).  Jack has reason to believe Ricky (the tour-guide) is holding back crucial information on the little problem they have come up against.  It appears that the company has made a once-in-a-lifetime scientific breakthrough which has allowed them to begin full production of machines on the molecular level.  Millions of microscopic machines were accidentally vented to the Nevada environment and have a peculiar problem:  they won't come back...they seem to be multiplying on their own (which they just shouldn't be able to do)...they seem to be killing desert animals...oh, and they were programmed using a predator/prey program that Jack and his former team-mates created.  Just about everything that Ricky says turns out to be half-truths or outright lies from pretty much the beginning.  Jack almost immediately has a plan that nobody had previously thought about which will eliminate the nanoswarms...but if you know the typical Michael Crichton novel, you know that first, and even second plans usually go horribly wrong.  What exactly is Ricky hiding from Jack and just about everyone else?  How are the nanoswarms able to multiply?  How are they developing behavior that their programming says should be 100% impossible?  How is Jack's wife, Julia embroiled in all of this, and is she really having an affair?  And the biggest question of all: Can the nanoswarms be stopped...and if so, how?<br />Good questions and for the sheer fun of the story I gave 'Prey' 5 stars, but for re-telling a story told before in 'Jurassic Park' and 'Timeline' I give it just 4 stars.  Perfectly enjoyable even despite my reservations and I very much look forward to the future movie at the local cineplex, it ought to be a real nail-biter.e the nanoswarms able to multiply?  How are they developing behavior that their programming says should be 100% impossible?  How is Jack's wife, Julia embroiled in all of this, and is she really having an affair?  And the biggest question of all: Can the nanoswarms be stopped...and if so, how?<BR>Good questions and for the sheer fun of the story I gave 'Prey' 5 stars, but for re-telling a story told before in 'Jurassic Park' and 'Timeline' I give it just 4 stars.  Perfectly enjoyable even despite my reservations and I very much look forward to the future movie at the local cineplex, it ought to be a real nail-biter.	2002-12-06
US	47950934	R2VMC0TNUZ7TS2	0553582402	947484554	Thunder in the Deep: A Novel of Undersea Military Action and Adventure	Books	5	5	6	N	N	5 Stars for the Fun -- but captains leading raids??	'Thunder In The Deep' is Joe Buff's 2nd novel of undersea submarine warfare after 'Deep Sound Channel' -- which was superb, by the way.  I so much enjoyed his first book that I just could NOT wait for the sequel -- but lucky for me, I hadn't discovered Buff until just before 'Thunder' was released, so my wait wasn't long.<br />Captain Jeffrey Fuller, Now in charge of the Challenger, the United States most sophisticated undersea weapon, we get a more detailed 'insiders view' of what life in a sub is like.  Although I MUST admit that the plausibility of sending the Captain out on a raid is far from acceptable fiction -- it might work for Jim Kirk in the science fiction world of Star Trek, but a REAL Navy sub captain?  Sorry, but I'm not gonna swallow that one.  Now this may seem overly critical of Mr. Buff, but hear me out on this: his novels have the ring of authenticity to them SO MUCH that when I come across something SO off the beaten path of reality (yes, even in a fictional novel), well I can't help but scream FOUL.  However, all that aside, this is simply put a fantastic adventure yarn.  If you were hooked on submarine warfare because of Tom Clancy or Michael DiMercurio, give in and pick up 'Deep Sound Channel' and 'Thunder In The Deep' today.  Exceptional thrills and chills in a near-future war with a brand new threat provided by Germany and South Africa.  I echo another reviewers worry about the trivial love story jammed in between a classic war story -- it didn't work for the movie 'Pearl Harbor' and it doesn't work too well here, either.  But again, I enjoyed the overall novel SO much that I was able to overlook these small problems in favor of the all around 'thriller factor' that the book gave me.  Can't wait to read 'Crush Depth'!	2002-11-08
US	47950934	R1UFRHPNXL49QL	0312982518	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Flashback to when Ludlum wrote TRUE thrillers...	...'The Sigma Protocol' is like taking a time machine back to when Ludlum could do no wrong when it came to writing books which took your average everyday person (or maybe above average spy) and placed them in impossible situations against a global conspiracy which threatened peace on either part of or all of the planet.  I am happy to say that whether or not a shadow writer helped to fine tune whatever script Ludlum left before he passed away makes no difference to me.  All the elements of what made him my all-time favorite thriller author are still in place in 'The Sigma Protocol'.  Fast pacing.  Incredibly choreographed chase scenes that rival ANYTHING ever put on film...oh, and the bodies pile up.  Make NO mistake about that...when it comes to reading a book by Robert Ludlum, you can ALWAYS expect bullets to be flying, many of which hit their targets, producing dead folk left and right.  While this may not sit well with those who are allergic to graphic violence, it was always one of the things that I enjoyed about these books.  Are some of the characters less than two dimensional?  Yes...but you can say the same about pretty much all of his books.  Some of the dialogue can sound forced and Ludlum always put way too many !!exclamation points in his stories, and sometimes the swearing got waaay out of hand to the point that it no longer served any purpose because the characters were using it so often that it no longer made a difference to the story.  All this aside, taking the novel as a whole, 'The Sigma Protocol' is another winning entry in Ludlum's long list of adventures in global conspiracies!!  I very much look forward to 'The Janson Directive'!!	2002-11-07
US	47950934	R1Q6IWPLY4NZIA	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	ANOTHER Home Run from two exceptional authors	I have a small list of \\"MUST READ\\" authors, and Douglas Preston & Lincoln Child are ON that list.  'The Cabinet of Curiosities' is easily one of my favorite novels from these two incredibly gifted storytellers.  It also reunites 3 characters from several of their previous novels.<br />FBI Agent Pendergast is without-a-doubt one of my favorite characters in ALL of modern fiction...I'd go into details and explain more, but I'd need a whole lot more room than I have available here.<br />Journalist Bill Simithback, who is mostly referred to in 'Cabinet' as William, certainly provides a great deal to this tale, especially towards the end.<br />Nora Kelly, whom we first got to know in the fantastic, 'Thunderhead'.<br />All three characters play pivotal roles in what is at once a modern murder/mystery/thriller masterpiece with supernatural undertones.  Has a mad scientist actually perfected a formula for extending life?  Dr. Enoch Leng seems to be one of the most brutal and sadistic serial killers in American history, but he doesn't murder for the joy of taking life, his profoundly disturbing experiments come to light quite by accident when a century-old crime scene is uncovered in lower Manhattan.  Agent Pendergast shows up out of nowhere with a curiously obsessive interest in the murders -- which we won't get to figure out until right towards the very end.  He pulls Nora Kelly away from her duties at the New York Museum of Natural History...at first she is totally puzzled at why she of all people is called in to help.  What could Pendergast possibly hope to accomplish in solving this crime?  Surely the killer has been dead for half-a-century by now...right?  His connection to Enoch Leng and his bizarre scientific research is quite an interesting one, THAT'S for sure.<br />There are a few true surprises at the end of this tale, and getting there certainly WAS a journey well worth taking.  ...<br /> ... Because like I said, I have a very small list of \\"Must Read\\" authors, and after having read ALL of their books thus far, they have EARNED that right in my opinion by continuously writing incredible novels of adventure & mystery.  GREAT read!!thors, and after having read ALL of their books thus far, they have EARNED that right in my opinion by continuously writing incredible novels of adventure & mystery.  GREAT read!!	2002-11-05
US	47950934	R19KG6FUQ75TBT	0553582399	773992942	Deep Sound Channel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First Clancy -- then DiMercurio...NOW it's Joe Buff	I got my first glimpse into the facinating world of submarines (at least my first serious one) when I read Clancy's 'Hunt For Red October' back in the late 80's.  I have been interested in sub novels ever since.  The main problem is there are only a small number of good sub authors in print today.  When I discovered Michael DiMercurio I found exactly what I was looking for.  But again, these good authors can't produce a new novel as often as I finish them, therefore I kept looking.  FINALLY!!  I came across 'Joe Buff' and his amazing first novel, &quot;Deep Sound Channel&quot; and I am hooked all over again.<br />The near-future war between the Allies &amp; the (new) Axis is a terribly frightening one...one in which nuclear weapons ARE being used -- too frequently.  The USS Challenger is a ceramic-hulled Virginia Class SSN that is the next generation of super-quiet subs that can deliver incredible blows to the enemy.  I found the main storyline quite interesting:  Infiltrate an enemy biological weapons facility and turn it into nuclear dust, otherwise the outcome of the war just may turn in unwanted directions.  The greatest strength that Buff has is his ability to make us feel like we are RIGHT THERE in the midst of the action in the CACC of the Challenger...sweating right along with the crew.  Even coming upon the wreck of other subs can be hair raising.  Joe Buff has quickly become one of the shining stars in the field of the submarine techno-thriller right along DiMercurio and Clancy (although Tom hasn't done an all-out sub novel since Red October).<br />If you enjoy a thrilling time inside the walls of a nuclear submarine, give yourself a gift and buy Joe Buff's books (also including: 'Thunder In The Deep' &amp; 'Crush Depth') and sit back and relax (as best you can) and allow the theater of your mind to play out the tremendously fun adventure set within the pages of his books.  Highly recommended.	2002-10-14
US	47950934	R1Z5D8JJ6LCEO6	0345435729	798168467	Morgawr (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	GREAT ending to an outstanding series!	The start of this series (Ilse Witch) began with an incredible BANG!! if you ask me.  Antrax slowed down just a bit, but continued the 'Voyage' series with some gusto, all while doing it in a very different vein than all of the usual 'Shannara' novels of the past.  It's the main reason why Terry Brooks has so many fans to begin with, continuously writing novels of high caliber.<br />Morgawr wraps up the entire 'Voyage' series nicely, and does it by revealing a lot more about this mysterious creature who adopted the Ilse Witch as his protege.  Is he powerful?  Absolutely.  What does he want?  Absolute revenge against the Ilse Witch for what he views as her betrayal against him.  At the end of Antrax Redden Alt Mer and the crew of the Jerle Shannara see not just one or two, but a fleet of airships coming out of the clouds towards them...at the beginning of Morgawr, we travel back to the Four Lands and see the organization of that fleet by the shifty creature himself and how he went about crewing such a large number of ships with a group of the Living Dead.  This portion of the novel was a little more graphic than any other previous Brooks novel I can think of, but incredibly riviting at the same time.  This Morgawr is just a really nasty individual, and he REALLY wants Bek's sister in a bad way.<br />Along the way we get to see the Elven Prince come into his own, even though he spends a good portion of the novel wondering if Ryer Ord Starr has betrayed him.  Ultimately what we THOUGHT was the original reason for the long voyage to Parkasia turns out to be something else entirely.  The so called Books of Magic they came to find become beyond reach after Walker defeated Antrax at the end of book 2...so what WAS the purpose of the voyage?  This is where I think I differ in my opinion over those of many others who felt cheated at how Morgawr ends.  Was it a big surprise?  Not really, since one or two reviewers felt it necessary to reveal more than they should have while giving us their opinions of the book...but all things considered, I felt satisfied at the entire story as a whole.  I very much hope to see Redden Alt Mer again and I'll be downright disappointed if Rue Meridian doesn't make another appearance in the next series due out Fall of '03.<br />One important thing to consider, however: The end of Morgawr is very much like the beginning to another chapter, and leaves you wondering where the next series is planning on going.  I kept thinking at first that my book was missing a few pages, but it all fell into place after a moment.  My hats off to Terry Brooks and his terrific addition to the world of Shannara.  I have long ago stopped thinking that I know what is best for a series of novels...If Terry wants to continue, than great.  It is HIS imagination, and I think it best if he writes it however he wishes.  All I know is if it has HIS name on it, I'll be buying it for as long as he continues to write.giving us their opinions of the book...but all things considered, I felt satisfied at the entire story as a whole.  I very much hope to see Redden Alt Mer again and I'll be downright disappointed if Rue Meridian doesn't make another appearance in the next series due out Fall of '03.  <br />One important thing to consider, however: The end of Morgawr is very much like the beginning to another chapter, and leaves you wondering where the next series is planning on going.  I kept thinking at first that my book was missing a few pages, but it all fell into place after a moment.  My hats off to Terry Brooks and his terrific addition to the world of Shannara.  I have long ago stopped thinking that I know what is best for a series of novels...If Terry wants to continue, than great.  It is HIS imagination, and I think it best if he writes it however he wishes.  All I know is if it has HIS name on it, I'll be buying it for as long as he continues to write.	2002-09-23
US	47950934	RE1SW27ZUTED3	0345453751	932841635	The Sword of Shannara Trilogy	Books	5	28	34	N	N	Now THIS is what Fantasy is ALL about!	The Sword of Shannara came out in 1977, but I waited a whole year before a friend of mine challenged me to read what was (at the time) the largest book I had ever opened.  I wasn't much of a reader at the time, but what little I did was mostly science fiction, and I didn't really have any kind of interest in fantasy whatsoever.  However, it was a challenge I took, and one I am truly glad I accepted.  This was the book that seriously hooked me on a lifetime of reading.  It was JUST what I was looking for, but I didn't realize it until I started to read it.  I will always love books, and Terry Brooks novels in particular, but if it weren't for his original novel, I'm not entirely sure I'd be a reader today.<br />In the Sword of Shannara, we learn of Shea Ohmsford & his brother Flick in quiet Shady Vale in the Four Lands...an area virtually sheltered from the rest of the Country, and one where manifestations of dark magic rarely (if ever) come to light.  But one day the peace that Shea & Flick have known all their lives is suddenly shattered when Allanon, last of the magical Druids stops to talk specifically to Shea about his bloodline and how he is the last of the Shannara line who can wield the fabled Sword of Shannara against the Warlock Lord.  One of the reasons I LOVE this novel was the beginning where Allanon relates a great deal of history of the Four Lands and the creation of the Sword to destroy the former Druid, Brona.  The story is quite detailed all without losing the urgency for the need of Shea to act quickly.  Reluctantly Shea takes off on the adventure of a thousand lifetimes to help rid the world of the Warlock Lord on his quest to subjugate all within the Four Lands.<br />The Elfstones is personally my favorite of all the fantastic Shannara novels.  If you read the original Sword you know that the Elfstones were given to Shea Ohmsford, and subsequently passed on down until Wil Ohmsford now has them.  Again Allanon makes an unscheduled surprising visit to convince young Wil that his help is absolutely VITAL to help in banishing the hordes of demons who are about to pour into the Four Lands.  What many just don't realize is that the sacred tree, The Ellcry's was created thousands of years before by Elvin Magic to banish the demons behind a magical wall called the Forbidding.  The Ellcrys is finally beginning to die out, and chooses one of its caretakers to go on a quest to restore it back to life...all with the help of Allanon and Wil Ohmsford and the Elfstones.  This quest is simply fantastic.  Allanon makes his most visible appearance in the Elfstones helping to lead an army of Elves against the onslaught of demons breaking free of the failing wall of the Forbidding into the Four Lands.  The battle scenes are incredible and tremendously entertaining.  Simply one of the greatest Fantasy stories in print in this, or any other generation.<br />The Wishsong is mighty close to the Elfstones, but falls short by a tiny margin.  Again a decendant of the house Ohmsford is asked (again) by Allanon to assist in helping the Four Lands battle a new incarnation of evil.  Mord Wraiths have control of the Ildatch, ancient tome of evil magic, and are using it to poison the Four Lands, beginning with the Eastland.  This time our protagonist isn't a man, or even a boy.  SHE'S an Ohmsford, but Brin is anything but your typical girl.  She was born with the gift of the Wishsong (or curse, depending on how you look at it).  Brin & her younger brother, Jair have this gift, which manifests itself differently in each of them.  There are many memorable characters introduced in the Wishsong, including Slanter the Dwarf, Garret Jax the Weapon's Master and Kimber Boh (yes, related to Walker Boh, future Druid).  Both Brin AND Jair begin a journey to help destroy the Ildatch -- but separately -- Brin believing she left her young brother home, and Jair believing that somehow he MUST help Brin otherwise her quest with Allanon is doomed to fail.<br />ALL 3 stories are incredible tales told to near perfection.  Recently I read an interview with Terry Brooks when he was asked if he is a better writer today than he was when he first started 25 years ago.  He responded by saying, (in effect) 'I'm a better writer, but not necessarily a better storyteller' and while his writing improves with each tale, he has been hard pressed to improve upon his first three books.  Epic Fantasy done RIGHT... THIS is what Fantasy is ALL about.<br />ALL 3 stories are incredible tales told to near perfection.  Recently I read an interview with Terry Brooks when he was asked if he is a better writer today than he was when he first started 25 years ago.  He responded by saying, (in effect) 'I'm a better writer, but not necessarily a better storyteller' and while his writing improves with each tale, he has been hard pressed to improve upon his first three books.  Epic Fantasy done RIGHT... THIS is what Fantasy is ALL about.	2002-09-03
US	47950934	RIDZJ1E5DSS3Q	0345356365	722626928	3: The Wishsong of Shannara (The Shannara Chronicles)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A true feast for Fantasy Readers everywhere...	When I immediately finished 'Wishsong' I felt it was my all-time favorite fantasy novel...I have since re-evaluated my list of favorite novels in this particular genre, and while my list of books has grown by quite a bit over the years, 'Wishsong' STILL remains one of the most entertaining novels I have ever read.  I have come to rank 'Elfstones' as my personal #1, but this one comes in a VERY close 2nd place overall.<br />Terry Brooks has taken a new and fresh approach to fantasy writing and how magic works with the creation of a power that is envoked using the talent of singing.  Brin &amp; Jair Ohmsford both have been born with the use of the Wishsong as a result of their Father having used the Elfstones in his quest to banish the Demons behind the wall of Forbidding many years before.  To Brin &amp; Jair, it is just a simple fun magical tool they play with when their Father isn't watching...but when Allanon makes one of his historic visits to the house Ohmsford, suddenly the power of the Wishsong is no longer a funny little magical abnormality, but a serious tool with which Allanon wishes to use in order to crush the Mord Wraiths on their path to destroying the Four Lands.<br />Before long, Brin joins Allanon and heads to the Eastland in the skeptical hope that somehow, someway she can help.  Coming along as her personal protector is another of the House of Leah, Rone.  He takes the job of protecting Brin VERY seriously, and no more trusts the dark Druid anymore than Brin's Father does.  As a tremendously fun side story, young Jair finds out that he is to be instrumental in helping his sister succeed in destroying the Ildatch, the book with which the Mord Wraiths are gaining secrets of using magic for dark purposes.  Before long, Jair is captured and forced East.  His uneasy friendship with Slanter, the Dwarf, starts out very innocently, but by the end of the story, Slanter becomes one of the best characters in all of the Shannara stories (in my opinion).  We also meet Garet Jax, the Weapons Master who also plays a pivotal role in helping Allanon, Brin, Rone Leah and Jair.  There are so many wonderful characters fleshed out in 'Wishsong' that I consider it one of the best of Terry Brooks' novels in character development.  We also meet one of Walker Boh's decendants in Kimber and a very large Moore Cat which you can't help but like.  All in all, there is very little NOT to like in this 3rd outing in the world of Shannara.  This is truly a wonderful adventure told in a wonderful style.  Of all of Terry's amazing books (and he has many), as I said earlier, this is easily one of his best.  I also must admit that I like the fact that unlike his later stories which contain cliffhangers at the end, his first 3 novels were self-contained, which is a tremendous plus for THIS reader.  HIGHLY recommended.also meet Garet Jax, the Weapons Master who also plays a pivotal role in helping Allanon, Brin, Rone Leah and Jair.  There are so many wonderful characters fleshed out in 'Wishsong' that I consider it one of the best of Terry Brooks' novels in character development.  We also meet one of Walker Boh's decendants in Kimber and a very large Moore Cat which you can't help but like.  All in all, there is very little NOT to like in this 3rd outing in the world of Shannara.  This is truly a wonderful adventure told in a wonderful style.  Of all of Terry's amazing books (and he has many), as I said earlier, this is easily one of his best.  I also must admit that I like the fact that unlike his later stories which contain cliffhangers at the end, his first 3 novels were self-contained, which is a tremendous plus for THIS reader.  HIGHLY recommended.	2002-08-30
US	47950934	R1P7JT35XYC8U8	0345285549	238137791	The Elfstones of Shannara (Shannara, No. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terry Brooks' TRUE Masterpiece	When all is said and done, Terry Brooks will go down in history as one of THE most influential Fantasy authors of ALL time...and whether you like him or not, you simply cannot sell millions of books because you write poorly.  When I first saw 'Elfstones' I was casually walking past the Walden's Bookstore in Clackamas, Oregon in 1982 and it took me entirely by surprise.  I was totally NOT expecting a sequel at all to the fun and exciting 'Sword'.  I immediately picked up a copy and went to pay for it without realizing I simply had NO money in my wallet.  Poor me.  It took 3 agonizing days before I rounded up what it took to purchase 'Elfstones' and I went directly home to devour it as quickly as I could.<br />To this day, I still believe this to be the BEST of all the Shannara books, and Terry Brooks best work to date.  'Wishsong' comes VERY close, but not quite.  Wil Ohmsford, son of Shea receives an unsettling visit from the enigmatic Allanon in Shady Vale and his Uncle Flick becomes seriously worried.  Still unable to fathom the unbelievable quest Allanon had Shea & he embark upon years before, Flick desperately attempts to convince Wil NOT to follow Allanon's council to help the Four Lands conquer the impending Demon invasion.  Fortunate for the story's sake, Wil heads out towards Arborlon to assist in whatever capacity he is able, in helping to restore the ancient Ellcry's which was forged untold centuries before from the magic of the Elves to ward away the demons behind a magical wall called the Forbidding.  Poor Wil has NO clue as to what he will encounter or the price he will have to pay in order to fulfill his charge from Allanon.  He is teamed with one of The Chosen (Amberle) to take a seed from the Ellcrys to the Bloodfire and along the way fight off some pretty nasty Demons who have managed to get through the Forbidding which is failing daily.  To help him in this incredible journey are the Elfstones originally given to his Father, Shea when he went on his quest for the Sword of Shannara.  Even though he has NO idea exactly HOW to use the Elfstones, he bravely strives to do the right thing, again and again, putting his life in peril along the entire journey.  The relationship with Amberle is handled quite well, and you can feel for the dangers that beset them all along their path.  Meanwhile Allanon, who plays a much more prominent role in this book than in any other, leads the Elves farther West to do battle with the Demons as they slowly at first, and then ultimately pour out of the failing Forbidding into the world with horrific consequences.  Their goal?  To utterly decimate ALL living beings, whether they be Elves, Humans, Trolls or Dwarves.  They are led by the Dagda Mor, an evil demon with amazing power, and the battles between himself and Allanon are nothing short of spectacular.<br />'The Elfstones of Shannara' is everything a true Fantasy novel should be: exciting, magical, frightening, swift-moving and utterly original.  Terry Brooks opens up his incredible imagination with 'Elfstones' and briefly, while you plow through its pages, you will be captured into easily one of the best Fantasy novels written in the 20th century, and one of the best I have ever read.  Not just good, but GREAT reading and HIGHLY recommended.his quest for the Sword of Shannara.  Even though he has NO idea exactly HOW to use the Elfstones, he bravely strives to do the right thing, again and again, putting his life in peril along the entire journey.  The relationship with Amberle is handled quite well, and you can feel for the dangers that beset them all along their path.  Meanwhile Allanon, who plays a much more prominent role in this book than in any other, leads the Elves farther West to do battle with the Demons as they slowly at first, and then ultimately pour out of the failing Forbidding into the world with horrific consequences.  Their goal?  To utterly decimate ALL living beings, whether they be Elves, Humans, Trolls or Dwarves.  They are led by the Dagda Mor, an evil demon with amazing power, and the battles between himself and Allanon are nothing short of spectacular.<br />'The Elfstones of Shannara' is everything a true Fantasy novel should be: exciting, magical, frightening, swift-moving and utterly original.  Terry Brooks opens up his incredible imagination with 'Elfstones' and briefly, while you plow through its pages, you will be captured into easily one of the best Fantasy novels written in the 20th century, and one of the best I have ever read.  Not just good, but GREAT reading and HIGHLY recommended.	2002-08-29
US	47950934	R18GZ130ZFOOSZ	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An absolutely Superb Murder/Mystery	I totally disagree with those who claim this novel to be anti-Japanese and/or racist.  Pay attention to the detail of the story and Crichton's comment's at the end of the book and you will know how he feels.  Rising Sun is nothing more than a vehicle to tell a story from the viewpoint of one particular character.  Would I agree that Rising Sun is Politically INCorrect?  Yes -- a little...but so is Disney's Song of the South, does it mean there was some ulterior racist motive by the author?  I don't believe it for a second.  If you'll remember, Rising Sun came out at a time when wealthy Japanese Industrialists were snatching up sections of Los Angeles and huge portions of Hawaii left and right.  I believe in many ways Crichton pays a HUGE compliment to the Japanese people portraying them as fierce competitors who do not take business decisions lightly.  I myself have worked for a Japanese company in the past, and I can tell you they are incredibly smart people with a work ethic that puts most of the world to shame.<br />With that aside, Rising Sun is so TOTALLY different from Crichton's other novels that I very nearly passed it by.  But I decided to take a gamble and it paid off really well.  In fact, I'd love to see him do another murder/mystery.  He is easily one of the most adaptable authors I have ever read (next to Greg Iles).  The forensic descriptions and technical detail are in fact amazingly detailed (as usual) and on many levels I felt I was right in the middle of the action AS it was happening.  Crichton's attention to each and every nook & cranny of the plotline serves to give us what certainly feels like an insiders view of what a murder investigation is really like.<br />Word of caution: The movie version is truly one of the worst film-adaptations I have EVER seen.  I like Wesley Snipes, but he in NO WAY fits the character he portrays in the novel.  PLUS, if you think that because you may have seen the movie you know the outcome, you DON'T.  Another MAJOR screw-up in the movie is they alter the plot SO much that we have a completely DIFFERENT murderer in the movie than in the book.  It never ceases to amaze me how Hollywood can take a perfectly good novel, and think that in order to make it better, they have the talent to re-write it.  They need to ask themselves this:  WHAT exactly was it that made the book to popular in the first place?  Keep it as close to the novel as possible and you'd be surprised at how successful these stories can be on the big screen (take Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings as one impressive example).<br />All in all this is one of my top 3 favorite Crichton novels, and I am quite anxious for his follow-up to Timeline (c'mon Michael! It's been almost 3 YEARS...!).  For fans of the murder/mystery genre, don't let his past techno-sci/fi novels keep you from this well told tale of suspense.  Not just good, but simply GREAT storytelling.OR screw-up in the movie is they alter the plot SO much that we have a completely DIFFERENT murderer in the movie than in the book.  It never ceases to amaze me how Hollywood can take a perfectly good novel, and think that in order to make it better, they have the talent to re-write it.  They need to ask themselves this:  WHAT exactly was it that made the book to popular in the first place?  Keep it as close to the novel as possible and you'd be surprised at how successful these stories can be on the big screen (take Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings as one impressive example).<br />All in all this is one of my top 3 favorite Crichton novels, and I am quite anxious for his follow-up to Timeline (c'mon Michael! It's been almost 3 YEARS...!).  For fans of the murder/mystery genre, don't let his past techno-sci/fi novels keep you from this well told tale of suspense.  Not just good, but simply GREAT storytelling.	2002-08-07
US	47950934	RBYMSICH4I1YK	0765300648	959103132	Goliath	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Killer plot + thought provoking issues = one GREAT read!	After 'Domain' I was wondering just how Steve Alten was going to surpass himself...but 'Goliath' DOES it, hands down the MOST exciting and thought provoking novel that takes place beneath the seas in print today.  My experience is that once in a great while an author will produce a home run their first time at bat (or at print in this case), and even more rare is the one who can improve on such a grand scale with each successive book they write.  Steve Alten IS that rare breed who has done exactly that.<br />Goliath is much more than your average everyday novel about submarines.  If you enjoyed 'The Hunt For Red October' or the novels of Michael DiMercurio, treat yourself to a story that quite literally detonates in the first few pages with an ENTIRE Aircraft Carrier Battle Group getting sunk -- and it really takes off from there.  What sets a Steve Alten book apart from most of the rest available today is the tremendous amount of research done in order to make everything you read as authentic as possible.  'Goliath' is no exception.  Steve is also the rare author who encourages his readers to help him wherever possible to ensure that everything that hits the presses is accurate, and once again you can see all the work has most definitely paid off here.<br />Introduce Gunnar Wolfe, a good guy who was incredibly wronged by pretty much everyone who he loved, from his fiancee to his country.  Imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit, he is suddenly wanted by that same country to risk his life to save countless billions, and in so doing, clear his own name.  His job?  Search out the Goliath and either bring it back, or destroy it.  The trouble is, Goliath is run by the world's most sophisticated bio-electric computer, Sorceress...and tracking her down will be hard enough, but actually capturing her will practically require an Act of God.<br />The plans for Goliath were stolen by Simon Covah, a bitter man with an agenda that many in the world actually support: the total disarmament of nuclear weapons, and the public executions of the world's most notorious evil leaders.  Simon steals the plans and convinces the Chinese to help him build the monstrous submarine...upon it's completion, he steals the ship and destroys the shipyards and embarks on his plan to make the world safer for ALL of mankind, whether they like it or not.  So, how DO you stop a super stealth sub which is run by Sorceress?  Oh, and by the way, the computer has suddenly evolved in a way that was totally unpredicted: she becomes self-aware...and slowly develops an agenda all her own.<br />Throw in the mix very well thought out situations which caused me to ponder a LOT about how I look at the world as well as can we and should we continue to build up our military?  The interesting thing about all of this is that Steve Alten doesn't get up on any kind of soap box and argue one side more than the other...he doesn't offer a solution to these (and other equally important issues), he simply poses the question and develops characters who are far from perfect, but desperately want to do the right thing based upon the information they have.<br />'Goliath' is without a doubt one of the best books I have read in many years, and personally it is now one of my all-time favorites.  Entertaining on a so many levels as to be far ahead of most of the so-called techno-thrillers availble today.  Do yourself a favor and get to know Steve Alten...start with his 1st novel, 'Meg' and move up the ladder until you get to 'Goliath'.  He is easily one of the most entertaining authors working today, and his latest outing only serves as an exclamation point to prove it.  You can't ask anything more from a book than what Steve serves up hot, fresh and incredibly original.  Highly recommended, and a pure adrenaline rush, 'Goliath' deserves to be a #1 best seller no question about it.isarmament of nuclear weapons, and the public executions of the world's most notorious evil leaders.  Simon steals the plans and convinces the Chinese to help him build the monstrous submarine...upon it's completion, he steals the ship and destroys the shipyards and embarks on his plan to make the world safer for ALL of mankind, whether they like it or not.  So, how DO you stop a super stealth sub which is run by Sorceress?  Oh, and by the way, the computer has suddenly evolved in a way that was totally unpredicted: she becomes self-aware...and slowly develops an agenda all her own.<br />Throw in the mix very well thought out situations which caused me to ponder a LOT about how I look at the world as well as can we and should we continue to build up our military?  The interesting thing about all of this is that Steve Alten doesn't get up on any kind of soap box and argue one side more than the other...he doesn't offer a solution to these (and other equally important issues), he simply poses the question and develops characters who are far from perfect, but desperately want to do the right thing based upon the information they have.<br />'Goliath' is without a doubt one of the best books I have read in many years, and personally it is now one of my all-time favorites.  Entertaining on a so many levels as to be far ahead of most of the so-called techno-thrillers availble today.  Do yourself a favor and get to know Steve Alten...start with his 1st novel, 'Meg' and move up the ladder until you get to 'Goliath'.  He is easily one of the most entertaining authors working today, and his latest outing only serves as an exclamation point to prove it.  You can't ask anything more from a book than what Steve serves up hot, fresh and incredibly original.  Highly recommended, and a pure adrenaline rush, 'Goliath' deserves to be a #1 best seller no question about it.	2002-07-16
US	47950934	R2UPDR17L4RZ81	0399148728	440578728	Fire Ice (The Numa Files)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Kurt Austin's most entertaining adventure -- to date...	It is impossible NOT to notice the overwhelming similarities between the characters of Kurt Austin & Joe Zavala and Dirk Pitt & Al Giordino.  As I read the first installment ('Serpent') I couldn't help but think if you substituted the name Dirk with Kurt, and Al for Joe, well, you pretty much had your basic Dirk Pitt adventure.  I must admit that it bugged me -- at FIRST.  Instead of collecting classic cars, Kurt had classic firearms...and other than that, the differences were slim & none.  Al and Joe are virtual clones, too.  Both are strong, both love the ladies, and both can sleep at the drop of a hat in almost any possible situation.  Did I enjoy running around with Kurt & Joe as much as I did with Dirk & Al?  Well I must admit that for the most part, the answer was YES.  'Serpent' was a slam-bang introduction into the life of our newest NUMA hero.  While 'Blue Gold' wasn't as all-out entertaining, I have to say that 'Fire Ice' has been Cussler's best bet since 'Atlantis Found' (for ME anyway).<br />This adventure reads like something out of the Cold War ala Robert Ludlum, with an adventure twist that only Cussler could serve up.  Russia is on the verge of collapse (actually I can't remember when they weren't...) and a wealthy Russian bad guy who claims royal ancestry with the tsars is poised to make the biggest coup since the Bolsheviks de-throned the original royal family back in the early part of the previous century.  There seems to be only one thing standing in his way:  The United States.  He knows that a takeover of this magnitude can't possibly be ignored by the world's foremost superpower.  So he arranges a few surprises in the form of the title of the book, 'Fire Ice'.  Unstable pockets of explosive gas trapped in bedrock all over the globe under the seas and oceans.  Just a simple trigger of this amazingly powerful stuff can cause waves of incredible force to slam into the coast of America -- giving our Russian bad guy just the sort of diversion he needs to keep<br />his plans of taking over his country in motion.<br />Along the way we meet Kurt's Russian rival (from the Cold War) who turns out to be a great friend in the fight against the self proclaimed New Tsar of Russia.  The pace is frenetic (as you have come to expect from ANY Cussler novel) and while nothing seems to come as a complete surprise, I lapped up this adventure eager to find out how it all tied together in the end.  Either Cussler has a great deal of input in the storytelling of these Kurt Austin stories, or Paul Kemprecos has mastered the art of imitating Cussler's style.  Without question I felt that 'Fire Ice' is an above-average adventure tale, and better than several<br />Dirk Pitt stories.  Again, this is just MY opinion.  I have never been disappointed with Clive's novels, and he seems to be keenly aware that in order to continue his fan base, he must write adventures based upon his tried-and-true formula which he has perfected over the years.  A formula which WORKS, I might add.  Simply put, I loved this story and very much look forward to many stories to come in the world of Kurt Austin as well as Dirk Pitt.  Cussler truly IS a gifted storyteller, and I believe 'Ice Fire' helps to prove it.needs to keep<BR>his plans of taking over his country in motion.<br />Along the way we meet Kurt's Russian rival (from the Cold War) who turns out to be a great friend in the fight against the self proclaimed New Tsar of Russia.  The pace is frenetic (as you have come to expect from ANY Cussler novel) and while nothing seems to come as a complete surprise, I lapped up this adventure eager to find out how it all tied together in the end.  Either Cussler has a great deal of input in the storytelling of these Kurt Austin stories, or Paul Kemprecos has mastered the art of imitating Cussler's style.  Without question I felt that 'Fire Ice' is an above-average adventure tale, and better than several<BR>Dirk Pitt stories.  Again, this is just MY opinion.  I have never been disappointed with Clive's novels, and he seems to be keenly aware that in order to continue his fan base, he must write adventures based upon his tried-and-true formula which he has perfected over the years.  A formula which WORKS, I might add.  Simply put, I loved this story and very much look forward to many stories to come in the world of Kurt Austin as well as Dirk Pitt.  Cussler truly IS a gifted storyteller, and I believe 'Ice Fire' helps to prove it.	2002-06-26
US	47950934	R1I9RGI0IGG1F5	0812551478	855284075	Blood of the Fold (Sword of Truth, Book 3)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	On 2nd thought, I really liked this entry in this series...	By the time I got around to reading this series, the first two books were already in paperback, but I made sure to grab a copy of 'Blood of the Fold' in hardback because I quite frankly just couldn't wait.  Is it as good as 'Wizard's First Rule' & 'Stone Of Tears'?  Not quite.  In fact, upon finishing it the first time I felt terribly let down.  In fact I was downright disappointed.  I went on to become incredibly energized with how much I enjoyed 'Temple of the Winds' but still I felt as though Terry had failed me with book 3.<br />While waiting for 'Soul of the Fire' (my least favorite SoT book) I went back and re-read 'Blood of the Fold' and realized something amazing:  I had underrated this book by a MILE.  I was expecting more of the exact same from the first two books, and when Goodkind went in off in a different direction (than I had anticipated) I was upset, but as I went over this book the 2nd time, I found it to be much more entertaining than my initial first reading.  In fact I enjoyed it quite a bit.  One of my personal Pet Peeves are readers who feel that because a book doesn't go the way THEY want, the author has wasted their time and the readers money.  I admit, I have fallen into this trap myself on occasion, but I have changed my ways (for the most part).  I am now a firm believer that each author has the right to take THEIR story in any direction they choose, as Terry Goodkind has been known to do (see 'Soul of the Fire' & 'The Pillars of Creation') but I submit that 'Blood of the Fold' stays true to the events which began in book 1 and continued in book 2.  I enjoyed in particular the introduction of the Sliph and Gratch.  I think that Goodkind has a good grasp of how to move a story along, even while giving you a re-cap of events that have gone on before without making you feel as though he is treating you like your memory is broken.  If you notice in most novels with sequels you are expected (by the publisher) to give some kind of catch-up of what has gone before in hopes that if someone mistakenly picks up this book without having read the first two, they won't feel hopelessly lost.<br />Goodkind is simply put a gifted storyteller who has created a world rich in detail, history and incredible violence.  Richard is one of my favorite protagonists in all of modern fiction not because he is perfect, but because more than anything, he just plain wants to do what is right, and not necessarily what is expected of him (which he does in pretty much each book).  I DO however believe that this series is beset with the formula fantasy which has ruined many other series out there...Goodkind has set up the stage with the usual:  SOMETHING directly threatens Richard & Kahlan's attempt to either be together and/or the world's security as we know it, and somehow they become separated, and in their efforts to get back together they save the day (or the world).  Sure, this has become predictable, but I am enjoying it anyway mostly due to Goodkind's sheer storytelling ability.  He moves the plot around enough that even though I have a good idea of what may happen next, I am not entirely certain that it will.  Along the way he has also given me some genuine surprises along the way (just note the BIG surprise with Richard's Prophetic friend in 'Faith of the Fallen').  All things considered, after my 2nd go-round with 'Blood of the Fold' I have decided that this really IS a great addition to the SoT series and a stand-alone novel worthy of all the praise it has received.at has gone before in hopes that if someone mistakenly picks up this book without having read the first two, they won't feel hopelessly lost.  <br />Goodkind is simply put a gifted storyteller who has created a world rich in detail, history and incredible violence.  Richard is one of my favorite protagonists in all of modern fiction not because he is perfect, but because more than anything, he just plain wants to do what is right, and not necessarily what is expected of him (which he does in pretty much each book).  I DO however believe that this series is beset with the formula fantasy which has ruined many other series out there...Goodkind has set up the stage with the usual:  SOMETHING directly threatens Richard & Kahlan's attempt to either be together and/or the world's security as we know it, and somehow they become separated, and in their efforts to get back together they save the day (or the world).  Sure, this has become predictable, but I am enjoying it anyway mostly due to Goodkind's sheer storytelling ability.  He moves the plot around enough that even though I have a good idea of what may happen next, I am not entirely certain that it will.  Along the way he has also given me some genuine surprises along the way (just note the BIG surprise with Richard's Prophetic friend in 'Faith of the Fallen').  All things considered, after my 2nd go-round with 'Blood of the Fold' I have decided that this really IS a great addition to the SoT series and a stand-alone novel worthy of all the praise it has received.	2002-06-12
US	47950934	RB7VVW6SXT4Z1	0743406435	312415273	The Eugenics Wars, Vol. 2 (Star Trek: the Original Series - the Eugenics Wars)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	As good -- or BETTER than Volume 1...exceptionally fun.	I was really blown away by The Eugenics Wars volume 1...big time. I just wasn't expecting a Trek novel to be SO different, so creative, so GOOD.  This was an exceptional example of creative juices on overload.  Kirk and Spock take a backseat to a few characters from the past, that normally wouldn't command even a 2nd glance -- but Greg Cox's fertile imagination has brought new life to the Trek Universe in ways that brought many smiles to my face as I read through book's 1 &amp; 2.<br />Volume 2 picks up shortly after vol 1 left off, plus a few years.<br />Gary Seven failed to stop the Chrysalis Project from creating a few genetically engineered children before he was able to derail the Project from progressing further...but some damage had already been done.  Gary &amp; Roberta scattered the children all over the globe in hopes of keeping them from some supreme scheme to take over the world.  Gary even attempts a valiant effort to recruit Khan to assist him and Roberta in helping us wayward earthlings from killing ourselves prematurely.  A noble idea, but with Khan's impossibly overblown ego, a gesture which was destined to fail...miserably.<br />Before we know it, Khan has himself an island near the equator and has regrouped the children of Chrysalis and has devised a plan to force the world under his iron rule, which he is convinced is the best way to save mankind.  What I found most interesting aside from the clever way Mr. Cox managed to take existing history and mix it up with Trek Lore, was how he managed to give Khan's character depth.  We have to remember that he isn't responsible for his own existence, we can thank the Chrysalis Project for that.  I never would have thought that his character could be as deep as he was written in these two novels.  We all know that eventually Khan and his minions end up aboard the SS Botany Bay, which The Enterprise will encounter a few hundred years in the future, and again in Star Trek II, The Wrath Of Khan (still one of the best movies).  This book fills in the gaps of his life on earth and how the Eugenics Wars started, how they end, and how events we have come to know about have a connection to Star Trek that at times evokes outright laughter, not because they are silly, but mostly because of how clever they have been woven into the plot.<br />Greg Cox has written an amazingly creative story that shows his obvious love of the series.  Aside from Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens' who write on a level that just about nobody can reach, Cox has gone in another direction which has made this series fresh in a way I never would have thought possible.  You have many choices in the world of Trek, and some would say most are not worth the price of a paperback, but The Rise And Fall of Khan Noonien Singh Volume's 1 &amp; 2 are most definitely worth the price, even in hardback.  Pick this one up and savor the incredible journey that Mr. Cox has pieced together for us.  It is a journey well worth taking, and worth taking more than once.the best movies).  This book fills in the gaps of his life on earth and how the Eugenics Wars started, how they end, and how events we have come to know about have a connection to Star Trek that at times evokes outright laughter, not because they are silly, but mostly because of how clever they have been woven into the plot.<br />Greg Cox has written an amazingly creative story that shows his obvious love of the series.  Aside from Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens' who write on a level that just about nobody can reach, Cox has gone in another direction which has made this series fresh in a way I never would have thought possible.  You have many choices in the world of Trek, and some would say most are not worth the price of a paperback, but The Rise And Fall of Khan Noonien Singh Volume's 1 &amp; 2 are most definitely worth the price, even in hardback.  Pick this one up and savor the incredible journey that Mr. Cox has pieced together for us.  It is a journey well worth taking, and worth taking more than once.	2002-05-23
US	47950934	R31CGPB1FAI3V0	0743406427	926743636	The Star Trek: The Original Series: The Eugenics Wars #1: The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An AMAZING tale about the origins of Khan Noonien Singh	This story was such a surprise on so many different levels, I hardly know where to begin to review it...let me start by saying if you are looking for the typical Trek novel, you will most defintely NOT find it here.  This transcends what I have come to expect from even an above-average Trek story, and has me looking forward to Volume 2 very much.<br />The story starts off much like a Trek novel featuring Kirk & Crew off to solve another problem...The planet Sycorax is petitioning to join the Federation.  Normally this is a good thing, but this particular society has toyed with genetic manipulation for almost 2 centuries...something strictly forbidden under Federation Law, a law based upon sad experience from the horrible Eugenics Wars during the latter part of the 20th century.  While genetic research has definite merit, the obvious possible abuse of this power is too much of a threat to allow such technology to proceed.  In order for Kirk to make the best decision possible, he goes in search of Earth's own history of genetic abuse, and how it produced the monster known as Khan, someone Kirk unfortunately knows all too well.<br />The story suddenly travels backwards in time, and this is where the REAL treat of this story begins.  The character of Gary Seven, introduced in the episode, 'Assignment Earth' along with his sidekick, Roberta Lincoln and the alien cat, Isis are the central point of this story, and NOT Kirk and Company.  The year is 1974 and Gary, himself a genetically enhanced Human placed on earth to help stop the premature demise of our flawed human species uncovers a possible plot to use genetic research to create a super-race of humans.  Before too long, he and Roberta are knee-deep in the middle of the Chrysalis Project, using the brightest minds on the planet to manipulate DNA in such a way to manufacture better, quicker, stronger and smarter humans.  But they show up a bit too late to stop this genetic manipulation from starting.  They quickly discover that the Chrysalis Project has created several hundred examples of Super Humans, chief among them is young Noon, who we all know grows up to become one of the chief pains in Kirks backside.<br />There is a LOT more to this story than just the origins of Khan, and the further exploits of Gary Seven, MUCH more.  Greg Cox has managed to incorporate Trek lore in the obvious as well as not-so-obvious places...riddled throughout the novel are hints of future characters we will all come to know well, as well as other fictional people from TV in the 70's & 80's...I'd love to spill the beans, but it would spoil the fun of discovering them for yourself.  Some have compared this story to a complex episode of the X-Files, and I would have to agree.  Using every kind of conspiracy theory advanced in the past century from the alien crash landing at Roswell to Immortals and even pop culture from the past 3 decades, this novel is one to be savored slowly and enjoyed for the creative force it truly is.  Worth reading more than once?  I would say YES.  I am currently working on volume 2, and if the reviews of that story are any indication, lightning has struck twice and I have much to look forward TO.<br />If you are looking for the typical novel that features well-known and established Trek characters as the focal-point of this story, you are going to be sadly disappointed.  Kirk, Spock & McCoy are in less than 30 pages of this book, but the rest is a fantastic trip down memory lane which includes several laugh-out-loud moments and plenty of spots that made me go, 'Oh, now THAT'S a creative way to explain this...'.  While I won't guarantee that everyone will love this story, I CAN say that I enjoyed it VERY much.  I would put it in the league of the Top 5 best Trek novels I have ever read.  Like I said, good enough to read twice...but not until after I wrap up the 2nd book.  Kudos to Mr. Cox for a great story well told.  I look forward to more Trek stories from you in the future.re.	2002-05-01
US	47950934	R1GVJS0AWDDA4S	0553252704	634457066	The Parsifal Mosaic: A Novel	Books	5	47	50	N	N	This PROVES why Ludlum had NO equal in the 70's & 80's...	I was introduced to Ludlum in the late 70's by my brother who claimed that if I thought Clive Cussler was a good author, I needed to check out somebody who could really plot a story well.<br />I started off with The Bourne Identity, which I still rank as one of the most original stories I have ever read.  I waited quite some time before attempting 'Parisfal', and by the time I finally got around to doing so, it didn't take long to realize that I had cheated myself out of quite an adventure.<br />I was going through my library here not long ago fixing up my book shelves when I ran across my old copy, and decided it was time to crack it open yet again.  I was amazed at how well it has held up over the years, and just how REALLY GOOD it really is.  I won't attempt to go into the details of the plot, because quite frankly, Ludlum puts just too many twists and turns into his average novel that just to attempt to summarize 'Parsifal' in such a short amount of room would be incredibly disrespectful to the memory of Robert Ludlum (in my opinion).  No, instead I would rather go into what makes his novels so darned fun...<br />Ludlum will never be confused with what some consider 'True Literature' but what he lacks in major character development, he more than makes up for with the sheer speed of his plots and how his stories seem to be several plots all going at once on a runaway train with no brakes...yet he manages to keep control at all of the crucial moments and never gives you more peeks into what is really happening than you absolutely MUST have, and yet you still have a grasp of what is going on, without knowing what is going to happen next.  Is someone going to die in his books?<br />Yes...PLENTY of bodies stack up over the course of the typical Ludlum novel, but that really isn't what drives the story...it's the amazing creativity in which the story unfolds and the complexity in which the circumstances seem to rope you in to the point where if you don't continue to keep reading, you just may find yourself lost because of just how sophisticated he writes his thrillers.  Many have called Ludlum the Master of the Superthriller, and I echo that in a HUGE way.  In my opinion, 'The Parsifal Mosaic' is easily one of his top 2 books, which is high praise indeed when you consider his earlier & later works.<br />Simply put, if you have toyed with the idea of reading a Robert Ludlum novel and you have yet to check out 'Parsifal' than you are in for one incredible treat.  Pick it up and get lost in one of the greatest imaginations in adventure thriller fiction of the past 40+ YEARS.  Simply put, this is an absolutely amazing novel that is more fun than I can put into words...and I have to say, it is JUST as fun the 2nd time around, too.  HIGHLY recommended.reading, you just may find yourself lost because of just how sophisticated he writes his thrillers.  Many have called Ludlum the Master of the Superthriller, and I echo that in a HUGE way.  In my opinion, 'The Parsifal Mosaic' is easily one of his top 2 books, which is high praise indeed when you consider his earlier & later works.<BR>Simply put, if you have toyed with the idea of reading a Robert Ludlum novel and you have yet to check out 'Parsifal' than you are in for one incredible treat.  Pick it up and get lost in one of the greatest imaginations in adventure thriller fiction of the past 40+ YEARS.  Simply put, this is an absolutely amazing novel that is more fun than I can put into words...and I have to say, it is JUST as fun the 2nd time around, too.  HIGHLY recommended.	2002-04-22
US	47950934	R37AHKIEUSUW1U	0060002484	534292075	Amazonia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another fine adventure to the oft-visited Amazon forest...	It seems to me that the jungles of the Amazon rainforest are being frequented a lot as of late...just in the past couple of years I have read quite a few adventures which take place in South America and deal with either a primitive lost tribe, or the wonders of the ancient civilizations and how they constructed pyramids the equal to those in the Giza Plateau in Egypt...namely 'Link', 'Domain', 'Excavation' (also by James Rollins) 'Temple' and now 'Amazonia' (just to name a few).  Now I don't mean to infer that treading upon this road is getting old in any way, on the contrary, I have enjoyed ALL of the above mentioned novels, all unique in their own ways and all quite fun to read.<br />'Amazonia' begins with a man emerging from the jungle only to collapse and die at the foot of a missionary trying in vain to save his life.  We soon discover this man to be Gerald Clark, a man who had disappeared in a jungle trek 4 YEARS before with no trace.  The most significant thing about Gerald was that he started that adventure with only one arm...lost to a snipers bullet some time before...but as he returns from who knows where he has BOTH arms intact.  What in the WORLD could this possibly mean?  Scientists for decades have been suggesting that buried somewhere in the rainforest of the Amazon lies cures to everything from cancer to the cold...but the regeneration of lost limbs?  Well NOBODY had considered that even a remote possibility.  In short order an expidition is arranged to pick up where the ill-fated previous group was last known to have reported in with the hope of being able to figure out this puzzle and maybe figure out what happened to the first group.<br />This is where the tire hits the pavement in this particular novel.  Rumors of an Amazon tribe with virtual supernatural powers comes to the surface, and before long, the expidition is attacked by piranhas...or ARE they?  Carnivorous locusts which appear to show up ONLY where this mysterious tribe leaves their mark of death...prehistoric sized Crocodiles...Unnaturally large Jaguars (which seemed almost too similar to Matthew Reilly's 'Temple' if you ask me) and the distinct feeling of being watched is just a small part of what happens to the 2nd group.<br />While this group is having difficulties on their trek in the jungles, the body of Gerald Clark has unwittingly unleashed a plague of biblical proportions back in the States...with a 100% mortality rate among the elderly and the young, this threat begins to consume America and the Center for Disease Control doesn't seem to have a clue as to how to cure it, let alone contain it.<br />James Rollins handles all the loose ends just fine, although I felt that the plague portion of the story was reduced a little too much for my tastes, which is odd since normally novels tend to be too long if anything and hardly EVER not long enough.  The lost tribe and their strange ways...the mysterious tree which can restore a lost limb...the plague that threatens to kill millions...and whatever happened to that original expidition?  All these questions and more are answered quite well, and all without sounding corny--which is a remarkable feat when you stop to consider the story after you've finished it.  All in all, 'Amazonia' was a fun, thrilling adventure well told.  I DO believe that it wasn't nearly as fast paced as Rollins' first 3 books, and I think I may be in the minority with that opinion, but I also feel this is a much more mature story than his previous novels and overall a more satisfying story.  Rollins is most definitely an author to watch.  If you have read any of the books I mentioned above with similar themes, you may want to give 'Amazonia' a try, it certainly made me feel as though my money was well spent.of death...prehistoric sized Crocodiles...Unnaturally large Jaguars (which seemed almost too similar to Matthew Reilly's 'Temple' if you ask me) and the distinct feeling of being watched is just a small part of what happens to the 2nd group.<br />While this group is having difficulties on their trek in the jungles, the body of Gerald Clark has unwittingly unleashed a plague of biblical proportions back in the States...with a 100% mortality rate among the elderly and the young, this threat begins to consume America and the Center for Disease Control doesn't seem to have a clue as to how to cure it, let alone contain it.  <br />James Rollins handles all the loose ends just fine, although I felt that the plague portion of the story was reduced a little too much for my tastes, which is odd since normally novels tend to be too long if anything and hardly EVER not long enough.  The lost tribe and their strange ways...the mysterious tree which can restore a lost limb...the plague that threatens to kill millions...and whatever happened to that original expidition?  All these questions and more are answered quite well, and all without sounding corny--which is a remarkable feat when you stop to consider the story after you've finished it.  All in all, 'Amazonia' was a fun, thrilling adventure well told.  I DO believe that it wasn't nearly as fast paced as Rollins' first 3 books, and I think I may be in the minority with that opinion, but I also feel this is a much more mature story than his previous novels and overall a more satisfying story.  Rollins is most definitely an author to watch.  If you have read any of the books I mentioned above with similar themes, you may want to give 'Amazonia' a try, it certainly made me feel as though my money was well spent.	2002-04-16
US	47950934	R1XOPYPU1MJBP3	0446610038	30029813	1st to Die: A Novel (Women's Murder Club, No 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	After the disappointing Violets Are Blue, 1st To Die shines!	If there is one thing that is virtually a given in the literary world of authoring books its this: Some are better than others...sooner or later, no matter HOW long you've written, you are eventually going to produce one that by lack of a better term, just stinks. I have long been an Alex Cross fan ever since I picked up 'Kiss The Girls' some 6 years ago, and I've grabbed each and every one of his novels since...some better than others, but after 'Violets Are Blue' I began to wonder if Patterson had hit a terminal slump in his writing.  This was my thinking when I cautiously picked up a copy of '1st To Die'. <br />I am happy to say that Patterson writes we renewed vigor with this first installment of the Womans Murder Club.  Already you can pick up the next novel, '2nd Chance' and you can bet I am certain to grab that one quick.  Patterson certainly doesn't choose the easiest people to write about...first he picks a middle aged black man to lead his Alex Cross novels, and he pulls this off with ease making him an extremely well-written and likeable character.  Now he picks a group of woman.  I gotta hand it to Patterson for even making the attempt to write from not just one woman's perspective, but multiple characters.<br />Aside from all that the story is vintage Patterson at his best.<BR>A great plot dotted with short chapters (Patterson's M.O.), an evil character who is truly EVIL, and clues opening up which allows each of the female characters to use their particular skills to help solve crimes that are disrupting an entire city.<BR>Tension mounts in such a successive manner that before you know it you are doing one of those, 'I'll stop after the NEXT chapter' routines because you are SO caught up in the plot.  I just LOVE short chapters, especially when I'm busy but still want to get in a few minutes of reading on an otherwise busy day.  If you were getting a little burned out on his writing style, and especially if you were considering dropping him after his last attempt (Violets Are Blue), give '1st To Do' a chance, and you will be amazed how you will fall in love with his books all over again.  Kudos to a great story well told.  I very much look forward to '2nd Chance' which I plan on buying later this afternoon.	2002-04-12
US	47950934	RRGDF8LBW3XMR	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Alex Cross MAY be looking to retire soon...	I have been a voracious fan of James Patterson ever since I read the back of a copy of 'Kiss The Girls' while waiting in line at the grocery store, and took a gamble and bought it out of sheer boredom.  I have been thoroughly entertained (for the most part) with the exploits of Dectective Alex Cross over the past 6 years, my favorites being 'Kiss The Girls' & 'Jack & Jill'.  I must admit that the Mastermind in 'Roses Are Red' was a great adversary for Alex, especially his partially hidden agenda and identity, which was totally revealed at the end of the book -- meaning, if you have already read that particular novel, you already KNOW virtually HALF of 'Violets Are Blue'.  Sure, you may not know ALL of the events, but guessing the WHO will certainly NOT be a challenge whatsoever.  This alone virtually ruined a good chunk of an otherwise ambitious novel.<br />The other half is the bizarre and morbid underground world of Vampires in this country.  Yes, you read that right: VAMPIRES.  Not in the 'undead' sense with Bela Lugosi turning into a bat and flying off after his latest assault, but an honest-to-goodness REAL (and growing) world of people who drink blood and actually create fangs for themselves to complete the transformation into this dark persona.  Weird?  ABSOLUTELY.  Is it real?  Unfortunately, yes.  Patterson takes this complex society of people and fabricates a story that certainly doesn't seem nearly as outrageous as you might think -- at first.  Again, no secret as to the WHO is pulling off murder after grisly murder by draining the victims of their blood and leave them hanging, literally.  The murders seem to be localized in California, but shortly after Alex becomes involved, they begin to spread to other parts, and suddenly a theory hits Alex as he conducts his investigation with the help of a beautiful California law enforcement official:  could these murders have been caused not just by the same people, but by different GROUPS of these so-called Vampires who inhabit virtually ALL parts of the country...??  It's a VERY disturbing thought, one that Alex delves into entirely.  Chapter-per-chapter, 'Violets Are Blue' has the largest body-count of ANY previous Alex Cross novel, and as we all know, Patterson piles on the chapters (usually a hundred or more per novel).  Normally this wouldn't bother me, but add in the fact that I already know the identity of the Mastermind revealed at the very end of 'Rose Are Red', therefore the annoying phone calls that Alex keeps getting throughout his Vampire investigation are pretty much just that: ANNOYING.  ALL of the mystery is GONE.  All I wondered was when the next call would come, and how would the Mastermind attempt to bother Cross this time.  I found this particular outing for Patterson my least favorite novel of his in the Alex Cross series thus far, and a big change from 'Roses Are Red' which although not the best in the series, I did however manage to finish in one single day (which I haven't done in YEARS).  I can't say that I won't ever pick up another future Alex Cross novel, but this one just left me flat and ultimately unfulfilled.res who inhabit virtually ALL parts of the country...??  It's a VERY disturbing thought, one that Alex delves into entirely.  Chapter-per-chapter, 'Violets Are Blue' has the largest body-count of ANY previous Alex Cross novel, and as we all know, Patterson piles on the chapters (usually a hundred or more per novel).  Normally this wouldn't bother me, but add in the fact that I already know the identity of the Mastermind revealed at the very end of 'Rose Are Red', therefore the annoying phone calls that Alex keeps getting throughout his Vampire investigation are pretty much just that: ANNOYING.  ALL of the mystery is GONE.  All I wondered was when the next call would come, and how would the Mastermind attempt to bother Cross this time.  I found this particular outing for Patterson my least favorite novel of his in the Alex Cross series thus far, and a big change from 'Roses Are Red' which although not the best in the series, I did however manage to finish in one single day (which I haven't done in YEARS).  I can't say that I won't ever pick up another future Alex Cross novel, but this one just left me flat and ultimately unfulfilled.	2002-04-11
US	47950934	R25BGSEMDS6VWZ	0394576101	965141206	The Ludlum Triad: The Holcroft Covenant, The Matarese Circle and The Bourne Identity	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Cream of Ludlum's Crop	Ludlum has been hailed as the virtual originator of the Superthriller, and with these three books, it is difficult to aruge that fact.  I'll review these books individually:<br />#1 The Holcroft Covenant takes the 'Nazi Conspiracy' to the next level.  Although dated (just a bit) this novel sweeps you up after a slow beginning, but when the wheels finally hits the pavement, make sure to be belted in, 'cuz this is a fantastic ride.  In the closing days of WWII the Nazi's forge a desperate plan which plants the seed of the rise of the Fourth Reich sometime in the 70's, and will be put into motion unwittingly, by a pawn who despises everything the Nazi's ever stood for.  Scary and well worth the effort, 'the Holcroft Covenant' is one of Ludlum's best.<br />#2 The Materese Circle was my 1st Ludlum novel way back in the early 80's, and is still one of my all-time favorite novels.  During the Cold War nobody -- NOBODY could write a more compelling spy story, and this one easily ranks (for me) as Ludlums all-time best spy story.  But it is much more than just spy vs spy...in this novel, Ludlum pits rival spy vs. rival spy working together to take on an ancient Mob which is alive and well and ready to launch the unthinkable.  Do NOT think that the sequel (the Materese Countdown) even comes CLOSE to this masterpice, 'cuz it just plain falls flat by comparison.<br />#3 The Bourne Identity has to be one of the most clever plot-driven stories that ANYONE has come up with in the past century.<br />An unknown man is fished out of the Mediterranean Sea riddled with bullets, barely alive.  Nursed back to health by an alcoholic doctor, who notices that this mysterious man has had plastic surgery to alter his looks, has a small micro-film hidden under his skin and has also noted that he has NO IDEA who he is.  Using the micro-film to guide him, he ends up in Switzerland where he is recognized by an angry man waving a gun in absolute fright claiming that he had been killed...and our poor protagonist begins the flight of his life fleeing from assassins who want him dead, but still suffering from amnesia, he can't understand the WHY...nor does he accept all the evidence that points to him as an international professional hired killer.  Top notch entertainment and believe it or not, Ludlum's 2nd Bourne novel was just as good (if not a little better).<br />All in all these are three exceptional examples of Robert Ludlum at his absolute best...and for anyone who knows this author, you KNOW that Ludlum at his best puts all the rest to shame.  While it is true that since the end of the Cold War Ludlum's novels have been, shall we say, less than up to his usual excellence, but his final two novels have been MUCH better (The Prometheus Deception & The Sigma Protocol).  We who admire and love Ludlum so much realize that when he passed away, so did one of the finest authors of the 20th Century.  He WILL be missed, especially when I pick up another spy novel and invariably compare it to the Master, who will no doubt surpass everything yet to come.or protagonist begins the flight of his life fleeing from assassins who want him dead, but still suffering from amnesia, he can't understand the WHY...nor does he accept all the evidence that points to him as an international professional hired killer.  Top notch entertainment and believe it or not, Ludlum's 2nd Bourne novel was just as good (if not a little better).  <br />All in all these are three exceptional examples of Robert Ludlum at his absolute best...and for anyone who knows this author, you KNOW that Ludlum at his best puts all the rest to shame.  While it is true that since the end of the Cold War Ludlum's novels have been, shall we say, less than up to his usual excellence, but his final two novels have been MUCH better (The Prometheus Deception & The Sigma Protocol).  We who admire and love Ludlum so much realize that when he passed away, so did one of the finest authors of the 20th Century.  He WILL be missed, especially when I pick up another spy novel and invariably compare it to the Master, who will no doubt surpass everything yet to come.	2002-04-08
US	47950934	R231WDT757779Z	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A GREAT beginning to one of the BEST Fantasy series ever...	I had toyed with the idea of picking up 'Wizard's First Rule' on several occasions, but for some reason or another, I kept going with something else.  Maybe it was because most of the fantasy available today was (by my own standards) drivel...I was also afraid of wasting another 7-bucks on something that I would eventually give up on after a hundred pages or so.  But I finally DID IT -- and after I started it, I suddenly realized how much I had cheated myself during all that time.  Rarely will a first-time author have what it takes capture my imagination, AND deliver such a satisfying tale as well, but Terry Goodkind pulled it off.<br />Richard Cypher, mild-mannered wood guide from a small town is suddenly and violently pushed into a battle between good & evil, one that he never even knew existed.  All at once Richard discovers a few strange, not to mention difficult-to-accept facts: his friend Zedd isn't what he seems and neither is Richard.  This is FAR from the typical Good Vs. Evil fantasy fare available today.  Traveling between the Boundaries and meeting dragons, ultimate betrayal and a particularly difficult woman who is bent on torturing Richard to the brink of death -- over and over again...only to be faced with Darken Rahl, who is more ruthless than anyone Richard has ever known, and yet he is much closer to him than he thought possible.  The scope and vision that Goodkind has created with this 1st volume in the Sword of Truth series is still my favorite, and to this day ranks as my all-time favorite fantasy novel in print (outside of the impossible to beat Lord of the Rings).<br />Just who IS Kahlan anyway?  Is she who she says she is, or is she something more?  Can Richard cross the seemingly impossible chasm that ultimately forces all Confessors to live a life without a TRUE & loving mate?  How does Zedd fit into all of this?  And let's not forget the Sword of Truth given to Richard by Zedd...what can it do?  What DOES it do to Richard?  I must admit, I absolutely LOVED this book.  I have read it several times, which I rarely (if ever) do, and I give it my HIGHEST recommendation to all Fantasy lovers.  A quick word of warning to those who have yet to start this series:  BEWARE...it gets under your skin.  So far (for me anyway) a couple of the books have failed to even come close to some of the other books that follow 'Wizard's First Rule', but do not let that stop you from<br />starting this amazingly entertaining series (do NOT expect too much from 'Soul of the Fire' or 'The Pillar's of Creation'--otherwise this series is incredibly impressive).  Terry Goodkind is simply one of the greatest Fantasy storytellers in print today, and I would even go so far as to say of ALL TIME...but that of course is just my opinion.  Give the 'Sword of Truth' a shot and you'll soon see what I mean.absolutely LOVED this book.  I have read it several times, which I rarely (if ever) do, and I give it my HIGHEST recommendation to all Fantasy lovers.  A quick word of warning to those who have yet to start this series:  BEWARE...it gets under your skin.  So far (for me anyway) a couple of the books have failed to even come close to some of the other books that follow 'Wizard's First Rule', but do not let that stop you from<BR>starting this amazingly entertaining series (do NOT expect too much from 'Soul of the Fire' or 'The Pillar's of Creation'--otherwise this series is incredibly impressive).  Terry Goodkind is simply one of the greatest Fantasy storytellers in print today, and I would even go so far as to say of ALL TIME...but that of course is just my opinion.  Give the 'Sword of Truth' a shot and you'll soon see what I mean.	2002-04-02
US	47950934	R3PD7TQHK1XAD0	0812548094	939049888	Stone of Tears	Books	5	2	5	N	N	An absolutely FANTASTIC sequel to Wizard's First Rule	I was wondering if Goodkind could pull off in a 2nd novel what he had started with his terrific 1st effort in 'Wizard's First Rule' but I must admit, he did a mighty fine job with 'Stone of Tears'.  Personally, I felt it was about 95% as good as book #1, but that is still high praise indeed since WFR is easily one of my all-time favorite Fantasy novels.<br />'Stone' picks up immediately where WFR left off...Richard has defeated the horrific Darken Rahl -- who turns out to be none other than Richard's own Father -- and has found a way around<br />the magic of the Mother Confessor, Kahlan...all is well in the Land...right?  Not for a second.  Within moments of the opening page something has escaped from the Underworld, which is supposedly impossible -- but nevertheless, it happens, almost killing Zedd.  Uh oh.  Meanwhile Richard &amp; Kahlan are reunited with the Mud People preparing for their wedding when three unwelcome women show up and spoil the party.  They claim to be Sisters of the Light, come to save Richard from himself and to teach him how to govern his Gift.  At first I thought this seemed rather hokey, but Goodkind manages to make it absolutely riviting.  Without spoiling the plot too much, Richard reluctantly agrees to travel to the Old World in order to learn more of this Gift he was born with, all the while acting as if he is a prisoner.  It is a long trek to the Palace of the Prophets in the Old World, and we get to know a lot more about Richard and Verna, the last of the three Sisters of the Light that came to find Richard.  Goodkind gives us the impression that this is indeed a very long journey, but he also fills the quest with adventure and danger every step of the way.<br />After arriving at the Palace of the Prophets, Richard is stunned to realize that it is expected to take many YEARS in order to learn all that the Sisters of the Light expect to teach him, maybe even HUNDREDS of years.  A spell has been cast over the Palace which slows time for those within, allowing them the time to study and learn all that it will take in order to become a Wizard.  This of course is unacceptable to Richard, who views life without Kahlan to be no life at all.  In addition to all this Kahlan is experiencing an adventure of her own.  In the Palace is also the place where we first learn of Emperor Jagang and his ability to invade the dreams of his servants turning even a few of the Sisters of the Light into Sisters of the Dark (not unlike the Dark Side of the Force).  There are those within the palace who desperately wish for Richard to fail, at the same time there are a few who are slowly discovering that Richard just might be someone of incredible importance to the history of the world.  Goodkind has crafted what I consider one of the best<br />Fantasy tales ever told with his first two books, and although<br />book #3 is slightly less entertaining, the series overall is MUCH stronger than most available today, and better than most available at ANY time.  In short, 'Stone of Tears' is a tremendous addition to an already Fantastic Fantasy series.  Buy it.  Read it.  Enjoy it.  Repeat.those within, allowing them the time to study and learn all that it will take in order to become a Wizard.  This of course is unacceptable to Richard, who views life without Kahlan to be no life at all.  In addition to all this Kahlan is experiencing an adventure of her own.  In the Palace is also the place where we first learn of Emperor Jagang and his ability to invade the dreams of his servants turning even a few of the Sisters of the Light into Sisters of the Dark (not unlike the Dark Side of the Force).  There are those within the palace who desperately wish for Richard to fail, at the same time there are a few who are slowly discovering that Richard just might be someone of incredible importance to the history of the world.  Goodkind has crafted what I consider one of the best<BR>Fantasy tales ever told with his first two books, and although<BR>book #3 is slightly less entertaining, the series overall is MUCH stronger than most available today, and better than most available at ANY time.  In short, 'Stone of Tears' is a tremendous addition to an already Fantastic Fantasy series.  Buy it.  Read it.  Enjoy it.  Repeat.	2002-04-02
US	47950934	R35KZEXMJZ58LP	044023509X	144181912	Meltdown	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Almost as entertaining as 'Sea Change'	Unlike some of the other reviewers who actually *know* about the glaring errors that James Powlik has littered 'Meltdown' with, I simply did NOT excell in Nuclear Physics, so any and all of those mistakes simply passed me by, as they probably would the vast number of folks who are entirely unaware what a radioactive isotope can and cannot do to the human body.  What did *not* pass me by was a fun story.<br />Mistakes notwithstanding, I still found 'Meltdown' to be an exciting example of the action/adventure novels that are suddenly showing up over the past few years.  It wasn't long ago when if you wanted a novel in this particular genre, you had pretty much Clive Cussler to choose from, and that was about it (as far as what was worth reading...) but TODAY, things are a bit different (thank HEAVENS).  You can pick from Cussler, Du Brul, Matthew Reilly, James Rollins, James Byron Huggins and now you can add James Powlik to that growing list of authors to watch for.  While I personally did not find 'Meltdown' to be as thought-provoking and overall entertaining as I did his 1st novel ('Sea Change'), I DID find it to be full of a lot of what I personally look for when I open up a book like this: FUN.  It allowed me to temporarily forget my problems for a short while and there are a few places where you need to check your believability meter before progressing, but that's all in good fun as long as the storyline is just plain FUN -- which this one definitely IS.<br />IF you happen to pick apart novels based upon factual errors within a novel such as street locations, how radioactive material affects the human body, well you may want to skip 'Meltdown'...b-u-u-u-t if you can put all that aside and concentrate on the story as a whole, you will find yourself wrapped within a very entertaining scenario that bristles with action and suspense.  While not as action-packed as a story by Matthew Reilly (which is virtually IMPOSSIBLE for ANY novelist to pull off) I found myself rushing through this book enjoying virtually everything -- mistakes included.shing through this book enjoying virtually everything -- mistakes included.	2002-03-25
US	47950934	R26U23Y1MHQ7C6	0312266855	931157258	Area 7	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you're lookin' for action -- look NO FURTHER!	I fully understand that authors trying to be everything to everyone simply fail...so if you are looking for an action novel that has the ring of truth to every page, look elsewhere than Matthew Reilly.  However, IF you are looking to escape life for a little while and you want action, and I mean A-C-T-I-O-N the likes of which you have NEVER experienced before (unless you have read Mr. Reilly in the past), check out 'Area 7' ASAP.<br />Just attempting to detail the speed with which Reilly writes is a difficult task.  His writing is like captured energy that, once started, virtually takes off like a Tomahawk Missle on a course that NOBODY can stop.  If you don't believe me, give one of his novels a try.  'Area 7' is just another story -- scratch that, NOTHING that Reilly writes is 'just another' ANYTHING, 'Area 7' is a vehicle for an imagination that is hyped on speed and the only outlet is the written page.  This story begins as the newly elected President is on one of those military base tours when trouble finds its way into his life.  Never fear...with Mr. Reilly firmly in control, it won't take long for the plot to unfold at a blistering pace.  Somebody wants the Prez dead, and they want to do it in a really spectacular fashion -- with the entire country keeping tabs on his progress, or lack thereof.  One wickedly twisted ex-military Colonel takes over Area 7 with the goal of not just killing the President, but there are a few other objectives he intends to pull off along the way, ALL of which are quite horrific.  Add to that the world's first Laboratory-Created Ethnic Virus genetically engineered to kill based on RACE, and for good measure the Chinese have a Space Shuttle which factors into the mix with some rather thrilling results.  Is there absolutely ANYTHING within the pages of this (or any) Reilly adventure that can be believed?  NOPE.  B-u-u-u-t, if you can successfully suspend your belief from page 1 onward and just sit back and enjoy this for the mindless fun it was intended to be, well then you are in for a REAL treat.<br />If you have read Reilly's 'Ice Station' then you will welcome the return of Shane 'Scarecrow' Schofield in this tale.  Action piled on top of thrills & chills and even some escaped convicts factor into this Warp-Speed action/adventure that is almost (but not quite) as fun as Reilly's previous gem, 'Temple' (which I just LOVED).  In short, if you crave a tale with the scope of Clive Cussler, but with a plot that moves at literally the speed of sound, give Matthew Reilly a few minutes of your time and you will end up adding another author to your growing list of 'GOTTA READS'.  Absolutely positively mindless entertainment which succeeds on a grand scale.  CAUTION:  NOT for those who nit-pik the plausibility of everything.s fun it was intended to be, well then you are in for a REAL treat.<br />If you have read Reilly's 'Ice Station' then you will welcome the return of Shane 'Scarecrow' Schofield in this tale.  Action piled on top of thrills & chills and even some escaped convicts factor into this Warp-Speed action/adventure that is almost (but not quite) as fun as Reilly's previous gem, 'Temple' (which I just LOVED).  In short, if you crave a tale with the scope of Clive Cussler, but with a plot that moves at literally the speed of sound, give Matthew Reilly a few minutes of your time and you will end up adding another author to your growing list of 'GOTTA READS'.  Absolutely positively mindless entertainment which succeeds on a grand scale.  CAUTION:  NOT for those who nit-pik the plausibility of everything.	2002-03-12
US	47950934	R3EUKAPR14ZXRN	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Cold War Heat's up in these amazing (true) tales.	I am a part-time sub-a-holic and when I saw this novel I just could NOT resist it.  I have never served in the military so I am far from an authoratative voice on anything to do with the Navy and it's underwater exploits during the Cold War...however I KNOW what I like, and this book has as much intrigue and tension as ANY fiction novel that attempts to run silent and deep.<br />Ever since Clancy opened my eyes with 'The Hunt for Red October' I have been interested in reading more about nuclear submarines or subs in general...how they work, what it takes to shadow an enemy sub for hundreds if not thousands of miles all without being detected.  The drama that oozes from the pages of this book can be cut with a knife.  More hair-raising tales are still out there but due to national security, we won't be reading about them anytime soon, so in the meantime, crack open this thriller that has enough chills for any half-dozen fictional thrillers combined.<br />It absolutely rivited me at some of the REAL life-threatening missions that took place during the cold war.  Our underwater military should be given one amazing pat on the back for enduring such a game all in the name of protecting our boarders.<br />Some of the stories read like tall tales, which is exactly what makes them even more amazing.  Evading Russian ships that dropped depth charges on an American sub...attaching sophisticated listening devices on Russian telephone lines right under their NOSES...locating and retrieving an honest-to-goodness thermonuclear bomb that the Air Force 'accidentally' dropped in the Mediterranean...attempting to raise a sunken Russian submarine in the Pacific...the speculation on how America lost the Thresher and the Scorpion...these stories and much more await you within the pages of this historical account of our unsung heros of the deep.  If you find Michael DiMercurio or Tom Clancy to be facinating reading, do yourself a HUGE favor and grab this thriller...as they say, Truth IS stranger than fiction, and this novel PROVES it.  All I can say is my hat's off to ALL members of the Navy's Sub Force, especially those who were portrayed within the pages of 'Blind Man's Bluff'.stranger than fiction, and this novel PROVES it.  All I can say is my hat's off to ALL members of the Navy's Sub Force, especially those who were portrayed within the pages of 'Blind Man's Bluff'.	2002-03-11
US	47950934	R3SXZPDAUPQ37S	0446604534	75967530	Day of Confession	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nice fast read -- but not as good as the Day After Tomorrow	I can't remember how many times I went into the book store looking for Allan Folsom's follow-up to 'The Day After Tomorrow' easily one of the best action/adventure/spy novels of the past decade only to come up empty...that is until I saw 'Day of Confession'.  I just KNEW that my long wait was going to be more than worth it...I was just plain wrong.<br />Let me start off by saying I am NOT Catholic, but even I felt more than a little surprised at how some people beat up this religion endlessly.  Have a few members done some unpleasant things?  Yes, some have been downright horrific.  But I don't necessarily hold the entire Church responsible for the actions of a few.  This is where Mr. Folsom makes his effort here.  He doesn't pin the absolutely horrible plot that a few higher-up leaders of the Church are planning to pull on the shoulders of the Pope...however I just couldn't see it.  I am willing to put aside my believability meter when I crack open a LOT of novels, but for some reason, this plot seemed to go a little too far.  According to most novelists these days the entire world is in no short supply of people who are willing to sacrafice hundreds to millions of lives in order to get ahead in life, and for the sake of making a story more entertaining I guess that's okay, but Catholic Leaders knowingly pulling off this kind of stunt to gain a foothold in China is a bit farther than I'm willing to go.  I can't say WHY it rubbed me the wrong way, but it just did.<br />With that aside, I STILL enjoyed the vast scope of this particular conspiracy.  I'll give Folsom credit for being ambitious with his ideas, if not too outlandish.  The story rarely (if ever) let's up in pace and if you want action, there is plenty to spare here.  The inevitable comparisons to 'The Day After Tomorrow' are impossible to ignore.  His 1st novel was simply wonderful.  Intense.  Fast.  Thrilling.  Chilling, and most of all: FUN.  I could put aside almost every single bit of the implausibility because it was just bloody good fun.  I'm sorry to say I wasn't able to do that with this one.<br />I anxiously await Folsom's next novel to see if this was indeed a Sophomore Slump.  I very much hope that is exactly what it was.ty because it was just bloody good fun.  I'm sorry to say I wasn't able to do that with this one.<br />I anxiously await Folsom's next novel to see if this was indeed a Sophomore Slump.  I very much hope that is exactly what it was.	2002-03-08
US	47950934	R16SJG739HCRX8	0446600415	619563221	The Day After Tomorrow	Books	5	4	6	N	N	One of THE best action-packed thrillers out there!	I read 'The Day After Tomorrow' about 7 years ago (or so) and it STILL ranks as one of the greatest action/adventure/spy-thrillers I have ever read.  One thing that some reviewers seem<br />incapable of doing with this novel is to check their believable<br />meters at the opening page of this novel and just relax and enjoy.  I get tired of the over-critical reviewers who spew forth their rhetoric as though only THEY know what is good reading material and the rest of us ought to heed their council.<br />Is this novel believable?  Nope.  Is it entertaining?  YES -- in a VERY BIG WAY.<br />The action slingshot's the reader virtually from page one to the very end of this explosive thriller.  To this day I can't think of another book which starts with such ferocity.  This book doesn't just start, it get's LAUNCHED into motion...and you had better hold on tight, because it's nothing but twists and turns from there to the enormously entertaining end.  Just exactly what does murdered bodies without heads, and heads without bodies have to do with a man who looks JUST like the person who murdered our protagonists father years before?  I'd attempt to tell you, but this story is too complicated to do that in such a short amount of space that I have here, plus it'd give away way TOO much.  This entertaining yarn gave me several days of pure<br />escapism-entertainment.  I'm not the kind of person who reads a story just to pick apart the tiny microscopic problems...does the characters escape from perfectly impossible situations?  Yes, on MANY occasions.  But like James Bond escaping bullet's as though he applied 'Secret Agent Bullet Repellent' moments before dodging a dozen machine guns blaring at once, we KEEP watching because of one simple fact: The entertainment factor. With 'The Day After Tomorrow' Allan Folsom has created a tale that starts off with a bang, and keeps erupting into a full-scale nuclear explosion-of-a-plot.  Fast...thrilling...and MOST important: FUN.  If you can manage reading without being critical, set aside a weekend where you can be totally UN-interrupted, because once begun, you will NOT want to stop reading this runaway train of a novel.  As I said, to this day, this ranks as one of THE best novels of it's kind I have ever read.  As others have also noted, the VERY LAST LINE of this novel is worth the cover price alone...but you WILL RUIN the story if you jump ahead and read it...TRUST me, don't do it. HIGHLY recommended.<br />Also, if you enjoyed this story, pick up something by Matthew Reilly...the ONLY other author I have ever read who could sustain action even longer than Allan Folsom.  One more quick note, Folsom's next novel, 'Day of Confession' is GOOD, too--but NOT as good as 'The Day After Tomorrow'.ge reading without being critical, set aside a weekend where you can be totally UN-interrupted, because once begun, you will NOT want to stop reading this runaway train of a novel.  As I said, to this day, this ranks as one of THE best novels of it's kind I have ever read.  As others have also noted, the VERY LAST LINE of this novel is worth the cover price alone...but you WILL RUIN the story if you jump ahead and read it...TRUST me, don't do it. HIGHLY recommended.<br />Also, if you enjoyed this story, pick up something by Matthew Reilly...the ONLY other author I have ever read who could sustain action even longer than Allan Folsom.  One more quick note, Folsom's next novel, 'Day of Confession' is GOOD, too--but NOT as good as 'The Day After Tomorrow'.	2002-02-25
US	47950934	R29BR9HCZG6ZP2	0312981260	559539342	Temple	Books	5	2	4	N	N	An absolutely thrilling adventure...unbelievable, but FUN!	I pretty much stumbled upon Matthew Reilly's other novel, 'Ice Station' quite by accident, and found it to be one of (if not THE) most action-packed novels I have ever read.  The plot begins rapidly until you find yourself strapped to the back of the space shuttle on a non-stop ride to places that James Bond, Dirk Pitt & Indiana Jones couldn't even BEGIN to touch.  Was it even remotely believable?  NO WAY.  Was it unbelievably fun?  YOU BET.  I anxiously awaited Reilly's next foray into adventure-fiction, and that result is 'Temple'.<br />First off, let me begin by saying that 'Temple' is simply put, fine brain candy, and that's about it.  No thought-provoking scenarios...no intellectually stimulating theories...just an extremely fun story.  Is it over-the-top?  Pretty much.  But it was SO much fun I just dismissed the impossible scenarios because of the amazingly creative ways Reilly found to *help* the protagonist get out of impossible situations.<br />Now that I have that out of the way, this novel hooked me virtually from page 1 with the tale of a Spanish Monk setting free an Incan prisoner so he can spirit away an object that the Conquistadors want at all costs, and the Incan's are willing to die to protect.  What IS this idol, and why is it so valuable?<br />What would cause the Incans to be willing to die for such a thing?  Furthermore, why does the American Army and some Germans want with it?  Well apparently this idol was carved from a meteorite which fell in South America, and if properly used, the theory goes that it could be used to form a weapon which could conceivably destroy the entire planet.  The adventure which ensues to get it first is one entertaining ride.  Mixing adventure with the military isn't anything new, but Reilly makes it fresh with the sheer momentum of his story.  This is one rocket-of-a-ride, so be careful, if you are into fast-moving stories, and I DO mean fast, pick this one up, but make sure you have some time to spare 'cuz you will NOT want to put it down.<br />One other note, if you enjoyed this novel, pick up 'Excavation' by James Rollins, 'Domain' by Steve Alten and 'Link' by Walt Becker, ALL superb examples of action/adventure fiction with a South American twist.  Indiana Jones meets the X-Files types of stories that are on par with 'Temple' for excitement (although maybe not as fast moving).<br />Long story short, 'Temple' really IS a ride worth taking.  Jump on board and enjoy -- but be cautioned: this ride MAY require seatbelts.l NOT want to put it down.<br />One other note, if you enjoyed this novel, pick up 'Excavation' by James Rollins, 'Domain' by Steve Alten and 'Link' by Walt Becker, ALL superb examples of action/adventure fiction with a South American twist.  Indiana Jones meets the X-Files types of stories that are on par with 'Temple' for excitement (although maybe not as fast moving).<br />Long story short, 'Temple' really IS a ride worth taking.  Jump on board and enjoy -- but be cautioned: this ride MAY require seatbelts.	2002-02-12
US	47950934	R2GY0BAD1TBT0X	0399146725	839853850	The Jury	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another reason why Martini RULES the legal thriller dept.	If there was any doubt that Steve Martini was King of the legal thrillers, 'The Jury' should make that status firm and concrete.<br />While I still believe 'The Judge' to be Martini's best Paul Madriani novel-to-date, this story is yet another fantastic example of the legal thriller genre.<br />As you may remember, Paul Madriani, whom we first met in Martini's fantastic 'Compelling Evidence', has moved from Capitol City to San Diego to kinda start over after the death of his wife -- not so much for him, but for their daughter, too.  Of all the Madriani novels so far, I believe 'The Jury' to be the quickest starting.  You begin the novel quite literally in the middle of the murder trial which is the basis for this captivating story.  You can really see Martini's research in this story, maybe more so than usual.  The topic is a hot button for a good part of the country, and rightfully so: Racial Profiling.  But this story takes on a different angle when you add in genetics, micro-biological-robotics and more -- and no, this isn't anything science fiction.  No matter how sophisticated and technical the story gets, Martini handles the explanations in such a way that helps you understand without making you feel he had to 'dumb it down'.<br />I never really thought about this (maybe that's because I'm not a lawyer) but how would you defend your client against a charge of murder when they refuse to reveal critical information that can only serve to help their case?  This is the situation that Paul and Harry (his associate) find themselves in within the pages of 'The Jury'.  Dr. Crone is accused of murdering one of his employees, Kalista Jordan.  Did he do it?  What part does race play in this particular murder, or does it at all?  Why does Crone refuse to reveal to his lawyers what exactly his laboratory is working on?  Is it morally wrong?  Did someone else murder Kalista?  And the big question: WHY was Kalista killed?  Just when you are almost as frustrated at Crone as Harry and Paul are, Martini throws you a twist that could very well provide Crone with a free get out of jail card...but trust me, when you reach this point, just remember this story is far from over.  Yet another great example of why I personally believe Steve Martini to be the best legal thriller author published today.  Grisham is good, but this guy is simply GREAT.<br />I must admit, that the title, 'The Jury' IS a bit misleading... but it in no-way made the story any less entertaining... but where exactly IS this 'Jury'?  Other than in a few scenes in the book, I don't really know.  But I DO know that if you enjoy well-crafted murder-mysteries with sharp legal twists intricately weaved within, than you will be most pleased with this latest trip to the courtroom from Martini.  Oh, and if you enjoyed this one, look up his other Paul Madriani novels, 'Compelling Evidence', 'Prime Witness', 'Undue Influence', 'The Judge' and 'The Attorney'.  Not just good examples of the legal thriller genre, but some of the best ever (at least to me).arry and Paul are, Martini throws you a twist that could very well provide Crone with a free get out of jail card...but trust me, when you reach this point, just remember this story is far from over.  Yet another great example of why I personally believe Steve Martini to be the best legal thriller author published today.  Grisham is good, but this guy is simply GREAT.<br />I must admit, that the title, 'The Jury' IS a bit misleading... but it in no-way made the story any less entertaining... but where exactly IS this 'Jury'?  Other than in a few scenes in the book, I don't really know.  But I DO know that if you enjoy well-crafted murder-mysteries with sharp legal twists intricately weaved within, than you will be most pleased with this latest trip to the courtroom from Martini.  Oh, and if you enjoyed this one, look up his other Paul Madriani novels, 'Compelling Evidence', 'Prime Witness', 'Undue Influence', 'The Judge' and 'The Attorney'.  Not just good examples of the legal thriller genre, but some of the best ever (at least to me).	2002-01-30
US	47950934	RONFQ7LGTR2YX	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE Bar by which ALL Fantay is judged--and rightfully so	What can one say about the beginning to this series that hasn't already been said?  I shall try to throw in MY two cents anyway.<br />I have long considered Fantasy to be my all-time favorite genre, but have found pitifully few fantasy books that for me seemed to 'click' with what I was looking for.  I was introduced to 'The Sword of Shannara' and for years felt that IT was the Bar to be judged by--despite the nay-sayers who claimed that Brooks had borrowed shamelessly from Tolkien's works--but I refuted that over and over again, even though I had as yet never once read anything written BY Tolkien.  Oh I had tried.  I felt that the style was too weird for me, and somewhat childish when I gave it a go some 20 years ago.  I never once even attempted to realize that Tolkien had created a world based in part on his own studies of history, and imagined a complex society filled with different races, and from scratch he weaves a story that combined historical speech patterns with his own fantasy world...<br />in short, something entirely different, original AND totally entertaining.<br />To say that Tolkien was a genius doesn't even begin to describe his character and imaginiative abilities.  'The Fellowship of the Ring' begins the Lord of the Rings by bringing us to the Shire of Middle Earth with Bilbo Baggins celebrating his Eleventy-First birthday.  Shortly thereafter, he disappears (literally) leaving most of what he has to Frodo.  Before long the One Ring becomes the central point of what he has left to the poor unknowing Frodo.  Gandalf the Wizard informs him of the historical nature of the One Ring and of the impending danger that awaits every living creature of Middle Earth because Sauron wants it back and the Ring itself WANTS to be found.  Frodo quite obviously does not want this charge, but accepts it anyway, and before you know it, he is set upon with Samwise Gamgee on a quest that he believes will be a rather short adventure--and it turns out to be more, a LOT more.  From being chased by the Black Riders and Orcs to seeing sights he had never imagined and putting his life on the line more than he had ever thought possible, 'The Fellowship of the Ring' begins what is arguably the grandest Fantasy adventure ever written.  One cannot fully appreciate the detail of this magificent story without reading it yourself.  I imagine the release of the 1st movie in the Trilogy will spurn an interest in these books that hasn't been seen in several decades--or more.  If history is any indication, it should (the release of Dune in the 80's alone sold an additional million copies).<br />ANY person who enjoys Hard Fantasy owes it to themselves to see why The Lord of the Rings is so beloved and why it IS the Bar by which ALL Fantasy is judged.  As much as I enjoyed 'The Sword of Shannara', it doesn't even begin to reach the originality that Tolkien created so long ago...books that hold up now as good as they did when first published in the early 50's.  Once you have immersed yourself into this amazingly creative world, you will feel cheated unless you finish the tales that continue in 'The Two Towers' and 'Return of the King' (I recommend buying all 3 together, or getting the 3-in-1 volume so you won't have to agonize over what happens next when you finish the first part).<br />Finally, I feel as though I cheated myself all these years by not only ignoring these books, but by claiming that they were pale in comparison to Terry Brooks' 'Shannara' (which I still like, by the way).  Do NOT make MY mistake.  Pick these up and if nothing else, see the movie which will compell you to read the story to see how well the movie measures up (which by the way, is surprisingly good in My<br />opinion).  Read and enjoy.  This truly IS Fantasy at its all-time best.more.  From being chased by the Black Riders and Orcs to seeing sights he had never imagined and putting his life on the line more than he had ever thought possible, 'The Fellowship of the Ring' begins what is arguably the grandest Fantasy adventure ever written.  One cannot fully appreciate the detail of this magificent story without reading it yourself.  I imagine the release of the 1st movie in the Trilogy will spurn an interest in these books that hasn't been seen in several decades--or more.  If history is any indication, it should (the release of Dune in the 80's alone sold an additional million copies).<br />ANY person who enjoys Hard Fantasy owes it to themselves to see why The Lord of the Rings is so beloved and why it IS the Bar by which ALL Fantasy is judged.  As much as I enjoyed 'The Sword of Shannara', it doesn't even begin to reach the originality that Tolkien created so long ago...books that hold up now as good as they did when first published in the early 50's.  Once you have immersed yourself into this amazingly creative world, you will feel cheated unless you finish the tales that continue in 'The Two Towers' and 'Return of the King' (I recommend buying all 3 together, or getting the 3-in-1 volume so you won't have to agonize over what happens next when you finish the first part).<br />Finally, I feel as though I cheated myself all these years by not only ignoring these books, but by claiming that they were pale in comparison to Terry Brooks' 'Shannara' (which I still like, by the way).  Do NOT make MY mistake.  Pick these up and if nothing else, see the movie which will compell you to read the story to see how well the movie measures up (which by the way, is surprisingly good in My<br />opinion).  Read and enjoy.  This truly IS Fantasy at its all-time best.	2001-12-26
US	47950934	R2ZJB3VJQG2EM9	0060196254	751205471	The Associate	Books	4	4	5	N	N	While not Margolin's best, still a fun &amp; quick read...	First off, if you want one of the ALL-TIME BEST legal-thrillers, pick up Margolin's absolutely stunning, 'Gone, But Not Forgotten'...unfortunately for this author, he hit his stride quite early in his career--that isn't to say that he doesn't continue to produce above-average thrillers that continuously entertain and chill at the same time.  As with most authors, some are hit &amp; miss, but generally pretty good.  'The Associate'<br />is one such book.  Above average (in MY opinion) and VERY fast-paced.<br />Some have described this book as convoluted...but I disagree.  Does this book bounce from one area to another quickly?  YES.  Is it easy to get confused?  YES--b-u-u-u-t ONLY if you aren't<br />paying attention.  Reading this novel quickly is almost essential to appreciating its complexity.  On several instances over a 3-day period (which is how long it took me to read) I had<br />to re-read a few passages in order to catch up with the blistering pace and change of scenery.  This in NO WAY diminished my enjoyment of the plot.  It didn't take long before I realized WHO was responsible for the murders and horrific acts described in 'The Associate' but it was the accomplice that was<br />the REAL surprise, as I'm sure Margolin meant it to be.  Some have been critical of the lack of court-room scenes in the story, and while yes, most of the book takes place OUTSIDE of the a justice building, that also in NO WAY takes away from this story.<br />All in all I have to say that I have enjoyed Mr. Margolin's last couple of books quite a bit more than 'The Undertakers Widow' &amp;<br />'The Burning Man' combined.  For MY dollar, this is still one of MY personal favorite legal-thriller authors working today, and<br />many light years ahead of the best that Grisham has produced.  If you are even remotely interested in 'The Associate' and you have yet to pick up one of Margolin's earlier novels, do yourself a HUGE favor and check out 'The Last Innocent Man', 'After Dark', 'Wild Justice' or easily the BEST hard-core thriller I have EVER read to date: 'Gone, But Not Forgotten'--all are exceptional examples of the best that the legal-thriller genre has to offer.  Overall, I'd have to say I would recommend 'The Associate' as a fun and exciting read, and well worth the price.' or easily the BEST hard-core thriller I have EVER read to date: 'Gone, But Not Forgotten'--all are exceptional examples of the best that the legal-thriller genre has to offer.  Overall, I'd have to say I would recommend 'The Associate' as a fun and exciting read, and well worth the price.	2001-12-11
US	47950934	R1ZA6GVJK1OUC6	0451409434	14625707	Fantastic Voyage: Microcosm	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fantastic Voyage = One Fantastic Yarn	I still remember watching the original 'Fantastic Voyage' on TV many, many years ago and found myself totally immersed in the adventure.  I was thrilled to see the novel written by Isaac Asimov, although he based it upon the screenplay, which is something Isaac is definitely NOT known for doing.  He then went on to write his own version: 'Fantastic Voyage: Destination Brain' which again was fun, but I found it to be not quite up to the usual Asimov level of entertainment and intellectual stimulation.  Now comes Kevin J. Anderson and a version which takes us inside the body of a real alien.  Could there be a better premise for a novel about miniaturization?<br />I am happy to say that Anderson does a Fantastic job of taking an idea originated by someone else, and taking it to a higher level of science AND entertainment.  Now, it has been mentioned before that this book isn't going to make anyone smarter by reading it, but, it certainly WILL give you an entertaining thrill while you do.<br />I read some reviewers now and again who base a books readability upon an almost impossible set of statistics that virtually NO book will ever live up to...are the locations of each novel 100% accurate?  Is the science verifiable and factual?  I personally base MY enjoyment upon whether or not I actually ENJOY the story, NOT the messy details...not that they aren't important or appreciated when an author goes out of their way to do the research, but I personally don't believe miniaturization is possible--at least not yet anyway--and therefore NO amount of scientific explanation, no matter HOW plausible and sophisticated it sounds will suddenly sway my opinion on whether or not a novel is actually worth reading.  However, Anderson has written the technical details in such a way that whether or not miniaturization IS possible, it sure SOUNDS possible.<br />Oh yeah, one more thing:  This story MOVES.  Yes, it DOES take a chapter or two before the plot really unfolds, but trust me, when it finally takes flight, make sure your seatbelt is fastened and your tray is in the full and upright position 'cuz you suddenly go super-sonic super fast.  The imagination alone it took to craft this story is worth the price of the novel...but the fact that Anderson has given us a great story as well certainly underscores his raw talent at storytelling.  Buy this book and set aside an afternoon of virtual adventure in Innerspace...you won't be disappointed.when it finally takes flight, make sure your seatbelt is fastened and your tray is in the full and upright position 'cuz you suddenly go super-sonic super fast.  The imagination alone it took to craft this story is worth the price of the novel...but the fact that Anderson has given us a great story as well certainly underscores his raw talent at storytelling.  Buy this book and set aside an afternoon of virtual adventure in Innerspace...you won't be disappointed.	2001-12-06
US	47950934	R1LWAQHAOBD72L	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	As fantasy:  Good...as Sword of Truth:  okay at best	One reviewer claimed this novel to be a Parallel novel in the this series and not a TRUE 'Sword of Truth' novel, and I am 100% in agreement.  Where 'Pillars' DOES take place in the world of Richard &amp; Kahlan, these 'Main' characters are nowhere to be seen nor heard from until the VERY end of this story, and even THEN from the point of view of totally new characters.  At first I thought I was going to have to endure another story in the vein of 'Soul of the Fire' which if you remember brought forth the city of Anderith, and Richard &amp; Kahlan's involvement in that story was about half as much as the previous novels.  I am not a huge fan of 'Soul of the Fire' if you can't tell.  Also, the jacket cover for 'Pillars' misleads us into believing that our usual protagonists will be the center of this story--which they most assuredly are NOT.  I also noticed that of ALL the novels in this series, this is the ONLY one that does not claim to be a 'Sword of Truth' novel on the front.<br />With all of those complaints aside, I MUST admit, I STILL enjoyed this story--very much in fact.  While it still fell short of all but 'Soul of the Fire', it was a great story well told that anyone could read whether you had finished the 1st 6 novels or not.  In fact, this would have made a great first novel in the series rather than the 7th novel in this otherwise fantastic series and a pitiful follow-up to the fantastic 'Faith of the Fallen'.<br />'Pillars' begins with more tales of the Children of Darken Rahl, specifically Jennsen and another Drefan-like character named, Oba, who is slightly slow, but incredibly dangerous.  Jennsen has a somewhat chance meeting with Emperor Jagang's Strategist, Sebastian who on the outside seems to be a genuinely good person...but as we all know, ANYONE working for Jagang can't be all that good.  Jennsen has been in hiding her entire life from Quad's sent by Darken Rahl to kill his UN-Gifted seed.  She is<br />convinced by careful prodding from Sebastian that Darken Rahl's son and heir, Richard Rahl, has continued his Father's horrific trend of killing any threats to his throne.  Before long, Jennsen is on a quest to find, and kill Richard to end her suffering and to avenge the death of her Mother.  Oba is a slightly dim-witted man whose life is run by his drill-sergeant like mother.  She shows him very little (if any) compassion and insults him at every opportunity and Oba, like his half-sister, Jennsen, also hears voices.  The difference between the two are how they react TO those voices.  Once again, Terry Goodkind has constructed a great story that revolves around (mostly) Jennsen &amp; Sebastian and their quest to destroy Richard Rahl.  Aside from TOR books cheating us readers into believing this story to be a straight-forward Sword of Truth novel, I STILL have to hand it to Terry for entertaining me once again.  I must admit however, that I will be more careful when book #8 hits the stores, and if it too cheats us into thinking this is a full-on novel about Richard &amp; Kahlan and ISN'T, I will wait until it comes out in paperback, and even then I'll most likely wait until I see it at a used store before I pick it up.  Cheating the people who made Terry Goodkind the New York Times Bestselling author that he has become today means that unless he (and TOR books) changes the way they market novels, his continual trips up the bestseller list may have come to an end.ian that Darken Rahl's son and heir, Richard Rahl, has continued his Father's horrific trend of killing any threats to his throne.  Before long, Jennsen is on a quest to find, and kill Richard to end her suffering and to avenge the death of her Mother.  Oba is a slightly dim-witted man whose life is run by his drill-sergeant like mother.  She shows him very little (if any) compassion and insults him at every opportunity and Oba, like his half-sister, Jennsen, also hears voices.  The difference between the two are how they react TO those voices.  Once again, Terry Goodkind has constructed a great story that revolves around (mostly) Jennsen &amp; Sebastian and their quest to destroy Richard Rahl.  Aside from TOR books cheating us readers into believing this story to be a straight-forward Sword of Truth novel, I STILL have to hand it to Terry for entertaining me once again.  I must admit however, that I will be more careful when book #8 hits the stores, and if it too cheats us into thinking this is a full-on novel about Richard &amp; Kahlan and ISN'T, I will wait until it comes out in paperback, and even then I'll most likely wait until I see it at a used store before I pick it up.  Cheating the people who made Terry Goodkind the New York Times Bestselling author that he has become today means that unless he (and TOR books) changes the way they market novels, his continual trips up the bestseller list may have come to an end.	2001-12-03
US	47950934	RF900KAMHI2W6	0345397665	106893307	Antrax (Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 2)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	More like 4 1/2 stars...	I can't think of too many people that were more thrilled than I at the thought of a new Shannara series...and when 'Ilse Witch' came out, I was in Fantasy Heaven.  It was everything I could have wanted in a visit to the Four Lands.  Brooks (for MY money, anyway) started off this series with an absolutely fantastic 1st novel.  I truly loved 'Ilse Witch' very much...however, pulling off a sequel that lives up to the original is difficult at best, and although 'Antrax' IS a great addition to the Shannara world, I felt it was slightly under the thrills and high adventure set forth in book #1.<br />Maybe it has something to do with the amazing anticipation that had built up over the course of a years time waiting...all I know is I enjoyed it VERY much, but slightly less than 'Ilse Witch'.  Now that isn't to say that it isn't a great tale well told...not at all.  On the contrary, 'Antrax' is filled with<br />everything that makes adventure fantasy worth reading.  Many have faulted Brooks with adding a slightly Sci Fi feel to this story, but I personally found it interesting, creative and fun.<br />After all, this is HIS story to tell, so I say let Terry write whatever he wishes.<br />'Antrax' is a semi-sentient computer left over from 'The Old World' before whatever cataclysmic events occurred to alter the world into what we have come to know as the Land of Shannara.  This computer was given a directive by its creators to preserve *something* at ALL costs until their return.  Well its been several thousand years, and the creators aren't likely to make an appearance anytime soon.  Antrax has determined that although it can theoretically live forever, its power source cannot, and before long, it will be on the verge of shut down.  It has hatched a scheme worthy of any devious mind, and is now using the Voyagers from both Black Moclips and the Jerle Shannara in ways they couldn't possibly understand in order to achieve its goals.<br />Several characters make interesting discoveries in this 2nd novel...most of which are about themselves.  Some reviewers have also faulted Brooks for ending this story just as the *real* action was just beginning instead of finishing up the story.  But like ANY good series, this one hooks you into thirsting for the final volume coming in November of 2002.  Will I buy it?  You BET!!  I have invested plenty into the world of Shannara and have been nothing but satisfied.  One reviewer actually likened this story to 'The Empire Strikes Back' and that is actually a good description.  It gives us a full story at the same time creating a cliff-hanger for us ensuring our desire for another trip to the Four Lands.  I am anxious to discover how Bek comes into his own and learns how to finally convince his sister of his true origins and how he will manage to convert The Ilse Witch to his side, and what exactly is being guarded by Antrax underneath the grounds of Castledown...all of these questions have been set up with perfection by an author who in the world of Fantasy is 2nd to none.  'Antrax' IS a great story, and chances are if you love Shannara books, you will love this one, too.  Kudos to Terry Brooks amazingly creative mind.overies in this 2nd novel...most of which are about themselves.  Some reviewers have also faulted Brooks for ending this story just as the *real* action was just beginning instead of finishing up the story.  But like ANY good series, this one hooks you into thirsting for the final volume coming in November of 2002.  Will I buy it?  You BET!!  I have invested plenty into the world of Shannara and have been nothing but satisfied.  One reviewer actually likened this story to 'The Empire Strikes Back' and that is actually a good description.  It gives us a full story at the same time creating a cliff-hanger for us ensuring our desire for another trip to the Four Lands.  I am anxious to discover how Bek comes into his own and learns how to finally convince his sister of his true origins and how he will manage to convert The Ilse Witch to his side, and what exactly is being guarded by Antrax underneath the grounds of Castledown...all of these questions have been set up with perfection by an author who in the world of Fantasy is 2nd to none.  'Antrax' IS a great story, and chances are if you love Shannara books, you will love this one, too.  Kudos to Terry Brooks amazingly creative mind.	2001-11-26
US	47950934	R2DMOILNM2HXW2	0451409639	288379770	Pandora's Curse (Philip Mercer (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Jack Du Brul--the NEXT Clive Cussler	It was entirely by accident that I ended up reading Jack Du Brul, but after finishing 'Vulcan's Forge' I realized that the heir to the action/adventure throne originally dominated by Clive Cussler had finally arrived.  I was a bit skeptical--at first, but after finishing 'Charon's Landing' I realized it was no mistake.  Then came 'The Medusa Stone' and I came to the conclusion that Clive Cussler had serious competition.  I am happy to report that 'Pandora's Curse' proves once and for all that Phillip Mercer can stand toe to toe with Dirk Pitt anytime, anyplace, anywhere.<br />This story is a complex one that takes you in several directions at once--but never fear, Du Brul keeps a tight reign on this story and never lets you drift too far in any one direction without pulling you somewhere else--all moving you in a careful orchestration that comes together nicely as the story unfolds.<br />At first I couldn't fathom what a luxury liner filled with the world's religious leaders had to do with Nazi's and a search for<br />something in Greenland that could spell the end of life on earth as we know it.  TRUST me, Du Brul pulls it off.<br />It seems to me that some folks who read these books can easily accept Dirk Pitt's daring do escapes from certain death over and over and over again in impossible situations, but when Phillip Mercer does it, well it just ain't right.  Anyone with an open mind will enjoy this and all of Du Brul's adventures for what they are: Adventure FICTION meant to entertain--and entertain it DOES.  Phillip Mercer isn't a character to be taken seriously, and I don't think Du Brul wants us to believe that the situations described in the novel WILL come true...but oh what a ride they take us on!  Take James Bond for instance...does anyone take HIS adventures seriously?  I don't think so.  But we DO go along for the ride simply because of how much fun we KNOW we're gonna have along the way.  Same goes for 'Pandora's Curse' and all of Du Brul's novels.<br />Finally, I don't draw the connection between Dirk Pitt and Phillip Mercer to suggest one is a clone of the other--far from it.  Both are entirely different and they are ONLY similar because I cannot think of any other character that can be used to describe the 'type' of story that you will find when you read Du Brul's novels.  If you find yourself a fan of Clive Cussler,<br />and you haven't yet discovered Jack Du Brul yet, consider yourself fortunate because you now have several of his novels to look forward to reading (and I recommend reading them in order--but you don't have to).<br />Jack Du Brul really IS the finest adventure author on the scene today (to quote Clive himself).  Get to know Phillip Mercer.  These are adventures well worth taking.  Kudos once again to Jack and his amazingly creative imagination.  I very much look forward now to Mercer's next quest.  Highly Recommended.>Finally, I don't draw the connection between Dirk Pitt and Phillip Mercer to suggest one is a clone of the other--far from it.  Both are entirely different and they are ONLY similar because I cannot think of any other character that can be used to describe the 'type' of story that you will find when you read Du Brul's novels.  If you find yourself a fan of Clive Cussler,<BR>and you haven't yet discovered Jack Du Brul yet, consider yourself fortunate because you now have several of his novels to look forward to reading (and I recommend reading them in order--but you don't have to).<br />Jack Du Brul really IS the finest adventure author on the scene today (to quote Clive himself).  Get to know Phillip Mercer.  These are adventures well worth taking.  Kudos once again to Jack and his amazingly creative imagination.  I very much look forward now to Mercer's next quest.  Highly Recommended.	2001-10-04
US	47950934	R60DKWSROGX5Y	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Valhalla Rising proves Cussler IS the King of all Action	For us die-hard Cussler fans, waiting for a new Dirk Pitt novel is like an addict waiting for that next fix. Sometimes the wait can be excruciating. Of course, some waits are more satisfying than others, but they ALWAYS manage to entertain. The same goes for 'Valhalla Rising'. While not necessarily as fulfilling as 'Atlantis Found' (in my opinion) I still found this to be an above-average Cussler adventure.<br />It is a genuine thrill to see just how the events at the beginning of each of the Dirk Pitt stories will impact the rest of the plot, and Cussler has given us not one, but TWO separate events ranging between early Vikings who visited Northeast America to the possibility of Jules Verne basing the story of '20,000 Leagues Under The Sea' on actual events. Finding out how these seemingly unrelated events will tie in with the rest of the story is of course half of the fun of your traditional Dirk Pitt adventure. 'Valhalla Rising' starts off with a bang, literally. The newest, most sophisticated luxury liner afloat suddenly begins to burn, and a series of unfortunate mishaps insure that before long, the ship becomes doomed. Pitt and a NUMA survey ship sees the ship ablaze and investigates and the story unfolds from there. After the rescue and later being abandoned in the middle of the ocean in a tiny submersible and a few other implausible (but fun nevertheless) narrow escapes from death, a search is on to find the hidden laboratory of a scientist who was a sheer genius, and who just might have a part in inventing the most incredible oil substitute the world has ever known.<br />I admit I read a few of the reviews before cracking the pages of 'Valhalla Rising' and although nobody actually came out and spoiled the surprise that Cussler springs at the end, I managed to make an educated guess and I was almost 100% right as to exactly 'what' the surprise actually was. I am by no means a plot genius, but as I read, my imagination went to work as to what it could have been, and I just happened to get it pretty close--actually only about half-right (read it and you'll figure out what I mean). There has been talk for a few years about Cussler ending his amazing Dirk Pitt adventures, but as others have noted, I don't think that Clive is ready to do that just yet...and fortunate for us Pitt fans, we'll have more adventures to look forward to for (hopefully) years to come. I find myself looking forward to the next book now with more anticipation than I have in a very long time. Unlike others who have been upset with Cussler over the 'surprise' at the end, I personally enjoyed it and has reminded me once again just why I read this<br />incredibly talented writer in the first place. Long live Clive and Dirk Pitt.been, and I just happened to get it pretty close--actually only about half-right (read it and you'll figure out what I mean). There has been talk for a few years about Cussler ending his amazing Dirk Pitt adventures, but as others have noted, I don't think that Clive is ready to do that just yet...and fortunate for us Pitt fans, we'll have more adventures to look forward to for (hopefully) years to come. I find myself looking forward to the next book now with more anticipation than I have in a very long time. Unlike others who have been upset with Cussler over the 'surprise' at the end, I personally enjoyed it and has reminded me once again just why I read this<BR>incredibly talented writer in the first place. Long live Clive and Dirk Pitt.	2001-09-24
US	47950934	R60S2IG0J5JO3	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Another literary home run for Sheldon Siegel!	FINALLY!! In a field of novels that has started to become rather stale in the past few years, Sheldon Siegel has injected an impressive dose of adrenaline with his first novel, 'Special Circumstances' and now with his just-as-good sequel, 'Incriminating Evidence', the trend continues. By now we have become familiar with criminal defense attorney Mike Daley, who is fast becoming my favorite protagonist in the legal thriller genre.<br />Mike is an attorney with a conscience. A former Priest who maintains a legal practice with his ex-wife, Mike Daley is suddenly forced to deal with a situation which takes him literally by surprise: San Francisco DA Prentice Gates, a not-too-friendly competitor, is arrested when a male prostitute is found dead in his hotel room, bound, gagged and handcuffed to the bed. Decisions, decisions...as much as Mike would like to relish the situation and kick him while he's down, his conscience kicks in--as well as that little voice in the back of his head that says 'we need more clients'--and he accepts the job of defending his arch rival in a murder case with so much incriminating evidence against Prentice, that it looks like he will be defending a guilty man. Sheldon Siegel, knowing what it takes to make a good legal-thriller exceptional, teases us with just enough information to make us question over and over again<br />WHO actually did the killing? As I read this book, I began to suspect everyone from Prentice's best friend, his daughter, shady<br />business partners, the male prostitute's pimp, even his wife--and then back to Prentice himself...finely crafted and tuned just right, 'Incriminating Evidence' deserves to be an enormous best seller.  For fans of Steve Martini, Richard North Patterson, Phillip Margolin and Grisham, do yourself a HUGE favor and add Sheldon Siegel to this short list of A-List authors...yes, he IS that good. I very much look forward to Mike Daley volume 3. Highly recommended.	2001-09-06
US	47950934	R7BY4FIO8FSRV	0553581929	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sheldon Siegel, the newest master of legal-suspense	I personally find legal thrillers to be one of my personal favorite genres, and I am constantly looking to find new authors who can add a fresh twist to a field that has been slightly tarnished by some who really don't have the talent that their book sales would indicate. That fresh new author is Sheldon Siegel. In his very first time at bat, Sheldon has hit a home run with 'Special Circumstances'. A compelling story featuring one of the best protagonists since Martini introduced the first Paul Madriani novel. Mike Daley, a man with many problems, the least of which is as the novel opens, is coming to terms with his last day working for the largest firm on the West coast, Simpson &amp; Gates. It is a bitter-sweet moment for Mike, who doesn't relish the thought of going it alone, but isn't thrilled to stay at a firm where he is treated so poorly by a good number of his partners. Before we know it, on Mike's last day, before the big end-of-year meeting is to begin, the announcement is made: two of the firms lawyers are found dead, an apparent murder/suicide...or was it? All isn't as it seems in this carefully plotted murder/mystery, which is exactly why I enjoy them so much. Mike's best friend, Joel, is suddenly the prime suspect, and with plenty of fanfare, is arrested at his home in front of his wife, children, parents and friends. Mike quickly jumps to his aid and volunteers to help see what he can do. Prentice Marshall Gates III, a former partner in the Simpson &amp; Gates firm, recently elected San Francisco's District Attorney, and head of the 'Boot Mike from the firm club' decides as his first job as DA to actually prosecute this case by himself. A very unusual thing for a DA to ever do, but as usual, his motives are ALWAYS self-serving and he believes if he can nail his first major case while in office, he will cement his future goal of becoming State Attorney General, which is just a stepping stone to Governor of California. Mistakes, piled on top of shocking revelations and uncovering the dirty secrets of Simpson &amp; Gates is all wicked good fun here. Siegel has crafted an amazing debut novel, and more than anything, made me thirst for his follow-up, 'Incriminating Evidence'. A reader can ask no more than to be entirely entertained by the books they read, and with 'Special Circumstances', being entertained is a virtual certainty. Oh yeah, the final revelation at the end was a fantastic wrap to an already tremendously fun read. Highly Recommended.revelations and uncovering the dirty secrets of Simpson &amp; Gates is all wicked good fun here. Siegel has crafted an amazing debut novel, and more than anything, made me thirst for his follow-up, 'Incriminating Evidence'. A reader can ask no more than to be entirely entertained by the books they read, and with 'Special Circumstances', being entertained is a virtual certainty. Oh yeah, the final revelation at the end was a fantastic wrap to an already tremendously fun read. Highly Recommended.	2001-08-24
US	47950934	R2SL8OAEUR0IDR	0312867417	8432795	Wizardborn (The Runelords, Book 3)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	The thinking persons fantasy adventure...	While searching desperately for a fun and exciting new fantasy series to begin a few years back, I ran into 'The Runelords' and it was everything I wanted out of High Fantasy, and more.  While there are a few who found it did not live up to expectations, I personally found it to be VERY fulfilling.  I am extremely picky when it comes to fantasy.  Jordan is nothing more than an extended bore-fest for me, however, I found David Farland's storytelling style to *click* with me just right.<br />Book two picked up where 'The Sum Of All Men' left off, and kept me spellbound.  I anxiously awaited 'Wizardborn' with anticipation while wondering if Farland could sustain this story so well after 2 well-written stories.  The answer to that is YES. Rarely have I read a series of novels that taught me as much as I have learned while reading this series.  Very thought provoking as well as entertaining.  The characters have been well thought out, and even the Reavers, who at first seemed to be a background annoyance, have turned into very serious characters who think and feel...NOTHING at ALL like what you'd expect from monster-like characters in your average (or even above-average) Fantasy novels.  Even the reigning bad guy (Raj) is more than 2-dimensional.  Farland is continuously surprising me with this series, something that is almost unheard of in this genre (aside from the explosively unpredictable Song of Ice &amp; Fire series by George R. R. Martin).  As entertaining as it is<br />original, the 'Runelords' novels rank up there with some of the best I have ever found.  If you are open to a new and thrilling experience in the field of fantasy, get to know David Farland's world...it is an adventure well worth taking, and one I will be sad to see end.	2001-08-16
US	47950934	R1T7NST6YAYNKU	031286129X	882773191	Eden's Gate (Bill Lane)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	ALL the elements of a finely tuned &amp; very fun thriller	David Hagberg sure does know how to weave a spell of excitement. Some of his best stuff has been written with his CIA adventure seeker, Kirk McGarvey, but the character of Bill Lane originally started under his pen name, Sean Flannery.  Just as fun as anything else in his impressive repetoire of literary home run's, 'Eden's Gate' is just plain fun.  The easiest way to describe this tale is a dash of James Bond, a bit of Indiana Jones and a touch of Dirk Pitt all rolled into one.  Adventure that moves at a brisk pace throughout the novel from Montana to Germany to the High Seas, this story just never let's up.  What exactly is it about Nazi atrocities, from the true to the entirely fictional that keeps us coming back for more?  I can't exactly say as I have the answer to this question, but I will say that as long as the story is as compelling and as fun as this one, you can bet we'll keep buying them up.<br />This was my first Bill Lane novel, but rest assured I am going to find the earlier ones and tear into them as well.  Word has it that Hagberg is working on his final Kirk McGarvey novel, which leads me to believe that Bill Lane may be Hagberg's answer to the soon-to-be-asked question: What happened to Kirk?  If the other Bill Lane novels are as exciting as 'Eden's Gate', rest assured, we won't feel the sting of McGarvey's loss nearly as much.  Kudo's to Hagberg, this is really a fun story.	2001-08-16
US	47950934	R2L2HBRW0Y1I49	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It pains me to say this, but Airframe is just okay...	I am a HUGE Michael Crichton fan, and I was absolutely thrilled when I picked up a copy of Airframe...coming off what I thought was a perfect sequel to Jurassic Park, I figured that he was on a roll.  To say that Crichton does his homework on his subjects is like saying a brain surgeon must do a little schooling in order to perform operations...this is NOT in debate.  I found the research to be absolutely facinating, and if I were to judge Airframe based on pure background work, it'd be a 5-Star plus novel...however I am somewhat more picky and base my reviews on the total package, and in that, I am sorely afraid that Airframe left me wanting.  That isn't to say that it isn't a facinating and fun read, but compared to some of his other novels, it just fell short--for ME anyway.<br />I would be hard pressed to cite specific details of the 'why' but based upon content, the storyline and the ultimate outcome of the novel, I just felt that it left me flat.  It starts off as exciting as pretty much any of his previous novels, and the investigation following the *incident* is thoroughly entertaining--but even though I can't seem to put my finger on exactly what it is, Airframe just didn't do *it* for me.  I must say however, that his next novel,  'Timeline', was a very pleasant surprise, one that I enjoyed very much.	2001-08-14
US	47950934	RXBR6YJZZF44	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Patterson's *formula* get's fine tuned with Roses...	Patterson has been literally ripped apart by some for using the formula that he has developed and fine tuned in his Alex Cross series...now while I admit some of his stories are more triple plays rather than home-run's, but it's a formula that WORKS.  Many authors work for YEARS and are never able to pull off the success that James Patterson has managed to achieve.  I am totally at a loss as to why those who enjoy some of the Alex Cross stories hate others...Go figure.<br />I happen to enjoy very much the ENTIRE series featuring one of the greatest characters in modern day crime-fiction: Alex Cross. Now while I enjoyed 'Pop Goes The Weasel', I found 'Roses Are Red' to be a cut above the last couple of Cross adventures.  In this tale, Alex is up against the Mastermind, or so he calls himself.  A genius at plotting and executing bank robberies, the likes of which haven't been seen successfully pulled off in a very long time.  The difficult part about these crimes is that even though they were able to pull off the job, people needlessly died.  Was it a tiny mistake on the part of the Mastermind, or were they meant to die?  This is just one of the many things weighing heavily upon the mind of Alex Cross in this story.  It seems as though NOTHING is working in his favor.  Christine is still in shock at her year-long ordeal at the hands of the Weasel, and is becoming distant from Alex...his daughter Jannie faces a potentially life-threatening situation, all while the Mastermind is pulling off crime after crime, but always a step ahead and NEVER ONCE keeping to a specific pattern, which is absolutely maddening to Alex.  These criminals if nothing else are predictably insane...but the Mastermind is different. Patterson keeps us guessing all the way through, and even when you THINK you've got it all figured out, you STILL won't.  It sure does open up the door for future storylines based upon how this one ended, also leaving the door open for the return of the Weasel, too.  I think all in all 'Roses Are Red' was a very satisfying read and well worth the price I paid in hardback.  Patterson is a truly gifted author who has found his niche, and call it formula all you want, as long as he keeps it up, he can call me a fan.think all in all 'Roses Are Red' was a very satisfying read and well worth the price I paid in hardback.  Patterson is a truly gifted author who has found his niche, and call it formula all you want, as long as he keeps it up, he can call me a fan.	2001-08-07
US	47950934	RT71BBNTW51BR	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Greg Iles: the Alfred Hitchcock of suspense thrillers	After reading 'The Quiet Game', easily the best myster/legal-thriller I have ever read, I was anxiously waiting for '24-Hours' and let me say right here and now, it was one of the most thrilling stories I have read in a long time.  Taking place pretty much over the course of just 24-hours, the pace is frenetic at the very least and once in motion, quite literally never let's up.<br />The plot is absolutely chilling to anyone who is a parent: your child being kidnapped for ransom.  The thing about kidnapping in this country is: the culprits almost never succeed.  The FBI captures virtually all of the criminals who are stupid enough to use kidnapping as a means to get rich quick.  This is where Joey comes in.  He knows how unsuccessful snatching people for ransom is, so he devises a nearly foolproof plan that has worked like a charm 5 times-in-a-row...but that is before Joey decides to make a grab for Abbey, the diabetic daughter of Karen &amp; Will Jennings. His idea is actually incredibly simple: grab the kid, take them someplace isolated...hold Mom and Dad in two other separate locations keeping them apart for the entire 24-hours it takes to pull off the *plan*...which means you need 3 kidnappers in order to make the *plan* work.  What Joey did NOT count on, was the determination of Karen &amp; Will.  Y'see, Joey is going to make this the FINAL *plan* and intends to move out of country and enjoy the spoils of his evil ways with his partners.  He also has something special in store for Will in particular, making this last operation one not only of kidnapping, but of sweet revenge.  I can't tell you the WHY, because finding out is half the fun of this rocket-ride of a novel.  I CAN tell you that once you begin this thriller, you will be hopelessly caught up in Greg Iles' fertile imagination, one that won't let you go until you reach the final page.  The explosive climax is worthy of Hollywood's biggest chase scenes.  Word has it that Hollywood is interested in turning this story into a movie, and as long as they didn't screw it up, it would be a great one, too.<br />I only gave '24-Hours' 4 stars simply because after finishing 'The Quiet Game' I was absolutely stunned with how amazing it was.  Greg Iles is a truly gifted storyteller, and it was almost impossible to equal that novel (in my opinion) and as good as '24-Hours' really is, 'The Quiet Game' is still my favorite novel by him.  Do NOT let that influence you into NOT buying this book, on the contrary, buy it, read it and enjoy because it is a fabulous book that deserves ALL the positive reviews it has received--and NONE of the negative ones.  I am truly mystified at those who did not like this book, and actually went out of their way to bash it.  Go figure.  For ME, it was great and I Highly Recommend it.g this story into a movie, and as long as they didn't screw it up, it would be a great one, too.<br />I only gave '24-Hours' 4 stars simply because after finishing 'The Quiet Game' I was absolutely stunned with how amazing it was.  Greg Iles is a truly gifted storyteller, and it was almost impossible to equal that novel (in my opinion) and as good as '24-Hours' really is, 'The Quiet Game' is still my favorite novel by him.  Do NOT let that influence you into NOT buying this book, on the contrary, buy it, read it and enjoy because it is a fabulous book that deserves ALL the positive reviews it has received--and NONE of the negative ones.  I am truly mystified at those who did not like this book, and actually went out of their way to bash it.  Go figure.  For ME, it was great and I Highly Recommend it.	2001-08-01
US	47950934	R2ZKVW6LGQ634A	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Without a doubt, the BEST legal-thriller I have read	While I will always look forward to the day when Greg Iles returns to his literary roots by writing more historical fiction, I must admit that 'The Quiet Game' took me totally by surprise. I always thought in order to author world-class legal-thrillers, you had to be either a practicing attorney, or a former lawyer at LEAST...Greg Iles certainly puts that theory to rest. Simply put, 'The Quiet Game' caught me quite literally from the opening pages and held me captive to the very end.<br />Penn Cage, a former attorney-turned-successful author is returning back to his home of Natchez, Mississippi after the death of his wife, partly for himself, and partly for his daughter who could use the sight of her loving Grandparents to keep her mind off Mommy. This visit will be nothing like Penn had in mind, and everything that Penn never wanted. Within just a couple days, an interview in the local paper takes on a life of its own, and someone makes an attempt on his life. But this is far from the ONLY problem that Penn has at this moment. He is also working on a problem that is slowly ruining his Father, and by itself could possibly damage beyond repair, his own career. All of this is set around minor sub-plots that Iles manages to treat like major ones, all without sacrificing the main storyline. Is Race relations still a problem in Natchez? Who benefits from digging up a long-lost racial killing in 1968, and who wants it buried forever? The answers may surprise you in this incredibly original and always entertaining story. All at once, Greg Iles manages to place this story in league with every major Legal-Thriller author in print, and better than most of them, too. If you find Grisham to be the leader of these types of books, I invite you to discover the story that proves beyond a reasonable doubt that Grisham IS amazingly over-rated. If you like this particular genre, then find out for yourself why Greg Iles is one of THE greatest thriller authors writing today, and 'The Quiet Game' really shows this Gifted Storyteller at the top of his form.<br />Do yourself one incredible favor:  Give this a shot and totally ignore the negative reviews.  It is quite literally a book to savor and put aside to re-read in the near future.  The plot is explosive and amazingly complicated without getting lost or impossible to follow.  You'll find characters that are as flawed as anyone and more than 2-dimensional, too--in short, you will find yourself wondering more than once whether or not this story is fiction or is Greg Iles drawing upon some secret never-before-heard nasty story from his hometown...?  All in all, this story is without a doubt, the BEST legal-thriller I have ever read, and I have read them ALL.  I hate to raise expectations so much that it may be impossible for this book to live up to, but for ME, I can honestly say that it gave me one incredibly amazing ride of emotions for the 4 days it took me to finish (which is lightning fast for a guy like me).  Not just good, but absolutely fantastic.  I now look less forward to Greg returning to Historical Fiction as in his first two novels, and more towards another venture into the murder/mystery/legal arena that he has come to succeed in as well as ANYONE.uiet Game' really shows this Gifted Storyteller at the top of his form.<br />Do yourself one incredible favor:  Give this a shot and totally ignore the negative reviews.  It is quite literally a book to savor and put aside to re-read in the near future.  The plot is explosive and amazingly complicated without getting lost or impossible to follow.  You'll find characters that are as flawed as anyone and more than 2-dimensional, too--in short, you will find yourself wondering more than once whether or not this story is fiction or is Greg Iles drawing upon some secret never-before-heard nasty story from his hometown...?  All in all, this story is without a doubt, the BEST legal-thriller I have ever read, and I have read them ALL.  I hate to raise expectations so much that it may be impossible for this book to live up to, but for ME, I can honestly say that it gave me one incredibly amazing ride of emotions for the 4 days it took me to finish (which is lightning fast for a guy like me).  Not just good, but absolutely fantastic.  I now look less forward to Greg returning to Historical Fiction as in his first two novels, and more towards another venture into the murder/mystery/legal arena that he has come to succeed in as well as ANYONE.	2001-07-23
US	47950934	R12A0YGN9KURMA	0380818809	87950657	Deep Fathom	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Rollin's Improves yet again in this undersea adventure	Having become hooked on James Rollins from a few pages into his first adventure, 'Subterranean' and the subsequent 'Excavation' I was pleasantly surprised to see 'Deep Fathom' hit the book shelves recently.  It didn't take long for the storyline to take shape.  One of the many reasons I enjoy his books is how quickly he gets to the point and right into the thick of the adventure.<br />This particular yarn takes place on the first eclipse of the new century...a day which starts off with promise, but ends in tragedy.  Solar flares off the sun spark a series of catastrophic earthquakes along the entire Pacific Rim from America to Japan wreaking the highest toll in devastation in modern history.  But in the midst of all this, new wonders are found and they lead to the gateway of even more disaster. Ex Navy SEAL Jack Kirkland is strong-armed into assisting the Navy in an undersea salvage of the recently downed Air Force One when he discovers something amazing on the ocean's floor.  Jump to Okinawa where two scientists locate a previously never-before-seen set of pyramids which surface from the ocean's depths as a result of the recent quakes.  Where did they come from?  And more importantly, WHO built them, and WHY are they being guarded by a strange band of mercenaries?  How do these two seemingly different situations connect?  You'll have to read the book, but I warn you: cracking open this book is like beginning an addiction, you won't think of much else until the very satisfying conclusion.  In the midst of a new nuclear confrontation between America and China...a war sparked by a new and prejudiced former V.P.-turned Presient, is a small group of people forced to work together attempting to avert the greatest disaster the world has ever known.  'Deep Fathom' is grand adventure the likes of which you'd have to read Cussler to see its equal.  Really fun stuff and a total guilty pleasure.	2001-07-20
US	47950934	RS9EEO8CA14S6	0553110721	698766211	Dune: House Harkonnen	Books	4	3	4	N	N	STILL falls short of the Dune glory--but again, not bad...	After having tackled House Atreides, I was better prepared for what House Harkonnen was going to offer me...until that is I actually started to read it.  As others have noted, if you have read the Masterpiece Dune already (and there is no point in reading these prequels if you haven't), you know EXACTLY what is going to happen to the chief characters.  In this, there is no possible surprise that the authors could pull...however, it's the secondary characters which offer up the biggest surprise of 'House Harkonnen'.<br />Not only is it a pleasant surprise, but I wasn't prepared for the speed at which the story progresses.  Now as we all know, 'Dune' wasn't the quickest moving story to hit the presses, but the lack of plot speed in NO WAY diminished that amazing tale.  If 'House Harkonnen' had attempted to move at that same pace it would fall on its face in miserable disgrace.  On the contrary, the speed of this 2nd prequel takes off and moves at a surprising pace, which hardly lets up at all.  It also is filled with a great deal of violence, too.  It illustrates in vivid detail the lengths at which the Harkonnens are willing to go to redefine the word 'Atrocity'.<br />Now let me be clear on one thing:  While admirable in their attempt to continue what is arguably the greatest sci-fi series ever written, the first two books in the planned prequel trilogy are FAR from even coming CLOSE to the original classic novels. I find these two books entertaining however mostly because no matter how much I think I know about the Dune Universe, I can really see the incredible research that Brian Herbert &amp; Kevin J. Anderson have put into their work.  In fact, it was a very pleasant surprise to see them bring up facts and characters that I had forgotten about, and didn't even see coming.  Despite all of their homework and admirable attempts, 'House Harkonnen' was still ultimately predictable and carried almost none of the depth of the original series.  I gave this 4 stars mostly due to effort here, and while not easy, I tried to judge it entirely upon its own merits, and not compared to Franks inspired books. Based upon that, and that alone, 'House Atreides' and 'House Harkonnen' are what I would call a summer beach book.  Fun and fast moving, but nothing to be truly impressed over.  If you are a serious Dune fan, just TRY to read it and NOT compare it to the other books...it ain't easy--but it CAN be done, and under those circumstances is a worthy addition to the Dune saga.ly due to effort here, and while not easy, I tried to judge it entirely upon its own merits, and not compared to Franks inspired books. Based upon that, and that alone, 'House Atreides' and 'House Harkonnen' are what I would call a summer beach book.  Fun and fast moving, but nothing to be truly impressed over.  If you are a serious Dune fan, just TRY to read it and NOT compare it to the other books...it ain't easy--but it CAN be done, and under those circumstances is a worthy addition to the Dune saga.	2001-07-11
US	47950934	R2R48EGT5TBSXK	0671000314	611699839	Flood Tide	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More like 4 and-a-half stars	For those who pick up 'Flood Tide' without first reading 'Shock Wave' may be a bit confused as to why Dirk is in such a depressed state-of-mind at the beginning of this story, but other than that, this novel holds well on it's own (as usual). Dirk is soothing a recent loss in his life in the Pacific Northwest when he stumbles upon the smuggling of Chinese citizens who paid (illegally of course) to leave their country in order to make a new life in America.  The unfortunate situation quickly turns into a barbaric one as the so-called smugglers only plan on drowning them one by one after they arrive.  I have wondered a tiny bit why they came all the way across the Pacific in order to do that when they could just as easily have done it a few miles off the mainland coast of China...but that is a minor complaint I assure you.<br />Dirk handles this situation the way he handles pretty much any other: He shoots first and asks questions later as he sees a problem that needs fixing asap and just does what his gut tells him to do...and QUICKLY, too.  He rescues what turns out to be an American INS agent who gets in too deep and is set for drowning.  From there the story unfolds into a devious plan by the bad guys to divert the mighty Mississippi river--without the help OR permission of the U.S. Government--all for their own nefarious purposes.  Dirk &amp; Company intercede at just the right moment to make sure that life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness is not violated for the Happy Americans in the South.<br />As usual, Cussler has delivered another thrilling adventure for Pitt and his pals...but after I finished this one, I felt that something was missing.  I can't say exactly what it is, but all I know is that of all of Cusslers amazing adventures, this one ranks near the bottom for me--which in no way means it isn't worth reading.  Just keep in mind that a poor tale by Cussler is still heads and shoulders above the best of most other authors. If you count yourself a big Dirk Pitt fan, you will most likely find 'Flood Tide' to be a journey well worth taking...and even if you aren't--it's a trip that is very much worth the price.big Dirk Pitt fan, you will most likely find 'Flood Tide' to be a journey well worth taking...and even if you aren't--it's a trip that is very much worth the price.	2001-07-03
US	47950934	R2PKBXT33UG7AY	0312861281	962877094	Joshua's Hammer (Kirk McGarvey Novels)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Get to know Kirk McGarvey...you'll be glad you did	Ever since I picked up my first Kirk McGarvey novel about 7 years ago, I have been been a HUGE fan of David Hagberg and he has done nothing but inspire that trust in novel after fantastic novel of high adventure and international intrigue.  'Joshua's Hammer' is easily one of the best McGarvey tales yet.  An absolutely riviting yarn which walks the fine line between fiction and reality.<br />First off a meeting is arranged with notorious world terrorist Osama Bin Laden.  Apparently Osama wants things to change, and he needs the help of America in order to pull it off...but the CIA sends their chief of station from Saudi Arabia and Osama only wants someone higher up to make the arrangements.  But before that happens the former Chief of Station and his entire family are killed vacationing in Orlando.  Did Osama order the hit, or was it one of his underlings?  Kirk McGarvey steps in and decides to find out by going himself to negotiate with Osama. Kirk has a GPS chip implanted on his body so the CIA will always know exactly where he is...and if something goes wrong, the President is strong-armed into ordering an attack.  Osama apparently is dying of cancer and wants to return back to Saudi Arabia, but that cannot happen unless things change, and it looks as though the beginning of a possible truce is forged between him and Kirk...but not before the GPS chip is discovered and surgically removed, and accidentally broken.  Washington now believes Kirk to be dead, and before he can get word otherwise to the powers-that-be in DC, the attack is launched on Osama's compound.<br />This is where the story goes from fast right into high gear.  Osama is spared in the aftermath, but his daughter is killed, and now the filthy American Infidels MUST pay.  Osama's bargaining chip was a small suitcase-sized nuclear weapon he purchased from a weapons depot in one of the Soviet Union's many break-off nations.  Obtained with the ultimate hope of forcing America to accept peace on Osama's terms, now is scheduled to be transported to San Francisco only to be detonated under the Golden Gate Bridge during a Special Olympics footrace...a race that stands out because the President's mentally handicapped daughter will be running in it.  The race is truly on.  Can Kirk stop them?  Will they truly detonate this 1-kiloton device?  Finding out the answers is really a great deal of the fun that this novel provides--which it has aplenty, too.  Not just good, but a GREAT example of a novel charged with excitement literally from page ONE.  Trust me, get to know Kirk McGarvey, and soon you too will understand why he is compared constantly to Jack Ryan and Dirk Pitt.  Highly Recommended.terms, now is scheduled to be transported to San Francisco only to be detonated under the Golden Gate Bridge during a Special Olympics footrace...a race that stands out because the President's mentally handicapped daughter will be running in it.  The race is truly on.  Can Kirk stop them?  Will they truly detonate this 1-kiloton device?  Finding out the answers is really a great deal of the fun that this novel provides--which it has aplenty, too.  Not just good, but a GREAT example of a novel charged with excitement literally from page ONE.  Trust me, get to know Kirk McGarvey, and soon you too will understand why he is compared constantly to Jack Ryan and Dirk Pitt.  Highly Recommended.	2001-07-02
US	47950934	RPDFAHRV0RMV5	031285496X	67902552	Desert Fire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	More like 4 1/2 stars...	I originally picked up this book after having read several previous Kirk McGarvey novels, and figured that this was just another one...well it sure does pay to read the sleeve to a book, first...but in this case, it landed me a rather exciting good-old-fashioned murder/mystery novel which had some espionage undertones.<br />Just about everything in this story is done well.  The overall story of murder, and the who, what &amp; why's only serve to make this a mystery with plenty of action.  Hagberg certainly CAN serve up a top-notch thriller whether McGarvey is one of the main characters or not.  I highly recommend this to any person who is looking for a mystery with James Bond-like flavor to it. Actually, I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys any of Mr. Hagbergs other books, or Clancy or Cussler for that matter.  Great depiction of Saddam after Iraq's embarassing defeat at the hands of us 'infidels'.  A real sense of urgency is put out to achieve this nuclear reactor so weapons grade plutonium can be manufactured...the sooner the better.  Iraq's ultimate goal of revenge cannot be far from the fiction portrayed within this story, and sorta chills me to the bone when I think about how real it just may become one day.<br />Hagberg really IS a major find for those who enjoy action/adventure in the Clancy/Cussler tradition, but with a totally original taste.  Great stuff.	2001-06-25
US	47950934	R1L8V604LM09US	0517162776	4712036	Clive Cussler: Two Novels: Flood Tide; Cyclops (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	5-Stars for Cyclops...4 1/2 for Flood Tide	I was momentarily surprised when I saw this book at my local bookstore because I thought for a split second that I was looking at a brand new Cussler novel...but the wind quickly left my sails as I realized that I had already purchased and read both of these books and enjoyed them.  But I LOVE novels that combine more than one book, and I couldn't help myself, and I picked it up right then and there and proceeded to re-read these incredible yarns.<br />I'll start with 'Cyclops'.  A much earlier Dirk Pitt story than 'Flood Tide' and in MY opinion, ranks as one of Cussler's greatest adventures.  Taking the reader from the depths of the sea to Communist Cuba, to the very surface of the moon, I can't think of ANY yarn that takes you on such a tremendous journey as this one.  Mixing adventure with a small dose of near-future science fiction, Cussler never once lets up on the entertaining action.  The Russians attempt to hijack the space shuttle...the President is informed of a private American moon colony, one that has been there for YEARS, and was NOT funded by NASA...and the race to collect the secrets learned from this amazing feat is on.  Who will win?  As they say, getting there is half the fun, especially when Dirk Pitt is involved.  Do yourself a GIGANTIC favor and read 'Cyclops' and you will be forever greatful for the hours of pure escapism entertainment.<br />'Flood Tide' is a more recent Pitt adventure, and comes on the heels of a tragedy that Dirk experiences in 'Shock Wave'.  I recommend reading 'Shock Wave' first just so you'll know WHY Dirk is in the frame of mind he starts out with in 'Flood Tide'. With that out of the way, Dirk, ever the magnet for situations that require his expertise otherwise earth-shaking consequences result, swims right into yet another hornets nest of trouble.  This time in the Pacific Northwest when he helps an Asian woman escape from forced slavery, and returns to assist the others who were not as lucky.  This unlocks a conspiracy which finds Dirk &amp; Company in the deep South helping avert a disaster which could ignite the deaths of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of American lives.  While exciting and well-written, I place 'Flood Tide' near the bottom of the Dirk Pitt adventures I have read (which are all of them at last count).  Just keep in mind that Cussler's least entertaining books are more fun than most other writers best material.  Either way, do NOT pass up an opportunity to read about Dirk Pitt...easily one of the greatest characters in adventure fiction since the invention of the written language.y which finds Dirk &amp; Company in the deep South helping avert a disaster which could ignite the deaths of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of American lives.  While exciting and well-written, I place 'Flood Tide' near the bottom of the Dirk Pitt adventures I have read (which are all of them at last count).  Just keep in mind that Cussler's least entertaining books are more fun than most other writers best material.  Either way, do NOT pass up an opportunity to read about Dirk Pitt...easily one of the greatest characters in adventure fiction since the invention of the written language.	2001-06-20
US	47950934	R2J07PHGT1AA6P	0812513584	315150810	Crossfire (McGarvey)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As exciting as it is Explosive...	Our hero, Kirk McGarvey, makes an explosive comeback in this thrilling adventure which jumps from one place on the globe to another with the speed of a Tomahawk missile.  I have long felt that McGarvey was a combination of James Bond, Jack Ryan, Dirk Pitt &amp; Indiana Jones rolled into one...and he is in TOP form in 'Crossfire'.<br />Arkady Kurshin, who Kirk thought he had 'taken care of' in his previous adventure comes back to serve up a heaping dose of revenge against the one man who has turned his life upsidedown and who very nearly killed him.  Arkady is one of those villains you almost root for--ALMOST, because he is so much fun as the bad guy, and gives Kirk such a run for his money that you are left almost breathless as you read along.<br />I also VERY much enjoyed the addition of the submarine in the plot.  WELL done, Mr. Hagberg.  I enjoyed virtually everything about this novel...in fact as I look back on it, I cannot think of ANYTHING which I did NOT enjoy.  Kirk McGarvey is easily one of the most entertaining characters I know in print today, and as long as he keeps making comebacks in Hagberg's novels, I will be lining up to purchase his books.  'Crossfire' rivals almost anything written by Clancy, and for sheer adventure/action, Kirk can keep pace with Dirk Pitt any day.  If I had to sum up this novel in one word, it'd be this: FUN.	2001-06-19
US	47950934	R3E6Q0CZBSG16F	067172519X	171368854	RAISE THE TITANIC (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the most exciting novels I have ever read...	This is the one that started it all for me.  It was the late 70's and I was failing English and my reading skills were in the toilet, b-u-u-u-t I accidentally stumbled upon 'Raise The Titanic' and quite literally my life changed--for the better.  I discovered the joy of reading, something I did not think was possible before reading Clive Cussler.  Since then, reading has become my all-time #1 hobby, and I have moved to the head of the Clive Cussler fan list.<br />First off, 'Raise The Titanic' has an irresistable plot in the Titanic.  Long before DiCaprio and Winslett made the movie the biggest film of all-time, Cussler coached me through locating the sunken ship in the Atlantic...the task of getting her ready to raise and helped me feel as though I walked her decks with his vivid descriptions.  This is also a Dirk Pitt novel, but the only one thus far where Dirk's character takes a back-seat to someone else...in this case his name is Gene Seagram, the man behind the super-sophisticated defense weapon the US Government wants to build with the help of an incredibly rare substance that unfortunately went down in a vault on the Titanic.  Intrigue piled on top of action on top of a Cold War scenario with the Russians that simply cannot be beat is certainly one of the reasons why this is one of Cusslers absolute best novels. On more than one occasion while reading this book I felt a twinge of regret that the scene where the Titanic reaches the surface of the Atlantic after so many years was only fiction.  The image that Cussler portrays of the ship finally reaching New York was written to perfection.  I found myself wishing I had been there, but after reading this amazing novel no less than 5 different times, I know that I HAD been there, more than once.<br />Fans of Dirk Pitt who have not picked this one up may be disappointed that he isn't the central character, but that in NO WAY compromises the story whatsoever.  Never fear, this is a Clive Cussler novel after all, and you just KNOW that when you crack the pages of one of his novels you are in for a thrill ride that no other author can match, and 'Raise The Titanic' is NO exception.  Easily one of my all-time favorite novels, mostly because it happens to be the one that sparked my love for reading.  Just a riviting example of adventure/fiction with a plot as good as anything else in Cusslers amazing library of thrillers.  Just plain FUN.nd you just KNOW that when you crack the pages of one of his novels you are in for a thrill ride that no other author can match, and 'Raise The Titanic' is NO exception.  Easily one of my all-time favorite novels, mostly because it happens to be the one that sparked my love for reading.  Just a riviting example of adventure/fiction with a plot as good as anything else in Cusslers amazing library of thrillers.  Just plain FUN.	2001-06-13
US	47950934	RSQ8IK109BRX7	0451408764	10102994	Piranha: Firing Point	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Quite possibly DiMercurio's Best work-to-date...	As a longtime submarine novel fan, and one of DiMercurio's biggest supporters, I am happy to endorse 'Piranha: Firing Point' as easily one of the best adventure/sub novels ever written.  DiMercurio rely's upon his previous history as a submariner in this yarn about a broken-in-two China ready to spark World War III.  Obviously America cannot stand idly by and allow this to happen, but first we have to understand that it IS happening right under our noses.<br />Japanese subs are being hijacked and only Pacino's mentor realizes this, but nobody seems to want to accept his theory and ultimately rejects his advice as ramblings of a dying man.  Rejected by everyone except Michael 'Patch' Pacino, decorated American Sub Hero.  Once this theory has been proven, the race to avert all-out war is on.<br />I found the SSNX to be DiMercurio's finest creation-under-the-seas to date and very much worthy of a novel such as this.  I applaud the storyline that while not necessarily torn from the headlines, certainly COULD become fact any day.  If you have read DiMercurio's previous submarine tales, you are in for a treat with this latest offering.  A fine sub tale told with style and a great deal of adventure.	2001-06-11
US	47950934	R3UQ9S6KZ4795H	0451406036	701947619	Phoenix Sub Zero	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More like 4-and-a-half stars...	Phoenix Sub Zero is everything that DiMercurio's past novels are: Fast paced, Fast Action and plenty of techno-wizardry.  I don't think that it takes a rocket scientist to recognize where the story leaves established facts and enters the realm of fantasy, but as long as the story keeps us rivited, WHO CARES?<br />The one thing (for me, anyway) that really set 'Phoenix Sub Zero' apart from the previous adventures in print by DiMercurio is the rescue ending.  Sure, there was never any doubt that 'Patch' was going to pull off a last ditch save of the Eastern Seaboard by doing whatever it took to keep the Hegira from firing the potentially devastating Scorpion, but it was the 'how' that kept me transfixed as the story unfolded.  After all of the sub novels that I have read, DiMercurio still reigns as the Supreme Commander of adventure sub-fiction.  And personally, as long as he can continue to write fun and exciting sub novels, I plan on being a loyal reader.	2001-06-11
US	47950934	R36XGAS6KNQ4P2	0061012491	321782752	Rising Phoenix	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great debut for Mills	Like a lot of people, I read this novel based almost entirely upon the glowing review of Tom Clancy...and I have to say I wasn't disappointed at all.  What a premise!  Poisoning the drug supply coming into America, and the most interesting part is that despite the frightening number of deaths as a result, many Americans actually APPROVE!  I found myself on more than one occasion thinking long and hard at how I might react if such a story became a reality, and as much as it bothered me, I felt myself thinking that the drug users were getting what they deserved...after seriously thinking about this course of action, I had to mentally challenge myself to NOT think positive about people who were dying in huge numbers, even IF they were abusing drugs.  A novel that made me become emotionally involved, now THAT is great storytelling.<br />If Kyle Mills first novel is any indication, we have a LOT to look forward to in the future of action/adventure/cime novels. Treat yourself to a rollercoaster ride of intrigue and one of the truly original stories to come out in print in a very long time.  I can only hope that Mr. Mills next outing is as captivating as this one.  Pick it up and clear away some time, you'll need it.	2001-06-05
US	47950934	R1UHBW7V1TL0US	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An A+ book...until the very end	I bought 'Thinner' back when I discovered that Richard Bachman was actually Stephen King under a pen name, and was pleasantly surprised at how entertaining this novel was from the very beginning.  What a stunning premise!  After an unfortunate accident killing a Gypsy, our handsome lead character has his cheek brushed lightly by another who whispers one word, 'Thinner'.  After this incident, he begins to lose weight...a LOT of weight -- and all without trying.  Now is this the new miracle diet the world has been looking for?  I doubt it.  He eats and eats and continues to drop the pounds as though he were experiencing overnight liposuction without his knowledge.<br />As he goes from overweight to supermodel-thin in a short period of time, his fears multiply on a daily basis that he will die from this curse inflicted upon him and ultimately decides to seek help from Gypsys.  This is (for me anyway) where the storyline went from a cool supernatural thriller to a hokey curse-driven<br />tale.  Don't get me wrong, I don't think I could have come up with a more believable ending, but for some reason, it just didn't add up.  I can't exactly put my finger on what exactly it was that I feel short-changed me in the storyline, but suffice it to say that despite my feelings, this really is a first rate novel of suspense and is told well.  Stephen King deserves his status as the greatest horror novelist of all-time, and while this may not be his greatest tale, it certainly was better than a lot of his other books that were hailed as great works of fiction.  Judge for yourself, I think you'll like it anyway.	2001-05-22
US	47950934	RN2KDCDXGNQ66	031225346X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ludlum's best in a looooong time!	After making it through 'The Scorpio Illusion', The Apocalypse Watch' and 'The Materese Countdown' I was afraid that the illustrious Captain of the Action/Adventure/Spy/Thriller was losing his edge.  Sure he knows how to move a novel in directions that most authors NEVER seem to master, but compared to his earlier works of literary imagination, his more recent books have suffered...but with 'The Prometheus Deception' Ludlum is back in the drivers seat with possibly one of his most entertaining books to date.<br />Unlike most of his earlier books, 'The Prometheus Deception' is quite a bit shorter, and therefore it moves...it REALLY MOVES. Ludlum gets right to the point within the first few paragraphs and wastes no time introducing major characters and placing them in mortal danger almost immediately.  Based upon the reviews of this book that I have seen, it seems that you either like it or you don't with a few folks in-between...many are upset at Ludlum using a tried-and-true formula with this story, but I don't have a problem with it because its a formula that WORKS.<br />Nick Bryson is a member of a shadow group known as The Directorate...a CIA-type group that is unknown to virtually everyone in America, including the highest members of the US Government.  But that isn't all, even the MEMBERS of The Directorate have little knowledge of all that goes on within the agency, or who even funds their covert operations.  Nick makes a pretty big mistake on one of his op's in Africa and is pulled out and forced into retirement by his mentor and Directorate operations leader.  As much as he hates it, he realizes that it HAD to be done, and accepts his appointment as Professor at a college thinking his days of placing his life in danger are over. He couldn't be more mistaken.<br />Before he knows it, he is forced to hear the most traumatic news of his entire life: Not only is The Directorate NOT a true government agency, but EVERYTHING he EVER accomplished IN the guise of his agency was hindering the REAL success of the CIA, NSA and just about every American agency working abroad...some with chilling results.  Nick also finds out that his entire life has been a well-placed lie.  His parents killed so events could place him in a position to become an agent for The Directorate. But the big question is this: WHO exactly IS The Directorate working FOR, and WHY?  What are their goals?  They seem to have the ability to anything to reach their agenda, whatever that may be, and now that Nick has been deemed 'Beyond Salvage' his old boss has put out a contract on his life and action, on top of intrigue mixed with adventure on top of more action ensues.  In short, 'The Prometheus Deception' is worthy of almost anything in Ludlum's vast list of impressive novels.  Decide for yourself, but if you are a true fan of Ludlum, at the very least, you will probably enjoy this more than his last 5-6 books--combined.  Personally I found this to be one of MY personal favorites.is agency was hindering the REAL success of the CIA, NSA and just about every American agency working abroad...some with chilling results.  Nick also finds out that his entire life has been a well-placed lie.  His parents killed so events could place him in a position to become an agent for The Directorate. But the big question is this: WHO exactly IS The Directorate working FOR, and WHY?  What are their goals?  They seem to have the ability to anything to reach their agenda, whatever that may be, and now that Nick has been deemed 'Beyond Salvage' his old boss has put out a contract on his life and action, on top of intrigue mixed with adventure on top of more action ensues.  In short, 'The Prometheus Deception' is worthy of almost anything in Ludlum's vast list of impressive novels.  Decide for yourself, but if you are a true fan of Ludlum, at the very least, you will probably enjoy this more than his last 5-6 books--combined.  Personally I found this to be one of MY personal favorites.	2001-05-21
US	47950934	RBV7T1RDPN2CS	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	5	2	3	N	N	King's Royal work of art -- an epic masterpiece	After having read many of King's books, some good, some great and some were, uh, well not exactly what I look for in entertainment.  At the very heart of King's talent is the ability to breathe life into his characters...and nowhere does he do that better than in 'The Stand'.  A friend of mine had been pestering me to read it for years before I finally got around to cracking the pages of this monster of a novel.  I guess I was just worried that I may NOT enjoy it, even though I had heard over and over again that it was his crowning achievement...well I guess I can echo that statement, now that I have actually read the entire thing.<br />It was no small undertaking, I can tell you that much.  Talk about a story with meat to it!  From the accidental release of a man-made plague that virtually illiminates mankind to the rise of an evil the likes of which our world has never seen.  Now despite the killing of billions upon billions of people, the cast of characters in this novel is actually pretty big, especially for Stephen King...but don't worry, he handles them each with loving care--and keep in mind this is a big book, so he has the time to explore these people like most books can't. Here is something to think about:  Do NOT let the size of this book keep you from enjoying the reading experience of a lifetime. Whether or not you have read King in the past and hated him makes no difference.  This book will end all too quickly, no matter how slow you read.  It is SO different from King's other novels that if you began this book without knowing who penned it, you would never be able to pick him as the author (similar with 'The Green Mile').  In short, 'The Stand' is not just good, but easily one of the grandest books written in the 20th Century, and although overall I enjoyed 'Misery' better, I rank this as a more important book, because the story will stay with you for a very long time.  This book delivers.	2001-05-17
US	47950934	R3CBOJF7PLCFUE	0451162072	639916239	Pet Sematary (Signet)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Chop the book in half and you have a great thriller...	After attempting to read this book about 15 years ago, and reading and reading I FINALLY got to the actual story about half-way through.  The entire first half of the book, while well written has virtually nothing to do with what makes this story a true King horror-story.  Sure he does a great job of setting the stage for the story that follows, but it isn't even remotely scary, and is partially full of such unneccesary details as to make the beginning of the story drag to a virtual standstill.<br />B-u-u-u-t with all that aside, when the meat of the story finally gets going, it REALLY gets going.  Stephen King himself has said that 'Pet Semetary' is in his opinion his most frightening novel, while I may not agree with that entirely, it certainly IS a story that is as creepy as you can get.  First the cat dies...and then the story of the old Indian cemetary comes out, and next thing you know, the dead cat is now alive--if not a bit odd.  All this does is open up a big can of worms that ultimately plummets this likeable all-American family into the depths of Hell itself.  The cemetary, against all laws of nature seems to have the ability to resurrect the dead...but could it also work on humans??  This is King at his freakishly best.  My ONLY complaint is the weak unnecessarily l-o-o-o-n-g beginning which takes the story nowhere...but if one can make it past that, look out, because you are going to be hearing things in the dark and seeing things out of the corner of your eyes for the next few days while you attempt to get through this fun-but-scary story.	2001-05-17
US	47950934	RYWUV32JH2BS3	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Misery will bring you Pleasure...	I am a rather indifferent fan of Stephen King.  I have found that when he is writing good, there are few writers better, but his career, like a good roller coaster has it's ups &amp; downs...some books are truly great, while others are pure drivel...but that is NOT the case with 'Misery'.  Easily one of King's most wildly entertaining novels (and one of the few that do not take place in Maine) this story takes you on the journey of just how far one twisted 'Fan' can go given the right circumstances.<br />Paul Sheldon is an author...a very successful author of a series of novels featuring the character of Misery Chastaine.  These books have launched Paul's career, but he is ready to branch out and enter another arena of writing...an area that has no room for Misery.  On his way from a Hotel in Colorado after finishing his latest manuscript, Paul has an unfortunate accident on an icy road and crashes so far down an embankment that nobody can see him...except for the one person who acts as both his savior and his worst nightmare in one: Annie.<br />On the surface, Annie seems the nicest person Paul could ever meet...oh, and she is also the WORLD'S #1 Misery Fan.  She just cannot believe her luck when she (a nurse) witnesses an accident and when she goes to help, finds out that her all-time favorite author is in the drivers seat.  She takes him home, and slowly begins to nurse him back to health.  Annie shows a little of how odd she is to Paul, but how can he argue?  He would have died if not for her saving his life.  But as this riviting story continues, the next Misery novel is released and Annie rushes to the store to buy it on the first day of its release.<br />Paul is making a slow recovery from his wounds, and Annie refuses to take him to the hospital, believing that he couldn't receive any better treatment than she could provide for him personally, and so without the ability to argue, Paul stays in bed while Annie reads the latest Misery installment...but as she nears the end she finds out that Paul has decided to end the series -- by killing off Misery.  Now keep in mind that Annie has a connection to this fictinal character that goes way beyond the strange and weird.  She takes out her anger on Paul, forcing him to start writing a NEW Misery novel which resurrects the character...B-U-U-T it must be written in a way that makes sense...at least to Annie, and her standards are pretty high indeed.  This is where the novel really takes off like a drag race on steroids.  Paul is faced with a horrible situation, not able to even get out of bed by himself, and literally forced to write a book against his will, and most difficult of all, he has Annie as his editor...an editor who rewards success with another day without the saw and torch being used to remove and cauterize certain body parts.  This is definitely King writing at his all-time best, and in my opinion, is far and away his most incredibly entertaining novel to date.  Now if you are looking to be frightened, I don't think this is the novel for you.  But if you enjoy an amazingly original story told with a full dose of adrenaline, 'Misery' is definitely the book for you.  The movie version was okay at best, but left out several explicit torture scenes that were detailed enough to take your breath away, so keep that in mind before you crack the pages of this fantastic thriller.  Highly Recommended.e nears the end she finds out that Paul has decided to end the series -- by killing off Misery.  Now keep in mind that Annie has a connection to this fictinal character that goes way beyond the strange and weird.  She takes out her anger on Paul, forcing him to start writing a NEW Misery novel which resurrects the character...B-U-U-T it must be written in a way that makes sense...at least to Annie, and her standards are pretty high indeed.  This is where the novel really takes off like a drag race on steroids.  Paul is faced with a horrible situation, not able to even get out of bed by himself, and literally forced to write a book against his will, and most difficult of all, he has Annie as his editor...an editor who rewards success with another day without the saw and torch being used to remove and cauterize certain body parts.  This is definitely King writing at his all-time best, and in my opinion, is far and away his most incredibly entertaining novel to date.  Now if you are looking to be frightened, I don't think this is the novel for you.  But if you enjoy an amazingly original story told with a full dose of adrenaline, 'Misery' is definitely the book for you.  The movie version was okay at best, but left out several explicit torture scenes that were detailed enough to take your breath away, so keep that in mind before you crack the pages of this fantastic thriller.  Highly Recommended.	2001-05-16
US	47950934	RVM3A6ZQVEA8Q	0375415807	285828010	Michael Crichton Value Collection: Andromeda Strain, Jurassic Park, and The Lost World (The Michael Crichton Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Get all 3 great books for the price of one!	It has been said that 'Jurassic Park' is one of Crichton's best books (if not THE best) and I agree.  An absolutely amazing work of original fiction which is written to near perfection.  The movie was ripped to shreds by many fans of the novel for having 1-dimensional characters, but you cannot say that about the novel.  Crichton breathes life into these people, especially Ian Malcom, easily his greatest creation (and Jeff Goldblum was perfectly cast in the movies I might add).<br />The idea of resurrecting extinct animals wasn't originated by Crichton, but he is the guy who took the idea and ran with it to the publisher first.  I just cannot think of a more compelling idea for a fictional story which bases its original theory on literal facts.  The idea of visiting living dinosaurs is facinating beyond words, but Ian Malcom said it best about the process of bringing to life animals that have been dead for millions of years when he said, &quot;You were so interested in discovering whether or not you COULD clone dinosaurs that you never stopped to think if you SHOULD.&quot;  Quite possibly one of the most entertaining adventure/thrillers ever published.<br />'The Lost World' in many ways was set up to fail by many even before they read it.  How do you top 'Jurassic Park'?  Since the total originality of the first book is gone, that takes away a little of the enjoyment, but I believe that Crichton sacrificed nothing with this sequel.  Staying true to his original story he wrote a sequel to his book rather than the movie version, making this that much more compelling and entertaining.  Never for a minute think that 'The Lost World' isn't as fun in almost every way as the original, because it IS.  It is also SO different than the very poor movie that shared the same name.  Actually they only shared about 5-10% of the same storyline, enough of a difference to wonder why they didn't come out with a novelized version of the movie.  While not his best novel, I found it as exciting as the original and chock full of everything that makes a thriller worthwhile to read in the first place.<br />I had heard for years that 'The Andromeda Strain' was Crichtons best novel...and this is one area where I disagree. Although being a fun and very good book, it is easy to see how far he has come as an author when you read it.  It is very possible that this book inspired a rash of movies which imitated the main plotline of a disease or alien being brought back to earth unknowingly, but one of Crichtons best novels?  I don't think so.  Still it IS a must read for every fan.exciting as the original and chock full of everything that makes a thriller worthwhile to read in the first place.<br />I had heard for years that 'The Andromeda Strain' was Crichtons best novel...and this is one area where I disagree. Although being a fun and very good book, it is easy to see how far he has come as an author when you read it.  It is very possible that this book inspired a rash of movies which imitated the main plotline of a disease or alien being brought back to earth unknowingly, but one of Crichtons best novels?  I don't think so.  Still it IS a must read for every fan.	2001-05-08
US	47950934	R2T62RYJXGNTEM	0671028545	759592880	Quicksilver	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE Next Generation Techno-Thriller HAS Arrived!	After Clancy invented the techno-thriller with the debut of 'The Hunt For Red October' in the 80's, I was wondering if/when someone would take it to the next level...well Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens' has done for the techno-thriller what they did with Star Trek books: they re-wrote the textbook on HOW it SHOULD be written.<br />Solid storytelling that isn't just exciting, but thought-provoking at the same time...characters you can identify with, and a bad guy who is as cool as they come.  The idea of taking over The Pentagon is definitely something that in reality IS probably impossible to pull off, but these guys make it sound like not only COULD it happen, but it just MIGHT one day... Moving from scene to scene with seamless ease and leaving you guessing what is gonna happen next and the action sequences are as choreographed as a Jackie Chan fight scene...right down to the smallest of details.  Virtually nothing is overlooked in this absolute riviting thriller -- in fact the only thing that struck me as I finished this was WHEN are they going to come out with ANOTHER book?  They have entered this arena as virtual unknowns, but they have proven themselves as worthy in the literary world of action as anyone...and clearly superior to MOST of what is peddled these days as good fiction.  Not just a good book...not just fun...but exceptionally so.  Highly Recommended.	2001-05-03
US	47950934	R3S0WKTDML0E59	0553579835	306823404	The Matarese Countdown	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Far from his best--but not his worst, either...	I have been a Ludlum fan ever since my older brother informed me that 'The Bourne Identity' was easily one of the best thrillers ever written...well I loved that book, but I enjoyed 'The Materese Circle' even MORE.  I nearly fainted with surprise when I saw 'The Materese Countdown' on the bookshelf...not knowing at all that a sequel was even in the works.  B-u-u-u-t after 'The Scorpio Illusion' I was becoming a bit skeptical at Ludlums ability to write world-class thrillers...however I picked it up anyway and then it sat on my shelf for quite some time.  After having read the reviews here periodically I put off reading it even longer...but once again it goes to show you how each person is unique and has VERY different views of the same thing.<br />I happened to have enjoyed this 2nd outing into the world of the Materese.  Nowhere did I see the discrepancies in Ludlum's writing style that many are saying that they recognized...and I am not a novice Ludlum reader, either.  I've been reading all of his books (and I stress ALL) since the late 70's.  Now I WILL admit that 'Countdown' was far from his best thriller, however it was a great deal better than 'The Scorpio Illusion' which was okay, but seemed like the same old story re-packaged.  It was great to re-visit the lives of Beowolf Agate and Toni...and fondly remember how the bad guy from the Cold War (Taleniekov) became one of his greatest characters.  No, this isn't the best of Ludlum's books, but he has several which are far worse than this one, too.  Judge for yourself.  I can't recall the last time I read so many reviews that opposed each other so much.  It seemed that most people either loved it or hated it.  I was somewhat in between, with a lean more towards the 'loved it' side.  My personal opinion is that after writing so many novels about spying for so long, it really IS difficult to write something entirely new and fresh...and since the Cold War ended, people no longer want to read about 'Them Vs Us' anymore...but as long as I can find a good spy novel, I know that I'll be buying them and re-living the Cold War days for many years to come...unfortunately since the recent death of Mr. Ludlum, we won't get that great opportunity from him.  A great literary loss if you ask me.  Goodbye Robert Ludlum.  You WILL be missed.ymore...but as long as I can find a good spy novel, I know that I'll be buying them and re-living the Cold War days for many years to come...unfortunately since the recent death of Mr. Ludlum, we won't get that great opportunity from him.  A great literary loss if you ask me.  Goodbye Robert Ludlum.  You WILL be missed.	2001-04-30
US	47950934	RFL4P81T2WACE	0671021265	519262866	Preserver (Star Trek)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Shatner gives us Kirks finest adventure with Preserver...	I firmly believe that Star Trek V The Final Frontier to be the worst of the Trek movies, and guess what?  It was written BY William Shatner.  Based upon that fact, I very nearly missed out on reading his Trek books simply because if that was the best he could pull off on screen, than I had little hope of what he could accomplish in book-form.  Well I am happy to say that Shatners Trek books are some of the better books you can find available.  I very much enjoyed 'The Ashes of Eden' and 'The Return'...  'Avenger' started him on a pathway of 'going nowhere fast'.  He improved with 'Spectre' but I felt that 'Dark Victory' was almost poor by comparison...but I figured I'd finish the 'Mirror Universe Saga' no matter what, and I am happy to say that I am most pleased with my decision.<br />'Preserver' is easily Shatner's most complex storyline almost making it several novels in one.  It switches from plotlines originally started on Kirk's first 5-year mission, to Voyager, Deep Space-9 and of course Next Generation all in the blink of an eye...if you are not paying close attention, TRUST me, it is very easy to get lost.  Shatner even uses a bit of Isaac Asimov in this story with the introduction of a couple of ingenious Psychohistorians who have predicted that the end of the Universe is only days away...and most likely caused by one man, who is also TWO men--otherwise known as Kirk and his Mirror Universe counterpart, Tiberius.  I DO agree with one other reviewer that the change of heart that the natural-born-butcher Tiberius goes through seems totally out of character with the way he has been portrayed over the course of the Mirror Universe Saga...but other than that, this book is the capstone to a series that starts off good, starts to become stale, but ends with a bang--no, make that a low-yield nuclear blast.  Simply put a tremendously entertaining Trek novel (you can definitely see the hands of Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens' in this story) that moves with the speed of Trans Warp Drive.  Highly Recommended.speed of Trans Warp Drive.  Highly Recommended.	2001-04-26
US	47950934	R2D90YLEZB1HLA	0553277405	280332330	Night Probe!	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Another literary homerun for Cussler...	I became a hopelessly addicted Cussler fan after reading the incredible 'Raise The Titanic' in '79 (GEEZ! Has it been THAT long ago??) and ever since then, looking forward to a new Dirk Pitt novel is kinda like a hobby of mine...so you can imagine when 'Night Probe' came out what a thrill it was for me to buy and read it as quickly as possible.  As usual, I wasn't disappointed one tiny bit.  Another fantastic example of 'what if' by the Emperor of Action.<br />What IF the US and England negotiated a treaty that in essence sold Canada to the Yankees...?  Cussler introduces this exact situation with the opening pages of this adventure taking place on a train and a luxury ship.  Both meet untimely ends, but not necessarily the way you are led to believe.  Years later a reference to these documents is uncovered and soon after the race is on to find them by two countries, one bent on destroying them, the other for the purpose of collecting them intact.  This is easily one of Cusslers most political novels, moving from the inner workings of the Prime Minister of Canada to the Oval Office and many points in between.  If you remember the character of Foss Gly in 'Cyclops', you will be happy to find out that he makes his first appearance here in 'Night Probe', and as you can imagine, he is at his worst.<br />'Night Probe' definitely is one of Cusslers most intricately plotted novels, and what it may lack in action compared with some of his other stories, it more than makes up for in plot development and storyline details.  Simply a great example of Cussler at his literary best.  A fantastic book and worthy of any other Pitt adventure out there.  Do yourself a supreme favor and get to know Dirk Pitt, and if you haven't done it yet, do it HERE.  You will be most happy you did.  Highly Recommended.	2001-04-24
US	47950934	RKHLV7Z3U3E3H	0671880314	156284675	Schindler's List	Books	5	3	6	N	N	One of the most important novels I have ever read	Like many, I didn't even know about Oskar Schindler's amazing story until I saw the movie.  I am also a voracious reader and when I find a novel of a movie I enjoyed I usually grab it and compare the differences.  While Spielberg is to be commended on his incredible talent at filmmaking, there was much of this story that wasn't brought to the screen, and maybe couldn't have been, I'm not sure.  This was such a powerful story that it needed to be told.  Normally when we think of how truly evil our world has been, we have to travel much farther back than just the 2nd World War, but not in this case.<br />Oskar Schindler, risking his life and the lives of those he loved, made what he felt was the morally right choice by saving a few Jews while the Nazi's used his business to further the War effort for Germany.  Rarely can we find someone who so selflessly risked their life in such a way to save a number of people his own government had marked for extinction.  Oskar recognized what the Nazi's refused to acknowledge, that ALL human life is precious, regardless of race or color of skin.  How much farther would we all be if everyone held fast to what Oskar risked his life to hold true?	2001-04-24
US	47950934	R2M21SQZGEAGEJ	0553569570	505552332	The Apocalypse Watch	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Sappy dialogue aside, it could be better, but still okay...	It seems to me that Robert Ludlum who, during the 70's and 80's could do absolutely NO wrong when it came to writing the best spy novels EVER, is still living IN the 70's...as far as writing goes.  Let's face it, NONE of Ludlum's novels are gonna win any awards based on the dialogue of his characters...b-u-u-u-t if you are searching for the guy who could propel a novel based upon sheer narrative talent alone, Ludlum would win hands down.<br />As I read 'The Apocalypse Watch' I kept getting the distinct impression--at first--that this was a direct sequel to the wonderful 'Holcroft Covenant'...but that isn't quite the case. Then after reading a bit further, I felt that this was a quasi-re-write of 'Covenant' instead...but again, that isn't quite the case, either.  As far as plot goes, it wasn't exactly Ludlum's most original, but I have to say, it certainly moved with the usual pace of his average thrillers.  As I read this book, I felt somewhat saddened that truly one of the great Adventure/Thriller authors of all-time had begun to reach that point where his edge, his ability to be fresh has started to come to an end.  What seems to have started with 'The Scorpio Illusion' has now continued with 'The Apocalypse Watch' and although I have high hopes for his future novels, it DOES appear that the 'absolute master of the superthriller' has seen the decline of his ability to dominate the audience he himself helped to create.  But even so, I still enjoyed this book more than a LOT of other novels released in the past 5 years or so that were hailed as genius literary works of art.  In my opinion, Ludlum just cannot escape his earlier novels, and his faithful reading audience has a very difficult time indeed reading his books without comparing them to his other tremendously entertaining novels.  If we could do that, his novels (including his more recent ones) would stand up rather well.	2001-04-18
US	47950934	R26XWDQWF0I17Z	0553262564	29300416	The Aquitaine Progression: A Novel	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Quite literally this is a literary Masterpiece	Not just good, but absolutely fantastic!  I have to admit that I bought this book two days after it was released back in the early 80's...and attempted to read it probably 20 times, only to give up after about 50 pages or so.  I just wasn't 'hooked' on the plot by that point...but after being urged to plod further on for the 100th time by friends who HAD finished the book, well I decided to give it a go yet again.  I can honestly say that when the plot really begins to thicken, it hardens to the consistency of Titanium, and quickly, too!  I really cheated myself all of these years by giving up way too soon on this novel.<br />Always sensing what could happen before it ever does, Ludlum sees the NOW popular 'New World Order' Global Conspiracy in a way that makes it seem plausible and VERY frightening indeed. Joel Converse is thrust into the thick of things totally against his will, and it seems solving this monumentally huge problem isn't so much a humanitarian thing to do, as doing so quite literally will keep him alive.<br />For those of you who have given up on 'The Aquitaine Progression' as I have done, I urge you to NOT GIVE UP.  You are missing out on easily one of Ludlum's best novels if you pass this one by. Sure its a little dated...but look beyond that and you will find the events portrayed in this book to be absolutely horrifying. The story takes some time to get going, but like I said, once it does, grab on and hold on tight 'cuz it's gonna be a bumpy and thrilling ride.  All Ludlum fans NEED to read this one, you will be forever glad you did, I know I am...FINALLY.	2001-04-13
US	47950934	RD2XKKZPEL4S7	0553278002	11068773	The Icarus Agenda	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Almost, but not quite a 5-Star book...	In his prime, absolutely nobody could touch Ludlum's sheer plotting brilliance when it came to the international thriller, NOBODY.  'The Icarus Agenda' is a great example of his style, and the ONLY thing that kept this book from 5-stars was that it slightly dragged in a couple areas...but remember, Ludlum at his worst is still better than most authors at their BEST.<br />As another reviewer mentioned, this book was more like 3 books-in-one, and I agree.  First we have Evan Kendrick making a daring rescue.  Next we have his being identified as the person responsible -- which is exactly what he DIDN'T want.  And finally we have the real meat of the story: the ultimate action of who is REALLY responsible for the whole thing, and how Evan goes about handling the situation and solving the problem at the same time.  Action on top of suspense on top of even more action. Aside from the small tedious slow writing in the middle, this book has about as much action as a novel can possibly have.  If you are searching for a James Bond meets Die Hard meets True Lies type book, trust me, 'The Icarus Agenda' most definitely fills the bill.  I have heard rumors for years how Ludlum was going to try and turn Evan Kendrick into a series similar to Jason Bourne, but unfortunately, he passed away, and that remains one of the greatest losses in the literary world in a very long time.  He will be sorely missed.	2001-04-12
US	47950934	R1N93SZSSE9KTZ	0801077613	924624249	Mormons Answered Verse by Verse	Books	2	10	23	N	N	NOT the best effort I have read...	I see what the authors attempted to accomplish with this book, but what constantly amazes me about those who feel it necessary to 'witness' to Mormons, is that they apparently need to read these books in order to, 'know what to say' to the LDS.  Are the LDS people that frightening that people are too afraid to actually talk with them?  Sure, I understand those who act very defensively regarding their faith, and some may even act almost violent in how they defend their beliefs, but this in no way represents what the LDS Church actually believes.  It is really simple, you wanna know what they believe?  Why not ask one?  If they don't have all the answers you are looking for, it wouldn't be difficult to find one who does.  I share the thoughts of another reviewer who mentioned how the authors of this book used Biblical scriptures that THEY think an LDS person might choose to describe or illustrate their beliefs, but it isn't necessarily what most (if any) would actually do.  Again, I understand where the authors were going with this, but feel they came up short.	2001-04-11
US	47950934	RF79OG056HJ6F	0425143325	685045441	Without Remorse (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Different -- but in this case, different is GOOD	The first thing you notice about 'Without Remorse' is that it is NOT a Jack Ryan adventure, in fact he is nowhere to be found within the many pages of this book.  Clancy took a gamble on this knowing it would ultimately turn off some of his die hard Ryan fans, but if you pass this one up, you are losing out on quite a literary adventure.  Only John Clark comes close to being as well developed as Ryan...but we have no idea about how he came to be who he is today, and more important, the WHY?  'Without Remorse' tells John's tale, which is far from a pretty one.<br />John's tale begins during the Vietnam War and moves from one continent to another and show's us what John is made of, and why. He never set out to be John Clark (not his real name), in fact the events which transpire and ultimately force John to do the unthinkable are horrific indeed, but it makes you wonder what you would do given the same circumstances...  I wouldn't go so far as to say I would actually do the same, but would I entertain the thought?  Yeah, sure.  What limits do we have as humans?  We get to find out Clarks here in a decidedly different story than what we have come to expect from Clancy, and easily one of the better novels he has produced.  I also very much enjoyed 'Rainbow Six' which seemed to be panned by many, but hey, I'm a BIG John Clark fan...  'Without Remorse' is a worthy addition to Clancy's great collection of works, and very worthwhile to buy and read.	2001-04-10
US	47950934	R3VD7K0FEJY3YI	0399139354	514389784	Three Complete Novels: Patriot Games, Clear & Present Danger, Sum of All Fears	Books	5	8	8	N	N	3-of Clancy's best, BAR NONE, a truly worthwhile buy	For sentimental reasons only, I view 'Hunt For Red October' as Clancy's best book, but these 3 cannot be far behind, especially 'Clear &amp; Present Danger' and 'The Sum Of All Fears'.  Absolutely riviting novels that prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that Clancy truly has his finger squarely on the pulse of what is going on in the world -- or what COULD go on.<br />'Patriot Games' is a phenomenal story of revenge from an IRA Terrorist who's plot to assassinate Charles &amp; Di is thwarted by Jack Ryan, who is completely unaware of the horrific consequences of his actions.  GREAT read.<br />'Clear &amp; Present Danger' is a VERY complicated story of the war on drugs and a few people in high places making some pretty rash decisions that creates a completely incredible situation and Clancy ties it all together in one of his all-time best stories. Highly recommended.<br />'The Sum Of All Fears' is another Clancy rocket-of-a-novel with many plots and sub-plots, all of which are tied neatly together in the end revolving around a few middle-eastern bad guys who get their dirty fingers on an actual Israeli atomic bomb, converting it into a thermo-nuclear device, and their plans of actually using it on American soil.  A true Clancy masterpiece.<br />All three of these books are worth buying, but if you can manage to grab this particular book with ALL of them, do NOT hesitate, just DO IT!  Any Clancy fan worth his/her salt cannot call their collection complete without this.  Just hours and hours of absolute thrilling reading.	2001-04-10
US	47950934	R2G9XNG4O87IAV	0425116840	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Jack Ryan)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Cardinal is a Keeper	I read 'Hunt For Red October' many many years ago, and have since devoured all of Clancy's novels (except for those truly terrible 'Op Center' &amp; 'Net Force' rip-off's that are not written BY Clancy) but for some reason, I passed over 'Cardinal' and I cannot figure out why.  I always knew I'd get around to it sooner or later, and when I did, I felt as though I had cheated myself.<br />While 'Cardinal' certainly is a great read, I wouldn't say it is chock full of the action that I have read in many of the other reviews of this book.  In fact although nowhere near as thick as some of Clancy's other marathon novels, there is plenty here that could have been omitted without compromising the story at all.  With all that said, it still packs a punch and is as fresh today (other than the Soviet Union being dead and gone and all) as it was when it first came out.  If you are in search of a superior spy vs. spy novel about the cold war, try vintage Ludlum, but Clancy's spy writing is in a different league altogether because he has created an entirely new genre with the 'Techno-Thriller'.  Oh, and 'Cardinal' get's high marks entirely because it is the book which spawned the character of John Clark. Good, but not necessarily Clancy's greatest (which still means it is way above average).	2001-04-10
US	47950934	R3255OZ6E78M9P	0451181468	281774869	Praying for Sleep	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Praying for more details...	Jeffery Deaver seems to have showed up out of nowhere to become one of the best thriller authors in the biz...and I believe that 'Praying For Sleep' was the first time I had ever heard of him... I came close to buying this book on several occasions, but somehow always managed to pass it by in favor of something else.  It wasn't until I got to know Lincoln Rhyme that I took a chance and picked up some of his earlier books.  While good, you can definitely see the growth as a sheer genius at plotting that Mr. Deaver has pulled off in his more recent novels.  My best recommendation for this book is to read it and NOT to judge it based upon some of his more recent novels and you are certain to have a fun time.	2001-04-10
US	47950934	RMYBQKVO3BW9F	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	4	0	0	N	N	While not his best book, this is still an exciting read...	I contend that although not as good as his more recent novels, 'A Maiden's Grave' is still a very fun book to experience.  With Deaver, you don't just read him, you 'experience' his writing because he has the uncanny ability to transport your thoughts and feelings to wherever it is he wants you to go.  In this novel, he takes you to the scene of a kidnapping of a bus of girls.<br />Now whether or not Deaver has done his research on kidnapping negotiating or not, I have NO idea...I CAN tell you it sure seems as though he has.  At first glance, it seems that one could not manage to pull and entire novel out of the situation this novel presents you with, but not only does he do it, he gives you situations you would have otherwise never have thought about.  It was obvious from the get-go that Mr. Deaver has put a lot of thought into this story, and the outcome is much more than just a kidnapping and just a negotiation to solve the situation.  'A Maiden's Grave' is not Deavers best thriller, but if you enjoy fast moving stories with more meat than your average porterhouse steak, this book ought to satisfy your hunger.	2001-04-10
US	47950934	RJ0FMJ5KVX7TL	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It ain't a Lincoln Rhyme novel, but it's high on forensics!	After reading 'The Coffin Dancer' and realizing that I had finished easily one of the best murder/mystery/forensic novels of all-time, I figured that I had really been missing out all of these years walking past the Jeffery Deaver novels on the shelfs at the bookstores...when I saw 'The Devil's Teardrop' I figured that I would be in for the same intellectual literary roller coaster that I had just experienced, but unfortunately that wasn't the case.  As good as Mr. Deaver is at giving you the most trivial fragment of forensic information in order to solve a murder or prevent another one, I just couldn't get into the endless information we learned about paper and ink.  And when I say endless, I mean you learn more in this book than most folks could learn on the topic in a lifetime.  In my opinion, it was just too much.  Now I find myself feeling odd by thinking this way because I normally LOVE the forensic side of a murder/mystery.  The scientific explantion of evidence that Deaver used in 'The Coffin Dancer' was electrifying, but it was constantly changing from one crime scene to the next, but with this novel, it pretty much stayed the same (with some additions along the way).  On this small complaint alone I rated this only 4 stars.  Other than that, this is a tour-de-force of a mystery based on a terrifying topic of what could go wrong on the first day of the new century...I also enjoyed the characterization of The Digger, although at times the credibility of this person seemed thin to say the least.<br />All in all, I enjoyed 'The Devil's Teardrop' a lot, however it wasn't up to the true genius of the Lincoln Rhyme novels and how absolutely amazing it is to me that Deaver has managed to turn a quadraplegic into a 1st rate crime solver and a literary hero to boot.  Deaver has a fast moving plot that keeps you interested to the conclusion, while not as surprising as some of his other books, was satisfying anyway.  I guess my problem was NOT being able to judge this book without comparing it to another one of his books...I guess if I didn't do that, it was a really good read.is book without comparing it to another one of his books...I guess if I didn't do that, it was a really good read.	2001-04-06
US	47950934	R1UXBTY94GYGEH	0812571479	339023614	Fragments	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I disagree with the bad reviews...this is a FUN BOOK!	The X-Files meets Rainman is how the book is described on the back, and that pretty much nails this storyline to a 'T'.  A truly original story which centers around the idea of taking the ultra-genius talents that certain savants possess (incredible memory, solving puzzles, knowing calendar dates from centuries in the past and into the future etc.) and combining them to create an artificial intelligence that can think on different planes than an average human can...but it is more than that, much more.  From the opening scenes of 'Fragments' you read about a father and daughter with a most unusual relationship and the unique way the father decides to deal with it.  Now at first I wondered what it all had to do with the savants, but never fear, Mr. David ties the loose ends together in a very clever way that turns it from an above-average para-normal story to a murder-mystery with a taste of the X-Files thrown in for good measure.<br />One of the best things about 'Fragments' was the character of Ralph.  You just cannot help but like this mentally challenged goliath with a taste for Slurpees and his perpetually happy moods.  He adds a separate dimension to the storyline and his place in the story becomes very interesting towards the end.  Personally I enjoyed how the mystery deepened when the murders began and how they were eerily similar to ones that had occurred years ago in the same town...a serial murderer who was never caught, too.  Could the latest killings be done by the same person?  Finding out is a journey that is both fun &amp; rewarding. If you are searching for a completely unique fun story with supernatural undertones, I submit that 'Fragments' is the book you have been looking for.  Oh, and for those who came to love Ralph, he makes a return appearance in Mr. David's 3rd book, 'Ship of the Damned' (another winner).  Good stuff from an original author.	2001-04-05
US	47950934	R1RQAHCBCLYRIE	067178546X	814935595	Blue Gold : A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	5	1	1	N	N	5-GOLD Stars for Kurt Austin's 2nd Adventure	A Cussler adventure is ALWAYS welcome to me, whether it features Dirk Pitt or now, Kurt Austin...and Cussler has EARNED that opinion from me by finding a co-writer in Paul Kemprecos who knows how he thinks, and has mastered Cussler's trademark 'style' of adventure writing to a 'T'.  When I first saw 'Serpent' I was skeptical to say the least, but after a couple of pages, it was apparent that the 'action-magic' was definitely on overdrive and it made for an amazingly fun story virtually on par with almost any of Pitt's exploits.  Now comes Austin's 2nd literary adventure, and I am happy to say that everything which made 'Serpent' fun and entirely worth reading is found in the pages of 'Blue Gold'.  From the jungles of the Amazon to an underwater explosion off the coast of Mexico to a very tall woman who has her sights set on controlling the virtual bulk of the world's drinking water, thus placing most of  the world at her mercy.<br />'Blue Gold' has something rare for a Cussler story: the bad guy is a GIRL.  But don't let that fool you into thinking she is all bark and no bite...nope.  She packs a whallup, that's for sure. Between Kurt and his Giordino-sidekick/clone, Joe Zavala, they manage to become central figures to the problems facing Mother Earth, and due to their quick thinking and all around knack for being in the right place at the right time, they end up saving us all without us none the wiser.  Some have been faulting Cussler and Kemprecos for using a tried-and-true formula that has paid off in multiple back-to-back bestsellers over the years, but I for one welcome it all and look forward to Kurt &amp; Joe's next adventure eagerly.  Face it, if you can manage to substitute Dirk Pitt for Kurt Austin and Al for Joe as you read 'Blue Gold' you would be hard pressed to tell the difference, and with that in mind, just remember: if you are a fan of Pitt, do yourself a favor and get to know the other side of the NUMA coin, and soon you too will be singing the praises of Kurt Austin.  A fine thrill-a-minute-seat-of-your-pants story that deserves to become every bit as popular as Dirk's exploits.raises of Kurt Austin.  A fine thrill-a-minute-seat-of-your-pants story that deserves to become every bit as popular as Dirk's exploits.	2001-03-12
US	47950934	R2O2VLZTTM8YDR	1930782128	228331237	Red Moon	Books	5	18	18	N	N	EASILY one of the best novels I have ever read...	It was quite by accident that I came across 'Red Moon', but if this is what accidents are supposed to be like, I would like to experience MORE of them.  David Michaels contacted me personally about his novel, and before long, I was cracking open a copy of 'Red Moon' anxious to see if it was indeed as good as all of the reviews here on amazon 'claimed' it was.  To be honest, words escape me how to describe how truly magnificent this book really is.  I know that David is shopping the book around to find just the right place to distribute it nationally, and to be honest, after having read this book, I would think any company with an ounce of brains would be literally fighting over the opportunity to release this incredibly compelling story.<br />Just 3 days before Apollo 11 launched, the Soviet Union also launched Luna 15, a so-called unmanned robotic ship that was to collect lunar soil samples and bring it back...in 'Red Moon' we are faced with the fictional account of a world class 'what if' question: What IF Luna 15 was actually a manned ship on a 1-way trip to the moon?  Yes, NOT coming back.  Grigor Belinsky is the man who is blackmailed into making this trip, and throughout this amazing story, you get to know Belinsky, you get to really appreciate what kind of person he is, and most importantly, this story gets you to thinking, 'Is this fiction, or did it REALLY happen?'  I can't tell you how many times my mind ran across that question.<br />'Red Moon' gives you several points-of-view, taking you from the surface of the moon in 2019 and the discovery of Luna 15, to the incredibly shocking realization that it was a manned ship... to 1968 when the Space Race was not just for national pride, but personal and selfish advancement as well...you also get to go inside the Russia of the future and join the investigation into the failed Russian lunar program and find out whether or not this wreckage on the moon is real, or an elaborate fabrication by the Soviet era government to fool the world into believing they landed first...  I simply CANNOT recommend this book highly enough.  If you have EVER read any kind of alternate history novel, 'Red Moon' will totally RE-DEFINE how you look at them, and now sets the standard as to HOW they SHOULD be written.<br />My one and only yardstick for judging how good a novel is, well is simple:  If it is the last thing on my mind when I go to bed and the first thing on my mind when I wake up...now THAT is a good book.  I believe that 'Red Moon' will be on my mind for many months to come.  I give this book the HIGHEST possible RECOMMENDATION of ANY book I have reviewed here on amazon and like I said, easily this is one of the best books I have ever read.  Do yourself an immeasurable favor and BUY THIS BOOK.  Hop aboard, and enjoy the ride.  You will wish it would never end, and unfortunately, it ended all too soon.  Kudos to David Michaels, you are a true and gifted storyteller.nment to fool the world into believing they landed first...  I simply CANNOT recommend this book highly enough.  If you have EVER read any kind of alternate history novel, 'Red Moon' will totally RE-DEFINE how you look at them, and now sets the standard as to HOW they SHOULD be written.<br />My one and only yardstick for judging how good a novel is, well is simple:  If it is the last thing on my mind when I go to bed and the first thing on my mind when I wake up...now THAT is a good book.  I believe that 'Red Moon' will be on my mind for many months to come.  I give this book the HIGHEST possible RECOMMENDATION of ANY book I have reviewed here on amazon and like I said, easily this is one of the best books I have ever read.  Do yourself an immeasurable favor and BUY THIS BOOK.  Hop aboard, and enjoy the ride.  You will wish it would never end, and unfortunately, it ended all too soon.  Kudos to David Michaels, you are a true and gifted storyteller.	2001-03-07
US	47950934	R3OLD4TNXKHGM2	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	For pure action...Ice Station reigns supreme...	I echo the thoughts of others who have stated plain and simple that this novel is full of action on top of suspense on top of explosions and add an extra dash of action again.  It quite literally never ceases after it starts.  Think of the most intense moments from ALL the James Bond and Die Hard movies and then multiply that exponentially and you get the idea.<br />Also, those who dislike this book seem to be totally missing the point of the story.  It isn't meant to be taken seriously...but more likely it was meant to give you hours of pure fun, and what is wrong with that?  I certainly can't fault Mr. Reilly for that, mostly because I actually enjoyed this exceptionally fun tale very much.  For a first novel, this really bodes well for his upcoming stories, which I for one will DEFINITELY be buying and reading.<br />The story is certainly one of thrilling consequences:  Could an honest-to-goodness UFO have been found embedded in ice for a millennia?  What the bigger question in this action-after-action novel is more like: Now that we've found something that COULD be alien...how are we gonna stay alive?  Finding the answer is as fun as just about anything you are likely to read this year.  Literature this AIN'T...but fun it IS.  Check it out and without having any pre-conceived notions about what an action/adventure novel is supposed to be, I think you are gonna have a fun ride ahead of you.	2001-03-05
US	47950934	R2B6E645HVE98J	0812508483	22194913	Assassin (Kirk McGarvey Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Action + Thrills + Adrenaline = A GREAT READ	Mr. Hagberg is without-a-doubt one of the finer action authors working today, and Kirk is right up there with Dirk Pitt, James Bond, Phillip Mercer, Kurt Austin and other literary He Men...only the big difference between those guys and Kirk is simple: He almost despises who he is and what he has become, yet he understands his duty and accepts responsibility when he has to.  His experiences haven't been made any easier by the way he has been treated as a scapegoat by the US Government, either...all of these things factor into his decision to accept a job to assassinate the 'Tarantula', a Russian who is poised to not only win in the popular election, but who promises a whole new 'Cold War' with the Western world, one which he intends to win at ALL COSTS.<br />But as with most charges given him by the Government, part-way into it, the rules change and suddenly the target knows what Kirk is planning, and does a little 'planning' of his own.  This poor guy just cannot catch a break!  But thank heavens Mr. Hagberg knows just how to treat the situation with just the right amount of thrills and chills to make it all worth reading.  Is this Kirks best adventure to date?  Not really.  But is IS a fun read.  And to those readers who just cannot get over any and all of the 'supposed' weapons flaws, get over it. It is only a problem to those who cannot except a fictional story to begin with.  JUST ENJOY THE STORY.  If you want one of Kirks best stories, make sure you find 'White House' and soon.	2001-02-28
US	47950934	R3W0NTOVQZ50DD	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	TRUE Cussler fans can rejoice with Atlantis Found!	You would be hard-pressed to find a bigger Cussler fan than me, and I've been there since I first picked up 'Raise The Titanic' in the late 70's and since then Dirk has become somewhat of a personal friend to me (or so I would like to think) and I have really got to know him well over the years--and the same goes for Al, Rudy and Admiral Sandecker...I ALWAYS look forward to something written by Cussler, whether it be his new series with Kurt Austin (which I feel are actually pretty good books so far) or his non-fiction stories behind Dirk or Clive's own heroic adventures, if it has Clive Cussler on the cover, I am GOING to BUY it.<br />Cussler simply does not write a bad story.  Some are better and more thrilling than others, but 'Atlantis Found' is easily one of the better Dirk Pitt adventures.  I find it funny how people attack Clive's research into his novels, as if they could believe certain parts of his stories, but other parts were just impossible to fathom...it reminds me of a friend of mine who complained about certain portions of Star Wars saying, 'That could never happen!' As if the rest was entirely 100% accurate! C'mon!  Clive is THE KING of ALL Action in print, and 'Atlantis Found' is a perfect example of exactly why.  This is a complex story that spans 10 Millennia--LITERALLY.  Could it be that the lost continent of Atlantis actually existed?  What does the Nazi's have to do with Antarctica?  Is it possible that a comet will actually decimate the earth as predicted by an ancient civilization more advanced than any in modern history...?  All of these questions are raised in 'Atlantis Found' and all are answered with an amazing dose of thrilling edge-of-your-seat adventure piled on top of conspiracy on top of more action.  Simply put, if you read Cussler for sheer thrill, pace and excitement, you know just why us die-hard readers lap up his books like an addictive drug, we crave something FUN and Clive serves it up hot and fresh each and every time.  I have NEVER been disappointed in one of his novels yet, mostly because I don't look for something that isn't there.  I KNOW what to expect when I begin one of these novels, and that is exactly what I get.  It's like seeing a James Bond movie--you KNOW pretty much what to expect--and THAT is the reason why you keep coming back for more.  I have said it before, and I'll say it again: 'Long Live Clive'.  'Atlantis Found' is by NO MEANS a literary masterpiece, but it IS a fun ride.  Climb aboard and enjoy the cruise.have NEVER been disappointed in one of his novels yet, mostly because I don't look for something that isn't there.  I KNOW what to expect when I begin one of these novels, and that is exactly what I get.  It's like seeing a James Bond movie--you KNOW pretty much what to expect--and THAT is the reason why you keep coming back for more.  I have said it before, and I'll say it again: 'Long Live Clive'.  'Atlantis Found' is by NO MEANS a literary masterpiece, but it IS a fun ride.  Climb aboard and enjoy the cruise.	2001-02-21
US	47950934	RH239OT7XSXG	0671521101	300599240	Sahara	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I never knew a trip to the Sahara would be so much fun...	'Sahara' was the first Cussler book that I did not purchase in hardback...I was strapped for cash and it seemed every penny I had was promised to someone else, so I agonized for an ENTIRE YEAR before I could purchase it in paperback.  Now for the die-hard Cussler fans, you KNOW what sheer torture that was for me, especially since it was such a fantastic story!  I am happy to say that the wait (albeit excruciating) WAS WORTH IT!<br />Cussler is never better in his storytelling than when he incorporates an historical event into his novels, and at the beginning of 'Sahara' we are smack in the middle of the Civil War.  At first you may wonder what it has to do with Dirk Pitt and events in Africa, but don't worry...Clive has a rabbit up his sleeve and when he produces the surprise, it'll give you goosebumps!  'Sahara' has one of Pitt's most nasty adversaries (but then again, aren't they ALL bad??) and has more action per page than any other adventure novel available today.  Action after suspense after thrills--this novel literally has it all. The deadly plague infesting the ocean certainly sounds catastrophic, but with Dirk and Al on the case, one thing is for SURE:  A good time will be had by anyone who cracks the pages of this fine action/adventure/thriller.  Cussler at the top of his form in a story as exciting and fun as anything else in his amazing list of accomplishments.  A darn good read.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-21
US	47950934	R2U4TCM3KWYG0L	0671704648	34109294	Cyclops (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Can a Dirk Pitt novel be any better??  NO WAY!!	Another incredible home run for Cussler!  I picked up this novel the day I saw it at a Mall in San Diego early in 1986.  I read it within a couple days--and I'm a S-L-O-W reader--and I have since re-read it probably 4 times.  One of the surprising things about 'Cyclops' is how well it has held up over the years.  From a search for a blimp, frozen Russian Cosmonauts, a sunken ship which just might hold one of the most sought-after treasures of the New World to the inner workings of Castro's government--and to top it off, a pure nail-biter confrontation on the surface of the moon--'Cyclops' certainly has its fair share of exotic locations as well as more action than you typically find in half-a-dozen other 'adventure' novels combined.  Oh, and if you are an avid Cussler fan, you may remember Foss Gly from 'Night Probe'...well his nasty mug makes a return in this action-packed bullet-train-with-no-brakes of a novel.<br />In short, do NOT pass this one by.  Cussler tosses in just about everything but the bathroom tub--no, wait-a-minute, yes he does. Okay, at least you can be assured that absolutely NOTHING was left out in the pursuit of a tale that is as fun to read as any book you can find in print today.  Simply put, 'Cyclops' is easily one of Clive's best Pitt stories and over the years has remained one of MY personal favorites as well.  HIGHLY Recommended.	2001-02-21
US	47950934	RWKI1EHZL4A8W	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Would the successor to Tolkien's crown please come forth...?	For YEARS, the Fantasy Throne has been dominated by one lone author...known to many as 'R.R.' but now it seems as though we have found (finally!) the next-in-line to succeed Tolkien...and wouldn't you know it, HE has two R's in his name, TOO!  George R.R. Martin has managed to pull off an amazing literary feat with his 'A Song of Ice &amp; Fire' series...although he probably never set out to uproot the Fantasy world and ultimately overtake Tolkien's Territory, however with 'A Clash of Kings' he has managed to produce two of the absolute best novels of the genre ever produced.<br />It is rather humorous to me to see the nay-sayers and their reasons as to why they dislike these books.  I cannot in any way identify with them, but I DO find it funny.  Mr. Martin has developed a fully-realized world that is very nearly as realistic as our own.  Characters who are FAR from perfect, and just when you get around to hating one in particular, Martin gives you a reason to think they are not without merit after all--likewise those who you love sometimes become the most wicked...making this easily one of the most UNPREDICTABLE series EVER.  You NEVER know just what is going to happen next, even if you are absolutely CERTAIN of it.<br />Some have criticized Mr. Martin for writing a series that seems to have no direction...well I think that as long as we are along for the ride and enjoy the trip, WHO CARES?  I for one would NOT like to make the mistake of trying to figure out just where Mr. Martin ultimately wishes the series to go because I am virtually 100% certain I would be incorrect...but let us allow him the CHANCE to DO it!  Mr. Martin started out this series thinking it would be done within 3 novels, but shortly after starting 'A Game of Thrones' figured he would need at least 6 to pull it off...what a fantastic treat for us fantasy buffs!  Many fear that he will come down with a terminal case of 'Jordanitis' which I find a very hilarious term--but also a very accurate one, too.  Nobody wants to see a series stretched too thin where the entertainment factor begins to slide into the deep end.  But I also contend that if each novel were as good as these first two, I wouldn't care if it went to 30 books!  I just cannot wait to start 'A Storm of Swords'.  High marks to Mr. Martin for truly the best of this genre I have ever read.  Highly Recommended!one, too.  Nobody wants to see a series stretched too thin where the entertainment factor begins to slide into the deep end.  But I also contend that if each novel were as good as these first two, I wouldn't care if it went to 30 books!  I just cannot wait to start 'A Storm of Swords'.  High marks to Mr. Martin for truly the best of this genre I have ever read.  Highly Recommended!	2001-02-05
US	47950934	R1C09U7IMTP0QN	0451400399	836701813	To Kill the Potemkin	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A 5-Star Undersea Adventure!	I bought this entirely because of how much I enjoyed Mark Joseph's 'Typhoon' (also exceptional) and it seems as though I made the right choice.  Anyone who enjoys a good submarine story and wants it to be as realistic as it gets--as well as incredibly entertaining--this novel certainly fills the bill.  Tom Clancy can be credited for making submarine's popular, but he is by NO MEANS the king of the underwater adventure.  There are a large variety of sub stories out there to read, but very few are actually any good (Michael DiMercurio is one of the great one's) but I can say in total honesty that 'To Kill The Potempkin' is as solid a techno-thriller as I have had the luxury to read.<br />This one took me by surprise by taking place at the very height of the Cold War in the 60's, when the art of submarine warfare was being written and re-written daily.  The game of cat &amp; mouse under the sea was as dramatic as ANY fictional story, and although this IS fiction, it reads almost like an on-sight account of what actually happened.  America, while far superior in sub design and nuclear technology to the Russians, was behind in one crucial area:  subs made out of titanium.  It is SO expensive that the Navy never actually made use of it...but the Soviet's made many subs that could dive amazingly deep BECAUSE of their titanium hull-design.  The undersea game of kill or be killed takes on a new dimension when a Russian sub is thought to have imploded after having gone too deep...but did she really go down...or did they 'fake it' by playing sound efx that only sounded like a sub breaking up at extreme depths--places that no U.S. sub could go...this is what we get to enjoy on this very exciting and realistic portrayal of naval life on a Skipjack class sub in the 60's.  Mr. Joseph is to be commended by giving us a top-notch techno-thriller which succeeds on EVERY level.  Simply wonderful.  Highly Recommended.	2001-02-02
US	47950934	RMYPM7AIFTJT7	067170866X	910806669	Typhoon	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Simply a brilliant underwater adventure	After reading arguably the most famous sub-novel of all time ('The Hunt For Red October') I was thirsting for pretty much anything that had to do with submarine warfare...unfortunately most of what is available really stinks (except for Michael DiMercurio who is excellent) but when I discovered 'Typhoon' quite by accident, I stumbled upon a fantastic story about the largest undersea machines the world has ever known.  The Typhoon class Russian missle submarine is BIG, as long as the American boomers, but TWICE as wide--and 1 ship alone could wreak havoc and kill millions of people with its stretegic ICBM's.  What happens within the pages of 'Typhoon' are similar to what almost happened in the Soviet Union at the beginning of Gorbechev's reign when a military coup, afraid that the impending breakup of the country would ruin their career's, nearly toppled the government.  In this chilling scenario, a select few Russian military leaders decide to take matters into their own hands by precipitating the entire event by launching missles on their OWN country hoping to place blame in such a way as to stall or completely halt the coming democracy.<br />I don't mind telling you that this actually put chills down my spine to think that whoever is in charge of these ships actually COULD do something like this.  A very sobering thought, indeed. Thank heavens for Admiral Zenko and a life dedicated to preserving peace with the use of the underwater machines he helped to design.  Zenko makes the startling discovery of what is about to happen, and without a second thought, hijacks his own submarine and head's out to sea.  Another wrinkle is placed within this story when the USS Reno shows up to do their assigned 'spy mission' and tries to make sense of what is happening between two of the largest subs in the world and why they act like they are on opposing teams.<br />IF you are looking for a hair-raising techno-thriller-adventure, than 'Typhoon' should definitely be ON that list.  Simply put, this is an exciting story well told by someone who definitely knows the in's &amp; out's of submarine operations (or does a great job of simulating it).t.  Simply put, this is an exciting story well told by someone who definitely knows the in's &amp; out's of submarine operations (or does a great job of simulating it).	2001-02-02
US	47950934	RHD3ABWLC87AH	0515130044	418239112	The Attorney (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Don't be too critical--this is a GREAT courtroom thriller!	Welcome back to print Paul Madriani!!  I have to say, Paul is my FAVORITE character in ALL of the Legal-Thrillers I have read.  I was really missing Paul since Mr. Martini had abandoned him for a couple of novels ('The List' &amp; 'Critical Mass'--both I did not enjoy) but returned back to the character that gave his writing career an incredible boost with 'The Attorney'.  I must say, Mr. Martini has NOT lost his ability to write a hum-dinger of a story.  While not my favorite of his Madriani novels ('The Judge' was by FAR my favorite) this is still a great murder/mystery story that was interesting from beginning to its very end.<br />Now I feel that I MUST register my thoughts on how others did NOT enjoy this book (mostly due to the ending):  According to those nay-sayers, the ending was a bit too neat and contrived and was such a surprise as to merit no credibility...I disagree TOTALLY.  I for one did NOT find the ending a surprise (I had figured the 'real culprit' wasn't going to be the obvious, so I automatically began to suspect those who you wouldn't normally suspect, and lo-and-behold I predicted the killer--WHY?  Because of the tiny clues that Martini laid out in the story!).<br />I enjoyed the location change from Capitol City to San Diego, and all of the legal in's &amp; out's which are revealed in the investigation and the courtroom proceedings.  Its nice to see it done by a REAL attorney (Mr. Martini practiced law for many years prior to becoming an author) and you can SEE where that legal expertise came in to play in this story.  I am clearly at a loss as to why this book received anything BUT 5 stars...Maybe those who were surprised at the ending failed to capture the clues that were left that implicated the 'real' killer...who knows?  All I know is that Mr. Martini is one GREAT legal-thriller writer, possibly the best out there (in MY opinion anyway) and 'The Attorney' is a fantastic example of what a courtroom-drama SHOULD be.  One of the better novels of this genre I have read in the past 5 years.  Highly Recommended.vels of this genre I have read in the past 5 years.  Highly Recommended.	2001-01-31
US	47950934	R2ISJSFKIP9HF8	0515119644	569723924	The Judge (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Verdict is in: This is a GREAT Murder/Mystery!	I have long considered Mr. Martini one of the best (if not THE best) legal/thriller author writing today, and this is MY personal favorite of all his great novels.  If you have read any of Martini's previous Paul Madriani novels, you know that he and 'The Coconut' Judge Acosta have crossed paths a few times in the past--always an unpleasant experience, especially for Attorney Madriani.  Judge Acosta just doesn't like him--pure and simple--actually 'doesn't like' isn't strong enough.<br />As the story begins Judge Acosta finds himself in a most awkward position of being accused of soliciting a prostitute.  He is removed from the bench pending an investigation.  But it doesn't take long before the leading witness for the prosecution against the Judge is found deceased...uh oh.  The Judge is now in SERIOUS trouble...so much so that he actually contemplates something that he never EVER would have thought could happen in a million years:  He hires the attorney that he despises, Paul Madriani.  This murder/mystery/courtroom drama is impressive from beginning to its surprising and absolutely fantastic ending--in MY opinion this has Martini's best ending to date and certainly one of my favorites in fiction.  The courtroom drama is clever, surprising and utterly compelling.  Several laugh-out-loud moments, too (which came as a complete surprise to me) and an all-around tremendous plot.  Easily one of the best in this particular genre I have ever read, and also ranks (again in MY opinion) as Mr. Martini's best novel to date (that includes 'The List' and 'Critical Mass').  Get to know Paul Madriani, the sooner the better, but I recommend starting with 'Compelling Evidence' the novel that debuted Madriani and continue from there.  Highly Recommended.	2001-01-25
US	47950934	R33NFVWND8M1CV	0515110396	467730808	Compelling Evidence (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Great courtroom debut for Martini	My introduction to Steve Martini came with his next novel, 'Prime Witness'.  But after reading that in record time (for ME anyway) and getting bitten by the legal/thriller bug, I went in search of more by Mr. Martini and came across Paul Madriani's first case in print.  The opening chapter is set in the gas chamber viewing a convicted murderer's last moments...a sobering way to start off a murder/mystery to be sure.  The description was SO vivid I felt as though I had actually witnessed an execution myself.  From there we get to know attorney Paul Madriani, a fantastic character not because of his strengths, but mostly due to his faults and shortcomings.  FINALLY!  A lead character I can identify with (except for the affair part).<br />Paul Madriani has problems--a LOT of problems.  He has been fired from his previous job mostly due to an affair with one of the partner's wives (I guess that is a naughty thing to do) and in his private practice, he ends up being encouraged to represent the woman he had an affair WITH as she is charged with murdering her husband who also just happened to be up for a Spot on the California Supreme Court.  It's just one twist after another, and aside from the almost campy bedroom scenes, the courtroom drama is fresh--even if some of the investigative techniques ARE dated (read and you'll figure out) Steve Martini is a natural storyteller with flare and if you like this story, you will be happy to know he just gets BETTER--but I'd recommend reading the Madriani novels IN order (the next is 'Prime Witness' followed by 'Undue Influence', 'The Judge' and finally 'The Attorney').  Fans of this genre NEED to get to know Steve Martini, definitely one of the brighter stars in the field of Legal/Thrillers.	2001-01-25
US	47950934	R1ZSCSBSKW59SS	0451407423	778395280	Barracuda, Final Bearing	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Home in on THIS superior Techno-Thriller!	The absolute unchallenged King of the underwater submarine adventure has DONE IT AGAIN!  I almost want to join the Navy after reading his exciting stories (...ALMOST...).  Trying to avert WWIII...a daunting task, but thank heavens our Sub force is up to the task.  I echo another reviewers praise of Mr. DiMercurio's talent for getting TO the point without unnecessary literary mumbo-jumbo that serves no purpose other than to make the book bigger and ultimately less entertaining (a trap that Clancy has been falling into since 'The Sum of All Fears').  Always a few years ahead, DiMercurio's stories give us descriptions of weapons that just MIGHT be invented and implemented on subs in the near future (if they actually haven't already).  I also appreciate the insight into the minds of those manning these incredible weapons of war, very interesting to say the least.<br />On a side note, recently I visited Portland, Oregon and floating on the Willammette River at the Oregon Museum of Science &amp; Industry is the decommissioned sub, USS Bluefish (remember the sub that came shooting out of the water in 'The Hunt For Red October' the movie?  Well THAT is the same sub).  I took a tour on this, the smallest American sub on active duty for many many years, and it was absolutely thrilling and amazing to walk the decks of a ship that had actually trailed Russian subs during the Cold War.  It reminded me very much of reading Mr. DiMercurio's novels (ALL of which are awesome).  If you ever get the chance to tour a sub, I suggest you do NOT pass it up--it was an incredible adventure to see first hand a little of what life was like on board one of these ships.  'Barracuda Final Bearing' is easily one of the best sub stories available in print today.  A MUST read for any submariner or anyone interested IN subs.	2001-01-24
US	47950934	R16HQXV1TEJ7RQ	0451180518	56275104	Attack of the Seawolf	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Clancy could learn  from THIS author...	Ever since I picked up and literally devoured 'The Hunt For Red October' I have been craving everything submarine ever since, unfortunately for a long time there wasn't much in the way of sub novles to choose from (not that was any good anyway).  Quite by accident I found the book, 'Typhoon' by Mark Joseph (another sure-fire winner, by the way) and my excitement for sub books was rekindled.  But again, I just couldn't find an author who could fill my void...and again--quite by accident--I came across Michael DiMercurio and I have been pretty much satisfied ever since.<br />DiMercurio knows what he's writing about mostly due to the fact that he WAS a submariner and writes from experience.  Now Clancy is no doubt a great author, but experience on a sub was something that he couldn't draw upon, and in 'Attack of The Seawolf' the experience Mr. DiMercurio has had is what elevates his stories above your average submarine storyteller.  The plot isn't half-bad either--which is a definite PLUS to be sure.  How would life on a cylindrical metal tube be like trapped in China? Better yet, how would America go about a rescue if that were the 'situation'?  That is what we are faced with in this highly entertaining and VERY exciting novel.  The action is virtually all over the place along with insights into the mind of the naval officers manning these amazing underwater machines.  An all-around thrilling read that will satisfy YOUR thirst for a sub adventure, too.	2001-01-24
US	47950934	R2K9340OL8APL0	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Possibly the MOST researched novel I have ever read...	My association with Steve Alten's books started a few years ago when I grabbed a copy of 'Meg'.  His sequel ('The Trench')was even BETTER...but these were novels of underwater terror involving a prehistoric megolodon (just imagine a fierce shark the size of the largest whale and you get the idea...)--b-u-u-t the BIGGEST and BEST surprise was that 'Domain' was a complete and amazing departure from his first two novels.  I can't remember if I have EVER read a book that contained nearly as much detailed research as I found within the pages of 'Domain'. The amount of work Mr. Alten put into this story was absolutely staggering.<br />The story starts off with the speed of a runaway meteorite (literally) and just picks up from there.  What exactly hit the earth 65 million years ago and decimated the dinosaurs...if it WASN'T a meteor as the scientists claim, what WAS IT???  Steve Alten attempts to answer this in a most creative way.  To me 'Domain' is very much like a modern-day Indiana Jones meets the X-Files.  Have you ever heard about the ancient Mayan prophecy of doom that predicts the end of humanity on December 21st in the year 2012?  This part of the story is actually based on fact. Yes, the Mayan's DID predict this...will it actually happen?  That is another story--but what if it were TRUE?  That is the adventure you will find here.  From Stonehenge to the Great Pyramid of Giza to the Temple of Kulkukan in the Yucatan to the Nazca Plains in South America, 'Domain' heads in a dozen directions at once--but don't worry, Mr. Alten is in COMPLETE control of what is happening, and at no point do you feel he has lost direction--even IF you have absolutely NO idea where he plans to take you.  Inter-mixing Mayan facts with the Myth's of half-a-dozen cultures--with a plot that is as creative as it is entertaining, 'Domain' succeeds on ALL levels.  It really IS facinating to be entertained as well as educated at the same time.  Just exactly how DID the Egyptians build such incredible structures even though engineers readily admit that the Great Pyramid of Giza would be impossible to construct using the modern mechanics available to us TODAY...how did the Maya build their amazing pyramids without even mastering the wheel?  These are all questions that even the most educated historian cannot answer with any certainty--however if you have a good imagination, you can come up with an explanation worthy of a bestseller.  I cannot recommend 'Domain' highly enough.<br />On a side note, I interviewed Steve Alten recently about 'Domain' and not only is he talented, he's a really nice guy who very much appreciates feedback, and rewards his readers in unique ways.  Easilyone of the most down-right entertaining novels I have read in a long time.  'Domain' deserves to be a HUGE success for Mr. Alten.  Pick this one up and read it before someone makes it into a movie (it'd make a GREAT one, too).credible structures even though engineers readily admit that the Great Pyramid of Giza would be impossible to construct using the modern mechanics available to us TODAY...how did the Maya build their amazing pyramids without even mastering the wheel?  These are all questions that even the most educated historian cannot answer with any certainty--however if you have a good imagination, you can come up with an explanation worthy of a bestseller.  I cannot recommend 'Domain' highly enough.  <br />On a side note, I interviewed Steve Alten recently about 'Domain' and not only is he talented, he's a really nice guy who very much appreciates feedback, and rewards his readers in unique ways.  Easilyone of the most down-right entertaining novels I have read in a long time.  'Domain' deserves to be a HUGE success for Mr. Alten.  Pick this one up and read it before someone makes it into a movie (it'd make a GREAT one, too).	2001-01-23
US	47950934	R172GM5PCTFQYS	0345444922	171159005	Caroline Masters	Books	4	105	107	N	N	The Final Judgement--REPACKAGED, but still pretty good...	I came deceptively close to purchasing 'Caroline Masters' before I noticed at the very bottom of the front cover these words: 'Formerly Titled Final Judgement'...I carefully put it back on the shelf and figured if I wanted to re-read the book I had originally read 4 years ago, I'd go back and open up my 1st edition hardback copy of 'The Final Judgement'.  My question isn't why they re-released the book, but why totally changed the title?  It seems like a plot to milk money from a book that had already stopped making money a couple years ago...now maybe that is a bit too harsh and it may not be true, but if not, why so soon?  I know authors, or more accurately the publishers--do this actually quite often, but it usually happens after decades, not just 4 years after it originally was published...<br />All that aside, this really IS a pretty good example of the legal/thriller genre.  Mr. Patterson has written a good number of superior murder/mysteries, and 'Caroline Masters/Final Judgement' I am happy to say is another literary home run.  If you are a fan of RNP you know he has a predictable pattern to his novels...which is to say he'll start off a story, set the stage, and then before long we are going back in time re-visiting one (or more) characters' earlier lives to find out more of why they are who they are and usually this is staged to plant the seed of doubt as to their possible guilt or innocence. In this novel, Mr. Patterson again takes us back into the earlier lives of our main character and on this journey through time we also run across moments where we can see how and why the accused just MAY be a murderer.  It kept me guessing all the way through, and made me feel that my $25.00 was well spent.<br />WARNING:  IF you have already read Mr. Pattersons 'The Final Judgement' this isn't just the same story re-written, its the EXACT same story totally un-touched--all they did was change the title.  If you HAVEN'T read it before, by all means, pick it up and enjoy a great court-room thriller.y a great court-room thriller.	2001-01-22
US	47950934	RGH8XS19YHIK6	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Iles makes a BIG departure from his previous novels...	I found Greg Iles quite by accident several years ago when I was in the slump of what I like to call, 'Not-having-anything-to-read-at-the moment' syndrome. I came across 'Spandau Phoenix' by Mr. Iles, and normally I rarely read the so-called 'blurbs' written on the cover that make the book out to be the best thing since sliced bread, but for some reason, I took them seriously this time. I found myself reading quite possibly the best action/adventure novel about events that happened in WWII that I had ever come across. His follow-up novel, 'Black Cross' was an even more facinating and powerful account of an historical event during the Second World War that didn't happen, but COULD have... well a few years pass and I begin to wonder where Mr. Iles went to, and suddenly I discover 'Mortal Fear'. I was a bit disappointed because I was expecting it to be another adventure based on a real event from WWII, and of course it wasn't, so on that level alone I was a tiny bit upset--but I should know that authors shouldn't be held to writing one particular genre for all of eternity (although if Mr. Iles could continue producing novels like his first two, I would have been perfectly happy if he did...).<br />I am a BIG fan of Murder/Mysteries, and this novel took off like it was going to be one of those rare stories that compelled you to read for hours on end without regard to waking up early the next morning...but somewhere along the way it just lost its steam--for ME anyway. Don't get me wrong, it is still a good example of the Murder/Mystery genre, however I had a hard time with the incredibly HUGE departure from his previous works into a sordid tale of sex and murder. It seemed to me such a large gap that it was written by someone else. Now I am not claiming that 'Mortal Fear' was written by another person, not at all--however you would be hard pressed to find any similarities between his first two books and this one. I found myself absorbed by the characters in his first two novels because he made them 'real' and people I could identify with (to a degree, of course) and with 'Mortal Fear' this was a story about a man who operates an erotic internet site and I'm sorry, but I just didn't care about what happened to him mostly because I just couldn't identify on ANY level with him. Based on this alone, this novel disappointed me very much. If you have not read either of Greg Iles first two novels, and you enjoy a good Murder/Mystery, by all means, pick this one up and enjoy--but if you have read them, be prepared for an amazing change of pace and subject matter with 'Mortal Fear'. All in all, a pretty good story, but it just didn't 'do it' for me.o novels because he made them 'real' and people I could identify with (to a degree, of course) and with 'Mortal Fear' this was a story about a man who operates an erotic internet site and I'm sorry, but I just didn't care about what happened to him mostly because I just couldn't identify on ANY level with him. Based on this alone, this novel disappointed me very much. If you have not read either of Greg Iles first two novels, and you enjoy a good Murder/Mystery, by all means, pick this one up and enjoy--but if you have read them, be prepared for an amazing change of pace and subject matter with 'Mortal Fear'. All in all, a pretty good story, but it just didn't 'do it' for me.	2001-01-15
US	47950934	R1ZDX3N0783XXU	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Okay, so it's 'Formula'--but THIS formula WORKS...	I've been a big Alex Cross fan since I decided to pick up 'Kiss The Girls' while waiting in line at a Grocery Store several years ago, and I haven't been disappointed in one of these thrillers yet.  I'll admit I didn't particularly enjoy 'Hide &amp; Seek'--but that wasn't an Alex Cross novel.  Authors can work their entire lives before finding a particular 'formula' that works for THEM, and for James Patterson, his talent comes from his amazing ability to breathe life into the character of Alex Cross...but not just HIM, we also get to know a collection of other great fictional folks, like Nana, Sampson and Alex's children, not to mention Christine, his girlfriend/fiancee.  Patterson has found the perfect 'formula' that works for his particular style of writing and for the same reason we pick up a Clive Cussler adventure novel with same action, different local and different bad guy, he consistently gives us what we crave when we fork out $8.00 to buy these novels (I'm cheap, I wait for paperback): PURE ENTERTAINMENT.<br />'Pop Goes The Weasel' captured my attention from the very beginning...however it DID slow down somewhere near the middle, and I had to force myself to pick it up again after I had stopped reading it for about a week--but I am certainly glad I did.  Patterson keeps the plot moving at a feverish pace (aside from a small lull in the middle) with miniature chapters that propel us onward where you end up saying to yourself: 'I'll stop reading after the NEXT chapter...' only to cheat on your goal and stop when you realize you have to get up in just 3 hours... I have to admit I ended up liking our bad guy (Geoffrey), but you could see his falling into madness pretty easily so many of the things that ended up happening were predictable...but like I said, its ALL formula, and with Patterson's style, it all works rather well.  I enjoyed the courtroom scenes very much, and wonder whether or not Mr. Patterson will ever come out with a full-blown legal-thriller one day?  In a nutshell, if you are bothered with Patterson's style of writing in his previous Alex Cross novels, this one doesn't offer much--BUT if you enjoy them, count yourself lucky that 'Pop Goes The Weasel' is YOUR next purchase.  Go ahead, you'll enjoy it.one day?  In a nutshell, if you are bothered with Patterson's style of writing in his previous Alex Cross novels, this one doesn't offer much--BUT if you enjoy them, count yourself lucky that 'Pop Goes The Weasel' is YOUR next purchase.  Go ahead, you'll enjoy it.	2001-01-11
US	47950934	R2BB61Y9XVYDNQ	0553574965	216306866	The Last Family	Books	3	4	7	N	N	I'm sorry, WHERE was the action exactly....?	I guess MY definition of action is a bit different than a few others...if you want action, read Clive Cussler or a James Patterson novel--now THAT is ACTION...however 'The Last Family' did NOT give me what I consider to be action, or even half-decent writing for that matter.  I certainly had high hopes considering the praise this novel received on the back of the book and inside front cover...along with the reviews on amazon...however after spending more than 3-weeks and close to 350 pages reading 'The Last Family' I came up short (it normally takes me 2-weeks to read a novel that I normally consider to be slow).<br />One of the main reasons I picked up this book was not just because of the reviews by other folks, but I also found the plot to be interesting and after reading it, I realized it HAD great possibilities, but when a great idea is put in the hands of someone who cannot give it the potential it deserves, the end result (in my opinion) is 'The Last Family'.  I do not want anyone to believe that I hated this book, far from it, but I also felt that it just did not reach the level it SHOULD have.  For the creative plot alone I would give it 4 stars, but for sheer excitement, a 3 is the best I can do.	2001-01-11
US	47950934	RI8F1PN052EY8	0446525871	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	5	11	13	N	N	This icy novel takes you to the limit of adventure...	I have been a longtime fan of Douglas Preston &amp; Lincoln Child ever since I read their incredibly fun 'Relic' (which still ranks for me as their best release-to-date) I am always excited when I see their next book on the shelf...and after finishing up 'Thunderhead' I just couldn't WAIT to read 'The Ice Limit' although I had my doubts that they could exceed the fantastic adventure I had just finished.  Well not only is 'The Ice Limit' better (in MY opinion), they have come up with probably the most surprising ending since the 'The Sixth Sense'.<br />Preston &amp; Child have come up with another winner of a plot, this time we're at the very bottom of the world trying to recover the largest meteorite ever discovered.  In fact, it turns out to be MUCH bigger than anyone predicted, making it by far the most valuable item of its kind in history.  The problem now is finding a way to transport something so large from the Southern Hemisphere to the East coast of America...Enter Effective Engineering Solutions (EES) a company so certain of their success they actually GUARANTEE they will be able to pull off this amazing stunt.  Herein lies the seeds of an incredible adventure which captured me literally from page ONE.  I like a book that can seize my interest this way, and Preston &amp; Child seem to have a knack for being able to do it in each of their books.  From the eccentric Billionaire who wants the meteorite (Palmer Lloyd) to the mastermind behind moving it (Eli Glinn) and<br />then we have the mysterious Sam McFarlane, who is tapped to help find this massive rock and assist Eli in figuring out all the details of how to move the largest item in history so far.  Now if this wasn't action enough (trust me, it is) factor into the situation the Argentinian Navy which has a ship with a renegade captain who is determined--at ANY cost--to see to it that the arrogant Americans NEVER retrieve whatever it is they are looking for (because he doesn't know for sure himself).<br />Preston &amp; Child have once again served up an incredible action/adventure/thriller that keeps the pages turning as well as gives you an amazing surprise at the end--but PLEASE do NOT  read ahead and spoil the surprise, trust me, it'll ruin the end if you do, but WOW!!  What a GREAT ending!  If you are a fan of these two fantastic and creative authors, do NOT hesitate, run out and grab this book and FORGET waiting until it comes out in paperback--this is worth EVERY PENNY in hardback (for the ending alone).  Highly recommended.br />Preston &amp; Child have once again served up an incredible action/adventure/thriller that keeps the pages turning as well as gives you an amazing surprise at the end--but PLEASE do NOT  read ahead and spoil the surprise, trust me, it'll ruin the end if you do, but WOW!!  What a GREAT ending!  If you are a fan of these two fantastic and creative authors, do NOT hesitate, run out and grab this book and FORGET waiting until it comes out in paperback--this is worth EVERY PENNY in hardback (for the ending alone).  Highly recommended.	2001-01-02
US	47950934	R3S0EDGTR8UFFD	0515121495	944918112	The List	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The BEST Legal Thriller author doesn't pull it off here...	I am of the opinion that Steve Martini is THE BEST Legal Thriller author out there.  Have you read 'The Judge' or 'Undue Influence'?  Just two examples of what a true legal thriller OUGHT to be.  After reading all of his novels, I got to wondering when Mr. Martini was going to travel into different waters other than the courtroom...out comes 'The List'.  I was anxious to pick it up and devour it as I had his previous books but as I managed to trudge through the first 200 pages I kept thinking, 'When is it gonna get better??'  This is TOTALLY unlike ANY of his other books which were great virtually from page 1. Maybe I was just expecting too much, I don't know, all I DO know is that if you expect ANYTHING like a Paul Madriani novel here (OR with 'Critical Mass' which is anything BUT a legal thriller) you will be horribly upset.  If you have yet to read anything by Mr. Martini, maybe this is a good place to start, because it can only go uP from here if you ask me.<br />Looking for a great legal/thriller courtroom murder/mystery?  I have long held the view that Mr. Martini has forgotten more than Grisham ever learned in this particular field, and if you are looking for an example, check out 'Compelling Evidence', or either of the two books I cited above, FANTASTIC examples.  Don't get me wrong, 'The List' wasn't all bad, but c'mon!  It was just so boring by comparison that I--against my better judgement went ahead and gave this 2 stars, heartbreaking as it was since I LOVE Martini's books, but deservedly so.  Sorry Steve.	2000-12-28
US	47950934	R159UUGEP237RT	0440225299	326768810	Numbered Account	Books	2	2	5	N	N	It was better when it came out the FIRST time as The FIRM...	I was really excited when my wife purchased 'Numbered Account' for me for Christmas a year ago...but as I picked it up and began what was a slow read from the very beginning throughout, I couldn't help but wonder, 'Where had I read THIS before?'  Well I finally figured it out when I picked up a copy of a John Grisham novel that had fallen off my book shelf...there it WAS!  'The Firm' has been re-packaged here in the form of a European Bank firm with shady deals instead of a bunch of mob-run Attorney's.  There was very little to like about this novel even though I really WANTED to.  For those who found this to a completely original story either haven't read 'The Firm' or have completely shut out that story in order to absorb what little THIS story had to offer--which is very little, if you ask me. When it comes to originality, I expect a LOT, but when the story has been re-written with different names and different locations I get a bit upset.  But even after all that I can STILL forgive IF at least the story is ENTERTAINING...which 'Numbered Account' just plain ISN'T.  I was thinking that as long as Reich was going to practically steal another novel, at LEAST he could have made the one he WAS writing exciting...but on that level this novel plummets like a lead balloon.  Wish there was more I could say that could be more positive, but as I searched my memory of this book, I found absolutely nothing.	2000-12-15
US	47950934	R3RAC0J88EE5YO	0425162141	626040156	Forbidden Summit	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Reads like a serious episode of the X-Files...	TOTALLY based upon the success of 'Storming Intrepid' &amp; 'Thunder of Erebus' I picked up a copy of 'Forbidden Summit' even though I immediately had reservations because it was a dramatic departure from what Harrison had done before (and done well, I might add).  This wasn't a techno-thriller...it was more of a combination of Robert Doherty's 'Area 51' books and very serious episodes of the 'X-Files'.  Since Harrison is such a good author I gave him the benefit of the doubt and decided to give it a go.<br />I have to say that while being very good, and giving us a great 'what if' story regarding the Governments 'possible' involvement with alien technology it had its moments which made me go, 'C'mon! You don't REALLY expect me to swallow THIS do you??'  Like a few other readers, the so-called defense of America's most Ultra-Secret base is simply ludicrous.  I can suspend my belief quite easily while reading almost ANYTHING, but considering how 'realistic' Mr Harrisons works in the past had been, he seemed to have made my expectations a bit too high in his previous works only to have it dashed with a few descriptions here.  However this notwithstanding, 'Forbidden Summit' is STILL an entertaining look at a very popular and oft-written subject of the so-called, 'Area 51' base.  If you are a fan of Harrisons earlier stuff (far superior in MY opinion) this will still grant you some hours of fun reading, but don't expect it to be nearly as realistic as his first two novels.	2000-12-14
US	47950934	R2ZZO56RJ9AJP4	0804108773	661477409	Thunder of Erebus	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Erebus is a THUDEROUS tale told VERY well.	Like many who picked up a copy of 'Thunder of Erebus' I did it entirely because of how much I enjoyed 'Storming Intrepid' (which I recommend HIGHLY as well).  I am VERY happy to say that Mr. Harrison's streak continues with novel #2 and it is in every way as good and in some ways even better than 'Intrepid'.<br />NOBODY enjoys a good techno-thriller like I do, but this was so much more.  Now it isn't without its faults however--nothing insurmountable, but it DID present a bit of an originality problem for me.  First we've got the very rare radioactive substance called 'Rubidium' so rare in fact that they can only find it in enough quantity in a very IN-hospitable place: Antarctica.  Now why is this stuff so valuable?  America plans on using it for an incredible defense platform that creates an invisible solid barrier in the sky which when implemented will render ANY incoming missles useless if/when they hit the 'barrier'.  Now WHERE have we heard THIS before???  Has anyone read 'Raise The Titanic'?  In that scenario (written MANY years previous I might add) America is searching for an incredibly rare substance called, 'Byzanium' which will be used to create an invisible barrier which will effectively render Intercontinental Ballistic Missles useless... oh and guess where they discover this Byzanium??  In a very IN-hospitable place North of Russia on an island called, Novaya Zemyla.  Now I'm sorry, but this 'coincidence' is a bit too convenient for me to give this a 5-star rating, in fact, if it were NOT for this glaringly obvious problem, it would have in fact received a full 5-stars.<br />Okay, aside from this little problem, I very much enjoyed 'Thunder of Erebus'.  A great techno-thriller that as I have come to find is out-of-print...a BIG mistake if you ask me. I found my copy at the used bookstore...maybe if you are fortunate enough you can find it in like manner.  If you haven't read 'Raise The Titanic' you will enjoy this novel a LOT more than if you had and also recognized the similar plot-lines...either way this is a superior techno-thriller which deserves a LOT more acclaim than it ended up receiving.d also recognized the similar plot-lines...either way this is a superior techno-thriller which deserves a LOT more acclaim than it ended up receiving.	2000-12-14
US	47950934	R323FU53F96Z61	0804105537	538905055	Storming Intrepid	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shuttle Hijacked?? What'll we do??  We ENJOY!!	This was my first introduction to Payne Harrison, and it was so good I have since picked up everything else by this talented author--who doesn't seem to be tied to writing just techno-thrillers...<br />I felt the idea of hijacking the Shuttle was a clever one, however since I had not heard of Payne Harrison, I was reserved and grabbed a copy of this book... .  I found out quickly enough that this was written by a talented author who had a major future in the techno-thriller genre, should he continue to write in that particular field.  I loved every moment of this book.  I can't TELL you how ANGRY I was at my son when he knocked over a cup of water and soaked my copy of 'Storming Intrepid'...it took several days to dry it out, and it  was hopelessly bloated out-of-shape, but I was about three-quarters through it and I was NOT going to be stuck without a resolution--which, I might add was far from predictable.<br />This wasn't simply a techno-thriller, but it was a grand adventure in every sense of the word.  With everything that makes a Clancy novel so exciting (minus the endless drone of needless details) plus the added excitement of getting a shot at going into space, I don't need to tell you that this is rocket-ride you NEED to take, and the sooner the better.  I have to say that Harrisons other novels are JUST as fun, so if you found this one good, check his other books out, too--you will be VERY glad you did.	2000-12-13
US	47950934	R2SSWVOESFKP2R	0812545486	491521082	Ignition	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Combine Armageddon &amp; Die Hard &amp; you get Ignition...	As far as I can tell, this is a tried &amp; true formula that Hollywood has been using for YEARS, and it felt like on more than one occasion as I read 'Ignition' that I was reading the EXACT formula for a blockbuster movie screaming to be headed by Bruce Willis...however, with that said, I have to say that this was an exciting novel regardless.  Sure it was predictable.  Sure there was an obvious character who SHOUD'VE been ON the Shuttle, but due to circumstances beyond his control he was grounded, and SURE it ends up to be HIM who saves the day.  This novel is FULL of 'SURES' but I SURE DID like it no matter what!<br />This is a change from my other reviews of novels that were written by Kevin J. Anderson.  Until I had picked up a copy of 'Ignition' (on the advice of a friend) I had a distinct LACK of respect for Andersons writing ability (his Star Wars books are a dismal failure in MY opinion) however this book was a dramatic change from his previous sci-fi books that were just plain awful.  It is likely that NOTHING will surprise you within the pages of 'Ignition' but I am fervently hoping that SOMEONE in Hollywood picks up a copy of this and decides that the next summer blockbuster movie just very well could be from the pages of this book...	2000-12-13
US	47950934	R14C6Y09SF9X91	0446604801	440825646	Jack & Jill (Alex Cross)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not the BEST Alex Cross story out there, but still good	After having hopelessly addicted myself to the trials and tribulations of Alex Cross when I picked up a copy of 'Kiss The Girls' I felt it my duty to pick up 'Jack &amp; Jill'.  I find Pattersons writing style to be quite different than most authors out there (Every other chapter written in 1st person) and although I had my reservations at first, I have come over to be a loyal supporter of Pattersons way of writing.<br />With that said, is 'Jack &amp; Jill' his best novel?  Nope.  'Course I am consistently surprised at the negative comments on particular reviews here on Amazon at books that I have not just enjoyed, but downright LOVED.  Now I wouldn't go so far as to say I loved this book, but I AM a bit confused at some of the not-so-kind reviews...I feel (and still do) that Patterson really knows how to pace his novels, and I for one do not judge his books based entirely upon previous books he has written.  With EVERY author they hit home runs, and then a few singles now and<br />then, and were it not for the home runs, they would be considered above-avereage writers.  In Pattersons case, I believe him to be one of the best in the crime/thriller genre.  He writes in tiny segments that are all primed to 'get-to-the-point' without wasting time and unncessary words and descriptions.  Miniature chapters that are in and of themselves small mysteries, and some with ENORMOUS cliff-hangers.  Patterson paces his books like a gigantic literary drag race.  His stories do not just start and build up speed, nosiree--they are catapulted into action which NEVER LETS UP until the last page.  All in all I liked 'Jack &amp; Jill' very much, and if you are a fan of Alex Cross I believe you will find this one another great 'whodunnit' with a satisfying conclusion.	2000-12-12
US	47950934	R2LQ3V7FB98TZY	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Sorry but 'The Poet' was Connelly's best work to date...	After having read 'The Poet' and finding it to be absolutely one of the BEST crime/thrillers I had ever read, I figured that Connelly had also written other great stories as well...so I picked up 'Concrete Blonde' and decided to give it a go.  After 200 pages I finally gave up.  I can't say as though I thought it was bad, but it was SO different than 'The Poet' (which I LOVED if you couldn't tell) that I was totally disappointed with how this one started out.  Maybe my concentration was off that couple days when I tried to read it, I don't know--but the end result is I just couldn't finish it.  But I WILL say this:  For what little I DID read, I felt was well written, just not nearly as compelling as my 'other' favorite...Sorry to the Harry fans.	2000-12-12
US	47950934	RMRXEPIG0UZBU	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What a GREAT whodunnit/murder/mystery/thriller!!	This was my very first foray into the literary world of Michael Connelly...and I would have to say that I chose a really great story to start off with.  We start off as most murder/mysteries do, with a murder, under somewhat mysterious circumstances, however the police and it seems everyone else associated with this crime immediately dub it suicide and let it drop...however the deceased twin has other thoughts.  Not under ANY possible conditions would his brother do himself in...but everyone continues to tell him that thoughts to the contrary are a complete waste of his time.  His job as a journalist has instilled in him a desire to dig a bit further, and the more he digs, the more he is convinced that his brother was in fact murdered.<br />As the plot unfolds he uncovers more and more evidence (one wonders after a while how inept the police could be to have missed it all...but anyway...) what HAD been a suicide now becomes a homicide.  After a bit more digging around he discovers that this isn't the only murder our 'Poet' has undertaken.  I also wondered a bit how in this day of shared information with computers how on earth these multiple murders with pretty much the exact M.O. could go without notice?  Despite this glaringly obvious error (in MY opinion) this story was well written and compellingly so.  I felt that I HAD to finish this novel as quickly as I could, if for no other reason than to solve this crime and get it overwith.  I disagree with at least one other reviewer who felt that the story was too 'Scooby Doo' like...WHERE on EARTH did he get THAT IDEA???  Maybe this guy should be out there writing best-sellers if he can critique these books and have the gall to tell the author exactly HOW to write his books.  Writing a story is difficult, but to make it good enough to make a living at is almost impossible, and takes a LOT more skill than most people realize, and 'The Poet' is a great story no matter WHAT was said by other reviewers--at least it was to THIS reader.o THIS reader.	2000-12-12
US	47950934	RDI88UBNEC6VF	0446606189	265763987	Cat & Mouse (Alex Cross)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Welcome back Gary Soneji--we've missed you...	We first met up with Gary Soneji in 'Along Came A Spider' and as I read that story I felt that I was being introduced not just to a terrifying and seriously disturbed individual, it almost seemed as though Patterson had patterned him after an honest-to-goodness REAL serial killer.  Well I like many others felt that my first introduction to Gary would also be my last...but NO! Patterson has brought him back...and with a vengeance!  The opening chapter alone is like a Saturn V rocket at T-Minus 1... LIFT OFF!!  You are suddenly launched into motion with no hope of release until the end of the book...and I can assure you that Patterson keeps the tension going throughout.<br />Now I personally believe that Gary alone could have made this story a 5 star review, but Patterson has gone one step further and introduced an ADDITIONAL killer to the mix, and now Alex Cross isn't just busy, he's frantic with the thought of dealing with TWO murderers at the SAME TIME.  As I have said before, Patterson writes his novels in miniature chapters that waste NO TIME getting us to the heart of the matter.  Little tiny literary drag races as I call them because each help to keep the story going at incredible speed.  Reading Patterson is like reading ON speed--without any side-effects (other than a lack of sleep...).  Just one continuous adrenaline rush from page 1 to the absolute last page.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.  Get to know Alex Cross, easily one of my all-time favorite characters in modern crime/fiction.	2000-12-12
US	47950934	R12L2IOO1UT4Q7	0446603716	783958961	Hide and Seek	Books	2	19	20	N	N	James...WHAT in the WORLD HAPPENED???	First off, I LOVE JAMES PATTERSON novels...however as long as 'Hide &amp; Seek' is mixed in, then all bets are off.  Patterson has an incredible talent for writing, and one of the best things about his novels are how he can get you involved in the lives of his characters, and how you even develop a liking for the bad guys as well...however in 'Hide &amp; Seek' I just didn't care one whit about ANY character in this novel at ALL.  It wasn't because I gave up on the story, either--nope, I read this entire story thinking that beyond the next page it was going to get better like his other brilliant Alex Cross novels.  Now let me say one other thing, I DO NOT judge this or ANY other novel by Patterson based upon his previous novels, other than he has written so many great books, I figured even a poor book by Patterson was better than some other author's BEST work...not so here, unfortunately.<br />'Hide &amp; Seek' cannot be compared to ANYTHING else that I had read by Patterson simply because it seemed as though it was written by another person altogether.  Maybe I am so much of a fan of Alex Cross that I can't read anything that DOESN'T have him in it...but I discounted that theory because I have many other favorite authors who sometimes stray from their main carry-over characters and it has never presented a problem for me in the past, so I was just stumped here.  Well maybe, just MAYBE it was because 'Hide &amp; Seek' was simply not Pattersons best work...?  I would like to think otherwise, but I think that this is the ONLY explanation that seems to make any sense to me.  For those who liked this novel, not only do I envy you (because I really WANTED to...) I wonder why you actually DID?  But in any case, I STILL think that Patterson is one 1st rate author (despite this book).`	2000-12-12
US	47950934	R2X1DIA48Z9YF0	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A TREMENDOUS improvement over Subterranean...	As I read 'Subterranean' I couldn't help but wonder if Mr. Rollins was going to be introduced to what folks in the publishing biz call an 'Editor'...he has such raw talent and great ideas, but they don't get to run through the editors gristmill before they hit the pages.  His first novel was a hodgepodge of ideas strung along together in order to keep your interest--and that he did, but at the expense of smooth writing and editing.<br />'Excavation' remedies a LOT of what I found disappointing in his first novel.  As far as I can tell either his talent has greatly increased or an editor finally decided to reign in his ideas and give them direction because SOMETHING has happened in between novel 1 and novel 2--something very good.<br />I found myself drawn into this tale virtually from page 1 and it honestly began to get better, gradually at first, and then like a steamroller with no brakes it takes off and refuses to slow down.  I have to say, that the thought of being caught in an archaelogical dig with THOUSANDS of albino tarantulas massing to use YOU for an evening snack was enough to bring the hair on my neck to attention.  More detailed, MUCH more complex, 'Excavation' is a great Hollywood movie in-waiting in my opinion. Kinda like 'X-Files' meets 'Indiana Jones'.  A great combination and overall, a VERY fun and exciting novel, and when all is said and done, a TREMENDOUS improvement over 'Subterranean'.	2000-12-11
US	47950934	R2VRL1DYZ8HP6W	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Classic 'Whodunnit' with a twist...	My introduction to Jeffery Deaver was mostly due to the movie, 'The Bone Collector'.  After seeing it, I felt that even though I was CERTAIN the book was a hundred times better, I felt that the plot alone was pretty impressive, and decided to give 'The Coffin' Dancer' a go.  I was NOT disappointed!<br />I think the character of Lincoln is far and away one of the best in modern crime/fiction.  We are normally force-fed macho-men who are an odd combination of Arnold Schwarzenegger &amp; Albert<br />Einstein with a little bit of a 1-900-Psychic thrown in for good measure.  Lincoln Rhyme represents everything we've come NOT to expect in a crime solver.  Not only making this character seem 'real' but making him an honest-to-goodness hero is no small task, but Deaver pulls it off here in GRAND STYLE with 'The Coffin Dancer'.<br />Who IS The Coffin Dancer?  Deaver never keeps you from the WHY he is trying to kill...however how do you catch someone who is almost always one step ahead of you?  Rhyme is a forensic genius, and between him and Amelia they solve problem after problem only to find out that they have fallen for the Dancers pre-selected diversion.  On and on it goes, cat &amp; mouse until the incredible and might I add, VERY SURPRISING ending.  I am rarely taken by surprise THIS much in novels, but I have to admit, this was a complete and totally UN-expected twist--one that I enjoyed in a BIG way.  In MY opinion, this story earned 5-stars for the ending ALONE--but thank heavens, the ENTIRE story is all a great combination of what makes a standout 'whodunnit' something really special.  'The Coffin Dancer' truly IS a classic.  I can't WAIT to read 'The Empty Chair'.	2000-12-11
US	47950934	R3AX975TEZKT0A	0446608378	270870625	Thunderhead	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thunderhead left me THUNDERSTRUCK!!	I wanted more than I can say to buy this in hard back when it came out...but I was strapped for cash and, well--suffice it to say I had to wait for the paperback before I was able to finally satisfy my addiction to Preston &amp; Child's work.  I can say in all honesty that the wait was TOTALLY WORTH IT.<br />I STILL find 'Relic' to be their masterpiece, however I would have to say after having read all of their books-to-date that 'Thunderhead' ranks at #2 on my list of favorites by these two<br />amazingly talented thriller authors.  I have been an armchair Indiana Jones ever since I discovered the facination of archaeology, and this book was almost as good as BEING there! It has ALL the elements of a great adventure/thriller: a treasure that is screaming to be found, danger &amp; the seeds of romance. Now I have to admit that I find the idea of sprouting a romance under the circumstances described in 'Thunderhead' a bit hard to swallow.  I don't know about you, but if MY life is in danger, trying to figure out a way to sleep with the heroine is NOT gonna be high on my list of priorities.  However just about everything else here was practically the perfect recipe for an incredible page-turner.  I also enjoyed the fact that the characters were not 2-dimensional clones of so many others out there.  Simply put, Preston &amp; Child have delivered a fantastic and memorable action/adventure/thriller that has elements of the X-Files that ALL go towards making this a worthy addition to the great books written by these great guys.<br />On a side note, check out 'The Ice Limit' by Preston &amp; Child. TRUST me, the ending WILL take you by surprise!  NOT 100% an equal to 'Thunderhead', but a really FUN story, though.	2000-12-08
US	47950934	R2GOW806DQZLWC	0425138232	930176831	Eye of the Storm (Sean Dillon)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wanna read a Clancy book in half the time?  Try THIS!	I have many times viewed a good Jack Higgins novel as a Tom Clancy story written with less than half the words.  I'll give it to Jack, he wastes no time getting to the plot and moves it along at a fast clip, too.  What we have with 'Eye of the Storm' is a fictional re-telling of the botched bombing of #10 Downing Street in London in the 80's.  How was the plot to attempt to assassinate Prime Minister Thatcher hatched?  How was it to be executed?  AND most importantly: WHO was behind the bombing?  This novel gives us an entertaining fictional version of the hows, who's and the why's.  Sean Dillon, who ultimately becomes a good guy in future Higgins stories is portrayed as a troubled but highly intelligent IRA strongman who is given the task of killing one of their biggest enemies.  The authenticity with which this novel was written makes one wonder whether or not Mr. Higgins actually HAS IRA connections...or is just a very very good author.  I'd like to think it was his talent.	2000-12-07
US	47950934	R1IP1TRKNE0GRH	0812510127	406074565	High Flight (McGarvey)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	I normally enjoy Hagberg--but this was way too long...	First off let me say that I am a true David Hagberg fan having read ALL of his books (except for Joshua's Hammer--haven't seen it at any local bookstores--YET) but it seemed to me that he was TRYING to specifically tackle a subject that was very ambitious and in so doing attempted to unseat the techno-thriller throne established by Clancy.  And in the process wrote an otherwise entertaining novel that could have EASILY been done with 300 LESS pages.  There was SO MUCH unnecessary everything that it nearly took a great story and made it absolutely dreadful.  I HATE feeling this way, especially since I have enjoyed each and every Kirk McGarvey novel to date.  All in all I enjoyed this one,too--but it definitely isn't without its faults.  Contrived meetings between secondary characters which solve nothing, and ultimately move the plot BACKWARDS rather than FORWARDS.  I also felt that Hagberg taking on the Japanese was a bit too coincidental that it came out not long after Clancy's 'Debt of Honor' which ALSO has the US being attacked by the Japanese, and before that it was Michael Chrichton's 'Rising Sun' where we got to read a LOT of anti-far East diatribes and even farther back to Clive Cussler's 'Dragon'.  Sure all of these novels are unique but it almost seems as though there is a trend going on here that pits US against THEM (Asians--Japanese in particular).  Maybe I am taking this a bit too far, but I always become disappointed in novels that in order to look more sophisticated than they really are add hundreds of useless pages of backwards-plotlines that take the story nowhere fast.  Okay, off the soap box.  If you are big Hagberg fan, read and decide for yourself, it WASN'T a BAD novel, just not what I felt it COULD have been if a lot hadn't been cut out first.	2000-12-07
US	47950934	R1LC14OX5JNA3D	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	3	0	0	N	N	If you want Action-Light, Subterranean fills the bill...	I had been meaning to begin 'Subterranean' for quite some time but had always stayed away for fear that it wasn't going to be all it COULD have been.  I have to say that I was right.  As far as a premise, it was a hum-dinger!  A cave discovered at the bottom of the world underneath Mt. Erebus--a BIG cave.  But that isn't all, people are disappearing--well armed people are dying left and right, and the military is in charge, yet knows NOTHING. VERY facinating premise indeed...however it seemed rather choppy in its layout.  A nice and neat cliff-hanger (sometimes literally) on virtually every other page kept the pace relentless which isn't a BAD thing at all, but it sometimes distracted the storyline for me.<br />It became rather obvious that I was going to have to suspend my belief in order to swallow portions of this book rather quickly...again which ISN'T a bad thing, but some of the living 'surprises' we come upon in the story stretch our imagination a little too thin if you ask me.  In fact it seemed as though there were way too many evolutionary surprises found in this book.  Also, the creatures known as the Crak'an were very interesting, but after describing the cave tunnels as being so small and tight, and then to write about these creatures as large as bull elephants, well it just didn't compute.<br />With that said, I STILL enjoyed the book.  I finished it faster than I usually do, and I have already picked up Rollins' 2nd outing, 'Excavation'.  I am fervently hoping that as most authors do, he improves upon his first outing in the literary world.  Mr Rollins' definitely has a knack for pacing and can come up with great storylines, as long as he continues to improve and he becomes associated with an editor who can harness that raw talent he has, I can see some very good things in the future coming hot off the presses.	2000-12-06
US	47950934	R1UG1VT1FO4HHJ	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Terrorism on OUR home turf...very frightening indeed	Clancy has given us probably his least techno-thriller to date with 'Patriot Games', and he doesn't miss a beat.  Jack Ryan, acting more on instinct rather than rational thought intervenes in a bold terrorist plot in London to kill Prince Charles and Lady Di.  Being in the wrong place at the wrong time gives Jack a chance to foil the entire scheme, more from luck than anything else--but the end results are the same: the terrorists failed.<br />Leapfrog over the big pond and back to America and all seems to be hunky-dory for Jack and his family.  He is recovering from the wounds he sustained in the attack, and well, he begins to re-think his job and role in life.  During all this, the surviving member of the terrorist plot has made a daring escape, and now plans to bring the war to Ryans backyard.  His rage for avenging his disgrace for failure at Ryan's hand borders on madness.  He absolutely MUST teach Ryan a lesson.  As it happens, Charles &amp; Di are visiting America, and after quickly making friends with Jack and his wife (after all, it WAS nice of him to save their lives...) in England, they are invited for dinner at Jack's place.  Believe it or not, Clancy writes it so the circumstances are NOT as hard to believe as you might think.  Now we've got a BIG problem.  Not only is Ryans family slated to be 'taken care of', a kind of punishment for interference in London, but now the original targets will be there, too.  What a nice coincidence for our terrorist...and what a GREAT story for US the readers.  Clancy here shows us just HOW he came to not just INVENT the throne for the 'techno-thriller' but came to dominate the genre.  Although as I said earlier, there isn't much techno-speak in 'Patriot Games' as in his other novels, it IS high on action.  If you count yourself a Clancy fan, then you HAVE read this...if you HAVEN'T...what are you waiting for??	2000-12-04
US	47950934	R3AVJGT11WP110	0446600261	364054470	Cauldron	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The 'Red Storm Rising' of the 90's...	Larry Bond first came to my attention with 'Red Phoenix' a fictional telling of North Korea's invasion of South Korea in 'Red Storm Rising' style.  You get virtually EVERY possible view of war, from the battle on land, to how it goes in the air, and even from the water.  You get to see it from the eyes of those in charge, and how they will handle this dramatic situation.  I thought that 'Red Phoenix' was great reading, kinda like 'Red Storm Rising Light'.  Since it had already been done by Clancy, there was little new in the story, just the location.  Then Bond came out with 'Vortex' and a war erupts in South Africa.  I have to say I enjoyed this even more than his first novel...but again, it seems as though we had already covered this ground before.  And then comes 'Cauldron'...yet ANOTHER re-telling of a ground/air/sea war, only this time the setting is Europe.  As authentic as the battles are, after treading over this ground first with Clancy's 'Red Storm Rising' and then with Bond's first two novels, well it seems like it's getting a bit old...however I STILL enjoyed it...better in fact than 'Red Phoenix' AND 'Vortex'.  Good stuff, well written with PLENTY of action.  My personal favorite was the launching of a nuclear-tipped cruise missle...the tension that Bond built for this scenario was truly well done.  But after all this warfare, I have to admit I was VERY happy when Bond's next novel came out and was not only even better than 'Cauldron' but was a totally different KIND of novel as well.  If you enjoy warfare well written, than by all means rush out and grab his first 3 books, they are all a re-telling of pretty much the same stories, but 'The Enemy Within' is TOTALLY different and VERY good.  All in all, Bond very much would like to be in the same class as Clancy, but I think until he can make ALL of his novels different, he'll ALWAYS be in the shadows waiting to come forth with something truly inspiring.	2000-12-04
US	47950934	R2FG5574PHJ04C	0671008846	836520037	Dark Victory (Star Trek)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More like 3 1/2 stars...	Having been a life-long Trek fan, and after reading all of Shatner's previous novels I knew I had to have 'Dark Victory'. The idea of exploring the 'Mirror Universe' in more detail is facinating and it definitely makes for entertaining reading. 'Spectre' started off the 'mirror' saga pretty good (and better than 'Avenger' I might add) and it kinda left you with a cliff- hanger at the end.  Well I'll warn you right now, if you are hooked on this series, the ending of 'Dark Victory' leaves you dangling even MORE SO.  I WOULD have given this a 4 star review if not for one small complaint I have been developing over the past few novels in regards to Shatner's treatment of Picard.  Either he is at odd's with Picard the character or Patrick Stewart the actor because he is increasingly treating him as inept.  Maybe this is a small complaint, but it is growing with each of the past 3 of his books.  Also, I don't pretend to know all of the advances in technology in the 24th century, but to convince me that Kirk is more physically able in his 60's than say Riker is...well it's ludicrous--but that is exactly how Shatner is portraying Kirk in his books...and in 'Dark Victory' we've got TWO Kirks.  'D.V.' picks up IMMEDIATELY where 'Spectre' ended, and completely changes course as to WHY the gigantic transporter was built...is it to transport the Enterprise-E to the mirror universe as stated in 'Spectre' or is there a more sinister plot brewing here hatched by the diabolical Emperor Tiberius, the most evil human in ANY recorded history.  Shatner hints towards something else, but we never get to find out what that is because the story ends just as it was really beginning to take flight.  All in all Shatner has written some VERY good Trek stories, above average I would have to say--especially the really well done, 'The Return'.  However Shatner harnassed that magic in his first two Trek novels, he seems to be waning a bit here.  Will I pick up a copy of 'Preserver' and finish the series?  Of COURSE (although if he drags this series on past this book I'll be a bit upset).  But will I grab it in hardback?  Probabably not.  The story moves like a locomotive with no brakes and aside from my personal little complaints, I really have enjoyed ALL of Shatners visits to the Trek Universe.series?  Of COURSE (although if he drags this series on past this book I'll be a bit upset).  But will I grab it in hardback?  Probabably not.  The story moves like a locomotive with no brakes and aside from my personal little complaints, I really have enjoyed ALL of Shatners visits to the Trek Universe.	2000-12-04
US	47950934	R2OCCH6IZQB0M4	0446603856	632642370	The Enemy Within	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A GREAT story of 'What If?' that we HOPE never happens...	I consider myself a Larry Bond veteran.  I started with his first book, 'Red Phoenix' many years ago, and absolutely loved it.  His 2nd and 3rd novels were a re-hashing of his first story, sorta like 'Red Storm Rising' with different locations, but all were very well written, and each novel better than the previous. When 'The Enemy Within' came out, I half expected it to be yet another scenario of war like his other novels had been, but I was pleasantly surprised when it was not only different, but TOTALLY different.  This is Bond's 1st true effort to reach the level of techno-thriller established by Tom Clancy.  While not as complex as Clancy, Bond DOES hit paydirt quickly with this very well-written story of terrorism on OUR soil.  The premise is actually almost too simple to be true, but it IS:  What if Iran wanted to invade Iraq?  What is to stop them from doing so?  An intervention from the United States most likely.  But what if America was busy dealing with something more important while this invasion took place?  But WHAT could be so involving that we couldn't notice or even attempt to do something about a full-scale invasion by Iran?  How 'bout dealing with terrorist on OUR home turf?  Terrorists who aren't afraid of doing the unthinkable...even to a school-yard full of children.  I tell ya this story made me think, 'What IF?' on more than one occasion. Our country has been spared (for the most part) terrorist activity unlike other parts of the world where it doesn't just happen, but its every day life.  HOW would we really react?  What would we DO?  Would we really be taken off guard SO MUCH that this nightmarish scenario could actually happen?  I actually think so.  Larry Bond has given us a truly horrific story that borders on not 'what if' it happens, but closer to 'when' it happens...  Not just a good story, but a GREAT story that is likely to stay with you long after you are finished.  Kudos to Bond...let us all PRAY this scenario NEVER plays out in real life.eal life.	2000-12-04
US	47950934	R30X0OWIMIZSK	0812524020	702304132	Footprints of Thunder	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Jurassic Park it AIN'T---but it IS a fun read	After quenching my dinosaur thirst with 'The Lost World' (a great sequel, by the way) I happened to fall upon 'Footprints of Thunder' quite by accident, and figured the plot sounded decent enough to give it a go.  I have to say I was glad I took the risk.  As another reader mentioned, the overall premise is at best ludicrous...but c'mon! It's DINOSAURS we're talking about, you pretty much HAVE to suspend your belief in order to fall for it in the first place.  But after you DO...well that is when this book takes off.<br />Author David sets us up with all kinds of odd phenomenon that has happened not just in the novel, but in real life, too.  Accounts of it raining fish miles away from the nearest lake or river and a few other unexplainable occurances (some of which ARE from the authors imagination).  Then, all-of-a-sudden--the landscape of the entire planet is changed in the twinkling of an eye.  Parts of earth remain the same, but OTHERS suddenly become earth of the past...the WAAAAY PAST.  Now we've got dinosaurs walking the streets of New York City.  Sound interesting?  I have to admit once I got past the odd premise, I really enjoyed 'Footprints of Thunder' very much.  Was it better than 'Jurassic Park'?  I don't think it even comes CLOSE.  But hey, for a great beach read or something to pass the time on a long flight, it makes for a fun escape into the partial-world of the paleolithic. Overall, not bad.	2000-11-28
US	47950934	R3NBG2AW3FCTGY	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The suspense is REAL!	After having read Preston's frightening 'The Hot Zone' I felt that he could only scare me witless if he ever tried a fictional story along similar lines...and 'The Cobra Event' is exactly that: very frightening.  Could it happen?  It sure seems like it could, which makes it even more horrific.  It should be no surprise that Richard Preston has it within himself the ability to write a hum-dinger of a yarn because his brother is Douglas Preston, one-half of the duo that gave us 'Relic', 'Thunderhead' and 'The Ice Limit' (among other great thrillers).  Richard takes us on a journey that is both scary and entertaining as well.  In several instances the story made me feel as though I were witness to something truly horrible, as though I should turn away but couldn't.<br />In one respect we've got a straight 'Bio-Thriller' of the 1st order...in another vein (sorry) we've got a classic 'whodunnit'. Preston combines the two seamlessly and the tension mounts from beginning to its satisfying climax.  What more can I say?  I enjoyed 'The Cobra Event' VERY MUCH.  I have to give a warning though:  some of the scenes described in the story are every bit as horrific as can be in written form.  A few almost made me gag. The detail is stunning, realistic and written so well you feel as though you are really THERE...all that was missing was the smell (for which I was profoundly thankful they COULDN'T re-create).  This is a thriller as good as most out there, and maybe even more so because the stuff in THIS book isn't just fantasy, it COULD ACTUALLY HAPPEN.  I pray it doesn't.	2000-11-28
US	47950934	R30BZXLZS6ECM7	0312962452	76228771	Medusa's Child	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Improbable...sure--FUN &amp; ENTERTAINING?  You BET!!	I was drawn to this book entirely because of how much I enjoyed 'Pandora's Clock'.  I was a bit skeptical as to whether or not I would enjoy it as much, but I assure you, for MY dollar, 'Medusa's Child' more than surpassed 'Pandora's Clock'.  The premise is sorta improbable at best...however just suspend your belief for a little while and suddenly the story kicks into overdrive--turbo-charged, too.<br />'Medua's Child' has all of the elements of a classic adventure story, with a few others thrown in for good measure.  We have a slightly mad scientist--YEARS ahead of anyone else, who develops a fully working nuclear weapon that can (in theory) literally cripple pretty much the entire United States.  It all has to do with the electromagnetic pulse which is a secondary effect of a nuclear detonation.  As you may know, an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) fuses practically EVERYTHING with a computer chip, from car engines, computers to sophisticated toaster ovens and even more dangerous, nuclear power plants, dams and well as you can imagine, the results would be catastrophic to say the least. But how could one single nuclear weapon damage such a large area? Good question, this is where Mr. Nance asks us to suspend our belief a bit.  He proposes that the 'Medusa Wave' in theory is a weapon that dramatically increases the size of the EMP...so much that it could almost reach from coast-to-coast.  The story flies with the speed of an F-14 being launched from a carrier at sea.  Never once does it lag once it gets going--which doesn't take too long.  Nance has given us a fantastic 'what if' scenario that plays out nicely, and like I said, even though the premise is improbable at best, it sure was FUN and ENTERTAINING.  Give Nance a go and I think you'll be back for more really soon.	2000-11-27
US	47950934	R2LG9IZQCG7NPG	0312960344	788305791	Pandora's Clock	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Go ahead...take THIS flight!!	Like many others who have reviewed this book, this was my 1st read by Mr. Nance, and I have to admit, it held me captive from beginning to end.  I like nothing more than to be totally captured by a story and think of nothing but finding out what is going to happen next...if a book can get me to be THAT absorbed by its tale, then by default I give it at LEAST 4 stars.  Pandora's Clock deserved 4 stars, but I reserve my 5th star for something truly special (to me at least) and while Nance may not have achieved that 'something special' for me, it was still an action-packed story that really did have me entertained all the way through.  As I read, I kept wondering HOW Nance was going to keep this plane aloft for hundreds of pages while still maintaining an entertaining story, and without giving away anything too important, not all of the story takes place in the air--or even on the plane for that matter.  Just TRUST me, if you are a fan of action/adventure stories, this is definitely one of the 'must reads' if you ask me.  Oh, and by the way, his follow-up book was even better.  All in all, Nance is a writer with a VERY promising future...IF he can keep writing books this good-- I for one certainly HOPE he does.	2000-11-27
US	47950934	R2Z89YDYJCZCWD	0671551310	461272769	Avenger (Star Trek)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	NOT Shatners best work to date...	After reading the fantastic 'The Return' I was eager to devour another great visit from the literary world of William Shatner...and when 'Avenger' came out, I figured I had found my 'fix'.  Unfortunately it was a few steps on the ladder below 'The Ashes of Eden' AND 'The Return' in the way of entertainment. I found it interesting indeed, and like another reviewer mentioned, I had to outright laugh when Kirk came on more physically able than Riker, smarter than Data and you could see the behind-the-scenes rivalry Shatner has with Picard because he out-thinks him at virtually EVERY turn, practically making him look stupid by comparison.  It was these particular parts that I not only found overblown, but outright ridiculous.<br />Now with that said, I STILL enjoyed the book...WHY? you might ask?  Well unlike some people who read books and tear them to shreds, I understand that I am NOT supposed to take a science fiction novel seriously.  C'mon, it's Star Trek for heavens sake! Kirk doesn't really exist, and neither does ANY Trek character, so therefore I understand that no matter HOW contrived the plot may be, it was written for me to enjoy, and that I did, very much (not as much as his first two Trek books, or the subsequent follow-ups, though).  Shatners collaboration with arguably the BEST Trek authors in existence (Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens') pays off for the most part, but despite a lightning fast plot and fun gadgets galore, its the plot itself that brings 'Avenger' down a notch or two.  I find it a bit hard to swallow that the United Federation of Planets, with the combined resources of a slew of planets and preparations, that overpopulation could sneak up on them without a tremendous plan designed to correct it in place decades before it could become a problem...but if I suspend that belief because as I said earlier the book was written for FUN, it was a fairly fun read altogether.  Now Shatner's follow-up ('Star Trek: Spectre' and 'Dark Victory') are actually MUCH better overall...and I very much look forward to reading 'Preserver'...but I can't say whether or not I'll wait for the paperback...are actually MUCH better overall...and I very much look forward to reading 'Preserver'...but I can't say whether or not I'll wait for the paperback...	2000-11-21
US	47950934	R3553CPEW28V2H	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun but predictable--despite the mistakes...	I have NO idea WHY I picked up 'Meg' in the first place, but despite my original 'feeling' that it'd be cliche and trivial, I have to admit, I DID enjoy it--despite the mistakes Mr. Alten makes in regards to oceanic life, sharks and a few others...  But like I said, all that aside, Alten HAS given us a fun adventure with an over-sized prehistoric shark believed to have been extinct for millions of years.<br />WHAT IF Megolodon's DID still live??  Well 'Meg' works to give us an idea of what 'might' happen if not only one was discovered alive, but made it to populated waters.  The descriptions certainly make the 'Meg' out to be roughly a million times more frightening than ANYTHING else currently alive on the planet, including insignificant white sharks (tiny little ancestors). Should a Meg actually escape the Trench and make it into the open seas I would imagine the carnage would be horrific indeed. I found 'Meg' to be predictable, and the ending was a bit contrived but above and beyond all that there was something about this story that still had me entertained.  I can't put my finger on it, but should 'Meg' ever be produced into a mini-series or theatrical release--and we all know it COULD happen, and they would end up RUINING it by re-writing just about everything--IF in fact they went along with the script, I can see summer blockbuster written all over this one.  Hollywood, are you listening???	2000-11-21
US	47950934	RUW6Z77OJFIEN	0671741454	369224769	Vendetta: The Giant Novel (Star Trek the Next Generation)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	One of the best Trek Novels out there...	Peter David...easily one of the best authors in the Trek Universe has written another fantastic winner here.  Not only does he visit the Borg, one of the better 'bad guys' that has come from Trek, new series or old, but David also goes back in time and gives us a tale about the Doomsday machine that was featured in the original series.  We remember that with the help of Commodore Decker, the doomsday machine was ultimately rendered useless when they rammed a shuttlecraft and eventually an entire starship down it's gullet.  Okay, now that we've revisited that episode, David gives us a plausible explanation as to why the doomsday machine was built in the first place: to combat the Borg.<br />Peter David has so clearly captured the 'feel' of the Star Trek Universe that the characters we have come to know and love are not just actors we see on TV, they are real, and they feel (except for Data...) and they hurt.  Just a fantastic example of what a REAL Next Gen book SHOULD be like.  How he ties the doomsday machine in with the Borg is just fantastic AND truly creative.  You root for Delcara, but you don't necessarily want to because you know what her winning will mean to countless innocents.  Do NOT go another day without getting to know Peter David as clearly one of the top 3 Trek authors currently in print (or OUT of print for that matter).  'Vendetta' is a great story and a worthy addition to the Trek Universe and definitely worthy of YOUR time.	2000-11-21
US	47950934	RNQ46OQLN3E8C	0812543262	584815540	Relic (Pendergast, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Now THIS is what a thriller SHOULD be like...	I wanted this book the moment I saw it. For SOME reason I could NOT identify, I just KNEW it was going to be good...well I was wrong...it wasn't just good, it was GREAT. One of the reviews calls it Jurassic Park meets Jaws, and I think that might give the wrong impression of what this story is all about. Originally this was going to be just something to read on my bus trips to work while my car was being fixed, but it turned out to be MUCH more. I ended up reading this at every spare moment I could (including a few that I couldn't) and insisted that my wife read it--and although she is notoriously very much against violence and action, she finished the book faster than I did.<br />When the movie came out I was first in line on opening day...unfortunately the movie tanked in such a horrible way that it might actually convince folks who were thinking about reading it to avoid it entirely---DON'T DO IT! Read the book, and let the authors give you a taste of what a thriller SHOULD be like. I've GOT to tell you, the setting for this book is by FAR THE most frightening building I have ever read about in fiction. Preston &amp; Child do an impressive job at describing just how utterly horrific it could be to not just be trapped inside the basement of one of the largest buildings on the planet, but trapped WITH something more terrifying than words can describe (although the authors do a good job of it...).<br />The ending was truly a surprise to me. I can't say that about too many books I read (and certainly no movies I can think of) and no matter HOW impossible the plot seemed, Preston &amp; Child swept me up into their world, one that was peopled with good, not-so-good and downright bad people and one very scary, 'thing'. I HAVE to admit that for a first collaboration, these guys get it right on the money and STILL my favorite book they have put out to date (the sequel 'Reliquary' is actually just so-so by comparison). There are just a small number of authors that I actually look forward to reading...and Preston &amp; Child are ON that short list. I have to say, their latest, 'The Ice Limit' was superb--especially the VERY UNEXPECTED ENDING. That book was worth the price for the last chapter alone. If you have yet to read anything by these two very gifted authors, do yourself a favor and pick up ANY of their books, and get to know the fictional and fun world's in which they have created, you will be VERY glad you did, trust me.lly look forward to reading...and Preston &amp; Child are ON that short list. I have to say, their latest, 'The Ice Limit' was superb--especially the VERY UNEXPECTED ENDING. That book was worth the price for the last chapter alone. If you have yet to read anything by these two very gifted authors, do yourself a favor and pick up ANY of their books, and get to know the fictional and fun world's in which they have created, you will be VERY glad you did, trust me.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R23QBQOW7P9XCE	0671867296	173123212	Imzadi (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What an amazing tale...	If you are a fan of The Next Generation, you might be familiar with the term, 'Imzadi'.  It was a Betazed term that was between Deanna Troi and William Riker when they first met years ago before they served on the Enterprise.  This story is an incredibly creative account of how Troi and Riker first met all those years ago.<br />As many of Peter David's stories go, this one has many different levels.  We first begin with an older Riker taking a ship to the Guardian of Forever (serious Trek fans will remember this from the original series)-illegally I might add, and using the Guardian to alter the past to save Troi from dying years before.  The plot jumps back to their first meeting on Betazed many years before the events which take place on Next Gen.  The creativity that went into writing this is really amazing, and my hats off to Peter David for conjuring up a story worthy of Star Trek and STILL keeping true to the original series.<br />I in particular enjoyed the addition of the Guardian of Forever into the plot.  Was Troi SUPPOSED to live and NOT die?  As you may know, altering history is a no-no under the Prime Directive and that is exactly what Riker plans on doing...along the way we uncover a very sinister murder/mystery that is well calculated and plotted out, and well I just can't say enough good about this great story.  Pick up 'Imzadi' and if you are a true Trek fan, you just can't be disappointed.  (unfortunately 'Imzadi II' doesn't live up to the first story--but it was still pretty good).	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R2FKNUF5YGYUXA	0786011149	36141406	The Trench	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Jaws meets James Bond!	I have to admit, when I first picked up 'Meg' I felt it was actually entertaining (its inaccuracies notwithstanding) but I also felt the ending was a bit contrived...which is why I did NOT purchase 'The Trench' when it came out in hardback, but instead waited for the paperback version.  It is obvious to see that Mr. Alten has improved greatly upon his original premise of prehistoric incredibly large sharks terrorizing the Pacific Coast...but he has added a totally new dimension when he added<br />the intrigue with the Russian connection.  Did this distract from the storyline?  I don't think so...it DID however make me wonder exactly WHERE the plot was going at times, but don't worry, it DOES get there.<br />Alten also adds a new twist with a new lifeform that is discovered in the Trench, maybe not as big as the Meg, but one that could be the basis for his next novel (I couldn't help but wonder if he was setting up his next undersea adventure when these creatures made their debut).  In short, 'The Trench' improves in almost every way upon 'Meg' (which really wasn't all that bad to begin with--just a little overly dramatic) and I could sense maybe a 3rd 'Meg' book in the closing portions, but I could be wrong.  The bad guys are really bad, the good guys are almost too impossibly good to be true, and the action sequences move at incredible speed--BIG TIME.  I have to say I enjoyed this book very much, even though I KNEW the bad guys would lose and the good guys would win.  I can see the day where I'd gamble on a 3rd installment from the world of the prehistoric shark--should Mr. Alten get around to writing one, or whatever else he dreams of, I am definitely game for another action/adventure from him...and I think this time I just might go for the hardback edition instead of waiting...	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R3AOOT5ULSUFNX	0671896768	569987566	Crossover (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A GREAT idea--but not a great book...	I have read plenty of Michael Jan Friedman stories to know that he LOVES Star Trek, but I can always count on him to give me a less than stellar story...I can't put my finger on it, but let's just say they never seem to end up being all they COULD have been...and 'Crossover' is another example of what I mean.  The idea of Reunification isn't original, however the way Friedman presents it here IS...but it just didn't seem to have that Trek magic I look for.  Peter David certainly has it in HIS books, and so does Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens, in fact these authors are TRUE serious Trek writers...but Friedman fails in his attempt to reach that 'something' that makes the story truly magical.  It WAS an entertaining read, as are ALL of Friedman's Trek stories, but if you know what I'm talking about, they just lack something that makes them a little more special.  But if you are looking for a Next Gen story that includes Spock, Scotty and a very old Admiral McCoy, then this story does seem to fit the bill.  All in all, a good story (hence the 4-star rating) but not quite the cream of the crop.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R1EXGCO9I10M6D	0671520369	817979215	The Ashes of Eden (Star Trek)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	William Shatner CAN write after all...who knew???	After reaching the end of my list of books to read, I stumbled upon 'The Ashes of Eden' quite by accident, and against my better judgement, I picked it up and began to read (I mostly avoided it because Shatner had written 'Trek V: The Final Frontier' easily the WORST of the Trek movies...).  I MUST admit I was captured by this tale from page 1.  It takes place after the events in 'Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country' and quite possibly the worst thing that could happen to Kirk does, one of<br />his arch enemies in the Federation becomes it's military head. Kirk resigns his commission and ends up with Teilani (who makes a comeback in his later books as well) a Klingon/Romulan hybrid who Kirk falls madly in love with.  At first I thought that Teilani was the 'bad guy' so-to-speak, but that isn't the case. A few high placed members of the Federation are desperate to find a secret cache of doomsday weapons stored on a little known planet called, Chal.  This planet is even more amazing because it is rumored to reverse the aging process of its residents.  Well take a wild guess where Kirk ends up??  He reluctantly becomes involved with his former crew (remember he resigned his commission...?) but those lightning-fast captain reflexes come in pretty handy in many places and in short, Shatner has given us a great story to whet our appetite for more Trek.  Clearly this is a cut above the average Trek fare that is available out there, in fact ALL of Shatner's follow-up Trek stories are superior to most of the novels out there (you can chock that up to his collaboration with Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens'). 'The Return' is another fantastic story--in fact probably his best yet.  If you wonder what happened in the events immediately after Star Trek: Generations, 'The Return' answers that with a truly amazing tale which also gives us the origins of the Borg and how V-Ger is involved...  I'll forgive Shatner his monumental failure with 'Trek V' because his novels seem to be VERY worthwhile Trek adventures and great additions to the Trek Universe.VERY worthwhile Trek adventures and great additions to the Trek Universe.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R21XHZHKZ980EF	0812564375	666062148	Mount Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	GREAT follow-up to 'Relic'--FUN, FUN, FUN STUFF!	Let me introduce you to Douglas Preston &amp; Lincoln Child, two of MY favorite authors...and 'Mount Dragon' is their 2nd book together following up their incredible, 'Relic' (truly one of THE BEST action/thrillers of the past decade).  Good stuff!!  In a small almost insignificant way, this book reminded me of 'The Firm' by Grisham...let me explain:  In THAT book, the main character ('Mitch') joins up with a law firm that has him unwittingly involve himself in illegal activities...in 'Mount Dragon' our main character joins up with a bio-lab to continue work that at first seems not just worthwhile, but actually an enormous benefit to mankind...but all isn't as it seems of course.  Unwittingly he get's involved in something so sinister, it makes your flesh crawl.<br />Another superior thriller from Preston &amp; Child!  Aside from the tiny disappointment of 'Reliquary' (the sequel to 'Relic') these boys pump out thriller after thriller and they are ALL good, really good.  I would say that 'Mount Dragon' is a techno-bio-thriller, one of the first major ones to hit after the 'Hot Zone' became such a smash a few years back, and this one STILL ranks as one of the best out there.  Good stuff from GREAT authors.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R2JHJUGRJOTLVD	067187974X	67371077	Dark Mirror (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Not half bad...	I LOVE it when authors tie-in an episode from the original series with the Next Gen...I can't get enough of them, and I thought that I was in store for a rollicking good time with Dark Mirror but it just seemed to be 'missing' that extra something that would have made it really something special.  What exactly 'IT' is, I'm not entirely certain, I just know that this story was missing 'it'.<br />With that said, Diane Duane has given us a creative story that meld's the original episode of 'Mirror Mirror' with OUR Universe in the Next Gen timeline and it DOES work really well--when William Shatner writes about it in HIS incredibly fun series of books that begins with 'Star Trek: Spectre'.  Now THAT is how I wanted this type of scenario to play out...but I have to admit that Duane DOES do a pretty decent job, but comparing it to the series that Shatner is in the process of writing now is very unfair, one is just plain superior to the other (guess which side I'M on...?).  If you need a quick fix of Trek, and you have read just about everything else, go ahead and give this a try, it ain't half bad, but like I said, it just lacks 'it'.  Understand?	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R184G4TZ1SS4BV	0671733893	912995167	Q-In-Law (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 18)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I actually laughed OUT LOUD reading this great story...	I can't think of a more entertaining premise to The Next Generation than having Troi's Mother suddenly wield the power of Q.  We saw what happened when Riker held it for a short term, but oh the possibilities if Lwaxana could be in that same situation...  With 'Q In-Law' we find out exactly what that situation might have been like.<br />I rarely (if ever) laugh out-loud by myself while reading almost anything--especially a science fiction novel...but I sure did while reading this one, and more than once, I might add.  I simply cannot spoil the enjoyment of this story by revealing too much of the plot, but suffice it to say that Q regrets his allowing Lwaxana to wield this power in a supreme way.  Peter David is certainly one of THE BEST Trek authors out there, and this one is certainly one of THE most entertaining Trek stories of all-time.  I found myself just WISHING on more than one occasion as I read this book that they had made this one into an actual episode--it would rank as one of the best I assure you. Now if you like this story, do yourself a BIG favor and pick up Peter David's fantastic 'Q Squared'--it is everything this one is (but not as funny) and a lot MORE.  Easily one of the most complex Trek stories ever written, and also one of the most satisfying as well.  Only serious Trek fans need apply if you know what I mean.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R2VTT98034RE3W	0671891510	567743757	Q-Squared (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best Q-themed novel--hands down!	Peter David ranks up there with Judith & Gar Reeves-Stevens' as the Trek novelists with the best all-around talent for creativity and Trek knowledge.  To fully appreciate Q-Squared, you MUST be aware of a few items from Trek's History...namely that in the Original Series episode, 'The Squire of Gothos' the character, Trelane is first encountered.  We discover here in Q-Squared that he is nothing more than an infant member of the Q Continuum.  The next item you need to know about is that once-upon-a-time Captain Picard served with Beverly Crusher's husband, Jack, but he died...<br /><br />...If you are not a genuine Trek nerd, this book has the ability to make you hopelessly confused, but good luck anyway.  Peter David introduces us to 3 different universes within the complex 'Multiverse' and in only one out of ALL the Multiverses, Jack Crusher has NOT died.  In that one particular universe he--and not Jean-Luc Picard is the Captain of the Enterprise.  As Trelane meanders from one universe to the next--and this is where the confusing part comes into play--he seems bent on attempting to destroy ALL the Multiverses--while Q attempts to stop him.  It would certainly be under Q's guidance that the possibility of the known Multiverse becomes threatened, huh?  The different universes are kept on track by the author through an ingenious use of different Tracks...if you intend on reading this book over the course of a few months, be prepared to become confused...as you will need to refresh yourself almost each time you pick up the book because of three SEPARATE stories being handled simultaneously, and even though they come together quite well at the end, it takes some getting used to in order to have a freakin' clue as to what in the WORLD is going on.  At first I was almost ready to stop when I realized that finishing would end in a tremendous payoff...and I was right.<br /><br />Some of the reviews of the book suggest that if you are not a gigantic Trek nerd, don't even try to read this, but I disagree...but only a little.  Apparently I AM one of those nerds, and I very nearly gave up way too soon...but a LOT of the plot being 100% understood depends upon how well you know the episode 'The Squire of Gothos' in order to wrap your head around the plotline (all 3 of them), let alone understanding and appreciating the whole concept of the Multiverse.  To those willing to give it a shot: GOOD luck and enjoy!  Peter David really IS one of the truly gifted Trek novelists and continues to write and receives very little of the incredible praise he so richly deserves.even try to read this, but I disagree...but only a little.  Apparently I AM one of those nerds, and I very nearly gave up way too soon...but a LOT of the plot being 100% understood depends upon how well you know the episode 'The Squire of Gothos' in order to wrap your head around the plotline (all 3 of them), let alone understanding and appreciating the whole concept of the Multiverse.  To those willing to give it a shot: GOOD luck and enjoy!  Peter David really IS one of the truly gifted Trek novelists and continues to write and receives very little of the incredible praise he so richly deserves.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R1SXR1MPJ8PS5L	0812542835	410299170	Reliquary (Pendergast, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good...but NOT as good as the FANTASTIC 'Relic'	After reading 'Relic' I couldn't WAIT to read anything by Lincoln &amp; Child--ANYTHING.  With 'Mt. Dragon' they served up a pretty good and scary story about a Bio-Lab in the desert that was actually really fun to read and to recommend to my friends as well.  Then came along 'Reliquary' a SEQUEL to one of my ALL-TIME FAVORITE thrillers.  I nearly cried knowing they had seen fit to fill that void in my reading mind...unfortunately 'Reliquary' wasn't nearly as entertaining as 'Relic'.  I absolutely HATE saying that since Lincoln &amp; Child have become two of my favorite authors.  At one point I actually stopped reading this book, which was 100% different than my experience with 'Relic' because I couldn't get ENOUGH of that book.  It pains me that I have profaned these two incredibly talented authors, but aside from what this may do to their feelings, I'd be lying to myself and others if I gave this book the highest rating that it could get, and as good as it actually IS, it just wasn't as compelling as 'Relic'.  If you enjoyed the original, you pretty much owe it to yourself to read it and judge for yourself (I have a friend who insists it is better than 'Relic') because I am not the voice of everybody.  I must admit that I have enjoyed EVERYTHING I have read by Lincoln &amp; Child, including 'Reliquary' and found that 'The Ice Limit' was one of my favorites (the ending is a total shocker--TRUST me).  All in all if you are looking for some action/adventure novels that are a cut above the rest out there, Lincoln &amp; Child fits the bill.  Give 'em a try and if you haven't read anything by them, do yourself a treat and read 'Relic' TODAY.  Simply put a fantastic novel.	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R2I0CCZSTEEU83	0446607177	11618814	Riptide	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Now THIS is what you call a swashbuckling adventure!	EVERYTHING about this book screams, &quot;MOVIE&quot;!  But since Hollywood butchered 'Relic' and turned one of THE GREATEST thrillers of the past decade into a silly waste-of-time matinee, I'd recommend to the authors to leave it as is.  'Riptide' is an old-fashioned fun adventure/thriller.  The story of Ragged Island sounds like a pirate story out of some historical novel of the high seas, and Lincoln &amp; Child make the most of their time behind the computer and make us feel our money was well spent on this superior adventure yarn.<br />I HAVE to admit I actually figured out the 'problems' they were having with the Island about three-quarters through the book, but that in no way took away the entertainment the book provided. Talk about a perfect formula for an adventure story: A buried treasure on an island that is VERY mysterious...what could be MORE entertaining that that?  I can't think of much, and the authors have once again made me feel that buying their books in hardback is a gamble that WILL pay off.  I have YET to read a poor book by these guys (and I've read them all to date) and I STILL think that 'Relic' is their best, but I have to admit, 'Riptide' 'Thunderhead' and the amazingly fun 'The Ice Limit' are getting close.  Pure FUN STUFF!  Lincoln &amp; Child are really worth the price!	2000-11-20
US	47950934	R2QO2T9ZJDTQ5X	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A worthy addition to the masterful Foundation series...	Who but the MASTER could have thought to add on to the most celebrated science fiction series of the past 50 years?  When I first read this book back when it came out, I found myself at a loss as to a few things mostly because it had been SO LONG since I had read the original series--but after reading it a 2nd time, I realize it was able to stand on its own fairly well as a single novel, and not an addition to an amazing series.<br />I'm not the only one who felt it was fantastic, it received I believe the Hugo &amp; Nebula award that year as well as best Sci-Fi novel--an honor very much deserved, I might add.  The scope of Foundation's Edge is clearly that of an imaginative genius, and it continues un-abated in the next book, 'Foundation and Earth' which is MY personal favorite of ALL the Foundation books.  Asimov isn't just good, he's legendary and only Frank Herbert has come close to writing science fiction that is as compelling, thought provoking and just plain GOOD (actually I believe that 'Dune' beats ALL science fiction books--including Foundation). Pick this up and if you are one of the millions who have enjoyed the Foundation series over the years but were reluctant to pick up a new book, trust me, it's GOOD.	2000-11-17
US	47950934	R1KS9NTZWEJBGO	0061056391	275631839	Foundation's Triumph (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	4	0	9	N	N	Not bad...but NOT Asimov--but then again, WHO IS?	The best of the 3-most recent '2nd Foundation' series of books, and actually if not compared with Asimov's fantastic Foundation novels, it stands pretty good along with the other two books in this series.  When Asimov received that special Hugo award in 1965 for best science fiction series of all-time, I believe it was before the world was granted the Dune series--in MY opinion THE grandest and most complex of ALL sci-fi series of ALL-TIME. I honestly believe if there were a chance to have that award given today that as good as the Foundation series is, let's face it, Dune and its subsequent sequels beats 'em hands down (I actually believe that Dune beats Foundation all by itself WITHOUT the sequels...) and should that special Hugo ever be given out again, should definitely go to Frank Herbert.  All in all though, David Brin is to be commended for his vision and even though it is the shortest of the 3 newest volumes, it was able to wrap things up pretty neatly, while still leaving room for additional novels...  Here is what I would like to see: a possible sequel to Foundation and Earth...what happens in the world of Foundation AFTER Hari Seldon...it's the direction that Asimov went in before he died, it only makes sense that if we were to have additional novels, THAT is where it should go--but that is just MY (and many others) opinion...  As long as you don't judge it incessantly by the original series, 'Foundation's Triumph' is a very GOOD book indeed.	2000-11-17
US	47950934	R1XRR8YVI02LR2	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Frank Herbert it AIN'T--but it ain't half bad, either	I took upon myself the job of reading 'Dune: House Atreides' mostly because I believe with all my heart that the original 'Dune' ranks as THE BEST sci-fi novel of ALL-TIME, and wondered whether or not ANYONE could do it justice.  Now with that said, as long as you remember the MOST IMPORTANT thing while reading this first of 3 installments, you will probably enjoy it...do NOT forget at ANY point that this WAS NOT written BY Frank Herbert--IF you remember THAT, then it wasn't half-bad.  I think (and this might come across as sacrilege to some) that 'Dune: House Atreides' is better than a couple of the later 'Dune' books by Frank himself.  Some believe that the later 'Dune' books were even better than the original (but that is an impossibility in MY opinion) but remember, this is just ONE GUY'S OPINION, be it right or wrong in your mind, this is how I feel.<br />My BIGGEST complaint about this book was the authors felt necessary to include SO MUCH into the plot that it jumped around a bit too much for me.  But all in all, it kept the overall 'feel' of the Dune Universe, which alone I feel is a major accomplishment.  I just cannot imagine what a daunting task it was to not just imagine continuing the GREATEST sci-fi series of all time, but to actually DO it...it must have been phenomenal. After purchasing their weight in Pepcid AC, these guys have managed to pull out of the hat an enjoyable addition to the remarkable Dune saga, and in short, a pretty fun sci-fi story that helps us learn more about the incredible world we call, Dune.	2000-11-17
US	47950934	R3OWB2X8463W2P	0553573926	681381779	Vertical Run	Books	5	0	0	N	N	DIE HARD meets The FUGITIVE!	I can't even remember the circumstances which came about that turned me towards reading 'Verticle Run', but I am VERY happy I took the drive.  The ONLY novel that I have EVER read which maintains a pace as fast as this one is 'The Day After Tomorrow' which starts a little faster, but is no less entertaining.<br />In short, our poor lead character get's ready to go to work and out of nowhere it seems that EVERYONE wants him dead.  WHY??  He has absolutely NO idea.  When he gets to work at a very tall high rise it just gets worse.  Everywhere he goes there is someone new whom he previously thought was a friend trying to end his life.  As the story progresses, this mystery is slowly unveiled, like an onion, a little at a time.  Mr. Garber makes us literally salivate for the REAL reason all this is happening, all at the same time moving the plot at a breakneck pace--and I'm NOT kidding, this plot MOVES.<br />It wasn't long into this book that I began wo wonder WHO was going to play the lead in the movie-version.  'Course it doesn't matter because they would probably screw it up like Hollywood ALWAYS does.  Trust me, IF they made it JUST like the book, not only would it be FANTASTIC, but it'd be a HUGE blockbuster, too. I have recommended this book to 7 people, all of which have thanked me over and over again for turning them onto 'Verticle Run' (I think Mr. Garber might owe me some royalties I'm not sure...).  So here is my PERSONAL endorsement of this book:  Pick it up today and enjoy the ride at faster than the speed of sound.  It isn't going to stretch your intellect, let's be honest...but it WILL give you a few hours of fun.  C'mon, we don't watch action/adventure movies and read the books in hopes of becoming SMART, now DO we?  We watch and read them 'cuz they are FUN, and that is EXACTLY what 'Verticle Run' is, a PURE adrenaline rush of FUN.  Grab it today and enjoy.	2000-11-16
US	47950934	R3A2EQ021OZNN9	0345402308	695206548	The Fourth Procedure: A Novel of Medical Suspense	Books	4	3	4	N	N	GREAT 1st novel by Pottinger	I also agree that this novel is less about the pros-&amp;-cons of abortion and more about a story that just happens to have abortion as one of it's many storylines.  I remember picking up this book and after a hundred compelling pages or so, I STILL had no idea where the book was going.  When we are finally treated to 'where' it was heading, I have to say it really took me by surprise.  Of ALL the things I was prepared to expect out of what I had read, what eventually happened was a COMPLETE<br />shocker.  I'd tell you but TRUST me, finding out what 'it' is truly IS the best part of the book.  After finishing 'The Fourth Procedure' I went looking for other books by Pottinger only to find out that it was his FIRST novel.  I was pretty impressed with how good he got it.  Now I COULD have given this book 5 stars, but seeing as it was his first novel, I'll leave room for him to improve in the future, and when I pick up his next book (not IF, WHEN) I'll do another review and I fervently hope that Mr. Pottinger improves upon this work (which would be difficult, but possible) and I sincerely hope he earns a 5-star that time. 'The Fourth Procedure' is a great whodunnit/medical-mystery/pure thriller, and I think it practically defies a particular genre, and just might create a whole new one.  Good stuff from a promising new author.	2000-11-16
US	47950934	R2XY6DE7PZNQ93	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A MASTERPIECE, pure and simple...	The events that led me to read 'Dune' are long and boring, suffice it to say that I only ended up reading the novel after first seeing the HORRIBLE HORRIBLE movie they TRIED to make... Normally such an embarassment would keep me from wanting to read it, but I had heard SO MANY incredible things about 'Dune' that I just KNEW that they had ruined it when they attempted to turn something SO complex into a 2-hour movie (which is just BEYOND impossible if you ask me).  I finally tackled the book and after I stopped reading it a couple times, on my 3rd try (don't they say the 3rd time is the charm??) I finally succeeded in getting past the first 50 pages.  I'll admit, this is FAR from the easiest book to get into...however when you finally DO, you are in for a ride you will NEVER forget.<br />I have NO idea where to begin.  The characterization is fully realized.  Even the minor one's seem real.  The detail is superb. To think that Frank Herbert was rejected by over a dozen publishers before finding one who gave him a shot is incredible to me.  They COULDN'T have read it in order to reject it.  That would be like rejecting Oxygen as necessary to survival.  From the economics of not just the planet, Dune, but a complete Galaxy of planets and those who fight for control of the most valuable source in the known Universe: the Spice Melange.  And let's not forget the mighty Sandworms.  Truly on a level far and above EVERYTHING else available in the realm of Science Fiction today (at least to MY knowledge).  I had high hopes for many other authors, but NOBODY ever came close to 'Dune'--not even Herbert himself.  I might ruffle a few feathers here, but I never found the subsequent sequels nearly as truly amazing as the original.  Its as if Herbert's hand was directed by a higher power when he wrote 'Dune' and it never came back entirely in the following volumes...close but no cigar as they say--which ISN'T to say they aren't good, just not up to the bar set by the facinating &amp; amazing 'Dune'.<br />On a small side note, in the field of fantasy I do believe we have a series of books that could possibly be considered the literary equivilant to 'Dune' and that is George R.R. Martin's fantastic 'A Song Of Ice And Fire' series.  But in this series I believe Martin has been able to not just be able to write a good first book, but he has managed to IMPROVE upon the first book and even the 3rd book is better.  It's a runaway snowball<br />effect, but as it gets bigger, it keeps going UPHILL instead of DOWN.  High praise indeed comparing ANYTHING to 'Dune' but I think it'll stand the test of time.<br />If you are a science fiction reader, you cannot in good conscience consider yourself well-read UNTIL you have finished 'Dune'.  It is the bar by which ALL other Sci-Fi books are measured, and by which ALL other's fail.  I've read some truly great sci-fi novels out there, but I'm tellin' you, NOBODY has been able to beat 'Dune', and I'll be surprised if they ever do-- although I'd be thrilled if it ever DID happen.  Simply put THE BEST Science Fiction book not just in print today, but more than likely of ALL TIME, in short, a TRUE MASTERPIECE.p; amazing 'Dune'.<br />On a small side note, in the field of fantasy I do believe we have a series of books that could possibly be considered the literary equivilant to 'Dune' and that is George R.R. Martin's fantastic 'A Song Of Ice And Fire' series.  But in this series I believe Martin has been able to not just be able to write a good first book, but he has managed to IMPROVE upon the first book and even the 3rd book is better.  It's a runaway snowball<br />effect, but as it gets bigger, it keeps going UPHILL instead of DOWN.  High praise indeed comparing ANYTHING to 'Dune' but I think it'll stand the test of time.<br />If you are a science fiction reader, you cannot in good conscience consider yourself well-read UNTIL you have finished 'Dune'.  It is the bar by which ALL other Sci-Fi books are measured, and by which ALL other's fail.  I've read some truly great sci-fi novels out there, but I'm tellin' you, NOBODY has been able to beat 'Dune', and I'll be surprised if they ever do-- although I'd be thrilled if it ever DID happen.  Simply put THE BEST Science Fiction book not just in print today, but more than likely of ALL TIME, in short, a TRUE MASTERPIECE.	2000-11-16
US	47950934	R3CG6RBGSNUOJV	1565077172	809019083	The God Makers: A Shocking Expose of What the Mormon Church Really Believes	Books	1	22	48	N	N	I hear that Ed Decker believes that God doesn't exist...	I saw this movie and had a 'friend' donate the book to me several years ago, and found it to be drivel of the highest order.  Now if you want to take as fact from a guy who was excommunicated for adultery from the LDS Church to be fact, that of course is your decision.  Mr. Decker's own son is a devout member of the Church and maintains that his own Father is evil in his motives, whatever they may be.<br />It is unfortunate in this day and age people can be taken by such garbage.  As I watched this movie I couldn't BELIEVE that ANYONE with an ounce of brains could swallow this.  IF as Mr. Decker claims is true, that the Mormon Church has a so-called 'Mormon Mafia' which searches out and kills those who fail to keep their Temple Covenants, how can Mr. Decker explain why HE himself has managed to elude these killers for so many years? Because if what he professes to be true in the book, you'd think the leaders of the Mormon Church would have profound reasons for wanting him in particular done away with... It is utterly ridiculous to even assume that could possibly be true.<br />I heard once that Mr. Decker actually doesn't even believe that God exists, and that he thinks that White's are superior to Blacks, Asians and Latinos.  It may sound crass, but that's what I HEARD...  As you can see, as long as someone believes something that ISN'T true, that doesn't make it true.  Just because Decker says one thing, it certainly doesn't make it a fact.  What constantly amazes me is the comments from those who are not members of the LDS Church who 'claim' that those who are believe certain things, and the reason why the 'average' member wouldn't know it is because only the 'higher-up's' have access to that information.  Then how on EARTH do THESE people manage to get a hold of such classified information?  I don't go off and tell Catholics what THEY believe, and if I wanted to know more clearly I certainly wouldn't go to Southern Baptist to find out more, I'd go to the SOURCE.  Likewise I wouldn't go to a Mormon to find out what a Baptist believes.  Do you see the connection here?  I know of several 'former' members of the LDS Church who may not be on perfect terms with the Church, but even THEY have admitted that 'The Godmakers' is rubbish.<br />Let's face it, Mr. Decker was deemed an exile from the Church he found so dear to him because of his OWN sins (adultery--I'd LOVE for Decker to actually admit that this was true--because it IS) and to get back at them he went on his own personal crusade against the Church and those who kicked him out.  It says a lot about 'The Godmakers' that the international organization of Churches has itself denounced it as an IN-accurate portrayal of the LDS religion.  These are people that ARE NOT members of the Mormon Church, that have NOTHING to gain by saying that, denouncing the book...I think that speaks volumes.  Hey, I'm NOT trying to convert ANYONE to the LDS faith. If you are comfortable being whatever you are, I am truly happy with you.  I do NOT condemn you do Hell or any other place, because as you might know, that ISN'T MY CALL.  That is between YOU and God.  If more people would spend their time building up others and spreading GOOD rather than tearing others down for selfish reasons, I think the world would be a MUCH happier place.  Now I realize that by making that statement that I might look like a hypocrite, and I truly apologize for those who may believe I am trying to tear down Mr. Decker.  But my purpose isn't to make him look bad, it's to educate those who might actually BELIEVE what he has written.  Like I said, just because he is a 'former' member of the LDS Church doesn't mean that what he writes is right.  Anymore than if I claimed that Mr. Decker had actually at one time undergone a sex-change operation make it true.  Do your OWN investigation, and do it with someone who KNOWS and make an informed decision YOURSELF, don't fall into the trap of letting others make it FOR you..  Likewise I wouldn't go to a Mormon to find out what a Baptist believes.  Do you see the connection here?  I know of several 'former' members of the LDS Church who may not be on perfect terms with the Church, but even THEY have admitted that 'The Godmakers' is rubbish.<br />Let's face it, Mr. Decker was deemed an exile from the Church he found so dear to him because of his OWN sins (adultery--I'd LOVE for Decker to actually admit that this was true--because it IS) and to get back at them he went on his own personal crusade against the Church and those who kicked him out.  It says a lot about 'The Godmakers' that the international organization of Churches has itself denounced it as an IN-accurate portrayal of the LDS religion.  These are people that ARE NOT members of the Mormon Church, that have NOTHING to gain by saying that, denouncing the book...I think that speaks volumes.  Hey, I'm NOT trying to convert ANYONE to the LDS faith. If you are comfortable being whatever you are, I am truly happy with you.  I do NOT condemn you do Hell or any other place, because as you might know, that ISN'T MY CALL.  That is between YOU and God.  If more people would spend their time building up others and spreading GOOD rather than tearing others down for selfish reasons, I think the world would be a MUCH happier place.  Now I realize that by making that statement that I might look like a hypocrite, and I truly apologize for those who may believe I am trying to tear down Mr. Decker.  But my purpose isn't to make him look bad, it's to educate those who might actually BELIEVE what he has written.  Like I said, just because he is a 'former' member of the LDS Church doesn't mean that what he writes is right.  Anymore than if I claimed that Mr. Decker had actually at one time undergone a sex-change operation make it true.  Do your OWN investigation, and do it with someone who KNOWS and make an informed decision YOURSELF, don't fall into the trap of letting others make it FOR you.	2000-11-16
US	47950934	R29G71FIGX473B	0812570693	709703711	Brotherhood of the Wolf (The Runelords, Book Two)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Pretty darned good--no matter WHAT anyone else says	On a whim, I actually wrote to David Farland to ask him WHY I should read 'The Runelords'.  Believe it or not, he wrote me back--that very day.  I was taken by surprise to say the least, and honored that he would take the time to encourage me to read his stuff.  Well, long story short, I DID read 'The Runelords' and enjoyed it VERY much.  I was completely enthralled with the magic that Farland had developed in 'The Runelords'.  To actually be able to transfer wit, brawn, sight and metabolism from one person to another was an incredibly gifted and original idea for a fantasy series.  It was all that and more, a LOT more. Once you accept these particular benefits from another person, it sometimes leaves them barely able to breathe on their own, you MUST take care of them, for if THEY die, you lose that attribute.  They become your dedicates.<br />Now we find that our villain, Raj Ahten has the attributes of a good number of people...maybe as many as 20,000 of them.  What it basically means is that Raj is one baaad dude.  As close to being impossible to defeat as a human can get.  Although he loses a battle at the end of 'The Runelords' he is far from giving up, nor is he even close to being defeated.<br />In 'Brotherhood' Farland introduces us to several new characters (my favorite being the Reavers and the Green woman) and gives us yet another problem rarely (if ever) broached in this particular genre: The good guys AND the bad guys have another potentially BIGGER fish to fry and worry about, The Reavers.  Now these boys are realllllly baaaaad.  Newly crowned Earth King, Gaborn Val Orden sees the ONLY way to prevail against the Reavers is to band together with Raj Ahten...a prospect that Raj isn't too happy about agreeing with...even if it means his ENTIRE army being totally decimated.  What to do, what to do...?  Farland handles the story with finesse and brings us along for the ride with a truly original fantasy world that is every bit as fun as anything else in print today (it might not be as intellectual as George R.R. Martins series right now, but then again, NOBODY is close to him in THAT respect).  I look for an enjoyable ride when I hop aboard the fantasy train, and I am happy to say that David Farland's 2nd foray into the world of fantasy is every bit as fun as the 1st.  Don't let the bad reviews hinder you from a truly original storyline that is as fun as it is exciting.  Farland has written us the gift, and all we need to do is pick it up, unwrap it and enjoy.print today (it might not be as intellectual as George R.R. Martins series right now, but then again, NOBODY is close to him in THAT respect).  I look for an enjoyable ride when I hop aboard the fantasy train, and I am happy to say that David Farland's 2nd foray into the world of fantasy is every bit as fun as the 1st.  Don't let the bad reviews hinder you from a truly original storyline that is as fun as it is exciting.  Farland has written us the gift, and all we need to do is pick it up, unwrap it and enjoy.	2000-11-16
US	47950934	R3BW09YVPGMZJ9	0440213525	282981210	The Client	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun legal-thriller 'Light'	I enjoyed 'The Client' very much...but it was far from literature.  I read this book when it first came out I think 6 or 7 years ago, and after having just finished 'The Pelican Brief' (one of my favorite Grisham novels) I was high on the legal thriller genre and couldn't seem to get enough.  The characterization of Mark Sway was pretty good, but he seems a little too cocky for my taste.  What really made 'The Client' worthwhile for me was attorney Reggie Love.  Grisham infuses more life into this particular character than he has in all of the characters in his previous 3 novels--combined.  A remarkable sense of humor (I actually laughed out loud several times) and just a feeling of 'I LIKE this lawyer!'  If I ever had any kind of legal battles to fight, I certainly wish there was a Reggie Love I could have access too.<br />The ensuing problems that Mark &amp; Reggie encounter with the mafia boy who is desperate to find Mark and see to it that he never EVER confirms the location of a certain Senator who was killed is what propels 'The Client' on to an enjoyable climax.  Grisham has written a cross between 'The Fugitive' and a compelling episode of Perry Mason--okay not the greatest example, but suffice it to say that it comes across as fun.  I said that this is 'legal-thriller light' mostly because it was more of a formula-style adventure action novel than an outright legal thriller.  One thing is for certain, this book had me turning pages fast and furious to find out the eventual sugar-coated conclusion, which isn't bad, but predictable.	2000-11-15
US	47950934	R25BXARBEQ3NQ9	034538184X	560190760	Degree of Guilt	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Now THIS is what we call a Courtroom THRILLER!	My first outing with Richard North Patterson, and still ranks as one of my favorite of the genre.  Once you get into it, and I understand this great story isn't a locomotive with no brakes at the beginning...but BELIEVE ME, it DOES get there.  Our characters are likeable, but not without their faults.  Christopher Paget is called to defend his former 'girlfriend' and Mother to his son in a murder charge which has just a ton of evidence that SHOWS us that she actually DID it...but if you are a reader of legal-thrillers, you KNOW that what the author wants you to know about and what actually happens at the end of the book are two entirely different things, right?  'Degree of Guilt' is NO exception here.  Everything ISN'T as it seems--at first. But even as new evidence is unearthed that helps the defendant, she STILL looks guilty.  IS she?  I'm gonna let you find out the answer for that one yourself.  'Degree of Guilt' has some of THE BEST courtroom scenes I've read to date.  It's obvious that Mr. Patterson was an honest-to-goodness lawyer, and he uses his skills very well here.  I'll warn you of a BIG bombshell that Mary reveals to Christopher that kinda took me by surprise, it doesn't affect the outcome of the trial, but let's just say it gives the story a different twist.  Also, this novel is a great lead-in for Patterson's next FANTASTIC courtroom whodunnit: 'Eyes Of A Child' a partial sequel to this book, and in MY opinion even BETTER.  Legal thrillers can be some of the most compelling books out there, because let's face it:  NOTHING could be more dramatic than one person fighting for their life in a murder trial.  Patterson truly IS one of the better writers of this particular genre out there and 'Degree of Guilt' is one of his very best books.  VERY worthwhile.	2000-11-15
US	47950934	R17NYNKJL267OI	0345386132	673212239	Eyes of a Child	Books	5	29	30	N	N	One of THE best legal-thrillers you could possibly read	First off if you have picked up 'Eyes of a Child' and haven't read 'Degree of Guilt' go get it NOW.  'Eyes' is a partial sequel and even though it can stand on its own, it makes more sense if you have first read 'Degree' and besides, you don't want to miss out on another great read, too now do you?  Okay with that said, 'Eyes' is FIRST RATE!  Not just a legal-thriller, but a fantastic 'Whodunnit' as well.  In fact we begin with a murder. Then jump to a cozy vacation with Christopher Paget and his former legal secretary.  It is HER husband who get's the axe at the beginning.  Does Christopher have anything to do with this murder?  Why had he visited the deceased before leaving town quickly?  Why did he donate the suit he wore when making this visit suddenly to a used clothing store?  He looks more and more guilty as the pages fly, but as usual, things are not always as they seem.  I have noticed a pattern with Mr. Patterson's books and that is for him to set the stage in the novel, and then we time travel back to events which happened to either set the stage for the situations we find ourselves in or to just give you an idea of WHY certain characters act the way they do.  It is always important to the story, so do NOT let it distract you, it will ALL make sense in the end.  Compelling is one word I would use to describe this great story.  Although I had the culprit nailed long before the ending came, I wasn't 100% certain until it finally WAS revealed.  I turned this one over to my wife and made her a convert to Patterson's books as well.  This guy writes better than average legal-thrillers and a supreme step above Grishams stuff in MY opinion, too.  If you wanna spend a weekend huddled in a reading room with a novel that will keep you vastly entertained for the entire duration of the book, 'Eyes of a Child' is definitely the prescription you are looking for.	2000-11-15
US	47950934	R2S77NB3UJY3YN	0553566032	802019544	The Scorpio Illusion: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Poor Ludlum is falling deeper into his own cliches...	I am a fanatical follower of Robert Ludlum.  There was at one time I believe that NOBODY on the face of God's green earth who could compete with his sheer creative power to write a thriller of epic size.  Sad to say however, as in all things, a good thing can't always last forever.  Now that isn't to say that 'The Scorpio Illusion' wouldn't stand up to just about any OTHER spy/thriller out there, it's just that after so many years, Ludlum seems to be re-telling the same story in a different setting here.  I can't put my finger on it, but suffice it to say there was something oddly familiar at the heart of this book that reminded me of at least two other Ludlum stories.  With that said, Ludlum STILL manages to keep the pace flowing at amazing speed and kept me turning the pages to find out what was going to happen next.  For MY money, the all-time greatest spy/thriller novels came from Ludlum in the 70's and 80's.  But if you are a Ludlum fan, pick this one up anyway, it's still really good.	2000-11-14
US	47950934	R2EGE39SYV677J	0061057088	340285120	Voyage	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Don't ya just WISH it had ACTUALLY happened??	I am relatively new to the world of Stephen Baxter, and I picked a pretty good book to start off my getting to know him, I think. 'Voyage' is not so much science fiction as it is a novel of alternate history, a history I might add actually COULD have happened had NASA made a few better choices in the 70's.  There are few moments that I was more proud to be an American than when watching Armstrong &amp; Aldrin walk on the surface of the moon, and I KNOW that feeling would return if we made that leap and went out to mars.<br />'Voyage' gives us several point-of-view's regarding this undertaking.  First off, Kennedy survived his assassination attempt, but sustained a severe injury.  We also get the view of the astronauts as they BEGIN the mission in the present, while the rest of the novel skips around to the politics surrounding just WHO will be the first humans on another planet, HOW we'll manage to pay for such a tremendous undertaking and the most important question: just HOW will we be able to pull it all off? Serious questions arise.  Methods are tried, some fail, some do not, but it all seems pretty risky--and some even die in the pursuit of an experimental rocket that turns out to be less than reliable.<br />This is how it COULD have happened.  I wish it had.  I wish it WOULD.  But by the time that eventually happens, most of us might be long gone.  Maybe a trip back to the moon would be more appropriate at this point.  All I know is that 'Voyage' made me<br />think a LOT about the space race and where will we be going next should we actually TRY to go ANYWHERE.  Fantastic space opera and I honestly believe the reality of this story is almost unheard of in this day and age.  The science holds up and even though it's a bit dated because of the time the novel takes place, it just add's to the realism this novel develops throughout.  Great story and an even better idea of 'What If?'	2000-11-14
US	47950934	R3FUL8VTVZU5KK	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Builds to a satisfying climax	Not my first Grisham book, but better than his first outing with 'A Time To Kill'.  This one took a totally different ride than his 1st book, too.  More imaginative, and no matter how outlandish a firm of lawyers run by mafia men might be, it sure did make for entertaining reading.<br />Mitch McDeere is fresh out of law school, not doing all that well financially, but he IS being courted by several law firms who believe he has great potential.  He finally settles on a firm in Memphis that has a tiny little secret that he only finds out after almost passing the point of no return.  A few too many of his co-workers suddenly and mysteriously turn up dead, and if Mitch wants to avoid an untimely demise of similar situations, what he needs to do is keep his big mouth shut and just move on like everything is hunky-dory.  His office is bugged...his HOME is bugged, so is his car...his every move is being watched, recorded and manipulated to make him commit to the firm--for LIFE.  But on top of all this is the FBI's casual connection. They carefully contact Mitch and inform him of his Firm's nasty little secret and work very hard to get him to work for them. Mitch is very aware that by doing so, he's putting himself and his wife in serious danger.  HOW do you get OUT of a situation like this?  I have to admit, I asked that question several times as this plot not just took off, but was launched into motion. From the Grand Cayman Islands to Washington D.C. 'The Firm' is a unique view of law and it's potential pitfalls.  Grisham is far from being the best author that this genre has to offer, but he HAS written a few really compelling and most of all, entertaining legal-thrillers, and 'The Firm' is definitely one OF them.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R20S57WXJ6I4SV	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Talk about a GREAT Whodunnit!!	Let me start off by saying that I absolutely DESPISE books written in first person...however I LOVED 'Rising Sun' BECAUSE it WAS written that way.  Once again, a little different than what I had read before by Chrichton, easily one of my all-time favorite authors.  I'm beginning to think that he can write a book in almost ANY genre and make it as good as ANYONE.  <br />I am a BIG fan of muder/mysteries, and kinda felt as I began 'Rising Sun' that Chrichton might be in over his head with a storyline like this...but let me say that I was wrong...oh sooo wrong.  Let me also say right here that IF you had seen yet another embarassing adaptation of a Chrichton book-to-movie like 'Rising Sun' was, you will be in for a pretty big surprise.  As I watched the movie, I kept wondering WHO was behind this tortuous waste of time...?  But at LEAST I knew who the killer was...but wait-a-minute!  They changed EVEN THAT in the movie! Don't even bother.  This story is VERY timely even today, and despite it's anti-Japanese undertones, I couldn't help but be impressed with the pacing of this incredibly fun story.  It takes the Japanese literal thought of 'Business is war' and gives us a reason to figure out why their country has come to dominate the World Economy so quickly since the mid 70's.  This book isn't so much a book against the Japanese as it is a wake-up call to American's that if we don't want them to own so much of our country, STOP SELLING IT.  All in all another home run for Chrichton.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R3KIAKJ3I7A2I0	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Yet ANOTHER winner by Chrichton!	If you saw the incredible embarassment that was the theatrical version of 'Congo' you MAY be UN-interested in reading the book version...but let me tell you that the movie was a joke by comparison.  I had high hopes that they might actually get this one right, but once again I was disappointed (I can't remember the last time I was impressed with the movie-version of ANY novel).<br />Chrichton KNOWS how to write a thriller...IF you have treated yourself to any of his other books you know what I'm talking about.  'Congo' is no exception.  From a lost city in Africa to a gorilla who understands sign-language and paints remarkable representations of this lost city...  Sure it's totally unrealistic, but what Chrichton does BEST is give us a scenario wherein we begin to wonder whether or not it actually COULD happen.  A city populated by gorillas that KNOW how to kill, and DO.  It's not as unbelievable as you might think.  Once again, when this novel came out, Chrichton was at the head of the class as far as technology goes, and even though it seems dated in that particular sense, remember 'Congo' was printed in 1980.  When I first read 'Disclosure' I recall his talking about this new way of communicating over computers called, 'e-mail' and it seemed totally foreign to me THEN, but I certainly am aware of it today. NOBODY mixes technology into a fast-moving almost plausible thriller as well as Chrichton does, and if you'll excuse the references to things which we might consider hopelessly outdated today, this book is going to offer you a fantastic ride...TRUST me.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R2VLJ23K38A6KO	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A GREAT story!	After reading the phenomenally fun 'Jurassic Park' I picked up a copy of 'Disclosure' the instant I saw it...and when I got home and read the inside cover and found out that Chrichton had traded in all the techno-talk that had filled his other great stories ('Sphere' 'Congo' &amp; 'Jurassic Park' to name a few) for a story of all things, sexual harassment!  And to top it off, it was a story of a MAN being harassed by a WOMAN!  I was skeptical to say the least of this storyline, but I trusted that Chrichton wouldn't disappoint me...and in this he never did.<br />Our main guy wakes up in the morning as happy as anyone could possibly be because he is getting to go to work in Seattle and accept the promotion he so very much deserves...but doesn't get. He notices a very big change in how everyone treats him when he arrives (because they already know) and yet the worst is yet to come.  Not only did he NOT get the promotion, it actually goes to his one of his former girlfriends who is in NO WAY as qualified, and up until this morning, wasn't even working at the same place.  It really comes as quite a shock.  But the worst is yet to come.  His 'new' boss invites him to her office rather late at night, and after some awkward moments, they next begin a little naughty stuff...but Tom breaks it off before it goes too far.  However this isn't what Meredith wants...and then she makes some threats, pretty BIG threats to Tom for stopping before she get's what she wanted.  Tom goes home and tries very hard to hide his guilt from his wife and manages to thwart a potential problem at home, but the next day at work he finds out that Meredith has filed a complaint against him for harassment. Tom quickly finds his normally dull life somewhat more exciting than he ever thought it could possibly get.  Not only does he miss out on a promotion that was rightfully his, he now faces legal action for something he is totally innocent of, but how do you prove something like that against a woman who just received YOUR job?  If you saw the movie (which wasn't all that bad considering how truly terrible 'Congo' was) read this anyway, the way Tom ends up pulling out from under this seemingly impossible situation is pretty amazing AND mighty entertaining as well.  Chrichton quickly won me over with an engrossing story that was the first to introduce me to that new-fangled way of communicating called, 'e-mail' (if you had read the book when it 1st came out, it would've sounded pretty new back then...).who just received YOUR job?  If you saw the movie (which wasn't all that bad considering how truly terrible 'Congo' was) read this anyway, the way Tom ends up pulling out from under this seemingly impossible situation is pretty amazing AND mighty entertaining as well.  Chrichton quickly won me over with an engrossing story that was the first to introduce me to that new-fangled way of communicating called, 'e-mail' (if you had read the book when it 1st came out, it would've sounded pretty new back then...).	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R3QUZEKLN92Y29	0451180518	56275104	Attack of the Seawolf	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A true Submarine Masterpiece!	Cheers to Michael DiMercurio!  'Attack of the Seawolf' is everything a naval/sub/techno/thriller ought to be.  It reads almost like an 'on scene' report from those caught in the middle of this amazing tale of action, heroism and suspense.  There can be nothing at all like the feeling of being inside a sub trying to escape the enemy.  DiMercurio does a fantastic job of putting us right in the middle of all the action and supreme suspense.<br />What if an American sub was caught INSIDE Chinese waters spying? Would we distance ourselves and pretend it never happened, or play it off as a rogue sub captain acting on his own?  Good question, but that is exactly what DiMercurio does with 'Seawolf' and boy does he give us a frighteningly realistic version of 'what if' here.  I view Pacino as and extension of the author himself.  A character that is more than 2-dimensional.  Very realisitic, and one not without his problems, too.  Struggling between problems at home, and duty to his country Pacino is faced with an amazing situation where he must rescue a sub in enemy territory under impossible conditions.  Some of the scenes read as way too impossible to believe, but you know what?  DiMercurio is doing such a good job at creating the suspense so thick you just don't care.  You suspend your belief just long enough for him to pull you along for the fantastic ride that is 'Attack of the Seawolf'.  I have long considered this his best book, and it was interesting to note that DiMercurio feels the same, as evidenced in his comments at the top of the page.  Good stuff from a first-rate author, and heir to the crown originated by Clancy in 'Red October'.  Give this a shot and enjoy, and come back for more, DiMercurio has written many other great sub novels.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R2INW96YG3DUIW	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Next to 'The Partner' this is Grishams best.	Fresh after finishing 'The Firm' I had my wife pick up a copy of 'The Pelican Brief' and began to devour it as quickly as I could. It didn't take long to be captured by the character of Darby and her innocent way of life.  We find out that quite by accident, Darby writes a 'brief' that quickly catches the attention of someone--WHO exactly that 'someone' is, well it takes a while to find that one out.  It also takes a little while to figure out exactly what is IN the 'brief' to begin with.  Now I am NOT a lawyer and it was a little high on techno-babble from a legal standpoint, but basically Darby makes a total assumption about some land in Louisiana, and it turns out to be right on the money: a plausible explanation of the deaths of two members of the Supreme Court.  More than plausible, she is 100% right, which is when she get's the attention of those who would rather see the author of this mysterious 'brief' silenced.  Darby is suddenly on the run, wondering whether or not her next move will be her last.  Paranoid and terrified beyond words, Darby makes a desperate move and contacts a Washington Post reporter in hopes of convincing him of her story.  It takes some doing, but he eventually comes around to her side, and this is where life becomes really interesting for Darby and her journalist friend. I have to say one thing about the movie version, Julia Roberts really WAS THE perfect choice to play Darby.  Other than that, don't bother with the movie (as usual), go straight to the bookstore and grab a copy of 'The Pelican Brief' and sit back and enjoy.  Another winner from Grisham.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	RZQIZNEUV39VO	1891620088	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story Of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Absolutely STUNNING--and TRUE!	As an avid 'techno-thriller' reader, I was drawn to this book mostly because I thought it was fiction...but nope.  It reads as one amazing adventure after another, and all are documented and 100% true, which makes them even more incredible.<br />One of the more facinating stories in this great book was the story of one sub in particular that made the wrong move at the wrong time north of Japan and was caught by a Russian naval force that dropped depth charges on it endlessly and wouldn't<br />allow it to surface.  Now before the perfection of nuclear subs, the old one's had to surface regularly to 'snorkle' and exchange the bad air which had built up over time with fresh air.  At the time this sub was identified, they were due to snorkle, but were kept from doing so for fear the Russians would sink them when they were most vulnerable.  These poor sailers were stuck inside a death trap.  Either they would be sunk, or they'd die over time due to lack of fresh air.  Talk about drama!  They say that truth IS stranger than fiction, and in the case of the underwater game of cat &amp; mouse during the cold war, the truth is downright incredible!  American sub's sneaking into hostile waters and tapping into underwater communications cables used by Russia, right under their noses!  I was totally amazed at what 'really' happened with the use of submarines during the cold war.  From having to locate the accidental droping of a 'live' H-Bomb dropped in the Medeterranean before the Russians picked it up to the probable loss of the USS Scorpion and her entire crew, this is a nail-biter of the 1st degree.  Truly stunning!  It made me wonder about the stories they DIDN'T tell, or COULDN'T. You KNOW that we haven't heard the rest of the story, but I am fervently hoping that one day we will.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R2OE0N1IY9M5PK	0451403924	657094727	Voyage of the Devilfish	Books	4	8	8	N	N	STUNNING debut by newest member of techno-club	When I first read 'The Hunt For Red October' I was hopelessly attracted to Submarine novels.  Unfortunately Clancy didn't write any more of them.  So I began to search for the heir to the 'sub crown' of moderan naval fiction.  I tried 'Kilo Class' and found it was okay, but not what I was looking for.  I then found Mark Joseph who has written two exceptional submarine novels ('To Kill The Potemkin' &amp; 'Typhoon') and patiently waited for his 3rd...but it never arrived.  Out of pure luck I discovered Michael DiMercurio and picked up 'Voyage of the Devilfish' and THAT is when I discoverd the heir to Clancy's  (sub) throne.<br />I have YET to be disappointed with ANY of the books by this author.  You COULD read them all in whatever order you choose because they stand alone, but I recommend you read them in order because he just keeps getting better.  The main reason why these books are so realisitic is because of DiMercurio's experience as an honest-to-goodness submariner.  With that said, if you enjoyed 'Red October' than you will NOT be disappointed with this guy. His descriptions are first rate, and in some cases, a few sound a little far-fetched, but when I asked a friend of mine who had served on the USS Bluefish how realistic they were, all he said was, &quot;Maybe, maybe not&quot;.  He just wouldn't elaborate.  Kudos to DiMercurio's debut effort, and his subsequent follow-up's are very much worth reading.  If you count yourself a fan of this particular genre (underwater submarine techno-thriller) this guy IS the reigning king in fictional print today.  No joke.  DiMercurio is the real deal.	2000-11-13
US	47950934	R2YDXB4GQC6VB3	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Grisham's BEST by FAR	Having been a Grisham fan ever since a friend introduced me to 'A Time To Kill' years ago, I was eager to get into 'The Partner' but I must admit, after 'The Client' I had been wondering whether or not Grisham had been losing his 'can't miss' status. 'The Chamber' was tedius and let's face it, at times just plain boring.  'The Rainmaker' was better, but not by much.  I was just about to give up on him when I received 'Partner' for Christmas a few years ago, and felt a total charge out of this newest thriller.<br />Not a SINGLE Grisham book takes off as quickly as this one does. This one takes flight virtually from page 1 and stays aloft for the entire story.  Someone told me before I finished it that they enjoyed the book, but felt let down by the ending.  So I sort of prepared myself for a great story that had a lame ending...boy was I SURPRISED!  I LOVED the ending!  Justice is dished out in many different ways, and for me, I felt it was totally appropriate.<br />Why on earth did Patrick Lanigan fake his own death and snatch away millions of dollar's of his Firm's money?  You don't really find out the answer to that until almost the end, and if I were to have any one complaint about this book, it was that Grisham got me SO INTERESTED in the WHY all that happened that I wanted to know the answer, I NEEDED to have the answer.  The fact that he could get me to wanting to know the answer just kept me going that much more than his previous novels had.  MUCH more compelling than ANYTHING else he has done before, and a LOT different, too.  So much so that I wondered on more than one occasion if 'Partner' was even written BY Grisham...not that I do not have faith in him to write such a great story, but it really is a change from anything else (in MY opinion) he had produced up to this point.<br />As far as legal thrillers go, I believe that there are a LOT of other authors who do the genre much better than Grisham does (namely Richard North Patterson, Steve Martini &amp; Phillip Margolin) but 'The Partner' stands with the best of any of these other guys.  Simply put, the Best novel Grisham has written by FAR.mp; Phillip Margolin) but 'The Partner' stands with the best of any of these other guys.  Simply put, the Best novel Grisham has written by FAR.	2000-11-10
US	47950934	R1OH8DXDCEIQLY	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Believe-it-or-not--even BETTER than the 1st Bourne book...	I rejoiced when I first heard that Ludlum had taken on the daunting task of writing a sequel to one of his all-time best novels--but I was wary of whether or not it'd be as good.  I rolled the dice and I came out a winner.<br />SOMEONE is doing a number of murders in the Far East...calling himself Jason Bourne.  It sends chills up the spines of many people...especially those who know it ISN'T Jason Bourne because HE never existed...  SOMEONE is trying to accomplish something, but WHAT it is, well that of course is where all the fun of this novel is--in finding out just exactly WHAT and more importantly: WHO.<br />From the very heart of China, to Hong Kong this is a drag race to the finish line using a rocket to propel it along at an amazing pace.  Ludlum IS the master of suspense and intrigue, and in 'The Bourne Supremacy' he is at the top of his form--again.  As much as I enjoyed 'Identity' and felt it couldn't be topped, I have to say 'Supremacy' was even BETTER.  As far as the last volume in the series goes, ('The Bourne Ultimatum') sad to say, but that one was my least favorite, and yet even IT was still a great book.<br />Fans of Ludlum cannot be considered REAL fans unless you have read ALL of his 'Bourne' books, and this is one to savor.  When it first came out in 1986 I bought it immediately and wrapped myself in it's incredible plot.  I decided not long ago that I'd see if it stood the test of time and picked it up again.  I am happy to say it is every bit as good the 2nd time around, and don't worry, it really DOES stand the test of time.  Ludlum really IS the BEST THERE IS when it comes to spy/thrillers, and 'The Bourne Supremacy', Ludlum really IS SUPREME.	2000-11-10
US	47950934	R21GMUZAROZOWO	0553260944	263261251	The Chancellor Manuscript: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great story of 'What If?'	Every day some of us ask the question: 'What IF?'  Well in 'The Chancellor Manuscript' Ludlum has a pretty big 'What If' on his hands, and it turns out to be quite a fun question to ask, too. What if J. Edgar Hoover didn't die a natural death, but was cleverly done away with...?<br />As it turns out, we stumble on this situation quite by accident. You see, Peter Chancellor comes up with a great premise for a fictional book he plans to write.  Guess what the plot is?  What if Hoover was knocked off instead of going naturally?  From here Peter, like any good author, begins to do some credible research before embarking upon his chore of writing--but as he digs he begins to uncover some startling revelations...maybe he really WAS killed after all...  NOBODY can devise a plot that is filled SO completely and move it at the pace that Ludlum could do in his prime, and 'The Chancellor Manuscript' definitely is Ludlum at the peak of his amazing craft.  Just bloody good fun.	2000-11-10
US	47950934	R3QOJO79JED8K5	0553260197	668598440	The Holcroft Covenant: A Novel	Books	5	23	23	N	N	PROMISE yourself you will read this book!	What would happen if in the final stages of WWII, high ranking Nazi officials who knew the 3rd Reich was about to collapse, made a bold move and set the wheels in motion to begin the 4th Reich...but not for a very long time...  Sounds interesting, huh? It IS.<br />I read this book many years ago, and recently I began the joyful task of re-reading all of my favorite Ludlum novels, mostly because I was in a slump and couldn't find anything that grabbed my interest--but also because I remembered how much I truly enjoyed these books and was curious as to whether or not I would like them as much all these years later.  One of my favorites was 'The Holcroft Covenant' and I have to admit, this one kept me on the edge of my sofa for several days as I absorbed this great conspiracy-theory book for the 2nd time.<br />Noel Holcroft is unwittingly a part of this global project, even though he despises everything the Nazi's stood for.  He realizes over time that what is to be set in motion is farther reaching than he thought was even possible.  How could it be that an organization as hated as the Nazi's rise again?  The answer to WHO is supporting the rise of the 4th Reich is shocking to say the least--and for the reader, immensely entertaining.<br />Let me warn you right away, for those who are hoping for the usual Ludlum launch of action from beginning to end, this might come as a bit of a let-down.  He sets the stage early on, but takes his time building to the climax (which is most satisfying). The tension grows gradually, and as the conspiracies grow and multiply, so does the action and suspense.  Give it a shot, and DON'T give up too soon.  I promise you that as the plot unfolds, you WILL be happy to took the journey.  I echo the thoughts of another reviewer, as I read 'The Apocalypse Watch' I couldn't help but wonder whether or not it was a sequel of some kind to 'Covenant'--but not as good.  It has been said that Ludlum's earliest work was his best, and I have to agree.  Not much that has come off the presses in the 90's has been nearly as suspenseful as what he produced in the late 70's and 80's. TRUST me, if you can pick up his early work and end up NOT finishing it, you either have NO attention span, or you just dislike good fiction, 'cuz that is what Ludlum produces: GOOD FICTION (VERY good stuff indeed).  'The Holcroft Covenant' is a hum-dinger and really fun to boot.  The ending really IS worth the journey.ee.  Not much that has come off the presses in the 90's has been nearly as suspenseful as what he produced in the late 70's and 80's. TRUST me, if you can pick up his early work and end up NOT finishing it, you either have NO attention span, or you just dislike good fiction, 'cuz that is what Ludlum produces: GOOD FICTION (VERY good stuff indeed).  'The Holcroft Covenant' is a hum-dinger and really fun to boot.  The ending really IS worth the journey.	2000-11-10
US	47950934	R8M2XJF7ER0HD	0553287737	202706560	The Bourne Ultimatum (Bourne Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Great stuff...but not as good as the other 2 Bourne books...	The idea that Carlos wants a final, no-holds-barred show-down with David Webb aka Jason Bourne was too irresistable to refuse. Ludlum has himself another winner with 'The Bourne Ultimatum'...however, with that said, I didn't think it was as good as either 'The Bourne Identity' OR 'The Bourne Supremacy'. Was it a wham-bam-thankyou-ma'am full-velocity thriller?  You BET!<br />For those who believe that 'Ultimatum' is the best of the 'Bourne' trilogy, I mean no disrespect, I just enjoyed the other two more (especially 'Supremacy').  I can't put my finger on it, but suffice it to say, I STILL came away from this one in awe of Ludlum's pure and natural skill to keep us enthralled at length (this is not a tiny novel).  David Webb has got to be Ludlum's greatest character.  Fully realized, with problems, and something many characters do NOT have in modern fiction: A Conscience (albeit a thin one when he assumes the Jason Bourne Identity...).  This one took you on a mental trip to many places in the world, from America to Russia...all in the name of finally capturing Carlos the Jackal.  The showdown really is a hum-dinger.  Enjoy every moment of this one, I don't think Ludlum will be reprising the character ever again.  Oh, and if you have yet to pick up one of these fantastic books, you are in for a real treat--a series of books that were written between the late 70's through the late 80's, and JUST as timely as when they first came out.  Simply put, great stuff from a great author.	2000-11-10
US	47950934	R58HX9GWKHJQY	0345388771	383851428	Primal Fear	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Legal action AND a great THRILLER to boot!	I'm gonna tell you right now, the last line of this book alone is worth the purchase price (and a lot more).  I was left thinking about this book long after I finished it.  TRUST me, if you saw the movie version, you will be forever disappointed with how they twisted it for whatever reasons to make it NOWHERE NEAR as good as it could and should have been.<br />Aaron Stampler is a FANTASTIC character, not 2-dimensional like so many in popular fiction today.  Fully realized, and VERY complex.  IS he guilty?  Does he really have multiple personalities?  OR is he a genius PRETENDING to be a somewhat backwards inbred mountain outcast?  These questions will be raised and it won't be until the INCREDIBLE conclusion on the VERY LAST PAGE that you will be treated to one of my all-time favorite endings.<br />'Primal Fear' ranks as one of my favorite books, and after you finish it, I'm sure you will agree that it deserved all of the praise it received.  I have to admit, the following sequels to 'Primal Fear' just didn't do it for me.  I tried, honest to goodness I TRIED to enjoy them as much, but it didn't happen. And if someone tells you that one of the sequel's are BETTER than 'Primal' DON'T BELIEVE IT.  If you count yourself a fan of John Grisham, Steve Martini, Richard North Patterson or MY personal favorite legal thriller author: Phillip Margolin do yourself a supreme favor and pick this amazing thriller up and devour it TODAY.	2000-11-09
US	47950934	R1T7FCZ69EACTV	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just about as good as it gets!	After devouring 'The Bourne Identity' and confessing myself a die-hard Ludlum fan-for-life I picked up 'The Materese Circle' and found myself absorbed in a cold-war spy-thriller that is second to none.  First we've got the order of the Materese, beginning very long ago with origins that seem to have been orchestrated by the devil himself...next we've got two spies, an American and a Russian, both with SUPREME reasons to hate one another...yet it's a classic example of two enemies who must<br />work together in order to solve a global conspiracy that threatens much more than even those in the know fully realize. From Russia to France to America, 'The Materese Circle' is truly a masterpiece of intrigue and suspense.  A novel by which ALL other spy novels SHOULD be judged by.  In MY humble opinion, it tied with 'The Bourne Supremacy' as my FAVORITE Ludlum novel. Don't worry about it holding up over time, either.  Many cold-war era spy-novels just break down over time and seem oddly out of place, but NOT this one.  Ludlum in his prime was THE best adventure/thriller/spy novelist there was--bar none.  'The Materese Circle' showcases his amazing talent to capture your attention in a perfect way.  Read it, enjoy and come back for more Ludlum stuff soon (I KNOW you will...).	2000-11-09
US	47950934	R2IH2TFS2AFVY9	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A true MASTERPIECE	I just want to write an additional echo to those that have already been written here.  I can't think of ANY book I've read in the past 5 years that will stay with me like 'A Game of Thrones' will.  Pure talent went into the writing of this book. For those expecting to read a fantasy on the heels of Terry Brooks, or Jordan or any number of novels in print these days beware: this book couldn't possibly be more different.  Magic isn't obvious.  Resolutions to problems are not neatly wrapped<br />in a package to put a smile on our face at the end of the book. Major characters may or may not meet an untimely demise.  Those who you previously thought were good guys may turn out to be as bad as they come.  In short, EXPECT the UNEXPECTED.  Go ahead and just TRY to predict what is going to happen.  I can almost guarantee you'll be wrong (if you end up right, you might wanna try looking into becoming one of those 1-900 Psychics...).  All of the traditional 'ideas' we have come to expect in a novel are thrown out the window with 'A Game of Thrones'.  Nothing is as it seems.  And expect a grand ride on a roller-coaster of pure adrenaline.  Simply put THE GREATEST Fantasy series in print today, and quite possibly the best of all-time.  I LOVED this book, I can't say it any more plain than that.  And as you can see from other's who have reviewed this book, I am NOT alone.	2000-11-09
US	47950934	R2SDEE9PI26W0N	034537536X	334108134	Show of Evil	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great book, but not as good as 'Primal Fear'	After riding the roller-coaster of a lifetime while reading 'Primal Fear' I just KNEW I had to get to know William Diehl better.  When I found out that he had written a SEQUEL to one of the (in MY opinion) BEST legal thrillers of the past 20 years I nearly sprained my wrist reaching for my wallet to buy the thing.  I have to say, it's a great 'whodunnit' filled with intrigue and suspense...but was it as good as 'Primal'??  Nope. Diehl raised the bar so high it was almost too high for even HIM to reach a 2nd time, and unfortunately even though this is a great legal murder/mystery, it's just not as good as the incredible 'Primal Fear'.  Yes, this book can stand on it's own even if you haven't read 'Primal'.  However by reading 'Show Of Evil' you may spoil the utterly shocking surprise that comes at the end of 'PF'.  On it's own merits, 'S.of E.' is GREAT.  I in NO WAY wish to say it isn't worth reading.  In fact, if you are a fan of the genre at all, you OWE it to yourself to pick it up and be enthralled.  Unfortunately book #3 (Reign In Hell) falls almost totally flat and nowhere near as entertaining as 'PF' OR 'S.of E.'.  I have to say, the plot in this book really IS cool.	2000-11-09
US	47950934	R2T7WX3C9MLYT	0671519816	129533604	Inca Gold (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good, but not Pitt's greatest adventure...	Let me first say that I am a die-hard Cussler fan.  If his name is ON it, I'll BUY it, sight unseen, no problemo!  I even wrote to Clive and he sent me a page of his hand-corrected manuscript for 'Inca Gold' which I treasure to this day, but let's be honest: this book, even though it's an amazing Pitt adventure, left me wanting a little more.  I don't think I was ever able to put my finger on what exactly 'IT' was, but after reading a 2nd time, I felt the same way.  I LOVED the beginning of 'Inca' and in particular Pitt's escape from the underground cavern, but there just seemed to be something missing.  I'm sorry that I can't be more detailed than that.  With that said, let me now tell you that even though something seemed to be missing, I STILL loved this story.  I THINK my disappointment might have started back at the ending to 'Cyclops'.  If you'll recall, at the end of that Pitt adventure, Dirk hints that one day he would search out the lost city of Gold in South America...well as you can now imagine, after seeing the title, 'Inca Gold' I felt that Clive had finally come around to Dirk going on that promised adventure. Of course this book isn't that at all.  Either way a Dirk Pitt story is always jam-packed with supreme action on every page and a story that never once lag's or falls flat...'Inca Gold' is exactly that and more, a big, grand adventure told with gusto.	2000-11-08
US	47950934	R25S45DPKCPCR5	0671737775	415897523	Iceberg (Dirk Pitt, No. 3)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Another winning adventure for Pitt	How many times has it been said, 'Nobody does it better than Cussler'?  Well novel after terrific novel that holds true in a big way.  This was one of Pitt's earliest adventures (yes, even in his pre-Titanic days he kept busy) and just a winning combination of fun and adventure.  First we've got a great mystery in the ship frozen inside an iceberg, Dirk acting less than manly in one portion of the book (and when I say less than manly, well you just gotta read it to find out how UN-manly he acts) and a show-down inside the Pirates of the Carribbean at Disneyland--what more could you ask for in a book (other than the obvious absence of Giordino)?  From one harrowing cliff-hanger to another, Dirk manages to do his best to pull off the impossible (yet AGAIN) and he does it in style.  On occasion if you'll recall, Dirk goes back to his hanger/home at the airport and it's loaded with his cars, and all kinds of items he's collected over the years...well, if you'll recall his plane and ever wondered where it came from, 'Iceberg' will answer that question for you (that is if you ever HAD that question floating around in your noggin' in the first place...).  All in all this wouldn't be Cussler's most intellectual novel, but I don't read a Pitt adventure to expand my intellect anyway.  I'm looking for pure fun, and that is exactly what 'Iceberg' provided for me. I'm sure it will for you as well.	2000-11-08
US	47950934	R1ZB7HT04U5P78	0440220734	885811913	Area 51	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Pretty fun escape for the weekend	I can't remember all of the reasons why I picked up 'Area 51' and began to read it, but I know now that whatever the reason was, it certainly gave me a thrill ride that I enjoyed, and continue to enjoy through the sequels, some of which are as good, some not as good, and at least one that IS better.  Mike Turcotte finds himself embroiled in a scheme that is so far reaching, it seems as though we may NEVER know the entire story, no matter HOW many 'Area 51' sequels there may be (hey, a little intrigue and questions left un-answered is always fun--at least for ME). What does Easter Island have to do with aliens?  And what does Antarctica have to do with Area 51?  DID aliens in fact visit earth sometime in our history?  If so, what were their objectives?  What did they leave behind?  Did Atlantis actually EXIST??  Some of these questions are answered and more are raised and continue to give new life to the fabled 'Conspiracy Theory' scenario.  As long as you don't take it seriously, this book should award you with a few hours of really fun reading.  Enjoy, and don't forget to grab the books that follow (especially 'The Sphinx')--but remember you HAVE to read them in ORDER otherwise they MAY not make sense.	2000-11-08
US	47950934	R2JO1ZBVXXNZTG	0440234948	418441479	Area 51: The Sphinx	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Indiana Jones Meet's Close Encounters...	This book has SO MANY high points I don't even know where to begin.  The storyline about the Sphinx is truly one of inspiration.  After 'The Mission' I was wondering just where Doherty was taking us, and now that we've found what is under the Sphinx, I think we have an idea...I THINK.  Although not revealing the entire purpose of what is found under the Sphinx, we learn a lot more than we did in 'The Mission'.  The search in South America was an interesting side-note as well.  All in all I felt as though I were reading an off-shoot of an Indiana Jones novel that tried to establish the existence of aliens. Well done, and I have to admit, it left me wanting more.  I anxiously await the next installment.  Give the 'Area 51' series a try, for sci-fi/adventure entertainment I rank it better than average.	2000-11-08
US	47950934	R21QG26DMMEI19	0671534645	177829621	Apollo 13: Lost Moon	Books	5	10	11	N	N	I LOVED this book!	Let me start off by saying that I do NOT understand Orbital Mechanics and Quantum Physics or what Gimbal Lock is...however after reading 'Apollo 13' I felt as though I STILL didn't know... but could fake it if I had to.  I have been utterly fascinated with the moon landings ever since watching TV in '69 and seeing the entire planet rivited on what a couple Americans were doing a quater-million miles away from earth.  It STILL facinates me.<br /><br />This story of the ONLY moon-shot that didn't make it is as dramatic as anything you could possibly read.  I assume most everyone saw the movie (which SHOULD have won Ron Howard an Academy Award for Best Director) and as good as it was, they left out SO MUCH of what ELSE went wrong on that voyage.  After reading I kept thinking, 'Is this an exercise in whatever CAN go wrong WILL go wrong?'  I am SO amazed that these men made it back to earth despite being stuck in a crippled spacecraft with NO possible chance of a rescue mission.  While Apollo 11 was considered one of the monumental accomplishments of humanity, I submit that bringing Apollo 13 successfully BACK home--especially after the devestating explosion it went through--was an even bigger miracle...possibly the greatest achievement of mankind.<br /><br />It really was the collective efforts of hundreds of people that made it all happen. Despite the fact that these men did NOT land on the moon, it really was an incredible story of how a large group of people working together can truly do heroic things.  I encourage ANYONE who found the movie interesting to pick this book up and get a chance to find out the WHOLE story...trust me, there was simply NO WAY to bring it all to the silver screen (not without making it a mini-series anyway) and do it justice.  It's an inspiring and sometimes terrifying tale, even though you KNOW how it all ends.  It gave me even more respect for those who not just gave their life for the chance to explore space, but made me proud to be an American--now I KNOW that sounds cliche, but it's the only way to describe how incredibly amazed I was at this fantastic story.  They say truth IS stranger than fiction, and while this story WASN'T strange, I would have to say it was certainly a LOT more dramatic.  Non-Fiction rarely (if ever) gets any more thrilling and dramatic than this.KNOW that sounds cliche, but it's the only way to describe how incredibly amazed I was at this fantastic story.  They say truth IS stranger than fiction, and while this story WASN'T strange, I would have to say it was certainly a LOT more dramatic.  Non-Fiction rarely (if ever) gets any more thrilling and dramatic than this.	2000-11-07
US	47950934	R30JTCC4KWTJPT	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ryan's GREATEST adventure!	I was a relative late-comer to the techno-world of Tom Clancy... however I made up for it by devouring everything he's written (except for the horrible 'Op Center' and 'Net Force' books that aren't written by Clancy).  It was a daunting task to pick up 'The Sum of All Fears' even though I loved Clancy's books.  But I finally got around to it and found myself totally absorbed by what I consider Clancy's finest writing.<br />It all begins during a skirmish in the Middle East and a plane<br />accidentally dropping an atomic bomb on a farmers field, which doesn't go off, but is left and goes un-noticed for a very long time.<br />Skip ahead a few years and we find that the weapon has finally been discovered, and through an ingenious plot, it's recovered and dismantled to be converted from an atomic bomb into a thermo-nuclear device (an H-Bomb).  These terrorists actually plan on using it outside the Denver Stadium during the Superbowl.  Does it actually explode?  Maybe--I won't tell, besides, finding out is half of the fun of this roller-coaster adventure.<br />Clancy has written such a detailed story that he sets the stage for a small but significant event that happens in the book at nearly the very end of the book, and he does it with a Christmas Tree being shipped to Japan.  As I read this, I wondered how on EARTH Clancy was going to tie a Tree into the story, and well I should've known he was going to, and even though it's a small portion of the book, it is a VERY important part that you cannot gloss over.<br />After re-reading 'The Sum of All Fears' again, I STILL believe it to be my all-time favorite Clancy book, with 'Debt Of Honor' a close 2nd.  All Clancy fans or anyone who just enjoys a great adventure story wrapped around a techno-thriller, this will DEFINITELY fit the bill!	2000-11-07
US	47950934	R1YWY23V6Y6EU9	0140272011	961916975	A Man on the Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE single greatest achievement of man this century...	I have long viewed carrying man from earth to the moon and bringing him safely back as THE single GREATEST achievement this century (and possible of ALL history)...and this book beautifully describes in detail man's race for the moon from the beginning stages to Apollo 17, the last manned lunar visit.  What an amazing accomplishment!  To think that it was all done using technology more than 30 years old is almost impossible to believe.  My digital watch is MORE sophisticated than the (at the time) state-of-the-art on-board computer used to land on the moon.  This is just what our country needs today: something for us to root for, with heroes and those willing to risk their lives (and in some cases die) for a cause they felt was worth the risk. We have so little of that these days, and this amazing saga brought it all back in vivid detail.  The tragedy of Apollo 1 on the launch pad, the incredible triumph of landing at the Sea of Tranquility in 1969, to the odd and humorous Alan Shepherd hitting a golf ball on the surface of the moon, this book chronicles a truly inspiring time in our nations history.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the moon race and anyone who loves the drama of real-life struggles with sometimes tragic consequences.  Just a fantastic adventure, one that rivals ANYTHING in fiction, and that makes it even more impressive because it ACTUALLY happened.	2000-11-07
US	47950934	RB3N2IX1O5R4B	0671000306	676324667	Shock Wave (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Rock 'em Shock 'em Clive!!	I just LOVE Cussler...and let me say, that after 'Inca Gold' I was wondering if Cussler wasn't in a little bit of a slump...and even though I still enjoyed that book, I was VERY pleased with 'Shock Wave'.  NOBODY but nobody can set up a book like Cussler can, and 'Shock Wave' proves it.  The opening story, like many of his previous novels takes us back in time to an event that happened a over a hundred years ago and eventually ties in with the plot (as always).  From a boat adrift in the ocean waaay in the Southern Hemisphere, it eventually makes landfall on an island that turns out to be not just their lifeline to survival, but unmeasurable wealth as well.  As usual Cussler has done his homework and having dabbled in fine gems myself a bit, it was interesting to see it all written so plainly here without any sugar-coating.  Are the diamonds that flood the earth over-inflated in price?  You BET.  What would happen if one of the world's leading diamond producers suddenly released these stones in mass quantities all over the globe?  The end result would be an incredible drop in the price of precious stones, to the point that it would reduce their value to that of ordinary gravel... Don't worry, it's only fiction, but GOOD fiction it is.  The actual 'Shock Wave' in the story is very interesting AND deadly, too.  For reasons only understandable to a bad guy in a Cussler novel, our main baddie here wants to use this technology to further his maniacal plan, whether or not it causes death to hundreds, thousands or possibly millions of people.  Cussler has come out swinging in this heavy hitter, his best in several years (at the time it came out) and always a pure joy to read.  All Cussler fans need to pick this one up post-haste and clear away a weekend of pure escapism.  It's just plain FUN.	2000-11-06
US	47950934	R2VYFR426N80RU	0812575504	789113180	Charon's Landing (Philip Mercer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Even BETTER than 'Vulcan's Forge'	I am pleased to say that Jack Du Brul's phenomenally fun 'Vulcan's Forge' WASN'T just a fluke.  'Charron's Landing' picks up soon after 'Forge' and takes off with a vengeance.  Should we or shouldn't we open up a section of the Alaskan Wildlife Refuge for the sole purpose of claiming the untapped oil reserves that will help make America totally independent from oil from the Middle East?  Is it worth the cost in environmental damage? Is it a fair trade?  Or are there select environmentalists who are willing to go to ANY lengths to stop the butchering of Alaska...even murder.  Although I find that many 'tree-huggers' are willing to do some pretty stupid things in the name of the environment, I have to admit this is a bit hard to swallow-- but WHO CARES??  Oh, if you were wondering where Ivan Kerikov went, 'Charron's Landing' answers that question.  Phillip Mercer is my new best friend!  I simply could NOT put this novel down and if his books get any better (actually 'The Medusa Stone' IS better than this one)...let me rephrase that: WHEN his books continue to get better, he's going to flat out OWN the action/adventure market like Cussler did in the 80's &amp; 90's. Now I KNOW that could ruffle a few collars out there--but let me remind you, Cussler is MY favorite author, and to see someone have the ability to assume the role that he himself defined is almost enough to bring me to tears...but as long as they both continue to write fantastic books (just check out 'Atlantis Found'--it's awesome) that won't be for a long time.	2000-11-03
US	47950934	R3OEC11CMPTPE8	0451409221	610005634	The Medusa Stone (Philip Mercer)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Dirk Pitt--move over, Mercer HAS arrived!	My first 5 star review for Mr. Du Brul, and well deserved.  I picked this up at the Orlando airport, disappointed that I couldn't find another book I had been looking for, but desperate to be able to spend my time on the plane reading SOMETHING, I grabbed 'The Medusa Stone' and began an incredible adventure that began thousands of years ago.  I'd tell you WHAT they are looking for, but finding out is actually a very tantalizing adventure worthy of anything Clive Cussler has come up with or even Tom Clancy, for that matter.  Mercer's drinking pal is abducted--but not by who you might think--and actually when you DO find out it sorta takes you by surprise--but that's by NO MEANS the ONLY surprise you run into inside the pages of this adventure masterpiece.  Mercer is asked to help out a tiny little country in Africa in finding a diamond mine that could rival anything in South Africa, and in so doing help to bring Eretria out of the dark ages--literally.  Phil is then linked up with a mysterious woman who may or may not be on his side, trust me it takes a while to figure that one out.  All the while a mafia Don believes that the diamonds--should there actually BE any are HIS.  Sound complex?  It IS--but all in a GOOD way.  Don't worry, Du Brul ties it all together in the end perfectly.  I'm really anxious for the next Mercer novel--as much so as I normally look forward to the next Dirk Pitt novel.  As much as I LOVE Cussler, Du Brul is fast becoming the NEW head of adventure in modern fiction.  Give Du Brul a few pages of your time, and you'll be singing his praises, too--no matter if you can hold a tune or not.	2000-11-03
US	47950934	RPZ1ZW9UU5MUA	0671023225	351832403	The Einstein Papers	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Read's like Cussler 'light'	I have to admit the opening portion of 'The Einstein Paper's' is as action-packed as any half-dozen Bond movies--COMBINED.  I felt this book has promise after all...however it slows down a bit and becomes a bit choppy at times.  It was still a fun and exciting book to read.  The premise of the Unified Field Theory is actually very creative and so chock-full of technological explanations that as far as I could tell, it actually could WORK (shoulda paid more attention in Math class...).  What would happen if this theory actually could work, and what if it fell into the wrong hands?  Hands of those who might actually USE it? We're talking about a weapon of such destructive power it could destroy the entire PLANET.  Poof and we're all history.  'Course nobody would actually USE it...would they?  The journey to find the answer to that is of course half the fun of 'The Einstein Papers'.  It seems to me that Dirgo has a great future ahead of him if this is his first solo novel, but he has a ways to go before claiming Cussler's crown (which is more in danger of being swiped by Jack Du Brul).  Hey, if you're looking for a clone of Cussler, look elsewhere.  But if you're looking for a fun action/adventure novel, 'The Einstein Papers' just might fit the bill...it sure did for ME.	2000-11-03
US	47950934	R2SQL6DRV8B25M	0061092045	696576216	Honor Among Thieves	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Plenty of Honor in THIS book!	The premise of this book was SO interesting that I felt that I HAD to get it and read it...I did, and was blown away.  From beginning to end it totally held my imagination, and twisted not just once or twice, but enough to make me want to read it again. Just what would be the result if Saddam Hussein, in his desperate and embarassed condition after the Gulf War, hatched a plot to steal THE actual Declaration of Independance right out from under the US Government, and on what would be considered OUR Holy Day, July 4th, burn it on live television...sounds like an interesting story, right?  I am here to say it's all that and MORE.  From the complicated plan to get the perfect someone to not only replicate it with such accuracy that when it's snatched, nobody will ever know until it's too late, to the double cross pulled on Saddam himself.  It all translates into a VERY fun story--I just hope that Saddam doesn't read this book and start to get some ideas... Ever since reading Archer, I've tried to find something else of his that grabbed my interest, but to date have found nothing. 'Honor Among Thieves' truly IS great fiction, sorta what might happen if you combined Tom Clancy &amp; Clive Cussler.  Real good stuff!  Enjoy the ride!	2000-11-03
US	47950934	R1C8ET17NJTMUA	0553560719	42812583	Dark Force Rising (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	May THIS book be with YOU!	What a daunting task to out-do 'Heir To The Empire'...Zahn established his amazing ability early on and created entirely new characters while staying true to the one's we've come to know and love in book 1...book 2 is very much like 'The Empire Strikes Back' in that not only was it my favorite of the original movies, 'Dark Force Rising' is probably my favorite of THIS series as well.  The title of the book is misleading.  I had thought that it had something to do with a Dark Jedi, b-u-u-t<br />nope!  It actually has to do with a large group of dreadnaught ships lost years before that were referred to as the 'Dark Force' because of their color.  The New Republic could desperately use these ships in their efforts to thwart Grand Admiral Thrawn...but let's not forget how incredibly smart Thrawn is, and he certainly could use these ships, too.  It's a race to find out exactly WHERE they are, and retrieve them first.  Without spoiling any of the surprises for you, remember how 'Empire' left you hanging for 3 years while we pondered whether or not Darth really WAS Luke's Father?  Well 'Dark Force' leaves you hanging in a similar way...only if you haven't read these books yet, you are lucky in that you can go right out and pick up book 3, 'The Last Command' and get a fix for that little morsel that Zahn left at the end of book 2...I however had to wait a year before the book came out to get MINE.  It was worth the wait, though.  Creativity and an amazing ability to capture the very 'essence' of the Star Wars Universe--THIS is Zahn's incredible talent, and he now assume's the title of Supreme Master (next to Lucas himself...). Don't waste your time with the other Star Wars novels out there written by ANYONE else but Zahn, nobody, and I DO mean NOBODY does it better (some come close, but NO cigar as they say...). Pick this one up, and set aside some time to enjoy and you'll be VERY glad you did.  Then get up and grab book 3!	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R3JO0QT6CVVFCC	0553564927	619509665	The Last Command (Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	C'mon, Zahn is actually Lucas, right???	What a GREAT wrap to the BEST Star Wars series in print.  Let me tell you, if you thought that Star Trek was the only series to have a cloaking device, give this series a shot and you'll believe that Zahn actually made it up FIRST.  NOBODY does it better!  From the Empire base to a secret planet growing --- oh I just CAN'T bring myself to spoil it for you if you haven't read 'Dark Force Rising'...I sure would LIKE to tell you, though. I CAN tell you THIS: Mara Jade's unquenchable desire to kill Luke finally get's resolved...but not necessarily in the way you might think.  Talon Karrde turns into a decent guy after all and (sad to say) Thrawn meets an untimely demise...or does he? Zahn's next series will have you guessing whether the good old Admiral was actually done in.  Like I have said before about the other books in this series, Zahn has PERFECTLY captured the true 'essence' of the Star Wars Universe, and I have yet to find any other author who even comes close to being able to pull it off with the finesse that Zahn has.  In short, this series is EVERY bit as good as the movies, and a GIANT LEAP ahead of ANY other Star Wars books in print.  GET THIS SERIES!!	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R2LFMUQ1J11722	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fantastic trip into the mind of a murderer	What a treat this story is (in a sadistic kind of way).  We get to delve into the evil and twisted mind of one of the greatest characters in modern fiction, Hannibal Lecter.  This is the only novel I can think of that after a while I ended up actually liking the bad guy (Hannibal).  Don't be misled.  The story is about catching a ruthless and creative serial killer, but the 'real' story is between Hannibal and Clarice.  For some odd reason Hannibal is facinated with this young FBI wannabe and therefore helps her by dangling tiny morsels of information that could lead to the capture of the 'other' bad guy in the story. How Thomas Harris takes us into Hannibals thoughts is a scary trip to make, but one that entertains as well as frightens. After reading this book, I found 'Red Dragon' (said to be much better than 'Silence') and read it, only to be disappointed. Sure it was good, but in MY opinion, far behind Hannibals 2nd outing in 'Silence of the Lambs'.  I SHOULD have read them in the order they were written, but that was MY mistake--don't YOU make the same.  This is a fantastic and very intricate whodunnit that goes way beyond your typical murder/mystery novel.	2000-11-02
US	47950934	RZIY9Y7TQKO9V	0553297988	797236535	Jedi Search (Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Hardly ANY bang for your buck...	Thank HEAVENS this book didn't come out in hardback firstotherwise I would have ... to get my money back.  This series startsoff with great promise, and a premise that is actually a greatidea...however Anderson has no talent to pull it off smoothy.  Idisagree with one of the reviewers that tells you to wait until you'veread all the other Star Wars books before getting into the JediAcademy Trilogy...IF you are insisting upon reading this series, getit overwith FIRST before you read<br />ANY other Star Wars books...it'sbetter to go UP rather than read some of the good books only to be letDOWN by THIS series. IF you have LOW expectations, Anderson is yourguy.  I agree with a previous reviewer that Anderson's unforgivableannoyance of referring back to previous stories that HE had a hand inwriting was totally distracting.  When I first read this I couldn'thelp but wonder what in the world he was referring TO.  When in thepast had Luke been drawn over to the Dark Side???? Anderson keptreferring to it as though it was in another novel but as I FINALLYfound out it was in a series of comic books he wrote as well as anaudio book he helped write and produce.  What a joke!  With that said,the very 'essence' of Star Wars is totally missing in this entireseries.  I can think of just 3 maybe 4 authors who have written StarWars books that are worth reading, Dave Wolverton, Steve Perry &amp;the KING of Star Wars, Timothy Zahn.  Like I said, if you MUST readthese books, do it BEFORE you start 'Heir To The Empire' and, wellmost ALL of the others out there, otherwise you might be soured onStar Wars for good.  Now that I have totally thrashed this series, IHAVE to admit that Anderson DID create a fast-moving series with lotsof action.  I have read some other novels by Anderson and he isn't abad author at all, but Star Wars ISN'T his area of expertise you ifget my drift...	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R1Q5GARP087VW3	0553569376	28503180	The Courtship of Princess Leia (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	DUMB title...but good book!	When I first saw this book, I did one of those, &quot;You have GOT to be kidding me&quot; looks when I read the title.  Wolverton is a pretty good author, and this is the best title he could come up with??  Okay...enough kidding.  Look past that and you'll see a pretty good Star Wars story underneath.  I particularly enjoyed the verbal jibes between Prince Isolder &amp; Solo.  All in all Mr. Wolverton has written a good addition to the Star Wars saga which is stretching way too thin with some authors who just have no talent for writing good space opera.  The re-introduction of  the rancor was a special spot for me since I loved the one who was given a permanent headache in 'Jedi' compliments of Luke. Let's face it: Writing Star Trek books is an easy task for some sci-fi authors...but writing good Star Wars books is even more difficult.  We are less forgiving, and very attatched to these characters.  Treat them without respect and you'll be lucky to get anything more than 3 stars on Amazon.  Treat them the way Lucas wrote them and you'll sell millions.  I like to think of Timothy Zahn as the bar by which all other Star Wars books are measured, mostly because he IS the BEST out there.  But to give him his due, Wolverton has given us a fun adventure and plausible scenario as to exactly HOW Han &amp; Leia eventually tied the knot. Kudos to Wolverton!	2000-11-02
US	47950934	RWT4IAUHMCSZT	0553576119	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Anderson never fails to disappoint me...	Continuing on his poor 'Jedi Academy Trilogy', 'Darksaber' is just a LOT of fluff in the same mold as the other three of his books in the Star Wars saga.  Let me say that I borrowed this book because after reading the monumentally disappointing 'Jedi Academy' books I was NOT about to waste any more money on Anderson's feeble attempts to create a story within the guise of good science fiction.  I made the right choice.  I HAVE to say one thing though: Kevin J. Anderson DOES come up with GREAT<br />story-lines, and 'Darksaber' is no exception...however what to do WITH these great ideas, well THAT is where Mr. Anderson falls flat.  I guess he feels that by writing a fighting scene on as many pages as he can will offset his inability to give us a cohesive story that makes sense.  I am truly surprised that ANY of the reviews are favorable.  Maybe it's because they haven't read any of the 'good' Star Wars books available...yet.  IF they have, and STILL enjoy Anderson, I guess it MUST be that I have a higher set of standards...(sorry if that offends those who enjoyed this book).  I don't think I can make it any more plain than this: I DON'T LIKE THIS AUTHOR'S STAR WARS BOOKS.	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R3CPAWJJ9BK37D	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I miss Han, but still a good addition...	In my effort to grab everything having to do with Star Wars, I grabbed this one and found it a pleasant surprise.  After reading the BEST series out there by Timothy Zahn, I found that just about ALL of the other Star Wars books were much like a bottle of soda after being left with the cap off for much too long...way too flat.  I am happy to say that with the exception of missing Han Solo (remember he was frozen in carbonite at the end of 'Empire') this book is probably the best Star Wars novel NOT written by Zahn.  Prince Xixor is a worthy addition to this series of books, and for a short while we have someone who rivals Darth as the baddest dude this side of the Spice Mines of Kessel. From his private domain on the Imperial Home world to Darth's obsession with getting rid of him while he looks for Skywalker makes for entertaining reading, kinda like 'Star Wars Light'. If you are looking for serious reading however, than Timothy Zahn reigns supreme in this area.  He is truly in a class by himself...but 'Shadow's' is actually not bad...	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R2587YP295B8JO	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow!  What a GREAT Whodunnit!	This was my first ride with Jeffery Deaver, and I sure picked a winner to start off with.  I LOVE the forensic side of a murder mystery, and Deaver hits all the right buttons making us only THINK we know who the REAL culprit is all the way to the very end, only to spring on us the REAL killer.  I can't TELL you how GREAT that was.  One of the very few books I finished with a smile on my face.  It was like when my brother used to fool me, and when it was all overwith, instead of getting mad at him, I just said, &quot;Okay, ya got me!  That was a GOOD one!&quot;  I felt the same way here.  I don't know how to go about describing the storyline except to say whoever you THINK is the killer, it AIN'T!  I was sorta disappointed with Deaver's follow-up, 'The Devil's Teardrop'...in comparison to his stories featuring Lincoln Rhyme, well there IS no comparison.  I got to the point where I started to become envious of Lincoln because he is SO darned smart...but as always, until the end, always a step behind the bad guys...I just couldn't put this novel down.  If you go for intense and creative murder/mysteries that are seamlessly woven with all of the details that go into catching someone like this--simply superb plotting and a great cast of characters propel this story to an INCREDIBLE climax that will catch you totally off-guard---but don't worry, you'll LOVE IT!	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R10NV8LCKH9RJB	0553073273	81931578	Star Wars: Heir To The Empire	Books	5	60	67	N	N	NOBODY does it better than Zahn---except for Lucas himself	Being a hard-core Star Wars fan since '77, I was thrilled but cautious when 'Heir To The Empire' first came out.  I had read 'Splinter of the Mind's Eye', the FIRST Star Wars novel outside of the original trilogy books (which ALL stink, by the way) and although it was entertaining, it just seemed like a story with characters who had the same names as Leia &amp; Luke &amp; Darth etc. There was no real substance that tied the 'spirit' of the movies to the book.  But even so, I gave Timothy Zahn a shot, and all I can say is WOW!  He has captured the very 'essence' of Star Wars PERFECTLY.  IF George Lucas ever decided to make Episode 7, 8 &amp; 9 he would start with 'Heir' for sure.  I don't think even HE could improve upon his own stories any better than Zahn has.  Everything from Grand Admiral Thrawn (a fantastic character, and MUCH more depth than Darth or the Emperor) to the Emperor's Hand, Mara Jade, to the ingenious introduction of creatures that actually REPEL the Force, this book and it's incredible sequels are NOT to be missed.  If you have EVER wondered if there were novels about the Star Wars Universe that were every bit as good as the movies, than Zahn is your author and the next series you read should start with 'Heir To The Empire'.  I have read and re-read this series 3 times now, and each time I find something new to remember, and another reason to be impressed with Zahn's writing style and ability.  I have also read almost all of the 'other' Star Wars novels out there (since a rash of them have been published since the completion of 'The Last Command') and there are but a small few that are even worthy of the Star Wars name, and none of THEM even rival THIS series by Zahn.  I'm telling ya, THIS is IT!  Ever wonder where Lucas came up with the name for the Imperial world, 'Coroscant'?  He BORROWED it from Zahn (no joke).  I figure if you don't read this series, you just CAN'T be a serious fan of Star Wars...but if you ARE, don't put off grabbing this entire series ASAP.  It's just fantastic Space Opera.  Go ahead, give it a shot.  Read book 1, enjoy.  Go to book 2, repeat.  Etc.ire series ASAP.  It's just fantastic Space Opera.  Go ahead, give it a shot.  Read book 1, enjoy.  Go to book 2, repeat.  Etc.	2000-11-02
US	47950934	R2DQ8W7DEE3DIX	0345422317	866931563	The Genesis Code	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun, but predictable...	I can't even remember WHY I picked up 'The Genesis Code' in the first place, however the first chapter was enough to convince me that this was in fact a pretty good thriller...however it DID ramble on in parts, and became predictable to the point where when the 'surprise' is finally unveiled, it is no longer a surprise.  B-u-u-u-t it WAS fun.  Mr. Case (not his real name) has given us a true-to-form formula for action, drama, science and more action.  It's almost as if the author was trying to meld the best parts of Robert Ludlum with Michael Chrichton... an admirable task, but not necessarily easy to pull off.  I'd say overall it was a valiant effort that fell short, but is certainly an entertaining journey.  Think of it as Ludlum 'light'.	2000-11-01
US	47950934	R3DYVH259WO38E	0451179803	959014913	Spandau Phoenix: A Novel	Books	5	22	23	N	N	FANTASTIC historical fiction...	Rudolf Hess...did he REALLY commit suicide as recorded by history in the Spandau prison in the late 80's?  He reportedly hung himself.  The man reportedly couldn't even raise his arms above his shoulders due to severe joint problems...and yet this old man finally did himself in...or DID he?  The premise here is just plain GREAT.  Mr. Iles has created an impossible-to-put-down thriller based upon REAL facts and actual instances and ties them together seamlessly.  I have ALWAYS enjoyed the way Jack Higgins could take a real event from WWII and tie it in with a fictional event and pull it off...well the heir to the throne that Higgins dominated in the 70's has arrived, and Greg Iles IS his name.  This is a large book, and it's totally filled with intrigue and suspense.  Did Rudolf Hess actually live past the War and is he living in South America?  What do the Spandau papers contain?  What of the failed mission that the 'real' Hess supposedly undertook at the beginning of the war...was it REALLY him?  Why was it he never recognized his own children after the war?  Rudolf Hess was a WWI war hero and received a battle wound...however the man reportedly to BE Hess in Spandau Prison did not have that scar...  Too good to be true?  Well many of these are true facts and that is where Iles takes you into speculative fiction, and he does it very well.  He almost gets you to believe that maybe, just maybe his version of what happened IS the real thing.  From a manhunt that spans Europe to Africa, 'Spandau Phoenix' really IS an incredible adventure thriller of the highest order.  Better than anything Jack Higgins ever produced (pretty high praise, dontcha think?).  Give it a shot, sit back and enjoy.  Iles manages to give us an adrenaline rush that is totally satisfying and makes you sad as the book comes to a close.  Simply put:  'Spandau Phoenix' is absolutely wonderful.	2000-11-01
US	47950934	R13Y4E68DJ4MLP	0451185196	745684315	Black Cross	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Black Cross is AMAZING!	Another home run for Greg Iles!!  Historical fiction now has a new champion!  Was Sarin and Soman real in WWII?  YES!  Could the D-Day Invasion of France been thwarted had Hitler listened to his advisors and laced the beaches with land-mines filled with Sarin &amp; Soman?  ABSOLUTELY.  This is another incredible fictional story set around what COULD have and almost DID happen in the days before D-Day.  The Germans really were ahead of the rest of the entire world in biological research, as well as many other areas.  Thank heavens Hitler never got wind of just how effective Sarin actually was or Europe would be saluting to the Swastika today.  I'm not kidding, this story scared me straight.  This actually COULD have happened.  Another incredible story set during WWII in a fictional Nazi Concentration Camp where scientists were producing the most vile substance known in history, and testing it ON Jews to see how good it worked. Winston Churchill is acutely aware of how the War will be forever lost if the German's actually become desperate enough to use Sarin.  He sends a very small group behind enemy territory to sabotage the entire operation, and avert a disaster of horrific consequences.  What goes on between the beginning pages and the amazing conclusion of this incredible story is awe-inspiring. The Nazi's really COULD have won the War.  'Black Cross' is NOT to be missed.  THE best WWII historical fiction book I have ever read.  The author writes a brief message at the end reminding us all that the terrifying events of this book happened not very long ago.  It was a sobering thought.  Since writing 'Black Cross' Mr Iles hasn't returned to Historical Fiction, and I for one look forward to the day when he returns back to that area he has come to not just dominate, but occupy with total supremacy.	2000-11-01
US	47950934	R1YUC751QY8FCW	0312963009	638192149	Neanderthal	Books	4	31	33	N	N	I Disagree--this was a fun book!	The reviews below really (and unfairly I believe) tear apart this book.  Was it literature?  Gosh NO!  Was it based on 100% verifiable facts?  Nope.  Was it good old-fashioned fun?  You BET!  John Darnton ISN'T a scientist.  Sure he bases a lot on the creative and scientific work of others, however from there he ran with the plot in his OWN direction to write a down-right fun adventure story similar to what we might find in an 'Indiana Jones' movie.  I don't want to make it out that this is going to win awards anytime soon...however I felt VERY interested from beginning to end, and the surprise that comes when you figure out what the hominids CAN do that really sets them apart really was an interesting twist.  I could see this in my mind's eye being made into a movie easily.  I doubt someone will, but I think it'd make a fun flick anyway.  So, if you are looking for literature to read, pass over 'Neanderthal'...but if you're looking for adventure 'light' than John Darnton has written the book for you.	2000-11-01
US	47950934	R3P5D5Q1DWS90P	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MUCH better than the movie...	Like many who are familiar with Michael Chrichton, as soon as I found out they were making 'Jurassic Park' into a movie, my initial thought was: &quot;GREAT!...but ONLY if they follow the book.&quot; Well they did an okay job (the effects were 1st rate, though) and yes, the story differed in MANY ways from the novel.  I encourage anyone who enjoyed the movie to pick up this fast-paced story of genetic manipulation today.  I DO have to admit they cast Jeff Goldblum PERFECTLY.  He fit Ian Malcom to a TEE. He is one of my favorite fictional characters, and when you read the story you'll know why.  One great annoyance I had with the movies was how a scene from the original 'Jurassic Park' book found its way into 'The Lost World' movie (the opening scene for instance, and the T-Rex thrusting its head through the waterfall...) and the ending of 'The Lost World' was SO different from the book as to make me wonder if they were going to release a novelized version of the movie since it was almost 100% different than the book.  Dennis Nedry was another great casting job (remember Newman from Seinfeld...?) and, well forget the differences, this story deserves to be read, mostly because it is timely and incredibly entertaining.  When was the last time you heard someone say the movie version of a book was better? In this case, the movie cannot even hold a candle to Chrichton's amazing story of bringing the dead back to life by use of genetic science.  He almost makes you believe it could happen...The action never let's up, and the twists and turns and let's not forget the ending being totally different from the movie...it's just a GREAT BOOK.  Get it!  Read it!  Enjoy it!	2000-10-31
US	47950934	R34XXMLDHF2LE7	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not a bad sequel at ALL	Let me start off by saying that 'Jurassic Park' was a true original...and were it not for the 1st book, I'd say that this one was even better...however since all of the originality of the 1st book was snatched away from you, this one falls short... however I STILL LOVED IT!!  I for one am glad that Chrichton held his integrity high and wrote a sequel to his book rather than the movie.  I disagree that this book is slow until three-quarters through.  I found it compelling from beginning to end. The chase scenes, or should I say the scenes where people are BEING chased are first rate.  As far as the characters being a little thin, all I know is I enjoyed the book.  Some folks fall into the same trap after time and end up OVER-Analyzing books and movies that were written primarily to entertain us, and that's all.  Chrichton has written a fantastic story here, and although the movie was pure drivel by comparison, and I mean that the movie really stunk compared to the novel.  This book answers some questions left hanging in the original book, and raises a few more as well.  It also gives us a plausible explanation for a 2nd island full of dinosaurs.  As always, Ian Malcom was fantastic!  His pointedly 'realistic' views on life and the effect of extinct species on modern life is always facinating.  I LOVED THIS BOOK.  Maybe I'm the only one, but aside from the fact that the first book stole all of the 'original' ideas of dinosaurs away, this is STILL a GREAT read. Chrichton is good (except for 'Airframe') and this is one of his best books.  Read it, enjoy it and thank me later.	2000-10-31
US	47950934	R2OQWH3BDM4C8F	0812551494	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	The Least Entertaining 'Truth' Novel of all...	Having read the ENTIRE 'Sword of Truth' series. I have to say this one was THE strangest and most out-of-place of them all.  I have to say it WAS well-written, and I still enjoyed it, but it left me disappointed because at least HALF of the book took place in a city called, 'Anderith' in the South-Western portion of the Land created by Mr. Goodkind.  That means half of the book centers around characters that we've never heard of before, and it isn't until the very end that they tie together with Richard, Kahlan, Zedd and the others we know and love.  After reading 4 books that went into detail about these people, and developed situations that I was interested in seeing resolved or at least touched upon, this book did an about-face and went in another direction entirely.  Now when a book surprises me and does the unexpected I am usually happy...however that was far from my thoughts as I progressed in this book.  It was more confusing than surprising.  I kept wondering, &quot;WHERE is this going and WHY is it going there?&quot;  Even after finishing it, and reading book 6 ('Faith of the Fallen') I STILL am perplexed at why Goodkind went into such detail about these people only to abandon them in the next book.  It just didn't make sense, and still doesn't. I hate to irritate those who enjoyed this book, and I almost feel apologetic for being critical, but the more I think about it, the more I am disappointed with Goodkind for setting us on a specific (and entertaining) path only to take a detour that just goes outside what he has had us come to expect for 4 straight books.  Now I don't believe that author's should always be predictable, far from it, but 'Soul of the Fire' seems as though it were a different fantasy story world altogether. Now let me say this: Goodkind more than redeems himself with book 6.  'Faith of the Fallen' is a true fantasy masterpiece (especially after this one...).  Now with that said, I still enjoyed it, as quirky as it was, but it just didn't elevate itself to the lofty heights we have come to expect from the fantastic 'Sword of Truth' series.  Read it, you'll need to anyway just to understand the series, just be aware of how different it's going to be.t elevate itself to the lofty heights we have come to expect from the fantastic 'Sword of Truth' series.  Read it, you'll need to anyway just to understand the series, just be aware of how different it's going to be.	2000-10-31
US	47950934	R1QPUW3OT4LMJY	0006479758	506174805	Executive Orders	Books	4	0	0	N	N	5-stars for overall plot, but 4 for drawing it out too long...	I am a HUGE Clancy fan, and I have been since reading his first novel back in 1985...I believe 'Executive Orders' to be the last honestly good novel Clancy has written (The Bear & The Dragon, Red Rabbit and The Teeth of the Tiger have all fallen flat).  Events in this book are swift and immediate from the opening page.  Upon the ending to Debt of Honor, in which a mini war with Japan is waged, the Vice President is forced from office and the current Executive Chief requests Jack Ryan to sit in the remaining term as VP.  He reluctantly agrees, and just as he finishes being sworn into the position, a lone Japanese Airline pilot crashes a 747 into the Capitol Building in DC.  Yes, this is all pre-911.  Within seconds of becoming a VERY reluctant VP, Ryan finds himself the Leader of the Free World -- literally upon the death of the President.<br /><br />A rather large number of politicians are also killed in the crash and the country is immediately thrown into chaos.  Clancy does a remarkable job of helping us understand why Ryan believes the way he does and gives us some startling examples of why Government ought to change and examples of how to do it.  I gotta tell you, I agreed with the vast majority of it.  Yes Ryan's slant is decidedly Conservative...so this may rub our friends to the Left the wrong way, but I don't believe Clancy intended it to.  He sets the stage in great detail (many would say too MUCH detail) as to exactly WHY Ryan says what he says and is who he is, and if taken in that light, I don't find it offensive regardless of which way you lean politically.  I may be wrong, but that is my opinion on the matter.<br /><br />Jack Ryan quickly becomes embroiled in several messes all at once.  From a plot to kidnap his children to a very drawn-out and over-detailed plot to bring a man-made strain of ebola to our shores and unleash it on as many as possible.  There are several additional sub-plots all traveling along, and whether you are into that sort of thing or not, for the most part I felt Clancy handled them all pretty well.  I only have two small gripes: #1. Too much detail...WAY too much.  I believe a strong-willed editor could have chopped a good 300+ pages without sacrificing anything to the plot at all (Actually I think it more like 400+ but who cares?).  #2. The ebola plot reminded me a bit too much of a similar plot in Rainbow Six.  I don't see too many other people mentioning this, so maybe I happen to be the only one, but I thought it was worth bringing up all the same.<br /><br />All that aside, Executive Orders is another worthy addition to the Jack Ryan series.  Unfortunately since taking the Oval Office, the character will be difficult to perpetuate as in novels past -- which may be why Clancy wrote Red Rabbit which takes place in between Patriot Games & Hunt For Red October, and why he has introduced Jack Jr. in his most recent and MUCH thinner Teeth of the Tiger.  Regardless, my belief is that this is Clancy's last really decent novel.  The others have been above-average for the Techno-Thriller genre that Clancy himself helped originate, but they were sub-par when compared with his earlier works.  Again, this is only my opinion, but lagging book sales seem to prove my point.  I just wish we could start all over again and go back to when Jack could go at it in the thick of the action and not have to worry about Secret Service Agents watching his every move.of thing or not, for the most part I felt Clancy handled them all pretty well.  I only have two small gripes: #1. Too much detail...WAY too much.  I believe a strong-willed editor could have chopped a good 300+ pages without sacrificing anything to the plot at all (Actually I think it more like 400+ but who cares?).  #2. The ebola plot reminded me a bit too much of a similar plot in Rainbow Six.  I don't see too many other people mentioning this, so maybe I happen to be the only one, but I thought it was worth bringing up all the same. <br /> <br />All that aside, Executive Orders is another worthy addition to the Jack Ryan series.  Unfortunately since taking the Oval Office, the character will be difficult to perpetuate as in novels past -- which may be why Clancy wrote Red Rabbit which takes place in between Patriot Games & Hunt For Red October, and why he has introduced Jack Jr. in his most recent and MUCH thinner Teeth of the Tiger.  Regardless, my belief is that this is Clancy's last really decent novel.  The others have been above-average for the Techno-Thriller genre that Clancy himself helped originate, but they were sub-par when compared with his earlier works.  Again, this is only my opinion, but lagging book sales seem to prove my point.  I just wish we could start all over again and go back to when Jack could go at it in the thick of the action and not have to worry about Secret Service Agents watching his every move.	2000-10-30
US	47950934	R2N851RZKDN1RJ	0671742760	305457714	Dragon	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Move over 007---Pitt is the REAL THING!	Can ANYONE tell me who can write more action into 500 pages than Clive Cussler??  ANYONE??  As one of Pitt's finest adventures begins (as usual) we are transported to an un-recorded flight of a 3rd atomic bomb to be dropped on Japan at the end of WWII. It never arrived...the powers-that-be sweep it under the table and we then leap-frog ahead to a sudden nuclear explosion in the Pacific.  The explosin is totally UN-RELATED to the atomic bomb which never arrived in WWII...where did it come from and why? This is the little problem we encounter with 'Dragon' possibly one of Pitt's most entertaining adventures.  From an undergound Nazi cache of stolen art, to robotic dogs to a fanatical modern day Ninja who collects human heads this novel travels from one spot on the globe to another as quickly as you can turn the pages.  We even are treated to a spectacular nuclear explosion IN the United States...how it comes about is half the fun, and how Dirk &amp; Company take us to the final moments is a roller-coaster worth riding.  For sheer fun and an adrenaline rush unlike any other, 'Dragon' is THE answer.	2000-10-30
US	47950934	R26R7UQYWYNOQ	0425147584	145288617	Debt of Honor (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Ryan Saves us...AGAIN!!	Talk about your cliff-hangers...it doesn't get much better than 'Debt of Honor' my friends.  I honestly can't think of ANY book I have EVER read that leaves you with such an amazing, but frustraing ending.  I echo one of the reviews of that book: The last chapter alone is worth the cost of the book.  But please do NOT spoil the surprise by reading it.  From a subtle but increasingly hostile Japanese agressive act on everything from the military to Wall Street, Clancy has given us a nail<br />biter, and one of his best, too (I STILL liked 'Sum Of All Fears' the most...).  Run, don't walk to the nearest book store and grab this large book and lock yourself away for a good weekend filled with a huge adrenaline rush.  How it all comes about, and what America does about the Japanese threat is truly enlightening, especially the thought that since the 'Gulf War' Mother Hubbard's Cupboard has become pretty bare of Military might.  Nevertheless Clancy has given us reason to rejoice in that he has given us a FANTASTIC story with probably THE BEST (and most fustrating) ending I have ever read--you simply HAVE to read it to understand what I'm talking about...and while you do, enjoy!	2000-10-30
US	47950934	R1BZM8J64RUK5F	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	All I can say is WOW!!	After exhausting what I had thought was just about all there was in the field of fantasy, and left mostly disappointed, I finally picked up 'A Game of Thrones' and was left utterly in awe.  This book reads more like historical literature than the usual cardboard cut-out fantasy we've been forced-fed for so many years.  Not since that 'other' 'R.R.' in fantasy have I found someone who had such a literal command of what he was doing and how to capture a reader so completely.  What can I say?  The plotting, the view's from so many different characters (which is what I thought REALLY set this novel apart) and the fact that you simply cannot become too close with any specific character, because you just have NO IDEA whether or not they'll live past the next chapter.  I am pleased that all who have read and reviewed this novel and it's sequels, have gone out of their way NOT to spoil the story by revealing WHO dies and other crucial plot twists.  To give you an idea, think of ALL the other novels you have read...think of how many were predictable...how many were TOTALLY original AND IMPOSSIBLY UNPREDICTABLE?  Not many I would guess (if any).  'A Game of Thrones' IS that kind of novel (and so are the next two in the series).  Like many folks I read the reviews wondering HOW in the WORLD this book could POSSIBLY live UP to the praise that was tossed back and forth...it has happened before and will happen again, SOMEONE see's a movie and praises it SO MUCH that it could NEVER live up to the hype...but that is where 'A Game of Thrones' does an about-face...the praise is high indeed, perhaps more than I have ever read before for any other novel--however George R.R. Martin has lived UP to that high praise, and has gone beyond.  His imagination is phenomenal.  His characterization is without equal in modern fiction.  I just MIGHT offend a few fantasy readers with this next comment, but Martin has written a world more detailed and entertaining than Mr. Tolkien did years ago. It'samazing that it took so long for someone to be able to grab hold of a genre like fantasy and not just assume the title of King, but do it with such style.  I submit that Mr. Martin IS the Heir of the Tolkien crown, and he earned it not by stealing it away, but by giving us a story that is truly amazing in scope and texture.  In short, 'A Game of Thrones'is worth every ounce of praise it received and will continue to receive for decades to come.  Do NOT be afraid to admit that Tolkien has finally been eclipsed...George R.R. Martin HAS done it.  This book is already a classic.	2000-10-30
US	47950934	R1GJ7DF8MO2GDY	0671709453	851239785	Deep Six	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Great Political Suspense--AND Action!	Cussler does it again!!  What can I say.  I purchased this book the day it was released (what was it now, 12 or 15 years ago?) and I was captured into the plot from page 1 all the way through the VERY satisfying conclusion.  From a ship oozing poison into the ocean to the kidnapping of the Presidential Yacht, right under the noses of the Secret Service ON the Patomac...and an unusual nasty lead character that is a woman...Clive has given one of his earlier novels plenty of flair and like I said, as you may already know, Pitt usually wins (okay ALWAYS) and the bad guys usually get what's coming to them (okay ALWAYS) but THIS one was a bit more satisfying than in novels past (at least for me).  The action (as usual) is non-stop and no matter how unbelievable the story is (let's face it, ALL of Cussler's books are difficult to believe...) but let's also remember just how fun they are, too.  The MOST successful movie series of all-time are about a secret agent named Bond...and are they any more believable than a Dirk Pitt novel?  But we keep going back for more...why?  I'll tell you why:  Because THEY ARE FUN!  And so is 'Deep Six'.  If you (for some strange reason) do NOT know Dirk Pitt yet, get to know him here in this fantastic adventure by Clive Cussler.  I think you will be pleasantly surprised.	2000-10-25
US	47950934	R2M58YZ0A4OPFF	067152609X	547763833	The Return (Star Trek)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not Literature...but GREAT Star Trek!	After seeing Star Trek V the Final Frontier I was almost turned off by the thought of seeing ANYTHING Trek ever again...and guess what??  William Shatner wrote the script!  It was impossibly, horribly bad...MY vote as the worst of the 'Trek movies'.  Okay, leapfrog with me if you will a few years and now we have Shatner attempting to write novels.  I have avoided these books like the plague I was certain they were mostly because of how much I detested 'Trek V'...that is until a friend of mine recommended 'The Return' to me.  I was happy to pick it up, but when I saw Shatner's name on it, I immediately started to give it back, but my friend insisted that I at least give it a try.  I was suffering from 'can't find a decent-book-to-read syndrome' at the time and so gave it a shot.  !!WOW!! Was I surprised or WHAT?  Shatner has given us one of THE most entertaining Trek stories out there.  Totally chock full of action and plot twists and in general all-out fun.  Now I'll tell you WHY his Trek books are so good:  He is CO-writing them with THE best Trek authors out there, Judith &amp; Garfield Reeves-Stevens'.  Have you picked up 'Federation' yet?  It is one of the ALL-TIME best Trek books ever written (along with their amazingly creative 'Prime Directive').  I'm sure the collaboration is what makes Shatner's novels actually good, but whoever is responsible for the WHY, I don't care, this is just one fun adventure to take.  If Shatner IS responsible, kudos to him for a great story, if it's his co-authors I don't really care, as long as he continues to produce these great Trek stories.  I would also recommend 'The Ashes of Eden' as well. It takes place in the Universe of the 'Trek of Old' with all the other major Trek characters, and is another winner of a story. All in all Shatner's Trek books stand nicely side-by-side with ANY other on the market.  Peter David's 'Q Squared' is also one of THE most original stories out there as well.	2000-10-24
US	47950934	R2E5NOTSJSYRDW	067142663X	35750430	SANDKINGS	Books	5	30	30	N	N	5 Stars for Sandkings	I first read 'Sandkings' in the annual Best of SF edition of OMNI magazine when I was in 8th grade oh so many years ago... I am STILL in awe of this story.  When I saw the book at a store several years ago I figured maybe George had taken his amazing short-story and lengthened it to novel-size...or had simply written a sequel or well I didn't really care as long as it was built upon the best short-story I had ever read.  I am sorry to say that it was just a collection of short stories<br />with 'Sandkings' being one OF them.  This in NO WAY dimishes how utterly original this story is, though.  I'm telling you the last written line of 'Sandkings' is worth the price of the book alone...but please, please do NOT spoil the surprise by skipping ahead and doing so.  The main character is flawed in that he loves to be sadistic with these tiny adaptable creatures that learn to revere him as deity.  But what happens along the way is horrific...and amazing.  Spend an hour or two and read this short story and get to know one of the best novelists of the past 20 years.  George R.R. Martin is fast becoming one of THE prominant names in the fantasy field (just check out his 'Song of Ice &amp; Fire' series beginning with 'A Game of Thrones') but he was first a sci-fi author...he's not just good at both, he's fantastic...	2000-10-24
US	47950934	RHXMLVPCTREUS	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	NOT your typical Sci-Fi novel...	I was in a slump and picked up 'Ender's Game' mostly because the selection I had to choose from wasn't all that great...however I obviously made the right choice.  This book isn't at all like other science fiction novels I have read.  As I have talked with others' who have read this book and read some of the reviews the oft-repeated opinion of this story is that those who read it could identify with it because of Ender and the way he was portrayed.  I have to echo those statements as well.  Ender seemed to be an extension of my earlier life in school, how I viewed the world, and how I was treated by others.  I was also drawn into the plot that Card has created here as well.  Not only was it entertaining, but creative without trying to be sophisticated.  All in all, Battle School was very similar to MY school (only mine was on Earth...) and since I am cheap, I am patiently waiting for the paperback edition of 'Ender's Shadow' and hopefully it is as good as the reviews say it is.  I also understand ANOTHER new book is nearing publication in the world of Ender Wiggen.  Before I wrap up, I have to say that this is the ONLY science fiction book I know of that many people have read that are anything BUT sci-fi lovers.  This book transcends a LOT of areas that most novels don't even come close to approaching.  My pre-apologies to lovers of the other sequels of Ender's Game...sorry but I just COULDN'T get into them at ALL. They were SO different that they seemed completely UNRELATED. I thought it was just me, but I have come across many others who also feel the same way.  I have also attempted to read them more than once thinking maybe, just maybe they would appeal to me at a later time...nope, nosiree Bob.  Didn't work.  Sorry.  But Ender's Game WAS and IS absolutely wonderful.	2000-10-20
US	47950934	R39OYYNAEWVUWL	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Sorry, but this doesn't even come close to Ender's Game...	Let me start off by saying I LOVED 'Ender's Game'...with that said, I just did NOT like 'Speaker For The Dead'.  It had a place here and there that had me interested in the story and all...but this story is SO DIFFERENT from 'Ender' that it almost seemed like it was written by someone else.  I liked the Orson Card I read in 'Ender' but if his writing style is more like what I read in 'Speaker' I'll just stay away from the rest of his books.  I hoped against hope that 'Xenocide' would redeem<br />what I felt, but sorry to say, it didn't.  Now IF you like these books, I am truly happy for you, however they just didn't do it for me (I don't know why, but I was just bored with them).  I have high hopes for 'Ender's Shadow' but after 'Speaker' &amp; 'Xenocide' I'll await for the paperback before I buy it.  Again my apologies to fans of these books.  I'm not a bad guy, I just didn't enjoy the books.	2000-10-20
US	47950934	R3PC7VLJ5ERU2G	0312866828	718718805	White House	Books	5	12	12	N	N	All I can say is: WOW!	I've been a reader of Hagberg's since on a whim I picked up a copy of 'Critical Mass' several years ago and thought it was a darned good action/adventure novel.  Well I never once saw this book at ANY bookstores...I found out about it by accident while browsing through Amazon...so I went out and tried to find it at one of the 3 major bookstores in my area, and NONE of them had it.  I had to resort to the public library, which thank heavens had it...with that said, I have to admit this is Hagberg's best work to date.  MUCH better than 'Assassin' and light years ahead of 'High Flight'.  There seems to be new strength to Hagberg's writing here.  From the opening pages you will find it hard to pause long enough to take a breath and dive back in for more. For a couple of days before I finished it, the first thing on my mind when I woke up was 'White House' and what was going to happen next.  Now THAT is MY personal measuring stick for how good a book is: If it's the last thing on my mind when I go to bed and the 1st thing I think of when I get up, I KNOW it's a good book.  From the brink-of-war situation between Japan and North Korea to rockets taking satellite's to the new International Space Station to chase scenes worthy of the best Bond film, Hagberg is to be commended on breathing new life into Kirk McGarvey.  The last couple of McGarvey stories had been getting a little dull, but in 'White House' Hagberg totally redeems himself with a great story, incredible speed, and everything in between that makes action/adventure/intrigue all worth your time.	2000-10-19
US	47950934	R3KYUXOG5EKWLP	0553273906	849282864	Vixen 03 (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Good but NOT Cussler's best...	I was SO anxious to read this novel when it first came out many years ago, I TRIED to read it all at once...I have to admit it starts off REALLY GOOD.  Dirk finds a plane in the bottom of an isolated Colorado lake, and he also uncovers quite a mystery in the process...but then this novel shifts gears in a way that is totally foreign to ALL the other Dirk Pitt novels.  Cussler then transports us to South Africa and there you end up embroiled in a political nightmare which seems SO FAR removed from anything else Cussler has written to make one wonder if in fact he had a hand in actually writing it.  It seems 100% UNrelated to the events detailed in the beginning of the book.  When the two sections of the book begin to run together (and I have to admit I was about to give up on the book when it finally happened) it FINALLY became a good adventure novel.  Some bad guys attempt to sail a decomissioned naval ship up to Washington D.C. and launch a few surprises on the Capitol...let's just say the surprises are enough to make things rather unpleasant in D.C. for many years to come--but NO it's NOT a Nuke.  At this point the book shifts gears again and turns back into a Pitt novel.  So let's re-cap: 'Vixen 03' starts OFF as a Pitt story, turns into an odd mix of politics and protest in South Africa, then comes BACK to America where it turns back INTO a Pitt story.  The first third and last third are GREAT, but it's the middle which is almost so strange as to seem like it was written by someone else (not that I would think it actually happened...).  All in all 'Vixen 03' is an entertaining story, mixed with a 2nd story that is just barely connected to the rest of the novel.  Good, but NOT Cussler's best, that's all I can say.	2000-10-18
US	47950934	R1JHW5I7EFNWFB	0671737783	81355047	Mediterranean Caper	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Just plain FUN!	Cussler just doesn't know how to disappoint his readers.  If he has as much fun writing his books as I do reading them he must be in a perpetual good mood.  This early novel of Pitt's adventures takes place (guess where?) in Europe on an island and it isn't long before Pitt, the human magnet for trouble stumbles upon quite an interesting situation.  From getting strafed by an old bi-plane to finding an underground cavern complete with a submarine to getting lost in a maze and attacked by vicious dogs Cussler has given us a meaty tale to swallow, but one we are glad to digest because he makes us enjoy the ride. As usual good prevails and evil is punished, Pitt-style, and all in all this early outing for Dirk is as fun as almost anything in the Cussler library of adventure.  Pick it up, climb aboard and enjoy the ride.	2000-10-18
US	47950934	RPB75SDHU7NGB	0671521101	300599240	Sahara	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Pitt's in GOOD form in this adventure...	I'm a lifelong Cussler fan since the late 70's when I first read 'Raise The Titanic' and felt (and still feel) that it was one of the best adventure stories written.  Cussler seems to never write a bad story...however some are just better than others. 'Sahara' is one such story.  From the opening pages when a Confederate Ironclad takes on a mysterious guest and set's sail to places unknown...to the deadly plague seeping into the ocean off the coast of Africa threatening to destroy all sea life... to a really nasty bad guy (who really get's what is coming to him ala Pitt's fiendish imagination...) this has just about anything and everything an adventure novel should have.  I read somewhere recently that Cussler isn't the Sultan of Suspense, he's the Emperor of Action and I'd have to agree.  Swift plotting with a cast of characters you just GOTTA like and a story worthy of Cussler's best.  I particularly enjoyed Pitt &amp; Giordino's travails through the desert near death, and their discovery there.  As a true Dirk Pitt fan, I urge you to get to know this guy.  Bigger, better and more creative than James Bond, Pitt is more like a cross between Bond &amp; an ocean-going Indiana Jones. You get the best of nifty gadgets plus the swashbuckling adventure that makes Indiana Jones so fun--it's ALL HERE and in abundance, too.  Another discovery in the desert is also worth the price of the book, too.  'Sahara' is a fantastic fun yarn and one YOU need to take as soon as possible.  Trust me, you'll be glad you did.	2000-10-18
US	47950934	R1X0I5MAJY1NOF	0553276328	432974833	Pacific Vortex (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Pitt's 1st Adventure is one worth taking	I was surprised when I first saw 'Pacific Vortex' at the bookstore.  I was no stranger to Clive Cussler novels.  I had been reading them for years and immediately picked it up and when I found out that it was actually the first book he had written about Dirk Pitt I was almost reluctant to buy it.  I had to wonder WHY he waited so long to publish it...was it because it wasn't as good as his other stories?  What was the reason?  Well I took a chance and bought it, and after finishing it, I can tell you I have NO IDEA why Cussler chose to wait before releasing 'Pacific Vortex'.  This is one fantastic book.  I believe it is also one of the few Cussler stories that takes place in the (where else?) Pacific Ocean.  From an underwater surprise to a missing sub to Pitt's incredible wit and wisdom, this is one advenuture you need to take.  If you DON'T read 'Pacific Vortex' you are missing out on not only Pitt's very beginning's, but a GREAT read as well.  Everything that makes Dirk Pitt one of modern fiction's greatest characters is all here.  Pick it up and clear away some time, relax, begin and enjoy.	2000-10-18
US	47950934	R828HAXNOIOU2	0671704656	147844738	Treasure	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another 5-Star Winner from Cussler	Wow!  What a premise...what if the biggest and best treasures of the Alexandria Library were spirited away and hidden someplace NOBODY would EVER think to find them...?  We are talking about THE greatest artifacts known to the ancient world, and could they actually be in TEXAS?!?  Well that is just a PART of what is happening here.  A fanatical Mexican leader is brewing up a volcano that is about to erupt on the American/Mexican Boarder with potentially catastrophic results.  But this too is just a PART of what is happening in this wonderful novel.  As usual Pitt comes across an amazingly terrible bad guy (I just wonder HOW Cussler makes these guys even worse than the previous guys...) who is not above ANYTHING to get what he wants.  The difference here is that we don't have just ONE bad guy, but TWO. From our first meeting with Dirk Pitt's Father (Senator Pitt) to a hair raising will-they-make-it-or-won't-they death trap at the bottom of the world aboard a cruise ship that literally disappears...if you wanna know more, you just HAVE to pick up this complex thriller.  A bit more than the usual plot-twisting for Cussler, but don't worry, he doesn't fail in his resolve to give us what we want: a FUN BOOK TO READ.  Way to go Clive!  As far as reading this book goes, JUST DO IT!	2000-10-18
US	47950934	RCTJN30WYK430	0345386744	360063543	The Talismans of Shannara (The Heritage of Shannara, Book 4)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fantastic...EXCEPT for the ending...	Let me start off by saying I LOVE Terry Brooks' books.  I have been a fan since '77 when 'The Sword of Shannara' came out.  With that said, I absolutely loved 'Scions', was a bit disappointed with 'Druid', and thought that 'The Elf Queen' was THE best of the series (bar none).  In the opening chapters when Walker is plagued with the problem of being a captive INSIDE Paranor because the Shadowen have brought forth the Four Horsemen to sorta keep an eye on him and make sure he stays there...I felt that Brooks had a PERFECT beginning to a really great series. The way Walker went about defeating them was truly a work of creative art in my opinion.  I was really thinking that 'Talismans' was going to out-perform 'Elf Queen' but it seemed as though the ending wrapped up a little too neatly a little too quickly.  My reasoning was this: when you have a series of connected novels that span 4 complete books, and they aren't even close to wrapping up the war with the Shadowen with just a hundred pages left in the book...it seemed as though there was too much to finish in such a short amount of time.  It just seemed as though Brooks' was writing against a deadline and tied up the loose ends much sooner than it seemed it should have.  That isn't to say this book isn't great, but I have to say it ended almost too abruptly for me.  Now with that said, read this book no matter what.  If you enjoy Fantasy, and a fantasy series in general, do NOT miss out on the 'Heritage of Shannara' it ranks as one of the best in print (flaws notwithstanding).  I still think 'Scions' and 'Elf Queen' are the best in the series, but all in all, Terry Brooks has done a great job of giving us all what we want most: a few hours of distraction with a little adventure, magic and intrigue thrown in.	2000-10-17
US	47950934	R3POLW93D23KAU	0345375599	557985230	The Druid of Shannara (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Sorry, but this is the my least favorite Shannara novel	I was beside myself with ecstasy when 'Scions' came out. I was TOTALLY caught off guard when I saw it at the bookstore, bought it immediately and was pleasantly surprised yet again when I found out it wasn't a stand-alone novel as all his previous works had been but the first of a Quartet.  I finished 'Scions' in record time (for me) and sat about waiting a year for book #2 to come out.  I again purchased it immediately and that is when things came to a screeching halt.  'The Druid of Shannara' has NONE of the velocity found in 'Scions' nor the following books in the series ('Elf Queen' &amp; 'Talismans').  I found myself being very critical of Terry Brooks and felt it almost sacrilege to say anything other than good things about all his books.  But not in this case.  As far as a fantasy novel goes, 'Druid' is entertaining...however it dragged on and seemed as if Brooks should have combined books 2 &amp; 3, but since he had to write 4 complete books, he stretched Walker's search for the Black Elf Stone MUCH farther than it needed to be.  After re-reading the book I felt that my initial assessment is still in effect.  Now I HATE feeling this way about my ALL-TIME FAVORITE fantasty author.  I can think of NO OTHER Shannara book that sparks the same feelings.  All in all a fairly decent story, but not up to Brooks' usual tremendous talent for characterization and swift plotting.  As far as the series goes, you HAVE to read it to get to the finale in 'The Talismans' but it just didn't have the punch I have come to expect from the world's greatest living fantasy author.  Thank the good Lord 'The Elf Queen' went on to be one of the best in the Shannara series.  Sorry to all who loved this book.  I didn't HATE it, it just wasn't what I had come to expect.	2000-10-17
US	47950934	R137D3I0SGV4J0	0345396537	855284075	First King of Shannara	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Not bad...	I was (as usual) pleasantly surprised to see Terry Brooks attempt to give us a prequel to his enormously successful and fantastic debut, 'Sword of Shannara'.  As I started to read 'First King' I began to think that a few facts brought into evidence seemed out of whack with what had been written before in the original first book ('Sword').  After I finished the book, I went and re-read 'Sword of Shannara' and sure enough, there are just a few places where the facts originally set forth by Allanon were re-written a bit different in 'First King'.  Now this is just a small annoyance, but for some reason it really got to me.  Other than this, I had to say that it was an exceptional fantasy novel. I also have to say that even though the events pre-date the 'Sword of Shannara' you don't have to read it before beginning the series (although if you haven't read any of them, I would recommend going in order if you can).  What Brooks does best is develop characters you can identify with, ones with flaws and problems, sometimes impossibly difficult problems...but that is why we root for them and feel like we can understand with them, they are like US.  The bad guys are really bad (in this case, I don't think ANY evil creature in ALL the Shannara books is as bad as the Warlock Lord) and the good guys are good, and there are a few who are questionable...he gets you to wondering whether or not they will step up to the plate when necessary or will they fold and cause a tragedy...well without ruining the story (which should be familiar if you have read 'Sword') some do and some do not (I'll let you find out who they are on your own--it's much more fun that way).  Let me just say this: IF you are a Terry Brooks fan, you will probably LOVE this book.  If you are NOT a fan of Brooks, you should STILL LOVE this book.  I just can't see anyone who is a fan of fantasy not enjoying EVERYTHING written by Brooks...I just can't fathom it.  Anyway, 'First King' IS a great addition to the series, and after reading it for the 2nd time, I STILL enjoyed it, but those little details that were altered still managed to get under my skin.  If you don't catch them, then don't worry, just sit back and enjoy a great read., and after reading it for the 2nd time, I STILL enjoyed it, but those little details that were altered still managed to get under my skin.  If you don't catch them, then don't worry, just sit back and enjoy a great read.	2000-10-17
US	47950934	R1TSM2FMN8JITK	0345375580	758345402	The Elf Queen of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	What a TRIUMPH for Shannara fans	After being somewhat disappointed with 'The Druid of Shannara' I was VERY pleased to find that not only had Terry Brooks NOT lost his supreme talent for writing, 'The Elf Queen' came out to be one of his all-time best books.  I LOVE the Shannara series, perhaps more than any other in print today, and Wren's search for the lost Elf City of Arborlon on a dangerous island in the Blue Divide is beautifully written, with everything one could want in any fantasy story.  Evil demons, good guys, bad guys and a spy...WHO is it???  EVERYTHING a great novel needs to be. Without a doubt the best in the 'Heritage of Shannara' series. If you fancy yourself a Terry Brooks fan, waste no time and grab this entire series and devour it as quickly as possible.  Also, do yourself a BIG favor and pick up 'The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara' quite possibly THE BEST of ALL THE SHANNARA novels... I know that is saying a lot, but this book is fantastic...just be aware that it leaves you with a monumental cliff hanger...	2000-10-17
US	47950934	RFPBANYT29WM1	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Pulse-Pounding Pitt Adventure!	As a TRUE Cussler fan since the 70's, I have been with Pitt through the good times and the bad, including the better Pitt books, and the, well there is no such thing as a BAD Pitt book, some are just more thrilling than others.  'Atlantis Found' is DEFINITELY one of Cussler's better Pitt books.  I have come to almost refer to Dirk as a personal friend.  I know him as good as I know my wife (almost...) and his friends are MY friends. Cussler has given me countless hours of satisfaction and entertainment over the years, and the search for the possible origins of the fabled land of Atlantis is right up Dirk's alley. I have to admit the outcome was a bit different than what I expected, but that is all a part of the fun of reading about Dirk's adventures.  Let's face it, James bond...? A WIMP.  Indiana Jones...? NERD.  Arnold Schwarzenegger...? BIG Nerd. Dirk Pitt is the REAL deal.  Tough but sophisticated, Dirk knows how to handle himslef, and in the most dire of situations, he<br />STILL manages to say just what YOU would like to say if YOU were stuck in the seemingly hopeless position he finds himself in on just about every other page.  Cussler has once again given us a thrill ride that is every bit as entertaining as any rollercoaster.  Clive makes us wonder WHY the bad guys are planning on the end-of-the-world when science says it isn't going to happen...will it or won't it?  Read and find out for yourself as Cussler takes you on an adventure that only he could<br />have written.  After reading Pitt books now for going on 20 years, it's nice to know that seeing a new novel at the bookstore can STILL get my pulse pounding and make me anxious to get it home and crack it open.  Very few, and I mean VERY FEW authors have that kind of talent...and Clive Cussler does it best...and 'Atlantis Found' is one of his very best books.	2000-10-16
US	47950934	R344GUO51ICZAG	0671014021	429829776	Icefire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a RUSH!!	I gotta hand it to Judith &amp; Garfield...having read several of their Star Trek novels (far and away the best out there, too) I was taken by surprise when I noticed a techno-thriller with their name on it.  I checked the wallet, found enough and got me a copy and took it home...fast forward a few days...!!!WOW!!!  This book can rival just about any techno-thriller out there!  If I were to have ANY criticism at all, it would be that at times the explanation of the tidal force unleashed at the bottom of the world was a bit over my head.  Now I'm by no means a genius, but it certainly SOUNDED plausible.  Fun and very fast paced, this locomotion in print is a MUST READ for any who enjoys a good action/adventure novel.  By the way, the comparisons to Clancy and Cussler are TOTALLY deserved.	2000-10-13
US	47950934	R1HBZFJTZSCNXP	051511264X	450143889	Prime Witness (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Prime Witness is Prime Entertainment	I am a bit puzzled at the negative reviews of this book.  This is the one that started me on the path to becoming a Steve Martini fan.  Granted this isn't his best courtroom thriller, but it is STILL above just about anything written by the incredibly over-rated John Grisham.  But let's not judge this book based on other authors.  The storyline is well-plotted, and very engrossing.  The forensics used to trace the evidence to the so-called perp's is not only interesting, but very entertaining and informative as well.  It has been many years since I picked up this novel, and I STILL have very fond memories of how much I enjoyed it.  I think one of the best things about this book is how it kept you in the dark as to whether or not the 3rd murder was a copycat or not.  Give it a shot, it's not literature, but it IS a fun read.	2000-10-12
US	47950934	R3CKYA82PB8CI1	0446601241	366731957	Kiss the Girls (Alex Cross)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	! WOW!	I was at the check out at a local grocery store when I picked up 'Kiss The Girls' and read the plot outline while waiting to be checked out and I just found the idea of 2 serial killers on different sides of the country COMPETING together almost impossible to resist...and with my increasingly difficult ability to keep from buying books, I gave in and plunged myself into my first Alex Cross novel.  I have since come back again and again and I love ALL the Alex Cross books I've read, and just haven't been able to get into ANY of his other books, and heaven knows I tried.  But he just can't pump out these books fast enough for me.  I have come to see Alex Cross as the new crime fighter for the millennium...a definite break-away from the stereotypes of the past, but aside from his almost-too-good-to-be-true surface, I have to admit, it's difficult to NOT like him, or his giant of-of-a-friend...it IS however easy to dislike the bad guy here. A mix of Adolf Hitler, Jeffrey Dahmer and a few extra bad guys thrown in for good measure and voila!  A REALLY BAD, BAD GUY. If you have seen the movie, do NOT let that keep you from reading this book.  Unlike the movie adaptation of 'Rising Sun' by Michael Chrichton where they completely CHANGED who had committed the murders, this story's biggest strength is getting INTO the mind of the murderer's.  Patterson is nearly flawless in his sense of plotting and the incredible speed in which he hurls you.  All in all simply a fantastic whodunnit.	2000-10-12
US	47950934	R34BJUYI6W0ZG9	0553569791	494236091	The Last Innocent Man	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A MUST for any legal-thriller fans	I have to admit that I read this AFTER reading the INCREDIBLE 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' and 'After Dark' mostly because I was SO impressed with the other two that I simply HAD to find something else by Mr. Margolin.  What I found was a novel which in many respects reminded me of 'Gone, But Not Forgotten'...It seems to me that 'The Last Innocent Man' was sort of the proving grounds for Margolin as he prepared for his true masterpiece, 'GBNF'.  That in NO WAY diminishes how much I truly enjoyed this book.  I have said it before, and I'll say it again, Margolin makes Grisham look like a law school drop-out.  I think Margolin's true talent lies in his ability to pace his books like an Indy race.  You can't help but be swept up into the story and how scenes change almost as fast as you can turn the pages. He paces his books less as chapters, and more like a few paragraphs in between different plot-lines.  If you want a book that is ALWAYS moving from one scene to another, and a courtroom battle which will stay with you long after you finish this book than do NOT pass up 'The Last Innocent Man' by Phillip Margolin, it's another home run from one of the genre's best authors.	2000-10-12
US	47950934	R2WLHYAYK06ZMC	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Meet Gary Soneji for the 1st time	To me, Gary Soneji is FAR and AWAY a better crafted character than Hannibal Lecter is.  Almost jumping off the pages and into your nightmares is what James Patterson manages to succeed in doing to you.  Here is fair warning: IF you have a penchant for dreaming about the books you read, you may want to avoid Patterson's books at all costs!  His characters are SO BAD they almost defy the words in the English language to fully describe. Gary Soneji is also one thing many serial killers are not: He is VERY smart (maybe not smart enough NOT to kill, but pretty darned intelligent) but he is also hopelessly past all ability to rehabilitate, too.  Patterson's pace is so fast that there is practically a new chapter on every-other-page.  The pacing is like a semi coming down a steep grade with no brakes.  Watch OUT!  If you are into SMART storytelling (Gary Soneji isn't the ONLY smart one in this book) than Patterson's Alex Cross novels are the bar by which everyone else is judged.	2000-10-12
US	47950934	R3VVC9NXP75TND	0812551486	479902349	Temple of the Winds (Sword of Truth, Book 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	!!!!!!FANFREAKINTASTIC!!!!!	I am a HUGE fan of the 'Sword of Truth' series, and originally I was disappointed in 'Blood of the Fold' but after reading 'Temple of the Winds' and then Re-Reading the entire series over again in anticipation of book 5, I now believe that the only weak book in the series is 'Soul of the Fire'.  This book has an amazing pacing which keeps the reader totally enthralled in anticipation of what will happen next.  You also hear a great bit of prophecy...but you have NO idea what to make of it mostly because Richard has shown that prophecy is mostly mis-leading and won't always come to pass the way you expect.  So you get an idea of what will happen, however you won't now HOW it will happen.  My compliments to Mr. Goodkind for writing a GREAT story that maintains the 'feel' of the series.  I'm not sure if 'Wizard's First Rule' can or will be surpassed, but I have high hopes that it someday WILL happen.  I have heard that Goodkind is planning on a totally different series of novels, and I for one can't wait to see his vision in another universe, although I'll miss Richard &amp; Kahlan when it happens.  'Temple of the Winds' is a great story written by a fantastic author, who is only getting better.	2000-10-11
US	47950934	R85538O4O81VC	0812524977	958863742	Critical Mass (McGarvey)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not Clancy, but still pretty good	I picked this one up, if I can be entirely honest, I did it based on the cool cover. It was, however the plot that got me to actually purchase Critical Mass. It was my first Hagberg novel, and my introduction to Kirk McGarvey, someone who would soon become my favorite spy in modern fictional print. What I really like about Kirk isn't that he could wipe the floor with Jack Bauer from 24, or take out James Bond on any given day...no, what I like about Kirk is that unlike the other two fictional characters, Kirk would most likely be wounded along the way, and dislike the art of killing at the same time. Kirk is a deeply flawed character, and I seriously believe it is his shortcomings which drew me into not just liking him, but rooting FOR him through several other books along the way.<br /><br />Critical Mass by no means is where Kirk got his start, I believe his debut (so-to-speak) came from [[ASIN:0330355643 Without Honor]], a book I STILL haven't found, and am dying to find and read...but even though I didn't read his humble beginnings, I have picked up every single McGarvey tale since. While you don't have to read all the books in order, I'd recommend doing so anyway because towards the last 5 novels or so, he begins to refer to previous exploits enough that it may spoil a surprise (or ten) if/when you eventually go back and pick them up.<br /><br />A pretty good handle on the action sequences, and he convinced me that he knew how to write a good old-fashioned action/adventure novel.  Many people seem to be making comparisons between Hagberg and Clancy, but I would like to clarify this to a degree: Hagberg writes like EARLY Clancy. In MY opinion, the last Clancy novel worth reading was 'Executive Orders'...everything since has been sub-par to downright pure drivel. Also, imagine Clancy's best novel with at least one-third of the novel trimmed down because of the repetition or outright needless additions and whatnot that he deems critical to including...Don't get me wrong, I LOVE Sum of All Fears, but he could have easily trimmed 350 pages and it would have been JUST as good (probably better).<br /><br />Kirk McGarvey is much more a spy ala James Bond than he is Jack Ryan.  That isn't to say his writing suffers, not at all, Hagberg has delivered a fantastic adventure story, much of which is totally unbelievable, but then when was James Bond believable?  I get into 007 because he's FUN more than anything else, and that is why Kirk McGarvey is Da Man!  A chip off the CIA's block and a pretty exciting one, too.  Just when you think it's over and the story is fizzling to nothing, watch out!  Hagberg is the real deal and even if he never gains the popularity of Tom Clancy or Ian Fleming, he IS a fun author to read. Oh, and the final twist? VERY worthwhile and satisfying.  Give him a try, he just might surprise you.um of All Fears, but he could have easily trimmed 350 pages and it would have been JUST as good (probably better).    Kirk McGarvey is much more a spy ala James Bond than he is Jack Ryan.  That isn't to say his writing suffers, not at all, Hagberg has delivered a fantastic adventure story, much of which is totally unbelievable, but then when was James Bond believable?  I get into 007 because he's FUN more than anything else, and that is why Kirk McGarvey is Da Man!  A chip off the CIA's block and a pretty exciting one, too.  Just when you think it's over and the story is fizzling to nothing, watch out!  Hagberg is the real deal and even if he never gains the popularity of Tom Clancy or Ian Fleming, he IS a fun author to read. Oh, and the final twist? VERY worthwhile and satisfying.  Give him a try, he just might surprise you.	2000-10-11
US	47950934	R205VS4YPRFPF8	0312867867	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	5	16	29	N	N	It really makes you THINK	Terry Goodkind is an incredible storyteller!!  As I have read some of the previous reviews I CAN see some of the similar ideas from his previous novels carried over into this one...however I can forgive this because the emotional level he sustains throughout this book is so powerful, it nullifies any negative feelings this book may spark.  All I can say is Richard's turmoil continues, as well as his penchant for being tortured at the hands of others.  At times this poor character seems like a fantasy re-telling of Biblical Job.  Everything bad that can happen to him seems to...times ten.  And to top it off, he has a vision that tells him if they attack the Order, they WILL fail for all time.  Not exactly the start to the book I was looking for...even so, it works--and well.  His travails in the 'Old World' never seem to stop his resolve to do the best he can, and the way that Goodkind describes the Order as a somewhat less civilized Communist regime, it made me think that it isn't far from what life IS like in China, and cold-war Russia.  It isn't EXACTLY the same, but living a life like this HAS been a reality for some unfortunate millions in other parts of the world.  We generally disregard that because we don't live there, and since it isn't on the news every single night, the phrase 'out of sight out of mind' tends to take over.  REAL people suffer, and all it takes to make a difference is one person like Richard who helps when he doesn't have to, gives a kind word probably when someone doesn't deserve it, goes the extra mile when it isn't required and therefore makes a difference.  Goodkind is fine-tuning his writing skills and even though he disappointed me with 'Soul Of The Fire' I felt he redeemed himself with this fantastic story. It really makes you THINK.  He also taught me a great lesson about the LIFE I live.  Kudos to Goodkind.  'Faith Of The Fallen' is a spectacular novel, and a GREAT addition to the incredible 'Sword Of Truth' series (one of the best series in print bar none).series in print bar none).	2000-10-11
US	47950934	R11GAJMIXTP9MU	051511605X	103681379	Undue Influence (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A TRUE Thriller	What a great book.  Let me start off by saying I strongly dislike novels written in first person...and yet this is one of THE best legal thrillers out there (in MY opinion).  Just fantastic!  You are gonna LOVE the characters (especially the one with all the great comments to the rude men around her) and best yet, you are going to keep wondering WHO DID IT until Martini let's you find out under his conditions.  From beginning to end, a well plotted book with great insight into the in's &amp;<br />out's of a criminal investigation.	2000-10-10
US	47950934	R1VH9VT1E6Z9EI	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	4	3	4	N	N	It kept the pages flying...	I have been a fan of Phillip Margolin ever since I picked up a copy of 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' and although in MY opinion his books have been getting less and less entertaining, I am happy to say that 'Wild Justice' seems to see Margolin back on the track of a good legal thriller.  In his last two books (The Undertakers Widow &amp; The Burning Man) the titles alone gave away WHO DID IT.  I was VERY disappointed in that.  Also, they just didn't have the pacing of 'The Last Innocent Man', 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' &amp; 'After Dark' all three EXCELLENT books.  Now add this one to that list.  (Extremely)Fast plotting, scene changes faster than you can take a breath and in general a fantastic whodunnit.  Although I figured out the bad guy a little more than half-way through, I wasn't 100% sure, which is always a great sign to me that the author has got you wondering whether or not the obvious is or isn't the one.  I still feel that 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' is by far Margolin's best work to date, and one of THE best thrillers written in the past decade easy, 'Wild Justice' IS a great read and worth the price of admission.  Also, if you are a fan of legal thrillers do yourself a favor and get to know Margolin, 'After Dark' and 'The Last Innocent Man' are among my all-time favorite courtroom thrillers.  'After Dark' kept me guessing all the way through and it STILL surprised me at the end--and if you are like me, NOTHING is better than a good surprise at the end of a fantastic book.	2000-10-10
US	47950934	R1KV1G3DBKGOGF	0553569082	928323293	After Dark	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A SUPERIOR Legal Thriller	After being completely blown away by 'Gone, But Not Forgotten' I knew I had found an author who had an amazing gift for intense storytelling...and although not quite as intense as 'GBNF' 'After Dark' has all the markings of an incredible whodunnit. I have to admit, by the time I figured it out (and that was only after Margolin let me in on it) I was totally surprised at the ending.  That doesn't happen much these days, but 'After Dark' did it for me (my wife didn't seem surprised, but I sure was) and certainly deserves a lot more than to be just another run-of- the-mill legal thriller.  Grisham on his best day hasn't written as good as this.  From the opening pages where you get to know the characters, you end up feeling for them, developing small but very realistic bonds that make their problems more like YOURS.  Just a fantastic read, and very much worth your time.	2000-10-10
US	47950934	R16EBLQOWVENOE	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another winner by Clancy	At first I was wondering WHERE in the WORLD Clancy was going at the beginning of this fantastic read, but by the time you figure that out, he's got you going in a totally different direction with several new plot lines that make you wonder the same thing. Superb plotting and a hard-to-resist desire to teach those who are responsible for drugs in this country a lesson combine to make this one amazing read.  Get ready for several hours of pure escapism, and by the time you are finished it'll make you a pure Clancy fan.  Unlike many in the 'spy' genre who haven't been able to produce anything decent since the cold war ended (John LeCarre &amp; Robert Ludlum) Tom Clancy apparently has something they lost: Vision and Imagination.  This novel is an amazing example of just what vision and imagination can do for you. STILL one of my all-time favorite Clancy stories, and even though they made a valiant effort in turning it into a movie, it just isn't possible to adapt a Clancy novel into two hours.  It's like trying to make the entire Old Testament into a made-for-TV movie...somehow you are gonna leave out something important.  I just wish the Coast Guard had the authority to do what they do in the beginning of this book to drug runners they capture...	2000-10-09
US	47950934	RD35F6ME9BE6K	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sets THE standard for Sub books...	I was never really interested in submarines, nor was I ever into thriller/type novels before picking up this incredible debut.  To this day, I'm still not sure if I have ever read a more impressive 1st novel by anyone.  I have since become almost obsessed with subs and can't seem to get enough of them.  There are any number of 'good' submarine adventure thrillers out there, however 'Red October' is still the bar by which all others are measured, and for good reason.  While other novels are written by experienced former submariners, what they make up for in personal knowledge, Tom Clancy far outweighs in sheer writing talent.  Setting the stage, and making you feel as though you are a part of what is going on is one of Clancy's trademarks and he has a great start in this one.  There is also something to be said about someone who actually INVENTS a totally unique writing style (techno-thriller).  Again, the author by which ALL other techno-thrillers are judged, Tom Clancy has written easily one of his best works first, but that isn't to say his succeeding novels are not as good, in fact I still consider 'The Sum of All Fears' to be his best book.  But you gotta hand it to someone with no previous professional writing experience who hits not only a homerun on his first time at bat, he's managed to hit it half-way 'round the globe!  GREAT book, and most of all, fun to read.	2000-10-09
US	47950934	R10125M3RQOR93	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's NOT literature--but it IS GREAT!	After the less-than-stellar 'Airframe' I was more than happy when I got into 'Timeline' and realized that Chrichton had done it again!  It's one of those books you can't put down, and even though 'time travel' is far from the most original concept in the Universe, making it original takes some impressive creativity, and in this area Chrichton does a first-rate job.  It seems that all (or most) of time travel takes place in the future, but not here, in fact going back just a hundred years isn't far ENOUGH. France...a long time ago in a world far, far away (sorry, I couldn't help myself) and I DO mean far away.  Most people have a pre-conceived notion of what life was like from watching movies and TV which came as close to showing what life was really like hundreds of years ago as you can learn brain surgery from a home-corrospondance course: NOTHING.  Now I don't for a second believe that all the research Mr. Chrichton did notwithstanding, that this is perfectly accurate either...however I don't read Chrichton's books because he can convince me that what he is writing about CAN actually HAPPEN, I buy them so I can enjoy several hours of entertainment.  I am happy to say that 'Timeline' provided me NOTHING but PURE fun.  Kudos to Michael Chrichton once again, and for those who unfortunately chose 'Airframe' as their first book to read by Chrichton, I encourage you to give this a shot.  Once again I can hardly wait for his next novel, and I would personally be thrilled if another Jurassic book was in the works, however I read an interview with Mr. Chrichton who said 'The Lost World' was his last Dinosaur book (but remember, never say never...).  I don't care what his next book is, just get it PUBLISHED SOON!	2000-10-06
US	47950934	R192QAFIYEJRPV	0380731614	431800571	Link	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Makes you THINK	I found the premise of this book to be very gripping, and gave it a try...and boy was I ever glad that I did!  Walt Becker has written a story which truly captures you from the beginning to it's stunning conclusion.  Questionable theories aside, I have wondered over the years how in the WORLD pyramids were built 3,000 years ago in South America by people who hadn't even invented the wheel...the quarry that was used to build many of these monstrous edifices were sometimes hundreds of miles away. It get's you to thinking, 'What IF??'  It in no way convinced me of anything, other than the so-called 'establishment' knows no more than I do regarding how these structures were actually built.  We may never know, but Walt Becker certainly has given us an entertaining fictionalized version of what the answers might be.  All I know is my measuring stick of whether a book is good or not is simple:  When I'm NOT reading it, am I THINKING about it?  If so, then it MUST be good.  I have thought about this book MANY times since I finished it, and that doesn't happen all that often these days.  Great plotting and incredible adventure piled on top of the supernatural, a fantastic read!  I am anxious to see how Walt Becker attempts to top this, and I am fervently hoping he manages to do so.	2000-10-04
US	47950934	RBUFAWQ67809C	0345370740	596230492	The Scions of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book One) (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the better fantasy stories...	I purchased this book the day it came out many years ago...it wasn't until I was about finished that I realized that Terry Brooks was in NO way going to be able to tie up all the loose ends, and I was pleasantly surprised to realize that it was just the first in a series of 4-books.  I was disappointed that it didn't end all-of-a-sudden...mostly because I am very impatient when it comes to reading books that are not just good, but leave you hanging at the end.  This is one such book, VERY good, and it also just ends abruptly with the characters not even close to achieving their goals.  The quest that the shade of Allanon tricks them into going on seems at first to be impossible, and well you never get to know the answer because it takes another three books to find out ultimately what happens.  This was perhaps my favorite of the 4 in the 'Heritage' series with the possible exception of 'The Elf Queen' which was exceptional as well.  I MUST admit that as much as I view Terry Brooks as an amazingly gifted author, I felt that 'The Talismans' wrapped things up a little too quickly.  It seemed as though he was trying to reach a deadline by the editor, and wrapped things up almost too neatly.  I can't explain it, I just felt this way even after reading it the 2nd time as well.  This in NO way means it isn't a great book, it IS!  But books 1 and 3 are MY favorite of this series.  And if you want a REAL Shannara treat, check out 'The Voyage of The Jerle Shannara' already MY vote as the all-time best novel by Terry Brooks.  Long live 'Shannara'!	2000-10-02
US	47950934	R1N7J432PYPTEI	0345285549	238137791	The Elfstones of Shannara (Shannara, No. 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	FORGET Harry Potter, THIS book is the REAL THING!	Terry Brooks has written many wonderful novels, and deserves all the positive praise he has ever received, but 'The Elfstones' is without-a-doubt his crowning achievement.  All of his terrific Shannara books are worth reading, but this one holds a special place for me.  I read it in High School when it first came out and have since read it again and again, and I have always come to be enthralled at the amazing plot, the likeable characters and how I questioned those who Terry wanted me to question, only to find out some were actually good guys, and some turned out to be fantastically evil.  The images of the Land as Brooks describes it actually comes to life, and the charge that Allanon gives to poor Wil is an amazing one: protect someone using a magic you hardly understand or even know how to call upon, and do it against incredible odds.  The ending truly surprised me, and brought me almost to tears.  I came to appreciate and bond with these people, and to lose one, even for a good cause was difficult to take.  A well written, exciting and VERY enjoyable novel which delivers on ALL accounts.  One of the very best books I have ever read, and I haven't read everything, but I have read a LOT of books.  Fantasty lovers who have yet to read the Shannara series have NO idea how good the genre can actually be until they pick up something by Terry Brooks.  The Elfstones of Shannara is simply put a wonderful novel.  It isn't literature, but it IS fantastic.  Escape into Terry's wonderful imagination for a while and you too will find yourself going back again and again.  It's like taking your children to Disneyland...it's an experience you want to capture over and over again.  I loved this book when I first read it, and after many re-reads still holds the #1 place in my heart for a fantasy story.	2000-10-02
US	47950934	R3B4B0NJZMJYUA	0345396545	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of THE best...	Terry Brooks has facinated and entertained fantasy lovers since his incredible debut in '77 (The Sword of Shannara) and has yet to deliver a poor novel...and The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara is NO exception.  I constantly found myself saying, 'This is good...but is it as good as...?' and by the time I reached the cliff-hanger (which really IS cruel of him to leave us wanting more in such a manner...) I was left literally yearning for more. I had known that this was going to be a series, but was hoping against hope that by the end he somehow would have tied up a few loose ends but you can forget that happening here.  This story was amazingly fun and captivated me from page 1 through to the conclusion--which really isn't a conclusion at all, that isn't going to happen until book 3 (due sometime in 2002--oh how CRUEL to make us wait so looooong...).  I remember enjoying the 'Heritage of Shannara' very much, and looking forward to the next installment, however nowhere near as much as I am looking ahead to book 2 in THIS series.  Terry Brooks is to be commended on a return to (in MY opinion) the greatest fantasy series in print with an exceptional installment.  The new characters are great, you learn to love them or despise them according to what Brooks lets you know about them, and you are CONSTANTLY wondering who the 'spy' is (although I think Brooks let's you in on who it is at the end--the VERY end).  Pick this one up before it comes out in paperback, mostly due to it's intricate cover that is truly one of the best out there and easily the coolest Shannara cover to date.  True Shannara fans will NOT be disappointed, those who expect the impossible in a novel might be, but then those folks never enjoy anything good anyway.  READ THIS BOOK!!!  Terry, I'm pleading here, don't make us wait so long...couldn't you just release book 2 by say, Christmas...?  Just a thought.  Love your stuff.	2000-09-28
US	47950934	R2Q3809S3HBXLP	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Better than MOST people think	I am puzzled at the defaming comments in regarding 'The Runelords'.  I am increasingly confused at those who seem to dislike this book yet claim Robert Jordan is the fantasy equal of Shakespeare.  Get REAL.  Jordan is 'okay' at best (in MY opinion, of course) and doesn't even come close to being as entertaining as 'The Runelords' or even the Harry Potter books. Now I KNOW I've fuffled a few feathers by saying this, but it  honestly IS how I feel.  Now back to David Farland's fantastic<br />adventure.  What an amazing novel.  This is a different style of fantasy, more midievel than almost anything out there, in fact I know of no other fantasy series right now written quite the same way this one is.  Now, if you just realize that it is different, and not a clone of the kings of fantasy which is so vast in fantasy novels today, I think most folks can enjoy this book as it was meant to be.  I don't buy a book because it's just like another by a different author, I do it because I am hoping that it'll entertain me, which is really the ONLY reason why I buy books to begin with.  OVER-Analyzing storylines has GOT to be exhausting.  WHY do it??  It's like sitting through a Star Wars movie and having someone next to you be critical of the plot by saying, &quot;That can't really happen!&quot; Just ENJOY the movie! I say the same about this book.  I seriously doubt that David Farland is trying to make some kind of political statement in this story.  The magic is incredibly original and I can't think of anywhere that made me totally predict what was going to happen next with any accuracy.  For MY money, this book was worth every penny, and the sequel was just as good, if not better.  Judge for yourself and ignore the naysayers out there who believe that they could write better (if they could, why AREN'T they??). David Farland has a fantastic beginning to a great series here. By the way, if this book isn't any good, why did Terry Brooks claim it was?	2000-09-21
