US	48115935	RUSETJP9B9E5U	0310218950	622603436	Greek Grammar Beyond the Basics: An Exegetical Syntax of the New Testament with Scripture, Subject, and Greek Word Indexes	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A necessity, but prepared to work!	This book may come as a shock to the student who turns to it fresh from first-year Greek.  It is thick.  It is dense.  It is complicated.  It is also cautious and tentative in places, pointing out that in some areas Greek grammar is either not fully understood or is undergoing re-examination.  That last lesson may be worth the price of the book alone, if it brings about a proper attitude of humility in the exegete.<br />Although self-described as a textbook, it is difficult to read straight through.  I prefer to graze short sections at a time to get acquainted with the layout and topics.  Mainly I use it in conjunction with Scripture study by consulting the (very useful) index of keyed passages.  The other indices, however, are cumbersome to use since the entries are not sufficiently subdivided -- you may have to turn to seven or eight pages before you find the information you need.<br />You haven't attained basic proficiency in NT Greek until you are broadly conversant with the subject matter of this book.  Keep it next to your Greek Testament.	2004-03-28
US	48115935	R1Y3SWSP1QUOBL	0685151204	313058423	First Year of Greek	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's still available	I used this book to learn Attic Greek after I had successfully completed an introduction to Koine.  For a long-in-the-tooth textbook, it has much to be commended:  it gives a wide survey of Greek authors, including some memorable lines of poetry and extended passages from Plato and Xenophon; also, there are plenty of exercises, including oral drills (and exercises that can be easily adapted to oral work).  On the downside, the glossary at the back is incomplete, and the separation of grammar, exercises, and lessons into different parts might seem unwieldy to most students.  In short, a lot of good ideas went into the making of this grammar, but the layout and presentation could stand to be improved.<br />This book was recently reprinted unaltered in paperback under the title Ancient Greek Super Review -- available here at Amazon.  Don't be misled by the title of the reprint:  this isn't a \\"review\\" text, it's a first-year grammar.	2004-03-27
US	48115935	R3HNGR57GIWIWV	0878913904	613926880	Ancient & Classical Greek Super Review (Super Reviews Study Guides)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	It's a reprint	This is actually a reprint of the old textbook &quot;First Year of Greek&quot; by James T. Allen.  For more information about it, see the reviews posted here at Amazon under that title.	2004-03-27
US	48115935	R776U8O5I4Q0N	0785262385	905260444	More Than a Skeleton: A Novel	Books	1	8	18	N	N	Of the making of many books, there is no end	Picture this:  A man appears in modern Galilee who reproduces all the miracles of the Gospels.  The blind see.  A dead man is raised.  And the man--Joshua ben-Yosef, wouldn't you know--offers a new revelation about God.  Could it be?  Has Jesus come a second time?<br />Rather far-fetched in the abstract.  And unfortunately, not very convincing in the finished product.  An author needs more than theological training to carry off something this ambitious.  Nor does the book succeed on purely literary qualities.  The narration is flat; the dialogue is strained -- one man's impression, evidently, of how daredevil Harvard profs and their peers ought to speak:  \\"How in the very devil,\\" and so on.  All told this book bears the marks of a work written in haste and sent for publication with little revision.  I almost pity the author that no one stopped him from writing this line:  \\"But since truth was rolling out like a crystal stream, far be it from him to play beaver and build a dam to halt the flow.\\"<br />If that made you wince, be thankful I've spared you the attempts at foreign accents that come in the press conference scene at the end.  A tour de force it is not.<br />The unveiling, when the would-be Messiah reveals his tricks, reads like an homage to Scooby Doo.  You almost expect a snarl at \\"meddlers\\" and \\"do-gooders.\\"  And when the author can't think of a convincing explanation for something, well, presto!  That's just more evidence of the antagonist's unprecedented genius.  He's so smart not even the author knows how he hacked into the world's computers.<br />C. S. Lewis, who indeed was a great Christian writer, observed that there are no special rules that govern \\"Christian\\" fiction.  A novel is to be judged good on its literary merits, not its theological bona fides.  If the author wants to refute modern clones of the Arian heresy, there is a place for apologetics, and it's not in the pages of a potboiler.	2004-01-27
US	48115935	R2PPY1SZWNK13V	0929239571	292882269	My Utmost for His Highest	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Pearl of Great Price	I am an avid reader of devotional guides, and even something of a collector of them; I have works from the Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox traditions.  All have something valuable to offer but none have offered so much to me as this one.  Whenever your faith seems tepid and the church seems heavy on rules and devoid of zeal, let this book remind you to turn your face to God, trust in his Son, and receive his Spirit.  If there could be no Bible, this book alone could teach the world faith.<br />If anything seems to be absent from Chambers, it is what we might call \\"practical\\" or \\"concrete\\" guidance to life in the world.  But that is because he expects God will reveal such things to you in His time, and for him to provide specific counsel, which may not be correct for you in your circumstances, would be rash.<br />Please accept my recommendation that you avoid the so-called updated edition and get an edition of this book with Chambers' unaltered words.  Chambers wrote with a clear, strong voice, filled with encouragement and benevolence.  He was a man sure of the message he had to preach, and thus spoke free of artifice and affectation, yet with precision and warmth and eloquence.  Struggle a little with his elegant diction and older turns of phrase rather than let his jewel be dimmed.	2004-01-18
US	48115935	R5G409TN9N2KX	0195123328	344735750	Handbook to Life in Ancient Rome	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Informative one-volume encyclopedia of Rome	One of the first things the serious student of Roman history learns is how complicated the subject is.  The neat, orderly account in the freshman history text quickly proves to be misleading (while at the same time a testimony to the painstaking efforts of scholars).  When the minutiae become overwhelming, and you have trouble relating or remembering all the parts, that's a good time to refer to this handbook--whether you need to know something basic, like who was emperor in 192 or what the offices were in the cursus honorum, or want to know something more specialized, like which legions Caesar commanded.  Its articles have the right balance of detail and brevity to make them useful for both beginning and advanced students.  <br />The authors, being archaeologists, devote a lot of space to material culture.  Students should appreciate this; classroom study of ancient Rome usually emphasizes literary monuments, and it's the things, the &quot;stuff,&quot; the common objects of daily life, which by their sheer ordinariness are least likely to be described by authors.  Unfortunately, this does mean that certain other topics are given short shrift.  There is virtually no material on Roman law--its content, its development, and its institutions--unless you're content with a few paragraphs and references.  There's a great section on arms and armor, but almost nothing on the specific rights of citizenship.<br />The perfect guide to ancient Rome probably hasn't been written yet, but until it appears, I'm using this one and do give it my recommendation.  Great for filling in the background of your picture of Roman life.	2002-07-26
US	48115935	R3U6A9UCRG9MZR	0865164878	156353400	Seneca's Moral Epistles (English and Latin Edition)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Fantastic!  (but not quite perfect...)	Seneca is a terrific read.  Everything about his moral epistles--their style, their topics--evokes the chaotic, whirling, world-out-of-balance picture associated with the Roman Empire in the 1st century A.D.  One hears in his voice the tension of a man earnestly trying to be a \\"healer of souls\\" while acknowledging that in maddening times, it's hard enough work maintaining the health of one's own.  In short, his epistles are good reading for the modern student staring out on a world that seems to be spinning out of any one man or nation's control.  Seneca probably would enjoy a greater readership in schools if it weren't for that taint of \\"Silver Age\\" attached to the literature of his generation.<br />He is not, after all, difficult to read.  One quickly gets the hang of his style--his fondness for the pithy remark, unexpected reversal, or direct address to the reader; one learns to take the platitudes along with the more penetrating and insightful passages.  For the Latin teacher (or independent yet highly-motivated student) who'd like to give Seneca a try in the classroom, Motto's edition is a congenial one.  The selection of letters is numerous (40 or so) and wide-ranging.  Chapter vocabularies, which include what I would call some elementary words, save the beginning or intermediate student time not having to flip to the glossary in the back.  I find fault only with the commentary, which seems unusually sparse.  In some places, it hardly numbers four or five lines.  Teachers must therefore be prepared to explain a lot of grammar and syntax, not to mention content, to their students.  But even with that shortcoming, I hope teachers and students alike will enjoy and treasure this edition.	2002-07-19
US	48115935	R23U2UUR6JZ1IQ	0809121441	8161589	William Law: A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life, The Spirit of Love (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Beatific	To find a man like William Law in 17th century England is as unexpected as finding a violet blooming in the Arctic.  It's almost beyond anyone's powers to fully describe the beauty, benevolence, and wisdom--and good solid sense--of his spiritual advice.  Consider instead the character of those who have praised him:  there's Samuel Johnson, who took up Law in a frivolous mood in his youth and found himself nearly bowled over; or closer to our own age, C. S. Lewis and Aldous Huxley.  The most memorable parts of the _Serious_Call_ are those where Law (following the model of Theophrastus's _Characters_) describes several spiritual types and how their natures relate to the pursuit of the devout life.  The _Spirit_of_Love_ is a later work, written after Law had been influenced by the German mystic Behmen; if you're not acquainted with Christian mysticism, it might be hard to follow.  But do not miss Law's account of the Atonement, particularly if you're one who has always felt scandalized by the &quot;blood sacrifice&quot; theology emphasized in traditional Protestantism.	2002-06-25
US	48115935	R25P08S56W7IM0	066424761X	681513829	New Testament Words (The William Barclay Library)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Basic Word Studies	Most modern Christians, Catholic or not, are well versed in Latinate theological terms and notions.  But how well do they know the Greek words and ideas of the Scriptures themselves?  Despite that the Greek New Testament has been back in the West for several centuries now, its vocabulary still has not become a part of the mental furniture of the common Christian.  Logos, agape, kyrie eleison....  Can you go any further?  And more importantly, how well do you understand these words, words that were spoken, prayed, discussed, and debated almost every day in the ancient church?<br />Even if the only Greek you know is &quot;alpha&quot; and &quot;omega&quot;, Barclay's little classic is an enjoyable and accessible place to start your word studies.  (It might even encourage you to learn Greek!)  In a series of graceful short essays, Barclay examines a few dozen important or interesting words in light of their biblical and classical usage; what he comes up with is one part philology and one part devotional reading. <br />For the student who has some Greek, this book will remind him or her why one studies Greek in the first place.  It should also cure the beginning student of the tendency to impose English meanings and connotations on Greek words, treating the Greek as if it were only elaborate dress for his own thoughts--a code, and not a language.<br />Written in 1964, some of the information might be out of date in the scholarly world; also, considering that a number of the words have been the subjects of whole books, one must not expect Barclay's accounts to be the end-all and be-all.  But there is much good to be had from this book, and I recommend it both for individual study and small-group discussion.	2002-06-07
US	48115935	R1SOXURWD7NVAP	0310205824	298119829	A Graded Reader of Biblical Greek	Books	4	108	109	N	N	Training Wheels for the New Testament	So.  You've finished first-year Greek, you've got a lexicon at your side, maybe an advanced grammar as well;  what's next?  Dive straight into the Greek New Testament, clutching commentaries and reference works to keep you afloat?  You could...but if you'd prefer to ease your way gently into the New Testament, consider putting the Nestle-Aland back on the shelf and first working your way through this reader.  Its aim is to teach how to read Greek with facility, an essential skill for accurate exegesis and interpretation.  Twenty selections survey nearly all the books of the New Testament and are not altered or abridged from their sources.  To aid the learner, abundant footnoting navigates the hard parts and calls attention to nuances and important details.  The novel system of phrasing taught in this book is easy to understand and should help the student still mastering Greek syntax to keep up with St. Paul and his long discursive sentences.  Seminary students will appreciate the sample sermon outlines that accompany the early chapters, as examples of how to turn study into instruction.<br />This reader is meant to follow Mounce's well-received &quot;Basics of Biblical Greek,&quot; but does not depend on it; you can come having studied from any textbook of basic Greek.  It was also written to be compatible with Wallace's &quot;Greek Grammar Beyond the Basics,&quot; but, once again, does not explicitly require it. <br />Keep in mind that the sole purpose of this reader is for practice reading Greek, and you should not be disappointed with the contents.  There are many things it does not include.  It does not cover the manuscript tradition or the critical apparatus, or teach how to weigh variant readings.  It does not set passages in their historical or Scriptural context, or address questions of dating and authorship.  There is no treatment of stylistic differences or comparisons with non-biblical Koine.  If Mounce had crammed in such information, this book would have been twice as long and probably not any more helpful.  And while the readings are representative of the books of the New Testament (and Mounce usually explains in the headnotes why each passage was chosen), one should not assume that they form a mini-course in theology or represent the most canonical of the canonical.<br />Indeed, any teacher of NT Greek could draw up a similar set of graded readings for second-year students, but with this reasonably-priced book, all the work of transcribing and annotating is already done.	2002-06-07
US	48115935	R34ZVDX2FB99BA	1570612404	240133511	Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades: The Complete Guide to Natural Gardening	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Simple, practical, reliable	Gardening in the Pacific Northwest has its own challenges; it's not just a matter of adjusting planting dates, and choosing varieties with the fewest days to maturity, and praying like Joshua for the sun to stand still when it's 75 and sunny.  I do nothing in my garden without first consulting this book.  The author, Steve Solomon, appears to have tested every technique out there, and he explains not just what has succeeded but why other methods have not succeeded as well--particularly those methods championed by gardeners in other parts of the country.  It's a little like sitting in on a courteous but energetic debate.<br />You will learn:  how to manage your soil and keep it fertile the organic way; how to plan your garden, whether you only want to grow summertime favorites or aim for year-round self-sufficiency; which varieties do best, and how to cultivate them; what an experienced seedman has to say about seeds; and how to irrigate--or how not to, if you want to experiment with dry-gardening (yes, dry-gardening in the Northwest!).<br />Solomon writes clearly and cuts through a lot of complexity--or to put it better, illustrates that there is a certain style of simplicity that produces a fuller and richer complexity.	2002-05-14
US	48115935	R3M7E49IOOMQLU	1566630185	665633492	After Many a Summer Dies the Swan	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Huxley's "middle period"	Lurking in the back of every thinking Christian's mind must be this fear:  yes, so far Religion has successfully reconciled itself to Science's every last finding.  Perhaps the Creation account isn't supposed to be taken literally; maybe the world wasn't really fashioned in six days.  But supposing science were to find a way to eliminate death.  After all, death appears to be a matter of biology, and should be subject to natural laws.  What happens to religion then?<br />That isn't exactly the question that Huxley addresses in this novel, but it is similar--and his answer is one that should surprise Religion and Science both.  And he delivers it with a conclusion so lurid and grotesque it will haunt you long after the rest of the book has faded away.<br />But getting to the conclusion is the problem.  I am a great admirer of Huxley, yet I consider this to be one of his weaker books.  The scientific machinery, both that which leads to the conclusion and that which explains it, is a tad clumsy--H. G. Wells _Invisible_Man_ clumsy.  It's easy to pardon Huxley for this; the science is merely a plot device.  But it still seems like a weakness to me.<br />Since Huxley was born to write novels of ideas, his characters are (as usual) more types than individuals.  Here they almost seem to have been an annoyance, as if regarded by their author as a necessary evil between him and the exploration of ideas.  Stoyte strides on to the scene as a caricature and never can be taken seriously thereafter as a portrait of the homme moyen sensuel.  His mistress is of a physical type that Huxley clearly loathed; her peculiar residue of childhood Catholicism fails to make her complex or wholly interesting.  Huxley's attempt at Steinbeck's game must not have pleased even himself:  after one abortive appearance of an Okie named Bill, migrant farmworkers disappear into the generalization of their class.<br />Obispo is sharp, as a kind of unexpectedly suave Mephistopheles doing Stoyte's biddingin his laboratory.  (Even in satire, Faust always loses.)  But the only characters with any real depth are Pordage and Propter:  Pordage, an urbane scholar but stunted human being; Propter, a non-denominational mystic and philosopher-saint of the orange groves.  It is not presuming too much to interpret these two as competing sides of Huxley's personality.  Their conversations and monologues make for the most interesting reading:  this is a novel desperately trying to break into an essay.  Huxley fits in many provocative ideas about God, time, language, literature, culture.  It's a valuable record of where his thoughts were leading at this point in his career.<br />But had Huxley written an essay instead, there would have been no place for his brilliant rendition of a skeptical and dissolute earl's epigrammatic journal--just one example among many of Huxley's notable stylistic versatility.<br />I hope readers who enjoy any part of this book go on to Huxley's later fiction, like _Island_ or _The_Devils_of_Loudun_.  And don't miss any of his later non-fiction, above all the summa of his spiritual investigations, _The_Perennial_Philosophy_.	2002-05-08
US	48115935	R30GFGEOY5U0AB	0674006003	658471726	Aeneas to Augustus: A Beginning Latin Reader for College Students, Second Edition	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Florilegium praeclarissimum	This is not just a great Latin reader, it's one of the best anthologies I've seen in any language.  Actually, it's two readers in one:  the first half amounts to a digest of Roman history down to Augustus, based entirely on original texts, while the second offers a literary history of the same period, mixing prose and verse.  Both halves proceed at approximately the same pace, beginning with very simple Latin and ending with selections of moderate to advanced difficulty.  Passages average a page long, or just long enough to fill a single period of class discussion.  The notes are amazingly good.  Besides clarifying difficult points of grammar or syntax, they call attention to many cultural and political details which otherwise might fly right past the tyro.<br />Appropriate for students who have completed Wheelock or the equivalent.  (And superior, in my opinion, to the Wheelock reader, even though this one seems drier.)  Every Latin student should have a course in this before going on to study individual authors.	2002-03-23
US	48115935	R6KRQXIUTJ0LL	0801021472	508484125	Introducing Biblical Hebrew	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Bravo!  Five well-deserved stars!	Oh, to be learning Hebrew for the first time!  I wish this book had been around when I first learned my aleph, beth, gimel's.  Ross has produced a triumph of an introductory textbook.  Not only are the essentials of the language here, but much additional, yet useful information typically left for the student to dig out of reference grammars.  Beyond the standard set of paradigms, basic syntax is covered well, and principles of word formation are treated with what I can only call elegance.  Best of all, the final section teaches actual analysis of the BHS edition of the Hebrew Bible, including use of the critical apparatus.  Let the spirit of prophecy come over me:  Ross will become the standard for the next generation of seminary students!	2002-03-21
US	48115935	R1ZS9TVH5RQ9MF	0806119373	684686014	Homeric Greek: A Book for Beginners	Books	3	32	34	N	N	Not a true revision; in some ways, inferior to the original	If you already own this book in its original form, you don't need to replace it with this edition.  Despite the publisher's claim that this is a &quot;thorough, up-to-date revision,&quot; it's hardly been touched.  Not that this classic couldn't stand to be revised.  As good as it is, I'm sure everyone who has used it can think of several ways to improve it.  For one thing, an updated commentary and bibliography would be appreciated; the world of Homeric scholarship has certainly advanced since 1959.  Yet instead of enlarging the commentary, Wright has actually reduced it.  Out has gone, for instance, all the provocative parallels between episodes in the Iliad and the Old Testament.  True, none of this shed light on Homeric grammar (Wright's stated but selectively applied criterion for what made the cut), but it made for good reading, especially for those with an interest in comparative religion and mythology.  Gone, too, is the charming ditty that began, &quot;Polyphloisboisterous Homer of old....&quot;  Why drain the color out of Pharr's notes this way?  In its place, Wright has supplied grammatical headnotes to each chapter, ostensibly to help students along whose command of English grammar might be weak.  In my estimation, though, these notes are too short to be useful--if your grammar is that poor, you're still going to need a teacher to explain everything.  In some cases, Wright simply repeats, in condensed form, material that was already present in the grammar section.<br />Please don't get me wrong.  This textbook is still a great way to learn Homeric Greek.  (The initial learning curve is very steep, but by the time you make it to lesson thirty or so, it's smooth sailing to the end.)  Evaluated as a revision, though, it falls far short of any standard I could name.  IMHO, Wright does not deserve any credit for this edition.  I do hope it was the publisher's decision, not his, to give his name top billing on the cover, as every classical scholar knows what happens to those guilty of hubris.	2002-03-19
US	48115935	R1TMNNQPI0LWS2	0802065481	393081314	A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary (MART: The Medieval Academy Reprints for Teaching)	Books	4	76	76	N	N	Affordable, and adequate for general use	Students, usually a penurious lot, are in a pickle when it comes to dictionaries of ancient languages: a good one is essential, but often expensive.  This paperback reprint offers a happy solution, a reasonably-priced dictionary of first resort.  This is where to go when all you need is the meaning of a word.  Words, their definitions, a few notes--it's really just a glorified glossary.  Normalized spellings are used, but variants are included and cross-referenced.  The notes consist mainly of abbreviated references to original texts and more advanced works, including the OED (or the NED as it was called when this dictionary first saw print).  Latin borrowings are marked, but cognates in other Germanic languages are not supplied--save a few exceptions that occur maybe once every seven pages for no reason I can discern.<br />A sample entry might give you a better sense of how this dictionary is organized.<br />bearm I. (a) m. lap, bosom, breast, Lk : middle, inside: (+)possession.  II. emotion, excitement? PPs 118. III.=beorma  <br />[Lk = Gospel of Luke; (+) = poetical; PPs = Paris Psalter.]	2002-03-17
US	48115935	R3EM9KL1RE638J	0806108282	85018800	Homeric Vocabularies: Greek and English Word-Lists for the Study of Homer	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Simple but effective	This wordlist is of inestimable value to all those few yet thrice-blessed who still learn to read Homer in Greek.  By the time you finish it, you will have at least a nodding acquaintance with every word that appears ten times or more in the Iliad and Odyssey.  That may indeed leave a trireme of unknown words, but trust me, knowing the most frequent ones makes it much easier to get the gist of a passage before running to the lexicon.  If you are learning Homer from Pharr--as nearly everyone does--this is a good reference to consult to see which words in his chapter vocabularies are worth committing to your active memory.  (I wish that Pharr had marked the words of infrequent occurrence.  Wright should have done this in his &quot;revision&quot; but he didn't really revise Pharr much at all.)<br />There is only one shortcoming, though I do consider it a serious one:  the list of verbs does not include principal parts, and the noun list does not give genders or stems.  You could easily write in the article and genitive forms for the nouns, but good luck trying to fit the five remaining principal parts of a verb on the same line as its entry.  So no matter how you solve this problem, you will still need to look up nearly every word.  That's an onerous task to inflict on a beginner.  With a class of students, though, I suppose the teacher could divide up the drudge-work.	2002-03-12
US	48115935	R14EJV6IZ4LTYU	0812014480	823667867	The Art of Styling Sentences: 20 Patterns for Success	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Recommended, but just barely	The authors deserve credit for having the right idea.  Imitation is an efficient way to teach writing.  However, even though _Styling_Sentences_ has some good tips and will help any young writer to improve, on the whole, it is incomplete, largely because of the authors' own incomplete understanding of syntax.  The idea that writing consists of taking an S-V-O &quot;kernel sentence&quot; and elaborating it is fine, but weak.  It's too simple.  More useful for students is to learn the sentence in terms of its and its clauses' functions:  purpose, concession, proviso, etc.--all the things students used to learn from Latin.  After that, one can add modifiers and appositives and begin discussing the artful placement of all these pieces.  That's not what this book does, though; it foregoes a functional analysis of sentence patterns for a purely formal one.  Where style is a matter of form, this approach succeeds.  The section on ordering a series is one such example, and in it the authors do an excellent job of showing writers how to avoid monotony.  Likewise, the treatment of punctuation is done well, driving home the subtle differences between the comma, dash, and parentheses.  Also good, but not exactly great, are the sections on modifier placement and repetition of key terms.  But the final section, on &quot;assorted patterns,&quot; is an eclectic and hardly exhaustive mix of sentence types where the authors' lack of organizational principle shows up most clearly.  In that section another problem with this book becomes obvious:  sometimes sentence patterns can't be studied without considering overarching rhetorical strategies.  To learn that subject, I strongly recommend _Style:_10_Lessons_, by Wright.  _Styling_Sentences_ will probably be more useful to you if read as a supplement to that book.<br />_Styling_ has some other minor flaws.  The diagrams, created on a word processor, are poorly drawn and confusing.  The authors' decision to label the sentence patterns bynumber seems to me to add a needless and arbitary layer of complexity.  I shudder at the thought of students analyzing papers in this way:  &quot;Here you use a #9a, followed by a #6....&quot;  Far easier to use, and certainly easier to remember, would be simple descriptive names.  If teachers need something shorter for marking papers, they could just abbreviate.  Finally, some of the authors' explanations are simply bad.  Likening a comma to a &quot;hiccup&quot; is misleading (a hiccup is nothing like the short, natural pause in speech a comma represents), and look at how they explain the absolute construction or the difference between periodic and loose sentences.  Moments like those convince me that the authors, for professors of English, are not very well schooled in traditional grammar and syntax, and need to get their book to a grammarian quickly for a drastic overhaul.	2002-03-08
US	48115935	R1GVXND3K5T9Z1	0631226362	995865548	A Guide to Old English	Books	4	64	65	N	N	Great for English majors, not so great for linguists	_A_Guide_to_Old_English_ deserves its popularity in schools and is probably the best self-contained course in the subject for the general student of English.  If you're an independent learner who's gotten it into your head to learn OE, this is also a good choice; in fact, the authors have opened their hearts to autodidacts and help you navigate your way through the book.  I would hope, however, that you have already studied at least one inflected language (German is ideal).  This book really should be subtitled _A_Reader's_Guide_, since the authors aim is to prepare beginners to decipher actual texts, not just memorize paradigms.  To this end they acknowledge up front that many of the declensions are confused in the MSS; they note words likely to cause trouble and warn of places where singular and plural (or different cases, etc.) are likely to be mistaken for each other.  The section on syntax is much fuller than is typical of first grammars--evidence of wise heads, as I see it, since syntax is much more important in OE than most students and perhaps some teachers realize.  Also included is a long list of conjunctive phrases, a hallmark of OE and as important to know as all the subordinating constructions are in Latin.  The reading selections are judiciously chosen, edited, and ordered.  Delightful, and uncommon in works of this nature, are the occasional glimpses of the authors' personality that break through now and then:  moments of humane warmth, or impatience with bumptious scholars (no names).<br />What this book lacks, however, is much historical or comparative linguistic detail.  You would never know there was such a thing as i-stems, for example.  The u-declension of nouns is identified by name, but no such honor is awarded the r-declension.  If memory serves, the section on syntax, lengthy and helpful as it is, rarely draws the parallels with German that the reader might be interested to know.  Thus students interested in Germanics--the ol' time philology--will need to supplement Mitchell and Robinson very early on in their studies.  (If such things are of no interest to you, you may upgrade this review to 5 stars...but shame on you!!)	2002-02-15
US	48115935	R3KE1YLJD8HQVK	0805209700	745465161	The Good Life: Helen and Scott Nearing's Sixty Years of Self-Sufficient Living	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Priceless document, charmingly written	Some books speak to us where we are, others inspire us with what we may become.  Not everyone will respond to the Nearings' vision of the good life, and some of you who do have dreams of living beyond the sidewalk may not find their account entirely useful--but it's still a consolation to know such a life can be lived.  Society could not solve all of its ills if everyone tried to live like the Nearings, but who could doubt whether making their aims ours isn't a step in the right direction:  reducing wants, cooperating with Nature, neither exploiting nor being exploited.  _Good_Life_ is often called the _Walden_ of the 20th century, a comparison both helpful and misleading; it's more like an expansion of Thoreau's first chapter.  And remember, the Nearings followed this course of life to the end of their days.  <br />The Nearings include a great deal of practical advice, all of which is fascinating to read but not all of which may be useful to prospective homesteaders--even those in New England, where Scott and Helen made their home (twice).  The best anyone in a different region can do is to use the Nearings' account as a model.  Absorb the spirit of their activities, if you cannot follow them in substance.  Live locally, in tune with the seasons, and meet your needs with your immediate resources.  And count on working hard, your own labor being free and in virtually endless supply.  One important lesson to be learned from the Nearings (also the advice of many homesteaders) is that you cannot expect to live entirely off the land.  Some income is necessary, some inputs may have to come from the larger economic sphere.  The Nearings sold maple syrup; other homesteaders retain some sort of workworld employment.<br />If you like this book, you might also wish to read Scott Nearing's autobiography, &quot;The Making of a Radical.&quot;  Scott was a university professor in economics nearly a century ago who lost his position when he spoke out against child labor.  Finally,let me note that I am not a homesteader, though books like _The_Good_Life_ have inspired me to find simpler and healthier solutions to many of life's challenges.  May you too!	2002-02-08
US	48115935	R10HBHPC0TSLUN	0156186004	535090105	A Collection of Essays	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Still as fresh and incisive as when they were written	Orwell occupies a position of honor in American high schools enjoyed by few other writers besides Shakespeare:  his name appears more than once on the required reading list.  Thus if you're an American, you've all but certainly read _1984_ and _Animal_Farm_, and probably \\"Shooting an Elephant\\"; if you went to college, \\"Politics and the English Language\\" must also have come your way in a writing course.  Don't stop there.  The work of a mind of uncommon independence, all of Orwell's essays deserve to be read.  They are some of the most memorable and thought-provoking pieces of prose in the language, and an example of the true power of the essay.  Contrast them to the usual exercises in narcissism... found in most periodicals.<br />Do not suspend your critical judgment, however.  Orwell seems never to have let his guard down, so much so that occasionally he breaches the wall separating sober skepticism from jaded cynicism.  There is little that is beautiful in Orwell's universe, little worthy of admiration or enjoyment for its own sake.  His evaluation of Gandhi, for instance:  it's a good piece and a necessary corrective, but, forgive me, the final sentence may be the unseemliest backhanded compliment I've ever read in an author I respect.  Then there's his essay on Dickens.  When Orwell offers as evidence of Dickens' \\"bourgeois\\" mind Pip's snobbish ingratitude to Magwitch, I have to believe--unless I'm misreading him or Dickens--he's simply wrong.  Was his copy of _Great_Expectations_ missing the last hundred pages?  Pip does come to repent of his having been an ungrateful prig.  \\"For now my repugnance to [Magwitch] had all melted away....I only saw in him a much better man than I had been to Joe.\\"<br />But it's still a great and perceptive essay, like all those in the book.	2002-02-03
US	48115935	R1YZ27DUBCH029	0192835858	126277941	Selected Philosophical Writings (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A model anthology	McDermott has provided the general reader with an excellent introduction to the substance of Aquinas's thought.  Selections are taken from several works, not just the Summa Theologiae, and are arranged in an orderly manner that contributes much to the usefulness of this book.  The first section discusses the division of the sciences; the second, ontology; the third, titled &quot;The Ladder of Being,&quot; covers such topics as life and the soul, the senses, the mind, and the will.  Following this come three large sections on God, filling more than half of the book.  Each of the many passages begins with brief headnotes giving the origin of the passage, the philosophical genre to which it belongs, and translation notes on principal Latin terms.  McDermott includes very little commentary of his own--Aquinas speaks for himself.  The text is laid out very clearly with the judicious use of italics, brackets, and boldface type, all serving to clarify how Aquinas structured his arguments.  <br />Recommended to anyone interested in Aquinas, but do not expect a condensed version of the Summa.	2002-01-15
US	48115935	R3NRIXGIK85AHB	0486201066	412426655	The Art of the Checkmate	Books	4	33	36	N	N	A Field Guide to Checkmates	Considering that the object of chess is to mate the opposing king, it's peculiar that so few modern chess publications focus on this aspect of the game.  Beginners can find many guides to tactics and positional play, as well as opening and endgame manuals, but very few foundational works on constructing an attack against the castled king.  Perhaps that's because in master play, the brilliant sacrifices and dashing sallies of a few generations ago lie buried in the variant lines.  Nevertheless, the developing player needs to pass through a study of such attacks, and it is impossible to conceive of an attacking line unless you know mating patterns inside and out.  This classic and attractively-priced text presents over 20 essential checkmates organized in logical sequence.  Coverage of each mate is rather sparse, but emphasizes the primary theme of the book:  visualize the final position, sac pieces to open lines, then finish with a forcing sequence.  Chapters also contain a small library of games; these are rather dated and often amateurish, but they do demonstrate the mates in practice and occasionally illustrate an important chess truth--that the threat of mate is usually enough to induce a weakness in your opponent's position.  Every several chapters the book pauses for a review quiz.<br />To get the most of this book, you should work through it carefully and slowly, making sure that you understand all the conditions and prerequisites for each type of mate.  Not all of this information is explicitly laid out in Kahn and Renaud's brief chapters.  Thereafter you will be ready to analyze game scores to see how these mates were executed or how the threat of them led to a winning position.  Actually, any enterprising and skilled chessplayer could make a name for himself in chess literature by writing an expanded version of _Art_of_the_Checkmate_ that would cover these things.  <br />Time for the testimonial.  I'm a fairly good positional player, at the intermediate level, and could often achieve a favorable endgame position, though sometimes I'd see my positional plus slip through my fingers.  Studying this book has greatly improved my middle-game play--now I better understand what to do with those outposts or strong squares.  Recently I played my first serious game since studying this book.  I gained the upper hand in the center, and, had I played in my old style, probably would have tried to force through a Queenside pawn.  This time, however, I saw that with some effort I could set up the circumstances for a version of &quot;Anastasia's mate.&quot;  It worked, and by the time my opponent realized what was happening, he had to give up the Exchange and a pawn to prevent mate.  Study this book: improve your chess and have more fun playing it!	2001-11-27
US	48115935	R147EGV1VB80TM	0865163073	815191729	Key to Latin Prose Composition (Latin Edition)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Now you have no excuse not to learn how to write in Latin!	Having studied several languages now, two or three of them intensively, I am convinced that composition is an essential element in achieving true competency.  Those studying Latin without a teacher can now get the benefits of a course in composition thanks to this key to North and Hillard's classic exercise book (see my review on its page here at Amazon).  Unlike the Focus edition of N&amp;H, this Bolchazy-Carducci reprint of the key is a photographic reproduction--which means that it is free of the numerous typos that plague the Focus publication.  Unfortunately, because the Focus and Bolchazy-Carducci republications are based on different editions of the respective originals, some discrepancies exist between the exercises and the answers.  These are not numerous, however--I'd guess no more than a couple every few pages--and they are minor.  In one passage, for instance, the answer includes a phrase mentioning a &quot;boat&quot; where no boat is mentioned in the sentence to be translated.  Nothing to worry about.  A Latin teacher will have no trouble making appropriate adjustments and an independent learner should be able to spot the mismatches where they occur.  Even very accomplished Latinists, who perhaps could correct student work without a key, ought to have this book around.  The translations invariably demonstrate a better Latin style than most students may be expected to possess, and the differences could make good grist for classroom discussion of Latin syntax and word-choice.	2001-11-06
US	48115935	R2IT2JJ7DHXGYV	0781807875	678870203	Fairy Tales in Latin: Fabulae Mirabiles (Latin and English Edition)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	tam iucundae quam mirabiles	This is a delightful collection of twelve well-known fairy tales rendered in impeccable Latin.  The familiar content and avoidance of complicated syntax or difficult words make them a fine choice for intermediate students.  To see Latin used playfully at a time when they're not ready for Ovid should be a treat after slogging through gerundives and the like.  Barocas's translations have the virtue of skillfully employing syntax Latin students should be able to understand and recognize; there's a relative clause of purpose in the very first sentence, for example.  Seeing the Latin form of a sentence whose meaning you essentially know is an effective way to learn how the language works.  One last note: included as a bonus is a very complete glossary!	2001-11-06
US	48115935	R1CO5VIXP15GCH	0198154224	634918375	A Practical Grammar for Classical Hebrew, 2nd Edition (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	The Romance of Paradigms	If you are serious about learning Biblical Hebrew, this book will give you a solid grammatical foundation on which to build in your further studies.  Weingreen presents the mass of Hebrew grammar in an orderly, systematic fashion, starting with the simple patterns of nouns and pronominal suffixes and gradually moving through ever more complicated verb systems.  Almost the entire second half of the book is devoted to irregular verbs.  Although this section could have been briefer, its very fullness provides the student with repeated drill in paradigms and allows the author to introduce longer and longer sentences in the translation exercises.  Because of this book's emphasis on grammatical forms, vocabulary content is limited, as is coverage of syntax.  The student who completes Weingreen will not be ready to read the Hebrew Bible fluently but he or she will be prepared to approach it with the aid of reference materials.<BR>  Adult learners without a teacher may be able to get by provided they have a strong grasp of grammar.  That's how I did it.  To other independent learners, I would make the following recommendations.  Learn Hebrew script (consult other grammars or search the Internet).  Get hold of Gesenius as soon as you can, to answer any questions that may occur and to clear up any confusion you may have about forms.  Weingreen occasionally slips an unexplained bit of syntax into the exercises and you'll want Gesenius to make sure you are translating it correctly.  Also, have a copy of the Hebrew text close by.  You can use it for practice in sight reading and for comparing sentences in the exercises with the actual narrative.  Next, get a Hebrew lexicon (like Brown-Driver-Briggs)--you'll need it sooner or later.  Finally, don't give up!  Try to do a little everyday, don't rush, and review frequently.  Eventually everything will click and you'll find yourself actually looking forward to tackling things like &quot;doubly weak&quot; verbs.	2001-10-27
US	48115935	RTWMBDXAVK1VP	0715613227	100135395	Latin Prose Composition (Latin Language)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	For total mastery of Latin syntax	This appears to be a reprint of the venerable Latin Comp text occasionally encountered in used book stores.  All of the major uses of the cases and principal sentence patterns are covered.  Each chapter introduces one new concept at a time and provides an abundance of English-Latin translation exercises, in the form of both single sentences and complete paragraphs.  Instructors should find everything they need for classwork, take-home assignments, and quizzes.  Several lexical aids are provided, including general and chapter vocabularies, a glossary of military expressions, and a list of important synonyms.  The emphasis given to military terms is undoubtedly a relic of the days when young boys cut their teeth on Caesar; it would be wonderful if North &amp; Hillard were substantially revised to include more of the legal and political jargon typical of authors more likely to interest older students.<br />In order to use this book, the student must know all declensions and understand the basic uses of the cases and tenses.  A reference grammar is NOT included.  Students learning from Wheelock's might find some of the grammatical content rather elementary.  For their sake, an instructor might want to consider including some of the easier exercises for supplemental work, saving the hard stuff for the course in comp.  This book is not recommended for self-study unless the key to the exercises--sold separately--is available.  I have not had a chance to review the key.<br />I docked this edition a point because it was not proofread as carefully as it ought to have been.  In ten minutes I found four typos.  Most of them are minor stuff, like &quot;proeliurn&quot; for &quot;proelium&quot; (151), which should not trouble a reasonably alert pupil.  But not every pupil will realize that &quot;carate&quot; on p. 147, given as the Latin for &quot;be without&quot;, is a meaningless misprint of what I assume was supposed to be &quot;carere&quot;.  Also, indication of quantity in the vocabularies seems to have been carried out irregularly and in fits.	2001-07-11
US	48115935	RBDN4S9I71EP6	0300080123	704323201	The Homeric Epics and the Gospel of Mark	Books	1	55	132	N	N	Preposterously sloppy scholarship	Granted there is no shortage of bad books on the Bible, but when a supposed &quot;professor of religion&quot; produces such a monstrously inane study as this, it's time to shut down the universities and force these nudniks to get real jobs for a change.  Somewhere in his education MacDonald should've gotten enough exposure to logic to know that a weak argument is NOT strengthened by uniting it with hundreds of similarly weak arguments.  No one with a grounding in the relevant fields and languages for New Testament studies could possible take MacDonald's thesis seriously.<br />  When we read the Gospels, we find scores of references to passages from the Hebrew Bible.  These include direct quotes as well as allusions, adequate to demonstrate at every turn that the Law and the Prophets were foremost in the gospel writers' minds, not the Iliad or Odyssey, no matter how much these texts were &quot;in the air&quot; or part of their milieu.  Anyone with a basic grasp of the text of the Septuagint can see how it influenced the evangelists' matter and phraseology.  When you want to understand the Magnificat, for example, you go to Hannah's psalm, not the Homeric Hymns!   On the other side, there is not a single allusion to Homer in the ENTIRE New Testament, and scant few references to known works of Greek or Roman literature.  MacDonald cannot offer a quotation of a single verse from Homer, and cannot show that &quot;parallel&quot; phrases or diction were not coincidental or merely part of a common idiom in the Greek-speaking world.  So whereas references to the Hebrew Bible are explicit in style and substance, we're asked to believe that the influence of Homer is something much subtler, evanescent, artistic!  Sure, Mark quotes Psalms 22 and 69 in the crucifixion accounts; but, MacDonald tells us, he was *thinking* in terms of Hector and Achilles!  And when Jesus walks on water, Mark &quot;meant&quot; to hearken back to Hermes' flight over the sea, despite a total absence oftypological or linguistic parallels.  But of course that just shows my naivete -- obviously Mark wasn't *directly* imitating Homer, he was &quot;transvaluing&quot; him!<br />  A book like this is bound to be well-received for two reasons:  one, a fascination for demythologizing and crackpot schemes, and two, a general ignorance among the public of Greek language and literature.  I *know* Greek.  I've read the Homeric poems in the original and I've done the same for the New Testament.  I also know a fair amount of Hebrew.  I've done my homework; if only MacDonald had done his.	2001-06-04
US	48115935	RTXVOLC8FTYUQ	0394724348	893626085	The Laurel's Kitchen Bread Book: A Guide to Whole-Grain Breadmaking	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The first and last guide to making whole-grain bread	This genial and practical book will teach you everything you need to know about baking with whole grains.  Previous baking experience not required!  The &quot;Learner's Loaf&quot; chapter contains the clearest instructions on breadmaking I've ever read.<br />The chapters on baking with wheat and rye will furnish you with an ample (though not exhaustive) repertoire of recipes for working with these two fundamental grains.  There are also instructions for rice and potato breads, saltless breads, breads made with sprouted grains, and more.<br />So many beginner's baking books only provide a basic set of general instructions and then go straight into pages of little more than ingredient lists and suggested rising times.  This book is filled with tips and specialized instructions for practically every single recipe.  You learn to bake each loaf by the only method that can guarantee repeated success  -- through explanations of the subtle points attending every step of the process.	2001-05-23
US	48115935	R2VSMTFLE666F4	0812922654	944242244	Best Lessons of a Chess Coach	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Excellent Primer -- Sunil, please write more books!!	Read enough instructional books on chess strategy, and you come to realize that all of them are really teaching the same concepts.  What differentiates one from another is the quality of the analysis and the clarity of presentation.  _Best_Lessons_ merits highest honors on the latter score.  There's no doubt why SW has had such a successful career as a chess coach.<br />The reader is taught the fundamentals of strategy in a series of ten games in which the moves and ideas are easy to understand.  The discussion combines concise descriptive paragraphs with Socratic dialogue which imparts a genuine ability to &quot;think chess.&quot;  Principles are phrased in the form of numerous chess proverbs.  The early chapters center on finding outposts for Knights and exploiting weak colors, while later chapters expand the focus to take in such items as considerations of pawn structure, mobilization of heavy pieces, and establishing a space advantage as a prelude to an attack.<br />If you have a good grasp of tactics, but somehow can't put a plan together or can't apply the strategic ideas you've read about in other books, you need _Best_Lessons_.  Sunil demonstrates how achieving strategic aims is an end in itself.  Which is easier--finding mate early in the middlegame, or finding a good square for your Knight?  Yet as you accumulate positional pluses, you'll find mate materializing almost of itself.<br />At times Sunil stresses the importance of understanding the character of different openings.  Coming to this book without this knowledge can feel intimidating but is no obstacle to profiting from its lessons.  If Sunil would write a guide to the openings, I know it would be well received!	2001-04-18
US	48115935	R122O1447C707F	0671656880	492646508	Pandolfini's Endgame Course: Basic Endgame Concepts Explained by America's Leading Chess Teacher (Fireside Chess Library)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	THE place to start for neophytes	If you're trying to get a handle on the endgame, this is the book for you.  Beginning players will profit immensely, and intermediate players (my standing) will get the information they need to consolidate and enlarge their understanding of this important phase of the game.  Advanced players probably won't get much out of this but might benefit from borrowing a friend's copy and reviewing the final chapters.  Nothing beats watching an endgame position materialize that you've studied over and over.  And it gives me confidence to know that if I can't prosecute mate in the middlegame, I can go into the endgame with strong chances.<br />One other reviewer said he would refrain from expressing minor criticisms; I'm going to present mine, since they explain why I'm giving this book four stars instead of five.<br />1.  Pandolfini has elevated the position-a-page format to the level of a fetish.  This has a distorting effect on certain endgame situations.  Some types of endgames are draws in all but one or a few instances; Pandolfini gives equal space to the typical drawn case and the exceptional winning case.  This equal coverage leaves an impression on the mind that the draws and the wins are equally divided, and it takes some conscious effort to overcome this misconception.<br />2.  The typos!  Oh, the typos!  Think of them as &quot;bonus challenges.&quot;  Can you find them all?  My copy must have at least two dozen corrections of the diagrams and text, in addition to the supplementary analysis I've penciled in.  Fortunately, the text analysis seems very solid.  I've only found two possible mistakes:  Position 35 doesn't appear as easy as Pandolfini makes it seem, and position 137 has an elementary mate in 2 which is completely overlooked!	2001-03-06
US	48115935	RA7JM8RBN1K4B	0879801115	903059747	1001 Winning Chess Sacrifices and Combinations	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Endless but unsifted collection of chess problems	As so many other have noted, the price can't be beat.  And for such an inexpensive edition, the binding has been very durable.  My copy has survived unconscionable levels of abuse and manhandling.  It's great to carry with you for study on the go.<br />If you're not familiar with the tactical armory of chess, this book will give you a quick, total-immersion introduction.  If you already know what a pin or fork is, to name just two of the twenty themes covered in this book, you'll get extensive practice recognizing and executing decisive combinations.  I find the book most useful to me in sharpening my ability to calculate.  Many solutions are very subtle and require you to analyze a position four or more moves deep.<br />Be forewarned that some of the solutions are inaccurate.  There have been times when, mystified by the supposed &quot;answer&quot;, I've entered a position into the computer and got back a line that is less of a crusher than that of the answer key.  Nevertheless, the player on move usually still emerges with an advantage.	2001-03-05
US	48115935	RRHP5890OE3YO	0671624261	138158575	How to Win in the Chess Openings	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Think of it as a prolegomenon to Fine	This might be a good choice for the beginner, the person who knows how to play chess but hasn't read anything on the opening.  Compared to Fine, whose _Ideas_Behind_the_Chess_Openings_ is often recommended to newcomers, Horowitz covers fewer openings but in greater detail. He explains the strategic and tactical principles behind almost every single move.  To acquire the ability to see the game in this manner is far more important than memorizing pages of book lines.<br />As Horowitz acknowledges with misgivings, the title is not quite accurate.  This book will not teach you how to &quot;win&quot; in the opening (which never happens unless your opponent really trips hard).  Rather, it will show you how to play the opening solidly so you can begin accumulating the small advantages out of which spring winning chances.<br />As other reviewers have noted, this book is written in the obsolete descriptive notation.  Although you may as well learn how to read it, Horowitz does not explain how to use it in this book--a glaring omission in a book intended for beginners!  Enough illustrations are included that you could probably deduce it from the text.  I'd encourage people new to chess to translate the moves (the boldfaced ones, at least) into algebraic.  Doing so will facilitate your recognition of opening lines in other chess literature.<br />After you've studied this, then go to Fine for expanded treatment of the major openings and coverage of the others left out of Horowitz.	2001-02-28
US	48115935	R9O1MI14EYX46	0815410107	780821305	Tolstoy: Tales of Courage and Conflict	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stimulating reading from the whole of Tolstoy's life	I agree with the previous two reviewers and join them in recommending this book, especially to those who have not yet read much Tolstoy.  Rather than repeat what's been said, let me add one caveat and two complaints.<br />First, the caveat.  If you already own a lot of Tolstoy's short fiction, you should preview this book to decide whether it offers enough new material to warrant buying.  This anthology includes a number of familiar classics (mentioned in the other reviews), but you may decide it's still worth purchasing for the less common and early works.<br />Now for the complaints.  _Kreutzer_Sonata_, or _Father_Sergius_?  If I had to make an either-or choice, I think I would choose _Father_Sergius_.  The editor chose _Kreutzer_Sonata_.  A defensible choice, but not my preference.<br />A more serious complaint I have regards an omission.  I would think that a Tolstoy anthology with &quot;courage&quot; and &quot;conflict&quot; in the subtitle would have to include _Hadji_Murat_.  Its absence seems an oversight to me.<br />Despite these minor criticisms, I'm still giving this collection 5 stars on the merits of the works themselves.  You will never regret time spent reading Tolstoy.	2001-02-27
