US	48117927	R70RKZVQL4E1J	0375705821	138464226	Imagining Atlantis	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Harmless and derivative	I agree with the reader who said that this book is mostly harmless (and dry), but having just finished the book &quot;Lost Continents&quot; by L. Sprague de Camp, and having read this one a month or two before, I am struck by how many ideas this author borrowed from de Camp.  Except for the material on Santorini, almost all the examples Ellis uses to dispute Atlantis were used in de Camp's book, which also cites them in more detail, which was published in 1954.  Ellis credits de Camp in his bibliography, but, except for Santorini and the chapter on Atlantis in the movies, there is vere little material in here that wasn't in the book &quot;Lost Continents.&quot;	2004-04-26
US	48117927	R17NP7SNOBHLDZ	9997554698	187855764	Atlantis: The Autobiography of a Search	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Flash back to the 1960's...	This 1968 book details the discovery of the Bimini Wall.  Set  in the psychedelic era, the authors are not scientists, in fact, the book begins with an impassioned defense of the merits of smoking pot.  It's a quick breezy read that is long on reflection, short on detail, draws no solid conclusions, yet has some interesting pictures of the Bimini Wall as the divers investigate it.  Yes, the authors were also followers of Edgar Cayce, and these days it's fashionable to dismiss the wall as simple &quot;beach rock&quot;, but the pictures do make you wonder.  The wall is so long and many of the blocks the same size that it does look as if they were cut to form either a road or harbor.  Not the best book on Atlantis, but an interesting read that may or may not become more important historically later.  It's also a nice flashback to the 60's.	2004-04-26
US	48117927	R1474KXR83KTKL	0486226689	660985095	Lost Continents (Dover Occult)	Books	2	16	57	N	Y	Doesn't quite live up to it's reputation...	This is a crabby book that attempts to refute the legend of Atlantis and other lost continents with whatever method it can muster - geology, geography, literature and &quot;scientific.&quot;  It doesn't quite live up to it's reputation, although it has a lot of interesting maps in it and makes some good points about continental drift and other scientific theories.  On the one hand, de Camp has done a lot of research for it and brings to light, although I am sure unintentionally, some valuable history on how the Atlantis story came into being (mainly references to it before and after Plato).  His conclusions on what scholars knew and thought at the time are subjective at best, though and, since the book was written back in 1954 and only slightly revised in 1970, according to the jacket, much of the points he makes abour scientific research are now dated.  <br />The main fault in the book lies in the title itself.  De Camp's main points are that a continent as big as Atlantis was reputed to be couldn't have sunk, but the original account from Plato didn't clearly call Atlantis a continent, and there is plenty of evidence of similar land masses of this smaller type sinking (some brought up by de Camp himself in the book, like the island of  Krakatow).  Since none if us were alive in the past, how can any of us be certain what the land masses looked like then..?  His other point is  that people were not even advanced enough to have built Atlantis back in 9,600 b.c. (he describes our ancestors as &quot;sitting on a branch and scratching&quot; at that time).  De Camp, at the time anyway, seems to have bought wholesale into the Darwin theory of evolution, which, we know now, has plenty of holes.  These days, as more discoveries have been unearthed, the date for human civilization is being pushed back more and more.  Ruins have been found on Malta that date to 8,000 b.c. and even the Sphinx has been redated, albeit not by everyone, to 10,000 b.c.  Underwater ruins discovered off of Cuba have been dated to 15,000, even 30,000 b.c. Also, I am shocked by how little research was done when trying to dispute the most popular theory of Atlantis  - the Atlantis sinking beneath the Atlantic theory (a scientist friend of his lowered his camera down by the Mid-Atlantic Ridge with a camera and didn't see any ruins there) ...  <br />His evidence to dispute linguistic evidence of Atlantis, as well as Atlantis and the Mayans connection, all needs more time to answer than I care to give here, other than to say, he is very selective about the examples he gives to prove his case.   His research into the almost equally legendary isle Antillia actually proves it's existence rather than disproves it the closer one looks at  it. And there are many other parts where de Camp simply dismisses a whole researcher's body of work by calling them loonies (this from a guy who for the most part made his name writing Conan the Barbarian novels, some of which starts out &quot;before the oceans drank Atlantis...&quot;).  <br />A cynical work that brings forth the occasional good point about Atlantis, perhaps the bible for the anti-Atlantis people.	2004-04-26
US	48117927	R16PRIH7NY81L1	3829041500	228233925	Maya: Divine Kings of the Rain Forest	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Shows just why they're called the Magnicent Mayans...	This is the best book I have ever come across on Mayan culture.  It is a oversized coffee table volume, some 450 deluxe pages, each of which is covered with maps,  illustrations and many, many photographs.  Each period in Mayan development is covered in the chapters and the illustrations correspond neatly with the text.   The text also does not veer off into the author's own opinions as these books frequently do.  The first evidence of humans in the Mayan planes date to around ten thousand b.c., the book starts there and continues to the current Mayans (yes, their descendents alive in the world today, and that, too, is an interesting look).  For anyone who thinks that civilization began in the Mediterranean, this book is clear evidence that it began on the other side of the world at the same time, if not earlier.  It's a shame that the price and the fact that this book is out of print makes it less accessible to readers.  For Mayan historians, this book is a must, but even someone with only a casual interest  in the subject would find much of interest here.	2004-03-13
US	48117927	R1OUJHPHZBL9TN	3829004958	76405800	The Levant: History and Archaeology in the Eastern Mediterranean	Books	5	9	9	N	N	So vivid you feel like you're there...	This book is an excellent addition to any library dealing with the civilizations of the Mediterranean, a chance to see what  musty texts only describe.  In a way that an academic text can't, this book brings back  alive ancient Greece, Persia and Phoenicia, among many others.  It's difficult to describe just how good the photography is in this book.  There are hundreds of photographs here, all in color, many large, filling half-pages and whole pages, and the  photography is so vivid you actually feel like you're standing before the ancient monuments and architecture, simply by turning the pages.  That is a feeling that is rare in even the best photography books and it alone is worth buying this book.<br />Now for the text!  As one reviewer mentioned,  there probably was some political bias included in the selection of sights to be photographed for the book, often backed up by the remarks in the text.  On the other hand, there are many other books that  deal with those sites of Israel, while the cultures of Phoenicia and the others have long gone neglected.  If you have any interest in these ancient cultures at all, you'll love this book.  It's the next best thing to being there if you can't afford the plane fare.	2004-02-28
US	48117927	R13V27OTYO55UG	1579830129	945694923	Discovery Of Atlantis	Books	4	25	33	N	N	Not so fast...	This is a great book, well-written and richly illustrated with 3 D maps and other details, and you can't help but to get carried away by the author's enthusiasm for the find.   He proves that there is a sunken area off of Cyprus with a plain that might match the one reputed to be the one in Atlantis (the evidence about the circular city and the Acropolis is less convincing).  He also says that tools have been found on Cyrpus that date to 10,000 b.c.  All this is really interesting, but I'd like to stress that there have been no ancient ruins found here suggesting the lost civilization so far and that, as of the date of publication, no exploration, perhaps not even any diving has been done in the area.  All the coastlines were lower during the last part of the Ice Age and most cities were built by the seas.  When the waters rose, they were submerged, were every one of these Atlantis..?<br />Yet, the biggest problem, not only with this book and others like it is that they try and fit the facts of Plato's narrative to fit their own discovery.  Mostly, they mention that no one knows which 'Pillars of Hercules' Plato was talking about (there was more than one, but according to the author, there were several), and that Atlantis was not in the Atlantic.  The author mentions that references to the Atlantic were entered into the narrative later (his whole case depends on that), but once again, that is conjecture, like all the disclaimers that have been needed to try and make the case for Santorini/Thera as Atlantis for all these years (the Greeks didn't know how to read Egyptian measurements, which was false, Atlantis was supposed to be in the middle of Libya and Asia, not bigger than it, it didn't sink to the bottom of the sea, it was destroyed in a volcanic blast).  All these disclaimers deny the original narrative, the most vivid description on Atlantis, which states clearly, more than once, that , before being destroyed, the Atlanteans swept through the Mediterranean from their base in the Atlantic and made war on all the people there.  Plato clearly places Atlantis, not only beyond the Pillars of Hercules, but in the Atlantic Ocean, anyone who tries to place it anywhere else and made a discovery has probably found something else.  Thera, Crete, Troy, Sardinia, and now Cyrpus have all been mentioned as possible locations for Atlantis, but they are all in the Mediterranean.  Whatever these civilizations actually called themselves, it couldn't have been Atlantis.  The name Atlantis isn't even Greek, by the way, it comes from the Americas, so the Greeks must have gotten it from someplace else.<br />In order to make their own case, these books too easily try to dismiss the Atlantic, especially in the Azores area as a site for Atlantis.  The author says that  this island chain is too far away from the Mediterranean to have affected it , which also assumes that ancient people didn't travel the sea.  Well, according to the legend, the people of Atlantis were, over all things a sea-faring people.  You can't take some parts of the legend to support your own thesis and then ignore/discount others.  He also says that  'the 'Azores theory sunk beneath the waves of public opinion.'  No, it hasn't!  While the general public might not know the role the Azores have played in the Atlantis mystique, ask them where Atlantis was and, if they believe it existed at all, they will place it in the Atlantic.  It's a logical assumption, why else was it called Atlantis..?  You wouldn't call something in Thera or Troy or Cyprus Atlantis, you would name it that if it were in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean!  I would like to see the same type of 3 D maps and diagrams the author has in his book done for all the island chains one finds in the Atlantic, then see what we would find.  You would find that the Canaries, the Azores and Madeiras all expand in length, might also find areas that one has never even thought of before - one of these areas might well be theactual Atlantis.  The fact remains while researchers blandly ignore the idea of a sunken land mass in the Atlantic, no expedition has ever been made to find Atlantis there at all.  We have sonar readings and that's it.<br />I hope it doesn't sound like I panned this book.  It is very entertaining and it raises some very interesting questions, I would like to see what happens if more research is done there.  Then, too, I'm also waiting to hear more about the sunken city found off the coast of Cuba, the sunken island just off the Straits of Gibralter and whether there will ever be an expedition to Antarctica to see if there is indeed a lost civilization beneath the ice.  All of these are Atlantis, too, or at least as much, if not more than Cyrpus is.  A shame someone can't research them all at once, then post all the daily results on a website.  Researchers, though, will never find the real Atlantis unless they stop looking to other parts of the world for it, and start looking where Plato placed it - in the Atlantic.  It is a big ocean, the light is bad down there, but it's time to start searching for it....	2004-02-21
US	48117927	R3VHX4KBWAY7BO	0785108378	247811529	The Life and Death of Captain Marvel (Marvel Comics)	Books	5	37	41	N	Y	The first great space opera	Don't believe the review that complained this book is an uncomfortable mix.  The first half of the story is actually the highlight, teeming with energy, while Captain Marvel's death is, as you might imagine, quite depressing.  This storyline is the one that started  Jim Starlin's long career doing cosmic epics, and it is almost impossible to underestimate how important it was at the time.  It starts out simply, in a couple of issues of Iron Man,where he stumbles upon creatures from space called the Blood Brothers, building nice suspense until it reveals Thanos, the Mad Titan.  What follows is an imaginative space opera that was one of the great highlights of comic in the 70's, featuring characters like the the Controller, Drax the Destroyer and Eon, who grants Mar-vell cosmic awareness, a character that  has to be seen to be believed.  The passions and motives of the characters here almost leap off the page.  First, there is Thanos, who wants to deliver all the universe to death, his mistress (who's identity, familiar to everyone now, is kept a secret to the end here).  Then, there is Drax, the Destroyer, who hates Thanos and wants him dead at any cost, consumed by an insane passion.  And then, there is Mar-vell, trying to make sense of it all, and not only trying to figure out what Thanos is up to, but trying to help the Titans, stop Thanos and save the universe.  The final battle, where Mar-vell tries to destroy the cosmic cube, is some of the greatest graphic storytelling ever seen in comics.  <br />The second part of this story is seen in Starlin's next work, Adam Warlock (hopefully that gets a decent treatment, too, someday).  The stories in Captain Marvel and Warlock are still the best representations of Thanos by far and, unless one reads them, one really can't understand what he's really all about and how he has evolved - he seems to be used far more liberally these days.  Those who don't get how great these two stories are don't really get comics either, and are probably better off sticking to the mainstream comics.   These are comics done by adults, for adults, and not for everyone, certainly not for people who don't appreciate epic storylines.  Personally, I get tired of reading reviews of comics by people who have no sense of the history of the genre, only picking up what happens to be the fad for the day, then try to comment on what has gone before.  Starlin both writes and draws each of these books, by the way, and, while most comic artists are influenced by other comic artists, the main influence in Starlin's work is an artist by the name of Michelangelo (the cover to this book, by the way, is even Michelangelos' Pieta, in case it looks familiar).<br />The last part of this story is Captain Marvell's death, drawn years after the other one.  It is true that it is poignant, but it's also depressing, too.  Starlin's interest in death in the early days was actually pretty morbid, and Mar-vell is one of the few Marvel characters to actually stay dead (one of the others being Gwen Stacy). The current Captain Marvell, is an updated, hot-headed, mod version meant to appeal to a younger generation.  The one here is noble, courageous and will risk all in order to triumph over evil - qualities that seem all too lacking everywhere these days.  On the other hand, the death does bring about some closure in the book.<br />One last note - the original books have gone up quite a lot in price and are considered collector's items, it's lucky to have them all together here.  Created three years before Star Wars, they more than match that trilogy in both sweep and sense of the epic.  Just to look at the storytelling here, one can almost see the first Thanos epic made into a great movie, especially how special effects have evolved these days.	2004-02-09
US	48117927	R6YDXZZILY8V0	1887472274	663514623	The Face on Mars	Books	2	1	1	N	Y	Lacking...	From the other reviews on this book, you would think it's a serious study on the face.  It isn't, it's a novel, set in the year 2040, with the idea of the face on Mars as a backdrop.  While the face makes a great plot device (witness the recent movie, Mission to Mars), it isn't used to good effect here.  In the author's preface, he states that he seeks to inform as well as entertain, by making a half-hearted attempt to do both, he actually manages to do neither.  The book is under two hundred pages, but feels much longer.  Characters aren't developed, the plot is neither suspenseful or engaging, and the writer too often makes the novice mistake of too often telling us, rather than showing us, the action.  To be fair, Allen obviously has a lot of interest in outer space, but his 'research' comes across as simple opinions, like a learned professor out to teach the rest of us.  Some of those opinions are not only outspoken, but even irritating, such as his theory that the Big Bang never happened, without even offering any viable alternative as to what else could have created the universe in the first place.   According to the author, the poor Martian civilization in the book didn't even create it's own culture.  I won't go on about that, though, because I wouldn't want to ruin the suspense...<br />This book could have more ably accomplished all it's goals by simply making itself a more entertaining read.  People tend to believe the information imparted in the movie JFK because it was presented so skillfully.  If the author would have used the typical structure any novelist uses when building up his story, it would have at least been entertaining, as it is this book reads more like a bad science paper.	2004-01-25
US	48117927	R1OYBB7SRHAXIC	1588204472	636625500	Atlantis, Beyond the Pillars of Hercules	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	Good idea, mixed execution	This is a novel that starts with an interesting premise, but goes down after the first fifty or so pages.  Without giving too much away, it has to do with Paul Schliemann, who claimed to be the grandson of Heinrich Schliemann, discoverer of Troy, who, in 1912, claimed to have artificacts his grandfather found detailing the existence of Atlantis.  Well, shortly after the claim, Paul was never heard from again and the book postulates that a voyage aboard the Titanic might have interferred with the planned unveiling.  Leap ahead some eighty or so years from then and the artficacts are discovered again, along with a map purporting to show Atlantis' location - on the Greek island of Thera - and the rest of the book is spent getting up an expedition and fighting over permits.  Finally, after almost three hundred pages, the expedition reaches it's destination, Thera.  This book lacks the drama that could have made it a page-turner, and the ending is unsatisfying.  The writer has done some basic research, and the characters frequently go on about it, but this book doesn't even come close to realizing the potential of it's themes.  Not only that, too often do writers take the lazy way out these days, linking Atlantis with poor old Thera/Santorini when modern research has discredited it as the location of Atlantis.  Better fiction on Atlantis, in fact, would be Roger Didio's &quot;Atlantis, A Tale of the Earth&quot; or Marion Zimmer Bradley's &quot;The fall of Atlantis.&quot;  Then, too, those books deal with Atlantis as an actual place, not as a simple plot device.	2003-12-31
US	48117927	R1Y0U0WZGNEZ09	1401087469	679008888	The Atlantis Triangle	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Could have used more research	At 149 pages, this book is not as comprehensive as many books on Atlantis, however it does offer a few interesting new tidbits of Atlantis in the Caribbean.  The selling point is that there are six underwater pyramids off the coast of Florida that have only been discovered in the last twenty years.  The worst part is that the author only gives sketchy accounts of each of them, depends on second hand accounts and draws very few conclusions on his own.  Also, there are no actual pictures of any of the structures, only the occasional drawing, map or diagram.  A link is also made between Atlantis and the Bermuda Triangle, Atlantis and the fall of Lucifer, Atlantis and the Great Flood.  Sometimes, the book veers so far off it's topic it devolves into complete flights of fancy (typical UFO territory, was Tesla an reincarnated Atlantean..?)  I would have liked to have seen a book devoted completely to the Florida pyramids and also some information on the underwater city discovered off the shores of Cuba in 2001.  There are pyramids on the floor of the Atlantic and one day someone will write a well-researched book on them, more work could have been done on this one.	2003-12-11
US	48117927	R2FMDXR0603I8Z	0898755913	915835145	Atlantis: Atlantology: Basic Problems	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	One of the best books on Atlantis	While most books on Atlantis take a subjective view, this one leans clearly towards the scientific.  This book looks at the topic of Atlantis from a geographical and geological viewpoint  and amasses a large amount of evidence and expert opinions to prove that (1.) Parts of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge were above sea level until about twelve thousand b.c. (2.) Atlantis existed in the tropics.  There is no attempt to place Atlantis at Santorini as many other books try to do, Zhirov placed Atlantis squarely in the Atlantic, just as Plato did.  If one reads Plato, and takes him literally, none of the other possibilities, like placing Atlantis on Thera, or in Indonesia, or any other place besides the Atlantic Ocean are possible (and yes, Plato knew where the Atlantic was and what the Straits of Gibralter are).  Zhirov also offers what we know of the history of the Atlantic Ocean as well as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and the book is illustrated with many black and white maps and diagrams.  It is a great addition to any library dealing with Atlantis or the lost continents, but, also unlike other books like this, the author does not romance his topic.  Zhirov looks at the subject through cold geologocal facts, the same evidence that others try to use to discredit the theory, and concludes that Atlantis existed. It is a very important book written from a new point of view, a scientist's view.	2003-09-24
US	48117927	RKAQUUB8DWQO9	0375705821	138464226	Imagining Atlantis	Books	1	4	9	N	N	Ellis is the Ann Coulter of Atlantology	This book, sketchy and selective on the facts it includes, smugly tries to assert that Atlantis was a mere invention of Plato's, even though several times during Timaeus and Critias insists that it is true, several ancient people claimed to be descendents of Atlantis, and nearly every culture around the globe has a memory of a great catacylsm that destroyed a great civilization.  Reading this book will only give you half the story, and Ellis, who seems to be a minimalist when it comes to everything - ancient history, marine life, even the danger presented by great white sharks - is not the person to write this book.  Especially disturbing are his attacks upon other researchers (better than him, I might add), such as Charles Berlitz.  He paraphrases and misquotes them liberally, making them appear less respected than they are, all in an attempt to pump up his own inflated narrative.  Many, like Lewis Spence, are no longer alive to even defend themselves.  In the editorial review at the top of this column, the reviewer calls Ellis an 'an expert on all things Atlantic.'  That might be stretching the truth quite a bit, too, to put it lightly.  Ellis might like to sail and scuba dive like a lot of people, but anyone who knows anything about the Atlantic Ocean knows that it is the most  stormy, tempestuous and mysterious ocean on the face of the earth.  Not one bit of that history is laid out here.  Another reviewer made mention of how detailed the research was for this book.  Don't believe that either - anyone interested in the topic of Atlantis at all has come across all the same research in their findings and has but to recall it from memory.  Some of it, like the stories detailing Herodotus, believe it or not, are also misrepresented and presented poorly here.  In his attempts to make Plato, Herodotus, Ignatius Donnelley, Spence, Berlitz, among many others look bad in an attempt to inflate his own standing, Ellis tries to do history a great disservice.  If you read this book, do yourself a favor and also read Otto Muck's &quot;Secret of Atlantis&quot; or even Andrew Collins' more recent &quot;Gateway to Atlantis&quot; to get a more balanced look, than form your own opinions.  Too easy are the minimalists like Ellis being published these days.	2003-09-20
US	48117927	R23SXRJZ9SX583	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	18	39	N	N	Book  not worth all the banter	All the discussion to do with 'Treason' is unfounded.  This book was mislabelled, it was actually supposed to be in the fiction category, not non-fiction.  It's a fairytale, written for chidren (pretty mean children by the tone of some of the 5 * reviews), heroes and villains (the honorable Joe McCarthy vs. all the people who's lives he ruined by getting them blacklisted), a happy ending (the simple fact that it even has an ending).  It even has a witch in it (Coulter).	2003-09-18
US	48117927	R319G5GSDH4XZR	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	20	36	N	N	Don't buy this book people...	From all the jibes going back and forth, you would think this is a great work of political theory.  It isn't.  It's a poorly written, factually suspect, hastily compiled  work of mere opinions.  Liberals will hate it because it is clearly biased, and only the dumbest conservatives will believe all of the things she says in here.  If you have to read it, wait until it gets in the bargain bins (and it will).  The sad thing is that, since this book has managed to generate so much controversy, this woman is bound to be published again.  Like Morton Downey Jr., like Rush Limbaugh, even, I might add, like Joe McCarthy himself, Coulter and her opinions are a fad who will fade in time and no one will even remember what all the fuss is about.	2003-09-15
US	48117927	R24DBEW1XH5Z9N	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Dumb Writing for Mean and Bitter People	Coulter's book tries to make a hero out of Joe McCarthy.  Look forward to her next follow-up book where both Adolph Hitler and Joseph Stalin also get a \\"new, kinder look\\" and both F.D.R and Churchill are reviled as soft-hearted liberals, and the Holocast a \\"myth\\" of the Democrats.  Contrary to the shrill cries of other right-wing reviewers, very little original research was done for this book, facts are mentioned selectively, and each word, down to it's last syllable, seemed to have been selected for maximum meanness.  Coulter can villify Clinton as much as she wishes, but the facts remain, in the eight years he was in office, this country was more prosperous, had more peace, and was thought of far better around the world than it is now.  It is mean people like Coulter, who apparently has never suffered a day in her right-wing  life, that  are the very essence of the words, \\"Ugly American.\\"  Give Coulter the kind of America that she and apparently many in this new administration seem to want and you will have Nazi Germany, where everyone is afraid to speak out, willingly gives up all their civil rights, falls immediately in line, and people's own natural bigotry eventually seems to outcast a segment of our population.  Which segment that would be would be up for debate since Conservatives seem to hate everyone who isn't rich like them.  And make no mistake, unless you are rich, there is no reason to support this agenda, because, when it comes down to it, they only care about the rich.  That's right - not gun control, not defense, not even abortion, the rich...  <br />This book, like the Republican party in general, depends on it's audience being illiterate and little-read.  Their whole goal is to keep people fighting among each other and to keep their class system intact.   Some people are contrasting this book with Al Franken's book.  A better analogy would be a book written back in the 1920's.   Compare it to \\"Mein Kampf\\" and you will find the two have more than alittle in common.  This book is not America.  If it is, the people who read and support it had best  wake up and take a good look at themselves.	2003-09-12
US	48117927	RG6ML6QDZSEII	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	9	15	N	N	As mindless as a book can get...	The worst part about this hate-filled book is that this woman has become a celebrity about it and is now a regular on CNN, Fox, and other &quot;news&quot; programs. Dripping with vile, blinded by hate, and overflowing with shameless lies, 'Ms.' Coulter's book is the kind of literature that book-burning was invented for.  She is the kind of conservative woman who has never suffered, always been pampered and has nothing better to do with her life than to try and tell others how to live theirs (and, of course, her hair is never out of place either).  How this woman has been published when doubtless other good authors are still starving is beyond me.  Please, Republicans, find someone else to spout your hate-filled litany.  Not only does she not serve your cause well, she is making more liberals than converting them.  Find another smug, smiling face to cackle and titter on TV.	2003-09-08
US	48117927	RLZN2VO1RF3OC	0952799413	811770453	The Atlantis Secret: A Complete Decoding of Plato's Lost Continent	Books	1	8	11	N	Y	As pretentious as it's title suggests...	A great disappointment.  The author of this book did next to no research on this book, merely expresses his opinions, and still manages to drone on for some four hundred tiresome pages.  His thesis is essentially this:  Plato never meant for his story of Atlantis to be intrepreted as truth (even though, in his dialogues, he does say several times that it is true), and that Atlantis and the mythical underworld, Hades, are one in the same.  This would be interesting, could even be interpreted as a new look, but the author does such a poor job of making his case, even in this thick tome, that everything on these pages gradually becomes suspect.  Rather than fact piled up upon more fact to make a stronger case, opinion is piled on top of more opinions.  The bombastic tone of this book becomes evermore irritating (you will get tired of the author's constant suggestion to 'see his earlier works'), and believe it or not, at the end of each chapter, there are summaries about the chapter's 'ground-breaking' contents.  This would be useful in a good book about Atlantis, it comes across as popmous and self-serving in this one.  <br />Professor Christopher Gill also lends his learned talents in the introduction that praises this book (it's respectable for a scholar to appear in any book decrying Atlantis), although this book caters towards the fantastic in such a bad way that one wonders why any academic would want to be associated with it at all.  Disecting Plato word for word might be a good exercise, but this author is not the one to do it.  Alan Alford is the Rush Limbaugh of the pseudo-archeology set, and, if this book is any indication of his other books, there is no reason at all to 'see his earlier works.' This book is justifiably out of print at the moment.  My edition has a nice cover and, at four hundred some pages, something in there must make sense, so I will hold onto it.   If you can't find a copy, just imagine your worst college professor,  a stalled elevator, him trying to tell you all his theories, and there you will have this book.	2003-09-04
US	48117927	R2E444V66Z9842	0448160617	587484570	Atlantis Illustrated	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	An invaluable reference source on Atlantis...	It's a shame this book isn't back in print or there isn't some current book like it.  Stahel illustrates Atlantis exactly in the proportions that Plato described it in his dialogues, Timaeus and Critias.  For people out there wondering how big a stadia is, or why scholars are so resistant to the possibility of such an incredible civilization ever existing, here is your answer:  Atlantis, as described, was huge.  Many of the buildings were on par with the great  pyramids of Egypt, then, if the Atlanteans w ere also responsible for those on the Giza complex and the Sphinx, as is one current theory, that would be the case.  The one down side of the book is that none of the illustrations are in color, but Stahel is an excellent pen and ink artist .  You also h ave to wade through some of his own views on Atlantis in the beginning (the Atlantis/Santorini theory being quite popular at the time), but, all things considered, this a must for any serious student on Atlantis to have in their collection.	2003-09-01
US	48117927	R25DBFLHU205VG	0448160617	587484570	Atlantis Illustrated	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An invaluable reference source on Atlantis...	It's a shame this book isn't back in print or there isn't some current book like it.  Stahel illustrates Atlantis exactly in the proportions that Plato described it in his dialogues, Timaeus and Critias.  For people out there wondering how big a stadia is, or why scholars are so resistant to the possibility of such an incredible civilization ever existing, here is your answer:  Atlantis, as described, was huge.  Many of the buildings were on par with the great  pyramids of Egypt, then, if the Atlanteans w ere also responsible for those on the Giza complex and the Sphinx, as is one current theory, that would be the case.  The one down side of the book is that none of the illustrations are in color, but Stahel is an excellent pen and ink artist .  You also h ave to wade through some of his own views on Atlantis in the beginning (the Atlantis/Santorini theory being quite popular at the time), but, all things considered, this a must for any serious student on Atlantis to have in their collection.	2003-09-01
US	48117927	RBAK7B7SELBCQ	0523480733	128603205	Stonehenge: Where Atlantis Died	Books	1	3	7	N	Y	Not as good as the title makes it sound...	This is a bloody fantasy novel dealing with the Celts, ancient Mycenae and Crete (called Atlantis in this book).  None of the characters are sympathetic, the swordplay is at times pointless, and the plot is unengaging.  The writer's contention is that old Santorini was Atlantis (the Atlanteans are made to be the bad guys), and, if that is not bad enough, he has one of his professor friends adamantly backing up the claim in the epilogue of the book.  That dry husk of an observation aside, this is the kind of book that speed reading was invented for.  Why Atlantis even had to be included in the title was beyond me, other than to sell more copies.	2003-09-01
US	48117927	R1O5C9B6S5N0PA	0749919655	345823126	The Atlantis Enigma	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A very under-rated book on Atlantis...	This book, despite the fact it has no pictures, is one of the best anyone will find on current Atlantis lore - a very pleasant surprise.  Brennan very carefully builds his hypothesis for not only Atlantis, but what brought about it's end.  Readers may not agree with his final solution (a fragment of a supernova affected all the planets of the Milky Way to one extent or another, in the process, bringing about ruin to the lost continent), but how he reaches his conclusion is both deliberate and unmistakable.  They should also bear in mind that no one has as yet even figured out what ended the Ice Age twelve thousand years ago (coincidentally the date that Plato also gives for the destruction of Atlantis), and this theory is as sound as any other.  The idea that the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter was once a tenth planet was definitely news to me - it resolves some of the mysteries of the galaxy while at the same time, creating new ones.  <br />This book not only poses some excellent points, it's very intelligent and well-written, too.  Brennan clearly knows how to make a book read well and this one is hard to put down.  He is the first author I have seen that has actually reconsidered the idea of the extent that there even was an Ice Age (Brennan claims it existed, but says the ice was hardly as widespread as is now thought, the earth, like today, still had it's warm areas).  He uncovers evidence of massive ditch-building and other large scale building works done in the Americas on the scale reputed by Atlantis.  He also cites geological evidence that the massive Atlantic Ridge was above sea level in the not too distant past (it's hard to believe that that idea is even up for dispute since, if one accept the idea of an Ice Age, one also has realize that the oceans would have to also be much lower, much of their water being trapped within the ice).  The background information on how the theory of the Ice Age first came into being and other historical points wasvery helpful, too. Very carefully, Brennan explains the logic and reasonings behind many long established scientific theories, then, just as carefully, tears them all down.   <br />This book definitely needed more publicity to go along with it's findings when it came out and it's a shame that it's now out of print.  Not only a very plausible, well-thought out book on Atlantis, but a very entertaining read, too. Even if one has only a passing interest in ancient history, they'll be interested in this one.	2003-08-01
US	48117927	R3P8AJDKDXLQZK	0786887222	940370416	Spider-Man Confidential: From Comic Icon to Hollywood Hero	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Spiderman, Behind the Scenes...	This is a great book on all the politics and ego clashes that have gone into making all the various Spiderman incarnations throughout the years, on TV, the cartoons and the films.  The one down side of it all is - no pictures.  Then, too, it is also billed as an unauthorized bio so it would be fitting that Marvel Comics would not permit any artwork to be used (see the DC Comics approved Les Daniels histories if you want the watered down histories of comic book characters).  Particularly of note is why Steve Ditko left drawing Spiderman in the first place (according to the book, he didn't like Stan Lee), why the great Spiderman cartoon of the 1990's was cancelled (network idiocy, according to series writer John Semper), and why James Cameron never got around to making the Spiderman movie (after Titanic was made, he felt he was too big for it).  This is a no-holds barred look at the Spiderman franchise, all it's good incarnations and it's bad (like the awful Nicholas Hammond TV show and the last terrible Spidey cartoon, Spiderman Unlimited).  It isn't a comprehensive book, but it is a valuable resource for those of us who always wondered why such a great character never received (until recently) a good screen treatment.  In the past, according to the book, Marvel Comics was mostly just interested in making a buck on Spiderman, could have cared less how he had been portrayed.  These days, since they're owned by Toy Biz, they have an interest, at least - to sell more Spiderman toys. The fact that so many pin-headed executive types have been involved with the character over the years makes you grateful that the character has been as creative as he has.  Spidey's greatest villain is not the Green Goblin, it's all those network execs that have kept trying to dumb him down for televison or improve on an already good idea.	2003-07-20
US	48117927	R3KTO5KESLSKS9	0933601204	175885279	The Atlantis Conspiracy	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A 1973 expediton to Cardiz that made headlines at the time	This book deals with Dr. Maxine Asher's 1973 expedition to Spain, off Cardiz, in 1973. The book works, mostly on the strength of all the details Dr. Asher gives about all the red tape and hassles that went into carrying out her trip (you'll better appreciate all that is involved with exploring ruins in a foriegn country after reading this book), but the book reaches no real  conclusions on Atlantis itself, and Asher herself seemed to have been quite disappointed in the expedition.  She did explore while Franco was still in power, though, so what could you expect..? As for the Conspiracy part of it, Asher raises some interesting points on the reluctance of the media and, in particular,  religious leaders in terms of acknowledging Atlantis, without sounding like Jim Garrison.  Her writing style is breezy and the book is also short, making for a quick read.  One wishes that she had planned a second expedition later, in a more civil time, or that someone else had resumed exploring Cardiz later.	2003-07-18
US	48117927	R3L4LB7XV17ODE	0938294636	166222937	Overlords of Atlantis and the Great Pyramid	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	A hodgepodge of the fantastic	This is an interesting book at times, but the title is misleading, it is not really about the Great Pyramid or Atlantis.  On the other hand, since the book was written before the Sphinx and the Giza pyramids were redated to much earlier times than the Egyptians currently give them credit for, so one has to make certain  allowances for that.  The problem with this book is that it is misleading.  At times, it seems to be about anything but Atlantis.  Brad Steiger has collected some good information, but seems to equate Atlantis with all sorts of other occult ideas, like aliens, monsters and the supernatural...what does any of that have to do with the lost continent..? The first fifty pages are the most interesting as it delves into the idea that humanity is much older than historians give it credit for.  The incidents range from interesting (million year old human shoeprints, suggesting that humans did live in the time of the dinosaurs, giant skeletons, also monsters menacing miners in caves), to the outright ridiculous (good old U.F.O.'s trotted out again any time a mystery can't be explained). Many of the old myths regarding the Watchers, ancient Indian flying craft and the Hollow Earth are also mentioned here.  Again, it's interesting, but all this has all been done better elsewhere.  The book seems to lack a clear, coherent structure and I agree with the reviewer who said that there are entirely too many pictures of the author posing      before various ruins.  That in itself just seems to negate the whole serious scholarly approach.  On the plus side, the information, taken as a whole, makes a good supplement to other books out there on the topic, provided that one realizes they aren't getting the definitive word on the topic.	2003-07-16
US	48117927	R1K6KPAQKMLNMQ	3822866113	103319712	Gil Elvgren: All His Glamorous American Pin-Ups (Jumbo)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The Best Pin-Up Book Ever	Gil Elvgren was the best of all the pin-up artists and also the most prolific and this book collects much of his work.  The plates, nearly six hundred of them, are almost all in color and each one is of decent size.  This book is the definitive volume on pin-up art to any collection, his art, a masterwork on the same level as any of the great painters.  The fashions on his models may change throughout the forties, fifties and sixties, but their beauty (and cuteness) remain consistent.  His fleshtones are truly amazing and the poses suggestive and fun.  Elvgren's models weren't just gorgeous, they were friendly, inviting and playful.  Just having this book lifts your mood, recalling an earlier time when life was a lot simpler.	2003-07-16
US	48117927	R1JVSTGI47S6UR	0750925973	991152932	The Atlantis Syndrome	Books	1	3	12	N	N	Case Open, Mind Closed	What a horrible book.  Not only does the author not take a good look at any of the archelogical evidence relating to the premise of Atlantis, his writing style becomes quite irritating after awhile, like a college professor who thinks he's being witty and clever and really coming across as a pompous blowhard.  Despite another reviewer's claim that this book dispels the myth of Atlantis, it doesn't do that at all.  It simply spouts the same arguments that academics have been saying for years who haven't even looked at the evidence because the topic of Atlantis isn't respectable enough for them (sonar readings show no continent on the ocean floor, etc.).  The real truth of the matter is that there has never been a single expedition into the Atlantic with the sole purpose of looking for Atlantis, and much of accepted, 'respectable' archeology, history, even geology is, in actuality, mere guesswork.  Any author is entitled to his opinion, of course, but this book has no market.  The bottom line is people who buy books on Atlantis do so because they're interested in the subject.  There might well be an equal amount of people who don't believe in it, but I can't imagine they're willing to spend twenty dollars on a book like this for it. Nice cover, though, hopefully they'll keep that, at least, for the paperback version - if it even gets one.	2003-06-26
US	48117927	R1ARWIYXDYS17T	0517888521	978325809	The Message of the Sphinx: A Quest for the Hidden Legacy of Mankind	Books	5	63	70	N	Y	The missing Link in Ancient History	Here is a revolution in Egyptology.  The reviews I've read of this book, the ones who have dismissed it only prove how narrow-minded people can be, after being spoon-fed a certain history for all their lives.  Hancock and Bauval capture, in comprehensive detail many of the riddles of the origin of the Sphinx and solve many of them.  From other recent books, we know that the pyramids mirror the exact position of the constellation Orion in the skies as it was in about 10,500 b.c.,that they are aligned exactly north, and we also know that the Sphinx and the pyramids show signs of water damage in an area that has been arid according to scientists for at least 8,000 years. The question is this, what if the pyramids, and the Sphinx, were built by a civilization far older than Egypt, not 2500 b.c., but in 10,500 b.c.?  Egyptologists and the narrow minded scoff at this, of course, because it would mean a radical rewriting of Egyptology, not to mention human history, but consider this:  even the best archeology is just guesswork, no matter how educated the academic, no matter how logical the theory sounds. The bottom line is no one really knows why or when the pyramids were truly built, carbon-dating is inaccurate, and the Pyramids of Giza were built with more advanced design methods than any other pyramids in Egypt, not only the ones that came before, but after. In fact, some that came after are mere piles of rubble now on the sands. None of the bodies of the three pharoahs the pyramids were supposedly built for were ever found in any of them and Khufe himself, supposedly the builder of the Great Pyramid, said in his records that he only did repair work on it, was not the one to build it. History attributes the Pyramids to Khufe and his descendents, the pharoahs themselves do not. The three smaller pyramids to the side of the monument were the tombs Khufe actually built for himself and his family.  In fact, Egyptian myths themselves attribute the Great Pyramid, not to any of their Pharoahs, but to the more advanced methods of their &quot;Gods of Old.&quot; No other pyramids in Egypt, before and after, were built with the same design methods and scale of these three,and Egyptologists have long been baffled as to why the pyramid progression happened as it did.  Who built them then?  Frankly, I don't think it was aliens, but I don't agree with the traditional historical assumption either.  Egyptian chronologies attribute the Age of the Gods, to about 10,500 b.c., the same time frame that Plato places for Atlantis in his dialogues. Now, before critics harp on any mention of Atlantis, accept that humanity has been around as we know it, for at least one hundred thousand years, and that civilization has only risen to it's current status in the last five thousand, and you can see we are missing more than a little of our history. Humanity has risen and fallen many times throughout the ages, with little that the generations before us built remaining.  Accept that, and also that the whole of Egyptian civilization, it's pyramids and it's gods, are simply a copy of an earlier civilization, one with far more advanced methods, and all the mysteries, the inconsistencies of the other  pyramids, all seem to fall neatly in place.  Hancock's and Bauval's theories are as good as any of the others that have been accepted over the last two thousand years.  And actually, no one can even say that they are really right or wrong, mostly because none of us were really there, and no one can say for sure.	2003-06-02
US	48117927	RPVDNY5YXDXT9	0811821625	12992285	Superman: The Complete History: The Life and Times of the Man of Steel	Books	2	45	58	N	N	Hardly the True Story of Superman	There is no doubt the comic book industry owes a great debt to Superman, or rather, to Siegel and Shuster who created him, but in his book, Les Daniels frequently looks for ways to minimize, rather than credit, their contribution.   DC Comics made millions of dollars on the movies, TV Shows, cartoons, and other merchanising over the decades, while Siegel and Shuster shared in hardly any of it. The most shocking thing now is, this book, written with the cooperation of DC - rather than apologize to the two men, or even express any kind of  gratitude, it actually takes stabs at Sigel and Shuster.  Rather than simply state the facts regarding to Superman's history, Daniels frequently assails the characters of the two men, claims they took most of their ideas from other places, assigns poor motives to both men, even mentions extra-marital affairs they may or may not have had. The book is supposed to be about Superman, who cares about any of  that?  Of course Daniels would never turn a critical eye towards  DC, who seem to have hired him, it's surprising they still seem to be bitter about two men that made them so much money for the last sixty years.  There is no doubt, DC has been the best comic book company when it comes to promoting their characters, but they have also been very lucky in the courts.  Not only did they force Superman's creators to relinquish all rights to the character, their lawsuits also managed to force Captain Marvel, a character more popular than Superman at the time, out of business.  They claimed they were too much alike, but anyone who knows comics could see their differences.  Later, DC took over Captain Marvel and actually began publishing him themselves (!).  This story is only touched on briefly here.   I give the book two stars because the illustrations are good, but the text deserves one, if even that.  Everyone is entitled their opinion, but, in a book like this, people don't want to hear about it, they expect a decent read about the character of Superman.  The true history of Superman is really not told here, it actually involves greedy businessmen sitting back and counting their money, while the creators that were the ones to make these characters, end up dying peniless.	2003-04-28
US	48117927	R1BD4RSHWXB1VX	1879181851	793859254	The Destruction of Atlantis: Compelling Evidence of the Sudden Fall of the Legendary Civilization	Books	4	31	36	N	N	A very well-researched book on Atlantis	This is a very good book on Atlantis. The primary new theories in this book say that the destruction occurred around 1200 b.c., rather than around 10,000 b.c., as in the lore, also that Atlantis was an island, rather than a continent (no two writers will ever agree on anything to do with Atlantis). I am unconvinced on those two counts, but much of the research the author has brought forward is really interesting. The book starts out fine and I couldn't put it down for the first hundred pages. There's a section where Atlantis and the Great Flood is examined through various ancient myths in the world where the book slows down a little, the material is helpful, but can't help but to be repetitive. And then, in the end, in the summary, it goes back to being more involving again. There's even a section in the Bible, in Revelations, that might be a reference to the destruction of Atlantis, under a different name. Also of note, that the fair-haired Guanche civilization once on the Canary Islands claimed to be descendents of Atlantis. It even touches on the recent underwater ruins discovered off the coast of Cuba. This book takes the topic of Atlantis seriously, without bias, and is a good reference book for people that want to look for the facts so far on the subject, not be flooded with a writer's own natural prejudices. Read it, between this book and certain others, somewhere probably lies a more complete story...	2003-04-14
US	48117927	R8GWYMZ8R8DB6	1931484147	42496269	Crux v. 1: Atlantis Rising	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	One of Crossgen's Best...	A very under-rated book, while other Crossgen titles seem to get more press, this one truly delivers. Atlantis, long grist for any dreamer's mind, is given a fresh look here.  This isn't the Submariner's Atlantis, blue-skinned people living in a fantastic underwater city in the depths of the ocean, but  rather people actually dealing with the calamity that destroyed their island, as well as adjusting to life some 100,000 years in the future. Alright, it isn't very realistic, and the parts that deal with Atlantean society are, for me, anyway, the most interesting, but one has to keep in mind that it's a comic book.  It would have been nice to see them awaken to this time, when opinion seems to be evenly divided whether Atlantis is fact or fiction, but setting it faroff in the future also gives it an ironic twist to it,  where they are left wondering what kind of civilization we may have once had.  Honestly, the book doesn't even need all it's superhero team trappings, it succeeds just on at it's terms of being a book about Atlantis and it's characters, but, being a comic, one has to realize that much of that comes with the territory.   Mark Waid is a great writer who's words often seen in a comic book, and his characterizations are dead on, a very literate comic book writer.  Steve Epting has long been one of the most under-rated artists in comics, in my view one of comics's best, and his work on the Avengers a few years ago was one of the high points of the industry during the nineties.  Anyone sick of the current Japinese anime art style will love his work here, few artists can master actual human expressions as Steve Epting does.  Anime may have some strengths, but expression certainly isn't one of them.  As I said, I would have preferred a little more of Waid and Epting's take on  Atlantis, Atlantis Rising is good enough that it doesn't need to cater to the typical comic book conventions, but it is an intelligent, well written book that should keep people hooked,not only to the mystery of what happened to Atlantis, but the rest of civilization.	2003-03-27
US	48117927	R1ORB9YIW4LKB1	0375705821	138464226	Imagining Atlantis	Books	1	1	8	N	N	This book should be called &quot;Unimagining Atlantis&quot;	The question remains, if one's specialty is not archaelogy or history (or geology either from the sound ot it), what is one even doing writing about an ancient civilization in the first place?  Richard Ellis seems an intelligent person from interview shows, but this book is written dryly and many of the conclusions he reaches are as ill-formed, in a conversative way, as some of the more way out theories tend to be in a far-fetched one.  Books refuting the  Atlantis myth are an easy write for one who wants to be &quot;scholarly&quot; and maintain the respect of one's colleagues.  It is much harder to stick one's neck out and take a good look at the evidence.  Plato was a philosopher, a seeker of truth, several times in &quot;Timaeus&quot; and &quot;Critaeus&quot; he mentions that the Atlantis story is true, not a myth.  Plato, Solon, and anyone else to do with this story also knew where the Pillars of Hercules were, outside the Straits of Gilbralter, Atlantis was not in Crete, Santorini, or whichever we prefer to call it.  As for why no trace of a lost civilization has been found in the Atlantic Ridge, well, if Atlantis was truly destroyed by earthquakes,buried in volcanic ash, then swept to the bottom of the sea in a great deluge, then covered by ocean sediment for eleven thousand years, ninteen thousand feet below sea level, can it be any wonder..?  It took us thirty-five hundred years to find Minoan Crete, a civilization we didn't even know existed, Atlantis can wait a little longer.  There are a lot of wild, far-fetched books on Atlantis, but seekers of the truth can do a lot better than &quot;Imagining Atlantis,&quot;  which is ill-informed and quick to jump to it's dour conclusions.  One final point for the cynics and scholars out there, a point readily accepted by even the most academic of them.  Once, all the land masses in the world formed a single contininent called &quot;Pangea,&quot; millions of years ago.  Looking at the map now, one can still see whereall the pieces once fit together, South America and Africa neatly fit together, like a giant gigsaw puzzle, and yet Europe and North America seem to be missing some pieces.  Where are they?  Atlantis, that's where they are.	2003-03-23
