US	48159920	R1PGQ0DXKQ8WN	0393029093	668274497	The Norton Book of Modern War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	this book is excellent, and i generally hate anthologies	what a book!  its one down side was the poems interspersed throughout the prose, so basically i just skipped or skimmed them, but the prose included - WOW!  from World War I to the Spanish Civil War to WWII to Korea to Vietnam, just an amazing selection of writings of people's experiences in war.  if there's any book that's going to make you anti-war it's this one.  buy this book and expand your education!	2004-08-16
US	48159920	R82DXQ0IBZE7U	0671735594	669106984	Jay's Journal	Books	1	131	136	N	N	i hate a book that lies to me!	This book is a big lie!<br />Although i knew nothing about this \\"true account\\" when i picked it up, as i got deeper into the book I sensed something was missing.  Jay's character didn't add up.  He struck me as too sane and objective to be crazy, too moral and connected with himself to be so immoral, too mature in his thoughts and writing to be so immature, and FAR TOO HONEST AND EXPRESSIVE WITH HIMSELF to be so dishonest with everyone around him.  The fact that he killed himself just didn't add up to me.  I'm a psychotherapist who works with suicidal people (adults now but teens in the past) and i just didn't buy it.  At first i wondered if Sparks simply changed too much of Jay's identifying information (which even Freud warns against in recounting case studies) to make the story hold, but later i found myself wondering if she had actually re-written the journal herself to fit HER needs (perhaps to sell books, get famous, whatever - or perhaps some more sinister psychological desire to disguise a worthy person's true story).<br />Although i still don't know what actually happened in \\"Jay's\\" case, ten minutes of internet research showed me claims that Jay (supposedly really Alden Barrett) was never even into the occult at all!  Also, there were claims he was schizophrenic (of which this supposed \\"journal\\" gives no indication), and that \\"Dr.\\" Beatrice Sparks (who should lose her license if this proves true) MADE UP whole sections of the book (more than 50%), weaving in \\"accounts\\" of other teenagers she supposedly knew.<br />One thing for which i am grateful about this book is that Sparks is only a mediocre writer.  Had she produced a more believable account of \\"Jay's Journal\\", i probably never would have become suspicious and taken my suspicions beyond the state of contemplation.<br />I think what is called for here is the publication of \\"Jay's\\" actual journal so the reader sort the rest out for him or herself.	2002-08-18
US	48159920	R1IOLEP09SD0IO	0446359408	827868868	Sybil: The true and extraordinary story of a woman possessed by sixteen separate personalities	Books	4	8	17	N	N	a winner, despite some strong criticisms i have	the winning sides of this book are obvious:  well-detailed, interesting/fascinating, good writing, insightful, clear, ground-breaking, etc.  a great story about a girl with a horribly abusive childhood who spends a fair chunk of her adult life trying to recover from it with the help of a dedicated, intelligent, talented, serious therapist.  it also shows how amazingly creative sybil as a child had to be on an unconscious level to not become absolutely crazy.<br />so all these positives aside, here are my criticisms:  mainly they're with dr. wilbur.  she sets herself up (or the author - dr. wilbur's buddy - sets her up) as PERFECT.  well, i just don't buy it.  many times she did things throughout sybil's analysis that i consider very suspect, and i notice that each time she does them she and/or the author make a quick decisive point of defending them as \\"necessary\\".  such as:  when the doctor decides she needs to \\"speed up\\" sybil's analysis early on by telling the sybil personality about the existence of the other personalities.  it freaks sybil out (not entirely unexpectedly) and later the doctor \\"has to\\" go over to sybil's house and talk her down - after giving her a tranquilizer!  so much for the doctor being against medication!  and the doctor takes NO responsibility for having in large part caused the breakdown.  i had a funny feeling the doctor betrayed sybil's other personalities' confidences to meet the doctor's own needs.  perhaps she felt incompetent that the analysis was going \\"too slow.\\"  or perhaps she was just impatient and wanted to zap the treatment forward.  or perhaps, HEAVEN FORBID, she had a twinge of sadistic motives:  maybe she was pissed off at sybil for being so STUCK and wanted to break her down a little bit, attack her defenses head on.  this i would not doubt!  after all, dr. wilbur is human, and if i felt this 450 page book dragged at points, how the hell did dr. wilbur feel, sitting through over 2000 session hours and who knows how many extra hours!<br />  other things the doctor did that were funky:  becoming friends with sybil?  what's up with that?  talk about bad boundaries.  of course, the doctor could easily defend her bad boundaries by just hiding behind being a wonderful, loving, caring, compassionate therapist - BUT I DON'T BUY IT ENTIRELY.  i think dr. wilbur was trying to prove in some unconscious way to sybil (or to herself) that she, the doctor, was the real opposite of sybil's mom.  perhaps the doctor was trying to defend against some of her own feelings of being LIKE sybil's mom.  and by the way, sybil's exceedingly manipulative behavior at times might drive even the best of us to feel pissed off at her and want to get even at some level.  but not dr. wilbur - oh no! - did you notice that the one feeling she never has toward sybil is ANGER - let alone HATRED?!  i think the doctor couldn't handle those NASTY feelings within herself and simply defended herself against them by ACTING THEM OUT and then calling them therapeutically necessary.<br />  other examples of this:  getting sybil hooked on sodium pentathol to \\"help\\" her treatment.  and what about that little line of getting sybil \\"shock therapy.\\"  yeah, right!<br />and by the way, i read on the internet after finishing the book about the outcome of sybil's life:  she followed dr. wilbur down to lexington kentucky where the two lived nearby...happily ever after...as the best of friends.  what's up with that?  to me that's the sign of a therapist who could NOT LET GO OF HER PATIENT.  talk about bad boundaries!xtra hours!<BR>    other things the doctor did that were funky:  becoming friends with sybil?  what's up with that?  talk about bad boundaries.  of course, the doctor could easily defend her bad boundaries by just hiding behind being a wonderful, loving, caring, compassionate therapist - BUT I DON'T BUY IT ENTIRELY.  i think dr. wilbur was trying to prove in some unconscious way to sybil (or to herself) that she, the doctor, was the real opposite of sybil's mom.  perhaps the doctor was trying to defend against some of her own feelings of being LIKE sybil's mom.  and by the way, sybil's exceedingly manipulative behavior at times might drive even the best of us to feel pissed off at her and want to get even at some level.  but not dr. wilbur - oh no! - did you notice that the one feeling she never has toward sybil is ANGER - let alone HATRED?!  i think the doctor couldn't handle those NASTY feelings within herself and simply defended herself against them by ACTING THEM OUT and then calling them therapeutically necessary.  <BR>    other examples of this:  getting sybil hooked on sodium pentathol to \\"help\\" her treatment.  and what about that little line of getting sybil \\"shock therapy.\\"  yeah, right!<br />and by the way, i read on the internet after finishing the book about the outcome of sybil's life:  she followed dr. wilbur down to lexington kentucky where the two lived nearby...happily ever after...as the best of friends.  what's up with that?  to me that's the sign of a therapist who could NOT LET GO OF HER PATIENT.  talk about bad boundaries!	2002-06-29
US	48159920	RPKOTQA28ZZAK	1573226963	295334796	The Last Time I Wore A Dress	Books	4	6	10	N	N	worth reading, powerful - but a few missing parts	i found this book excellent, and would recommend it to anyone.  it's essential part for me was its criticism of the mental health field in this country, and i feel strongly that it still holds today.  as i myself am a therapist and in the year 2000 worked as a social worker on an inpatient unit with some adolescents, i found her story to be wholly believable.  those poor kids get shelved and pathologized because their parents are incompetent and the mental health field is too.  what daphne needed was for someone to hear her story, listen to her as a person, a human being, not as a diagnosis, a pathology, a sick creature.  in reality, it was obvious from the beginning that she was an intelligent, talented and very vulnerable girl.  i found her an extremely likeable character.<br />as for criticisms:  i felt some of the gender stuff was played up to make the book more marketable, and while i don't doubt that daphne had/has true alternate-gender issues, i felt they weren't explored in as much depth and as succinctly as were other issues in the book (such as the cruelty and idiocy of so much of the mental health field).  perhaps at the time of the book's writing daphne had not yet come to full emotional terms with her gender/gender identity/sexuality.  i actually really can't blame her, considering how difficult, painful, and potentially rejecting it is in our society to be anything other than the gender norm.  nevertheless, i still stand by my criticism.<br />and one last little criticism:  i found the book a little disjointed, always jumping back and forth between different time periods.  it actually didn't actually fail as a technique, but it got annoying at times.<br />this all said:  this book remains WORTH READING!	2002-06-29
US	48159920	R3KUI0KAB53H2B	0471353701	610595807	The Complete Guide to Psychiatric Drugs: Straight Talk for Best Results	Books	3	7	41	N	N	simple, comprehensive book (on a SICK SUBJECT)	strong points:  i'm a therapist who has many patients taking psychiatric meds, and while i don't prescribe them myself (nor have any desire to), i do need to know at least a thumbnail sketch about most of them.  this book does the trick for me.  it avoids the irrelevant and obscure detail of the Physician's Desk Reference and hits on the necessary basics (dosages, side effects, dangers, potential \\"benefits\\", brand versus generic names - and it has a good index!).<br />that said:  this book, like all others of its ilk, almost completely avoids touching on the notion that medication in most cases can be terribly anti-therapeutic, and is prescribed by doctors for much the same reason drug addicts prescribe themselves the assortment of illicit drugs - symptom relief.  these drugs cure no one, just keep people happily numb and in check, and are basically prescribed to help people improve their level of functioning IN THE SHORT TERM.  if it were up to me, i'd restructure the whole system and do away with most of these meds entirely.<br />there's a funny thing i've noticed:  when a patient comes to me and wants both therapy and medication (say, Zoloft), i can almost certainly surmise that he or she has less motivation for doing deep inner work (which produces the long-term gain) than someone who wants therapy alone and is resistant to taking medication.  doing therapy (learning to know oneself at one's deepest level of being) is a painful process.  medication takes away pain.  you do the math.<br />and as for that idea that being on psych meds gives someone a \\"platform from which to do deep inner work\\"?  as for evidence, i haven't seen it.  but i do think it's a great rationalization!	2002-02-10
US	48159920	ROZ5PXW425ZHF	0451528018	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles: 150th Anniversary Edition (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	NOT the best about sherlock holmes, but good!	i've read a fair chunk of sherlock holmes's adventures, and i must say, doyle is at his best when he's writing short stories.  although this book has it's merits (it's still classic doyle about classic sherlock holmes) it's too long and doesn't pack the punch of his shorter works.<br />to whom i would recommend this book:  to real sherlock holmes enthusiasts, who have read pretty much everything else by doyle about him and want to finish up the last few still-nutritious table scraps.<br />to whom i would recommend avoiding this book:  pretty much everybody else, but especially those who are new to sherlock holmes.  you'd be much better off reading &quot;the adventures of sherlock holmes,&quot; &quot;the memoirs of sherlock holmes&quot; (though the ending of was weak weak weak!) or &quot;the return of sherlock holmes.&quot;<br />happy reading, and if you happen to stumble upon this book before reading any of the others, don't worry, it's still pretty good!	2002-01-04
US	48159920	R2RRVXZB7CKM5T	055321439X	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio	Books	4	0	1	N	N	insightful view into small-town depressed people 100 yrs ago	it struck me that the characters featured in this collection were depressed (that is, stuck in their lives).  the book's theme centered on their trying to break free of their depression, mainly through different ways of acting out, such as sex, romance, fantasy, geographical escape, social isolation, amassing money...  some of the characters, however, had some spark of healthiness left in them, as evidenced by their desire to find a confidante and share their true stories.<br />i found this book worth reading for a few reasons:<br />1) i don't find too many books written nearly a hundred years ago (much less today!) that are so honest and frank about such personal subjects.<br />2)  it gave me insight into the character of sherwood anderson.  certainly he would not have been so fascinated with these characters' depression (and stuckness) had he not been afflicted by it as well.  and it explains also why he understood them so well - he was one of them!<br />3)  just plain old good american history, fresh and raw!<br />and my main criticism:  it struck me that anderson's main (emotional) reason for writing this book was to help himself understand his own depression, but the one thing he didn't accomplish through writing this book was figuring out the answer to his problem.  this book lacks redemptive value (and i don't mean religious).  it's not a book that really moves in a direction - it just moves laterally.  the new characters introduced by the end of the book are just as stuck as those introduced in the beginning.  if you're looking for an answer to your depression you won't find it in winesburg, ohio.	2002-01-04
US	48159920	R3M7G3ZVJUPI17	0758200382	32407238	Someone Killed His Boyfriend: A Summer of Sex, Sun and Murder in Provincetown	Books	1	2	6	N	N	sick book - glorifies acting out	first:  will this review be printed?  i always find my reviews censored when i in any way criticize gay subject matter.<br />but honest i shall be:  this book was the pits, totally glorified gay sexual acting out, as well as all the worst of gay culture - shallowness, heavy drinking, surface looks, body-building, pathetic over-focus on male genitalia, money, S&amp;M.  and nary a peep about the consequences of such behavior - depression, isolation, misery, poor relationships, and AIDS (much less other diseases).<br />that said, some of the value of this book (though i admit i found it utterly unfinishable):  witty at times, some fun poked at the gay acting-out lifestyle, but really nothing resembling enough perspective on the subject matter it's treating to be worth anything more than one star.<br />really, a sad, pathetic book.  i wish i could be more complimentary about this book, but i can't.	2002-01-04
US	48159920	R16FEOGVJE6KU1	0425102408	111782299	A Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four (Sherlock Holmes)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	more long-winded than later stuff, but brilliant!	how can you not love anything about sherlock holmes?  i'm pretty new to reading doyle's work, myself, and read one of his later works first and became an instant fan.  now i've got his unabridged works and just read these first two books.<br />they are obviously both vintage doyle, and well worth the reading...but like i said, he's a little long-winded here.  it struck me that he learned to rein in his style better in his later works, and just get to the point.  i suppose doyle is like sherlock holmes in that way - took him a little while to get up to speed and hone his talent.  practice makes perfect!<br />that said, however, even when he goes off on his more abstract tangents he still is pretty darn interesting - such as the whole short story in itself about the mormon colonization of utah.  though i've been to utah several times, i really don't know much about the history of the mormons.  i remember growing up around some mormon families when i was a kid, and they were pretty cold and strict, but were their early leaders really such slimy scoundrels?	2001-12-15
US	48159920	R21JYOIAICC46X	0064403688	527743600	Jacob Have I Loved	Books	4	5	6	N	N	beautiful book - tepid ending	I found myself moved by this book - or by the first nine-tenths of it.  I loved the portrait of the rough, conservative, yet caring island people and for the most part I found the characters and their interactions believable.<br />Where I think the book failed, however, was in its treatment of the main theme - everyone's favoritism of the talented twin over the narrator.  I not only think the author went overboard (pardon the boating pun) with the cruelty, but then trivialized it at the end by attempting to wrap it up sweetly and tie it in a neat bow.  It lacked emotional resolution, and I felt cheated.<br />The girl was practically driven crazy by her family's neglect and not once in the book does anyone but herself ever acknowledge it.  And then the author has the audacity (or lack of emotional insight) to \\"make it all alright\\" at the end by having the mother say, in so many words, \\"but we really loved you all along - we just knew you could take care of yourself, and didn't need our special attention.\\"  Well, this just doesn't cut it for me, but for some reason it does for the narrator.  SHE ACCEPTS IT at face value and then goes on to live happily ever after.  Yeah right!  What happened to all those years of pent up rage?  Don't tell me it disappeared - she just buried it!  That family messed her up, and her acceptance of her mother's lame explanation is just a sign of how shut-down and compromised a life the narrator will go on to live.  For this reason, I would never want to read a sequel to this book.	2001-12-13
US	48159920	R3DPMK62TTUHIG	0679853065	21653852	A Day No Pigs Would Die	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a little book, but by no means little!	Although it's a little book, it's by no means little.  The tale it tells of a boy, his father, and a pig says just about everything worth saying.  It struck me that this book had been percolating in the author's mind for around five decades, and clearly burst out when ripe.<br />This rather odd title got me curious, and I was hooked by page one!  So many marvelous and subtle juxtapositions.  The writing is beautiful, interweaving great modern prose with dialogue in odd but readable post-World War One Vermont farmer and Shaker dialects.  And the boy is a juxtaposition himself, on the cusp of adolescent and on the cusp of leaving behind obsolete Shaker ways.  And his family, conservative and Shaker and backwoods and prudish yet human and emotionally connected and wise and utterly blunt about the facts of life, all at the same time!<br /><br />I love a book in which an author can conjure a time and a place and people long since past, and translate their ways into a language and story we in our fast modern world can easily relate to.  You win with this book!  I loved it!	2001-12-09
US	48159920	R346M1YRY3BRCQ	0064471004	629053508	El Bronx Remembered	Books	5	15	15	N	N	this book is beautiful!	Marvelously written, characters with flesh-and-blood aliveness, fantastic insights into people and culture and situations, very simply and clearly yet subtly written (with great sharp transitions - she doesn't waste your time!), and so emotionally connected - this book brought tears to my eyes several times...which is why I'm recommending it so highly.  Most books can't pull that off.<br />And although at times it is an uplifting book, mostly it's really a sad book, a book about pain and heartache and people who can't fit it, who fall between the cracks, who are rejected by American society at large, and at times their own cultures and families.  It so beautifully depicts people living compromised lives, yet living nonetheless and making the best of it.  It offers a great entrance into a time and place that I don't often get much contact with.  Thank you, Nicholasa (and I loved your book Nilda also)!	2001-12-09
US	48159920	R12CHNPR23I2N7	0440411467	548711598	The Black Pearl  (Newberry Honor Book)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	informative but emotionless	I read this story in one sitting, and found it readable and informative and gripping enough to finish, but the tone is characteristic of Scott O'Dell:  emotionless!  Although I liked the book, I can't say I loved it.  In fact, at several points I felt like saying, \\"who cares?!?\\"<br />I think the whole thing about O'Dell is that there is something empty about his writing, something dead and dry.  When his characters die you don't really feel bothered by it, because it's almost like they were emotionally dead anyway - like he didn't bring them to life.  I think that's why The Island of the Blue Dolphins worked better than this one.  In the Blue Dolphins, the main character really was in an odd way dead - completely separated from her entire family, tribe...and from humanity.  And somehow O'Dell made her seem so much more real - you could relate to her.  In this book, however (just like in Zia), he tries to create a main character who is connected with humanity, with a community, and with a family...but somehow you're just left feeling that those connections are missing.<br />I keep hoping the next book I pick up by him will move me the way Island of the Blue Dolphins did, and I keep getting let down.	2001-12-09
US	48159920	R2RRY9FWQIGBU1	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	4	7	N	N	tells it like it happened	this book lays it on the line - the horror of what the atomic bomb was like from the perspective of several different residents of hiroshima...who were there on august 6, 1945.  it's a clear, well-written (though DRY) account of that horrible day, and if there's any book that's going to make you against nuclear weapons this is it.<br />what shocks me is that people (some who even read this book!) still think dropping this bomb (not to mention the one on nagasaki) was worth it.  granted, there can be a million arguments justifying it, about how it saved lives, and how the japanese committed horrible atrocities too, etc., but just seeing the pure horror this bomb inflicted (through the eyes of these characters) is enough to make me say &quot;no way - going to this degree of horror cannot be justified.&quot;<br />and to all you who still want to argue that dropping this bomb had its merits...and that creating even more destructive nuclear bombs has its merits...well...well...i feel sorry for you.  because horror is horror, and when it comes to weapons of mass destruction we are all innocent.  no one deserves that.	2001-12-07
US	48159920	R27Y7GIYN6SDZ8	0471208884	381868632	Bloomberg by Bloomberg	Books	3	5	7	N	N	a look into a billionaire's charmingly self-gratifying world	mike bloomberg, as revealed in this book:  charmingly pompous billionaire from the working class, insightful egomaniac riddled with perseverance, brilliant workaholic (say that three times), meticulously non-self-revealing innovator, daring, honest and clear-thinking leader, philosophical bigshot and braggart, supremely confident head of the heap...and whoppingly narcissistic!<br />as a book, well, this one has its pluses and minuses.  it reveals a lot about mike bloomberg the man, perhaps more than he intended - primarily his overarching business ambition, which seems to blot out most other areas of his life, including his family life.  he seems not to think this is a problem, and paints a convincing portrait of himself as the happiest man alive.  i wonder if his wife and kids would agree.<br />beyond his world of business and his business history, however, this book is shallow, and tells little or nothing about his personal life (does he even have one? - he may not!) and his personal past (was it really all so picture perfect?! - i doubt it!).  and his few lines devoted to divorcing his wife - how they just *drifted apart* - yeah right!  he probably devoted two paragraphs of the whole book to her...  i'd be curious to hear her side of it.<br />as for a history of his growth as a businessman, however, this book is generally excellent - rich and insightful.  it does get overly and annoyingly technical at points (offering the lay reader the choice between getting a headache and skimming), and goes on WAY too long at other points (skim on!) - both suggesting that he's out of touch with a mass audience.  but on the other hand, he's incredibly IN touch with the business world - with his customer's needs - a quality that, when combined with his need to please, left me no surprise that he did so well in that world.<br />mike bloomberg looks at the world through strange eyes...and his glasses are compelling.  i can't say i share his dream for my future, but i admit to becoming jealous of him at points (i think he unconsciously intends that).  that aside, however, it's hard to walk away from this book and not respect him.<br />meanwhile, i myself never heard of bloomberg until he decided to run for mayor of new york city (where i live).  after reading this, i can only imagine that the next four years in new york will prove interesting...  (by the way, i didn't vote for him - still can't say i trust him...)oming jealous of him at points (i think he unconsciously intends that).  that aside, however, it's hard to walk away from this book and not respect him.  <br />meanwhile, i myself never heard of bloomberg until he decided to run for mayor of new york city (where i live).  after reading this, i can only imagine that the next four years in new york will prove interesting...  (by the way, i didn't vote for him - still can't say i trust him...)	2001-11-25
US	48159920	R1BX5BG4KAFCYE	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	2	13	51	N	N	worth SKIMMING - but don't take it too seriously!	e.b. white was one of my favorite authors when i was a kid, but i dunno, something just tells me that he should have stuck to being a great novelist.  this is a nerd-book, mildly toxic for the obsessive-compulsive within us all.<br />after reading it (and skimming parts), i came to the conclusion that while much of what they said has its merit (as i too get peeved when a book or article uses poor style), this book is really not that important.  it's the heart of a book that counts, and many a great heart has faulty valves and cholesterol deposits.  take gandhi's autobiography:  stylistically deadly, but a heart of gold within.  granted, a strunk-and-whiter could have edited it up a few notches, but it would have been the same book deep within.<br />my final take:  buy this book if it's in the dollar bin, and skim if you have a spare hour.  but if writing's in your blood, strunk and white won't make much of a difference.	2001-11-23
US	48159920	RG70Q82VNEGK2	1573226068	907067822	Drown	Books	4	3	3	N	N	beautiful writing...could have been more cohesive	unusually beautiful writing...it really surprised me.  it's a great thing when a writer from a world not often intimately explored shares it with the reader in a tasteful and hearty mix of that world and the world of high literature.  i marveled at so many of his passages - so true to life, so succinct, so colorful.<br />yet my basic criticisms of this book:<br />1)  although the stories - each of them - were brilliant and cohesive unto themselves, as a whole they didn't add up as well as they might have.  they left me wanting more, and feeling a little used.  it felt like diaz didn't make up his mind whether he wanted to write a collection of disparate, disconnected stories or a book with characters who grew and developed throughout.  for instance, he opened up the marvelous character of rafa, his older brother, and then simply never mentions him again.  what happened to rafa?  diaz left me hanging...<br />2)  i think the book would have worked better had diaz organized it more strictly - say, chronologically.  he jumped and bounced around, like he was striving to fit a gut-true autobiography or pseudo-autobiography into a post-modern mold.<br />3)  to sum this all up, i felt like i just read a fantastic book which had a few of its very important chapters torn out.	2001-11-23
US	48159920	R2HFXWBFG7QG21	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	the Godiva chocolate of junk-food books	Once in a while I need to read some junk food, just to get my mind off stuff, and I came across this little package of unlabeled chocolate (found it in the lobby of my building)...and ate it.  I was expecting Hershey's, but no!  It was Godiva.<br />Good points:  An excellent and clever plot with lots of fast little unexpected twists and turns, characters that were surprisingly more dimensional than one would expect, many sharp little psychological insights, lots and lots and lots of good strong detail about the FBI, the CIA, and most of all, about big-league shooting.  (I used to be a shooter way back when, and I had no idea there was so much intricacy to it.  I just bought the gun, loaded it, aimed it as best I could, and shot it...and didn't think too much.)  Also, the \\"good guy\\" characters are extremely sympathetic, and you can't wait for the \\"bad guys\\" to get what's coming to them.  Lastly, the book is LONG, so it doesn't just start and stop and leave you wanting more.<br />Weaknesses:  at times a little predictable, and at times certain characters somewhat overdone (like Dr. Dobbler - he was just a one-trick pony, which is unrealistic for a &quot;brilliant&quot; psychiatrist, and he could have had more character growth).  And lastly, though perhaps this isn't fair, I find myself wondering what motivates someone like Stephen Hunter to write a book like this...a book which, despite its interesting and quick points and rich detail, has very little philosophically or emotionally growth-oriented about it.  I guess it's the same thing that motivates someone out there to spend their life developing the ultimate formula for Godiva chocolate.  But then again, thank god for Godiva!	2001-11-11
US	48159920	R3FUDC77F10XX7	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	2	26	37	N	N	enchanting at times, but definitely not a classic	I think the real appeal of this book - why millions of all ages have been drawn to it - is its strong basic theme.  It's the story of an abused and under-appreciated person being recognized for his true inner greatness.  It's easy to relate to because this greatness lives within each of us, and this story gives us hope that maybe...someday...our own greatness will be recognized.<br />My problem with this book is that this great theme - this classic theme - is rendered into a weak story.  The Hobbit works off the same theme, but J.R.R Tolkien weaves his story with far more finesse.  The Hobbit's character development is slow and subtle, with depth and insight.  Harry Potter, on the other hand, goes from being a miserable, abused, depressed kid to being a worshipped bigshot in a matter of two pages, which amounts to the entire character development in the story.  To make matters worse, the entire shift happens through no work or perseverance of his own.  Bilbo Baggins has to work and has to face real emotional challenges...and you grow to respect him for it.  Harry Potter:  he's essentially the same character at page 50 and page 310.<br />And the Hobbit...what tension in the story!  It followed an emotional arc, slowly unfolding, with the unique and many-sided characters become increasingly lovable and admirable.  Harry Potter lacked this tension, being dull and unsuspenseful by comparison.  I found myself not really caring what happened in the end, and not really being emotionally drawn to any of the characters.  I'll probably forget their names in a few days...  I remember the Hobbit's characters' names years later.<br /> And Harry Potter:  it read like a trivia book...tons and tons of irrelevant names and details and characters and side stories.  It just felt like fluff...the kind kids like to read and amass...but doesn't make for an enduring book.<br />And last extremely annoying point:  why is it that a bunch of completely untrained 11 year olds are able to use better magic and logic and intelligence than the greatest wizards and witches in the world?  It makes for a cute story, but not a cohesive one.<br />So all in all, I predict that this book - and series, from what I can guess - will not become a classic, not even remotely in the same boat as the Hobbit or James and the Giant Peach or Charlie and the Chocolate Factory...<br /> If you really want to read a good book, don't buy the hype and read this one...there are others that are better.e better magic and logic and intelligence than the greatest wizards and witches in the world?  It makes for a cute story, but not a cohesive one.<br />So all in all, I predict that this book - and series, from what I can guess - will not become a classic, not even remotely in the same boat as the Hobbit or James and the Giant Peach or Charlie and the Chocolate Factory...<br /> If you really want to read a good book, don't buy the hype and read this one...there are others that are better.	2001-11-09
US	48159920	RN0MUHDBBSZQP	0465045847	814635651	The Truth Will Set You Free	Books	4	60	64	N	N	a re-tread of her wonderful and classic point of view	It's hard not to give anything by Alice Miller five stars, because I think she's the greatest psychology writer out there today - at least the one who's influenced my personal growth and my work as a psychotherapist the most - BUT...  But, this book just isn't her greatest, and I found the same problem with it that I found with her last few books...that they're really just a re-tread of her old themes, and her ideas just aren't expanding that much further than those presented in her early classics (For Your Own Good, Drama of the Gifted Child, Thou Shalt Not Be Aware).  Granted, this book has its little gems, little case studies here and there in which she expresses her point of view from a slightly new angle, little lines in which she hits the nail right on the head, but if you read her classics and you avoid this book you won't be missing much.<br />That said, if this is the first (or only) Alice Miller book you come across, you really won't be let down.  And perhaps that's her point.  In each of her books she presents a concise version of her whole point of view, as if to make sure you don't miss it.  And since her point of view is truly classic, so is each of her books regardless of its repetitious nature...this one included.	2001-10-18
US	48159920	RVK2FA83CISDC	0399134212	687810761	Voices from Home	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a strong story, but SLOW...and much tangential information	i read this whole book, and don't regret having done so.  caudle really got into the head of his main character, and told a unique and honest story, one better than so many of the hip, modern young adult books out now.  it's vein of honesty and lack of pretension were really its strongest points.<br />that said...WHAT THIS BOOK NEEDED AND LACKED MOST WAS A GOOD EDITOR!!!  some of the characters desperately needed to be tightened up (the black friend Tina Triplett), and the story line needed to be condensed just as desperately.  at times i just got plain sick of reading about tangents into essentially irrelevant and not even very interesting areas.  i only continued reading because of the story's strong and clear essence.  the main character, her father, her brother, and her mother - and all of their relationships were on the money.<br />last gripe:  the cruelty of the child protective services workers, Ramona, was over the top, as was the character of the friend Tina, and these two characters...so unlike the others in the book...came across as caricatures of potential characters.	2001-10-18
US	48159920	RWA18XVO7OCL9	0553273213	954102735	Goodbye, Mr. Chips	Books	5	5	6	N	N	a beautiful book, which I heartily recommend	I marveled at this book, which passed my tests with flying colors.  Mr. Chips was a delightful and subtle balance of a lovable, caring teacher and a mildly pathetic person...so real...so true to life.  It's the story of an unfulfilled man who falls into his place in the world and grows to accept it as best he can, and becomes loved by others in the process.<br />I found myself increasingly awed by the writer's style as the book proceeded.  There was an extreme comfort in his flow, like he knew exactly what he wanted to say and how to say it.  He was brief yet descriptive, sometimes so perfectly and marvelously descriptive that it really brought me hook, line and sinker into the world of his story - rare in a book, and especially in one so gentle and tender.  It was no surprise for me to find he wrote the book in four days - this book was no hard labor of creation...this book flowed from his essence.  I don't think a book can get much better than this.  This is what writing is all about.  I wish libraries were full of books of this quality.	2001-10-18
US	48159920	R1C594A5UB6VE5	0934770611	447743637	Nilda	Books	5	8	8	N	N	an unpretentious and realistic story	Finally, I get to read a young adult coming-of-age book that doesn't pretend to be anything it isn't!  It isn't a grandiose book of romance and drugs and wonder, with the teenager becoming a hero or tragic hero.  It's just a simple story of a poor New York born Puerto Rican girl hitting her adolescence during WWII, a story of love, pain, fear, discrimination, poverty, abuse, narrow-minded immigrants, relationship problems, puberty, desire for upward mobility - but none of it told in the sensational or overly dramatic way of so many young adult books.  It's simple, to the point, discreet.  It reminds me of that statement some famous movie director said about another director:  \\"He showed us more with a closed door than most directors do with an open zipper.\\"  It was a book I could enjoy.  It didn't have a strong plot, but it had powerful flesh-and-blood character with hearts and desires.  I would say that the main character struck me as depressed, and actually, you might say most or all of the people in the book - or perhaps the culture at the time - walked around in a cloud of low-level depression.<br /><br />Although I gave the book five stars, it wasn't the kind of book that sets stars blazing in the sky.  It was just a no-nonsense and no-frills portrayal of a time, a place, and a culture...  I would whole-heartedly recommend it.	2001-09-12
US	48159920	RYQHXQMUDQSU1	0679886370	411811908	Stargirl	Books	2	7	15	N	N	a dangerous book, as Stargirl's character didn't add up	My problem with Stargirl was that her character didn't add up on an emotional level.  Spinelli made her into a being of supposedly higher consciousness - an attempt for which I commend him - yet as an author he had no idea what the character of someone of higher consciousness would actually be like.  What he didn't understand about her character he simply disguised as mysterious, mystical and elusive.  Yet if she were really as marvelous and wonderful and insightful and deep as she was supposed to be, she would never have been so elusive.  I think she would have been more sincere and upfront, honest about what she was really feeling, not always throwing questions back at the narrator like some sort of deceptive psychotherapist.<br />We all have desires to break from the mold, to be unique, to stand up to the heartless crowd (ultimately our parents), to be the SELVES we really are deep down under it all.  That's why the beginning of the book was so beautiful...and terrifying...because Stargirl clearly did it.  She was her own person...unique and gutsy and bizarre...she had come out the other side of fakeness...she had some mysterious other-worldly quality.  Yet when Spinelli dug deeper into her and tried to make her into a full and real character, one who had feelings and who interacted, he failed to break through her mystery.  The more he described her, the clearer it became that he had no idea what made her tick, that he was out of his league as a writer.  So he faked it, and made her a disciple of silly pursuits like self-denying meditation...note this...SELF-DENYing.  Since Spinelli couldn't describe her SELF he just did the opposite...took the easy way out and made her HERSELF deny herself.<br />As such, as the book went on it became more and more wooden, black and white:  Stargirl polarized against the WHOLE school, and having no comprehension of why, nor any feelings of regret - not even a three year old would believe that.  Maybe that's the problem, that a three year old wouldn't believe this book, because a three year old is too emotionally honest to believe the kind of deception Spinelli weaves.  And then the issue of Stargirl in a \\"beautiful\\" romance - completely fake, no flesh and blood emotions behind it, simply inserted to catch and titillate an adolescent audience...but no emotionally consistent reason for it being in the book, or in line with her unique character.<br />Stargirl is the character we would all like to be, and Spinelli realizes this, as he apparently wants to be it himself, but he as an author lacks the emotional insight to lead us further down the path toward self-understanding.  What we're left with in Stargirl is a frustrating book that actually takes us in the opposite direction from real self-understanding, and instead toward self-denial...which is exactly what the real Stargirl - unlike the one Spinelli wrote about - would NEVER do.  I sense Spinelli worships Milton Erickson, the famous and not coincidentally Arizona hypnotherapist who \\"cured\\" people by making them more dissociated, and in one famous case study \\"cured\\" a female patient by instructing her to give away - get this - African violets, and she became the famous lady of dissociated goodwill.<br />An author who shines real light on the path toward making a Stargirl is Alice Miller, and deceptive, mysterious, feelingless and self-denying she is NOT!<br />All in all, Spinelli does to the real Stargirl what so many modern Christians do to Jesus, tries to make them into something they're not, and yet set them up as an ideal at the same time, because they know that deep down we all want what the real Jesus and the real Stargirl had..  For this reason I see this book, like much of modern religion, as dangerous...ree year old wouldn't believe this book, because a three year old is too emotionally honest to believe the kind of deception Spinelli weaves.  And then the issue of Stargirl in a \\"beautiful\\" romance - completely fake, no flesh and blood emotions behind it, simply inserted to catch and titillate an adolescent audience...but no emotionally consistent reason for it being in the book, or in line with her unique character.<br />Stargirl is the character we would all like to be, and Spinelli realizes this, as he apparently wants to be it himself, but he as an author lacks the emotional insight to lead us further down the path toward self-understanding.  What we're left with in Stargirl is a frustrating book that actually takes us in the opposite direction from real self-understanding, and instead toward self-denial...which is exactly what the real Stargirl - unlike the one Spinelli wrote about - would NEVER do.  I sense Spinelli worships Milton Erickson, the famous and not coincidentally Arizona hypnotherapist who \\"cured\\" people by making them more dissociated, and in one famous case study \\"cured\\" a female patient by instructing her to give away - get this - African violets, and she became the famous lady of dissociated goodwill.<br />An author who shines real light on the path toward making a Stargirl is Alice Miller, and deceptive, mysterious, feelingless and self-denying she is NOT!<br />All in all, Spinelli does to the real Stargirl what so many modern Christians do to Jesus, tries to make them into something they're not, and yet set them up as an ideal at the same time, because they know that deep down we all want what the real Jesus and the real Stargirl had..  For this reason I see this book, like much of modern religion, as dangerous...	2001-09-09
US	48159920	RTRZS4SN2C5MT	0689807775	488096622	Rats Saw God	Books	2	3	13	N	N	more fancy garbage in the young adult genre	This story is typical of the \\"quality\\" young adult books out there - it presents \\"what is\\" in a clear and realistic light, but offers nothing to help get a reader, that is, a growing, seeking person, beyond what is presently our version of reality.<br />Some parts of this story were excellent, such as its portrayal of teen angst and pain, miscommunication with out-of-it parents, shaky loyalties with siblings and friends, desire to fit it, and willingness to drink and smoke pot (and do who knows what else) to accomplish the goals of ridding oneself of unwanted and uncomfortable feelings.  Incidentally, such teen problems as these are not only limited to teens, which is what makes this book so much more universal than just for a teen audience (I'm 29).  I guess they're universal to the crying teenager within us all.<br />The parts of this book I found unnecessary, gratuitous and even harmful were the sex/romance parts.  I'm not a prude by any means, and I've been through my share of sex and drugs and pain, but I think it's very dangerous to present teen sex - or sex at any age - in such an idealized light, as if sex and romance will solve anything.  It won't, and in fact just obscures the real problems - it's like a drug unto itself.  I think the author added all the sex and romance to capture readers, and perhaps also did it for the chance to indulge in writing a little legitimized porn of his own.  But to present that relationship between Steve and Dub as idealized - even if it did come crashing down - is inappropriate.  I think teens, and adults too, should wait to have sex (or even deeper romance) until they're really ready to handle the emotional consequences, and to let the real depth, consistency and loyalty of the emotional love of their relationship be a prerequisite for the sex.  Just so you know, I know almost no one who qualifies as appropriate to be having sex, and also so you don't think I'm a freak in my viewpoint, you might try reading Gandhi's autobiography.<br />When asked the question by one of his readers about whether he thinks it's possible for a man and a woman (though I feel it's no different for gay relationships) to have an emotionally healthy sexual relationship, Gandhi replies:  \\"yes, I think it's possible...but I just don't think I'm capable of it.\\"  So when Rob Thomas sets up a book to make teen romance and teen sex so tempting and charming and ideal, I can't help but be annoyed, disgusted, and unhappy.  I think he does a real disservice to genuine human growth.ography.<br />When asked the question by one of his readers about whether he thinks it's possible for a man and a woman (though I feel it's no different for gay relationships) to have an emotionally healthy sexual relationship, Gandhi replies:  \\"yes, I think it's possible...but I just don't think I'm capable of it.\\"  So when Rob Thomas sets up a book to make teen romance and teen sex so tempting and charming and ideal, I can't help but be annoyed, disgusted, and unhappy.  I think he does a real disservice to genuine human growth.	2001-09-09
US	48159920	R2HEWR9WO98E01	044022599X	45115444	I Know You Really Love Me: A Psychiatrist's Account of Stalking and Obsessive Love	Books	3	19	31	N	N	excellent, but lacking a fulfilling depth	excellent because:  grippingly written, obviously well-researched, carefully thought-out, and with powerfully expressed feelings of terror and powerlessness.<br />my critique:  it sounds horrible to say, but I wonder if Doreen Orion really did all she could to protect herself from her stalker.  it struck me that her only real growth in the book in relation to her stalker was to become a better legal advocate for herself, and as such the book degraded from a personal journey into a legalistic and advocacy morass.<br />then:  I couldn't help but raise an eyebrow when she said how she met her psychiatrist fianc&eacute; - that he was her THERAPEUTIC SUPERVISOR!  she failed to see the parallel in power dynamics between the beginning of her relationship with her fianc&eacute;e and the beginning of her &quot;stalker's&quot; relationship with her!  although I don't want to jump to any conclusions, I felt this was completely unmined territory in the book (and in Orion's personal life), and my raised antennae tell me there's more to this than meets the eye...<br />some other questions in the same vein:  it seemed, as of publication of the book, that Orion's stalker was still at large, and would almost certainly read this book.  why would Orion even open this door?  I think she, like many writers and would-be famous people, use the most awful bits of their own personal life to launch themselves into the public eye, to get even more famous - but wouldn't that just fan the flames of an erotomanic?  perhaps at some deep and unspoken-of level, despite her true horror of being stalked, she gets some primal gratification from the attention of her stalker, and somehow her stalker picks up on it...like the two of them feed each other...and actually are in a relationship.<br />finally:  never does Doreen Orion mention some vital relationships of her own - that with any therapists of her own, or, and I think most importantly, with her parents.  I can only wonder what knowledge of the dynamics between Orion and these important others would add to my understanding of her apparently still-evolving relationship with her stalker.etween Orion and these important others would add to my understanding of her apparently still-evolving relationship with her stalker.	2001-09-07
US	48159920	R1GKYXPPHWRFMC	0393310396	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	3	7	22	N	N	more questions than answers	In theory, I think this book is wonderful.  It's the timeless story of a wise and worldly teacher sharing his wisdom with a young and innocent and admiring student, telling him to look within, to avoid love for now and seek solitude and personal reflection instead, to first study life in its tiniest and least significant forms in order to discover true beauty, etc.<br />My shock with this book came AFTER reading it, when I discovered that Rilke HIMSELF was only 27 or 28 years old (!) when he started writing to the young poet.  For me, his age did not jive with his tone, which was that of a 85 year old world-weary sage.  It could be he really was wise beyond his years, but I can't help but have the suspicion that some arrogance on his part might be at play.<br />And then, all his talk about the young poet not seeking love, not attempting love poems, not being able to understand love for some time yet - all wonderful and perhaps true advice...but Rilke himself had already married by 25 or 26, and was a father a year later.  is he perhaps giving out the advice that he himself cannot take?  Or seeing all his own unfulfilled (and perhaps denied) hopes for himself in the young and naive poet?<br />All this said, I feel Rilke was a man far ahead of his time, and perhaps one who knew too much about himself and human nature to ever really find true happiness in the time in which he was living.  It's just a sixth sense I get about him, and it may be off the mark, so I write this with some hesitancy - perhaps I'm wrong!<br />In the meantime, I must learn more about the life of Rilke, otherwise this book shall lack a context for me...	2001-09-02
US	48159920	RLD1OAPQ82PFB	0140240128	245597055	A Shining Affliction: A Story of Harm and Healing in Psychotherapy	Books	5	12	25	N	N	a strong memoir	At its best it reminded me strongly of I Never Promised You A Rose Garden, in that it shows the healing relationship between an excellent therapist and a disturbed female patient.  This book had the added benefit of having the patient/author also be a therapist, and while being healed herself doing a marvelous job of participating in the healing of a young boy whose problems are remarkably similar to her own.<br /><br />The book was beautifully written, very open and revealing, and gentle in its nature.  I also was grateful to hear the author write of her experiences with a TERRIBLE therapist, who, for self-protection, violated therapeutic boundaries left and right and essentially drove the author mad.<br /><br />Well worth the read.	2001-09-01
US	48159920	R36RWCCZFEZW07	0897895371	265797815	Talking About Therapy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	the part that actually talked about therapy was excellent	This book of vignettes about people's experiences in and opinions about their own therapies was excellent...truly informative.  As a therapist myself, I found it appealing and worth the read, especially with the people who were in therapy in the forties and fifties, because I don't hear enough of that perspective.  I also liked the range of people and therapy types the book covered...though granted, it only covered a certain portion of those in therapy (i.e. entirely lacking any racially minority voices, said nothing about purely supportive therapy, didn't touch all the patients whose Medicaid pays for their therapy...).<br />The book's main drawback, however, was that its authors tried to make it into something it really wasn't...  They tried to make it into a textbook or reference book of sorts, something more than just a collection of vignettes.  They (ironically, like so many therapists) had to get in their own two cents constantly, and did it by fleshing everything out with theory, explanations, long-winded chapter and vignette introductions, summaries, recaps, expansions on themes, tepid historical insights...PURE DULLNESS, but moreso, unnecessary.  Once I realized where the real power of the book lay, I just skipped over everything the authors had to say (or almost everything...at times they said an interesting thing or two about a famous therapist) and read the words of the people themselves, and worth it they were!<br />One last criticism:  the authors feigned objectivity in describing different schools of therapy, but time and time again their stilted points of view seeped through.  One example I can think of offhand was their explanation for why psychoanalysts are slow \\"to endorse\\" psychotropic medications:  they said it was \\"because some of their patients have progressed without them and [because of their sometimes intolerable] side effects.\\"  While these may both be perfectly true reasons, they fail to mention the main reason I MYSELF don't endorse them - because, as Alice Miller says (and interestingly, her book Drama of the Gifted Child is mentioned glowingly several times in various vignettes), medications reduce symptoms, and symptoms provide the clue that allows people to trace emotionally their own traumas back into their childhoods...and thus heal.  Medication lops off the symptom, gives temporary relief, but prevents deeper healing!- because, as Alice Miller says (and interestingly, her book Drama of the Gifted Child is mentioned glowingly several times in various vignettes), medications reduce symptoms, and symptoms provide the clue that allows people to trace emotionally their own traumas back into their childhoods...and thus heal.  Medication lops off the symptom, gives temporary relief, but prevents deeper healing!	2001-09-01
US	48159920	R1XVD60AUNT1OH	0060931736	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	unique, but with many weaknesses	The good points:  an interesting story, which is at basic about a woman with a powerful and magnetic personality who used young girls to meet her own unmet personal needs - a manipulator extraordinaire.  At first she is presented as a sort of hero and receives the girls' worship, but as the book progresses it becomes clear how unpleasant of a person she really is, despite the positive effects she has on some of the girls.  Also positive in this book is that its plot definitely moves in a solid forward direction and it has a good smattering of flesh-and-blood characters and enough low-level perversity (mild examples of adults seducing teenage girls, and description about girls' developing chests, etc.) to keep the reader more-or-less expectant, or perhaps terrified, of what might just happen next...<br />The weak points:<br />1) much of the writing itself was quite dull, even repetitive, and so often the grammar - in the PROSE! - was horrendous, with the worst offenders being run-on sentences that cause you to knock your head against the wall.<br />2) much of the information provided about the characters was repeated over and over again, almost like the author was doing it purposefully and for some sort of quaint humorous effect, which at first it was, but soon became simply annoying and insulting to the reader.  I began to wonder if what the book really lacked was a strong editor.<br />3) Tons of extraneous detail about subjects that added nothing to the plot's core, subjects such as religion, politics, and who-knows-what-else.  Once I recognized the detritus for what it was I started skimming, to no ill effects on my enjoyment of the book<br />4) The book was set up with the expectation of coming to a powerful climax, but the author basically gave away the ending throughout the book, so that by the end there came no sense of fulfillment...	2001-09-01
US	48159920	R1VWWGHB9EHF8O	0201570718	1383492	Therapy Gone Mad: The True Story Of Hundreds Of Patients And A Generation Betrayed	Books	5	14	14	N	N	frightening!	This book was chilling, and I give it a full two thumbs up for being so clear, thought out, well-researched and well-presented.  It gave a play-by-play account of how a cult is created, and how people in need of healing are sucked into it...and trade their lives away for membership in it.  It is also a beautiful example of how compelling such cult life is, and shows some of the clear benefits - despite the horrors - of being in such a world:  the community, protection, camaraderie, agreement with a firm point of view.  These are things we all want and strive for in our own ways - but god, how much these people had to sacrifice to achieve it.  They sacrificed themselves and their self-respect...and also built their world on a house of cards.<br />Mild criticism:  I think author could have gone deeper with the book had she further explored the parallel relationship between the cult dynamics and the dynamics of its members' abusive families of origin (as does Alice Miller in For Your Own Good).  I think all therapy - and all adult relationships - entails the risk of such a non-healing re-creation, essentially just acting out, but what's most frightening is when therapists, like those in this book, not only participate in it...but NURTURE IT for their own benefits.<br />Other criticism:  the book was too long-winded.  I could have happily read a condensed version of this book and gotten just as much out of it.  400+ pages was just too much, yet due to the book's ever-changing nature, it was a tough one to skim.	2001-09-01
US	48159920	R2WQVGYL59TY0P	1881649849	426635550	Sammy Davis Jr.: My Father	Books	3	16	22	N	N	a daughter's tribute to her neglectful, self-centered father	The sometimes touching story of a girl who wants nothing more in the world than her famous and utterly neglectful father to just love her and recognize her.  Much of the book is a pathetic story of this sick alcoholic father doing just about everything humanly possible in life BUT give her what she needs.  The odd thing about this book, though really not odd considering how common it is, is that this girl goes through her life so utterly proud of her failure of a father, proud of all his accomplishments, proud of the famous people he hobnobs with, proud of how much time he gives them, proud of how fancy and star-studded his parties are, proud of how much he loves his audiences and spares them no attention, proud of how much money he has, and vicariously proud of herself for just being the daughter of one so awesome.<br />It's really a sad book, its saddest aspect being that the daughter, while writing, doesn't even realize that though she felt her father \\"came around\\" in the end and really learned to love her and treat her well, it never really happened!  Sammy David, Jr. DIDN'T come around in the end and learn to love his daughter, his daughter simply matured and learned to relate to him more on his level, thus meeting more of his needs and making a relationship with her that much more palatable to HIM.<br />The reason I found this book worthwhile enough to plow through was that it gave a strong inside view into the life of an extremely wounded and self-centered man and showed now just how much his neglect affected his child, but also how distorted HER thinking could be as a result of this neglect, allowing her to mistake his few crumbs of love far too late in life for the nutritious meal she once deserved.<br />This book is really a daughter's tribute to her famous father.  My question, really, is her motive for writing it.  I suspect that she had grandiose motivations of her own, and wants to bask in the sunlight of her father's glory.  I'm always suspicious of tell-alls like this, especially ones that tell \\"dirty\\" secrets of still living people who are close to the writers, such as things like the alcoholism of her step-mother, her brother's drug abuse and homelessness...and her own suicide attempt.  Although I'm not a puritan by any means, I feel some of these things, for the author's own personal and emotional safety, would be better left told to a therapist...ell-alls like this, especially ones that tell \\"dirty\\" secrets of still living people who are close to the writers, such as things like the alcoholism of her step-mother, her brother's drug abuse and homelessness...and her own suicide attempt.  Although I'm not a puritan by any means, I feel some of these things, for the author's own personal and emotional safety, would be better left told to a therapist...	2001-08-19
US	48159920	REULKSHONBYB2	0345432401	684734174	Omerta	Books	4	2	4	N	N	POWERFUL, but beneath the surface a Godfather carbon copy	I was amazed at how similar Omerta was to the Godfather, almost like Puzo was writing - or stuck - in the same groove of thirty years earlier.  So many of the anecdotes were utterly parallel to those in the Godfather, as were so many relationships, and even personalities.  We had the Michael Corleone character, the Vito Corleone, the Tattaglias, the Kay Adams...and so many more.  This was a disappointment - I somehow expected him to write a more distinct and new book.  This detracted from its potential fulfillment.<br />Book's basic strengths:  a powerful plot, quick action, strong storytelling, mostly convincing characters, excellent use of detail, and at times heavy suspense... Vintage Puzo.<br />And weaknesses:<br />1)  Puzo does not give insight into the character of Viola, rather, simply sets him up as a sort of superhuman demigod, flawless, powerful, brilliant.  He gives no real, solid reason to explain why someone so intelligent and cunning would have the deep inner need to crave so much power, and to risk so much to get it.  Any reasonably intelligent, insightful, and non-damaged person would have let go of the reins of such dangerous power, gotten rid of the banks, and walked away with a clear billion or so dollars.  Yet Puzo touts Viola's near fatal flaw as a strength!  Psychologically speaking, I think what underlies Puzo writing a book that hinges on this basic flaw is that Puzo is in denial of this very flaw in himself.  I think believe he wishes he had been powerful enough as a child to stand up to his omnipotent and abusive parents, but not being conscious of that in adulthood, acts it out through his utterly grandiose characters who thumb their noses as death and horde power at all costs - these Dons, Violas, Michael Corleones.<br />2)  Unlike in the godfather, where Michael Corleone WON the Mafia battle but LOST the personal one, Viola WON and Mafia battle AND ALSO WON the personal one!  This double-win defeated some of Omerta's potential strength (strength that the Godfather retained), namely, letting the reader know that winning the power struggle is really no inner win at all...  This leads me to infer that Mario Puzo himself has not made headway in resolving his own childhood issues in the past thirty years...and in fact has probably taken a few steps backward...<br />3)  Some surprisingly wooden dialogue, especially early on in the book - I was surprised that Puzo would/could make dialogue so fake...perhaps he's losing his touch.strength that the Godfather retained), namely, letting the reader know that winning the power struggle is really no inner win at all...  This leads me to infer that Mario Puzo himself has not made headway in resolving his own childhood issues in the past thirty years...and in fact has probably taken a few steps backward...<br />3)  Some surprisingly wooden dialogue, especially early on in the book - I was surprised that Puzo would/could make dialogue so fake...perhaps he's losing his touch.	2001-08-19
US	48159920	RF0SJEKJD2GO1	0613171373	817918233	A Child Called &#34;&#34;It&#34;&#34;: One Child's Courage To Survive (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Horrible abuse...but massive denial still persists	\\"It\\"s two stars go to the first chunk of the book, in which the factual portrayal of abuse against the boy took place.  He amazingly remembered a lot of it, to his credit, and it was horrific!  As far as I was concerned, however, the rest of the book was junk.<br /><br />Book's weak points:<br /><br />1) \\"the third worst case of child abuse in the state of California\\" - pure grandiosity!  Yes, that boy went through living hell, but c'mon, who's rating?<br /><br />2) His idea that he's so completely turned his life around, worked through his abuse, and is now living a purely positive life - gimme a break!?!  I didn't feel he really worked through his abuse all that much.  What I did feel was that he walled off all his feelings around the abuse and simply moved on with his life, put his abuse past him.  Only in that way, I believe, could he have written such an emotionally dead story of his own abuse.  This book lacked feeling!  It was more like he was just retelling what happened on a surface level - but not on an emotional level within.<br /><br />3) And the tell-all:  supposedly the author has really worked through his abuse, but I don't feel he's broken the abuse cycle at all, with the dead giveaway for me being what he did with his adult life:  joined the Air Force, and \\"played a major role\\" in Desert Storm, joining in the slaughter and destruction of Iraq, a great way for an out-of-touch person to act out the anger and hostility for one's own deeply buried (but still perfectly alive) emotional wounds of childhood.  Incidentally, didn't the U.S. destruction of Iraq's infrastructure and economy (surely in part by Air Force bombing) leave something like a million or two Iraqi children destitute?  Sounds like abuse to me!  (Perhaps even worse than the Third Worst Case In California!)  And yet, does Dave Pelzer speak against that?  No, he brags about his \\"unique\\" accomplishments!	2001-08-19
US	48159920	RXFS4T69BTRRO	0671735608	636074540	Nigger	Books	4	41	53	N	N	A strong memoir, a weak ending	A strong memior, lots of touching and interesting detail about his life growing up, his constant struggle to overcome adversity.  I totally empathized with his hustling and lying at points to get ahead in a world so poised against him.  the main thing I liked about the book was his VERY HUMAN side, his compassion for himself, his pain he suffered at being poor, mostly fatherless, black, dirty, hungry, uneducated.  I loved it that he could cry, he could keep his humanity despite the world's cruelty...and not just keep it and feel it, but write about it later.<br />  Weak point:  the ending petered out.  It went from being a man's internal struggle to \\"make it\\" in the world - the place in which I found the book's power lay - to being just another typical civil rights journal.  And although I think the civil rights movement has its place, and Dick Gregory his place within it, I think I would have found the book far more satisfying it ended by its author turning further inward and exploring his own motives on his own purely personal journey, rather than outward to the struggle of society.  Perhaps he wasn't ready to write on this level when he published his memoir, as he was only 30 or 31 when he wrote it, but to me his lack of wisdom still doesn't let the book off the hook.	2001-08-05
US	48159920	R1V5EN1Y5ITTJJ	0451527011	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not bad for the first novel in the english language&iquest;	I admit, I was truly impressed by this book.  Of course, Ive heard of the book for years, but for some reason always just assumed it would be dull.  Well, dull it was not!  It was really a beautiful story.  Actually, it took a little while to become beautiful, as its first hefty chunk, with Crusoe leaving England, travelling around the world, trying to become rich, becoming an adventurer and then a slave, it was all a little slowand perhaps fake.  But once he made it to his deserted island, THIS BOOK BECAME A TRUE WINNER!  His struggle to make it and survive and live a life of some quality and not go absolutely nuts from isolation and loneliness, it was a true gem, and for me, easy to relate to, despite the fact that defoe wrote it nearly 300 years ago.  I really did not expect much from this book, not nearly as much as I got.  I found the detail involved in his life on the island surprisingly welcome, and I found myself very caught up emotionally in crusoes struggle, and almost sick at the idea of him ALL ALONE on that island for decades.<br />  Books weak points (in my opinion):  I found almost everything on religion and morality in this book dull, and I skimmed over it.  it frankly didnt make sense to me how robinson crusoe, who was (or became) so enlightened in so many ways never could really see beyond the bounds of his petty little religion, as exemplified best (or worst) in his (...) conversion of Friday to christianity.  From the beginning of the book I found defoes/crusoes soliloquies on religion suspect, and I wondered if defoe himself was just putting them in to satisfy his audiences limited morality, to keep them off his trail, so to speak.  Or perhaps he put them in just to allow the book to pass the censors pensor to keep himself out of jailbut that deep down he didnt for a second buy all the religion crusoe supposedly espoused.  Perhaps Ill never know, but its just a feeling	2001-08-05
US	48159920	R1Z9P7C03S6X4K	0787102822	911751082	Mastering the Gentle Art of Verbal Self-Defense	Books	2	12	21	N	N	learn to spar verbally with people...not worth sparring with	i found the book interesting enough to give a few hours to...because Elgin's really studied this carefully, but what really struck me loud and clear as i read on is that she misses the most OBVIOUS (and most emotionally healthy, or martically artistic) option for how to deal with verbally aggressive/abusive people:  TO GET AWAY FROM THEM!  (and she forgets that SAYING NOTHING...i.e. not engaging...is a form of verbal communication too.)  the &quot;presupposition&quot; (she loves that word) she completely misses is that people don't always HAVE to stay (stuck) in verbally abusive relationships, and she never really suggests, either subtly or overtly, that people can leave.  her basic unspoken assumption is that you should stay and learn how to spar better verbally so as not to be verbally taken advantage of and trampled.  (rather a conservative point of view for a &quot;modern&quot; feminist, wouldn't you say?)<br />one other thing that irked me:  she often suggests that in times of real emotional attack the best verbal mode to enter into is &quot;computer&quot; mode.  psychologically, what she's suggesting is to pull one's emotions out of the interaction...to basically emotionally detach from the situation...and become an analytical computer that lacks a self.  the people who have really mastered this art into the marrow of their personalities have earned a label in psychology:  that of schizoid personality disorder.<br />i hate to say it, but i think this book is really a big crock, and while i did find parts of it engaging, as i think analyzing interactions to be fascinating, as a self-help book, which is really what it is, i found it to be USELESS!<br />other gripe:  she makes FAR TOO MANY stereotypes about men's and women's patterns of verbal interaction, and while she makes occasional attempts to demonstrate that such stereotypes are not always so, she still regularly falls back into them, suggesting she has an emotional bone to pick of her own.<br />and finally, a saying i love, that applies here:  &quot;don't argue with idiots...they'll drag you down to their level and beat you with experience...&quot;y, a saying i love, that applies here:  &quot;don't argue with idiots...they'll drag you down to their level and beat you with experience...&quot;	2001-07-27
US	48159920	R1HGV5JQ1530LI	0140367497	474714897	The Prince and the Pauper (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	on the money...if you can handle the detail!	really a moving book, a great concept, a real emotion jerker that  holds true 120 years after it was written (quite an achievement!).<br />strongest point:  it touched the basic nerve of the two sides within all of us - the weak, little, immature, unrecognized, depressed part (the pauper) and the powerful, confident, brash, grandiose part we'd all like to be, perhaps at times are, or perhaps only aspire to be or daydream about being (the prince).  mark twain really shines the light on the differences between these two parts of us by having the two characters switch roles (a brilliant idea!), thereby letting us really EXPERIENCE the feelings associated with the other end of the pole...by juxtaposing these opposites. (you might even say he speaks of the manic-depressive within us all, the bi-polar.)<br />book's weak point in the year 2001:  way too much boring detail.  i think i'm accustomed to a well-trimmed story that gets quickly to the point and doesn't dawdle in what feels like irrelevant detail.  but i suppose i have to remember that when mark twain was writing, there was no TV, not even radio, and his audiences were probably starved for such imaginitive detail.  because of the excess detail, i almost gave the book only four stars, but when taking the book's date into considering, i gave it five...	2001-07-19
US	48159920	R2M5WDONJQQV3I	0393008320	571248325	The Small Room (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	4	7	8	N	N	steering toward the bigger questions, but not on the money	this book, through its excellent plot and characters, opened up a lot of bigger questions, such as, what do we live for?, why do we strive for excellence?, what is the purpose of learning?, what are relationships about?, what does it mean to be a teacher, a friend, a therapist, a partner?<br />the fact that this book even pointed toward these questions is seriously in its favor, and for that i gave it four stars.  the book, however, had some serious drawbacks.<br />weak points:  often the questions, these vitally important questions, were not asked so clearly, as there was often a shroud of vagueness around them.  no surprise, the characters asking these questions almost ALWAYS were drinking, or even drinking heavily, when doing the asking and exploring.  they struck me as mostly numb people, and could only access life's seriousness when loosened up by alcohol.  even with alcohol as sarton's ally, she never really uses her characters to tackle these questions at any sustained depth, and as such, the deeper answers are only hinted at and lurk in the shadows.  for this reason, the book drags on, and often mires in questions of morality.  and none of the relationships in the book are really founded on bedrock; even with the couple that fights throughout the book and &quot;makes up&quot; at the end, their reconciliation, presented as permanent, just comes across as temporary, because neither partner has ever really accessed the deepest parts of their beings.  their reconciliation, which sarton presents as profound, comes across more as shallow, created for the sake of keeping the reader happy (or numb, in the dark), very hollywood.  and while the main character is sympathetic, much of what i find appealing in her is based on her instinct, and not in any increasing consciousness on her part.  she stills comes across as an underconfident wet noodle, even by the end of the book, despite the powerful roles she has taken on, or should i say, fallen into.<br />  all this said, the book was tightly written, very believable, and gave me a view into a very realistic world...but a shallow yet pseudo-deep one that i'm not particularly interested in entering...but which i think may sarton still is.  i think she feels this world she's created IS in fact deep.  sadly, i think it's only as deep as she's capable of going.s said, the book was tightly written, very believable, and gave me a view into a very realistic world...but a shallow yet pseudo-deep one that i'm not particularly interested in entering...but which i think may sarton still is.  i think she feels this world she's created IS in fact deep.  sadly, i think it's only as deep as she's capable of going.	2001-07-18
US	48159920	R38OSHT497REMN	0915811618	198705555	Son Rise: The Miracle Continues	Books	2	20	53	N	N	love can cure; but love binds also...this is a CULT FAMILY	i was so excited to read this book, primarily because i wanted to see what Raun would write in his intro.  well, i wasn't really let down, because i pretty much expected him to write what he wrote, and i'll paraphrase:  &quot;my parents and my dad are the greatest, most loving people ever, i love them and will be extremely close to them always, i have ZERO criticisms of them, they are perfect, and now look at me, i am the perfect, happiest, most normal, most functioning, most well-adjusted 20 year old ever.  i play sports, have girlfriends, am in a co-ed fraternity, have friends, am intellectual, am in a top-flight college, get great grades...AND I AM UTTERLY BORING, NON-FREE-THINKING, AND AS ATTACHED TO MY PARENTS AS ONE COULD IMAGINE.&quot;<br />what strikes me after reading this book (and i suspected it strongly from reading son-rise) is that this family, led by the father Barry, is a self-promoting cult.  now granted, the message they offer is a wonderful one, and that's what primarily drew me to the book - as they prove, to me, beyond a reasonable doubt, that pure love and acceptance can cure the most disturbed person, such as their little autistic son, BUT!!!  But, that kid strikes me as an emotional neuter as an adult, and i BLAME his parents.  i think they have no right to have written about his life so explicitly, essentially making him into a child star, observing his behavior for the general public, talking about his problems and his successes, his first crushes on girls.  these are things, i SO STRONGLY THINK, that should be private, to truly allow a boy/man (really any person) to explore him or herself, and to share with the world what he or she wishes about him or herself.<br />i feel those parents trapped their little boy, and make it impossible for him to find any fault in them, and as such...he can never gain his wings and fly away...even if it's only to explore a little bit.  this family makes it seem like any form of anger is a crime, a bad thing, and that to choose anything other than happiness shows some error on one's own part.  thus, to feel angry and to be anything other than happy would be betraying the cult.<br />you know, my parents may not have been as &quot;loving&quot; as Raun's, but they didn't also publicly flaunt me to the world, and for that i thank them.  and i strongly suspect that father flaunted his son in front of the world...as a odd and unconscious message to his own parents...due to his own unresolved issues (anger!!!) with them.<br />i just don't buy the whole message.and that to choose anything other than happiness shows some error on one's own part.  thus, to feel angry and to be anything other than happy would be betraying the cult.<br />you know, my parents may not have been as &quot;loving&quot; as Raun's, but they didn't also publicly flaunt me to the world, and for that i thank them.  and i strongly suspect that father flaunted his son in front of the world...as a odd and unconscious message to his own parents...due to his own unresolved issues (anger!!!) with them.<br />i just don't buy the whole message.	2001-07-04
US	48159920	R3AIFFQIIR8XOZ	0061003662	317792618	Curtain	Books	5	2	8	N	N	too brilliant not to give five stars to, but problems...	take everything i say after this sentence with the following thought in mind:  agathie christie is brilliant and talented, her work, for what it is, seamless.<br />problems i had with this book:  dragged along for a large portion of the book, many/most her clues were totally obscure, buried, often miniscule and even ambiguous, the characters were, as usual (it's my second christie book) shallow, the message was little or no redemptive value, and...<br />and:  i guess here's my big thing i think reading agatha christie...that she wants to confound and even abuse the reader, trick him or her into feeling stupid and frustrated and unintelligent, so that she can prove, in the end, just how brilliant and clever she is.  and what i think she's really unconsciously attempting to do is prove to her parents that she really is a good little girl, and clever, and smart, and i suspect she in some way was abused, neglected or overlooked in some way by her own parents...and she takes it out on her audience...in a just loving enough way to keep them hooked, in the same way, incidentally, that poirot abuses hastings...but keeps him hooked with a few crumbs of love.<br />for those of you who have read christie's autobiography, you'll know better than i do if i'm right or wrong, but i'll be reading it soon to find out for myself.  in the meantime, i'll bet money i'm right.	2001-07-04
US	48159920	R3F97Q6SFYMRU8	0465027288	178737594	Mockingbird Years: A Life In And Out Of Therapy	Books	3	11	15	N	N	beautiful writing...emotionally out of touch	a hyper-intellectual author with a flair for exquisite writing, writing a mostly dull memoir, with its most interesting part being her whopping idealization/idolization of her semi-famous therapist Leslie Farber (he symbolically = her parents), who seemed to have primarily his own best interests at heart as he performed her therapy.  She seemed to start to dabble with this thought by the end of the book, but didn't really run with it at all.  Although I found the book readable (primarily because I was interested in reading about the behind-the-scenes Farber), I found her life dull primarily because I felt she wasn't really accessing her deeper emotional issues, and was mostly just skimming across the emotional surface, and distracting the reader from that fact by her gorgeous, poetic writing...<br />aside:  that both her parents (and her brother) went to swarthmore came as a surprise to me, but shouldn't have.  I went to swarthmore too, and found it a highly emotionally uninspiring and dead place, with most of its residents and the institution itself troubled but masked behind a veneer of intellectual brilliance.	2001-07-04
US	48159920	R27PXLQDRRSDHR	0689835825	924940218	Shiloh (The Shiloh Quartet)	Books	4	1	6	N	N	powerful story, cotton candy ending	The story of an earnest and lovely little eleven year old boy who comes from a VERY REAL po' white trash West Virginia family and who befriends and protects an abused beagle.  It's a surprisingly powerful and universal story, as the little beagle really represents not only the boy's wounded inner self who he wished his shut-down parents would protect...but the wounded, neglected and abused inner selves within each of us.  The boy's love and protection of the beagle represents the parents we always wished we had had, and perhaps even thought (or still think) we had.<br />Book's weak point:  The author sacrificed potential emotional depth for the smiles and hugs of a happy ending.  I think a much more realistic ending would have been the father disregarding the feelings of his sensitive son and sending the dog back to the abusive owner, the mother not lifting a finger to protect her son's feelings, and the owner killing the dog as he promised all along.  Basically, I think the author didn't have the guts to do it, and thus be able to transmit a real message to the audience about how the world is - essentially how cruel and uncaring parents really can be.  The boy becoming aware of such things would have hurt (him and us), but would at least have been REAL and given us the base of potential from which to GROW and not just keep our heads in the sand, leading us further down the path of denial...and ultimately toward perpetuating the same patterns those parents did.  Only emotional honesty (as opposed to the fantasy ending of this book) will break such cycles.	2001-06-30
US	48159920	RJMNAN29KIUFC	0425169200	461985061	The ABC Murders	Books	5	0	10	N	N	five for brilliance, but had major problems...	this was my first Agatha Christie book, and she's undoubtedly brilliant, weaves together an exceedingly tight book which flies right along, and is not written for dummies by any means, in case you happen to think murder mysteries were for people who lacked intelligence...<br />but my problems:  shallow emotional depth in characters.  I know, you could argue that people don't read murder mysteries for emotional depth, but regardless, this book lacked it.  it's just junk food.  no substance.  well, though not entirely, because she does give out some insightful philosophy near the end, all about intuition versus experienced reasoning, etc., and about really understanding WHY a person does what he does, what really motivates someone.<br />my question:  why, deep inside Agatha Christie, would SHE write a book like this, and I'm convinced that she did because she was brilliant in the emotional sphere she ventured into in her life, but that she was so utterly blocked off from other parts of herself that she was unable to venture into them in her writing.  the result:  she wrote these kinds of books (well, I've only read one, but I'll assume they suffice for the rest) that looked at just a very SLIM part of the human experience...<br />also, I think psychologically this book is all unconsciously about the child overcoming the parent, which is a complete fantasy, the child in this case being Poirot and the parents being so many people - the deceptive murderer, the fancy and arrogant police.  it's a big ol' grandiose fantasy, and that, I think, is why so many people are drawn to it.  I admit, I liked it, and I felt pretty omnipotent reading it and identifying with Poirot...<br />one other point that irked me:  you know the real way this Poirot guy could have circumvented all the murders, and stopped them before even the first one happened?  (and this won't ruin the plot, because I thought of it at the very beginning of the book.)  he could have made a big publicity stunt about leaving the country and stating in the papers that he would not be working on the ABC murder case.  by declining to enter the contest he would have failed to take on the grandiose challenge, would have not engaged the murderer, and would have utterly foiled the murderer's plan, because it was clear from the beginning (EVEN TO POIROT!!!) that the murderer needed Poirot himself to be involved in the case to be able to DO the murders.<br />so my question:  why didn't Poirot back out?<br />answer:  because Agatha Christie was too grandiose to dare back out of such a challenge.  it's her unresolved grandiosity that's motivating her to write such books in the first place!!!t leaving the country and stating in the papers that he would not be working on the ABC murder case.  by declining to enter the contest he would have failed to take on the grandiose challenge, would have not engaged the murderer, and would have utterly foiled the murderer's plan, because it was clear from the beginning (EVEN TO POIROT!!!) that the murderer needed Poirot himself to be involved in the case to be able to DO the murders.<br />so my question:  why didn't Poirot back out?<br />answer:  because Agatha Christie was too grandiose to dare back out of such a challenge.  it's her unresolved grandiosity that's motivating her to write such books in the first place!!!	2001-06-30
US	48159920	RACS5NT4CI89G	0312265719	669854638	The Day I Went Missing: A True Story	Books	4	6	9	N	N	powerful and excellent, but only if you SKIM it!	i'll try to be brief with this review, as that was my major criticism of this book - miller went on and on and on and on, forcing me to skim major parts of the book, with no apparent loss on my part of content or story.<br />strongest point:  a terrifying, powerful story of how this woman, due to her vulnerability and emotional need, got SUCKED into a horrible con by her disturbed therapist, who maximally exploited the inevitable power dynamic in the therapeutic relationship for his own needs.<br />other strong points:  1) at times she's a very strong writer, and interesting.  2)  it was fascinating to watch her grow emotionally throughout the book, as she herself noticed, in spite of the viciousness of her therapist.  3) this book is a FASCINATING case study (and was recommended to me by a psychologist friend of mine).  4) this is a wonderful primer, (at least for THERAPISTS like myself - i'm one too...) on EXACTLY how NOT to do therapy, and to see how little things that many therapists do look if taken to the extreme...<br />weak points:  i didn't care two bits about all her successes as a writer.  i felt she was trying to talk herself up as a competent person by writing about that whole aspect of herself, and i felt it detracted strongly from the book, waded it down in a morass of dullness.  it could/should have been GREATLY condensed.  i see this book as a 130-150 page book, as that is how much i actually read.  i more or less skipped the whole middle section of the book, with no loss...<br />last interesting thought:  i am always suspect of someone who writes about such personal experience, to be shared with the general public.  my feeling is that the author, strangely not unlike her therapist, is trying to exploit herself and her own emotional story for purposes other than her own emotional growth.  granted, i'm glad she wrote the book, as her story helps me, but i still strongly question her use of her own personal life to further her &quot;writing career&quot;.ot;.	2001-06-23
US	48159920	R1CWY211O6HW22	0879052546	35276706	Tent Life in Siberia	Books	4	22	22	N	N	surprisingly modern, and full of interesting details	i picked this book up from a homeless bookseller in manhattan for a dollar, figuring it might be worth a try.  and it was - i read the whole thing!<br />it's major pluses:  it's written in a surprisingly modern style.  i've read other travelogues of the time period, like melville's omoo and typee and others, and this one was FAR better.  perhaps it's that the author is not pompous or trying too hard to be &quot;literary.&quot;  he tries a little bit, but mostly he just sticks to the facts and tells the story.  and the story on its own is interesting enough - travelling all around eastern siberia with wandering natives on dogsleds and reindeer sleds, living in yurts and eating funky foods, starving at times, camping under snowdrifts at fifty below zero, and mostly just observing and interacting with native peoples who (i have a strange feelings) may not even exist any more.  and all this set in the backdrop of such an interesting time period in our history - just after the U.S. Civil War.<br />other point of food for thought:  the guy did his travels at AGE TWENTY!!!, and wrote and published the entire book by age 25!  this strikes me as quite odd, because his whole style is...so mature...and intellectual.  you'd think you're reading a book by a forty year old (at least).  and to this that seven years before he travelled to siberia...he was just thirteen.<br />anyway, all in all a good and interesting book, good in a way for light historical reading, but nothing to shock your boots off...	2001-06-23
US	48159920	R26Q8TBLPGFX6O	0394750594	162211486	Sanford Meisner on Acting	Books	2	12	32	N	N	a sadist teaching people how to not live	i couldn't finish this book.  meisner's negative energy just got to me.  now, i'll grant you, he's probably a great acting teacher, perhaps the best, but what is he really teaching people how to do?  he says it's how to become deeply vulnerable, to really get to their core emotional stuff...but for what purpose?  i just got a really bad feeling about this guy's energy, the feeling that he's a disturbed person acting out his own childhood traumas on his pupils, over whom he wields a huge amount of power through his authority.i thought to myself while reading this that if meisner is the best (and i wouldn't doubt that he is), i never want to become an actor.i'd rather just live my life...and when i do get to my emotional core issues, it's not to exploit them for better acting, but for my own personal growth...as a person.	2001-06-16
US	48159920	R1KYTWYUC4F1SP	0694518549	70297810	Stop Being Mean to Yourself	Books	2	8	12	N	N	a travelogue disguised as self-help	let's be honest, it's really a travelogue.  i couldn't quite figure out how this book related to not being mean to yourself, and i felt melody beattie, in creating this book, really just wanted a forum to talk herself up as a world traveler, a real renaissance guru.<br />as a travelogue i felt it was second rate, with a lot of flat drama, cutesy scenes, and emotionally shallow characters - all of which beattie somehow tries to tie together and build up into this profound statement of life and philosophy.  well, i just don't think it cuts the mustard.  it came across less as profound to me than just silly and immature and grandiose.<br />i do not recommend becoming codependent with this book.	2001-06-16
US	48159920	R2WPJVVBRRGM1M	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	1	3	17	N	N	typical boring new-age writing	i couldn't get into this book, much less finish it, and take my word, i love to read, and read widely on just about anything.<br />i just found the style annoying and dull, the plot flat, the characters emotionless.<br />my recommendation for this book - tie some stones to it and fling it in the river.	2001-06-16
US	48159920	R1UTGFU3D2SWET	0380712520	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned	Books	4	5	9	N	N	cotton candy is good...at times	yeah, this is junk food, but let's not pretend it's anything else.  you don't pick up a book like this with the real intention of &quot;getting to the bottom of the facts and the truth,&quot; and if you do, then you &quot;don't know much about choosing books.&quot;  i feel this author is too conservative for me...as i come at this from a more politically radical perspective, where i find he smoothes over the issues and gives silly little reasons for major happenings.<br />but all that said, he's spun some good cotton candy, and i'm eating it...in moderation (but don't eat too much at once or you'll throw up!).	2001-04-21
US	48159920	R1Z0IP75NH7TYU	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	1	3	14	N	N	sexual abuse is not romance	for starters, I didn't finish this book, if you could call it a book.  it read like an upscale version of something from penthouse letters.  it was thinly disguised pornography, and trying to pretend to be literary.  also, it struck me that the seduction of the boy by the woman (that boy did not seduce her, that much I know!, he was just a child), was not presented in a way that I felt would have made it genuinely good fiction, or non-fiction for that matter.  what really irked me was that it was presented in a titillating fashion, all about her grabbing his @#$%, etc., which I felt was entirely unnecessary, and in fact, led the reader quite astray.<br />I felt the author had some need of his own to present child sexual abuse in a light that made it look not disturbing, and  while many adolescent boys have or have had fantasies of sexual interactions with full-grown women, by no means would or could or does ANYTHING positive come about in the long run from their fantasies being fulfilled by becoming reality.  it just messes children and adolescents up...<br />so as far as I'm concerned, any book that makes sexual abuse of a child (let's call it by its true name) titillating or racy or exciting for an audience gets only one star in my book.  I wish I could give it &quot;no stars&quot;...	2001-04-19
US	48159920	R2SBPMN546LDBJ	1880684187	879757394	Biography of a Runaway Slave, Revised Edition	Books	4	2	6	N	N	a worthy read, some dull parts	some of this book was fascinating...to me.  i found the old man's recollections of so many aspects of long-past cuba's rural life just gripping, but even moreso, to have it told, more or less, in his words, just added a special dimension that no other type of book could really create.  i felt like i was being led on a journey by a character of such realness that no true &quot;biographer&quot; or fiction writer could approximate it.<br />particularly good parts:  his descriptions of the cruelty of cuban slavery, of the cruelty of whites, of his ideas about sex, about certain aspects of the war for independence<br />now for the bad stuff:  some of it, i must admit, just dragged.  he was a religious/mystical guy, and all his descriptions of the old religions, though certainly realistic and valid, were just boring to me, and i started skimming.  also, in part this book was the recollections of a 105 year old man, and so, while i give such an old man credit for being able to tell a good story (or perhaps the credit is due to the editor), it still reads at point like...an old man's story, and not an old man who has a true gift for story-telling.  as for plot, forget it.  suspense...think again.  drama...no.  just the facts, and thank god they're interesting enough on their own.	2001-04-19
US	48159920	R2M38C1HSPKV5I	0140179836	951224713	The Liars' Club: A Memoir	Books	2	5	13	N	N	i won't lie to you	bo-ring.  i just didn't like the book.  granted, some of the subject matter was interesting, as is true in almost every book, but there was something this particular one i found extremely dull.  it never went below the surface, and it feels to me that although she's talking about all this deep and profound stuff - family chaos, alcoholism, mental illness - she doesn't really have much perspective on it, and is still herself deeply rooted in her own family system (look at the people she dedicates the book to!).  i've found SO MANY better books than this one - what a bore!	2001-04-16
US	48159920	R35UL4S73AG1AN	0374522693	7966308	For Your Own Good: Hidden Cruelty in Child-Rearing and the Roots of Violence	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Alice Miller Explicates Hitler, But Not Herself	This is the classic book in which Alice Miller explicates Adolf Hitler and thereby disproves that human behavior can be innately evil.  She recognizes correctly that if she can prove that the atrocious behavior of the most vicious monster of the twentieth century was motivated by his own unresolved childhood trauma, then she will also prove that so too is everyone else's atrocious behavior.  Through the combination of her audacity, emotional insight, and analytic scholarly ability she most certainly succeeds, but the problem is, she still hasn't figured out how to explicate herself.<br /><br />Alice Miller's psyche is loaded with unresolved psychological trauma.  If it were not, she wouldn't have had the near-psychotic breakdown she did in the late 1980s or early 1990s when she entered primal therapy with an extremely manipulative therapist (despite having railed against manipulative, pedagogical forms of parenting and therapy years earlier in For Your Own Good).<br /><br />I quote from a 1995 interview, in which she refers to the eruption of her own unresolved trauma:  \\"At the end of these three weeks [of intensive therapy] my feelings were in a turmoil, so that I could not find sleep, that for the first time in my life I thought of suicide, and had anxiety verging on the psychotic.  I was already fearful of this therapy that robbed my organism of sleep, but I could nowhere escape it.\\"<br /><br />And two years after that she accepted that she would always remain at least partially subjugated to her unresolved trauma.  I quote the afterward of the 1997 edition of The Drama Of The Gifted Child:  \\"I spent a long time looking for a total exploration of my childhood history.  Now I see that this was hubris\\" [her italics].<br /><br />By labeling her desire to know herself fully as \\"hubris,\\" she sends a message to everyone that it is impossible to fully heal.  How wrong she is!<br /><br />Yet when she wrote For Your Own Good, Alice Miller believed consciously that she already was fully healed.  The only cracks in her armor were subtle.  Yet like Hitler - and everyone who remains at least partially unconscious - she defended against them.  In the preface to the book's original edition she went so far as to intone the blessings of her own son to patch up her denial.<br /><br />Page xvii:  \\"Countless conversations with my son, Martin Miller, played an equally important role in this learning process.  Again and again, he forced me to become aware of my unconscious compulsions, internalized during childhood and stemming from the upbringing common to my generation.  His full, clear account of his experiences is partially responsibly for my own liberation from the compulsions, a liberation that could be achieved only after I had developed an ear for the sophisticated and minute nuances of the pedagogical approach.  Before writing down many of the ideas developed here, I discussed them thoroughly with my son.\\"<br /><br />Can Alice Miller, perhaps the greatest writer of her generation to hear the child's truth behind his manifested behavior, truly not even consider the possibility that her own son might have some motive to protect his mother?<br /><br />Although Alice Miller is highly critical of pathological parents in theory, she fails to realize that in practice they remain the norm.  By focusing on the extremes of pathological parenting she lets most parents, however pathological they remain, off the hook.  But like all theorists who defend their own false selves, her primary motive is to let herself off the hook.<br /><br />She tacitly gives her approval to all parents who wish to procreate, yet cannot understand how inconsistent this is with her deepest message.  Again, she does this because she has not yet owned up to her own mistakes...because she has not yet owned up to what was done to her by her own parents.  And until she digs into the roots of this, and can bear to face and resolve the wounded Hitler within her - as we all mustdo if we wish to be true to ourselves - her vision will remain partially blocked and her message partially rotten.<br /><br />For this bit of wisdom I have the best of Alice Miller to thank.her - as we all must do if we wish to be true to ourselves - her vision will remain partially blocked and her message partially rotten.   <br /> <br />For this bit of wisdom I have the best of Alice Miller to thank.	2001-04-16
US	48159920	R3IU87PAFL7ML4	0898624371	60087581	One Couple, Four Realities: Multiple Perspectives on Couple Therapy	Books	3	0	4	N	N	interesting concept...got dull at times...+ framo was cruel	the concept is interesting. even though they say it's just demonstration interviews, it's really a therapy contest...to see who's the best...a shrink-off. you know all the therapists' goal was to each do the best and get the prize, the kudos from the couple, who actually later do grade them, just like i'm grading this book here, though they give them a score between one and ten.<br /><br />for the competitor in all of us, this book calls out.<br /><br />nevertheless, there was tons of wooden gunk in between the good stuff, tons of dull and essentially meaningless essays about theory and practice, etc, and that was worth skipping over or skimming... you decide.<br /><br />and last but not at all least: that guy Framo was a big jerk. he so obviously bulled the woman in the couple into \\"opening up\\" and becoming vulnerable in front of her family, which is exactly what she didn't want to do (good instinct on her part), and he kept promising her he'd support her, which is exactly what he! DIDN'T DO! he was exceedingly manipulative with her, and that had to be the most manipulative transcript of a therapy session i'd ever read. i mean, this guy's a master, and he totally disguises his own motives. also, he completely protected the parents at the expense of the daughter (though he was slippery enough about it to not make it look so), and ultimately, i believe, acted not at all in her best interest, and may have damaged her worse than she knew. and on top of all that, he did it in such a slimy way that she THANKED HIM PROFUSELY FOR IT AFTERWARDS!!! it was only six YEARS later that she realized...just a little bit...how far he'd gone in manipulating her...but she was still thanking him. he messed with her head in a big way.<br /><br />and by the way, the editors of the book \\"just play neutral\\" when it comes to Framo's behavior. this is sick stuff. but you read it and decide.	2001-04-08
US	48159920	R2MAWBW92KIZKS	055327788X	761486195	The Boat Who Wouldn't Float	Books	4	3	5	N	N	vintage mowat, but shows more about his darker character...	this was a beautiful book about a time and a place and a world about which i knew little, and as usual farley mowat does his brilliant job of bringing it to life in full radiance, and of personifying the non-human in a unique and gripping way.<br />weak points:  this book, more than the others i previously read by him, showed more about the real character of farley mowat, and in this book he struck me as a very unhappy man, both depressed and even alcoholic.  i'm glad to have read it however, as it not only gives me insight into him as the author of this book, but into the underlying character of the author who wrote his other wonderful, and less dark, books.<br />also, honestly, this wasn't a particularly deep book.  it sort of &quot;appears&quot; to be deep, but like his boat, sorta skims across the surface.	2001-03-24
US	48159920	R2ZCPREM4OGB1J	0823659852	269270551	Schizoid Phenomena, Object-Relations and the Self	Books	2	22	37	N	N	some interesting stuff, but wordy would be an understatement	Strong points:  THIS is fascinating stuff about schizoid personalities (emotionally detached, withdrawn personalities), and though Guntrip doesn't always say so, I think in varying degrees it's relevant to pretty much everyone I know...in terms of people's emotions being split off from their conscious selves (thus the schism).  also:  the occasional chunk of strong case material.<br />WEAK POINTS:  are you willing to wade through hundreds of pages of literal word-noise and jargon to get his underlying points, which he seems to make over and over and over and over and over again in a million slightly different ways?<br />if you're the type of person who has trouble skimming and feels obligated to read every word, I would recommend this book as a good remedy for insomnia.	2001-03-24
US	48159920	R3AMKWQ5WJMTW7	0316586897	422149738	The World of Farley Mowat: A Selection from His Works	Books	5	5	7	N	N	an excellent selection, worth reading	farley mowat is special, no doubt about it:  a wonderful way with words, just weaves them together, and his subjects are fascinating, intense, powerful, often quite humorous, and his looks into the human and natural world are worth sharing.  if you like farley mowat, and have read anything by him before, or even not, this is a good sample selection of a great and multi-talented writer.	2001-03-24
US	48159920	R2FL04NMQHDQM4	0425102416	602354563	Across Five Aprils	Books	4	6	8	N	N	powerful book...weak at the end	one of the best novels i've yet read on the civil war, and it really does an excellent job of personalizing war, and showing how this war in particular affected a vulnerable american family.  the main character is sympathetic, as are his parents and brothers and sister, and their relationships are touching and believable.  the interactions with the townfolk are powerful as well, and this book gives a real slice of life into a time and place that just doesn't exist anymore.  i wasn't surprised when the author wrote that her inspiration for the novel came almost directly from stories her grandfather told of his actual experiences as a boy who lived during the civil war - this book was too personal, too detailed, too heartfelt, and too simply real to just have been &quot;made up&quot; from her imagination...it just had that ring of truth that made it special.<br />book's major weakness:  i felt that in the last quarter of the book or so the author just lost her feel for the characters, or perhaps herself just wanted to finish the book.  it started turning into a history lesson.  the first three-quarters were wonderful because she DIDN'T do just that, and really let the lives of the characters carry the book and let the battles and history be the backdrop.  that last quarter, though, god, it just got dull.  sometimes for pages on end there was nothing about a single LIVING character in the book, and just paragraph after paragraph about lincoln and this general and that general and supply lines and politics.  it was like...SHUT UP, I WANT TO READ A NOVEL, NOT A TEXTBOOK!<br />that said, i'd still recommend the book highly.  it's one of those books that puts a real human feel on a war, and thereby gives me a point of reference when i hear or read further on the civil war.  (also, it made me cry a few times, and any book that does that earns some strong points...)	2001-03-17
US	48159920	R12HR7FSLY5WXQ	7119015710	762535427	A Taoist Classic: The Book of Lao Zi	Books	4	4	4	N	N	quite a book!  this version is both strong and weak	this was the first version of the tao te ching i came across, and i bought it in china in 1994.  it took me a while to make any sense of what lao zi was saying, and now i think it makes a little more sense to me...  since then, i've gotten other translations of this book and have something to compare it to.<br />i've kept this version because i felt it was a pretty raw translation, and not overly interpretive or flowery, which can be good.  i feel, however, that the English of the author was not too hot and at times comes across as painfully wooden.  the poems themselves, however, retain their beauty and power, and sometimes i wonder if the poor English of the author might not be an advantage...<br />as for the author's explanatory writings about the poems, my lord, it's not even worth reading.  it's like he's written a bad mini-book report on each poem, and when tries to make sense of what the poems are about, he doesn't convince me that he gets the point of it at all.  i'd hate to sit in a classroom with him!  and i have a distinct feeling lao zi would also!	2001-03-11
US	48159920	R1RZIW625AB93O	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	3	7	N	N	a good read...about a sick world	the good points:  well-written book, clear and good to follow, a sympathetic main character, an engrossing view into a world about which i previously knew nothing, and some spicy and unique characters...<br />the bad points:  a whole book about emotionally shallow people in almost entirely duplicitous relationships, everybody's got something up their sleeves, and as for the women, especially the young ones, they're trapped in their generally miserable lives...  now of course, it could be argued that this doesn't make the book itself bad per se, because it's just what the book's about, but i could also argue, why would someone (even me, much less the writer), be so engrossed in a world that's hardly one iota devoted to true honesty and open, real and equal communication?  now granted, the main character's goal throughout the entire book was to be honest with and accepted and loved and cherished (and supported) by a rich businessman (essentially an emotional stand-in for her idealized father, who abandoned her and sold her into slavery, a vein which never gets explored), but my take on that is - if that's the whole purpose of a person's life, to be loved by another, then YUCK!<br />what a shallow goal! (and incidentally, how &quot;modern&quot; and &quot;middle-class American&quot; is that goal?! - &quot;true love&quot; and &quot;romance&quot;!!)  what about deep inner exploration, being true to ourselves, having honest friendships not based on duplicity and power and money?<br />i guess i just question why an author chooses to write such a stellar book about such an emotionally shallow topic...unless at some level that's where he himself is at...	2001-03-11
US	48159920	RO1RXLLD86OUW	0802130127	177081917	The 120 Days of Sodom and Other Writings	Books	1	8	28	N	N	worse than nasty + perverse...it's boring + poorly-written	don't even waste your time trying to read this one. i always thought...&quot;the marquis de sade...oh no, it's a great writer who writes about horrible subjects.&quot;  well, i was half right...his subject matter is horrible and nasty, but it's unreadable.  his ability as a story-teller is perhaps only slightly better than his mental health.<br />it's bad writing by a sick guy.  i think he would even have trouble getting hired to write for dirty porn mags...	2001-03-11
US	48159920	RU7GYJ708YYTI	0842359249	200414863	The Strong-Willed Child	Books	1	27	55	N	N	this guy is vicious	says dr. dobson (i paraphrase only slightly): &quot;don't beat your child with your hand...beat him with a small object used only for the purpose, like a belt or stick.&quot;<br />how about don't beat your child at all?<br />dr. dobson does what so many &quot;specialists&quot; in the field do - they blame the children for causing the parents problems, rather than seeing that in 99.9% of the cases it's the parents who, through their own unresolved issues and traumas from their own disturbed childhoods, create these little &quot;problem&quot; kids...these &quot;strong-willed&quot; little &quot;monsters&quot;.  and then he goes on to support the parents in their &quot;difficult but necessary&quot; journey to discipline and socialize their &quot;troubled&quot; children.<br />never once does he suggest that the parents themselves go to therapy, work out their own deep issues, rather, he just suggests, using all his power as a &quot;specialist&quot;, that parents continue to act out their own long-repressed inner shame and self-hatred on their defenseless children.<br />for whom would i recommend this book:  for no one.<br />that this book exists, and that so many people read it...and believe it...scares me...but doesn't surprise me.	2001-03-03
US	48159920	RN75QTWURFPV	0226327639	478067272	Helen Keller: A Life	Books	5	11	12	N	N	does helen keller justice more than keller's own writings	I found this an excellent biography...and it surprised me how much more disturbed I was by the life of Helen Keller and by her relationships with others, particularly Annie Sullivan, than I was before reading this book.  I think anyone who previously thought Helen Keller was a happy and joyous woman would realize how mistaken that idea is.  although the reality of her triumph over hardship can never be diminished, and for that she will always be a model of inspiration, she strikes me as having been an often extremely sad, emotionally shut down and isolated woman...but mostly someone who lived behind a major false front and &quot;put on a happy face&quot; to survive.  strong points:  very well researched, clearly and carefully written, often insightful, not shying away from taboo topics (sexuality, alcoholism, child abuse), all in all quite readable<br />a quick gripe:  I feel Herrmann could have been more interpretive about the relationship between Helen and Annie.  while reading the book I often found myself feeling that Helen and Annie's relationship (and Helen herself) was far more disturbed - unbalanced - than even Herrmann was concluding.	2001-02-21
US	48159920	R3ODXX0D1FIOEO	0440410010	909727634	Zia	Books	3	5	8	N	N	some pluses, some minuses	this book, sadly, just doesn't compare to &quot;island of the blue dolphins&quot;.  its plot is not nearly so intense, and the main character, zia, just doesn't have as full or deep a personality as karana did...  in fact, scott o'dell strikes me as a sort of one-trick pony with these two books, because zia and karana had almost the same personality (just as mando and karana's brother did), like he didn't really know the difference between the two sets of characters and just recreated the old ones in a new book in new characters' skins.  and the relationship between the pairs of brothers and sisters were virtually identical between the two books, so it was kind of overkill to read the second book...<br />also, as he gave historical information about karana's true life at the end of the first book, the plot and fictional history of this book completely contradicts what actually happened, and for me that took the wind out of this book's sails.<br />last gripe:  characters lack much emotion...<br />book's strong points:  all that said, o'dell paints a full, rich portrait of life in 19th century southern california, with the missions and padres and police and indians and all, and even though his characters are virtual carbon copies of those from the previous book, they still ARE interesting and spunky and worth reading about.  so, for whatever o'dell's flaws, i still feel he's a strong writer with a good message.	2001-02-21
US	48159920	R17P67TKRN6Q4B	0553213873	614661659	The Story of My Life (Bantam Classic)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	has its limitations	frankly, kind of dull.  if this were the only book by or about helen keller, i would rate it higher, because she is fascinating as a subject for my imagination, but when this book is taken within the context of her other more insightful and revealing works (written later, when she was more mature, not 22) and of Herrmann's fuller, richer biography on her, this book pales.<br />also, it reads at times like a list of her intellectual achievements, almost like she's out to prove to the world just how brilliant and &quot;super-normal&quot; a person with her disabilities can be.  i write this not to belittle her achievements, which are phenomenal, but after a while i just wish she'd talk about something different...deeper...more emotionally real.  thank god for herrmann's biography on her!	2001-02-07
US	48159920	R1G5V0AG9DWJT9	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	3	0	0	N	N	good in some points, fuzzy in others	I'm left feeling like I've only been told part of her story, and while the part she told was often quite good, the part I feel the book lacks strikes me as even more important, and I feel she got fuzzy when she approached it<br />Good points:  interesting, witty, clear portrayal of life inside a mental institution and inside the head of a mental patient; she very clearly delineates the different characters, each has an obvious and unique personality and their interactions are interesting; also, shows how vicious and unhealthy and non-restorative mental health professionals and overall life on a ward can be<br />Bad points:  I felt the one character whose character was NOT nearly so well explained as the others or explored from a wide perspective was hers; it's like, she left that to all the diagnosing and hospital note pages, but she never seems to really hit on the core of who she is in the same way she characterizes everybody else.  Also, I don't know why she didn't get into it, but she barely even touches upon her family issues, it's like, they're all but non-characters, and I think that's a major minus for the book.<br />Along these lines, by calling the book \\"Girl, Interrupted\\" and saying her \\"musical\\" life was interrupted at eighteen, it implies her life (which at that point was her family life) was okay and that she was really the victim of the mental health field.  Well, I would agree that she was the victim of the mental health field, but I would say they were actually the secondary victimizers - the real ones were her family, and by her not exploring that aspect in the slightest she simply lets them off the hook, and confuses the reader as to who's primarily at fault.  Even a few clear paragraphs or pages of scenarios about the sick truth of her family (and don't tell me they're not!) would have improved this book immensely.<br />Finally:  it strikes me that lacking the real oomph to explore her family issues and out them, kaysen turns the tone to a sort of semi-comedy, almost like she's making another futile protest against unlistening nurses and doctors.of semi-comedy, almost like she's making another futile protest against unlistening nurses and doctors.	2001-02-02
US	48159920	R4IY09AFAW84H	0679732438	594818359	One Day of Life	Books	3	4	13	N	N	strong subject matter, weak book	it's hard to criticize this book because the subject matter is so intense, so real, so awful.  it presents about the worst side of human nature - the evil of cruel, authoritarian people systematically terrorizing all but helpless, innocent rural farmers who want nothing more than to be left alone...  for these points, for its authenticity, this book has value.<br />its weak points:  this book was all over the map.  one minute it was concrete and readable, the next it was in a dream world, vague and almost incomprehensible, and i know it could be argued that this parallels the characters' inner states, but i felt the writer didn't pull off the task.  what i felt happened, in effect, was that the book became unreadable, not cohesive, and ended up being sort of artsy-fartsy, lacking the power it might have otherwise had.  also, i felt that the translation was iffy... often i had to re-read lines to figure out their meaning due to the poor grammatical style of the translator...missing commas, etc.<br />also, the author GREATLY overused the tool of switching points of view and time frame to tell the story.  if it had been handled well it might have made a good artistic effect...instead it was just annoying and hard to follow.<br />last gripe, and i suspect few will agree with me here, but so be it:  i felt the story had little in it that was redemptive beyond just telling a (true) horror story.  aside from &quot;we must fight for our rights,&quot; and &quot;life doesn't mean much unless we're willing to die for our rights,&quot; i didn't find much of a spiritual message within.  that said, the book was chilling nonetheless...disturbing...a good book to provoke nightmares.	2001-02-02
US	48159920	R1XRB23ANSATBQ	0804115761	785795777	A Thousand Acres	Books	3	1	7	N	N	a worthy skim	i didn't like it much - thought it was pretty flat and long and unspecial - a worthy skim.  although i thought jane smiley could write well, i felt the whole subject was mediocre and kind of negative - all the characters cheating and lying and double-crossing each other and never being honest...<br />it's like, why would a writer put out such energy to create a quality book about people who just &quot;live life&quot;, and are on nothing resembling a spiritual journey?  Very little redemptive about the book.  i guess that's where jane smiley's at on some level...kinda stuck.	2001-01-27
US	48159920	R195GBMQJFJ8ME	0374525439	759324730	Thou Shalt Not Be Aware: Society's Betrayal of the Child	Books	4	59	66	N	N	Wonderful, But Contradictory	Thou Shalt Not Be Aware is one of the finest theoretical books demonstrating how parents betray their children and how devastating this is for the child.  Yet Alice Miller, wonderful writer that she is, cannot fully absorb the significance of her own message.  This denial pervades her writing and weakens her book's impact.<br /><br />She spends over three hundred pages of Thou Shalt Not Be Aware showing how parents damage their children, yet she refuses to hold parents accountable.  (Page 58:  \\"[People cannot] grasp that I blame neither children nor parents.\\")  In effect, she, one of the 20th century's greatest trumpeters for the child's rights, herself creates a theory which abandons the full truth of the child.  Shying away from the strength of her message, she compromises as best she can, turns vague, and blames society instead.  Thus, the subtitle of the book:  \\"Society's Betrayal Of The Child.\\"<br /><br />It is not society that primarily betrays children.  It really is parents.  Yet Alice Miller, a parent of two children herself and a woman who never came close to processing her own unresolved grief from her own childhood - stemming from maltreatment by her own parents, not society - cannot accept that.  It is too painful.<br /><br />Thus it comes as no great surprise that years after writing this book, when she herself entered deep therapy to resolve her childhood traumas once and for all, her true past horrors surfaced and she suffered a near-psychotic breakdown.  A 1995 interview says it all:  \\"At the end of these three weeks my feelings were in a turmoil, so that I could not find sleep, that for the first time in my life I thought of suicide, and had anxiety verging on the psychotic.  I was already fearful of this therapy that robbed my organism of sleep, but I could nowhere escape it.\\"<br /><br />Yet between the time of undergoing this \\"therapy\\" and giving this interview, she touted her therapist, J. Konrad Stettbacher, as a brilliant theorist and discoverer of a \\"remarkably effective therapy method,\\" thus providing him with thousands of referrals, until, that is, she realized correctly that he had been manipulative and destructive with her and she quickly removed all mention of him from later editions of her books...and publicly repudiated him on the internet.<br /><br />Yet 95% of Thou Shalt Not Be Aware remains an accurate roadmap and fuel station on the path toward enlightenment.  So much of Alice Miller is fully enlightened.  However, if you aspire to become more enlightened than she is, this book will be partially toxic to you.<br /><br />For instance, she masterfully exposes Freud's 1897 abandonment of the truth of his patients' sexual abuse histories, yet out of guilt for betraying him and loyalty to loving him (i.e. the omnipotent parent) anyway, she dedicates this book's first edition to...him.<br /><br />And she spends countless pages beautifully - though not succinctly, as this book does ramble - deconstructing Freud's ludicrous drive theory to expose its basic flaws.  But then, on page 51, she writes this:  \\"When I wrote The Drama of the Gifted Child [her first and most famous book, which is anti-Freudian], I still believed my experiences as an analyst were compatible with Freud's drive theory...\\"  This is shocking, and shows how amazing insight and atrocious denial can co-exist in the same person's conscious mind.  This is Alice Miller in a nutshell.<br /><br />And then there is her intense anti-religiosity, and refusal to believe in God or support any form of therapy that does.  Yet in June of 2001, nearly twenty years after writing Thou Shalt Not Be Aware, she wrote a letter to Pope John Paul II in which she took on the tone of an enraptured, star-struck young girl begging yet another omnipotent parent figure to hear her point of view.  Had I not known beforehand that it was written by the ferocious and insightful Alice Miller I might not have believed it.<br /><br />I will quote a few lines of it here (and the full text is on her website):  \\"Open Letter to the Holy Father.  I take the liberty to write to You again...  ...I can't imagine that any other person in the world would have Your courage, Your credibility, as well as Your personal talent and God's grace to be able to speak up against an old tradition [of child abuse]...  If the Church continues to ignore the new scientific information and to stay silent about this issue in spite of the lessons of Jesus, who else can be asked to open the parents' eyes in order to prevent the blind escalation of violence.  I am sure that if my letters succeed to reach You personally You will not stay indifferent to the knowledge they are trying to pass on to you.  With my most profound respect, Alice Miller.\\"<br /><br />Yet she even predicts her own future capitulation in Thou Shalt Not Be Aware.  On page 209, she notes how often \\"individual analysts shrink in later life from their own findings and return to earlier ways of thinking they had already left behind.\\"  As she herself points out consistently, traumas that are not fully exhumed and resolved always find a way to manifest pathologically.<br /><br />Although part of Alice Miller speaks from her healed side, she continues to behave like the traumatized child some part of her remains.  On one hand she speaks the truth more forcefully and honestly than almost anyone else - and as such has legitimately inspired millions through her written word.  Yet at the same time she defends parts of her parents' pathologies at all costs.  This is her unconscious psychic defense against having another breakdown.  Thus, when reading her, we must be aware of her limits.  If you are not, then...thou too shalt also not be aware.few lines of it here (and the full text is on her website):  \\"Open Letter to the Holy Father.  I take the liberty to write to You again...   ...I can't imagine that any other person in the world would have Your courage, Your credibility, as well as Your personal talent and God's grace to be able to speak up against an old tradition [of child abuse]...  If the Church continues to ignore the new scientific information and to stay silent about this issue in spite of the lessons of Jesus, who else can be asked to open the parents' eyes in order to prevent the blind escalation of violence.  I am sure that if my letters succeed to reach You personally You will not stay indifferent to the knowledge they are trying to pass on to you.  With my most profound respect, Alice Miller.\\" <br /> <br />Yet she even predicts her own future capitulation in Thou Shalt Not Be Aware.  On page 209, she notes how often \\"individual analysts shrink in later life from their own findings and return to earlier ways of thinking they had already left behind.\\"  As she herself points out consistently, traumas that are not fully exhumed and resolved always find a way to manifest pathologically. <br /> <br />Although part of Alice Miller speaks from her healed side, she continues to behave like the traumatized child some part of her remains.  On one hand she speaks the truth more forcefully and honestly than almost anyone else - and as such has legitimately inspired millions through her written word.  Yet at the same time she defends parts of her parents' pathologies at all costs.  This is her unconscious psychic defense against having another breakdown.  Thus, when reading her, we must be aware of her limits.  If you are not, then...thou too shalt also not be aware.	2001-01-27
US	48159920	R2XRF5A62RYP5J	0394574745	270121541	All the Pretty Horses	Books	2	12	21	N	N	some good points, but overall not worth reading	the good points:  the story itself is interesting and moves along for the most part making the book readable, and it's gets into some interesting detail and perspective in terms of mexican landscape and culture and horses, and it's not bad for an adventure story, which is why i finished it.<br />the bad points:  the book is almost entirely emotionally shut-down (written at about the emotional level of a fifteen year old, and not a very mature one at that), it totally idealizes machismo (glorifies being emotionally detached and tough), gives no reason as to why the two main american boy characters are close aside from some &quot;mysterious&quot; bond of loyalty which seems not to grow or change throughout the book - and their occasional philosophizing is trite and silly<br />further bad points:  the main character grows to comically mythic proportions by the end of the book, almost as if he's become immortal and cannot be killed by the silly and foolish mexicans - on their own turf no less!, which to me is not only unrealistically pro-american but idealizes the myth of the invincibility of youth, which is dangerous...<br />other trivial points that annoyed me:  author's use of stylized grammar shifted throughout the book.  for example, in the beginning ten pages in the prose (not the dialogue) he spelled the word &quot;didn't&quot; as follows - &quot;didn't&quot; - but then after that point, and for the rest of the book, spelled it &quot;didnt&quot;, with no apostrophe.  annoying!  and also, i felt the author was a show-off and a tease with his use of spanish dialogue.  as i happen to speak spanish it was fine by me, but i find it annoying when authors gratuitously use foreign languages at length and do not translate, leaving the reader potentially out in the wind...	2001-01-20
US	48159920	R1MKOO055D3FB6	0465021182	14133951	Every Day Gets a Little Closer: A Twice-Told Therapy	Books	3	36	39	N	N	not the best yalom has to offer...	this was his book i was most excited to read, and while i think the concept is great, i don't think it really worked.  the accounts were often long-winded and dull, and when there were little gems within that made it worth wading through, they were often hidden amidst pages of muck.  i still think the idea behind the book is strong and could work, however, and i admire yalom for trying, but at the same time i wonder if it's not somewhat unethical to reveal so much to a patient about the therapist's feelings, and also to give her free therapy in exchange for writing for him - like, is it a conflict of interest on his part, and therefore countertherapeutic?  also, the book doesn't really say if she got better in the long-term.  i'm not so sure...  still glad i read the book, but didn't honestly feel i got too much out of it.  many of his other books are head and shoulders above this one...	2001-01-10
US	48159920	R2C6N4ZHYTRBPQ	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	4	3	4	N	N	has some gaps, but excellent if you have imagination!	no wonder the author wrote this - it's every person's fear at some level, to be utterly abandoned and isolated...let alone on an island, for eighteen years.  o'dell doesn't get much into the emotional stuff, her feelings of loss or loneliness, which is where you need imagination as a reader, to fill in the gaps.  it feels to me like the ultimate story of loneliness and isolation, a really horrible story in a way, but the beauty comes in that karana doesn't give up, fends for herself, hunts, traps, even makes pretty clothes...and she makes do with what company she has - dogs, birds, otters.  (actually, not that odd of a story - i think there are lots of people in our towns and cities in the year 2001 who are that isolated...) but just imagine, being left alone on an island for eighteen years?  sounds like hell to me.  i really admire her for surviving and not giving up hope.  one question:  why did she give up so quickly on building a new canoe and paddling for the mainland after just one failure?  she had the capacity to make a good canoe, and she was strong and brave, right?  i mean, she spent like three years just trying to spear an octopus for fun, so to me it just doesn't make sense.	2001-01-10
US	48159920	RFW2EIKRSL69S	091585600X	333924409	Alcoholics Anonymous: The Story of How Many Thousands of Men and Women Have Recovered from Alcoholism	Books	2	6	19	N	N	good in the short-term, but a dangerous philosophy	My attitude toward this book has changed over the last few years.  I actually wrote a review some time back saying how much I loved this book and how wonderful I thought its philosophy was, but now I have my problems with it.  I think the main one is that it and the program it pushes is not geared for doing deeper inner work, the work that will really set a person free.  And not just that.  If you really follow the AA program by the letter of the word, which is exactly what this book recommends, then it goes directly against doing the deepest of inner work.  Perhaps this is actually a wise philosophy for many alcoholics and other deeply troubled people in the short-term, because the deep inner work can really throw people for a loop, bring out the truest insanity and horrors from within...but...but what is life unless we know our truest inner selves...and what is recovery unless we heal at our deepest levels?<br />I would be less likely to criticize this book if I thought AA was the only way to get sober, but I think no one who has really healed at their deepest levels - who has taken on the biggest demons - would remain addicted to alcohol, because alcoholism only serves the purpose of staying numb and shut down.  Although I have not drunk alcohol for a long time - and value this sobriety - I have come to realize just how un-sober life without alcohol can still be, and this book makes sobriety from alcohol look like an end in and of itself - a pinnacle of healing.  It isn't.<br />This book says &quot;turn it over to god.&quot;<br />I say:  &quot;go into your deepest traumas with a safe guide...and really attempt the possibility of healing.&quot;<br />This book says:  &quot;take a moral inventory.&quot;<br />I say:  &quot;scrap all the morality...take an emotional inventory, for that's where the real truth of our horrors lie...and the truth of our brightest beings.&quot;<br />This book says:  &quot;put your faith in a God, a higher power.&quot;<br />I say:  &quot;enter your deepest traumas, get help to resolve them, and then open up the possibility of putting true faith in yourself.&quot;<br />This book never questions what makes an alcoholic.  It's almost as if it's saying:  &quot;an alcoholic can neither be created nor destroyed.&quot;  For me, this is the flaw of AA recovery. Childhood traumas create alcoholics.  And healing these traumas with heal the need to become alcoholic.  This book says:  &quot;accept the fact that you always were and always will be an alcoholic.&quot;  It's actually an odd sort of terror philosophy that tells people they can never really heal, that they're crippled with a lifelong affliction.  I don't buy it...because it hasn't proven true for me.enter your deepest traumas, get help to resolve them, and then open up the possibility of putting true faith in yourself.&quot;<br />This book never questions what makes an alcoholic.  It's almost as if it's saying:  &quot;an alcoholic can neither be created nor destroyed.&quot;  For me, this is the flaw of AA recovery. Childhood traumas create alcoholics.  And healing these traumas with heal the need to become alcoholic.  This book says:  &quot;accept the fact that you always were and always will be an alcoholic.&quot;  It's actually an odd sort of terror philosophy that tells people they can never really heal, that they're crippled with a lifelong affliction.  I don't buy it...because it hasn't proven true for me.	2000-12-29
US	48159920	R17MTHHGMFX41C	0910034796	157579722	Courage to Change: One Day at a Time in Al-Anon II	Books	5	173	174	N	N	a beautiful, hopeful, well-written book	as a daily reader, i feel this is the best, and a step up from al-anon's also-great &quot;one day at a time&quot; reader from the sixties, the predecessor of &quot;the courage to change&quot;.  the philosophy is powerful yet simple, positive but not squishy at all, the readings are comprehensive (as is the index - and you can look up just about any emotion you happen to be feeling and find a strong reading on it), the quotations are excellent, there's no gender bias, there's no attacking the alcoholic, and it's gentle from start to finish - but firm throughout.<br />i would recommend this book to anyone whether you're in al-anon or not.  it's a prime book in my library and life.	2000-12-29
US	48159920	R198XY61BL2YQ0	0910034265	59241996	How Al-Anon Works for Families & Friends of Alcoholics	Books	5	139	141	N	N	you win with this one!	for those of us who have a drinking or sober alcoholic in our past or present (and god, don't most of us!), this book can help.  it's beautifully yet simply written and gently lays out a new philosophy for life, one in which we can learn to keep the focus on ourselves and our behavior, be honest but in an appropriate way, and be kind but firm - with boundaries.  this book offered me a whole new idea of what love and life are and can be, and encouraged me to walk forward in a healthy direction like few books have.<br />another strong plus is that it offers many personal stories - of how and why a wide range of people got into al-anon and how their recovery has been progressing, and each told by the individuals themselves, starting with Lois W., al-anon's co-founder, the wife of Bill W., the founder of AA.<br />this is a wonderful book and i recommend it highly!	2000-12-29
US	48159920	R1IRB4I89ORNLA	0415086388	60080109	Heinz Kohut and the Psychology of the Self (Makers of Modern Psychotherapy)	Books	4	19	28	N	N	fascinating stuff, some repetition, a little dry	fascinating stuff, some repetition (which is both good and bad - because this stuff is complex and i needed the repetition), though all a little dry... but the bottom line is, the stuff within is great.  all about the development of narcissism, be it healthy or unhealthy, and what is healthy narcissism.  describes how trauma in childhood (essentially improper love and care by parents or parental figures) constitutes a narcissistic injury to a child and impedes their healthy maturation, and how they get stuck in a certain infantile place, acting out their woundedness over and over and over again.<br />also talks about the recovery process through therapy, and different phases of recovery from disturbed narcissism.<br />all in all a fascinating book, though much technical terminology and complex explanations.  i think this information could be made much more simplified and accessible, but, nevertheless, kohut and this stuff written about him is groundbreaking, so better that it's a little dry than not there at all!	2000-12-28
US	48159920	R1S3M5PAHCQFHF	1883642493	245728156	Luisa Domic &amp; Shawno	Books	2	2	4	N	N	some good stuff, but not worth buying	this book is one worth skimming, and i skimmed most of it, actually read about 1/10th, and felt i'd gotten the essence of the book.<br />set in 1971.  all about this &quot;perfect&quot; family in rural maine (seemed far from perfect to me) and some visitors they had for a weekend, one of whom was a chilean refugee woman (luisa) who'd gotten out of the country only weeks after the coup in which her family (husband and chidlren) were massacred before her eyes.  the real essence of the book is how she interacts with this &quot;ideal&quot; and &quot;happy&quot; family, and the interest is in the juxtaposition of their comfort and happiness and her trauma and misery.  it's like completely different worlds colliding, and where it gets good is how one man from the maine world, actually a visitor from new york, is able to enter the world of the chilean woman through his emotional piano playing.  this part is fascinating...but remember, the fascinating part is just 1/10th of the book - and the rest is long descriptions about dull happy family routines and dogs and cider-pressing and pinecones.<br />i think this book could (should?) be condensed into a good 30 page short story.	2000-12-28
US	48159920	R2KD4MI1KCZJ1R	8401462436	161275729	Papillon (Spanish edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	one to read again and again	this is a book that's up there with the godfather, similar actually, in that it's a story of an exceedingly macho yet modest guy.  this is an adventure extraordinaire, and it's got the good moral overtones - you want to see this &quot;wrongly accused criminal&quot; get free.  i do wonder, though, did this guy actually do what he was convicted of???  for many years, however, papillon, the man that is, as told through the book, has been a role model of mine (i rather hate to admit it), the guy who's so tough inside that nothing can beat him, no prison can chain him down forever, etc. ...[B]ut i would say, if you haven't read this, DO!	2000-12-13
US	48159920	R1JHFDO31QALUX	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	1	6	23	N	N	&quot;1&quot; star, because 1/5 of the book was good	the first 1/5th of the book was good, had a good plot going, interesting characters, vintage salinger, the cynicism, the whole nine yards.  but then it just went to hell in a handbasket, fizzled and puzzled and wuzzled and ultimately just became unreadable and DULL.  god bless you if you can finish this book and have enjoyed the whole thing...i couldn't.  indigestable.	2000-12-13
US	48159920	R37MC98Z6C5AG7	0452275040	611839930	Dear Theo: The Autobiography of Vincent Van Gogh	Books	2	12	99	N	N	here's your unadulterated chance to see just how screwed...	here's your unadulterated chance to see just how screwed up van gogh was.  letter after letter after letter sitting on the pity pot writing to his younger brother whining for money, crying for assistance, guilting his brother into supporting his art...his art habit...his art addiction.  ya know, after reading this book my perspective on van gogh changed.  he struck me as an ultra-martyr (in the icky sense of the word), so big into self-pity.  now, having since read a little more of his history - screwy parents, etc. -  i have some more compassion for the guy and for why he was so screwed up, but these letters are honestly nothing short of tedious.  one after the other, whining for money, then waxing eloquent about his art, which actually struck me often as quite manipulative - like he was justifying his existence and his productivity to theo.<br />anyway, i still think van gogh is a wonderful artist, but what a messed up life - can't miss that from these letters.  but god, i wish they'd been even more edited.  and one other thing - irving stone (the editor) thinks van gogh is one of the world's greatest writers and philosophers of all times, in addition to being the honcho primo artist.  well, as for philosopher, sorry irving, no.  the guy was miserable and depressed and lonely, and seemed to philosophize in his letters to just keep contact with the world, but his philosophy gets under my skin.	2000-12-13
US	48159920	R2MBX0IEXMNLAP	0029212952	892961367	Family Healing	Books	5	15	27	N	N	since it's by minuchin, it's a winner...but...	i read this about two months ago, so take this with a grain of salt.  then again, maybe it's better, cause here's what's stuck with me.  it was a good book, but it really helped that i was into salvador minuchin already before reading it.  if you don't know him, he's quite an icon, and i recommend watching some of his videos, because they really point to his genius, and for me, were the inspiration to want to delve deeper into his work.<br />this book tells a lot of minuchin's history, his development as a doctor and therapist, some early strengths of his as well as foibles and weaknesses (interesting stuff!), and just a fair amount of stuff you'd expect in any 3/4ths of the way decent autobiography.<br />anyway, my mind is shot so i'll leave this book in your hands.  if you're interesting in minuchin, i don't think you'll regret reading this book, but i wouldn't recommend it as an intro to him or his work...	2000-12-09
US	48159920	R2YZUFN98UESMV	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	painful, but a winner!	i'm sure everyone has already said everything, so i'll make this short.  i read this book maybe three years ago and here's what it's done for me.<br />1) anytime i meet someone from nigeria i have a ready-made conversation.  they all know the book, love chinua achebe, and love to talk about it.  and since i do too, everyone wins.<br />2)  what sticks with me even now, though i haven't looked at the book since, is the deep pain that went on in that village as it transitioned toward christianity.  i'll never forget that character of Ikemefuna (sp?), the sacrificed &quot;peace-child.&quot;  still makes me feel like i could cry when i think of the tragedy.  of so many sacrificed, and why?	2000-11-25
US	48159920	R2JQBGKKGGSM9T	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	enter a new world...for a day	what makes this book worth four stars is as much what is says as what it does not.  going into painstaking detail about one day in the life of a prisoner in the gulag - one of like 10,000 days of his prisoner life - this book conjures up a whole world.<br />at points it was a little tedious and hard to follow, but the main thrust of the roughness of his life just made the journey from cover to cover one worth following.<br />main plus of the book and thing making it worth reading:  snapped me out of my little world for a few hours and made me grateful about how my life is...about my freedom.  that guy was a modern slave.  and i'm not.  like bob marley says:  emancipate yourself from mental slavery, none but ourselves can free our minds.  well, this book helps.	2000-11-25
US	48159920	R1AZHU7M83X0BI	0385474555	441055368	No Longer at Ease	Books	4	4	16	N	N	not as good as things fall apart, but worth the read...	another painful book, a book about transition.<br />pluses: (1) i could relate to the transitions; (2) i could relate to the temptations to cheat and lie; (3)i could relate to wanting to be a hero for &quot;my tribe&quot;; (4)a book about a wildly different culture from my own...that in many ways isn't really so different; (5)it's a sequel to &quot;things fall apart&quot;, so the beloved characters (or their descendants) from that book LIVE ON!<br />minusus:  (1) not the most dynamic story; (2) not particularly emotionally or spiritually redeeming	2000-11-25
