US	48266571	R3BURX0G5BLCJM	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	3	2	13	N	N	Whoops!	It's a pity a sensational book on punctuation sports a punctuation error in the title on the cover!	2004-09-13
US	48266571	RA6S4EZLXQZPX	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Deceived?	I know it is annoying to read a review like this one, because I am going to start out by comparing \\"Deception Point\\" to another of Dan Brown's books, \\"The Da Vinci Code\\". The latter is definitely better than the former for me. I found \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" to be one of the best books I have ever read, but \\"Deception Point\\", although also very good, still comes up a porr second. As usual Dan Brown captivaes us with his mix of fact and fiction, explaining some very interesting scientifc and teachnical breakthroughs. He does an excellent job of simplifying science, such as the composition of meteors, without making you think that you are stuck in Geology 101. While I found the story fascinating, I did find it stretched the believable just a little to far, and the twists I have come to expect from reading the blurb on this book and reading other Dan Brown stuff just didn't have the impact and cleverness to them. Another thing that irritaed me was that as the book went on, I was finding myself skipping parts to get to the story. There is a lot of unnecesary filler to this book, and information we do't really need. Still, it is worth reading, but if you are a Dan Brown afficionade, you might be slightly disappointed by this offering.	2004-08-09
US	48266571	R250GBZQKVN9OK	0804818649	759977676	Tuttle's Concise Indonesian Dictionary: English-Indonesian Indonesian-English (Tuttle Language Library)	Books	2	15	16	N	N	For a tourist muddling through, not for serious learners	Dictionaries that, for most entries, simply give a selection of foreign words for an English word with no explanation of how they are used, are only of a limited use to a serious language learner. This is one such dictionary. A good dictionary will strive to give contextual clues for the usage of the various translations, and several common expressions and idioms that are related to the words you are looking up or working with. A further complaint, and a quirk of Indonesian resource writers that I can't copmprehend, is that most resources you buy these days do NOT make any attempt to mark in the occurence of the difference in pronunciation of \\"e\\" that occurs in some very common words. I can never see why, as the learner is lost without this guidence! The problem is that for Indonesian, there are so few, if any reasonably-prices dictionaries that are of any real benefit to the language learner. As it happens, and thanks to the 2003 edition of \\"Teach Yourself Indonesian\\" (which does, incidentally take into account the pronunciations of \\"e\\", as does the old version! Incidentally, I recommend the current edition of \\"Teach Yourself Indonesian\\" hands-down for anyone considering learning Indonesian - It's fantastic!), there IS a good dictionary available, but is isn't available through any of the Amazon sites. It is, to my knowledge, only available through OUP (Oxford University Press) Australia and it's called \\"The Oxford Indonesian Starter Dictionary\\". It's much better than the one I'm reviewing here!	2004-08-09
US	48266571	R2U6EZAYJVI09I	0971853312	633540184	Worldwide Multilingual Phrase Book: Survival Skills for Over 40 Languages	Books	1	18	22	N	N	Jack of all trades, master of none.	Mr Dondero certainly likes to blow his own trumpet, describing himself as a multilingual language professional who sports a command of 20 languages! In his editorial review (which might undergo a hasty edit after Eric reads this!), Mr Dondero writes: <br /> <br />\\"I started off writing this book for myself. I needed a quick reference guide for all the languages that I spoke.\\"  <br /> <br />If he speaks all the 20 or so languages he boasts about so openly, so well, then why would he need a phrase book to remind himself of them? That, coupled with the extensive errors in the book, points to the fact that Eric is a mere dabbler in most of these languages, and not the multilingual genius he would like to have us believe! His Spanish seems to be OK, though, due more to an accident of birth I imagine, rather than to any real expertise in learning languages! With all those errors in the book, just imagine how flawed most of these languages he speaks must be!  <br />  <br />A quick visit to Dondero's website, and it soon becomes clear that Eric's professional interest in language is more geared towards Mickey Mouse \\"communuication\\" language learning, rather than serious language study, his new offering being \\"Vacation Spanish\\". I don't intend to buy it, but I'll hazard a guess at more set phrases, rather than a solid book on language learning. More dabbling, less studying, eh Eric? It's Spanish, so who knows, maybe Eric will have gotten all the words and phrases right this time...or maybe not. If the quality of the \\"Worldwide multilingual phrasebook\\" is the best he can come up with, I feel very strongly that he should not be writing books that readers have to rely on, believeing that they are solid and correct educational materials, and pay good money for! Finally, I know it seems like a minor point, but I really hate the book's cover! The design looks so old and boring! Still, I'll give the cover atrist the benefit of the doubt and judge the book by its content, and not byits cover! Er...maybe I should stick with the cover after all!	2004-08-09
US	48266571	R28RKBLMQ67XI6	0300064136	22627772	Russian Motion Verbs for Intermediate Students (Yale Language Series)	Books	3	36	36	N	N	Good content, no key	Russian verbs of motion are undoubtedly one of the main hurdles to overcome to become accurate and functional in the language. This book on motion verbs fills a gap left when the Khavronina version went out of print. Mahota's book is very well planned and does a very good job of explaining the verbs of motion in bite-sized chunks. Plenty of real-world, useful examples are given throughout, as well as ample opportunity to practise what you have learnt for yourself. So why three stars? Although the content is excellent, and useful for any student of Russian I would imagine, the book has no key to any of the exercises, so you can only use it with a teacher! In my opinion, the lack of key reduces the value of this book by half because no student studying by himself can use it effectively beyond the explanations, as there is no feedback for the exercises! This is a serious lack of foresight, as there are a lot of self-study language learners out there these days. Add to that the fact that you are paying 30 dollars for an incomplete book.	2004-07-18
US	48266571	R1UP5QII1M6A63	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	10	22	N	N	Whining Christians!	Look, to all the bloody Christians out there, I say STOP WHINGING and pretending to be so devout by being offended by this book! What would be so bad about Jesus being married anyway? Mohammed was married, you know! And what's more, this book shows up just how arrogant and bigoted Christianity is because it focusses on the man and the male. What's so wrong about female divinity anyway? Dan makes a very good point, amongst many others, that the bible was written by humans, and what's more MALE humans. Of course it is going to reflect the interests of the church and the power it weilded over people! Develop a thicker skin or just pretend that the book doesn't exist if you want to bury your heads in the sand and hide from the truth!	2004-04-09
US	48266571	R3MHIA1QOIUIYR	0385504209	503118391	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	16	N	N	A great book whether you are a religious nut, or not!	Look, to all the bloody Christians out there, I say STOP WHINGING and pretending to be so devout by being offended by this book! What would be so bad about Jesus being married anyway? Mohammed was married, you know! And what's more, this book shows up just how arrogant and bigoted Christianity is because it focusses on the man and the male. What's so wrong about female divinity anyway? Dan makes a very good point, amongst many others, that the bible was written by humans, and what's more MALE humans. Of course it is going to reflect the interests of the church and the power it weilded over people! Develop a thicker skin or just pretend that the book dopesn't exist if you want to bury your heads in the sand and hide from the truth!	2004-04-08
US	48266571	R1B60R0H0698AQ	0385504209	503118391	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Rivetting!	I am not a great novel reader, but I found Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code un-put-downable, if there is such a word! If you are about to set out on a long-haul plane joirney, buy this - the flight will pass in no time! <BR>Not only does Dan provide a very entertaining story and believable development of characters, but the information he offers on ciphers and symbols in art will mean that I will never look at a masterpiece in the same way again.<BR>Dan Brown - a true master of intrigue!<BR>P.S. Don't let the religious nuts and God Squad folk put you off this excellent work. They are bound to be angry about some of the ideas in it - but the point is that the church who put those ideas forward is shown up to be just what it is in The Da Vinci Code.	2004-04-07
US	48266571	R10KTZC4QZ3A7	0838427731	150926056	Memory, Meaning and Method	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Not recommended	This is probably the most boring and superficial work on language learning that I have ever read. I don't know what it is about Stevick's writing style - it isn't complicated or anything, but I find my mind wandering constantly reading anything written by him.<BR>There is a lot of what seems to be superflous material in this book where Stevick is commenting on other works or acknowledging them. It is more like a university thesis than a readable book, and it is one that seems to draw very few conclusions. The memory section is about what appears to me to be circumstantial evidence regarding memory based on experiments with rats, that Stevick tries to work intoa  discussion of memory in language learning. The methods section mentions audiolingualism, and then shifts straight onto a superficial (like everything else in this book) discussion on Lozanov. I got very little from this book, and regret purchasing it, despite its enticing title.  <BR>If you have to write a university paper on something language orientated, then you might get some usable quotes from this, but I wouldn't bother raising your hopes about expanding your own language learning or teaching with it. I wonder why Earl W. Stevick is considered to be an expert on language. I can't see it, even if others can!	2004-02-18
US	48266571	R2IIIQT53KQTJW	1929986033	520336167	Beginning Chinese (Mandarin)--(Critical Languages Series)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	For a serious student of Chinese.	Firtsly, it feels as though this course was developed by a university Chinese department primarily as a supplement to the courses at their own university. I may be wrong, but that's how it feels. It is more of a text book on a CD Rom than a course that makes full use of the computer medium. <br />One of the selling points of this course is undoubtedly the multi-media video clips that feature in each unit. They are so low-budget that they appear to be a gimmick, rather than a viable feature of the course. First of all they have been shot against what looks like a curtain loosely pinned on a board. When there are two people on the clip together you can quite clearly see the edges! However, most of the clips feature conversations between two or mor epeople, but hey only show one person speaking at a time! They seem to think that the viewer will find the fact that one person looks a little to the left, as though spekaing to someone who is on the left, and the other person doing the reverse, convincing! It isn't by any means. I am sure they could have done a lot more with these video clips if they had wanted to rather than just film 3 departmental staff in their everyday clothes, with the unconvincing addition of props like a book, a hat and even a telephone! Whoopee! A telephone! The clips feature 3 people - 2 women, one of whom is reasonably appealing and another one who, frankly, isn't! The third is a man who, on the second CD, looks as though he has just gotten out of bed, judging by the state of his hair. What are these video clips for? They may be of marginal use for seeing how the mouths look when sounds are being made, or they may help to focus concentration more on the task, but as they stand, they are a sorry addition to the program. It is almost laughable that, in the &quot;how to use the course&quot; instructions, we are told to look for &quot;contextual clues&quot; while viewing the video clips for the first time. What clues? Someone looking left and someoneelse looking right against a green background are not exactly useful, or even realistic clues to meaning! There is a unit on eating out - why didn't they at least order a take out and set it up round a table? It wouldn't exactly have broken the departmental budget, would it?  <br />There is a separate section called &quot;Supplemental materials&quot; in the course which contains a range of subject-specific vocabulary items, all with sound. Good so far. However, this section also contains poems, games and tongue twisters all with sound and no text! You haven't got a clue what is going on! As for the toungue twisters, they are done by the less atractive of the two women, and the sounds just get uglier the faster they get. This video section is superflous! <br />Another negative point I found was the sound. Firstly, I had to call up the pinyin on occasion to hear exactly what the speaker was saying, as it just wasn't clear enough! Secondly, the pronunciation exercises are spoken exclusively by a female, so I found that I was having unnecessary difficulty trying to pitch my voice accordingly. Trying to convert her examples to my pitch range and learn the tones as well, just gets frustrating, and I have a good ear for languages! This problem could easily have been solved by having the option to have a male voice to repeat after, if desired. This is s failing of the course. The repeat and record feature of the course, is excellent, however, apart from having to confirm some of the intended sounds with the pinyin beforehand.<br />If you don't want to learn characters, then this course is not for you. While you can call up pinyin at the text reading stage, you are only presented characters when it comes to doing the exercises, which are undoable without the characters! That said, there is a good range of linguistically orientated tasks such as cloze-gap and flashcard drills, but if you are expecting a &quot;Let's play a game!&quot; approach that you get in a lot of software these days, then you are in for a disappointment. This is a very academic course, and, probably, all the better for it!<br />Is it worth getting? Although there are a few things to iron out, yes! It does not suffice as a stand-alone course, but it will supplement well any beginners text you are using (You will also need a text that covers characters), as explanations are really not full enough. For the price it is much better value than the awful Rosetta Stone courses! Finally, the spoken Chinese on this Rom is fast! You can slow it down so it goes word by word, another appealing feature, but at full speed, it is better of you know some Chinese first before you use this, as you may feel overwhelmed as a beginner.	2004-02-03
US	48266571	R12365FVR8PZ0Z	1569247501	905180523	Psychic Discoveries	Books	1	9	35	N	N	Large pinch of salt on standby...	This is another book by the comedy duo Schroeder and Ostrander - the gullible pair who were obviously duped into believeing pro-Soviet hype for a &quot;magic&quot; learning system called &quot;Superlearning&quot; that they put together after so called demonstrations of wonderous and effortless learning in communist Bulgaria in the 70's. You only need to read my other reviews to see just what I think of the crap the Superlearning company produces! Anyway, it looks like they also fell for more hype and propaganda from Russia this time! Look at some of the titles in the book &quot;Is it getting crowded on the moon?&quot;!!! Come on! Some of the accounts they give are just so obviously contrived, such as the 8 foot alian who landed in Voronezh and took a stroll through a crowded square with his smaller companion that he called &quot;robot&quot;. Robot? You mean he/it said that in English or Russian? Maybe it was Czech, after all &quot;robot&quot;is a word coined by a Czech author! It isn't Star Trek where every life form speaks English for our benefit! How they could be taken in I'll never know...or were they taken in? It's a good money spinner, after all! And just who provided all the statistics and experimental findings? It wasn't the same kind of people who gave them the &quot;facts&quot; about Suggestopedia and those convoluted retention rates, was it? I'm sure the Soviets were totally decent people who wouldn't dream of making things up, would they. Next the'll be saying that the moon landings never took place. I ask you!!! This title is another piece of idiotic fiction to add to your &quot;Superlearning&quot; collection.	2004-01-21
US	48266571	RGTFBX6URDQBL	0804833907	899935535	Making Out in Chinese: Revised Edition (Making Out Books)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Note: I am reviewing the updated edition (2003)	The new edition, which has been revised by someone other than the original author now contains Chinese characters, Pinyin and a simplified pronunciation guide for each entry. If you are looking for a complete guide to slang then this book is disappointingly thin on the ground. It gives one way to say something, that is a valid way, but it misses out other ways that are just as likely to be encountered in common, everyday usage. I was impressed with some of the attention to cultural, idiomatic usage, that was very helpful, such as the euphemistic way Chinese people refer to a woman's level of beauty. Finally, one caveat with learning Chinese - If you are starting out, you can't learn to pronounce it well from a book alone, even if it does include Pinyin, or other make-shift phonetics, as this one does. You just won't be understood. For the price, this book is OK, but just OK. I feel that a lot more could have been included and hope that the publisher will produce a follow up like they did with &quot;Making Out in Japanese&quot;.	2004-01-21
US	48266571	R3MWOCC0MZK657	0844287024	789911859	Italianissimo 1: Beginners	Books	5	3	4	N	N	You're in good hands with BBC languages courses.	It is a pity that English produced courses are not well-known in other countries, because the ones produced by the BBC are excellent, this one included! This course book was originally designed to accompany a full multimedia package that included both television braodcasts entirely in Italian, presented by a very lovely Italian woman (I'd watch the programmes just to gawp at her! Pity she spends the whole series fully clothed!), and supporting radio programmes. I recommend that you consider the full package if you are planning to learn from this, especially if you are involved in study on your own. Obviously, the cassettes contain most of the dilaogues from the radio programmes, minus the explanations you get in English, and are invaluable if you are a self-learner. <BR>The components work altogether to create a very effective learning experience which gives you functional language and cultural information, while still presenting you with the grammar you need, if you want to learn it. A key, and unique feature of Italianissimo is the learner choice between two &quot;tracks&quot; for learning. One of these focusses on the functional language ify ou are in ahurry, or if you do not want to get bogged down in grammatical explanations, while the other allows you to get a more in depth knowledge of the langauge.	2004-01-21
US	48266571	R2HO7IY34UL4ET	0375418458	509398456	Performance Superlearning	Books	1	11	11	N	N	Yet more of the same scam - same old, different package!	Before reading this review I will give you some idea of my background so you can judge my review on the basis of my experience. I am a multilingual language teacher and writer with a keen interest in accelerated learning techniques, and have been such for several years. I first became interested in Superlearning several years ago as a possible method for increaing both my own language learning rate, which is considerable, and that of my students. Superleaning looked like something really new and innovative, and, having read the original Superlearning book, I decided to buy several Superlearning products from their website, including the audio course, special learning cassettes and a language course produced by the authors and based on the exact procedures laid out in their books. I wanted to be sure I was doing it properly. I also wish to point out that the products are not cheap by any means, well, not in price anyway. In terms of quality of the materials, recording and presentatiom, I have never encountered anything so cheap and shoddy!<BR>Five years later, and after even more extensive research and experimentation with the system, both personally and in my classes, I can only say that almost all of this system is a sham. It doesn't work. I used a language course produce by them, and found no benefit whatsoever in it. The only benefit I got was to use the course, which I would also like to point out is nothing more than 3 tapes and a very thin and cheaply produced pamphlet of words and phrases and, on occasion the recording did not match the transcript, was to use the tapes without the highly distracting breathing exercises and do it the old-fashioned way. I made my own tapes too, as per the instructiosn in the course, which was a vastly time-consuming process, and had the same lack of result as the \\"professionally\\" produced languages tapes by the authors themselves! <br />There is no doubt that proper relaxation, relaxed breathing, positive suggestions and classical music can have varying degrees of benefit on the students, but the method you will find in ALL the books and programmes produced by Superlearning leaves a great deal to be desired! <br />I was interested by another reviewer's reference to a researcher from Monash univerity and her work into Lozanov and Superlearning. As I don't think a text link is allowed in a review, you might like to do a web search for \\"The personal website of Uschi Felix\\" at Monash University for a lot more information about Superleaning and the validity of some of the claims made before you are tempted to part with your hard earned and get a disappointment.<br />Having tried to contact Superlearning with questions and complaints, I can only attribute the lack of service and, indeed, acknowledgement I encountered to the fact that they must get a lot of comments and complaints from some very dissatisfied customers! I urge you not to buy into this. You are being taken for a ride.<br />To those reviewers who are getting so excited by the promises in the Superlearning products, all I can say is try it and see, but when you find it doesn't work don't blame yourselves for anything other than not having followed my advice not to buy! I am dismissing Superlearning on the basis of what I have found out from my own efforts and on information provided by Uschi Felix, amongst others. <br />I get very annoyed when I see that they are still releasing more courses which say the same thing as their first book, and still have no positive effect on your learning!	2004-01-21
US	48266571	R2XK8FIZ0Q8RPY	0679780017	464982251	Japanese-English English-Japanese Dictionary (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good value	Unfortunately, where dictionaries are concerned there are very few offerings available for the English student of Japanese. Many of the larger ones are designed with the Japanese learner of English in mind.<BR>This dictioanry is probably the best one you will find if you are learning Japanese, and it is certainly very good value for money! I bought my copy about 6 years ago, and it has been used so often it is literally falling apart. I have lived in Japan for several years, and this dictioanry has, so far, fulfilled most of my needs, moreso than the Kodansha Basic Dictionary, which fails to provide a lot of words, but does maintain a phraseological approach that this Random House dictionary is sadly lacking. If you are looking for idiomatic usage of an English phrase in Japanese, you will proabably find that the equivalent of what you are looking for is not available in the English to Japanese section, so you will have to make do with a similar, but maybe less colouful way of expressing yourself, or buy and idiom book, and there are some good ones out there.  <BR>Still, all in all, you will be getting your money's worth with this, especially for understanding Japanese, but you may find it less useful when you want to express yourself in Japanese and look to this as a guide.	2004-01-20
US	48266571	R3IEL9AUREUW3W	0806512717	354234505	How To Learn Any Language: Quickly, Easily, Inexpensively, Enjoyably and on Your Own	Books	1	26	54	N	N	A better title for this book would be &quot;Me&quot; by Barry Farber!	I honestly don't know what people see in this book, or why it is rated so highly! This book is bad, take it from me, and unlike the reviewer before me, I think it is the author who makes it bad, really bad! Rarely do I encounter a writing style that oozes so much arrogance and conceit that I almost feel like vomiting and throttling someone, but Farber's purple prose does all that for me! This book contains page after page of egocentric waffle and blatant approval seeking that it makes my stomach churn! <BR>I do agree with the author in certain respects (goodness knows how I managed to get through the whole book!) He does say that language learning is a difficult and time consuming process, and does not play down the part grammar has to play in language aquisition, which is something modern methods do with disasterous results for the learners. I can only assume that people are getting motivation from this book, but I don't know why there are so many 5 star ratings for it! You could whittle all the verbal garbage and self-adulation down to about 10 pages of useful information, well some of it is useful, and some of it is rather suspect. I don't think that Barry Farber is a very good linguist either. He makes a lot of mistakes in this book. A really good linguist would not feel the need to show-off as much as Farber does. I do not recommend this book at all, but it is better than the one written by Hawke, even so! At least there is some substance in it, even if only a little. The thing is, are you willing to wade through all that superflous verbiage to get to it? It would seem that a lot of reviewers are. The mind boggles!<BR>So if you want to read it, I suggest buying a rather strong vomit bag to keep at your side, just in case you get as sick as I did of an author puffing out his chest and trying to show you how much better than everyone else he is! Many people find Americans arrogant, and most Americans think that New Yorkers are arrogant, and I believe Mr Farber isa New Yorker par excellence! Put that unfounded arrogance into a book, and what have you got? &quot;How to learn a foreign language&quot;.	2004-01-20
US	48266571	R2FGRGBJSQZNTC	0440223881	642779359	Superlearning 2000: New Triple Fast Ways You Can Learn, Earn, and Succeed in the 21st Century	Books	1	144	149	N	N	A total waste of time and money	Before reading this review I will give you some idea of my background so you can judge my review on the basis of my experience. I am a multilingual language teacher and writer with a keen interest in accelerated learning techniques, and have been such for several years. I first became interested in Superlearning several years ago as a possible method for increaing both my own language learning rate, which is considerable, and that of my students. Superleaning looked like something really new and innovative, and, having read the original Superlearning book, I decided to buy several Superlearning products from their website, including the audio course, special learning cassettes and a language course produced by the authors and based on the exact procedures laid out in their books. I wanted to be sure I was doing it properly. I also wish to point out that the products are not cheap by any means, well, not in price anyway. In terms of quality of the materials, recording and presentatiom, I have never encountered anything so cheap and shoddy!<br />Five years later, and after even more extensive research and experimentation with the system, both personally and in my classes, I can only say that almost all of this system is a sham. It doesn't work. I used a language course produce by them, and found no benefit whatsoever in it. The only benefit I got was to use the course, which I would also like to point out is nothing more than 3 tapes and a very thin and cheaply produced pamphlet of words and phrases and, on occasion the recording did not match the transcript, was to use the tapes without the highly distracting breathing exercises and do it the old-fashioned way. I made my own tapes too, as per the instructiosn in the course, which was a vastly time-consuming process, and had the same lack of result as the \\"professionally\\" produced languages tapes by the authors themselves!  <br />There is no doubt that proper relaxation, relaxed breathing, positive suggestions and classical music can have varying degrees of benefit on the students, but the method you will find in ALL the books and programmes produced by Superlearning leaves a great deal to be desired! <br />I was interested by another reviewer's reference to a researcher from Monash univerity and her work into Lozanov and Superlearning. As I don't think a text link is allowed ina  review, you might like to do a web search for \\"The personal website of Uschi Felix\\" at Monash University for a lot more information about Superleaning and the validity of some of the claims made before you are tempted to part with your hard earned and get a disappointment.<br />Having tried to contact Superlearning with questions and complaints, I can only attribute the lack of service and, indeed, acknowledgement I encountered to the fact that they must get a lot of commenst from some very dissatisfied people! I urge you not to buy into this scam. You are being taken for a ride.<br />To those reviewers who are getting so excited by the promises in the Superlearning products, all I can say is try it and see. Remember - I was just like you a few years ago!	2004-01-19
US	48266571	R2WXZ38CJ4UZ6P	0385289529	293965981	Superlearning	Books	1	65	70	N	N	You are being taken for a ride.	Before reading this review I will give you some idea of my background so you can judge my review on the basis of my experience. I am a multilingual language teacher and writer with a keen interest in accelerated learning techniques, and have been such for several years. I first became interested in Superlearning several years ago as a possible method for increaing both my own language learning rate, which is considerable, and that of my students. Superleaning looked like something really new and innovative, and, having read the original Superlearning book, I decided to buy several Superlearning products from their website, including the audio course, special learning cassettes and a language course produced by the authors and based on the exact procedures laid out in their books. I wanted to be sure I was doing it properly. I also wish to point out that the products are not cheap by any means, well, not in price anyway. In terms of quality of the materials, recording and presentatiom, I have never encountered anything so cheap and shoddy!<br />Five years later, and after even more extensive research and experimentation with the system, both personally and in my classes, I can only say that almost all of this system is a sham. It doesn't work. I used a language course produce by them, and found no benefit whatsoever in it. The only benefit I got was to use the course, which I would also like to point out is nothing more than 3 tapes and a very thin and cheaply produced pamphlet of words and phrases and, on occasion the recording did not match the transcript, was to use the tapes without the highly distracting breathing exercises and do it the old-fashioned way. I made my own tapes too, as per the instructiosn in the course, which was a vastly time-consuming process, and had the same lack of result as the \\"professionally\\" produced languages tapes by the authors themselves!  <br />There is no doubt that proper relaxation, relaxed breathing, positive suggestions and classical music can have varying degrees of benefit on the students, but the method you will find in ALL the books and programmes produced by Superlearning leaves a great deal to be desired! <br />I was interested by another reviewer's reference to a researcher from Monash univerity and her work into Lozanov and Superlearning. As I don't think a text link is allowed ina  review, you might like to do a web search for \\"The personal website of Uschi Felix\\" at Monash University for a lot more information about Superleaning and the validity of some of the claims made before you are tempted to part with your hard earned and get a disappointment.<br />Having tried to contact Superlearning with questions and complaints, I can only attribute the lack of service and, indeed, acknowledgement I encountered to the fact that they must get a lot of commenst from some very dissatisfied people! I urge you not to buy into this scam. You are being taken for a ride.<br />To those reviewers who are getting so excited by the promises in the Superlearning products, all I can say is try it and see. Remember - I was just like you a few years ago!	2004-01-19
US	48266571	R1MB8V7U3Q6VUQ	0671663917	182066831	Superlearning Maximize Your Memory	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Don't be taken in!	Before reading this review I will give you some idea of my background so you can judge my review on the basis of my experience. I am a multilingual language teacher and writer with a keen interest in accelerated learning techniques, and have been such for several years. I first became interested in Superlearning several years ago as a possible method for increaing both my own language learning rate, which is considerable, and that of my students. Superleaning looked like something really new and innovative, and, having read the original Superlearning book, I decided to buy several Superlearning products from their website, including the audio course, special learning cassettes and a language course produced by the authors and based on the exact procedures laid out in their books. I wanted to be sure I was doing it properly. I also wish to point out that the products are not cheap by any means, well, not in price anyway. In terms of quality of the materials, recording and presentatiom, I have never encountered anything so cheap and shoddy!<br />Five years later, and after even more extensive research and experimentation with the system, both personally and in my classes, I can only say that almost all of this system is a sham. It doesn't work. I used a language course produce by them, and found no benefit whatsoever in it. The only benefit I got was to use the course, which I would also like to point out is nothing more than 3 tapes and a very thin and cheaply produced pamphlet of words and phrases and, on occasion the recording did not match the transcript, was to use the tapes without the highly distracting breathing exercises and do it the old-fashioned way. I made my own tapes too, as per the instructiosn in the course, which was a vastly time-consuming process, and had the same lack of result as the \\"professionally\\" produced languages tapes by the authors themselves!  <br />There is no doubt that proper relaxation, relaxed breathing, positive suggestions and classical music can have varying degrees of benefit on the students, but the method you will find in ALL the books and programmes produced by Superlearning leaves a great deal to be desired! <br />I was interested by another reviewer's reference to a researcher from Monash univerity and her work into Lozanov and Superlearning. As I don't think a text link is allowed ina  review, you might like to do a web search for \\"The personal website of Uschi Felix\\" at Monash University for a lot more information about Superleaning and the validity of some of the claims made before you are tempted to part with your hard earned and get a disappointment.<br />Having tried to contact Superlearning with questions and complaints, I can only attribute the lack of service and, indeed, acknowledgement I encountered to the fact that they must get a lot of commenst from some very dissatisfied people! I urge you not to buy into this scam. You are being taken for a ride.<br />To those reviewers who are getting so excited by the promises in the Superlearning products, all I can say is try it and see. Remember - I was just like you a few years ago!	2004-01-19
US	48266571	R3D19SI0K95ODE	0631193812	46727714	A Russian Grammar Workbook	Books	5	44	46	N	N	An indispensable companion to the Wade grammar book	There is little to say about this workbook that the editorial review does not cover. If you are a student of Russian at university, or if you are serious about learning this challenging language by yourself, then you would do well to have a grammar book and workbook like the Wade combo to work through. It is directly linked to what you learn in the grammar, and if you are one of those die-hard language learner types who can actually work your way through a grammar book from cover to cover, then having the workbook to practise and expand upon the grammar points in a great bonus. It will turn what is, esentially a reference work into a practice work. Although, personally, I do not think the grammar book covers all that it should (read my review of it for more details) for high level students, it does cover a lot and this workbook makes it all the more worthwhile. There is no short cut to Russian grammar, no matter what other titles that proport to make Russian and its grammar quick or easy. This work makes no such claims either. It is a serious grammar workbook that really puts you through your paces. It will give even the hardened linguist a thorough and challenging workout, and will take several weeks of dedicated study to plough through so don't expect an easy ride. I suppose it needs to be said that if you expect an easy ride, you shouldn't be considering learning Russian anyway.	2004-01-16
US	48266571	RLTOVQKEL6703	1581600968	236098580	The Quick and Dirty Guide to Learning Languages Fast	Books	1	30	49	N	N	The cheap and nasty guide to learning languages badly.	It is hardly surprising that you can't get to see what is inside this book beyond the cover and copyright page! If you did, you wouldn't part with your hard-earned for such a superficial and time-wasting exercise in learning a few words in a foreign language! Literally, most of the pages are covered in charts of high frequency words in English that, (Get this!) you have to fill in yourself in the foreign language!!! You can get phrase books with the foreign words already written next to the English words. How innovative! I am not at all impressed with the infantile language learning tips either. They are next to useless. The author is said to be &quot;certifid&quot; byt he US army in several languages. All I can say is that you don't need to know much to get certified if the shoddy standard you will reach at the end of this book is anything to go by. Moreover, after all the time you spend looking up your words you still have to learn them! There is no secret here and no method to speak of either. I can't believe anyone has the cheek to charge $20 as the list price for this. Even at $14 it's not worth the paper it's printed on. That I am required to give this book 1 star is an insult in itself. <br />If you are looking for a way to help your laguage learning along, and you are tempted by the ill-fitting title promising you a quick-fix, my advice is DON'T BOTHER! Rather than spending your money on this rubbish you can buy a phrase book with a tape and work through that. It will save you money and time and give you a higher quality learning experience than this horrible little book can afford you!	2004-01-15
US	48266571	R1VQ24B84FBYJG	0195911512	892881735	Concise English-Chinese Chinese-English Dictionary	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Chinese is difficult enough - Why make it harder?	I was disappointed by this dictionary, because it doesn't really seem well geared to people wishing to learn Chinese, but more to Chinese native speakers wishing to learn English. The reason I point this out is that, as the reviewer before me points out, the examples are in Chinese characters with no pinyin in the Chinese section. The methodology of the dictionary in that it gives example sentences and not just one word for another is sound, however, unless you already read Chinese well, you will be at a loss when it comes to using those all-important example phrases. Incidentally, this seems to be a regular habit of Chinese publishing houses which produce manuals and courses for learns of the language, as I have pointed out in my review of &quot;New Slang Of China&quot; and as I have observed in a set of idiom books produced from another publishing house in the east, many teaching aids do not take into account the fact that beginner and even intermediate students of Chinese still need pinyin or some other form of transliteration as a crutch, otherwise the examples are well nigh worthless! I am surprised to see this trend also in teh Oxford dictionary, unless it is intended primarily for Chinese students and not students of Chinese, especially as the author is a westerner! You would think he would know what learners really need, no wouldn't you? There's no excuse! Fortunately, Oxford has had the good sense to release a new dictionary, &quot;The Oxford Starter Chinese Dictionary&quot; which, as the name suggests, in geared towards learners of Chinese. You would do well to have that book as well as this one, or, given the choice, instead of it. Us ethe other one and keep this one for someof the more complicated words you might need to look up.	2004-01-13
US	48266571	R23TVZATH4JTFR	0962222208	196890478	How to Learn a Foreign Language: Easy to Use Diagrammed Study     Techniquies That Will Help You Learn a New Language	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Honestly!	I haven't read this so I can't comment on content, but as I am obliged to give a star rating, I'll have to give one based on the price. I mean, honestly! Who in their right minds would pay nearly 200 bucks for this?!!!	2003-12-17
US	48266571	R2PCGOUXRBJ5SS	0071420266	344463209	Teach Yourself: Indonesian	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Your guide to real Indonesian conversation	This new version is vastly different from the 1965 version by Mr Kwee, which is good, but heavily based uppon grammar rather than communication! The new version is the most functional, up-to-date text book for learning Indonesian on the market today, to my knowledge, and a valuable addition to your tool-kit if you are planning to visit Indonesia or study Indonesian. The approach is communicative and based around dialogues that reflect the way people speak as closely as possible. That is one of the great strengths of the course. Another strength is that you are only learning what you really need to know, but without skimping on the all-important grammar which is presented in a very user-friendly way with plenty of exercises to check undrestanding and to reinforce usage. Each unit looks at both formal spoken Indonesian and more colloquial spoken Indonesian, but the key is that the focus is on the spoken language and developing useful skills in that area. Of course, written language is also covered, but Indonesian poses few problems to learners compared to most other languages! Another major feature compared to the Kwee version is the addition of audio CDs which are excellent! The quality is very clear and there is plenty, (and I mean plenty!) of material for developing speaking skills in the form of simulated dialogues. If I have one minor complaint it is that sometimes the pauses on the CDs during the simulated conversations are not long enough to fill in your part, but then again, if there were long pauses on the CDs I would probably be complaining that the recording time on the CDs had not been used to the full. As a linguist myself, I sometimes feel that the explanations are a little too simple, but I am sure that this is a good thing for non-linguists or lay-persons who need to get to grips with a language in the least complicated way possible. Admittedly, Teach Yourself Indonesian doesn't take you very far in the language but it is a great start and will give you a basic and useful knowledge of the language that you will be glad of on your travels. If you are contemplating learning Indonesian and you want to delve much deeper into the language than a phrasebook can give you, but you don't want to be burdened by the grammar based approach you might have had when learning languages at school, then this course is for you! I highly reccomend it, both as a first level introduction to idiomatic and colloquial expression in Indonesian, and as an introduction to Indonesian life and culture. I have seen a great many language books in my time, but I have never seen one as good as this for teaching communicative and functional language. The methodology is truly innovative and allows for painless, gradual assimilation of the language.	2003-12-04
US	48266571	R2F69OGGDU29UP	0415135354	403497640	Chinese: An Essential Grammar (Routledge Essential Grammars)	Books	1	18	29	N	N	I feel cheated!	This book is good, BUT having recently purchased it from Amazon for my impending Chinese studies, I was really annoyed to see that a better grammar book by the same author and publisher - A COMPREHENSIVE Grammar is already available. Note the date of my review here and especially the year. As of this time, Amazon states that the Comprehensive Grammar is &quot;Not yet released&quot;. If it is not yet released, then how could I have browed through a copy at a book store in Japan only last Saturday? It is also available through Amazon UK with a long wait. Admittedly, I checked the date of publishing in the Comprehensive Grammar and it said &quot;First Published 2004&quot;! I am in a time-warp or something? What is Routledge playing at? The Comrehensive Grammar is considerably more substantial than this work so I recommend that you resist the temptation to buy and put the money towards the Chinese: A Comprehensive Grammar - the book that is &quot;not yet published&quot;, requires a 4 to 6 week wait if you order through AmazonUK, but is already sitting on a bookshelf in Maruzen in Nagoya just waiting to be snapped up!	2003-12-04
US	48266571	R30T0H017WUY8T	189046001X	369997052	Joyful Fluency: Brain-Compatible Second Language Acquisition	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Old hat - expensive new coat!	&quot;Joyful Fluency&quot; is a visually beautiful book, and it would need to be to make up for the fact that there is not one unique or new idea in it! The content is merely a rewording of material you will find in books by Colin Rose and Ostrander and Schroeder, at a fraction of the price I might add! If you are looking for a book with lots of fuzzy ideas that avoid the subject of tackling a language head on, then this book is for you! It is ideas such as these that, in my opinion as a self-made polyglot and experienced language teacher, that have devalued effective and exacting language education and left us with ideas that can only really lead to pidgin fluency. I have seen it happen! The idea that language acquisition will just &quot;happen&quot; of it's own accord is a very common one in language education today. Any linguist worth his salts, or any language teacher - any REAL language teacher who has matered his or her language, that is, will tell you that the only way you become excellent at a language (as an adult) is to study it! The &quot;learn as you did as a child&quot; premise is nothing more than a gimmick! But because it smacks of the easy path to success it is welcomed with open arms. It doesn't work. Period.<BR>The author states things such as, &quot;The wonderful irony is that by making accuracy secondary, you'll end up with greater language competency,...&quot; (pp138) Wrong! By paying attention to grammar and idiom etc, and by drilling language patterns thoroughly you will reach a higher level of language competency. If you think that playing with puppets and wearing wigs is a way to go about learning a new language then be my guest! Finally this book is meant as a guide for teachers, not for self-language learners. Teachers may gain some benefit from some of the ideas therein, if combined with a real language course, but I'll say it again - 32US is a lot to pay for information that is second hand, not only that, it's also second rate! I have made many purchases at Amazon.com but I have never before been inclined to return a book, but it looks like this one is going to be on the way back to the depot very soon.	2003-11-17
US	48266571	RPSJCAJJJ6SN	7800055647	260050913	New Slang of China (Chinese Edition)	Books	1	7	7	N	N	For the advanced Chinese speaker only!	My main complaint about this book is that it is entirely unsuitable for new learners of Chinese. While the slang entries themselves are given in pinyin with tone markings, which is fine for foreign learners of the language, the example sentences given are entirely in Chinese characters, which makes it useless unless you already read Chinese really well, or unless you have a very sympathetic native speaker with you while you study! Judging from the English equivalent sentences, the Chinese may also be complex, certainly for the beginner or even the inetermediate learner who has not mastered a more or less native reading level of Chinese characters and character combinations. Any other learner needs the pinyin, or else will have to spend a great deal of time looking up the characters to determine proper usage of the slang in context, according to the examples given by the authors. Another highly important factor is that the force of the slang words is not discussed, meaning that what you may be saying may be a potent insult in China whereby the equivalent in English may not bear this out. One only  has to look at the difference in meaning and difference in force of a slang word in the same language - \\"fanny\\" means \\"bottom\\" in US English, but it has a much ruder meaning in UK English! So the difference between two languages so far removed could be great. It needs detailed explanation! Moreover, many of the equivalents given in English are not slang. They may be slang in Chinese, but that is not explained -yet another serious flaw! <br />That this is work produced by non-native English speakers is evident \\"You're fool\\" insted of \\"You're a fool\\", on whatever page it was, makes this quite clear. <BR>I think the problem is something you will encounter with many books and courses for foreign learners that are produced in China, namely that they do not take into account the needs of foreign learners from a foreign learner's point of view! This makes resources very difficultto use. I noticed a review for another resource on Amazon dealing with Chinese idioms that a reviewer complains about due to the lack of tone markings in the text. Chinese publishers would do well to take note of what foreign students of the language are saying here if they want to improve their products and sales. The \\"New Slang of China\\" I review here is not worth the 16 dollars or so you have to pay for it. It could probably be a good book with extra information and editing, but as it stands it is not a useful resource and does not deserve more than 1 star.	2003-11-12
US	48266571	R1Y7VNS82NXBC8	0194315835	943987230	Really Learn 100 Phrasal Verbs P (Oxford Dictionaries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good start for your students, on their own or in class.	Mastery of the so called &quot;phrasal verbs&quot; of English is one of the main factors that denotes a true, colloquial speaker of English. They are generally difficult for foreigners to learn, and especially difficult to learn well. &quot;Really learn 100 phrasal verbs&quot; is a great, working introduction to this obstacle to more natural conversational speech. This book is generally described as a self-instructional tool, and that it is! I have also found it very valuable in class with my own intermediate-advanced students. I am going to use it tonight, in fact! <br />How does it work? As the title suggests, it is not exhaustive. 100 verbs is a relatively easy bite to chew. Each verb selected is useful and very common. Each page explores a new verb (sometimes a verb will occur more than once where the meaning is distincly different) by first giving the meaning, then by asking the students to self-check themselves on the grammar of the verb, and following that the student is given one or two exercises to complete that use the newly acquired verb in context. Finally, a footnote is given with some verbs where a useful item of related vocabulary is included. For example (and I can't remember whether this one is actually in the book - it is just an illustration) the verb studied may be &quot;to drop out&quot;, and the footnote might give you something like &quot;a college drop-out&quot;.<br />This book is well worth buying if you are a student or an EFL teacher.	2003-11-06
US	48266571	R2GRT06BXWYMN0	0521457602	402817557	Using Russian: A Guide to Contemporary Usage	Books	5	34	34	N	N	An invaluable addition to your Russian bookshelf!	I don't want you to sit here and read the same words of high praise and book description that other reviewers have covered because I endorse all of it! Even with a degree in Russian I am finding a wealth of important and interesting information in &quot;Using Russian&quot;. The level is truly advanced but would also be fitting for an intermediate learner. There is a new point I wish to add, however. If you have a grammar book already, such as &quot;A Comprehensive Russian Grammar&quot; by T.Wade, or a similar book, then don't be persuaded just to pass &quot;Using Russian&quot; off as just another grammar that you don't need because you have one already. You will, no doubt, find overlap and repetition of some of the information in your regular grammar, but &quot;Using Russian&quot; goes way beyond it too, believe me! It is about effective usage of the language as well as just looking at declensions and conjugations which is what you get in your regular grammar.	2002-11-23
US	48266571	R246D7TOJ52S8I	0864426518	981830868	Lonely Planet Indonesian Phrasebook, Fourth Edition	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A pretty good phrasebook	If you are going to Indonesia and you feel you need a language guide, but you are not inclined to study the language by means of a graduated text book, you might like to consider this. You do get a very limited section on how the language works (ie grammar) but not enough to be really useful. What you do get of great value are subject grouped word lists and phrases that even include some of the colloquial language that you will encounter whilst on your travels.<BR>However, I believe that this little book grows in usefulness if you are studying/have studied the basic language and you need something to enlarge your vocabulary and boost your communication power in Bahasa Indonesia. The word lists can be a great help in filling in the gaps that some basic courses might necessarily have left in vocaublary while aiming to teach you to use the structures of the language. In this way, this phrasebook can be very useful.<BR>An Indonesian friend of mine who saw the cultural information in the book said that the author has definitely spent a lot of time in the country and has really done his homework! Some language courses completely neglect cultural information while they are concentrating on language (such as &quot;Colloquial Indonesian&quot; by Routledge) so in addition to the extra vocabulary, the cultural inforamtion you find here could really make a difference to your trip, as it is very easy for an unsuspecting westerner to make cultural gaffs and end up looking &quot;sombong&quot;. <BR>In short, if you just want a travel phrasebook and cultural guide, then this is a good choice.	2001-12-09
US	48266571	R3POC3WJULCCXD	0517702371	534150251	Ultimate Russian: Advanced: Cassette/Book Package (Living Language Ultimate Courses)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Real advanced Russian.	There are few truly advanced courses around for languages, but Living Language has done a superb job of this pack! The text book is jam-packed with useful information as well as real, situational Russian that you could conceivably use in Russia, or in dealing with Russians who may be visiting your home country. And, frankly, for what you get, the price is very reasonable. Well done to Living Language for both quality and accessibility!  To get the most out of the course, you should really get the full package. You can't learn a language effectively without tapes, and the tapes you have here are clear, and promote using the language in dialogues. As a graduate of Russian I use these tapes to keep my Russian alive and even to expand upon it in certain areas, such as computing, a section for which is included in the course.  However, while the taped sections are good for building and drilling  speech patterns, I feel that too much freedom has been taken in some of the translations. While it is good to make the English as natural as the Russian, there are some occasions where, although the meaning has been conveyed, the translation is unnecassarily inaccurate which could be confusing to a student conducting a higher level and exacting course of study. Interpreting can allow such things, as &quot;interpreting&quot; implies. It means that you can relay meaning while not necassarily using a word for word translation. written translation is a precise discipline, and, if you using this text at a univerity where there are translation exams, you should bear the above points in mind, as word for word accuracy is, wherever possible, required in university translation exams. I don't need to restate the fact that there are spelling mistakes in the text and discrepancies between the book and the tape. It is a great shame that Living Language books did not do the editing required to eliminate such issues, as it makes the course and tha company look sloppy when I don't think they are. But that said, I still recommend this course.	2001-05-20
US	48266571	R2R56SYZ0IDQ5W	9579727236	817378840	Chiang's Practical Chinese Language Patterns, A Text Book for Self-Learners	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Depends on what you want and how dedicated you are.	This certainly looks like one of the best Chinese courses on the market today. For the price you get a text book and 18 cassettes. This is very reasonable considering that I have seen the same course advertised at an internet language bookstore for $245! Mr Chiang's enthusiasm and love of his language is evident, however, in my experience as a language teacher, the approach used is old fashioned and, in my opinion, more likely to deter the student from study than to promote his or her interest. The basis of the course seems to be a very slow build-up of the language. Firstly, even though Chinese script is included throughout the book, the first step you will have to take to get benefit from this is to learn the Chinese phonetic symbols at the start of the book. In my opinion, this is a totally unnecessary and incumbering exercise. Chinese is difficult! Obvious comment, I know, but why make it even more difficult that it is? As westerners learning Chinese it would be much more practical to use a romanized photetic system toi help with pronunciation of new words. The ultimate goal, of course, is to recognise the characters without the need for the phonetic representation, so having to learn the Chinese phonetic symbols beforehand creates an unavoidable stumbling block. OK, if you are studying advanced Chinese, in Chinese, at a university in China, then you might find the symbols useful but here, they are inappropriate. Secondly, when people take up a language they ususlly wish to be able to use what they have learnt as soon as possible. In some contexts, such as living abroard, this might even be a necessity. Therefore, you would expect the early chapters of a language course to focus on conversation and phrases you can use to communicate. That can be an important factor in motivating students to learn.  If you are the sort of person who would happily sit on a mountain top and contemplate your navel, then you might be one of the hardcore, dedicated students who wouldlike the approach of this course. Look at section three which deals with &quot;idioms and slang phrases&quot;. That is literally, all that the chapters of this section are made up of. There is the phrase and the translation. How interesting do you think it would be to learn a page of a telephone directory....you can judge how motivated you would be by that section by asking that question! There is no context for each idiom or phrase! The human mind likes context and association. That's how we learn best, but here it has been neglected. You learn a phrase and don't really know where or how to use it. I am not sure what Mr Chiang's intentions are regarding the teaching of grammar in the course. There are no grammar sections and explanations as such but there are early lessons dedicated to personal pronouns, and so on, so I am thinking that Mr Chiang is expecting the student to take on the grammar in a communicative way. This seems quite a modern way to do things considering the format of the course. And what are all the comparisons of character forms doing in the early chapters of the book? No disrespect intended to Mr Chiang, but as regards his expectations, he's got it all wrong! It would take students using this corse an eternity before they were able to use their Chinese. OK, so if you were to work through it diligently, you would acquire the characters as well as a good academic knowledge of the language, but let's face it, people want what works well and works fast. The modern way to learn a language is to use it! Though this course claims to be a self-leearning project, I don't think it is suitable for the majority of learners. This is a miserable way to learn. You may find this to be a good accompaniment to any course you are doing now. It is especially useful if you wish to learn Chinese characters and read Chinese as it is really written. The cassettes are clear and useful, and with translations in English on the tapes, you may find them useful for listeneing to in your car. But as a sole self-study aid, you might be better off with something else. I would recommend Living Language Ultimate Chinese.  I would dearly like to recommend this course as there has obviously been a great deal of thought and work involved in preparing it. maybe that's the problem - the concept and teaching style could be from a Chinese point of view, rather than a western one. To make a course that appeals to a specific audience, you first have to learn to think like your intended audience.  Please note that my review and rating focus on the teaching rationale of the course and not on the actual language content.	2001-05-09
US	48266571	R3TR8WSGWNRAOP	0789435845	976638268	Hugo Language Course: Japanese In Three Months (with Cassettes)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Recommendation from a language teacher.	I cannot recommend this book enough! If you are thinking of learning Japanese you may glance at this book, pass it up and go looking for the more recognised commercial courses. Don't! Admittedly, the title smacks of a gimmick &quot;...In Three Months&quot; but I don't think you are meant to take this literally, although with the right mindset you may be able to work your way through it in that time. This book used to be marketed under the title &quot;Japanese Simplified&quot; which may also be misleading and it certainly doesn't do this course justice. What do you get? In short, you get a useful 1000 or so word vocabulary which is, for the most part, presented in sentences rather than in word lists. All the basic, idiomatic grammar points are covered in a no-nonsense way. In fact, the focus is on grammar rather than on vocabulary. You learn the vocabulary through the example sentences in each grammar section. You get the chance to consolidate your knowledge with translation exercises, and finally, in each chapter you get a couple of idiomatic dialogues with language and culture notes. In short, I think this is the best course you could choose if you want to learn spoken Japanese and you are serious about it. That is an important point, because if you are serious, you will be motivated to work through the grammar. Don't fall into the trap of believeing you don't need grammar. To study a language properly you need the grammar.  If you want a book that will teach you the Japanese writing system then this book is not for you, although it does include an appendix with basic street signs etc, and hiragana. This is what the &quot;Simplified&quot; in the original title means. You will learn god spoken Japanese here. Finally, if you really want to study a language properly you need tapes, and HUGO provides! There is a four tape series with this book that I strongly recommend you buy, especially if you are studying on your own. The only negative comment I have to make is about the English announcer on the tapes. If the tapes are the same as the original version, then you will feel as though you are a little child being admonished by an old fashioned public school headmaster! I find it irritating the way the voice talks down to you but maybe HUGO have changed that for the version you see here. Still, all in all, a very good programe.	2001-04-06
US	48266571	R18CWP4A6I6E2X	0671898426	119806726	Giant Steps: Small Changes to Make a Big Difference	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Easy style, good ideas!	I always listen to Anthony Robbins tapes in the car. What I like about them is that his style is so easy to listen to. He is both engaging and informative. I think Giant Steps is a great addition to any self development programme you might be on or contempleting at the moment. There a lot of good tapes and books out there by various self-help authors, but what makes Robbins unique is that he not only tells you what to do, he tells you HOW to do it, and how to integrate it into your life. In Giant Steps, the bit I like the most is about self-talk and how it can a change in your self talk can lead to a change in your perceptions which can ultimately have the power to change a part of your interaction with people and your life. He tells you what to do then says do it for 10 days and see what heppens.	2001-04-01
US	48266571	R2UL9A4A2GU6FW	0415155290	348342153	Indonesian: A Comprehensive Grammar (Routledge Comprehensive Grammars)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An essential resource.	I know of no other Indonesian grammar books and I don't think you need another one if you have this! In its pages you will find a full description Indonesian that is complete and as easy to understand as possible while still retaining an academic perspective. Every feature of Indonesian is covered including an excellent description of the affixes that often pose a challenge to learners. All parts of speech are well addressed. Also included is a glossary of many grammatical terms that you may come accross in studying Indonesian. In fact I think some of them are unique to concepts of Indonesian (and Malay). I am still fairly new at Indonesian so another feature of this book I like is that the examples chosen use everyday words that you are likely to encounter in newspapers and just generally living in an Indonesian speaking environment. Well done on that score Mr Sneddon! If you are a serious student of Bahasa Indonesia then you would do well to have this book at your side. There seem to be so few resources for learning Indonesian but this is definitly a quality resource. One of the only drawbacks, but an understandable one considering the approach taken, is that the informal language that you are likely to hear in Indonesia is not covered. But what the heck! This is a grammar of university Indonesian after all. (Bythe way, if you want informal Indonesian I recommend &quot;Making Out In Indonesian&quot; by Pater Constantine.	2001-04-01
US	48266571	R2NEHOXZELIMCZ	067974617X	632046272	Grammar Smart (The Princeton Review)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Good review but less useful if you are starting from scratch	If you have been using English for a long time and you want to know why you are saying what you say, this can be a great guide. It is a no-nonsense book with a lively approach - well, as lively as an appoach can be when you are studying grammar! Not only do you get the explanations in an easy to use format but you also get regognition exercises for each point you are studying. In addition, I love the little tit-bits that are included from time to time. For example, one of the &quot;trivia quiz&quot; secions asks you to name a noun hat ends in -ly (-ly ususlly indicated an adverb). Can you name one? I can after reading &quot;Grammar Smart&quot;! I love to trot out a gem like that and look more intelligent than I am!  I think that calling this a grammar &quot;review&quot; is an accurate description. I am university educated and I am just using the book to brush up on a couple of things and making sure I know which part of speech is which. I would not recommend it for someone who may, for some reason, have had a disadvantehged education and would have to start from the beginning. For example, in one section, you are told, &quot;your ear should be able to tell the difference&quot;. Well, it should, but if you have grown up in an area where you are habitually bombarded with ungrammatical English, then that is whet your &quot;ear&quot; will tend to think of as the norm. But I like the idea in &quot;Grammar Smart&quot; - no rules for rule's sake. I heartily recommend this book and I intend to buy more books in the &quot;--- Smart&quot; series. Other good points are ideas on better style and dealing with recurring problem areas. Well done Princeton Review!	2001-04-01
US	48266571	R2BP2U5X8RGHZK	0631207570	962700527	A Comprehensive Russian Grammar (Blackwell Reference Grammars)	Books	4	43	45	N	N	Good but not advanced enough.	What no one has mentioned here yet is that there is a grammar workbook by the same author that acts as a companion to this grammar book. This was a recommended work when I was doing a degree in Russian. It is a good and thourough work on the Russian language that you will, undoubtedly, find useful. However, I think that there are some sections that really need more detail. First of all the (painful!) verbs of motion need more clarification and explanation in relation to the variations used by Russian speakers. There have been whole books written on verbs of motion so the little that has been devoted to it here is not enough in my opinion. There have been times in my own interaction with Russians when I have been corrected in my use of a verb of motion even though what I said was grammatically correct. We need to know when and where to use them. Secondly, the section on perfectives and imperfectives and the way affixes are used is just not advanced and thourough enough. If you are going to spend your money on a grammar book you want the full story, don't you? Examples used tend to be from Soviet/Russian press, which is Ok, but also from authors such as Chekhov. I think it would be better to stick to modern sources as much as possible instead of gining readers the idea that what they may be learning might be older style Russian. I think that all the examples will be perfectly OK in modern Russian, but I think you should consider the impression you give readers as well as the actual information. Still, a good book and a good combination if used with the grammar book.	2001-04-01
US	48266571	R1AT1HRVELCXZU	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Moans from a psuedo Brit...	...would be a more fitting title for this book. First of all, as a Brit, I really must apologise to American people for Bryson! When British people go on holiday some of them have a reputation for moaning about everything and just being bloody boring old whiners, and it looks as though Bryson has gone native! They always say that converts are the worst. Anyway, I have had this book for a couple of years but I have never been able to get through it. When I first started to read it I thought it was very funny and very observant. There are some very witty bits I have to admit! But with time I am becoming more and more disillusionsed with Bryson and from reading some of the reviews here I am beginning to see why. &quot;Notes...&quot; has its place on my desk at work and I occasionally delve into it, but it isn't going to be long before I launch it into the bin, I feel. What's wrong with it? Well, as it goes on it gets more and more boring and repetitive and it feels as though Bryson has run out of ideas, but on and on it goes. There are times too, when you feel as though he is just saying &quot;Look how funny I am! Aren't I the funny one?&quot;. Well, er yes and no! This is just self indulgence. Brysom thinks that we would all be interested in the converstions he has with his wife when he is on the toilet or what he had to eat and how much he had to pay for it. ZZZ I picked the book up today and came across one of Bryson's observations about a train-spotter he called &quot;The Severn Bore&quot;. Doesn't Bryson realise that HE is the bore? Also I have to agree with Lisa from Australia. You points about him being &quot;mean&quot; are perfectly justified. he never stop criticising people, making sarcastic remarks and just, basically, being an unpleasant old wind-bag. Now, if your edition, like mine, has a PICTURE of Bryson you will see that this scruffy, bespectacled, bearded, ugly, dirty-shoe wearing twit shouldn't say ANYTHING about ANYBODY! He looks like the sort of eccentric, scruffy, university philosophy lecturer type - you know the sort! So, Bryson, before you make one of your acrid observations about someone again, look in the mirror you pompous, self rightous twit!	2001-03-21
US	48266571	R1T8JV6HOFFH4S	2881245420	228180827	Suggestology (Psychic Studies)	Books	2	39	41	N	N	Useful this for quotes for a degree course...that's all!	A heavy university textbook style text full of graphs and goddledegook, if you ask me! There is actually very little on the methods of suggestopedy in this book. However it does cast a few doubts on the information presented in the 70's bestseller &quot;Superlearning&quot; by Ostrander and Schroeder whose techniques are supposed to be drawn from Lozanov's suggestopedia. If you are studying educational psycology you may find some use in this book  for your essays, but if you think you are in for an interesting read, think again. The main meat of this book is to report findings rather than techniques and it seems a bit fuzzy. There is a sample text for a unit of an Italian course in the appendix but there is no information on how to use this to gain benefit either as a teacher or a learner. frankly, if you haven't acquainted yourself with the ideas of suggestopedy from another source much of this book will be incomprehensible. Personally, I regret buying it. For a very specialised market. I don't recommend it.	2001-03-21
US	48266571	R3B3LSRW4TFV76	0804816255	801120674	Even Monkeys Fall from Trees (P): The Wit and Wisdom of Japanese Proverbs	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Not sure about this one...	I'd like to point out before I get into the meat of this review that I am not out to give the writer, sorry &quot;compiler&quot; a damn good ragging, but I am not at all sure this book is as good as you may have been led to believe by the reviewer before me. OK, first, the positive points. There are many well known proverbs in this book that will be useful to anyone who is interested and each proverb is illustrated by a cartoon. So far, so good.  However, I have found that a couple of these proverbs are unknown to my Japanese collegues who doubt their authenticity. For example, one of the proverbs that I liked when I first saw it is &quot;Ke bukai mono wa iro bukai&quot;. The translation being &quot;A hairy thing is a sexy thing&quot;. Well, if you know anything about Japanese culture and attitudes and believe me, I do! I work and live in Japan and I speak Japanese and know a lot of Japanese people, then you will know that body hair is considered to be dirty and repulsive. So how can there be a proverb like that? It stands to reason! Another example of an &quot;unknown&quot; proverb is &quot;He o hitte shiri tsubome&quot; which is supposedly a Japanese version of &quot;It's no use closing the stable doors after the horse has bolted&quot;. The Japanese version translates as &quot;It's no use scrunching up you buttocks after you have farted&quot;. This is more or less how it is translated in the book. It is an appropriate image, however no one has heard of that either! It is a proverb I like to use from time tio time in English but when I tested out the Japanese equivalent amongst friends, they just thought I was being rude. In fact the word &quot;he&quot; is a coarse word to use in Japanese. &quot;Onara&quot; is more aceptable, well, about as acceptable as talking about farts can be!!! When I have to explain a Japanese proverb to a Japanese person, I can only conclude that the proverb is erroneous to start with. I don't think this is a reliable book. If you get it then check out which proverbs are authentic with a native speaker so you don't end up looking stupid or intentionally rude.	2001-03-03
US	48266571	R1NRJESXUI03B9	0935166025	9546107	How to Learn a Foreign Language	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Good for the right audience.	I have read the book and have a little to say about it from two different perspectives. First of all, I think that everything Fuller says about learning languages is true and can be effectively applied by anyone learning a foreign language. Fuller talks about learning methodology, word groupings, mnemonics and use of the tape recorder as well as ways to increase vocabulary effectively. He uses actual examples taken from languages such as Turkish and Russian. I think the information contained here would be useful to someone who is serious about learning a language for whatever reason and who is approaching language learning for the first time. I think Fuller's presentation style is concise and clear too. That is the mark of a professional. However I think I should point out that if you have already studies a language to degree level, let's say, then you will already have figured out most of what Fuller is talking about already, if not all of it! I am not taking away from the value of the book when saying this because I think it is a good book for the inexperienced wannabe language master. But for people who are linguists it will only tell you what you already know.	2001-03-03
US	48266571	R29REAS30QWZJ8	0550105700	854970672	Chambers Concise Dictionary	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Definitely not the best.	Some people regard the Chambers as the definitive dictionary on the English language. I don't know why. I hear that it contains more technical words than most dictionaries but this is something I cannot verify, not needing any really technical vocabulary. However, over the years I have had need to use a Chambers and I have been disappointed by the lack of certain words that I needed. For example, I could not find &quot;non sequitur&quot; but then again, my edition is older than the one shown. On the other hand, if you thinking of splashing out on a really good dictionary I strongly recommend the Collins. In a word, it is superb. It is jam-packed with encyclopedic information as well as basic word entries which is something you will find immesurably useful, not to mention your children if they are at still at school. The Chambers is OK for general use, but if you want the best, go for Collins.	2001-02-17
US	48266571	R28ALFX64YJYRO	0550105700	854970672	Chambers Concise Dictionary	Books	3	0	5	N	N	If you want the best dictionary go for Collins.	Some people regard Chamber's as the definitive dictionary for the English language. I can't imagine why!!! OK, so it has a few more technical words in it than some dictionaries but it misses out some frequently used expressions. In fact, even though it is an old edition I have, the Latin phrase &quot;non sequitur&quot; was nowhere to be found. I remember another time I looked for a word and it wasn't in. Today I looked up &quot;Catherine the Great&quot; for a reason that will not interest the reader. Yes, I know you are going to say &quot;It's a dictionary, not a history book&quot;. I'm coming to that...bear with me. I also have a Collins dictionary which tells me everything I want to know, the entries are more detailed than Chambers and the Collins is encyclopedic too. In a word, it is superb. You can find &quot;Catherine the Great&quot; if you really want to alond with enormous amounts of other useful information. If you are going to splash out on a dictionary, then I would recommend Collins and not Chambers.	2001-02-17
US	48266571	R1R6JA480DK90V	0550105700	854970672	Chambers Concise Dictionary	Books	3	1	5	N	N	If you want the best dictionary go for Collins.	Some people regard Chamber's as the definitive dictionary for the English language. I can't imagine why!!! OK, so it has a few more technical words in it than some dictionaries but it misses out some frequently used expressions. In fact, even though it is an old edition I have, the Latin phrase &quot;non sequitur&quot; was nowhere to be found. I remember another time I looked for a word and it wasn't in. Today I looked up &quot;Catherine the Great&quot; for a reason that will not interest the reader. Yes, I know you are going to say &quot;It's a dictionary, not a history book&quot;. I'm coming to that...bear with me. I also have a Collins dictionary which tells me everything I want to know, the entries are more detailed than Chambers and the Collins is encyclopedic too. In a word, it is superb. You can find &quot;Catherine the Great&quot; if you really want to alond with enormous amounts of other useful information. If you are going to splash out on a dictionary, then I would recommend Collins and not Chambers.	2001-02-17
US	48266571	RQKY4OJEATTG9	4770026285	740720288	Kodansha's Basic English-Japanese Dictionary (Ide International Joint Research Project Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	What's there is good - very good, but it's way too basic.	I think this is the only dictionary of its type available....It is an excellent resourse regarding for using words in context. It contains both Roman and Japanese script types and adequate examples for each entry. That is the way a really good foreign language dictionary presents data. In addition there are word lists pertaining to specific fields such as medical words (but very basic) and science. One of my favorite features about the book is the word list in Japanese at the back that will help you if you need to look up a word in Japanese and find a meaning.  However, I am far from being satisfied with it. For me it falls short for the following reasons: (1) When you buy a dictionary you want something that will give you the words you need when you need them. If you buy this thinking you have all you need, then you're going to be in for a disappointment. It just doesn't contain enough regularly used words. I have gone to this dictionary so many times to look something up just to find that is is not included. For example, the word &quot;violence&quot; is not included. That is not a lollapalooza of a word, is it? But it's not there. I know you have to be selective when writing a &quot;basic&quot; dictionary, but it means that you need another dictionary with you as well if you are a serious student of the language in any way. Secondly, and this is tied in with the first point, considering that it doesn't contain a lot of words, the price (especially if you buy it in Japan) is rather steep. I think it is a bit like a &quot;toy&quot; dictionary. If Kodansha were to go all the way and produce a comprehensive dictionary in this style, then you would really have something!!!	2001-02-17
US	48266571	R3D950OSJSP1IZ	0671900196	720707123	Reflections for Highly Effective People	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Good ideas but difficult presentation style	This is not an easy tape to listen to. You really have to sit down with it and study it to get all the points it is making. I think that a lot of what he says is common sense but in addition there are also other interesting concepts that may be of use to business people and families with troubled teens. What I would criticise this tape for is the way the ideas are presented. It feels a little like being in a seminar given by a professor of psycology rather than a tape meant for all. It is not straight forward. The concepts seem too abstract which doessn't help as many of them are presented through metaphore like &quot;sharpening the saw&quot;, for instance. And in the same section as &quot;sharpening the saw&quot; there is an anecdote about smallpocks innoculations that doesn't seem to fit unless, as I say, you really make the effort with the tape. You can't listen to it effectively in the car, for instance. &quot;Well don't, then!&quot; you may be saying, but if you campare Covey's style to someone like Anthony Robbins, you will find that Robbins is just so much easier to understand, and the ideas are presented in a tangible way, rather than like a cryptic crossword. Still, there are some good, new things in the tape, and that is what you really want, isn't it? I didn't like the fact that as well as Covey, there are two other speakers taking it in turns to read the book. Why? What is the purpose? OK, one more thing. Why do people have to quote Shakespeare are though he were the authority on everything? In this tape Covey says things like &quot;Shakespeare put it this way&quot;. So what? Why doesn't anyone have the guts to tell the truth? Bill Shakes is BORING!!! And yes I DO understand it. But it is totally out of place on a tape like this. I find anyone who reverts to quoting Shakespeare very suspect. Quote Plato, quote The Buddha, quote Annie Oakley if you want but PLEASE! Spare us the Bill Shakes!	2001-02-10
US	48266571	R2TKXFJS4OGU22	1881904008	315080139	Learning to Learn: Maximizing Your Performance Potential	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Life-long learning, not factual learning.	This is an easy book to read. Ideas are presented in a lucid style. I think there are some good ideas in this book but I think you should be aware before you buy the book that it is referring to learning skills and new habit patters, such as those needed to curb overeating (which is well explained) rather than learning facts like languages and formulae. I think that the message is more about life long learning, which may be what you want. You will learn about &quot;ganus&quot; and attitude and excitement in learning. I think that it could be an interesting resource to have in your collection of self-help books, but I am not going head over heels about it!	2001-02-10
US	48266571	R1OG6N0LO1RLCZ	0722512112	741944847	Double Your Learning Power: Master the Techniques of Successful Memory and Recall	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Positive techniques but some negative vibes	Description: I like the way this book progresses. The first section deals with concepts and research results about memory. This is good and informative. It reads a bit like a lay-man's version of a scientific report. It is matter-of-fact. The following three chapters provide really useful memory techniques that are easy to apply. Good Points: Numerous applications of the techniques are included. I think that the author made a really good job of that, and he never claims that what you learn will give you any more than it does. Students and those preparing for exams might find particular interest in the section on understanding what exam questions are actually asking you to do and how to answer them. Bad Points: Whether the author realises it there is some potentially dangerous negative suggestion I noticed in the book. For example, in the chapter entitled &quot;Why we forget&quot;, the author cites an example of someone who was an authority on fish. He writes &quot;It is said, however, that every time he learned the name of a person he forgot the name of a fish&quot;. What utter rubbish. The author should know better than to give people the impression that learning will take something away, which is what, in my opinion, this does. Dudley should also be aware that other researchers claim that the mind is almost limitless. I have found other examples in the book of the author &quot;playing it safe&quot; and not really suggesting that great memory feats are possible. Read other books. Some people claim they are.  Conclusion: Even though I find some of what the author writes negative and condtadictory (He says in another chapter it is &quot;Out of the question to improve the brain's sheer power of retention&quot;), the techniques he presents and the way he explains them is very useful. My advice would be to buy the book if it appeals to you and learn the techniques - they will benefit you, but make a concious effort to believe in your own potential for memory expansion while doing so. Belief in improving things such as IQ and memory is a very sticky area. You need all the positive input you can get.	2001-01-24
US	48266571	RU5Y5ASH8DK7T	0834802503	586043076	Japanese Street Slang	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Is this written by a dirty little boy with a filthy mind?	I have to echo some of the other reviewers' comments and say that some of my Japanese collegues have never heard a few of the phrases in this book. I did find some interesting phrases in this book that I could not get from a dictionary. But one thing has to be said: this book is mostly just a collection of vulgarity and obscenity. I wouldn't recommend it, even for that. You might as well just go and buy a porn mag.	2001-01-19
US	48266571	R22JIVM1Y5D7XT	490073702X	343861068	Making Out in Indonesia (Making Out Books)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	This is the only book of its kind - and is good as such.	This book is what it claims to be - a guide to the way Indonesian is really spoken. But there isn't really a lot of language contained in the book. It is not a substitute for a text book or a phrase book, but it can add nicely to what you are already doing withthe language. It includes a brief grammar and pronunciation section atthe beginning, however, it does not indicate in the text the difference in the the pronunciation of &quot;e&quot; which is unpredictable. Also, I was very surprised to see that the author has omitted the common slang words for girl and boy &quot;cewek&quot; and &quot;cowok&quot; respectively. On reading some of the other reviews, you may getthe feeling that this book is going to get you into trouble if you use the phrases. It is made very clear which phrases will get you into a fight and which are obscene, so it is not really a problem. You can use a lot of the phrases and sound natural. I would say that about two thirds of the phrases can be used without a problem and the other third are there for your amusement. Furthermore, you can buy this book in the knowledge that the information contained therein is correct. This is something that, having read the reviews of Constantines's other books, and through personal experience, is not always the case.	2001-01-19
US	48266571	R1TLPQM2DFRU1K	0671315706	875836457	Chinese (Mandarin) (Pimsleur Basic Language Program)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Great language taster but this pack is not a real course.	A lot of language courses over the past few years have laboured a gimmick of &quot;learn so-and-so language the way you learnt English as a child&quot;. Well I for one wouldn't want to spend the first year of learning a new language making gurgling sounds. In fact, those methods were just really more of the same. However, I believe that this is really ground-breaking! I bought this pack to see what all the fuss was about witht he Pimsleur method and I can honestly say that I have been impressed with the teaching style. This course in particular pays a lot of attention to the production of correct Chinese tones and the tapes are very clear in most cases. I found that I was able to assimilarte language in a way I hadn't before. It felt more natural that any other method I have used. I am a language teacher and hobby linguist, by the way. The method builds up sentences in your mind in a way that teaches you the structure but leaves you with a feeling that you have actually done the figuring out yourself. Having said that, I did find that still having to repeat the same phrases in lesson three that were used in lesson one a little boring. Also, this pack is a very reasonable price, but the amount you will learn is severly limited. If you consider that the method is based upon repitition of words and phrases to a great extent you will see just how little 8 tapes can really offer you. In fact, I would go so far as to say that if you think you will even learn a useful amount from it, then think again! As a way to break the ice with a language, it is fine! I heartily recommend the technique. If you really want to learn Chinese with Pimsleur, then you should realuy go for the longer 30 tape courses. There are three levels in all. I would if I had the money, but sadly they are so expensive only people with money to throw around would be able to afford them. Finally, I think that this system would be great to use in conjunction with a regular language course. It could help totake the part of the live conversation element that so many people feel they cannot learn without (I disagree, actually!). Psycologically, this speaking style method can really help to prepare you for confident conversation, even though you may never have spoken to Chinese people in their native tongue before. On the whole, excellent, but content extremely limited. (BUT, this has a $50 certificate off a regular course inside it - only applies to USA, though, so it's probably worth it anyway!).	2001-01-17
US	48266571	R8GY4TGK1WMZH	0804816859	11052050	Guide to Writing Kanji & Kana, Book 1: A Self-Study Workbook for Learning Japanese Characters	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great method!	This, in combination with part 2, constitues a great way to learn towrite and recognise kana and kanji. The way each character is writtenis fully explained in stroke order and there is ample practicespace. One of the great features of this book is the way it presentsthe characters in combinations with other characters which also givesthe student a way to build vocabulary, and quite considerably if youis assiduous, I might add!  What is more, the characters in theaforementioned vocabulary sections are presented in conjunction withcharacters you have met before! All characters are broken down introtheir separate elements too. There is an adequate index at the back ofeach book too. Visually, the book is good too. The large format makeslearning feel more comfortable. There is only one drawback I can findand that is that the kanji are not presented in sentences which canhelp you to glean context, but you can't have everything! The twovolume format allows you to decide whether you want to continue adeeper study of kanji... On the whole, an excellent book! I wouldrecommend this to serious kanji master wannabes!	2000-11-11
US	48266571	R36APIFER6EMJ4	0804820384	152695200	A Guide to Remembering Japanese Characters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great explanations! Useless mnemonics!	I think that this is a great book to have by your side if you are studying Japanese. The explanations of how the characters were formed are interesting to read but I cannot say that the explanations really helped me learn the character. By extension, the mnemonics given as a learning aid are ridiculous! Ridiculous can be an aid to memory in some cases but I found the mnemonics useless too. The only way to learn is to just sit down and do it. The large characters come in brush form for some reason??? The characters also appear in printed form and, which I believe to be a great strength of this book, they also appear in conjunction with other characters (referenced by number) which can really help the student to learn vocabulary. There are around 3 or 4 such vocabulary entries for each kanji. On the whole, though, I have to say that this book is invaluable as an aid to my study of Japanese. But if you look at the book and think it will make the study of kanji any easier than other books  then think again! Whichever way you look at it, kanji learning relies on memory power. The mnemonics I have complained so much about, however, are just an addition to each entry, so don't let that take away from the value of this book! I gave it 5 stars after all!	2000-10-21
US	48266571	R3NNN01YFAZHDS	0962813702	58957897	Kanji Pict-O-Graphix: Over 1,000 Japanese Kanji and Kana Mnemonics	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Wonderful for learning kana!	At first glance this book looks like the way to solve the problem of learning those tedious kanji in Japanese! It looks like a completely NEW way to do it! But I am not sure it is. Firstly, I have to say that some of the pictures are good for learning the meaning in relation to the shape of the kanji, like the one on the front...but what about the ON and KUN readings? They still have to be learned somehow! They are included in the book, but the kanji are not placed in any context that might help you relate them to vocabulary. This is an interesting innovation which is, I daresay, helpful, but not definitive. However, I can say with my hand on my heart that Mr Rowley took a lot of the pain out of learning the kana with the ingenious drawings he came up with (even if the pronunciation is ostensibly American!).	2000-10-21
US	48266571	R3EPREJY42Y2HO	0844237981	886618956	Teach Yourself Indonesian Complete Course	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good, academic approach for the serious student.	This is a traditional style language learning manual. If you like an academic approach to learning then you will like this but I am not sure that it is well suited to those who wish to gain a useful knowledge in a short time for a trip. I do think that it is good for presenting grammar and structure to students who are serious about learning the language properly, maybe to read books and newspapers rather than to say just &quot;Hello&quot; and &quot;Do you sell disposable razors&quot;. That this is an older text is apparant from reading the first couple of chapters which present words such as &quot;hunter&quot;, &quot;poisonous&quot; and &quot;tiger&quot;, which, although not immediately useful, are in keeping with the type of language learning approach of 20-30 years ago (ie with the focus being on grammar rather than vocabulary). A modern approach begins with useful expressions and high frequency words in keeping with current language trends. I personally like this book and the way it presents structure in a no nonsense academic way, but I am a linguist. For the non-linguist it may seem a little dull or hard-going. There is a high degree of straight learning (ie with no games or &quot;fun&quot; activities) that needs to go on to progress through each chapter which means that the responsibility to learn is entirely with the student. Explanations are full and clear but not unnecessarily overblown. The pronunciation section in chapter one is also very clear. I think that this would be great used in conjunction with a phrase book with tapes to get grammar as well as vocabulary. But if you want an immediate knowledge for use on your trip, you may be disappointed with this book.	2000-10-21
US	48266571	R263FD6U6JY6GN	1559270446	850212527	Learn How To Learn	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Read this before you buy!	I wish to say first of all that I am a great advocate of the superlearning  techniques, but I have to say that this audio is basically just the same  old stuff regurgitated using different examples! By all means, learn about  the technique and use it, but i would recommend the  &quot;Superlearning&quot; book or the boxed set. This tape is enjoyable to  listen to, but it has virtually nothing new. In fact i can say that, having  read several books by te authors which are good, I have to say, I found  just ONE piece of new and useful information on this cassette. The fact  that I cannot recall it now while writing this review probably demonstrates  that it was nothing so life-changing after all! For newcomers, it does give  an overview of the technique which could probably enable you to put it to  use (which is why I rate it as a 3) but if you are superlearning initiated  already, you have nothing to buy this tape for!	2000-09-17
US	48266571	R16PAN1WFQTXGN	0679437436	642779359	Superlearning 2000: New, Triple-Fast Ways You Can Learn, Earn, and Succeed in the 21st Century	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Abridged? You're telling me!!!	Don't buy this tape! If you are going to spend your money then buy the  book &quot;Superlearning&quot; instead. While I am a great fan of mind  expanding techniques I would say that this tape is just  &quot;interesting&quot; to listen to. It does not tell you the techniques  and I only found a little value from it rather than a lot. I already had a  copy of &quot;Superlearning&quot; which, incidentally, I found very good,  so I thought that I would just get the audio of this one to listen to in  the car to brush up on new wrinkles. I am not saying that there is anything  wrong with the superlearning technique, I am just saying don't buy this if  you want to learn about it!	2000-09-17
US	48266571	R1L1W0ZNUYOHPJ	0375705783	319472554	The Children of Men	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Yawn!	A good book if you like to be aware of an author using lots of uncommon words when an ordinary one will do. Good for vocabulary expansion. Story -  Ha ha! Don't bother! At one point the book had me turning pages fast and  reading with real interest, but that was it! The edition I read had a  review on the back &quot;A most tender love story&quot; Where? Characters  did not come over well especially towards the end of the book. It did seem  good at the beginning as far as the ideas of a story go, but it feels as  though the author is fast running out of both ideas and interest by the  end. I only read this book because I was bored and there was nothing else  to do. That's the only time I would recommend you to pick it up. If your  interested, go and get a copy from the library, but save your hard-earned  for something else!	2000-09-17
US	48266571	R2744WC2J88H6Y	0789435845	976638268	Hugo Language Course: Japanese In Three Months (with Cassettes)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This book does the job!	This book is one that I have found very useful for learning the language,  especially with the cassettes. It is a no-nonsense approach that provides  many sentences to illustrate the context and meaning of a word or  structure. Although the vocabulary may be considered limited by some people  I think that it constitues a great approach to learning the spoken language  seriously. It can give a great head-start before or whilst working on the  script from other sources and by the end of the course the student can  expect to have a reasonable working knowledge of the language.	2000-09-08
