US	48275179	R1PEAATI7D1H8C	068813789X	202609616	A Mouthful of Air: Language, Languages...Especially English	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Mouthful of Wonderful	This is the ultimate book for someone like me, an amateur linguist and lover of literature.  While Burgess covers some territory with which I am intimately familiar (and makes some minor factual errors), I can't but recommend the book whole-heartedly.<br /><br />Aimed at British readers (noticeable only in the sections on phonology, or the production of sounds), Burgess gives a crash course on linguistics and language in a tone that is at once entertaining and informative, bookish without being pedantic.  He argues persuasively for the teaching of the IPA (International Phonetic Alphabet) in schools and, near the end of the book, even ventures into how the study of the components of langugae can inform the reading of modern poetry and prose.<br /><br />While it will help for a reader to be familiar with some basics of linguistics (phonology more than syntax, morphology or grammar), it is not required.  I couldn't help wishing, as I read the book, that it had been my introduction to the subject.  After learning about how speech sounds are produced by the lips, teeth and tongue, and learning about how they are categorized scientifically and recorded in various alphabets, Burgess plunges us into perhaps the greatest linguistic development of the last two centuries, the reconstruction of Proto-Indo-European, the language from which sprang Greek, Latin, Russian, Sanskrit, German, English, Spanish, French, Swedish, Persian and so many others.  The miracle of being able to find instant cognates in other languages once you know a few simple rules of sound changes is superbly demonstrated by Burgess here.<br /><br />Burgess also discusses two non-Indo-European languages, each in its own individual chapter: Malay & Japanese.  His knowledge of Malay, formed by his longtime residence in Indonesia, is very deep and he was able to give a great deal of interesting information to a Malay layman like me.  His Japanese chapter is from the perspective of an outsider with limited knowledge, and I found it less informative but still interesting.<br /><br />Finally, Burgess turns his cannons on the canon of English literature, and its medium, the English language.  His jaunt through the very tortured history of English is extremely well done.  This is the sort of non-fiction writing that manages to put you at the calm center of a whirlwind of historical and literary events.  I compare it, not lightly, with the essays of Jorge Luis Borges in its lucidity and magisterial effect.<br /><br />Like Borges, Burgess writes about the metaphysics of translation and the essentiality of reading poetry in its native tongue.  Where the two great writer-scholars differ is on the subject of James Joyce, regarding whom Burgess manages to slip in a very convincing apology.  Burgess' explication of a passage from FINNEGAN'S WAKE is no doubt a preview from his book length treatment of the same subject in RE JOYCE.<br /><br />Fan of Burgess' fictions, especially A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, will find much of interest in this book, which gives up his secrets of language manipulation so lightly and with such goodwill.  Burgess, told he had a terminal illness, was motivated to be quite prolific as a writer, and there are arguments to be made for which of his books are worth reading first.  Not having read them all, I will not speculate that this is among them.<br /><br />All I can say is that, for readers like myself who have an abiding interest in language and literature, time reading this book is time well-spent.s informative but still interesting.    Finally, Burgess turns his cannons on the canon of English literature, and its medium, the English language.  His jaunt through the very tortured history of English is extremely well done.  This is the sort of non-fiction writing that manages to put you at the calm center of a whirlwind of historical and literary events.  I compare it, not lightly, with the essays of Jorge Luis Borges in its lucidity and magisterial effect.    Like Borges, Burgess writes about the metaphysics of translation and the essentiality of reading poetry in its native tongue.  Where the two great writer-scholars differ is on the subject of James Joyce, regarding whom Burgess manages to slip in a very convincing apology.  Burgess' explication of a passage from FINNEGAN'S WAKE is no doubt a preview from his book length treatment of the same subject in RE JOYCE.    Fan of Burgess' fictions, especially A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, will find much of interest in this book, which gives up his secrets of language manipulation so lightly and with such goodwill.  Burgess, told he had a terminal illness, was motivated to be quite prolific as a writer, and there are arguments to be made for which of his books are worth reading first.  Not having read them all, I will not speculate that this is among them.    All I can say is that, for readers like myself who have an abiding interest in language and literature, time reading this book is time well-spent.	2005-06-27
US	48275179	RFN3KEXSSFQYQ	0892367024	316570936	Gods and Heroes in Art (Guide to Imagery Series)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Mythology and the art that celebrates it	I first saw this book for sale at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for way more than I could afford.  Thank goodness for Amazon.  This full-color, art-filled guide to Gods and Heroes (including characters from the epics of Homer) has to be one of my favorite books on the shelf.<br /><br />Each subject gets at least a short caption explaining the major myths surrounding him or her, then one or more of the world's great paintings protraying an episode from the myth, with short but excellent captions explaining features of the painting and symbols that identify the God or Hero.  Of course Art History majors will find this book irresistable -- but I think most people with any kind of interest in art or Greek and Roman mythology will too.<br /><br />Case in point: I showed this book to an IT guy I work with and he was so impressed by it he immediately went online and ordered two copies, one for himself and one for a young cousin he knew would love it.  I know I would've loved to have it as a kid, when I was in that phase where I was deep into Greek mythology and Homeric tales.  It also would've made field trips to the museum a lot more interesting too, since half the fun is taking what you've learned and applying it: \\"That must be Athena.  See the spear, and the shield and the helmet.  Cool.  Hey, that one was in the book!\\"<br /><br />Or something like that.  I also plan to check out the other books in the series: Old Testament Figures in Art, Gospel Figure in Art and Saints in Art.  I'm not as much into Christian iconography, but if those books are half as cool as this one is, I'll really enjoy them.  5 big stars out of 5!	2004-08-22
US	48275179	RN2S6ENQJOXMA	080215171X	959522728	Reunion and Dark Pony: Two Plays	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Two Fascinating Early Shorts	Before Mamet was Mamet, with the staccato dialogue and repetitive dialogue, and before he got knee-deep into genre writing and film-making, these two plays were written.<br /><br />REUNION (1M 1F, 43 pgs and multiple scenes) is the story of a father re-establishing contact with his estranged daughter.  It is written in a sort of blank verse which is possibly what caused Edith Olvier to praise it in The New Yorker as \\"a poem for two voices -- a distinguished and remarkable one.\\"  It is certainly distinguished from Mamet's later work, the plot as it is having very little forward momentum.  But it is quite moving and excellent and a great soft introduction for actors who want to learn to 'speak Mamet.'<br /><br />DARK PONY (1M 1childF, 10 pgs) is another father/daughter story and possibly the simplest play I've ever read.  It seems to be informed by Bruno Bettleheim's ideas about the power of stories told to children set forth in THE USES OF ENCHANTMENT, a book that Mamet has acknowledged as having great influence on him.  The story is this: as the father and daughter drive home (from where, we don't know), he passes the time by telling her a fairy-tale-like story about a handsome brave and the eponymous pony.  The subtext of the tale is: everything will be okay.  Like I said, it is a simple play, but I imagine it can be quite moving in performance.<br /><br />Longtime fans of Mamet will want to read this to see a completely different side of the maestro; Mamet virgins will find this collection an easy way to get into Mamet.  Those in between might prefer to work their way through the AMERICAN BUFFALOs and SPEED-THE-PLOWs before turning back to the start of it all.	2004-08-22
US	48275179	R17PWGB006548Y	0374502609	57112088	Imitations	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The must-have collection of translations	Robert Lowell has had dramatic upswings and downswings in his reputation as a poet.  Right now, thanks to the release of his COLLECTED POEMS, edited by Frank Bidart, he is experiencing another upswing.<br /><br />What has never suffered in esteem is this collection, IMITATIONS, the most influencial of its type since Ezra Pound's TRANSLATIONS.  Lowell has, in his own words, \\"been reckless with literal meaning, and labored hard to get the tone.\\"  As Pasternak said, in poetry, the tone is everything.  Hence the title: imitations, not translations.<br /><br />Of course, I know many of the originals of these and Lowell has not been reckless, at least not by my standards.  Instead he has (often, but not always) taken the translation one step beyond the normal conversion and internalized the poems to himself and his own experiences.  A colossal trick of ego?  Perhaps.  \\"All my originals are important poems,\\" he claims in his introduction.  As if to dance upon the grave of Western poetry, the first imitation condenses THE ILIAD into 46 lines.  But Lowell is much more respectful from there, and earns his faithfulness to the original poets in his own unique way.<br /><br />I think he really has succeeded in making poems that equal the originals with a high percentage.  He has also put his unmistakeable pissmark on them.  George Steiner called them \\"creative echoes.\\"  Whatever they are, love 'em or hate 'em, they are a must read for all poets and translators, a sort of gauntlet thrown down upon the heads of Homer, Sappho, Heine, Villon, Baudelaire, Rilke, Montale, Pasternak et al.  How should one go about translating any literature?  This is one of the best points of departure.	2004-08-22
US	48275179	R1K374H7QFT83I	0738207853	460075832	The Associated Press Guide To Punctuation	Books	4	53	54	N	N	Efficient and entertaining, but slim for my personal taste	Written with lively and direct prose, Rene J. Cappon's guide to punctuation succeeds in being a useful resourse for the busy journalist.  No reader need fear about getting bogged down in the finer points of periods.  If such a situation threatens to occur, Capon is quick to suggest a workaround.  This leaves the stickiest questions even stickier, a real prickle for someone as persnickety as me.  But for the journalist, or journalism student, I heartily recommend it.<br />To those looking for a deeper understanding of punctuation, I caution against this slim tome.  Organized into seventeen chapters by punctuation, some of them no more than a half of a page ('The Ampersand') and some as many as sixteen ('The Comma'), the AP GUIDE TO PUNCTUATION lacks the philosophical depth and historical background of recent bestseller EATS, SHOOTS, &amp; LEAVES as well as the dry grammar books of days past.  The examples, while fun, are not nearly as comprehensive as one expects in any book that bills itself as a reference.<br />By way of example, here is the entire entry for Irregular Plurals under 'The Apostrophe':<br />---<br />Irregular plurals also take the apostrophe: &lt;i&gt;children's hour, women's rights, gentlemen's traditions, men's club&lt;/i&gt;, and so do nouns that are the same in singular: &lt;i&gt;the single moose's antlers, the deer's track, the two corps' travels.&lt;/i&gt;  The apostrophe stays whether the meaning is singular or plural.<br />---<br />No mention is made that it is preferable to disambiguate the singular and plural in such cases.  Especially in journalistic writing, where clarity and simplicity are the twin grails of good style.<br />A dedicated journalist might prefer a true grammar of the English language or the complete and comprehensive AP STYLE BOOK.  While they may be dry, they will certainly go a good deal further in answering the questions that arise in all aspects of writing.	2004-05-02
US	48275179	R2UIEMR9UDGUNI	1559361379	463379344	A Dybbuk: and Other Tales of the Supernatural	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great play and some interesting ancillary material	If Harold Bloom, in his afterword to the play, is to be believed, Tony Kushner has taken great liberties in adapting this 'classic of Yiddish theater.'  Unfamiliar with the source material, I can only comment on how wonderful Kushner's version is.<br />A DYBBUK is the story of a gifted rabbinical student named Chonen who begins dabbling in the mystical text of the Kabbalah.  He seeks to use it to prevent the arranged marriage of the girl he is in love with, Leah.  Instead, it causes him to die and to inhabit her body.  What follows is a wonderful supernatural investigation as to why Chonen has become 'a dybbuk' and how to seperate him from Leah without killing her.  I really enjoyed it.<br />I'm a Kushner fan, and that's what led me here.  I thoroughly admired what he did in freely adapting Pierre Cornielle's L'ILLUSION COMIQUE into THE ILLUSION.  This DYBBUK another triumph of translation.  As a goy (a non-Jew), I had no problem following the parts of the play that delved into Chassidic (their spelling) culture and Jewish law.<br />Speaking of translation, several other short stories by -- and folk tales collected by -- S. Ansky are included.  They are interesting and provide a sort of background to the play.  They are bittersweet in that most of them are joyful and about songs, but they are also final traces of a European Jewish culture that, after the terrors of Hitler, can never exist as it once did.<br />The stories are only a few pages each and read as if they were originally written in English, which is the best you can ask of a translation.  Two are in trocaic tetrameter.  One is a take off on the book of Revelations.  Many of them deal with the origin of songs, or legends about Baal Shem Tov.<br />But the play is the main thing.  It's a great story and Kushner overlays it with philosophical and theological dimensions that will please fans of ANGELS IN AMERICA.  For those interested in Yiddish theater, and those who are fans of Kushner, I wholeheartedly recommend A DYBBUK.  5/5 stars.mmend A DYBBUK.  5/5 stars.	2004-04-21
US	48275179	R38FL4AC3FCYHE	055375663X	982570116	Voice of the Poet: American Wits: Ogden Nash, Dorothy Parker, Phyllis McGinley	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Funny and fascinating	In this new CD-update of the Voice of the Poet series, we get three poets instead of the normal one.  Each of these poets could, of course, fill a whole CD.  But the selections are balanced (especially since editors were confined to what happened to exist in the archives from which these readings were pulled).  I venture to guess there will be at least one poem from each of them that you will find amusing.<br />I was more familiar with Parker and especially Nash, two legends of the now-dying art of light verse.  This was my first experience of McGinley, a more serious writer, who won a Pulitzer Prize for her proto-feminist collection TIMES THREE.  She's great too.  For those unfamiliar with one or more of these poets the companion book contains capsule biographies by J.D. McClatchey.<br />For me, hearing the voices of Parker and Nash was a gas.  Parker is so austere and while Nash is so wonderfully nasal.  My favorite track on the disc is probably his cantankakerous reading of &quot;Tune for an Ill-Tempered Clavichord.&quot;<br />The Voice of the Poet is a great series, at least the three CDs with which I am familiar.  If you enjoy hearing poems, as well as reading them-- and especially if you enjoy witty, funny verse-- I heartily recommend AMERICAN WITS.	2004-04-12
US	48275179	R1YJ7XDBQBXG99	1568655347	710449602	Three Plays: Private Lives, Blithe Spirit, Hay Fever	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Two classic plays and a fun bonus play	Noel Coward's irrepressibly witty style made him a huge theater success.  He also wrote serious dramas (I recommend the screenplay BRIEF ENCOUNTER) but he will always be known for the type of plays included in this volume, two of which promise to endure.<br />BLITHE SPIRIT (5F, 2M) is my favorite of the lot.  Writer Charles Condomine throws a dinner party and invites local medium Madame Arcati.  At an after-dinner seance, the spirit of Charles' first wife is released into the house.  The fact that only he can see her makes for some great comic scenes, and torments his second wife, Ruth, to no end.  The end of the second act brings a surprising twist that further turns the spiritual tables on Charles.  The themes of marriage and remarriage are also profitably taken up by...<br />PRIVATE LIVES (3F, 2M), perhaps Coward's best-known farce, and the last play in this volume.  Two honeymooning couples find themselves at the same resort as their exes, provoking three acts of on-again off-again action and some hilarious one-liners.  Love is a madness, the play says, and we enjoy hurting the ones we love.<br />The middle play of the volume, HAY FEVER, was one of Coward's early hits on the London stage, 1925 according to the dust jacket.  Though it contains much in the way of funny banter, it does not hold up as well as the other two plays.  It treats on a crazy family led by a histrionic matriarch and the unsuspecting guests they host one weekend.  It has a large cast (5F, 4M), and those interested in ensemble pieces might want to take a look.  The book is worth the read for BLITHE SPIRIT and PRIVATE LIVES alone.  Consider HAY FEVER a bonus.<br />Since I've taken the time to review one of Amazon's least-visited books, I'd appreciate your vote if you found my review at all helpful.  It is nice to know it is being read.  Thank you.	2004-04-10
US	48275179	R23WP5Y1W4GE23	0739308068	78738695	The Voice of the Poet: W.H. Auden	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Outstanding!	Not all poets make great readers of their own work.  But Auden's voice-- so warm, so musical, so passionate-- is a joy to listen to.  The recordings, done in many places over many years, are of a varying quality.  But in each the voice comes shining through.<br />The poem selections are top-notch across the board, containing such favorites as &quot;As I Walked Out One Evening,&quot; &quot;Fish in the Unruffled Lakes,&quot; &quot;Musee des Beaux Arts,&quot; four sonnets from &quot;In Time of War,&quot; &quot;Under Which Lyre,&quot; &quot;The More Loving One&quot; and &quot;The Shield of Achilles.&quot;  The CD version is supposedly abridged, but it is 57 minutes compared to the Audio Cassette version's hour.  This also comes with a book containing the final text of the selected poems (sometimes slightly different than what he reads).  The book also contains a nice introduction and background on Auden by poet J.D. McClatchy.<br />My favorite tracks have to be &quot;Under Which Lyre,&quot; read with such wit that it made me laugh several times, and the powerful &quot;Friday's Child&quot;.  I believe one can listen to a streaming version of &quot;Under Which Lyre&quot; on poets.org -- although it sounds much better on this CD since streaming audio is generally scratchy.  It could give you an idea if this CD is right for you.<br />This could hardly be bad when it contains such great poetry, but it manages to be appropriate for both long-time Auden fans and those who are just beginning.  An outstanding product.  5/5 stars.	2004-03-18
US	48275179	R2IX2BG4F891K1	0140423893	983952787	Martial in English (Poets in Translation, Penguin)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Penguin does it again!	If you want to begin exploring Martial, this is a great place to start.  They've gathered the best from nearly a hundred different translators, 1540-1992.  There's naughty, nice, imitations, inspirations and a ton o' wit packed in the pages.  It will certainly give you an idea of whose translations you would like to read in greater depth.  Several more famous poems are given in multiple translations (indexed, handily, in the back).<br />On the other hand, the book also works as something you just dip into.  The editors went out of their way to find obscure as well as well-known translations and it pays off.  Some of the reprintings from rare manuscripts are delightful, like this one from THE MOST ELEGANT AND WITTY EPIGRAMS OF SIR IOHN HARRINGTON, KNIGHT (1618):<br />&quot;That he is hoarse, yet still to prate doth please,<br />Proves he can neither speak, nor hold his peace.&quot;<br />Or you can dwell in the excellent modern translations of Peter Whigham, Dudley Fitts, Dorothea Wender, J.P. Sullivan, Olive Pitt-Kethly, Philip Murray, Ezra Pound etc.<br />I'm on a serious Pengiun Poets in Translation series binge.  I've gathered all the ones I know of in a Listmania List, if you didn't already find this page from it.  This is not my favorite of the books, but it's still probably the best way to meet Martial, the legendary Roman epigrammatist.  What this particular edition does well is allow you see how Martial was translated by and continues to influence English poets in a chronological order.  Hence, one learns a great deal about English poetry by reading the book, as well as Martial.	2004-03-17
US	48275179	R3V9SAYM1VKB6J	0811202054	833763643	Collected Poems of Dylan Thomas 1934-1952 (New Directions Book)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Dylan Thomas as he wanted to be remembered	The question is, do you get this book for cheap, or the brand new POEMS OF DYLAN THOMAS [WITH CD] for not cheap.  That depends on your wallet and your love of Thomas.<br />If you are new to Thomas, perhaps coming here intrigued after reading the often-anthologized \\"Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night,\\" I heartily recommend this book.  These are all the poems Thomas wanted to live on in his name.  They are excellent across the board, with a lot that I personally really loved.  Thomas in some ways reminds me of Auden or Yeats (or even Blake) in terms of his mysticism and commitment to sound and form.  I also think of Poe, who is often criticized by literary types, but much loved by the general public.  There's a reason Thomas is popular.  Even his most fantastical lines have a way of resonating.  Many are unforgettable:<br />\\"Your mouth, my love, the thistle in the kiss?\\"<br />For those who already know they love Thomas, the new book + CD is a worthy investment.  There's nothing wrong with this one though.  It fits in a (coat) pocket and contains everything Thomas wanted, plus the posthumous \\"Elegy.\\"  It is tragic he died young, but he left some great work behind.  This is it in a nutshell.  Highly recommended, 5/5 stars.	2004-03-17
US	48275179	R3EWKH1EL2QRBX	0140446443	893345240	Baudelaire in English (Poets in Translation, Penguin)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The best way to meet Baudelaire	This is the book that introduced me to Penguin's wonderful Poets in Translation series.  I've been hooked ever since.  With brief introductions placing the translator in proper context, the anthology moves through all Baudelaire's major poems, dwelling with multiple translations and comparisons to the original on a few key favorites.<br />If you can't read French (and believe me I can't), this is the next best thing.  By seeing Baudie from multiple perspectives, translated over several generations, you really get a better sense of his poems than any one translator could give you.  On top of that, the editors do a great job of giving minimal-but-effective background material.<br />Should you choose to explore further, you are armed with knowledge of how each translator approached his or her task.  This is invaluable.  It lead me, for example, to F.P. Sturm's translations, which I never otherwise would have known about.  Excellent! 5/5 stars.	2004-03-12
US	48275179	R1532AA2X3ZBX8	1559362014	52462239	Topdog/Underdog	Books	4	38	39	N	N	The divisive Pulitzer Prize winner	Since there are a lot of negative reviews here, I thought I'd throw in my two cents.  I just got around to reading the play, which I was sad to have missed on Broadway.  But if you're thinking of reading it this late in the game, you probably did too.  I recommend it.<br />The topdog is older brother Lincoln, a card hustler who quit the streets for a legit job as a Lincoln impersonator.  His (underdog) brother is Booth, a petty thief with ambitions to become as good at three card monte as his older bro.  What plays out between the brothers is classic stage drama, tiny eruptions of sublimated hatred leading to one big volcanic moment.<br />If you choose to read them not as characters, but as symbols of African-American manhood, or American history or whatever -- and this is tempting to do when dealing with Parks -- then the play probably won't pack the visceral wallop that it intends.  As someone who has studied playwriting, I find it a very clean, well-structured story, other than some moments of awkward exposition.  Parks' dialogue is hip and muscular, and I would have loved to see it performed by the likes of Jeffrey Wright and Mos Def.  It's stylized and you either like it or you don't.<br />If you haven't read or seen any Parks, I recommend giving this one a try.  Clearly it isn't everyone's style, but it deserves respect for craftsmanship if nothing else.  Sustaining a two character play ain't easy.  4/5 stars.	2004-03-10
US	48275179	RT3JK8NTA9KOD	1557831947	639987721	The Collected Works of Paddy Chayefsky: The Screenplays Volume 2	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	One of the greats -- a satirist and humanist	I have just finished this particular collection of screenplays, two of which are Academy Award winners and I am knocked out, just completely bowled over by them.  I've always been a fan of Chayefsky, ever since I first saw NETWORK (included), perhaps his best known film.  I hadn't seen THE HOSPITAL and caught only part of ALTERED STATES on television once.  Let me say, they are every bit as dark and funny and pertinent to today as NETWORK.<br />Brief summaries:  NETWORK is a satire on Network television, the story of a news anchor who goes crazy (or not so crazy) and the ensuing descent of his network as they play to the lowest common denominator for ratings.  Through Peter Finch, Chayefsky has bequeathed us the immortal line, &quot;I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to take it any more.&quot;  Fans of the film will notice this script contains some extra dialogue and one brief scene, all of which was probably shot, but which the great director Sidney Lumet saw fit to cut.  It won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay in 1976.<br />THE HOSPITAL script also won an Academy Award.  Here Chayefsky satirizes a bevy of denizens in a large New York hospital complex and the activists of the surrounding neighborhood, making them all complicit in the killing of &quot;God&quot; who checked himself in as a patient.  It's a fantastically snarky story, full of dialogue like<br />BOCK: What do you say Miss Drummond?<br />BARBARA: I expect you can call me Barbara, considering you ravished me three times last night.<br />BOCK: Three times?<br />BARBARA: Oh, look at him, pretending he didn't count.<br />Finally, there is ALTERED STATES, perhaps my favorite, which did not win any awards, and is considered somewhat of a failure as a film.  Well there's a story behind that.  Chayefsky, with his reputation (he also won a screenwriting Oscar for MARTY), was able to secure an unheard-of contract for the movie: not a single line could be changed.  This is standard in theater, but film is considered a director's medium -- and the director, Ken Russel, was adamant about rewriting.  He tried to change a few lines and Chayefsky shut him down.  Russel retaliated by trying to film the dialogue in the worst way possible, having it interrupted by other sounds, turned down too low, having actors speak it in weird ways.  After reading this script, one will agree this was a tragedy.  ALTERED STATES is nothing less than Chayefsky's answer to every scientific and religious question.  It packs a mind-blowing philosophical punch behind a science fiction story about a psychologist who regresses to a primitive consciousness.  It is also completely, touchingly human in the end.<br />There are other volumes of his screenplays, teleplays and stageplays -- all of which I am now desperate to get my hands on and read.  For anyone who reads screenplays, this book is an absolute essential.  I'm going to keep it in a reverent place on my shelf.  Staggeringly good.  5/5 stars!considered a director's medium -- and the director, Ken Russel, was adamant about rewriting.  He tried to change a few lines and Chayefsky shut him down.  Russel retaliated by trying to film the dialogue in the worst way possible, having it interrupted by other sounds, turned down too low, having actors speak it in weird ways.  After reading this script, one will agree this was a tragedy.  ALTERED STATES is nothing less than Chayefsky's answer to every scientific and religious question.  It packs a mind-blowing philosophical punch behind a science fiction story about a psychologist who regresses to a primitive consciousness.  It is also completely, touchingly human in the end.<br />There are other volumes of his screenplays, teleplays and stageplays -- all of which I am now desperate to get my hands on and read.  For anyone who reads screenplays, this book is an absolute essential.  I'm going to keep it in a reverent place on my shelf.  Staggeringly good.  5/5 stars!	2004-03-08
US	48275179	R98OD1NQT9QTI	1557281262	79828995	Missing Measures: Modern Poetry and the Revolt Against Meter	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Dense but effective	I checked this one out from my school library because I so greatly enjoyed Steele's ALL THE FUN'S IN HOW YOU SAY A THING.  To be certain, this book is a whole lot denser and than FUN'S.  I wouldn't go so far as to say more scholarly, but it is less accessible.<br />Which is fine.  As long as you know your poetry, and your history of poetry, you will find Steele's arguments well-reasoned and balanced.  Steele posits that the Modernist movement did not mean to overthrow meter and rhyme, or at least meant to replace it with another formal system.  He quotes William Carlos Williams and Eliot and Pound in effect saying, &quot;We failed.&quot;<br />Steele brings in a lot of background about ancient quantitative metrical systems and why they don't work in English to show why the one that has developed, accentual-syllabic, does work.  If I've lost you here, the book is perhaps not for you.  If you haven't read Steele's ALL THE FUN'S, I recommend it to read first.  This book is great, just not as accessible.  5/5 stars	2004-03-02
US	48275179	R2OBPJFAM7SXPY	0689112807	353307054	From the First Nine: Poems, 1946-1976	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This or the Selected or the Collected?	In 1982, this book was brought out as a companion to THE CHANGING LIGHT AT SANDOVER, which is definitely what I recommend reading of Merrill if one reads nothing else.  Going up to the book DIVINE COMEDIES 1976, this ample collection is far more manageable (and affordable) than the brand new 2001 COLLECTED POEMS.  There is also a SELECTED POEMS which encompasses Merrill's poems through 1985.  This doesn't mean a whole lot is added over this book, since Merrill was working on SANDOVER through most of the late 70's and early 80's.<br />What I did, and what I recommend doing, is reading this book and deciding if one wants even more late and early Merrill, which is what the COLLECTED offers.  I happen to find early Merrill rather dry and dull, although apparently Harold Bloom loved him.  I also happen to find late Merrill a bit too willfully obscure.  You can feel him teetering on the edge in SANDOVER.  The COLLECTED also offers 25 verse translations and perhaps that will be the tipping point.<br />The bottom line is, if one wants to get a sense of Merrill outside of SANDOVER, and if one wants to read the poems referred to in SANDOVER, this book allows one to do so.  If one wants to own Merrill, lock stock and barrel, then the new COLLECTED POEMS plus the COLLECTED NOVELS plus SANDOVER is needed.  Whichever one's preference, one is in for some great reading.	2004-02-21
US	48275179	RVE9V1TY8I2J8	0140446214	854996992	Homer in English (Poets in Translation, Penguin)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Great poet, great series	This book is the centerpiece of Penguin's wonderful and now tragically out of print Poets in Translation series, featuring selections from many translations with brief introductions.  Editing a volume for Homer is to tackle a great volume of translations, many of them famous in their own right.  The cut-off year is 1994, so the book doesn't include one of my favorite translations, Stanley Lombardo's, although it does have Fitzgerald and Lattimore excerpts; their texts are the other ones popular in schools these days.<br />While the Middle and Early Modern English selections could have used glosses, and some of the introductions are less than informative, the editors have done a fantastic job at digging up rare translations and finding examples of Homeria, Homer-inspired literature from Joyce to Keats to Walcott's OMEROS.  One gets a sense not only of how Anglophone views of Homer have changed, but also how writing has changed.  It demonstrates why certain translations (i.e. Chapman's, Pope's, Pound's First Canto) are justly famed.<br />If you like the idea of the Poets in Translation series, but not Homer, I suggest trying BAUDELAIRE IN ENGLISH or OVID IN ENGLISH, two of my favorites, and neither so overwhelmed by excess translators as this book can be.  On the other hand, there will certainly be more than one Homer in this book to please even the most picky reader, and the joy of discovering another fine translation or inspiration makes this book worth 5/5 stars.  Homer lives!	2004-02-16
US	48275179	R3O95X2ODS8WHR	0811206610	770118467	Apocalypse, and Other Poems	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Revolutionary, lover, Christian, mystic	Cardenal is a bit of all things, and never more so than in this collection.  The editors have selected &quot;representative&quot; poems from several phases of his career.  The poems are translated by several people, including Kenneth Rexroth, father of the beats, and Thomas Merton, Cardenal's longtime friend and official translator until Merton's untimely death.<br />One of the most moving and important poems in the collection is &quot;Coplas on the Death of Merton.&quot;  APOCALYPSE AND OTHER POEMS also includes Cardenal's early &quot;Epigrams&quot; (my favorite), several devotional poems based upon biblical passages, his mystical long-poem &quot;Apocalypse&quot; and his Native-American inspired long-poem &quot;Recordings of the Sacred Pipe.&quot;<br />I personally think Cardenal didn't hit his stride until ESTRECHO DUDUSO (THE DOUBTFUL STRAIT) and CANTICO COSMICO (COSMIC CANTICLE).  His revolutionary poems come off very strident and his devotionals dogmatic.  They do allow you to see how he modified his style to more effectively convey his rhetorical points later.<br />The big drawback to this book for me is that it doesn't contain the original Spanish versions of the poems.  Since I don't have them, I can't judge how good the translations are -- although they all seem competent.  There is definitely a big Pound influence in Cardenal, and I'm sure that drove the translators nuts.  In the plus column, the book has a brief but excellent introduction that gives background on Cardenal, Merton and the poems.  The book also has a small but handy glossary.<br />Fans of Cardenal's other books should most definitely read this one, unless they have access and ability to read the original Spanish texts, of course.  Those who haven't read Cardenal will probably have difficulty assimilating all the different personas presented in this collection.  I recommend John Lyons' translation of THE DOUBTFUL STRAIT as a good introduction to the revolutionary/historian Cardenal, and his COSMIC CANTICLE for those who like mystic poets like Blake and Ginsburg.  This is a shorter work than those, and for hardy folks willing to jump right in, you will be able to find which persona of Cardenal most interests you and go from there.  Buena suerte.COSMIC CANTICLE for those who like mystic poets like Blake and Ginsburg.  This is a shorter work than those, and for hardy folks willing to jump right in, you will be able to find which persona of Cardenal most interests you and go from there.  Buena suerte.	2004-02-15
US	48275179	R15FVMK759TMEW	0571210473	577885981	Memento & Following	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Two excellent screenplays	I thought MEMENTO was good, not great, and pretty much forgot about it right after seeing it.  Someone bought me this book a while back and I just got around to reading it.<br /><br />I have to say, I have a new found respect for Christopher Nolan and will take another look at MEMENTO.  These are two excellent screenplays that go well beyond experimentation in narrative structure to tell two solid (almost old-school film noir) stories.<br /><br />I'll start with FOLLOWING, which I've never seen.  It's a twisty little number about a would-be writer who likes to follow people.  The writer makes the mistake of following a cat burglar one day and gets sucked into his world.  The timeline is fractured, but it's a compelling read all the way through, and a great example of no-fat, pure-story screenwriting.<br /><br />MEMENTO, for anyone who doesn't know, is a story told backwards to mimic the disability of the central protagonist, who is incapable of making new memories.  It's a mystery told in reverse, not unlike the structure of OEDIPUS REX (think about it) albeit without patricide or incest.  Ultimately what I got out of it by reading it not seeing it is the fun of trying to figure out the story, of using clues to work backwards to causes.  Without the extraneous visual information of a film, the naked story on the page seemed to accumulate greater dramatic force.  Since it was a while since I saw the movie, I found myself wondering what was going to happen next (i.e. before) -- it was the gripping mystery experience many people had who first acclaimed the film.<br /><br />Even though the stories aren't told in a linear fashion, for aspiring writers this book is worth looking at for more than structure.  This is quality writing.  The stories are lean and full of metaphysical implications (in the least pretentious sense).  Good stories, well told.<br /><br />The book also includes an interesting interview about the making of FOLLOWING and a less interesting \\"piece\\" about MEMENTO's conception, which is just two juxtaposed paragraphs of Chris and his brother Jonah's conflicting memories (get it?).  They are icing on the cake of what has to be one of my favorite recent Faber screenplay releases.  5/5 starso juxtaposed paragraphs of Chris and his brother Jonah's conflicting memories (get it?).  They are icing on the cake of what has to be one of my favorite recent Faber screenplay releases.  5/5 stars	2004-02-08
US	48275179	R89MUFJO4USXX	0872203603	344723776	Aristophanes 1: Clouds, Wasps, Birds (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Three classic plays translated for performers and students	Better known for translating the great Greek tragedies, Peter Meineck has now turned his pen on the comedies, with generally positive results.  Like other translations published by Hackett, this one is aimed squarely at today's college students.  It has plenty of historical background for those who want it, or can be read just for the plays.<br />Translating comedy is trickier than tragedy, because jokes are so fickle.  What one society finds hilarious, another might find distasteful.  Meineck does his best to render the old Greek jokes and still be funny.  He doesn't always succeed.  His skills at punning are not as great as Aristophanes', nor do the jokes about minor Athenian figures like Theorus and Cardopion add much to a performance text.<br />And these are performance texts.  No matter how faithful to the original, no matter how many footnotes and endnotes the translator provides, a student should still be wary of changes made for modern performance.  Today's theater operates under an entirely different set of conventions.<br />The plays themselves are three genuine classics, WASPS being less known than CLOUDS and BIRDS, but in this book, perhaps the best.  Procleon's obsession with jury service and the headaches it causes his son translates very well, and Meineck is surprisingly adept at rendering the political understory that subliminally critizes the Athenian leader Cleon.<br />BIRDS is the story of two friends who come up with one of the great comic plans: a utopia named Cloudcuckooland where they, with the help of the birds, rule both the gods and men.  And it works!<br />CLOUDS is read most often because it features a comic version of Socrates and his 'Pondertorium.'  While Meineck and Introduction writer Ian C. Storey conclude the portrayal of Socrates is entirely innaccurate, it sure is funny.  CLOUDS is really more of a father-son story, a father convincing his profligate son to get an education in order to argue the father's way out of the accumulating debts.  What the father doesn't bank on is his son using new-learned rhetorical skills to argue that a son has the right to beat his father.<br />Meineck is British, so the slang in the plays is full of 'poofters' and 'arses.'  I will say this much, only recently have translations of the Greek comic playwrights begun to reflect how genuinely bawdy they were.  Some of Meineck's best footnotes let you in on the double-entendres.<br />It's all a lot of silly mischief, and in the final reckoning Aristophanes comes through loud and clear, despite such devices as rhymed doggerel passages (no rhymes in classical Greek) and confusing name translations like Makemedo.  The title of this book is ARISTOPHANES I, and let us hope that professor Meineck is at work on an ARISTOPHANES II that will include some of Aristophanes lesser-known works as well as perennial favorite LYSISTRATA.ng debts.  What the father doesn't bank on is his son using new-learned rhetorical skills to argue that a son has the right to beat his father.<br />Meineck is British, so the slang in the plays is full of 'poofters' and 'arses.'  I will say this much, only recently have translations of the Greek comic playwrights begun to reflect how genuinely bawdy they were.  Some of Meineck's best footnotes let you in on the double-entendres.<br />It's all a lot of silly mischief, and in the final reckoning Aristophanes comes through loud and clear, despite such devices as rhymed doggerel passages (no rhymes in classical Greek) and confusing name translations like Makemedo.  The title of this book is ARISTOPHANES I, and let us hope that professor Meineck is at work on an ARISTOPHANES II that will include some of Aristophanes lesser-known works as well as perennial favorite LYSISTRATA.	2004-02-02
US	48275179	RG7J81IMG7OWT	0374523509	466579403	Omeros	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Postcolonial Homer	Walcott confidently feels his way into epic form, borrowing the blind eyes of Homer and tropes from Homer's tales.  Jam-packed with craft, OMEROS' Dantesque tercets make hairpin turns on the pinpoints of vowels and consonants.  Walcott is nothing if not evocative, calling forth the spirits of breadfruit, waves, Plains Indians, sunken treasure, sea creatures and all his other muses with a music that is beyond sounds.<br />For all the great poetry, what fans of the modern epic will miss in OMEROS is a narrative through-line.  Structurally, it is more like William Carlos Williams' PATERSON or especially Hart Crane's THE BRIDGE, than like THE ILLIAD or THE ODYSSEY.  The stories in the poem are given secondary importance to the ideas.  While I will not disagree with other reviewers' characterizations of the characters as 'well-developed,' I will say that Walcott gives his characters very little to do.  The greatest journey is the one taken by the un-named narrator (who seems to be prowling the University Poet circuit from the Carribean to the U.S. to England).  Those who want a story with their modern epic are directed to THE CHANGING LIGHT AT SANDOVER by James Merrill.<br />What Walcott offers in place of narrative is recollections, meditations and essays on a post-colonial world.  Certain human motifs are bound to repeat, he says, and demonstrates with the story of fishermen Hector and Achille fighting for the island girl in the yellow dress, Helen.  To me, Omeros is really a collection of poems in a similar form spiralling around similar themes, taking up each others' melodies in different keys.  Like any symphony, it sometimes gets lost.  But its individual passages are, more often than not, magnificent -- and beautiful to hear.	2004-01-06
US	48275179	R2CT3WG7NXDUFT	0822205696	557978114	Eleven Short Plays by William Inge - Acting Edition	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Some have aged well; some haven't	Along with Tenessee Williams and Eugene O'Neill, William Inge ruled Broadway in the 1950's and early 60's.  Their brand of poetic realism continues in the straight-play playwrights of today like Tony Kushner, Susan Lori-Parks and David Auburn.  These eleven plays are notable for the issues they dance around, issues which playwrights now confront head-on.<br />TO BOBOLINK, FOR HER SPIRIT (4F, 3M, 7pgs) Conversation between autograph seekers waiting outside of restruant in New York for Perry Como, who may or may not be inside.  This is just a sketch, but the characters are well drawn and by changing the names of the movie stars, could well be set in the present day.<br />PEOPLE IN THE WIND (3M, 5F, 11 pgs) Notable mainly in that it is clearly an early version of what would become the famous play (and movie starring Marilyn Monroe) BUS STOP.  All of the themes of that play are present, and most of the characters, in this trial run.<br />A SOCIAL EVENT (2F, 1M, 6 pgs) Short sketch about a couple getting ready for a party.  Has a nice twist ending.<br />THE BOY IN THE BASEMENT (3M, 1F, 15 pgs, multiple scenes) Set in a funeral home, this play deals with homosexuality and death in a surprisingly complex and emotional way.  Perhaps the pre-cursor to SIX FEET UNDER.<br />THE TINY CLOSET (1M, 3F, 7 pgs) Not the metaphor you think it is.  This is a short sketch about the peculiarities we all hide in our closets.<br />MEMORY OF SUMMER (2F, 1M, 6 pgs) Sketch about a crazy woman who can't let go of summer.<br />BUS RILEY'S BACK IN TOWN (4M, 2F, 16 pgs) Another winner, this one deals with race and forbidden love in a small Texas town.<br />THE RAINY AFTERNOON (2F, 1M, 7 pgs) Cute children's play where a boy learns to play house and the audience learns much about the absent parents of the girl who teaches him.<br />THE MALL (6F, 4M, 10 pgs) A fantasy about love through the eyes of characters Inge noticed on &quot;summer strolls through Central Park.&quot;  Very Lanford Wilson.<br />AN INCIDENT AT THE STANDISH ARMS (1M, 1F, 1 child, 5pgs) Notable for the event the dialogue dances around, a one-night stand that is just ending at the beginning of the play.  This is a heart-breaking little sketch.<br />THE STRAINS OF TRIUMPH (5M, 1F, 9 pgs) Nice old college play.  Athelete refuses to run after best friend 'steals' the girl he had a crush on.  Rather old-fashioned in its ideals about love.  A professor of ancient languages character unfortunately underwritten.<br />Lots of good material here for actors and directors of all ages.  Recommended.  4/5 stars./>AN INCIDENT AT THE STANDISH ARMS (1M, 1F, 1 child, 5pgs) Notable for the event the dialogue dances around, a one-night stand that is just ending at the beginning of the play.  This is a heart-breaking little sketch.<br />THE STRAINS OF TRIUMPH (5M, 1F, 9 pgs) Nice old college play.  Athelete refuses to run after best friend 'steals' the girl he had a crush on.  Rather old-fashioned in its ideals about love.  A professor of ancient languages character unfortunately underwritten.<br />Lots of good material here for actors and directors of all ages.  Recommended.  4/5 stars.	2003-12-27
US	48275179	R4S3APJ8HGFUK	037570664X	758740130	The Spanish Prisoner and The Winslow Boy: Two Screenplays	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Two fine scripts, too minimalist at times	For those who have not seen the films, or have not read Mamet's trademark dialogue before, these two scripts will be bewildering.  Following the nuances of the shifting allegiances and the fate of the Macguffin &quot;process&quot; in THE SPANISH PRISONER is difficult, but that's also the fun.  I'll admit, even after reading the script carefully I'm not sure who conned who in the end.<br />THE WINSLOW BOY is a different kind of difficult.  A justly-praised, fine adaptation of the Terrence Rattigan play.  Problem is, Mamet expects us all to be familiar with the play.  He doesn't bother to give any information about the characters (including ages) or their surroundings, except what you come to gather through the dialogue.  Without a map to keep the character realtionships straight, this is a tough read, not least in some of the deliciously archaic words and manners of Edwardian England (where the story takes place, you learn eventually).<br />Because both scripts were written to be self-directed, Mamet does not share many details, even by his own minimalist standards.  This, plus his annoying habit of writing out lots of camera angles, make them less enjoyable reads compared to most contemporary screenplays.<br />There is a lot to be gleaned her in terms of structure, story and character, however.  I recommend seeing the movies first, and then deciding whether you want the scripts, Mamet's minimalist recipes for cinematic suspense.	2003-12-11
US	48275179	R3J3VPB6XU8ZG4	0486267121	24027062	Introduction to Spanish Poetry: A Dual-Language Book (Dover Dual Language Spanish)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A great (and cheap!) little book	I bought mine a few years ago during my first inklings of interest in Spanish poetry.  I'm glad I did.  Key poets are represented by a short biography (in English) and one or two poems in Spanish with English literal prose on the facing page.  Simple!  Perfect!<br />The book goes from El Cid to early modern poets like Alexiandre, Alberti and Cernuda.  I gather it is a shorter version of a longer book by Florit, but there is no reason not to get this one.  This will get you started and help you decide which poets are worth investigating.  A wonderful little book!	2003-11-11
US	48275179	R374TB4CMJTEOG	0325002428	751265388	The Power of the Playwright's Vision: Blueprints for the Working Writer	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A useful summary of common play structures	I have taken Professor Farrell's classes at NYU.  This book distills his class teaching in a readable if sometimes repetitive way and will utimately be useful to more than just practicing playwrights.  Anyone studying how plays are made will find his Yale Drama School-influenced method quite informative.<br />Farrell's basic thesis is that playwrights communicate their philosophical visions of the world through their plays.  Not exactly ground-breaking.  But neither is Aristotle when he says plays must have a beginning, middle and end.  Farrel is not entirely artsy, either.  If a play fails to capture an audience, he says, it has failed.<br />So, how to go about capturing an audience with your vision?  Farrell gives the blueprints of successful plays and dramatic genres and provides commentary on their uses in communicating certain basic ideas like:<br />One person can change the world.<br />One person can't change the world.<br />Only groups of people can change the world.<br />Things change, but for the worse, and people can't stop this deterioration.<br />He talks a lot of isms (Naturalism, Realism, Expressionism...) but keeps them extremely distinct, one of the advantages of how he teaches his classes.  He also keeps you excited and engaged, even if it requires prose that resembles the patter of an infomercial.<br />For those who can't make it to NYU or Yale to study drama, this is a highly-readable version of the basic curriculum and a good companion to play anthologies like THEATRE ALIVE! by Norman A. Bert.  Some will take exception to Farrell's simplifications and omissions.  In my opinion, what THE POWER OF THE PLAYWRIGHT'S VISION loses in simplification, it makes up for in inspiration.	2003-11-11
US	48275179	R3SPRF7XQ7YERX	0807062138	509848454	Lorca & Jimenez: Selected Poems	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Two fine poets, one fine translator	Not having read other translations of Jimenez, by far the lesser known of the two poets, I can't comment on Bly's translation other than to say it keeps fairly close to the Spanish.  Bly, the American surrealist poet famous for his theories of &quot;leaping poetry,&quot; does a fine job overall.  I've read better Lorca translations, but many many great poets have tried their hand at Lorca.<br />Bly goes pretty even-steven: half Lorca, half Jimenez.  Both were Spanish poets who lived in the United States.  Many of the poems they wrote about the U.S. are included.  The selection is very good overall, if somewhat biased toward poems that represent Bly's theories of &quot;leaps&quot; in perception and logic.<br />What you're getting here is a document of not only two great Spanish 'surrealists' (if we must put them in a category) but also of a leading American surrealist's take on them.  Readers interested in surrealism as a movement or in Bly and his &quot;leaping verse&quot; would do well to read this.  I'd also recommend the book for those interested in exploring Lorca and Jimenez.  If you are only interested in Lorca (and can't read him in the original Spanish) you might want to try reading complete translations of his GYPSY SONGS and POET IN NEW YORK, rather than the fragments of those two seminal works presented here.  For those like me who are already familiar with Lorca, Bly's take will prove interesting, and you will greatly enjoy Jimenez.  A dynamic duo.  In total, there is a great deal here to recommend itself and that is why I give it 4/5 stars.	2003-10-20
US	48275179	R32QWUWIMQOYC	0394510941	231857603	Making scenes: A personal history of the turbulent years at Yale, 1966-1979	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What does it take to start a legend?	Yale Rep is widely known and repected in theatrical circles because of the singular vision of one man, Robert Brustein -- an outspoken critic who was invited by the president of Yale to put his actions where his ideals were.<br />It was not easy.  This book chronicles in a lively fashion the birth of the school that in turn gave birth to actors like Meryl Streep and playwrights like Christopher Durang.  And this is all while Yale could at any moment be burned to the ground by the radicals of the 1960's and 70's -- people who often made New Haven their headquarters.  This is a time when theater could lead to riots, arrests, and the resignation of the President of the United States.<br />MAKING SCENES is one of the side-stories of the rebirth of the American Theater, although to call it a side-story may be selling it short.  The revival of regional theater was spearheaded by Yale Rep, which then spearheaded the revival of Broadway and Hollywood.  Brustein tells a great story that just happens to be true, an homage to the visions and revisions of some remarkable artists.	2003-09-26
US	48275179	R4F69W0YARBJX	0393900096	84678768	A New Way to Pay Old Debts (New Mermaid Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny stuff	This is more in a Jonsonian vein than Shakespearean.  I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in Jacobian theater and culture.  Because the characters are stock figures, the whole machinery of the debt and marriage systems is made transparent, provided you can see through the jokes.  And speaking of jokes, I laughed out loud several times and enjoyed the parodies of some of Shakespeare's famous speeches.  Sir Giles Overreach is a great villain and the naifish hero Welborne really does find a clever 'new way to pay old debts.'  The introduction calls this a proto-typical debt comedy.  Not having read every debt comedy, I'm willing to take Craik's word.<br />New Mermaids does good work in terms of modernizing spelling and providing notes for those of us who aren't PhD's.  People wanting an original-spelling text should go to their university's library or take a valium.  Craik's introduction is brief but effective.  It should be read after the play, since the play is easy enough to follow on first read with only a few recourses to the Cast List.  Enjoy!	2003-09-17
US	48275179	R1AOKW1UHBQ8UK	0679723935	750143058	The Uses of Enchantment: The Meaning and Importance of Fairy Tales	Books	5	8	10	N	N	"A charming book about enchantment..."	\\"...a profound book about fairy tales.\\" --John Updike<br />What a profound book it is!  Bettelheim has convinced me not only why children and adults love these stories-- \\"Little Red Riding Hood,\\" \\"Goldilocks and the Three Bears,\\" \\"Cinderella,\\" \\"Beauty and the Beast,\\" ARABIAN NIGHTS, \\"Snow White,\\" \\"Hansel and Gretel,\\" \\"Jack and the Beanstalk\\" and many more-- he has also convinced me that the elements that comprise these stories are essential for children to grow up healthy and emotionally sound.  He makes a great case for not bowdlerizing the stories, nor imposing strict logic upon them.  They speak, in his Freudian terminology, directly to the sub-conscious.<br />While he occasionally goes overboard with Freudian psychoanalysis (Bettelheim is, after all, a Freudian psychoanalyst), he manages several times on each page of the book to shed new light on these tales and how they work.  For anyone who is interested in the power of storytelling, here is a great book.<br />I read it based on the recommendation of playwright David Mamet, who prefers it to Joseph Campbell's HERO WITH A THOUSAND FACES.  In any case, the implications of Bettelheim's book expand far beyond only fairy tales.  Fairy tales are simply the first stories that we hear, refined for hundreds, sometimes thousands of years in the oral tradition.  If we look at them closely enough, we can see our greater humanity.  Highly recommended for anyone, writers or parents or both, who tell stories and re-tell them.	2003-09-17
US	48275179	R3VYD8DVT0NFP9	081121298X	995379673	Paterson (Revised Edition) (New Directions Paperback 806 806)	Books	3	27	42	N	Y	Probably not worth the effort	Even for a fan of WCW like myself, this is a tough one to read. Williams is still Williams, but not the Williams of the brevity of \\"This is just to say\\".  Only die-hard fans should probably attempt this rambling modern epic.  Excerpts of the good stuff are readily available, and I recommend them to fans of THE SELECTED POEMS. The closest thing I can compare PATERSON to, in terms of structure and method, is Ezra Pound's CANTOS: a collage of words, formidably difficult to understand, and also unfinished.<br />Many reviewers here objected to the prose passages, which contain letters or stories of historical interest about Paterson and its environs.  I found the prose the most interesting part-- probably because it was in plain English.  The notes in the back of this latest edition are invaluable in making sense of the sources of the prose and other references.<br />I've re-read PATERSON and also read some scholarly books on it since I last reviewed it and I still haven't changed my opinion.  Late Williams is just too avant-garde for my tastes, dabbling as he did in \\"field theory\\" with Charles Olson and the 'tri-verse stanza' -- informal formal verse.  The structure of PATERSON is not narrative, no matter how much Williams said otherwise.<br />Williams says that Paterson is both \\"a city and a man.\\"  Paterson is just a book, one with some good parts and some intentionally baffling parts.  I'm sorry to report that I did not enjoy it as much as I had hoped.	2003-08-26
US	48275179	R1UJH6XIZAGRIC	0674637119	459511438	The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	A dazzling critical work and vigorous defense of The Sonnets	This is a work of scholarship of the highest order.  Vendler appreciates, for our benefit, each of Shakespeare's 154 Sonnets in mini-essays of three to six pages.  Before each essay is the original 1609 quarto text and Vendler's own modernization of it, since the spelling and printing conventions of Shakespeare's day can be obscure to us now.<br /><br />But this is not all.  In a lengthy introduction, Vendler surveys critical reception of The Sonnets through the present day and argues persuasively for her own methods of interpretation.  Her interpretations examine the poems on a multitude of lingiustic levels, from the phonological (sound) to the semantic (meaning, content).  She avoids detailed analysis of imagery and socio/psychological implications, for the most part, since they can be had elsewhere.<br /><br />Her aim is to show Shakespeare's poetic choices and illuminate the thought patterns that structure the poems.  Sometimes she goes as far as to show possible lines Shakespeare could have written, but didn't.  The effect of this analysis is that I finally feel I can approach these poems on a level that truly respects them.  Thanks to Vendler, I understand why such lines as--<br /><br />- Shall I compare thee to a summer's day<br />- My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun<br />- When in disgrace with Fortune and men's eyes<br /><br />--and so so many more stick in my head, and have been so memorable to previous generations.<br /><br />As accessible as it is for modern criticism, THE ART OF SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS is not an entry-level work.  Vendler assumes not only familiarity with The Sonnets, but also with certain linguistic concepts such as \\"speech acts\\" and \\"deixis\\".  It's nothing a bright person with a good dictionary can't get through.<br /><br />Those who order the hardback edition will get the added bonus of an audio CD (which Amazon mistakenly lists as a CD-ROM) of Vendler reading several of the Sonnets.  Unsurprisingly, her readings stress what she says should be stressed in the essays and are in the American accent of a Harvard professor, not in the phonologically reconstructed accent of Shakespeare's day (to hear this, try [[ASIN:087910967X Accents by Robert Blumenfeld]], which features a reading of Sonnet 29).<br /><br />For English majors, poets, and people who love poetry (I hope the categories overlap) I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  People turned off by Harold Bloom, Vendler's esteemed Yale counterpart, would do well to look at Vendler's less self-important and more textual approach to literary criticism.  As far as I'm concerned, this is the definitive edition of The Sonnets, not likely to be surpassed in the near and not-so-near future.American accent of a Harvard professor, not in the phonologically reconstructed accent of Shakespeare's day (to hear this, try [[ASIN:087910967X Accents by Robert Blumenfeld]], which features a reading of Sonnet 29).    For English majors, poets, and people who love poetry (I hope the categories overlap) I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  People turned off by Harold Bloom, Vendler's esteemed Yale counterpart, would do well to look at Vendler's less self-important and more textual approach to literary criticism.  As far as I'm concerned, this is the definitive edition of The Sonnets, not likely to be surpassed in the near and not-so-near future.	2003-08-26
US	48275179	R31R9WYSP44CGD	0679724834	782579528	W.H. Auden: Selected Poems	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A marvelous introduction	UPDATE: It appears there are later expanded or revised editions which contain different selections of poems -- and do include &#34;Funeral Blues&#34;. Many of the reviews Amazon attaches here, including mine, are of the earlier 1989 edition. Thanks to commenter John Lederman for the clarification.<br /><br />ORIGINAL 2003 REVIEW<br /><br />I can do little more than echo the other reviewers here.  This is all a 'selected poems' shoud be: introductory and selective.  Yes, &#34;Funeral Blues&#34; is missing.  But no one can complain about what is here, which includes &#34;In Time of War&#34;, the great sonnet sequence; &#34;The Quest&#34;, another long sequence; and the entirety of THE SEA AND THE MIRROR, which is based on Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST.  If you are, however, only interested in his love poems, I'd have to steer you toward TELL ME THE TRUTH ABOUT LOVE, a nice little chapbook containing only those.<br /><br />My own personal experience with this book may be relevant.  It has served to introduce me to one of the finest poets of the last century and sparked a desire to read THE COLLECTED POEMS, also edited by Mendelson, to see how Auden re-wrote thirty of the brilliant poems here included.  I'm continuing on my voyage; hope you are starting on yours.	2003-08-26
US	48275179	RQB3Y2M3RNGWP	0879101261	831936708	Light on the Subject: Stage Lighting for Directors and Actors - And the Rest of Us	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Neither flesh nor fish	I'm guy who likes the technical.  This book leaps right into the technical with hopes that you'll swallow it whole.  That is not a non-technical approach.  Far from it.  It overwhelmed even me, who was ready to get into the nitty-gritty.  A few more diagrams and a little more patience would have made the first part of the book better.<br />The second part of the book, which concentrates on theory, is more fun, mostly because of the anecdotes.  I wish Mr. Hays had been more generous with the anecdotes, because they are informative as well as interesting.  What comes across loud and clear is the artistry of not only lighting designers, but the entire tech crew.<br />I have not read any other books on theater lighting, but this book was certainly more informative than classes I have taken.  I can't endorse it fully, since most left-hand pages are nearly blank-- Hays puts short quotes by novelists in that describe light in terms of emotion.  The quotes would be better in their own section.  And it is not as &quot;non-technical&quot; as advertised.  However, all this is probably compensated by, for most theater people, the handy glossary which includes pictures of different kinds of lights-- invaluable!<br />I hate to give anything a mixed review, but hopefully you can determine from the description above whether this is the book you are looking for.	2003-08-20
US	48275179	RMQ3TQZ33G5EI	0140127224	337605310	On Directing Film	Books	3	82	98	N	N	&quot;It's a good thing the people in Hollywood have no souls...&quot;	&quot;...so they don't have to suffer through the lives they lead.&quot;<br />Mamet is always Mamet.  Even when talking about directing-- after having directed only two films, HOUSE OF GAMES and THINGS CHANGE.  Never heard of 'em, you say?  Yes, this book is taken from a series of lectures he gave at Columbia film school in 1990.  Since then, Mamet has directed Steve Martin not to be funny (THE SPANISH PRISONER) and Gene Hackman not to be cool (HEIST) as well as other actors not to &quot;inflect.&quot;<br />Most people, like me, love Mamet's writing but find his directing stilted and wooden.  This book explains why.  Written half as rant and half as Socratic dialogue, Mamet lays out his film theory with second-rate Sergei Eisenstein (I think he means Kuleshov) and third-rate Bruno Bettelheim (who wrote about fairy tales, not film).  The result is a mixed bag, not too informative about directing, but always entertaining.<br />If you want to know why telling a story on film is like telling a dirty joke, this is your book.  If you'd like to read how to construct a movie about a farmer who has to sell a pig, or a student who wants to &quot;get a retraction,&quot; this is your book.  If you want to know why &quot;[t]he less the hero is described to us, the better off we are,&quot; this is your book.  It's slim, it reads fast, and it's easier to understand than THE THREE USES FOR A KNIFE.  If you want a book about directing by a real director, I recommend Sidney Lumet's MAKING MOVIES.	2003-08-19
US	48275179	RMVT5ZG5XZI91	0679756604	737362329	Making Movies	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Honesty and a love of movies	I've read other books about directing.  But I didn't understand what a director did until I read this book.  Written lucidly and intelligently, with a true love of a good film story, Lumet's book is a valuable inside account of making movies.  There are stories about stars (though not gossip) and about incredible disasters.  But mostly it's about going out there, day after day, and getting the best shots you can, the best sound, the best cut.<br />Lumet lays it out step by step with absolute honesty (film-making can be boring!) but also with a great love, a love for a good film story.  Lumet believes that the authorship of the film belongs to all the people who help make it-- the actors, the writer, the set designer, the cinematographer, etc.--  The proof is in the pudding: Dog Day Afternoon, 12 Angry Men, Network.  He let's today's spoiled-child 'auteurs' know that humility pays dividends.  All in all, an essential volume on the craft of directing.	2003-08-18
US	48275179	RLD7HLM5REQUM	0810119803	896881059	Metamorphoses: A Play	Books	3	13	20	N	Y	Plays better than it reads	This is not a play script in the traditional sense.  This is part of the new trend of director-centered theater, where concept is all.  In this case the concept is a pool, where several of Ovid's tales of strange-changes-in-the-night take place in and around.  This is one of the better examples of concept theater, and it won many awards on Broadway (but not for script).  Reading the original Ovid is preferable to reading descriptions of how the pool should be lit, or what music plays through scene changes.  But seeing it?  If done right, this material could be incredibly visually striking.<br />I'd advise stage directors to take a peek.  This is director-friendly material.  Actors, playwrights, and general readers I'd steer towards Ted Hughes' TALES FROM OVID.	2003-08-18
US	48275179	R16EQLBIN4BPUT	9626340029	432838089	Paradise Lost (Great Epics)	Books	5	57	65	N	Y	So much better than reading it yourself!	Let's face it.  Reading Milton is no cakewalk.  Oscar Wilde once said a writer was a &quot;prose Milton&quot; then added, &quot;but so is Milton.&quot;  That's why Anton Lesser's reading is genius.  It's so genius, it demonstrates the genius of Milton.  Laura Paton can't quite match Anton in his Shakespearean crispness and demonic force, but she only reads the few speeches of Eve.<br />Yes, it's an abridged version.  But when they say abridged, they barely mean it.  Whole books are included on the three (THREE!) CDs and ones that aren't read fully are here in Milton's own summaries.  I recommend getting the NORTON CRITICAL EDITION OF PARADISE LOST to read along with this (although everything that's read is included in a booklet that also comes (!) with the CDs.  The Norton Crit has the full text (should you want it) along with good footnotes and essays.<br />This is all so well done and so mindbogglingly cheap for how long it is (four hours!), I'm a little baffled why I hadn't heard of it before.  Every English teacher will tell you that Milton should be read aloud.  So why not have Anton Lesser do it for you?  He does it so dern well.	2003-08-14
US	48275179	R2XD37I3S4BDPQ	0631200975	62998301	Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics (The Language Library)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Nothing more than it says	Lucid prose.  Good examples.  Decent range.  This dictionary is nothing more than it advertises.  It is not an encyclopedia and therefore goes into very little depth.  But it does collate terms from a broad range of disciplines within linguistics and has helped a novice like me become familiar with them (if not an expert).  It is expecially good at describing how the meanings of terms have changed over time, or how they are employed in different contexts or sub-fields of linguistics.	2003-08-14
US	48275179	R1OM04PD6TC0BX	015675780X	720985319	Phaedra	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Not my favorite of Wilbur's translations	The play is a good one.  Racine manages to make a classical tragedy very real and very resonant (to 17th Century France and to us.)  Many translators have tried their hand at it recently, including Ted Hughes.<br /><br />I'm a big fan of Richard Wilbur's translations of Moliere, so I thought I'd give this one a try.  Wilbur manages to reproduce the rhyme and metrical scheme of the original, but compared to his other translations, this one is pretty dead.  Where you expect high-flying rhetoric, Wilbur never modulates out of his fusty base tone.  The original play is devoid of comedy, which is a shame, since Wilbur is so good at it.<br /><br />The bottom line is that this translation is quite readable, if not perhaps definitive.  Those with access to a library might want to compare all the new translations and see which one suits them best.  Fans of Wilbur are advised to stick to his Molieres.	2003-08-14
US	48275179	R2U7OTANZIWY6M	0691017603	785854268	Notes on Prosody; From the Commentary to the Author's Translation of Pushkin's Eugene Onegin (Bollingen Series, 72)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Iambic tetrameters the Nabokov way	A bit too long and deep for it's misleading title, NOTES ON PROSODY remains influential in the continuing study of English and Russian poetry.  Nabokov's ideas about &quot;scudded feet&quot; and &quot;tilts,&quot; while not adopted into the orthodoxy on scansion, are still read widely by the folks who study it, folks whose bibliographies led me to this little volume.  It's worth a read, especially if one would like a witty, concise survey of the iambic tetrameter in English or a study of Pushkin's deployment of it in EUGENE ONEGIN.<br />Those who arrive here as fans of VN's novels should steer instead towards SPEAK, MEMORY (his autobio) or LECTURES ON LITERATURE for their Nabokovian non-fiction.  Imagine a joke written in French here.  Happy hunting!	2003-08-06
US	48275179	RYFHZM4O97X7X	0151004692	376649002	Mayflies: New Poems and Translations	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Slim volume that packs a lot of good poetry	Richard Wilbur is the acknowledged living master of formal verse.  That means he works in good old-fashioned meter and rhyme.  His fans will not be disappointed by this volume, except for its slimness.<br />If you don't have it already, I recommend his Pulitzer-winning NEW AND COLLECTED POEMS, of which this volume is really just a continuation.  MAYFLIES has a healthy dose of translations, including an entire canto of Dante's INFERNO (strange) and scene of Moliere's AMPHITRYON (hilarious!).  If there is an over-riding theme, it is of changes and transformations, mostly metaphorical, rather than the Ovidian physical sort.<br />Wilbur continues harvesting Robert Frost's crops, with several poems about nature and even one about a country wall.  The nature poems are mixed with epigrams and lyrics lest you forget that Wilbur can do it all.<br />My one objection is that this collection really is slim, just 75 pages, much of which is translation.  Those on a budget should hold out for a paperback edition, or get the NEW AND COLLECTED.	2003-07-29
US	48275179	R4WFL241EPL9Z	0374516707	614330520	The Dream Songs: Poems	Books	5	57	59	N	Y	Curses John Berryman	Curse you John Berryman!  You have ruined my ear for other poets.  THE DREAM SONGS is one of those award-winning modern epics you wonder why you are reading until near the end, when you realize that you have slipped completely into the author's syntaxes, thoughts and, yes, dreams.<br />Don't let Berryman in his forward tell you different: this book is baldly autobiographical.  Berryman dubbed himself Henry, gave a voice to his traumatized psyche (Mr. Bones) and set them talking, unraveling a lifetime of scholarship mixed with pain.<br />If you have read about Berryman, you will see him instantly in THE DREAM SONGS.  Yet, unlike Robert Lowell, Berryman doesn't assume a familiarity with his biography that verges on solipsism.  It is enough to know his father killed himself, Berryman killed himself, Berryman had affairs, was an alcoholic, was married several times and that he dearly loved literature, especially Shakespeare, some of whose Sonnets he parodies.<br />There is no narrative to the 385 Songs, per se.  They come in thematic groups, which are grouped into seven 'books' and, like diary entries, chronicle whatever is on Henry's mind, which is often the untimely deaths other poets, such as Delmore Schwartz and Sylvia Plath.  Like most \\"modern\\" poetry, THE DREAM SONGS is a tough slog through sentences that may or may not make sense.  Except if you read them enough and carefully, they start making sense.  It's a magical effect, but not gained without some serious struggle.<br />The poems themselves are incomparable to anything I've read before.  Berryman borrows aspects of African-American English and WCWesque directness.  He composes dehydrated, idiosyncratically-punctuated sentences that straddle stanzas of six lines, often rhymed and never predictable in length.  Individual lines sometimes break into startling caesuras or hover outside the regular three-of-six form.  However inconsisent individually, the poems achieve a perverse (foolish?) consistency overall which, grasped, is that magical concussion I spoke of before.  THE DREAM SONGS are nothing if not unique; I highly-recommend them as part of a balanced poetic diet.ch, grasped, is that magical concussion I spoke of before.  THE DREAM SONGS are nothing if not unique; I highly-recommend them as part of a balanced poetic diet.	2003-07-29
US	48275179	R196X45JG6NRIB	0374514003	418197423	Selected Poems: Revised Edition	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Get the new 'Collected Poems' instead	I made the mistake of getting this edition just as the new COLLECTED POEMS OF ROBERT LOWELL (edited by Frank Bidart) was coming out.  The new book has all the notes, introductory biographical info (Lowell writes about his life as if you already know about it) and additional Lowell that THE SELECTED POEMS lacks.<br />However, if you want to go cheap (or don't need notes) this is not a bad 'Selected Poems'.  It's fairly comprehensive, yet not too long -- and it gives you a good sense of the poet.  It's been all people had for years (other than buying each of his many books).  I think with the new COLLECTED, however, it has probably run its course.	2003-07-24
US	48275179	R2ZDRQFKBGLXQK	1400020506	467485153	Spanish Daily Phrase and Culture Calendar 2004 (LL(R) Daily Phrase Calendars)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	My ringing endorsement	I got last year's (this year's, as I write) and I love it.  Every day has a word and that word used in a phrase or sentence.  The vocabulary is well-selected and should please novices and intermediates alike.  (And maybe higher, since many people would consider me higher than intermediate.  I should be, with all the time I've put into it! :-)<br />Bottom line: this has improved my Spanish, and given me some fun idioms along the way.	2003-07-24
US	48275179	R2MBCI1JCVPWAE	0140112758	447913427	How to Be Well-versed in Poetry	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Funny but not *that* funny	This is mild stuff, basically a collection of light verse about poetry (famous poems and basic techniques).  I can't say I enjoyed it as much as the other reviewers, but I will say there are some funny poems in here, especially the parodies of famous poets.  Not all of the poems have aged well, but you get enough of them that it's worth it provided this is the sort of thing you are looking for.<br />If you are looking for didactic (teaching) poems, I recommend John Hollander's RHYME'S REASON.  If you are looking for an explanation of meter, I suggest Timothy Steele's ALL THE FUN'S IN HOW YOU SAY A THING.  Both of them are also more readily available.	2003-07-23
US	48275179	R1CI5SE3R0Y3NF	025331318X	146610254	El Estrecho Dudoso (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Now I want to read more Cardenal	This is the first Cardenal I've read, and I found much to like.  I think Cardenal has proved (much more ably than Pound) that history can be rendered in this sort of poetry.  The eponymous myth of a strait that connects the great oceans, the pursut of which leads many Spaniards to their deaths is only one of poem's conceits.  Each of the 25 cantos is self-contained, and each tells a fragment of the story of the rape of the native populations and the rape of the natural wealth of South America.  Cardenal is judicious with metaphor, quotes deeply from texts, and editorializes in the best way possible: through careful selection of detail, like any good historian.  This is a different read than most modern poetry, even Pound.  I can't say it is my favorite sort of free verse, but the form suits Cardenal's aims.<br />Speaking of form, John Lyons gets it spot on, even delivering some line breaks in better places than the original.  I know this, because the original Spanish is printed on facing pages with the English.  If you are studying Spanish, as I am, this is quite handy, especially since it presents older texts and spellings than are often readily available in direct translation (why I bought it in the first place).  The introduction is plenty informative and the book also thoughtfully contains a glossary of places and people that might be unfamiliar to a North American reader such as myself.  One need not know any specifically Nicaraguan history, although I do recommend you read a little about Cortez and the conquistadors if this is one of your knowledge gaps.<br />History, poetry; Spanish, English: EL DERECHO DUDOSO/THE DOUBTFUL STRAIT strikes a perfect balance.  I am now pursuing the COSMIC CANTICLE (CANTICO COSMICO) translated by Mr. Lyons, and definitely plan to read some of Cardenal's shorter poems, thanks to this.  Strongly recommend.	2003-07-21
US	48275179	R1UZKOR2WX42HF	0374112053	86772670	Berryman's Shakespeare	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A must for Lear-lovers; a skip for Berryman fans	Unless you are preparing a PhD thesis on Berryman, this book will not offer you any insight into his poetic works, including THE DREAM SONGS.  However, for those interested in Shakespeare, it will offer fresh and not-so-fresh insights into Shakespeare's methods, similar to Bloom's SHAKESPEARE: INVENTION OF THE HUMAN.  How interested in Shakespeare must you be?  Well, you have to be into Q's and F's (quartos and folios), obsure Elizabethan personages (William Houghton anyone?), and reading text with lots of u/v j/i substitutions.  John BERRYMAN'S SHAKESPEARE is not much like Anthony BURGESS' SHAKESPEARE, though they are probably next to each other in most libraries.<br />Parts One and Two cover scattershot the entire Shakespearean oeuvre, including CARDENIO and SIR THOMAS MORE, with lots of historical dalliance.  It is clear that Berryman knows his drama Elizabethan, and often the best insights are who was borrowing what plot from whom, if not what words.  His take on HAMLET is standardly Freudian, but I did enjoy his heretical insights into ROMEO &amp; JULIET and A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM as well as his discussion of why the so-called historical 'tetralogies' are actually 'trilogies.'<br />Where this book is a must read, although admittedly for a small number of people, is in Berryman's writings on KING LEAR.  The Introduction prepares you for the massive depth and critical brilliance that Berryman brought to his never-finished edition of the great play.  For those who are excited to hear that Berryman has an arsenal of proof that Q was taken by shorthand during an actual performance, and includes changes the actors made in their lines, the Lear portions are a must.  Covering about half the volume and including Berryman's correspondence with W.W. Greg, the discussion of Lear is a scholar's wet dream, a veritable barrage of evidence and counter-evidence, two tantalizing texts (Q and F) that may represent two equally authorial versions, i.e. Shakespeare rewrote Q to eliminate a character and streamline action for a performance in another context.<br />I have adressed my review to the various readers that may be approaching this book (Berryman fans: don't read; Shakespeare fans: maybe, Lear scholars: read-for-god's-sake-read-it). I hope that my recommendations prove useful.liminate a character and streamline action for a performance in another context.<br />I have adressed my review to the various readers that may be approaching this book (Berryman fans: don't read; Shakespeare fans: maybe, Lear scholars: read-for-god's-sake-read-it). I hope that my recommendations prove useful.	2003-07-19
US	48275179	R1BSO94I0U9VBL	0156881802	6212406	Tartuffe, by Moliere	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A peerless translation	Pulizter-winning poet Richard Wilbur has chosen to dedicate years of his life to making worthy English translations of the plays of Moliere with the idea no one will have to again for a hundred years.  His confidence in his own translations is enormous, and correct.  This is Moliere in the language of today -- direct, witty, insightful, hilarious.  Tartuffe sends up hypocrisy, religious and otherwise, in a bourgeois farce of escalating absurdity.<br />This particular translation won the prestigious Bollingen Prize.  The only thing going against it is that you can essentially get two-for-the-price-of-one by getting Wilbur's Tartuffe and The Misanthrope together in another book.  That book even contains the same introduction.  But why stop there?  I can't praise Wilbur's Molieres highly enough.  If you like The Misanthrope and Tartuffe, check out the other ones, like The School for Wives and Amphitryon, two personal favorites.	2003-06-27
US	48275179	R3TTBCR63TTYNJ	0156605171	990920977	The Misanthrope and Tartuffe	Books	5	23	24	N	N	"Sincerity in excess / Can get you into a very pretty mess"	Here they are.  The Misanthrope and Tartuffe, arguably Moliere's two most famous plays, translated by Pulizter Prize-winner Richard Wilbur, the crown jewels of his poetic output.  These translations are performed all the time, and have proved themselves on the modern stage.  But the effect of them is not lessened by reading, as this bookshelf-ready edition shows.  They are packed with hilarious observations about the pretentions in us all.<br />The Misanthrope is about a man who tells the harshest truth to everyone but himself; Tartuffe about hypocricy in religion.  They read fast and funny, the rhyming couplets of the original faithfully reproduced.  The language seems so natural and witty that you think perhaps these plays weren't written in the seventeenth century.  But they were, this species of farce being extinct these days, except in rare places like The Simpsons.  I can not only unhesitatingly recommend these, but also all of Wilbur's translations of Moliere.  It is rare for a comic author to get such a seriously worthy treatment.  Hooray!	2003-06-19
US	48275179	RQVRLCR33YVWE	0300088329	995840163	Rhyme's Reason: A Guide to English Verse	Books	5	70	71	N	N	Wow!  I am so glad I have this	I can hardly contain myself.  After reading through several books about how to write poetry I came to this one.  Though I am almost jumping for joy, I have a soupcon of sadness, because I wish I had started here.  Hollander's book is like a good poem: concise, entertaining, and ultimately full of wisdom.  Just compare Hollander's examples on forms (in the forms!) to the lackluster examples in The Book of Forms by Lewis Turco.<br />Don't be fooled by the title.  This book is about all aspects of poetry, including free verse (and even 'concrete' poems).  While Rhyme's Reason has a smaller selection of forms than The Book of Forms and a shorter discussion of prosody than All the Fun's in How You Say a Thing, it had more than enough meat for me.  And I can unhesitatingly recommend it for first forays into the appreciation and composition of poetry.  Make sure to get the Third Edition, of the year 2000, which has a few added goodies.  Enjoy!	2003-06-16
US	48275179	R349P30L2U9GVS	1584650222	47553108	The Book of Forms: A Handbook of Poetics	Books	3	41	45	N	N	Jam-packed with forms, flaws	This book has the most poetic forms in one convenient place of any book in my university's library.  It is especially good for Welsh, Irish and Japanese native forms.  However, I have quibbles with the notational system and vanity of the author.<br />His example poems and &quot;translations in the form&quot; are simply not good.  Too many of them are by himself or someone named Wesli Court and they are dull, dull, dull compared to, say, the sparkling examples in John Hollander's Rhyme's Reason.  The form-finder index is a good idea, but since it doesn't include rhyme schemes or line-lengths it requires you to read entries on dozens of forms to find the one you are looking for.  Rather than have the entries organized like an encylopedia, the information is in essay-like paragraphs, requiring extra reading and searching.  Hardly &quot;quick and easy-to-use.&quot;  Finally, his scansion system is inconsistent and sometimes the accents are printed off-alignment, making it difficult to determine which syllables have what value.  The meanings of different symbols change depending on whether the verse is quantitative, accentual-syllabic, pure syllabic or pure accentual; rhymed or partially-rhymed.  He often expects you to intuit which is which.<br />All that said, this book does contain a wealth of information.  If you are looking for a beginning introduction to poetry, I would recommend Rhyme's Reason or Timothy Steele's All the Fun's in How You Say a Thing.  Pros will want this one on the shelf, and will be better able to take it with the necessary salt.	2003-06-16
US	48275179	R3UJPCP60HCI6	0679747362	659610206	The Changing Light at Sandover: A Poem	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	The Modern Epic	After checking out Divine Comedies at the library and reading a few chapters of The Book of Ephraim, I knew I was willing to read the entire epic of The Changing Light at Sandover.  Nearly six months later, after having read and reread Ephraim, Mirabell, Scripts and the Coda (the four sections of Merrill's magnum opus) I am ready to pass judgement.  This epic is great but probably not GREAT.  It requires a very heavy investment from the reader, not unlike Dante's Divine Comedy, or Joyce's later work.  This investment pays dividends, but not the astronomical sort that one hopes when one is flipping through an opera dictionary, trying to discover Merrill's point.<br />Sandover is full of allusions, contradictions, and virtoso poetry, the latter being why I highly recommend it.  As the other reviews tell you here, Merrill, elitist that he is, has not made the work accessible.  Which is fine.  So here is my short list of writers to be familiar with before you read it: Dante, Homer, Auden, Pound, Eliot, Proust, Wagner, Merrill's earlier work, Blake and Yeats.  I also highly recommend Robert Polito's A Reader's Guide to The Changing Light at Sandover, which is more of a handy index followed by a compilation of reviews (including Bloom's and Vendler's) than say, a line-by-line explication of the sort available for Pound's Cantos.  Thankfully, The Changing Light at Sandover does not require that.<br />The Book of Ephraim stands alone and whether you like it will probably be the best gauge of whether you will like the whole of Sandover.  Mirabell I found very difficult going and, in all honesty can probably be skipped, like most people skip Purgatorio.  Scripts for the Pageant is much more fun and The Higher Keys is really of a piece with it, tying up the loose threads.  For all my pessimism, this really is the best modern epic I've found, a thousand times better than The Waste Land or Blake's prophetic works, or even Milton's Paradise Lost.  The poetry and storytelling are so overwhelmingly confident that, once you have assimilated the scattered references, it is easy to get carried away.  Large questions of free will, life after death and the nature of love are tackled with wit and sincerity.  I'm glad I bought it and have it on my bookshelf.  Since I put in the sweat, it is now a treasure-box I can open at any time.so overwhelmingly confident that, once you have assimilated the scattered references, it is easy to get carried away.  Large questions of free will, life after death and the nature of love are tackled with wit and sincerity.  I'm glad I bought it and have it on my bookshelf.  Since I put in the sweat, it is now a treasure-box I can open at any time.	2003-05-27
US	48275179	R14ID19KPPJ0O9	0684838257	882700843	Spoon River Anthology	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A nice stick-it-in-your-pocket edition of a classic	Inspired by The Greek Anthology, a collection of brief poems from the Hellenistic World including epitaphs written from the perspective of the deceased, Edgar Lee Masters wrote a series of monologues spoken by dead townspeople (some more fictional than others) who inhabited Spoon River, the area in Illinois where Abe Lincoln once lived.  Real people include Anne Rutledge (Abe's first girlfriend) and Fiddler Jones, who worked in Lincoln's general store as a boy.<br />But this book isn't about Abraham Lincoln.  It's about the trait that we will all, both saints and sinners, one day have in common: death.  And it is about the small triumphs of life that the dead remember.  Just as William Carlos Williams was a doctor, and his poetry was informed by his contact with everyday people, so too Masters.  He was a lawyer and a keen observationist.  He writes directly and frankly, especially about male-female relations, which earned this book a bit of a scandalous reputation in its time.  Of course, it is mild enough today that the book is assigned reading in junior highs, even in the South.<br />I've read this book three times through, and often re-read individual favorites.  And I have it in easy reach on my shelf because I plan to keep re-reading it.  There is something about the people of Spoon River and their sentiments that keeps me coming back.  As May Swenson says, in her introduction to this edition, Masters \\"bequeathed to us a world in microcosm.\\"  A world, in my opinion, worth exploring again and again.	2003-05-24
US	48275179	RBS717S5FU9O9	0571211070	787024884	Blue Surge: A Play	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Look elsewhere	This play had a short run at The Public Theater in New York last year, where I happened to catch it.  While there are flashes of wit and emotion in the writing, backing up the many praises Gilman has received, the play as a whole fails to cohere.  It's ostensibly about a cop who falls in love with a hooker, but the relationship never gets deeper than a lesson in botany.  The exterior drama becomes more than a little kitchen-sink convenient, especially near the end.<br />I'll admit, I haven't read or seen any other Gilman plays.  But from what I hear, you may be better off working your way through them (especially CHURNING INTO BUTTER) before reading this one.	2003-05-20
US	48275179	RD88FLLGVH9BP	8481301531	344256365	Romancero Gitano/Poeta En Nueva York (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Two classics / Las dos obras classicas	Lorca's \\"Gypsy Romances\\", written in the Andalusian cante jondo (\\"deep song\\") style, is a collection of strange and beautiful ballads. His \\"Poet in New York\\" is quite different. It contains surrealist impressions of his time in the titular city. Both exhibit the quality of \\"duende\\" for which Lorca is justly acclaimed. If you are not already familiar with these two world-famous works, you might want to look for editions that have English translations on facing pages. \\"Poet in New York\\" can get especially involved.<br />This book looks like the type used in high school classrooms. It is hardback, but the pages are cheap and pulpy. Oh well. I plan to write English glosses in all the margins anyway. It's great to get two of Lorca's masterpieces together and at this price. Beware: it took two months for them to ship this. I think they have to order it special because it is printed in Madrid. The book also contains a prologue by Carlos Bousono-- also (por supuesto) in Spanish.	2003-05-13
US	48275179	R1VC1JP2XAFO2T	0691073562	203497234	Judaism, Christianity, and Islam	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Great as a textbook but...	I took Peters' class at NYU and found this book to be an excellent companion for studying the monotheistic traditions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam.  His commentary is brief and informative and one is impressed with his ability to translate the relevant languages: Greek, Latin, Hebrew, Aramaic and Arabic.  The organization of the book is also perfect for this sort of study.<br />The question is... what else is the book good for?  It certainly can't replace having a Bible, a Torah, a Koran and all the other relevant texts that are excerpted.  Most people who come to this book will probably be from one of the three faiths.  For them, I think this book will be profitable in putting passages they know very well next to passages from the other faiths of which they know little.  For those outside the monotheistic tradition, this is an excellent primer.<br />For those who have studied religion and theology already, this book may not be as useful.  Perhaps as a resource?  Also, it's a big book.  You have to really be interested in the comparison of the three faiths to tackle it.  Bottom line: even though Peters is a lucid writer, this book is not beach-reading.  And it's not quite encyclopedic enough to be a reference.  I can't recommend it for all.<br />PS.  I managed to find a used hard-cover very cheap on this site.  The hardcover is nice but not very portable (as a textbook).  If you are going paperback, get the three separate volumes.  Then maybe you can take it to the beach.	2003-05-12
US	48275179	R2FTMVVSBE3VQW	0156002116	48714404	Amphitryon, by Molire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wilbur scores again!	Wilbur faithfully reproduces some of Moliere's more experimental versification in this update of Plautus' Amphitruo, the story of Greek general who is impersonated by the god Jupiter-- so that Jupiter can share a bed with his wife!  Moliere, a master of farce, plays this mistaken identity to its comic hilt.<br />Wilbur's translation here is peerless and his Afterword is wonderfully informative.  This is not my favorite of his Moliere translations (I like The School for Wives and The Misanthrope) but I'd be hard-pressed to name a fault.  Voltaire said of this play, &quot;I laughed so hard that I fell over backwards.&quot;  I didn't fall over backwards, but I got a good chuckle or two out if it.	2003-04-25
US	48275179	RKW2JKD2YW3E0	0156795027	456697822	The School for Wives and The Learned Ladies, by Moliere: Two comedies in an acclaimed translation.	Books	5	24	24	N	N	My favorite of the Molieres by Wilbur	I've read all but one of Pulitzer-Prize winner Richard Wilbur's translations of French master playwright Moliere.  This is my favorite.  I was provoked to laugh out loud many times while reading it, something I rarely do with contemporary comedies, much less ones written in the 17th Century. The School for Wives I found more fresh and delightful than any present-day television sit-com and The Learned Ladies had its moments as well (especially the poetry reading by the pedantic Trissotin).<br />The School for Wives centers around a man, Arnolfe, who is afraid of being cuckolded. He has raised a girl from when she was very young to know nothing but praying and sewing, so that when she marries she will not have the wherewithal to cheat on him. Of course, a young man in the neighborhood happens to see her while Arnolfe is out. In a series of misunderstandings, the young man ends up enlisting Arnolfe's aid in wooing the girl. Arnolfe's every attempt to thwart their union is in turn thwarted by her. She may have been raised ignorant, but she is not stupid.<br />The Learned Ladies is, in present context, somewhat misogynist. Much of the comedy revolves around the matriarch of a family who rules her household \\"like a man.\\" The plot again involves young lovers separated by a willful parent. The daughter of the matriarch wants to wed a young man who is equally in love with her but her mother wants her to wed the stuck-up court poet Trissotin. This is really just a pretext for a lot of the deflation of pomposity at which Moliere excels. For those who like the old battle-of-the-sexes screwball comedies, here is a likely progenitor.<br />The most famous of Moliere's plays are The Misanthrope, The Hypocondriac and Tartuffe.  If you've already read them and like them, then I have no reservation recommending this delightful double-header.	2003-04-25
US	48275179	R36BA74US8GLUN	0140443622	583302544	The Rise of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	57	62	N	Y	For what it is -- quite excellent	Many other reviewers on this site lament all that has been cut from this translation. The decision, of course, was not entirely up to Penguin. A great portion of Polybius' work has been lost to the ravages of history. Other surviving portions are quite repetitive. As someone with an interest in the history but not a consuming scholarly passion, I found the selections well-chosen and fascinating; the translation readable. What more can you ask?<br />F.W. Walbank's long-winded introduction told me much more than I ever needed to know about this second-tier historian. What makes Polybius valuable is that he actually played a part in some of the events he described and seems to have prized first-hand sources, interviewing people involved and consulting contemporary documents, especially in the Roman Senate. As a Greek who had spent time in Rome, he wrote the history primarily for his fellow Greeks, to explain how a nothing civilization (Rome) on the edge of the Hellenistic World rose to power so quickly.<br />The account of Rome's Wars with Carthage is very even-handed and compelling. In other passages, his Greek prejudices often show through. Especially when he is talking about rival historians like Timaeus. He devotes a whole chapter, in fact, to insulting Timaeus. The chapter shows you something of Polybius' character that he would stop his history of the world to engage in academic fisticuffs.<br />This book functions well as an explanation of Rome to a non-Roman. I learned a great deal about the character of Rome and the Romans as well as all the Hellenistic kingdoms. At 541 pages, no one can accuse this of being a reader's digest version. The appendix includes nice maps and all the sections are titled so that one can easily flip through and find the portion in the chapter \\"Affairs in Greece\\" on \\"The Character of Philip.\\" I guess what you have to ask yourself is whether you are already an expert on the history of the Mediterranean World from 200 to 146 BCE. If so, you are probably beyond Penguin editions like this one.you are probably beyond Penguin editions like this one.	2003-04-24
US	48275179	R2J0E521FQV1TG	0613263596	877895430	New and Collected Poems (Harvest Book)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A dynamite collection from a formalist master	This Pulitzer Prize-winning collection contains all of Wilbur (except his great translations of Moliere and Racine) in reverse chronological order of his books from 1989 to 1954.  This is the opposite of most poetry collections, so it seems strange to have the poems get less confident as you read on.  Still, the final poem, \\"The Beautiful Changes,\\" is near-perfect and perfectly sums up Wilbur's paradoxical outlook: beauty is eternal and ever-changing.<br /><br />Wilbur is old school.  He is all about meter and rhyme and beauty.  His command of sound and sense is second to none alive.  (He has edited a collection of Poe's poetry and is famed for his accurate verse translations of Moliere's plays.)<br /><br />As I read through this book, I put a star by every poem I liked.  Flipping through it now, I see there is a star by almost every poem.  I did not find Wilbur as deep or as challenging as Frost or Yeats, poets he is compared to by other reviewers on this site.  I can, however, appreciate his mastery of the craft of formal poetry.  This is not some bad pseudo-Shelley but really a poetry in the language of our time about the issues of our time.<br /><br />If you detest rhyme, complex stanzas and short, potent lyrics, by all means avoid Mr. Wilbur.  But if you find delight in the artful manipulation of language then you are depriving yourself of happiness in not reading this collection.<br /><br />UPDATE: Wilbur has released a new COLLECTED POEMS in 2004 that supecedes this edition.  It only adds a score or so of poems, but I recommend it because there are a few new ones like \\"Man Running\\" that no Wilbur fan should be without.	2003-04-24
US	48275179	RA48BLLJROMVH	0679746536	383314341	The Cryptogram	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Cryptogram of a Play	This is a strange, elliptical play. I did not enjoy it as much as some of the other Mamet maniacs here, but I will admit that, in the months since I've read it, I just can't get it out of my head.<br />A lot of this play exists in the subtext of the language and in Mamet's clever \\"uses of the knife.\\" Since it is very hard to imagine it off the page, much of the time it seems like nothing is happening. I would like to see the play performed, but I think it is unlikely. Finding a ten-year-old who can pull off such a complicated role is probably too much of a headache for most theater producers.<br />This play is, yes, different than a Glen Garry or American Buffalo. But it is still full of Mamet. If the maestro floats your boat, go for it.	2003-03-17
US	48275179	R3UG9H28WNSRNA	0140442537	616532042	The Campaigns of Alexander (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	The main source on Alexander	Although Arrian is not always reliable, he's what we have.  He brought to together a number of sources to write this account which goes more or less linearly through all of Alexander's major battles, the rebellions, and his death.<br />The text sometimes includes dialogue that is almost certainly made up but is also quite fun.  Likewise the descriptions of the battles and the numbers of troops on each side.  Arrian doesn't omit the legends either, like the 'untying' of the Gordian knot.<br />This translation is magnificent.  It is accurate and utterly readable, with minimal but effective notes.  If you have great interest in Alexander this is the book to read.  This is what all the historians base their accounts on and it is sure to be the basis for the upcoming films.	2003-03-17
US	48275179	R9IMCA5NTJME8	0674387260	943307682	The Hellenistic World: Revised Edition	Books	3	16	21	N	Y	Tough going, better as a supplement	I'm glad I read this along with the class that assigned it as a textbook.  It is enormously informative, comprehensive, and concise.<br />Unfortunately, it is almost unreadable.  Walbank assumes the reader has a familiarity with a lot of ancient persons (many with the same names) and customs (cult of Arsinoe, anyone?).  If you want to know about Alexander the Great, I suggest you go straight to the horse's mouth and read Penguin's edition of Arrian's _Life of Alexander_.<br />Likewise, grab a book on the Ptolemies, one on the Macedonians, the Selefkids and the early Romans.  Then maybe this book will make some sense.	2003-03-17
US	48275179	R2AH50DN3B6JF5	0521794641	817222176	The Cambridge Introduction to Spanish Poetry: Spain and Spanish America (Cambridge Introductions to Literature)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A survey of Spanish poetry that goes beyond it	Walters' lucid prose manages neither to talk down to the reader nor get too academic.  This is intended as a college-level text but I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in poetry in Spanish.<br />Some background with Spanish poetry and the language is helpful, although it is not necessary.  Every quote (they are frequent and generous!) is followed by an English paraphrase in clear prose.  Walters surveys generally at first then breaks everything down by genre: Epic, Ballad, Songs and Sonnets, Love poetry, Religious and Satire/Burlesqe.<br />His theoretical framework is informed by Harold Bloom's idea of 'the anxiety of influence' but thankfully not overwhelmed by it.  I learned an enormous amount about poetry, not just Spanish poetry, by reading this book.  Walters impressed me as a sensitive reader and critic.<br />Authors quoted in this book include: El Cid author, Manrique, Luis de Gongora, Lope de Vega, Quevedo, Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, Jose de Espronceda, Jose Hernandez, Becquer, Miguel de Unamuno, Dario, Antonio and Manuel Machado, Vicente Huidobro, Pedro Salinas, Gerardo Diego, Lorca, Borges, Rafael ALberti, Luis Cernuda, Pablo Neruda, Octavio Paz, Blas de Otero, Ana Rosetti, Gioconda Belli and more.	2003-03-12
US	48275179	R2U7XNRQVUVEKY	0689707363	716965447	Selected Poems	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Review and correction	Correction to Amazon: This review seems to also be appearing on the pages of Selected Poems by Osip Mandelstam.<br />The \\"Selected Poems\\" we are actually talking about here (ISBN 0-689-70736-3) are W.S. Merwin's from 1952-1983. Since then he has published several more books of poetry, but they probably won't become part of a collection like this any time soon. (Merwin was reluctant to create this one.)<br />He shouldn't have been so reluctant. This is great, managable and cheap(!) way to meet Merwin, a major poet of our day who people just won't stop talking about. He's the most-published by The Atlantic magazine and he's had a remarkably varied career--as this 'Selection' attests.<br />His first few books (one of which was selected by W.H. Auden for the Yale Series of Younger Poets Award) are more formal and mythological. In _The Moving Target_ he starts swerving away from punctuation and conventional sytax eventually ending up in a place where...<br />a man with his eyes shut swam upward<br />through dark water and came to air<br />it was the horizon<br />he felt his way along it and it opened<br />and let the sun out<br />Not all of these poems are winners, in my opinion. But this is Merwin's pick of the litter and whatever seems a runt to me may just be bacon to you. Merwin's aesthetic gets more and more transparent that way. Buy it here used.<br />Oh and P.S. The book in this collection that won the Pulizter was _The Carrier of Ladders_.	2003-02-22
US	48275179	R1ICBSZIIH7Q25	0819560235	87184743	An Anthology of Twentieth-Century Brazilian Poetry (Wesleyan Poetry in Translation)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A gem and a marvelous introduction to Brazilian Poetry	Not only does this book (edited by no less an authority on poetry and Brazil than Elizabeth Bishop) contain poems by such greats as Carlos Drummond de Andrade, Vin&iacute;cius de Moraes, Joo Cabral de Melo Neto and Manuel Bandeira-- but it has on the facing page translations by such respected greats as James Merill, W.S. Merwin, Mark Strand and Bishop.<br />The selections are neither too much nor too little.  If, like me, you are learning Portuguese, the originals can be studied easily.  The quality of the English translations is exceptionally high, many of them great poems in their own right.  I credit Bishop and her co-editor Emanuel Brasil, whose introduction is brief and effectively sets the scene.<br />In Brazil, poetry is widely respected and read.  The poets in this anthology are part of the generation that has broken away from the more rigid forms and themes of Portuguese and continental poetry.  Poets like Vin&iacute;cius de Moraes deserve to be known for more than writing the lyrics to &quot;Girl from Ipanema&quot; (he needed the money).  This is their due.  This anthology has introduced me to several poets I now plan to explore in greater depth.<br />Brazil is famous for its gems.  It is clear this literary gem comes from a very rich mine.	2003-02-17
US	48275179	R2OKE9B7U5WL5Z	0374518173	254886596	The Complete Poems: 1927-1979	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Can't be ignored	No matter what sort of poetry you are drawn to--and here I include the Beowulf poet, the Metaphysical poets, the Modernists, etc.--Elizabeth Bishop can't be ignored. Her poems, from set forms like the villanelle \\"One Art\\" (\\"The art of losing isn't hard to master.\\") to the patchwork of imagery that is \\"The Fish\\" are all at the peak of expression.  Bishop demonstrates virtuousity in a number of forms of poetry in this (relatively) slim volume. I especially appreciate her poems on travel and Brazil. This is a dead writer whose ideas of culture are still ahead of our time.<br />This book is a treasure trove. It rewards multiple readings. Bishop's craftsmanship has ensured that this book will continue to endure even as bigger names of her era fall by the wayside.	2003-01-31
US	48275179	R1VAESDDIIMQE6	155936209X	904239567	Homebody/Kabul	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A feast of language	I was fortunate enough to see this performed in New York last year.  This play unleashes great torrents of language and ideas at every turn and is the theatrical equivalent of a clusterbomb.  Yet, with time to read and mull, it becomes something quite different.<br />Years of work and research are hung on the frame of a simple melodrama about a father and daughter searching in a strange country for a wife and mother.  Kushner's mythical Afghanistan is a place where the tower of Babel toppled and people speak everything from Russian to Esperanto.  The hapless British thrust into this burka'd world will never grasp that we in the west have &quot;succumbed to luxury&quot; -- though perhaps the audience will.<br />Some other reviewers found the Homebody's monologue dull on the page.  I assure you it is quite stirring in performance.  The same may be said of much of the play which, like Angels in America, is unwieldy but brilliant.  Kushner has admitted in interviews that the play should be trimmed but I think, when reading the play, the overambitiousness is a plus.  Kushner is a playwright with a social consciousness, but also a literary and poetic conscientiousness.  The use of 'sunny' as an adjective recalls Sunni and the etymology of Quango's name is a play unto itself.<br />This play is 'about' too many things to effectively say what it is about.  I appreciate it as a feast of language and a virtuoso display of Kushner's talent.  While it may run long and fail to cohere thematically, it is shorter and more thematically coherent than Angels.  What is a clusterbomb in the theater is chocolate cake when iced with covers.	2003-01-24
US	48275179	R2UD5TRC045OB6	0465072690	447841735	Words And Rules: The Ingredients Of Language (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Applied linguistics	This book may strike some as mind-blowing and some as dull, depending upon your familiarity and interest in the subject.  I, for one, found it perfectly suited to my high interest in language and how the mind works.  I recommend browsing the book at a local store to get a feel for it.  As academic writing goes, this is hardly dry.  Pinker writes lucidly and with great humor, using the idea of regular and irregular verbs (!) to explore diverse topics in modern science.  I read it with hunger.  A great soft introduction to linguistics, and to the nature of the human brain.	2002-12-23
US	48275179	R2ZA078P3HNH9M	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Gatsby lives!	This book has lost none of its punch.  Fitzgerald's prose is heartachingly lyrical, the story tawdry and the times legendary.  I have read it thrice now and it only gets better.<br />For those who want a basic plot sketch, here is my take:<br />Wealthy man (a bootlegger?) Jay Gatsby moves into a mansion across the bay from his former lover and throws a continual party in hopes of winning her from her husband.  The carnal excesses of the Jazz Age ensure that this won't end happily for anyone, including the seemingly detached narrator, Nick Carraway.<br />Kids, skip the Cliff's Notes and just read this one.  It's short and beautiful.	2002-08-16
US	48275179	RHN891K1X89KG	0472060635	442996073	Poems from the Greek Anthology (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	My favorite English translation	I've read all the English translations (and even some of these poems in the original Greek).  This collection, while small, is the best English &quot;Greek Anthology&quot; going.  Quick check: in &quot;The Norton Book of Classical Literature&quot; the Rexroth excerpts shine compared to the other (highly respected) translators.<br />In terms of directness and emotional resonance Rexroth, &quot;the father of the beats,&quot; triumphs again and again.  For those who want to explore one of the world's greatest collections of poetry, this is a good place to start.  For those interested in translation, there is much to learn from this volume.<br />The real Greek Anthology is massive and not all the poems are winners.  Rexroth has boiled it down to his favorites and in so doing created perhaps the best poems he ever wrote.  Those who want a deeper exploration should go to the library.  To those who want to add to the bookshelf, this is the essential volume.	2002-08-16
US	48275179	RXNDSYJ3UKGK8	0520024273	859768015	The Pound Era	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A great work of lit. criticism with a pinch of history	This is an impressive read.  I came to it at just the right time in my life.  I had been reading the poems of Marianne Moore and Buckminster Fuller as well as studying Ancient Greek.  This is a dense but ultimately very rewarding book.  It incorporates passages of troubadour lyric and Greek and name-drops a lot of historical characters with which you may or may not be familiar.  For those interested in Pound and his times, I highly recommend it.  For those unsure, check out the excerpts that Amazon provides.  This is not everyone's cup of tea.  But, as I said, I came to this at the right time in my life.	2002-08-16
US	48275179	R3NA8L2LLMFMBG	1879505444	219169409	The Screenwriter's Bible: A Complete Guide to Writing, Formatting, and Selling Your Script	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very good, but not comprehensive	This is a great all-purpose screenwriting book, especially in terms of formatting. It is the only one I know of that is the proper size to truly demonstrate correct margins and layout. Unfortunately, screenwriting is a lot more than just format. There is a history to writing stories for the big-screen that this book neglects. Yes, it does have a lot of tips and answers to questions for beginning screenwriters. But don't fool yourself into thinking you know everything there is to know about screenwriting if you read cover to cover.<br />Not quite reference, not quite workbook, The Screenwriter's Bible could save you buying two (or more) books. In that way it's a value. But do yourself a favor and also get the skinny from someone in the industry.	2002-08-16
US	48275179	R3DMKVSP9TV7NL	0809005271	11512451	Aristotle's Poetics (Dramabook,)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Where art theory began	This book (or perhaps just a portion of Aristotle's lecture notes) remains the acorn of an oak of subjects, from art criticism to playwriting to poetry.  This is a clear, accurate translation (it helped me pass a test in Ancient Greek; and people who really know assure me).  The text is no-frills and the introduction is brief but informative.  This is probably not for scholars who will want to quibble over the meaning of 'phusis' and 'techne' but for the general reader who will be infinitely enriched by a philospical masterwork.  Unlike other such masterworks, this one is short and readable!	2002-08-16
US	48275179	R2MSHM99B2UKMI	0941188701	337935740	The Writers Journey: Mythic Structure for Writers, 2nd Edition	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	A starting point	Written down to studio executives with low IQs and short attention spans, nevertheless this book still manages to be informative.<br />Basically cribbed entirely from Joseph Campbell's &lt;u&gt;Hero with a Thousand Faces&lt;/u&gt;, this book parcels out the jargon of archetypes into easy-to-swallow tablets.  It is ultimately useful on the most basic levels in creating story and character.  I'd like to see the next edition better structured and written for adults... but I can't deny the value of what Vogler teaches.  Beginners: You will outgrow this book quickly but that doesn't mean it isn't useful.	2002-08-16
