US	48282789	R2IP8XE9RESVU4	0976763117	933048000	Lost Star of Myth and Time	Books	5	143	148	N	N	Intriguing Hypothesis Seeks Scientific Proof	Walter Cruttendon has done a vast amount of research on the subjects of ancient and modern astronomy, scientific findings of extinct cultures, and the many surviving myths and legends of the past. From these studies the author developed unique insights. His perspective of the earth, time, and its place in space ... is a very fascinating reading experience. His hypothesis is based on connections he has made from ancient and modern astronomical and scientific discoveries. He noted one main distinguishing difference between ancient and modern man is the concept of time. Modern man is obsessed with a linear focus - seeming to view events and discoveries on the basis of evolution, going from the simpler to more complex level. Ancient cultures however, viewed time as cyclical, even the Old Testament speaks of a time and season for every purpose and event. The ancient Babylonians, the Egyptians who built the pyramids, the shamans of the Hopi Indians of North America, the Mayan Indians of Central America, and the oldest civilization in the world which existed in India - all had an obsession with time. They demonstrated this knowledge by tracking the stars in the heavens and leaving monuments which are often records of their discoveries. Noting the abundant scientific evidence for the cyclical nature of many biological, physiological, and chemical life processes ... the author noted that ancient people had recognized patterns and cycles of the stars and its causes. The author describes how modern scientists view the concept called \\"celestial motion of precession\\" and its causes. The author provides detailed explanations why his view supports what the ancient Arabic, Sumerian, Mithraic, and Vedic traditions hinted at ... that our sun is influenced by another star. This other star (or sun) could affect many aspects of life on earth through its orbital cycle, gravitational pull and magnetic energies. This other star could be the cause of the cyclical nature of many natural events from the ancient past, the modern present, and future life on earth.<br /><br />The author obviously loves his subject and does a phenomenal job of sharing his knowledge and deep insights. He has a wonderful grasp of the science of astronomy. He lucidly explains and describes difficult concepts and ideas on this subject. Each suspense filled chapter is an adventurous read which unfolds fascinating ancient scientific knowledge of astronomical observations comparing it to the modern scientific view. The author includes a very helpful glossary for complicated terms and unfamiliar concepts. He provides a wonderful bibliography referenced by footnotes in each chapter where supporting data and the ideas can be verified by any curious reader. There is a terrific appendix with eight sections which is an added bonus that includes otherwise difficult to obtain information. The author created the four tiered Galileo Awards each with a substantial monetary award attached, in order to challenge the scientific community to provide the scientific evidence required to prove once and for all ... the existence of the binary twin associated with our sun. I give 10 stars to this book as recommendation for anyone interested in ancient cultures, myths, and astronomy.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)ts from the ancient past, the modern present, and future life on earth.<br /><br />The author obviously loves his subject and does a phenomenal job of sharing his knowledge and deep insights. He has a wonderful grasp of the science of astronomy. He lucidly explains and describes difficult concepts and ideas on this subject. Each suspense filled chapter is an adventurous read which unfolds fascinating ancient scientific knowledge of astronomical observations comparing it to the modern scientific view. The author includes a very helpful glossary for complicated terms and unfamiliar concepts. He provides a wonderful bibliography referenced by footnotes in each chapter where supporting data and the ideas can be verified by any curious reader. There is a terrific appendix with eight sections which is an added bonus that includes otherwise difficult to obtain information. The author created the four tiered Galileo Awards each with a substantial monetary award attached, in order to challenge the scientific community to provide the scientific evidence required to prove once and for all ... the existence of the binary twin associated with our sun. I give 10 stars to this book as recommendation for anyone interested in ancient cultures, myths, and astronomy.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-10-08
US	48282789	R3SVLC7BPUG2DH	0394536339	535536634	Return Trips	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Adventure, Romance, Discoveries: Stories About Travel	Alice Adams writes fifteen stories ... each about some travel experience ... every story is different from the other and captures or explores some human emotion, self-discovery, personal quest, conflict or innner turmoil, or gradual awakening to some deeper aspect of being human and alive.<br /><br />In \\"You are What You Own: A Notebook\\", a married couple inherit antique furniture after the death of one of their parents. The author explores the emotional ties of one partner to the furniture. The reader is drawn to how the author examines their marriage through the eyes of the other spouse who comes to unusual discoveries about her self and what she considers important in life. Ultimately, Helen totally surprises herself and the reader by her actions. The deeply engaging story \\"Return Trips\\" is about the romance between two people who are wildly in love. The reader learns it is a May/December relationship and Carl has a congenital heart condition, which essentially means ... he is dying. Oblivious to or blocking out the inevitable, they live a carefree existence on an island off the shore of Northern Yugoslavia. Told from the first person view, the main character revisits this island many years later, after she is married and has a successful career. She compares her current feelings and life situation to the memories of those idyllic times in the past. She resolves certain problems in her life by reliving the strong passionate emotions of the past. The story \\"Time in Sante Fe\\" examines the unexpected unusual friendship between a straight female and a gay male. They agree to meet in Santa Fe, New Mexico, stay at a hotel together and  explore the city and sights. This trip renews their friendship and reinforces their positive feelings for each other. Most importantly it helps them transcend everyday reality to see life from new perspectives. It fulfills each of them in ways they did not imagine. Another extraordinairy story is \\"Elizabeth\\",  a highly educated and cultured lady with a fine Austrian accent, who touches the lives of two people very deeply. Minerva, a law student, is \\"house-sitting\\" when her parents, both psychologists, leave town for a conference. Due to sheer boredom, Minerva invites Elizabeth, the neighbor, over for a swim. She becomes life-long friends with this world-traveler with whom she can share her cultural interests, intimate thoughts, everyday problems and hobbies - more so than with her own parents. Elizabeth buys a house on a beach in Mexico and invites, Judson,a poet, and Minerva, a lawyer ... The two are distantly cordial and each make assumptions about the other's relationship with Elizabeth. Elizabeth's intentions are not clear ... until an unexpected event draws Judson and Minerva closer together. All the stories are contemporary and thoroughly enjoyable to read.<br /><br />Each story is deeply engaging and captures the readers interest from the beginning. The reader is magnitized and kept glued to the pages as emotions and events are explored, revealing nuances of meaning and transformational experiences. The stories are magical in how they portray the lives of ordinairy or extraordinairy people in either exotic locales or in everyday situations revealing perceptive insights.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)red lady with a fine Austrian accent, who touches the lives of two people very deeply. Minerva, a law student, is \\"house-sitting\\" when her parents, both psychologists, leave town for a conference. Due to sheer boredom, Minerva invites Elizabeth, the neighbor, over for a swim. She becomes life-long friends with this world-traveler with whom she can share her cultural interests, intimate thoughts, everyday problems and hobbies - more so than with her own parents. Elizabeth buys a house on a beach in Mexico and invites, Judson,a poet, and Minerva, a lawyer ... The two are distantly cordial and each make assumptions about the other's relationship with Elizabeth. Elizabeth's intentions are not clear ... until an unexpected event draws Judson and Minerva closer together. All the stories are contemporary and thoroughly enjoyable to read.<br /><br />Each story is deeply engaging and captures the readers interest from the beginning. The reader is magnitized and kept glued to the pages as emotions and events are explored, revealing nuances of meaning and transformational experiences. The stories are magical in how they portray the lives of ordinairy or extraordinairy people in either exotic locales or in everyday situations revealing perceptive insights.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-09-23
US	48282789	R3HOGEPQK4HVV6	1565124073	819041260	My Old True Love	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Lightening Strike  Ending Is a Total Surprise!	Sheila Ray Adams writes a thoroughly enjoyable novel using the voice, eyes and ears of Arty Norton, the mother of ten children living in the mid- to late 1800s around the time of the Civil War. She captures the honesty, simplicity and beauty of the Appalachian lifestyle. Based very loosely on the loves and lives of two of her male ancestors who lived in North Carolina and fought during the Civil War, she describes their close relationship and the complex emotions which ran deep during the unfolding of their interwoven lives. Arty tells us how some people have a longer and harder row to hoe in life than others and that is just how it is. She tells how Larkin Stanton was born, just before his mother died in childbirth and how he and Hackley Norton, his cousin, of age 4 or 5 years, became inseparable best friends throughout their lives ... even as they both woooed the same beautiful red-haired, freckle faced girl ... whom eventually one of them courted and married.<br /><br />The reader is drawn to the cycles of time, community and social relations ... as it is lived in the mountains of North Carolina. The author includes her love of music and ballads throughout the novel in a highly creative manner. The ballads date back to the 1700s when immigrants from the British isles first settled the Appalachian Mountains. She occasionally includes lyrics to songs, using all the verses to dramatize the plot and story in a very effective manner. There is a nostalgic longing in this reader to live the more simple but physically harsh life described in this novel. The author gradually reveals the complex and deep emotions of the main characters. Her descriptions of mountain romance is highly engaging. As the multi-layered lives of the characters are presented, the apparent outward simplicity of events is shown in different hues of color, like the visual effects of a hand-sewn quilt. The patterns become more evident the longer the eyes read the book. There is one square pattern in the piece that stands out from the rest, almost shocking in its color and boldness. The reader is lulled into the cyles and patterns of life, until the Civil War changes everything. Reading this novel is like walking through a gallery of artwork, where one recognizes the era and style of brushstrokes but then ... one very unusual painting is striking in its contrast. In this novel, the ending is a huge bolt of lightening, unexpected in its impact ... yet ... in retrospect ... one should have seen it coming. Reading this book will be a pleasure for anyone interested in the Civil War era.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)he piece that stands out from the rest, almost shocking in its color and boldness. The reader is lulled into the cyles and patterns of life, until the Civil War changes everything. Reading this novel is like walking through a gallery of artwork, where one recognizes the era and style of brushstrokes but then ... one very unusual painting is striking in its contrast. In this novel, the ending is a huge bolt of lightening, unexpected in its impact ... yet ... in retrospect ... one should have seen it coming. Reading this book will be a pleasure for anyone interested in the Civil War era.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-09-15
US	48282789	R1WCS6P6MCUUM7	0140058435	477049399	Hunting the Wild Pineapple	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eccentric Lives: The Lost and Found	Keith Leverson [from the book, \\"The Slow Natives\\", also by Thea Astley] has lived and experienced life on many levels ... most often painfully on the emotional and physical planes. He survived a life-threatening auto accident that left him introspective, much more so than during his rebellious teenage years. He has become a keen observer of human nature. This book shares his penetrating insights into the human condition. It describes his experiences and the lives of the odd unusual young people who are looking for meaning outside conventional society. In the words of the author, \\"They're the new urban trendies ... They're crawling back to the good earth in their hunt for feudal share-cropping, buying up their 5-, 10-, 20- acre blocks, living with a roof, a tamped earth floor, and hessian sides.\\" [p.19]<br /><br />Thea Astley has a wry sense of humor expressed with razor edged clarity and precision. Leverson describes himself as a \\"monoped self-pitier\\" (referring to the amputation of his leg in the previous book). He is a \\"people person\\" enjoying humanity in all its frailty and courage. The first story challenges a tuba playing self-destructive wrist-slashing young female to share her self in a commune with several male partners ... She had become a convert to Christianity, a Jesus freak, and was urged to be \\"generous\\" and Christian in her expression of this alternative lifestyle. One of the most intriguing stories was \\"Ladies Need Only Apply\\". Stringer, a macrobiotic gardner and musician lived way out in the wildnerness. He placed a want ad ... seeking a \\"genuine lady\\" to be his companion. Miss Klein had recently turned 42 and was looking for adventure, something to erase her boredom. She found herself oddly attracted to the aging hippie who placed the ad. While he advocated \\"free love\\" and a natural lifestyle ... he did not coerce her into his pattern of living although, gradually he wore down her resistance and she succombed. She became more of a slave to him who advocated freedom than she would have within any conventional relationship. The author uses superior descriptions and imagery to create unforgettable and unusual characters. The odd lives they lead weave a hypnotic spell over the reader who is drawn to their bizarre behavor and strange lifestyles ... wanting to see how the other half lives. Erika Borsos (erikab93)advocated freedom than she would have within any conventional relationship. The author uses superior descriptions and imagery to create unforgettable and unusual characters. The odd lives they lead weave a hypnotic spell over the reader who is drawn to their bizarre behavor and strange lifestyles ... wanting to see how the other half lives. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-09-10
US	48282789	R1XHKTFJM10KXG	0399138757	137089471	Slow Natives	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Life Cycles of a Family Intersect, Collide, and Reunite	This book tracks the life of the Leverson family on three levels: the emotional, mental, and physical. As they carry on their everyday lives, the reader is drawn into the depth of their existence on all these levels through the creative, serious, humorous, and satirical writing style of the author. The reader is mesmerized by the numerous stories about the lives of this family during the integration, disintegration and resolution of various life problems that separate each member from the other. Eventually the family reunites due to a serious crisis which threatens one vulnerable family member, Keith.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to the lonely existence of Keith as he engages in attention-getting behaviors, such as petty theft, trying to force his dad to express strong emotions toward Keith -any emotional involvement would gratify Keith. Bernard is a mild-mannered easy going gentleman who teaches music to various levels of students. He tests the students proficiency to determine their skills, aptitude and abilities for more serious piano study. One of the most highly captivating stories within the book involved Bernard as he tested a pretty precocious female teenage student who used her awkening s#xual energy to her advantage. Amazingly, she was a highly talented pianist and Bernard was drawn to her energy but he kept it well within the bounds of a proper \\"student and teacher\\" relationship. However, his special attention to Eva did not go unnoticed by one of the nuns who taught Eva at the Catholic boarding school she attended. As it turned out, the nun, Sister Matthew, also studied the piano and was taking examinations with Bernard to gain her qualifications and proper credentials to teach piano ... Sister Matthew became jealous over a small incident that she noticed had passed between Bernard and Eva. Bernard was caught unprepared for the aftermath of this petty jealousy (of which he was unaware). He became the victim of an unfounded accusation, via an anonymous letter which alleged inappropriate behavior ... Meanwhile Iris was carrying on an affair with the male partner of a couple who was in their circle of friends. Through different means, Bernard learned of the affair ... and so did Keith their son. To Keith's consternation, Bernard did not show any emotion and let the situation continue ...<br /><br />Keith was testing his limits as a rebellious teenager. He grew up into young adulthood without any strong interests in life or a clear path or goal. He tried college, he worked at many jobs and ended up as a drifter and finally a surfer on the beach. The family had not heard from him for quite a while and Bernard and Iris accused each other of failing to raise him properly ... A phone call aroused both Bernard and Iris from bed. It made them finally realize what is most important to a family. Thea Astely possesses a very unique writing gift, the ability to weave complex emotions and deeply moving life experiences of many different characters into a seamless whole. As an author from Australia she uses her special knowledge and experience of her homeland to best advantage - introducing new readers to its diverse culture and untamed natural beauty.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)mous letter which alleged inappropriate behavior ... Meanwhile Iris was carrying on an affair with the male partner of a couple who was in their circle of friends. Through different means, Bernard learned of the affair ... and so did Keith their son. To Keith's consternation, Bernard did not show any emotion and let the situation continue ...<br /><br />Keith was testing his limits as a rebellious teenager. He grew up into young adulthood without any strong interests in life or a clear path or goal. He tried college, he worked at many jobs and ended up as a drifter and finally a surfer on the beach. The family had not heard from him for quite a while and Bernard and Iris accused each other of failing to raise him properly ... A phone call aroused both Bernard and Iris from bed. It made them finally realize what is most important to a family. Thea Astely possesses a very unique writing gift, the ability to weave complex emotions and deeply moving life experiences of many different characters into a seamless whole. As an author from Australia she uses her special knowledge and experience of her homeland to best advantage - introducing new readers to its diverse culture and untamed natural beauty.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-09-03
US	48282789	RP0CMJVEXYCO2	9993841803	419603921	Reaching Tin River	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Awakening, Self Discovery - Humorous Twists & Turns	Told from the point of view of the main character, Belle, this book is filled with poignant memories of her life while growing up. It is replete with moments of self-discovery - until the very end when Belle at last feels she has arrived. Her self-awakening is mainly due to her obsession with a photo from the late 1870s, taken of a man named Gaden Lockyer, who was a banker, stateman and cattle rancher living in Jericho Flats, Australia, a town near Drenchings and Brisbane, Australia where Belle works. Belle becomes fascinated by his photo, and eventually is obsessed with learning more about his life. She even visits his old homestead, now owned by a foreign couple, Spanish or Italian, who keep the place in pristine antique condition. Belle imagines all sorts of things about his life at the turn-of-the century - somehow her connection with him on this fantasy level allows her to break away from a boring marriage and gives her the freedom to find herself. This odd mental relationship with a man from the past helps Belle connect more closely to her own personal history and life.<br /><br />Belle was born during sheep shearing season in southern Australia, her mom, Bonnie, became an eccentric drummer with her aunt, Marie, who plays the piano. Together with Wilma, a  saxaphone player, they form a female band which head-lined at local festivals, bars, and parties ... until couple dancing gave way to the rock and roll of the 1950s and '60s. Her father was a trumpet player, an American from San Diego, whom her mom met during World War II and left shortly after marrying him. The book unfolds with many vignettes of life as Belle grew up ... Her fascinating and eccentric life is a highly engaging reading experience. The reader is privileged to learn of life in the outback of Australia, a wild and exotic landscape.<br />This is a most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-09-01
US	48282789	R23GUU9UGLOV5O	0399139664	353139179	Coda	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Kaleidoscopic View of Aging	The title \\"Coda\\", the elderly man racing in a wheelchair on the cover, and the newspaper articles preceding each section of the tryptich describing grannie and grandpa dumping, i.e. leaving confused elderly in public places, hoping someone will find them and care for them is how the book grabbed this reader's attention and it did not let up until the very end. Even then, the reader is dazed from the depth, complexity, and family relationships covered within 188 pages of the book. The subject is highly relevant. It is written with sensitivity, creativity, frequent humor, deep seriousness and wit.<br /><br />Thea Astley describes the ordinairy life of the charming elderly lady Kathleen Hackendorf from the first person viewpoint. She is an Australian lady who raised two children, a son and daughter, who are successful in their respective fields and who married and had children of their own. Kathleen has an elderly good friend Daisy with whom she shares intimacies and has get-togethers for coffee and cake but who dies suddenly and unexpectedly. Kathleen is gradually becoming senile ... and forgetful. Her children have tried letting her live with them alternately but this option is fraught with problems. They are forced to make serious decisions on her behalf for her well being. Modern life is revealed in twisted complexity. This novel has wonderful imagery, ironic humor, and biting reality. It is highly worth reading and pondering.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-08-27
US	48282789	R2OW7M78ELRY7	963214869X	204203867	Ten Years in Transylvania: Traditions of Hungarian Folk Culture /Tiz esztendo Erdelyben	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hidden Treasure: Colorful Culture, History, People	The photographer captured unique images revealing the folk culture and lifestyle of the Hungarian people in many regions of Transylvania: Szek, Mezoseg, Kalotaszeg, Mera, Kolozsvar and Gyimes and many smaller villages such as, Korosfo, Magyarvalko, and Valaszut. This book is a *must* have for anyone who loves folk culture, traditional folk arts, and is captivated by the natural beauty of the Carpathian Mountains. The photos reveal so much about a way of life that is slowly giving away to modernization. Yet, in Oct. 2001, when I met a Transylvanian lady selling embroidery at a Wine Festival in Mor Hungary, she adamantly declared, \\"I will never give up wearing my traditional clothes for modern outfits\\". She was seconded by another lady wearing a regional outfit who was selling her goods in the next booth. Complex patterns and multi-colored embroidery on folk costumes of young women and girls and men's and boy's vests are just one example of the hidden treasures contained in this wonderful book. The photographer captured the faces of people of many ages engaging in the activities of life. He caught splendid images of a lifestyle and culture that is worth preserving and remembering.<br /><br />The natural beauty of the Carpathian Mountains with its dense forest hides villages and peasant homes that have intricately carved wooden trim decorating the eaves and elaborately decorated carved wooden gates. Onion domed churches and small chapels built of wood with carved entrances and shingled roofs are photographed for our enjoyment. The natural rhythms of life are captured in splendid magnificence.<br /><br />The author had been a traditional folk dancer for many years and had performed with a traditional folk dance group which piqued his interest in the Hungarian culture. He became in his words \\"enthralled\\" by the music and dance of Hungary and Transylvania. His brief autobiography in this book reads like a fictional novel as his involvement with folk dance and traditional folk music grew into meeting some of the big name musicians and folk artists who help keep this culture alive. It culminated in his moving to Hungary in 1995 and participating in its modern history. Most highly recommended book.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)folk music grew into meeting some of the big name musicians and folk artists who help keep this culture alive. It culminated in his moving to Hungary in 1995 and participating in its modern history. Most highly recommended book.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-08-17
US	48282789	RWHXXLQU50KEB	0812966007	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Historical Masterpiece	Edmund Morris captures the times and the person with marvelous descriptions of contemporary events, people, places and the newsmaking headlines of the era. What struck me most about the book is how personable Theodore Roosevelt seemed to be ... although born to wealth, he seemed in touch with the common people, too. He had a sense of how unique the United States was on a global scale in terms of world events and politics. He had a rare genius for balancing the interests of the rich and the ordinairy hard-working man ... This skill and gut instinct knowledge no doubt earned him re-election to the Presidency for a second term. It is something *ALL* elected officials today could stand to develop and apply in modern times.<br /><br />Many controversial concerns of the era captured my attention: some outstanding ones were how the U.S. presence in the Phillipine Islands made headlines as news of misconduct by U.S. soldiers toward Phillipine guerilla fighters was published in the newspapers. Another headline making event was when Theodore Roosevelt invited Dr. Booker T. Washington (a black man) to dinner at the White House, without consulting anyone or thinking about how this might play out politically (he needed Southern votes for certain issues). Despite being a highly educated man, Theodore Roosevelt had a unique personality that made him jump in feet first and consult later of what the consequences of his actions were. This open and honest personality trait no doubt earned him the respect of the majority of the public.<br /><br />Some of the most difficult issues of his day involved creating a satisfactory treaty with Columbia regarding the Panama Canal, at the time Panama belonged to Columbia. Nicaragua was the second choice for the canal which would link the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and ease up shipment of goods throughout the world ... The revolution in Panama to break from Columbia placed the U.S. in a very delicate position on the world scene ... Roosevelt, his Ambassador to Columbia, and the U.S. Navy circumvented the problems to meet U.S. and global trade interests. The times were indeed very unique but on many levels not too different from today ...<br /><br />Two other areas thoroughly covered by Morris are the Anti-trust laws which were passed after much heated debate and political clashes. The law prevented the wealthiest men from creating monopolies within certain industries ... mainly the railroads and fuel/oil. Another well rendered account in the book was the coal miner strike in Pennsylvania which could have had very grave consequences for the nation. It mostly affected the northern states, since coal was the sole source of fuel and heat during the winter months.<br /><br />Overall, this was a highly fascinating book which covered a great deal of important U.S. history as it was lived and created by one of the most flamboyant and energetic U.S. presidents: Theodore Roosevelt. Morris interspersed interesting side-lights about his second wife Edith, eldest daughter Alice, and sons, Quentin and Teddy. Some of Roosevelt's hunting expeditions and visits out West were described. One of the most important ideas espoused by Roosevelt was conservation, to set aside specific  public land for future generations to enjoy. We can thank Theodore Roosevelt for preserving the Grand Canyon as a national park. He is the first President who can be properly labelled an \\"environmentalist\\" (despite enjoying hunting wild animals).  Lastly, Morris does a superb job of describing Roosevelt's relations with some of his selected Cabinet, Elihu Root, Secretary of War, for example, and other political contemporaries, for instance, William Howard Taft, who succeeded him as President. Considering the vast and complex subject matter, this book is an outstanding reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)Ambassador to Columbia, and the U.S. Navy circumvented the problems to meet U.S. and global trade interests. The times were indeed very unique but on many levels not too different from today ...<br /><br />Two other areas thoroughly covered by Morris are the Anti-trust laws which were passed after much heated debate and political clashes. The law prevented the wealthiest men from creating monopolies within certain industries ... mainly the railroads and fuel/oil. Another well rendered account in the book was the coal miner strike in Pennsylvania which could have had very grave consequences for the nation. It mostly affected the northern states, since coal was the sole source of fuel and heat during the winter months.<br /><br />Overall, this was a highly fascinating book which covered a great deal of important U.S. history as it was lived and created by one of the most flamboyant and energetic U.S. presidents: Theodore Roosevelt. Morris interspersed interesting side-lights about his second wife Edith, eldest daughter Alice, and sons, Quentin and Teddy. Some of Roosevelt's hunting expeditions and visits out West were described. One of the most important ideas espoused by Roosevelt was conservation, to set aside specific  public land for future generations to enjoy. We can thank Theodore Roosevelt for preserving the Grand Canyon as a national park. He is the first President who can be properly labelled an \\"environmentalist\\" (despite enjoying hunting wild animals).  Lastly, Morris does a superb job of describing Roosevelt's relations with some of his selected Cabinet, Elihu Root, Secretary of War, for example, and other political contemporaries, for instance, William Howard Taft, who succeeded him as President. Considering the vast and complex subject matter, this book is an outstanding reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-08-08
US	48282789	R5IIZOFPI74QV	0060514965	121138293	Killer Smile (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Hints from Beyond the Grave Lead to Justice ...	Here is another fascinating book by Lisa Scottoline which kept me glued to every word from beginning to end. Mary DiNunzio, a lawyer with Rosatto & Associates law firm represents the interests of a client, Amadeo Brandolini, who had died in 1942. The more she investigates his past, the more she learns about a little known historical/political event when Italian immigrants were interred in a camp during World War II to protect the US from potential harm. Mary becomes obsessessed with learning the truth of how he died and about a piece of paper she discovered in his wallet which she surmised was very valuable. It had circles and something else on it. Everyone to whom she showed it believed it was merely doodles but... her hunch was it had to be very important or else why was it folded carefully in his wallet? The more she dug, the more she wanted to learn the truth. The facts were he was Italian and Catholic and unlikely to commit suicide, this knowledge gnawed at her.<br /><br />Mary's need to know led her to the internment camp in Montana, where she searched for people to interview who might have known Amadeo Brandolini. She went to the cemetery where he was buried and went to the site where he allegedly committed suicide. Several clues of what she learned there haunted her ... It is totally amazing how Lisa Scottoline ties together the clues and discoveries as Mary DiNunzio is provided hints and gradually puts the pieces of the puzzle together. The reader is fascinated with the life of Amadeo Brandolino, a simple fisherman from Italy who came to the US to build a better life for himself and his wife Theresa. After Mary returns, she believes she is being followed by a black car ... the lawyer who hired her to investigate Brandolini's estate had removed her from the case before her trip (although she persisted investigating on her own) and is found dead in his office. She learns Amadeo's best friend in the camp ... is still alive and a very wealthy elderly Italian man, who also was from Philadelphia and lives in a rich suburban home. Under false pretext she visits him and exchanges a few words ... only to be struck in the face and spit on by his son. The ingenius methods by which Mary DiNunzio achieves her goals are worth discovering. With amazing twists and turns in the plot, the reader is taken for a wonderful reading experience. This reader is totally captivated by the dazzling writing style and talents of Lisa Scottoline.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)n, who also was from Philadelphia and lives in a rich suburban home. Under false pretext she visits him and exchanges a few words ... only to be struck in the face and spit on by his son. The ingenius methods by which Mary DiNunzio achieves her goals are worth discovering. With amazing twists and turns in the plot, the reader is taken for a wonderful reading experience. This reader is totally captivated by the dazzling writing style and talents of Lisa Scottoline.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-08-04
US	48282789	R1KH62E4GO5R7O	0425188809	50861192	Watchers	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Science Experiment Gone Awol, Romance & Adventure	Dean Koontz has made me into a midnight novel reading addict! \\"The Watchers\\" is a heart-warming, suspense-filled, science-based adventure story and romantic novel. It has enormous appeal due to the many intriguing, imaginative and spell-binding elements drawn from diverse sources. The story literally jumps off each page. One could argue who is the real hero in this book, Travis Cornell and his partner/wife, Nora Devon or Einstein, the genetically altered Golden Retriever, dog genius ...<br /><br />The enticing story and creative plot draw ideas from many sources: science, in the form of genetic experimentation with the best and worst outcomes, a hired assassin who has ghoulish creepy psychotic tendencies that make one's skin crawl, two National Security Agents, Lemuel Johnson and Walter Gaines who chase down the hero and heroine in the story and in the end demonstrate an unexpected compassionate and human side to their natures. And most importantly, Travis Cornell, the strong handsome former undercover operations soldier who goes hunting in the Santiago Canyon of Orange County California and unexpectedly discovers a golden retriever that he adopts or who adopts him ... which changes his life forever. The beauty of this story is how it blends science, horror, romance and heart warming elements in an intriguing and surprising whole.<br /><br />As Einstein gradually reveals his unique traits to Travis, the heart of every animal lover will melt. Numerous times while reading this book, this reader's eyes teared up in empathy during critical moments when the outcomes were uncertain ... Along with this wonderful dog, the reader becomes fond of Travis who comes to the rescue of Nora Devon, a beautiful recluse in her late 30s. She inherited an old style mansion and had a plain and simple upbringing by a strict and eccentric Aunt. These three characters are a dynamic trio possessing chemistry which makes the story explode with energy ... the reader is thrilled at their abilities to evade capture and cringes each time The Outsider comes closer ... The challenges thrown in their path are major as they seek to save Einstein from capture or death. The hero, heroine and dog manage to outsmart government agents, an assassin, and a genetically altered monster. The climax and ending are completely satisfying. The entire book is nonstop adventure filled with frequent unexpected cliff hangers that are jaw-dropping but which keep the adrenaline pumping ... wanting to read more.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)ies to evade capture and cringes each time The Outsider comes closer ... The challenges thrown in their path are major as they seek to save Einstein from capture or death. The hero, heroine and dog manage to outsmart government agents, an assassin, and a genetically altered monster. The climax and ending are completely satisfying. The entire book is nonstop adventure filled with frequent unexpected cliff hangers that are jaw-dropping but which keep the adrenaline pumping ... wanting to read more.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-07-16
US	48282789	R1VY48UEP5BH7Z	0553584502	303170656	The Taking	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Unexplained Supernatural Forces - End Times?	With a powerful beginnning, Dean Koontz draws the reader to ponder the glistening rain which has an unnatural luminescence and a musky odor. It drove coyotes out of their California mountain homes to find shelter on the porch of Molly Sloan and her sleeping husband, Neil. Meteorologists reported funnels and<br />waterspouts of unnaturally huge proportions forming in the Pacific Ocean. Torrential rainfall covered Europe, Asia, Africa,the Middle East and even the deserts of Saudi Arabia.<br /><br />Molly and Neil left their mountain home to seek shelter in the town located on more secure ground. They stopped to check on a neighbor Harry who had become a recluse after the unexpected death of his wife in an auto accident. They found him in a state of indescribable horror. Piecing together the picture, Molly and Neil decided Harry could not face the great Unknown which challenged humanity. Natural or unnatural forces were being unleashed on the world -- seemingly with nowhere to turn for help. They began speculating what phenomenon could have caused so much fear, death, destruction and catastrophic changes in the world ... only one answer seemed possible: ETs. A taunting quote of T.S. Eliot was heard ... coming from the corpse of Harry Corrigan. They abandoned the house and fled for safety in their Explorer SUV and turned the radio on for the latest news updates.<br /><br />Between the static they picked up announcers saying good-byes to their families and others reporting the unusual changes in weather, snow was falling in places which smelled like vanilla. A space station with astronauts aboard was reporting peculiar phenomenon, an unknown craft was docking on their station, but they could not detect it on radar ... A German, Russian, and American described what was happening each in their own language until, an unearthly deep, strong voice spoke in an alien language and then all communications went dead ...<br /><br />The book is riveting, gripping the full attention of the reader by the sheer use of words and descriptions. The unusual twists and turns of the plot are unpredicable and cinematic in proportion and detail. Humanity huddles together, first in a tavern and then later ... a church. Children and dogs take on special significance . Molly somehow feels chosen to help gather the remaining living humans. She receives the aide of a dog with whom she has superior communication. The ending is as suspense filled and unfathomable as the beginning. This novel is jam packed with haunting, eery labyrinthine paths of complex proportions. It combines themes encompassing religion, philosophy and an an end of the world scenario with science fiction where good triumphs over evil. Humanity survives but will it learn from the past? No one knows for sure ...<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)of the reader by the sheer use of words and descriptions. The unusual twists and turns of the plot are unpredicable and cinematic in proportion and detail. Humanity huddles together, first in a tavern and then later ... a church. Children and dogs take on special significance . Molly somehow feels chosen to help gather the remaining living humans. She receives the aide of a dog with whom she has superior communication. The ending is as suspense filled and unfathomable as the beginning. This novel is jam packed with haunting, eery labyrinthine paths of complex proportions. It combines themes encompassing religion, philosophy and an an end of the world scenario with science fiction where good triumphs over evil. Humanity survives but will it learn from the past? No one knows for sure ...<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-07-13
US	48282789	R3NEB52WVY6IX4	0060291702	307559817	Days of Magic, Nights of War (Abarat)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magical Transformations within the Abarat ... Flow to Chickentown	Reading about the journey of Candy Quackenbush within the Abarat is a far more enjoyable experience in book two. The author expands his imagination as he introduces more unusual intelligent mythical creatures. It is a pleasure discovering the eccentricities of each new creature as Candy encounters the cultural differences within this archipelago. The reader is now familiar with the territory and eagerly turns the pages anticipating each new thrill, knowing at any point ... with a twist and turn of events ... there maybe an ambush by Christopher Carrion, Lord of Midnight or one of his subordinates. By now the reader knows he has an obsession with meeting Candy to discover the source of her magic. He is convinced she possesses special powers for having survived the many obstacles placed in her path and having vanquished highly formidable foes sent by him to capture her. The fact she has managed to evade him is an endless source of irritation which goads him further on his mission. One unexpected source of pleasure is reading how his grandmother Mother Motley has insight into his devious plans and even sees within his heart what his true desires are. She sews day and night helping to create an army of fiends to aide him during the anticipated battle to win control of the Abarat. More surprises await the reader as Christopher Carrion and his grandmother clash on personal levels when she hurls insults and hateful epitaphs at him. While one is rooting for Candy to overcome their evil intentions ... the reader can not but laugh at some of the clashes between these two villains. There is truth to the old adage 'divide and conquer'...<br /><br />The friendly and unique creatures from book one, such as John Mischief, the other Johns and Malingo, become old pals as the reader is taken down meandering pathways exploring the islands and experiencing new adventures. New challenges await Candy and one of the most gratifying discoveries within the book is when Candy *finally* meets the dragon slayer ... Finnegan Hob who had been engaged to Princess Boa, who was killed by a dragon. This reader is very pleased the author did not cop out and create a romantic interlude betweeen these characters. Romance would diminish the natural appeal of the books which is reading about imaginary creatures, magical mythical islands where the heroine experiences excitement and adventure.<br /><br />The author does a superb job of weaving together a common thread which ties the Abarat and Chickentown. It is heart warming to read how Candy, at last, communicates with her mom, dad and brothers. The mysterious connection between the three wise ladies from the Abarat who sailed on the Sea of Izabella and Candy Quackenbush of Chickentown Minnesota is revealed. The reader learns how and why Candy Quackenbush came to possess unique powers of magic ... This story is complete in all of its myriad of details and magic. It fully deserves 5 stars. Thanks to Allison for lending me book two. Erika Borsos (erikab93)the dragon slayer ... Finnegan Hob who had been engaged to Princess Boa, who was killed by a dragon. This reader is very pleased the author did not cop out and create a romantic interlude betweeen these characters. Romance would diminish the natural appeal of the books which is reading about imaginary creatures, magical mythical islands where the heroine experiences excitement and adventure.<br /><br />The author does a superb job of weaving together a common thread which ties the Abarat and Chickentown. It is heart warming to read how Candy, at last, communicates with her mom, dad and brothers. The mysterious connection between the three wise ladies from the Abarat who sailed on the Sea of Izabella and Candy Quackenbush of Chickentown Minnesota is revealed. The reader learns how and why Candy Quackenbush came to possess unique powers of magic ... This story is complete in all of its myriad of details and magic. It fully deserves 5 stars. Thanks to Allison for lending me book two. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-07-07
US	48282789	R11A1SV4AGD9DF	0064407330	703135449	Abarat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Will Magic & Sorcery Overcome Evil in the Abarat?	Similar to the Harry Potter books and a bit like Tolkien's Hobbit series ... magic and sorcery exist on the islands of Abarat located on the sea of Izabella. The imagination and creativity of the author hooks the interest of the reader right from the start. The book appeals to anyone who is attracted by the many colorful drawings of unique characters and places illustrated on the cover. One is either magnetized by the illustrations ... or turned off by them. Any reader who is a child at heart, open to mythical concepts, imaginary characters who possess supernatural powers for good or evil, will enjoy this highly creative story. The magnificent artwork contained throughout the book will surely please the reader who is enticed by this fantasy escape book.<br /><br />The first chapter introduces the reader to the nebulous undefined \\"mission\\" of three \\"wise women\\" named Diamanda, Joephi, and Mespa who set sail on a boat named the Lyre, heading to the 25th hour Island to encounter unknown forces which may try to thwart their plans. Their mission is of the gravest importance but it is deliberately camouflaged. This serves to whet the reader's appetite to discover the wonders that are to unfold within the book.<br /><br />Candy Quackenbush, a young girl, 12 - 14 years of age, visits the Abarat, mystical islands via a most extraordinairy event. It is connected to a report she wrote for a class project. The assignment was to find ten interesting facts about Chickentown, Minnesota, where she resides. Candy was stuck on a subject so she asked her mom for advice. Her mom recommended she interview the local motel assistant manager who knew about mysterious events from the past. Candy was shown room # 19 in the motel where a man named Henry Murkitt had committed suicide long ago. It turns out, Chickentown used to be called Murkitt long ago, after his grandfather. Later it was changed to Chickentown because raising chickens became the main industry. Oddly, there remained in the room one possesion of the gentleman's, a sextant. A sextant helps navigate ships by aligning it with the North Star and then directing the ship properly based on this coordinate. Unfortuanately, Miss Schwartz, her teacher found Candy's report unacceptable and gave her an F. Furthermore, she mocked and humiliated Candy in front of her classmates. Candy was sent to the principal's office for insubordination but defied her instructor by walking out of school instead. Also, she had drawn doodles in a notebook resembling waves of an ocean, that had caught her teacher's attention. Candy walked out into the field of tall grass and kept walking until she no longer saw her home or the town. She stumbled upon something which turned out to be a seashell, although the nearest ocean was thousands of miles away. She also came upon a tall wooden structure that looked exactly like a lighthouse. She entered and climbed the creaky wooden stairs. Candy was surprised to meet a man named John Mischief who appeared to be wearing a mask but it turned out to be he had antlers with seven separate heads attached ... each was named John but with a different last name and different personality. Candy learned of a harbor nearby which to her thinking was preposterous as she is in Minnesota on dry land. When John noticed another entity approaching he warned Candy it had evil intentions. Shape was the enemy against whom the Johns fought with the help of Candy. John Mischief, the main John, later taught Candy how to play a game with a metal ball which she managed to toss into the bowl ... after she did, the atmosphere changed considerably, with a an ocean breeze and the smell of the sea becoming very apparent. Candy stepped outside and found herself at a harbor ... in order to escape from Shape she climbed into a red boat and sailed away with John Mischief and his other John companions on the Sea of Izabella. They were headed to the islands of Abarat. The rest of the story consists of descriptions ofmagical events both good and evil, people, and unique creatures whom she encounters in this mystical location. Clues are dropped by the author in the chapters that it is no accident someone from the Hereafter (what Minnesota,i.e. the real world is called) arrived at the Abarat just now. There are hints that something spectacular will occur in the future, some major cataclysm predicted in almanac books. Candy ends up on the 25th hour Island and encounters the \\"wise women\\" who help her leave this unusual place but who imply she has a special role to play in the future. She is again in a red boat sailing on the Sea of Izabella. Unfortunately, the ending is a disappointment as one is left hanging, asking the question, what next? For this reason I dropped the rating by one star. Each book should end sufficiently to leave the reader fulfilled, this book does not ... Overall, the book receives high accolades because it has subject matter that appeals to a very selective but wide audience, young people or adults who are \\"young at heart\\". Thanks to Katie for lending me this special book.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)magical events both good and evil, people, and unique creatures whom she encounters in this mystical location. Clues are dropped by the author in the chapters that it is no accident someone from the Hereafter (what Minnesota,i.e. the real world is called) arrived at the Abarat just now. There are hints that something spectacular will occur in the future, some major cataclysm predicted in almanac books. Candy ends up on the 25th hour Island and encounters the \\"wise women\\" who help her leave this unusual place but who imply she has a special role to play in the future. She is again in a red boat sailing on the Sea of Izabella. Unfortunately, the ending is a disappointment as one is left hanging, asking the question, what next? For this reason I dropped the rating by one star. Each book should end sufficiently to leave the reader fulfilled, this book does not ... Overall, the book receives high accolades because it has subject matter that appeals to a very selective but wide audience, young people or adults who are \\"young at heart\\". Thanks to Katie for lending me this special book.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-06-27
US	48282789	R2UUBFR93W75XD	0812967798	44167654	Lucia, Lucia: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Nostalgia for the '50s Lifestyle in Greenwich Village	Adriana Trigiani has a way of drawing the reader into identifying with an era or place and sensing the emotions, conflicts, and decisions with which the main character struggles. Her writing strengths lie in understanding people and relationships and their vulnerability to change ... which forces them to grow and develop in unexpected ways. Her novels are nostalgic and realistic down to describing a \\"chenille bedspread, white with shaggy violets on a scalloped trim ... furniture that is precious and frilly, a pale blue velvet love seat with two chintz slipper chairs with a pattern of irises.\\" and a coffee table holding a \\"collection of silver mint-julep cups filled with tiny silk flowers\\". Her attention to detail includes conversations within the proper vernacular and nuance of pronunciation. She includes detailed descriptions of location or setting, which has a strong appeal to the reader, in this case Greenwich Village New York in the 1950s. She uses her own Italian background as a foundation upon which she builds believable people and describes life situations which include conflicts or changing family values that need resolution, closure. While there are typical scenes and activities the reader can anticipate, the reader is also provided unexpected twists and curves in the plot which make the story line more interesting, adventurous, creative, and unpredicatable - the recipe for a successful novel. This is the third book I have read by this author. Each one has been thoroughly delightful. Each time I finish one of Adriana Trigiani's books, I have a strong desire to find another to read.<br /><br />Kit Zanetti is a successful playwright in her mid-20s who lives in a brownstone apartment building in Greenwich village where the pipes often leak and need repair. She befriends \\"Aunt Lu\\" a chic lady in her mid-70s who lives in the moment but has maintained her own style and fashion from another era. Contrary to the unwritten rule of apartment living, to remain distant from your neighbor, Kit accepts an invitation to tea in Aunt Lu's apartment at the top level. Aunt Lu is cleaning her apartment of excessive clutter and invites Kit to select any items which might interest her. Kit discovers Aunt Lu has extraordinairily beautiful photos of herself in highly fashionable outfits from the past when she was about Kit's age. Kit's curiousity is aroused by one of Aunt Lu's favorite signature clothing items, her black mink coat ... which she occasionally wears out of season but fits her personality perfectly. Aunt Lu is just as charmed by Kit's curiosity as Kit is smitten with the classic beauty and good tastes of this elderly lady. Thus begins the story of Lucia Sartori's very fascinating life as she enters adulthood and embarks on her career as a seamstress for a fashionable store in New York.<br /><br />We learn Lucia is the only daughter of an Italian couple, immigrants from a small village  who become successful grocery store owners in Greenwich Village. There are four sons who carry on the family business and Lucia, the one daughter who follows the traditional role within the family at home. However she also aspires to be independent and make a successsful career, along with future plans of marriage and possibly raising a family. She is engaged to Dante, a handsome young Italian from a good family, whom she loves but has doubts about whether she could fulfill the role of good daughter-in-law set by Italian tradition. She is introduced to an apparently rich handsome American, John Talbot,who sweeps her off her feet by his display of upper class manners, understated elegance, and wealth from undetermined sources. She is exposed to a lifestyle to which she aspires. Her father has reservations about his background but Lucia overcomes his fears (as only a daughter can) with her overwhelming desire to start a new life as they become engaged and prepare for marriage. Sadly, Lucia is left waiting at the altar ... all the guests are sent home as her betrothed leaves her jilted. Soon afterwards, she receives an offer to go to Hollywood with Delmar, one of the most creative clothing designers at the department store. His talent is recognized by the McGuire Sisters for whom he designed a one-of-a-kind gown. Lucia learns to accept her life and role within the close-knit Italian family, remaining in the neighborhood where she grew up as she persued her job as seamstress, later to become a department store manager. The book is worth reading to determine how the author reveals the complex circumstances which detered John Talbot from keeping his promise to marry Lucia. It is a wonderful and satisying reading experience to learn how the author unravels this mystery and achieves closure to this most important chapter in Lucia's life. This book may be a disappointment to those who would have preferred Lucia embark on a life independent of her family which is unrealistic given her Italian heritage. The author concludes the story with what most daughters of good Italian families would do. They would live with the family just as Lucia did. This author did an excellent job of resolving the main issues and conflicts in the life of her main character, Lucia Sartori. It is an excellent story told by a highly talented author.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)e as her betrothed leaves her jilted. Soon afterwards, she receives an offer to go to Hollywood with Delmar, one of the most creative clothing designers at the department store. His talent is recognized by the McGuire Sisters for whom he designed a one-of-a-kind gown. Lucia learns to accept her life and role within the close-knit Italian family, remaining in the neighborhood where she grew up as she persued her job as seamstress, later to become a department store manager. The book is worth reading to determine how the author reveals the complex circumstances which detered John Talbot from keeping his promise to marry Lucia. It is a wonderful and satisying reading experience to learn how the author unravels this mystery and achieves closure to this most important chapter in Lucia's life. This book may be a disappointment to those who would have preferred Lucia embark on a life independent of her family which is unrealistic given her Italian heritage. The author concludes the story with what most daughters of good Italian families would do. They would live with the family just as Lucia did. This author did an excellent job of resolving the main issues and conflicts in the life of her main character, Lucia Sartori. It is an excellent story told by a highly talented author.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-06-23
US	48282789	R1NMNNYHR9LVII	0061030597	752429507	Moment of Truth (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Truth is in the Eye of the Beholder: Whose Truth Wins?	This seat of your edge murder mystery grabs the reader's interest from the very first sentence ... \\"Jack Newlin had no choice but to frame himself for murder.\\" The reader is jump started, like a heart in ventricular fribrillation, feeling super charged, wondering why he is willing to accept the charge and the question begs to be answered, whom is he protecting? As he is hand-cuffed and taken for interrogation, his only thoughts are, can he pull this off, worried that his lies may unravel. Suspicions about his \\"confession\\" mount as he voluntarily makes a statement without the presence of a lawyer ... which is highly unusual ... since Jack Newlin himself *is* a lawyer, but one whose specialty is contracts and estates. Lisa Scottoline creates believable characters and dialogue in this novel. The  personalities jump off the page and nearly come to life. Detective Stan Kovich and Detective Brinkley have been partners in the Philadelphia Police force for many years; they feed off each other during the investigation and their synergy sizzles during key phases and important turning points throughout the book.<br /><br />Jack Newlin calls a well established (but not the most distinguished) law firm to represent him. He hires a nearly newly minted lawyer, Mary DiNunzio, who jumps at the chance of representing this high profile case. He consoles himself that, as she is inexperienced, she is less likely to discover his lies. However, not long after interviewing him, Mary leaves with the gut feeling something does not sit right with what he said and how he responded. She is certain he is covering up for someone. Eventually Mary learns Jack Newlin's daughter, Paige Newlin is a model, 16 years old, who is \\"emancipated\\", living on her own. She discovers the victim, Honor Newlin, managed the daughter's modeling career and was emotionally abusive. This finding creates a rift between the lawyer and her client ... The Detectives examine the crime scene and one of them finds the back of a pierced earring ... which was *not* picked up by the crime scene investigators. This one clue gnaws at Detective Brinkley whose instincts are seldom wrong. He realizes everything presented so far was too clean-cut. He begins a solitary journey to examine tangential and peripheral possibilities which are being ignored by headquarters, especially Captain Walsh. There is overwhelming compelling evidence which points to Jack Newlin: he had called \\"9-1-1\\", made a statement of his guilt, his fingerprints are on the weapon. Since the the District Attorney for this case is Dwight Davis who most often wins for the state, the Captain does not want a media circus to unravel the well knit evidence which all implicates the accused.<br /><br />This book is a gem worth discovering! Clues are provided throughout the book which point to the \\"real truth\\". There are hair-pin twists and turns helping the the reader to conclude \\"not everything is what it seems.\\" Lisa Scottoline possesses a realistic writing style balanced with a good sense of humor. Conversations and descriptions of neighborhoods and the different classes of people are presented so realistically the mind's eye can picture it all perfectly. This book is a *must* *read* for every murder mystery fan.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)a pierced earring ... which was *not* picked up by the crime scene investigators. This one clue gnaws at Detective Brinkley whose instincts are seldom wrong. He realizes everything presented so far was too clean-cut. He begins a solitary journey to examine tangential and peripheral possibilities which are being ignored by headquarters, especially Captain Walsh. There is overwhelming compelling evidence which points to Jack Newlin: he had called \\"9-1-1\\", made a statement of his guilt, his fingerprints are on the weapon. Since the the District Attorney for this case is Dwight Davis who most often wins for the state, the Captain does not want a media circus to unravel the well knit evidence which all implicates the accused.<br /><br />This book is a gem worth discovering! Clues are provided throughout the book which point to the \\"real truth\\". There are hair-pin twists and turns helping the the reader to conclude \\"not everything is what it seems.\\" Lisa Scottoline possesses a realistic writing style balanced with a good sense of humor. Conversations and descriptions of neighborhoods and the different classes of people are presented so realistically the mind's eye can picture it all perfectly. This book is a *must* *read* for every murder mystery fan.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-06-22
US	48282789	R4A8H66UPJKJS	0345445848	287871634	Big Cherry Holler: A Novel (Big Stone Gap)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unexpressed Emotions: Love Concealed and Revealed	Adriana Trigiani continues the fascinating saga of love and life in Big Stone Gap, Virginia exploring the deep emotions which surface in unexpected ways within the lives of Ave Maria (Mulligan) and Jack Mac (MacChesney). They are now a married couple of 8 years with a daughter named Etta, and a son Joe who died at the age of four, shortly after being diagnosed with a fatal illness. The shadow of his loss accompanies both Ave Maria and Jack in ways neither of them imagined. This loss gradually erodes their ability to communicate in important ways. They resume an every day routine that is shattered by the permanent closing of the local mine where Jack and his family have worked for several generations.  Around this time Ave Maria receives an offer to become a 50% partner, manager, and pharmacist at the local drug store she used to own. She had signed it over to Pearl Grimes, now a 24 year old successful entrepeneur who is opening up a chain of stores. When Jack Mac hears of Ave Maria's acceptance of this job offer ... from sources other than his wife ... his pride is wounded. He misinterprets her acceptance as lack of faith in his ability to provide for his family.<br /><br />Ave Maria encourages Jack to explore new avenues and supports him in starting a construction company with local business partners. Although they settle this conflict amicably, in other ways they grow apart. The romance and physical love which was so alive during the initial years of marriage has now diminished and taken a backseat to current everyday reality. When Ave Maria sees Jack eyeing a young and beautiful blonde-haired woman, wearing tight blue jeans, she recognizes the desire which she used to kindle within him . She is sensing possible problems in her marriage but has difficulty expressing these feelings to her husband. He, too, recognizes their love is diffusing and suggests a family trip to Italy where Ave Maria's relatives reside. At the last minute, he backs out of this vacation, citing business committments. He gives his blessing to Ave Maria and daughter Etta, to enjoy this trip of a lifetime to the mountain village home of her Italian ancestors in northern Italy. Ave Maria and Etta are fully welcomed with all the genorsity and love that a close-knit Italian family can provide. Phone calls from Jack at home leave Ave Maria wondering about the one thing preying foremost on her mind her ability to save her marriage. Jack had essentially told her before she left for Europe, she needs to decide if being married to him is what she really wants in life.<br /><br />As often happens in exotic romantic settings, Ave Maria meets a tall handsome blue-eyed dark haired man at a local outdoor cafee ... he asks her to dance. It turns out he is an American from New Jersey (half Italian) visiting the region on business. He is embraced and received as a family friend by her Italian relatives. He is even accepted by her daughter, aunts, and father (who happens to be engaged to a young Italian shop owner, the same age as Ave Maria). However, deep beneath the surface of this friendship lies unexpressed sexual desires and churning emotions. At about this time, Ave Maria receives a phone call from Big Stone Gap, VA from her librarian friend Iva Lou. She strongly expresses concerns that Jack Mac is involved with the beautiful blonde who is a business associate of Jack's but who made no secret of the fact she desires to be more than associates. This reader had tears in her eyes numerous times while reading the book, especially when surprising details were revealed that explained the reasons for the deep inner turmoil of the main characters. The author possesses a subtle, clear, beautiful use of language. She creates a wonderfully complex and well crafted story about the lives of a highly engaging couple which makes for a deeply satisfying reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)ing business committments. He gives his blessing to Ave Maria and daughter Etta, to enjoy this trip of a lifetime to the mountain village home of her Italian ancestors in northern Italy. Ave Maria and Etta are fully welcomed with all the genorsity and love that a close-knit Italian family can provide. Phone calls from Jack at home leave Ave Maria wondering about the one thing preying foremost on her mind her ability to save her marriage. Jack had essentially told her before she left for Europe, she needs to decide if being married to him is what she really wants in life.<br /><br />As often happens in exotic romantic settings, Ave Maria meets a tall handsome blue-eyed dark haired man at a local outdoor cafee ... he asks her to dance. It turns out he is an American from New Jersey (half Italian) visiting the region on business. He is embraced and received as a family friend by her Italian relatives. He is even accepted by her daughter, aunts, and father (who happens to be engaged to a young Italian shop owner, the same age as Ave Maria). However, deep beneath the surface of this friendship lies unexpressed sexual desires and churning emotions. At about this time, Ave Maria receives a phone call from Big Stone Gap, VA from her librarian friend Iva Lou. She strongly expresses concerns that Jack Mac is involved with the beautiful blonde who is a business associate of Jack's but who made no secret of the fact she desires to be more than associates. This reader had tears in her eyes numerous times while reading the book, especially when surprising details were revealed that explained the reasons for the deep inner turmoil of the main characters. The author possesses a subtle, clear, beautiful use of language. She creates a wonderfully complex and well crafted story about the lives of a highly engaging couple which makes for a deeply satisfying reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-06-18
US	48282789	R18U10V9BFS7OJ	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Surprising Revelation: the Key to Self-Discovery and Love	This is a charming enjoyable \\"feel good\\" kind of story. It is filled with eccentric, believable endearing small town characters who captivate the reader with their personalities and special qualities. The story is told through the eyes of Ave Maria Mulligan, a citizen of Big Stone Gap, Virginia, nestled in the heart of the Blue Ridge Mountains.<br /><br />We learn she is still mourning the loss of her mom, who died a year ago of cancer. Ave Maria looks 100% Italian and therefore stands out among the town's population, in more ways than one. Most of the local residents are descendents of Irish and Scottish immigrants from long ago ... with fair coloring and often blonde or red hair. Besides having a darker complexion and thick curly black hair ... Ave Maria is a single female, aged 35 years, and almost considered a 'spinster' by the locals. Her marriage eligible status is occasionally fair game for discussion by the local gossips. She has a highly respected and responsible job, being the *only* pharmacist in town and owning the local drug store (which was left to her by her dad who had died several years before). On many levels, she feels she is an outsider, despite having been born in Big Stone Gap.<br /><br />The main thrust of the story is resolving a mystery which is revealed by the town lawyer, a transplant from New York and therefore a *real* outsider. He is now a resident of Big Stone Gap. He got a local young beauty pregnant and \\"did the right thing\\" (sometimes to his regret) by marrying her. Ave Maria learns in a letter given to him by her mother that she left Italy at the age of 17, while she was pregnant. She came to the USA to make a new life, to prevent shame from befalling her family name due to having a child without benefit of marriage. Her mom met Fred Mulligan, the local drug store owner and pharmacist when she answered an ad to become a seamstress. He fell in love with her as he drove her to Big Stone Gap to be interviewed for her job.<br /><br />This letter opens Ave Maria's search for her Italian family roots, especially her real father, and most importantly starts her on the long and winding road to self-discovery. She always felt a bit different and distant from Fred Mulligan who, now it turns out, was not her real dad. She discovers she needs to learn her true identity which is tied to reconciling with her real father. Only after that can Ave Maria express feelings of love for the one man she truly loves. The story is heart-warming, revealing, entertaining, amusing, humorous, and a total joy to read. The antics of the local residents, the summer play which is a yearly performance for tourists mainly, the dinner and welcome party held for Elizabeth Taylor and her politician husband, John Warner, the mining accident and rescue, and the many unexpected surprises are worth discovering for oneself by reading the book. The typical activities and life in this small town are described superbly by this highly talented author.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)his letter opens Ave Maria's search for her Italian family roots, especially her real father, and most importantly starts her on the long and winding road to self-discovery. She always felt a bit different and distant from Fred Mulligan who, now it turns out, was not her real dad. She discovers she needs to learn her true identity which is tied to reconciling with her real father. Only after that can Ave Maria express feelings of love for the one man she truly loves. The story is heart-warming, revealing, entertaining, amusing, humorous, and a total joy to read. The antics of the local residents, the summer play which is a yearly performance for tourists mainly, the dinner and welcome party held for Elizabeth Taylor and her politician husband, John Warner, the mining accident and rescue, and the many unexpected surprises are worth discovering for oneself by reading the book. The typical activities and life in this small town are described superbly by this highly talented author.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-06-03
US	48282789	R1WE09E9CHIHT	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Untangling Complex Web of Political Murders	This book is a non-stop, action-packed murder mystery filled with multiple layers of fascinating tangled political, business, and romantic intrigues. John Grisham is at his finest in creating a dynamic reading experience about highly attractive charasmatic people who stumble upon the truth ... during their hedonistic lifestyle in one of America's most colorful cities, New Orleans. Darby Shaw is a twenty-something law student at Tulane University in New Orleans when she learns of the murders of two Supreme Court Justices. One of the victims, Abraham Rosenberg, is the most admired and often quoted law scholar by Thomas Callahan, her constitutional law professor and ... also her lover. The speculation is that conservatives will be apppointed to replace the two Justices. The impact of these expected appointments on the future interpretation of the law will create thunderstorms in the Judicial system well into the future for at least 10 years ...<br /><br />Darby secluded herself for four days in a law library, digging through briefs, dissents, books, newspapers, essays, and law opinions ... trying to discover what the two murdered Justices had in common. By accident, she stumbles upon a subject of passionate interest to both: the environment. Her tenacity and persistence paid off, she wrote a paper on her discovery and speculated who had the most to gain by their elimination. She gave the paper to her law professor who shared the suppositions with lawyer friend from his law school days, who now works as an attorney for the F.B.I. The head of the F.B.I. discovered the suspect had donated money to the President's last re-election campaign, all of which was deemed legal. The accusations against the suspect were dismissed as mere speculation by the White House ... Yet, in some circles where the paper had circulated, the topic unleashed a wild tiger which hunted for its prey, in this case, Darby Shaw.<br /><br />One significant turning point in the book is when Thomas Callahan and Darby are out for dinner in the Big Easy. Thomas had too much to drink. Darby cautions him to let her drive, he denies his inebriated state. They have a big fight over this and she storms off, deciding to walk rather than ride with him. After Thomas turns the key in the ignition, a huge explosion occurs flipping the Porsche and knocking Darby face-down on the sidewalk. She arises from a daze ... nearly in shock. One must read the book to discover how she becomes a fugutive from a world famous assassin whom she manages to allude. After Thomas' death, she realizes *she* was the intended victim. This book is an un-put-downable, page-turning, suspense-filled murder mystery which is solved after Darby partners with a Washington Post reporter. Both of them help unravel the reasons for the two murders and help bring the perpetrator to justice. This is a superb novel.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)an and Darby are out for dinner in the Big Easy. Thomas had too much to drink. Darby cautions him to let her drive, he denies his inebriated state. They have a big fight over this and she storms off, deciding to walk rather than ride with him. After Thomas turns the key in the ignition, a huge explosion occurs flipping the Porsche and knocking Darby face-down on the sidewalk. She arises from a daze ... nearly in shock. One must read the book to discover how she becomes a fugutive from a world famous assassin whom she manages to allude. After Thomas' death, she realizes *she* was the intended victim. This book is an un-put-downable, page-turning, suspense-filled murder mystery which is solved after Darby partners with a Washington Post reporter. Both of them help unravel the reasons for the two murders and help bring the perpetrator to justice. This is a superb novel.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-05-26
US	48282789	R23R3LE66RA7SU	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Eagle and Bear Extinguish the Fire-Breathing Dragon	The first major event is the unsuccessful attempt on the life of Sergey Golovko Chairman of the SVR (formerly First Chief Directorate) which sets off warning bells throughout the free world, all the way up to the President of the USA, Jack Ryan. The second event of global magnitude is that President Jack Ryan has reestablished free trade with the Peoples Republic of China (PRC, i.e., Communist China). The third episode is a power play in which Chester (Chet) Nomuri is sent on assignment to the PRC on behalf of Nippon Electric Company (NEC) but his primary or real assignment is &#34;intelligence gathering&#34;, to collect as much information as possible via espionage ... all this occurs within the first 40 pages of the book. The writing is pure Tom Clancy ... there is the right mix of political intrigue, detailed technology including computers, military weapons and satellite capabilities, global issues, and even complicated romantic encounters ... all of which make for a suspense-filled captivating reading experience.<br /><br />The genius of Tom Clancy shines brighter than ever. There is no rival to this author to date. Clancy casts a hypnotic spell over the reader. The characters are genuine, the future thrills are guaranteed. The reader anticipates a complex puzzle of espionage, politics, global threats, military encounters ... by the world super powers or power-wannabes, all vying to control more of the world's limited resources.<br /><br />Chet Nomuri manages to seduce a top level secretary, Ming, who works for a minor Chinese Politburo member, Fang, who happens to keep a diary of political transactions on a computer. He is no fool! He has witnessed political rivals destroyed based on these types of conflicts. His goal is to survive, no matter which faction, moderate or conservative, is in control. Ming was given a a special computer program by her lover Chet Nomuri which she attaches to her computer. It has a hidden program that downloads encrypted messages of all transactions ... Fang's diary is transmitted straight to the CIA in Washington, DC.<br /><br />There is an unfortunate incident which occurs in a Chinese hospital that is captured by CNN television live ... it creates a serious negative impact on the Chinese economy. The economy was already teetering on the brink of collapse due to an imbalance of trade and lack of capital reserves. World opinion crashes down on Chinese businesses. The bureaucratic political red-tape is tied and knotted so tightly that the Chinese Politburo fails to react appropriately to the unexpected murder of the Ambassador from the Vatican and a Chinese Baptist Minister. The PRC is punished on a global scale as an undesirable trade partner. This creates near panic in the PRC &#34;Parliament&#34; until ... the solution is discovered: secretly invade Siberia where newly discovered oil fields and gold mines will solve the economic needs of the Chinese, freeing them forever from dependence on world trade.<br /><br />The scenario is set again for yet another daring, exciting and exhilarating World War III episode. How Clancy does it, I do not know, but he can make the players all seem real, the events hair-raising and awe-inspiring in their believabilty. Tensions build as battle scenes are fought. Read the book to discover the final resolution to this depiction of how the-world-as-we-know-it nearly ends ...<br />Erika Borsos (pepper flower)all transactions ... Fang's diary is transmitted straight to the CIA in Washington, DC.<br /><br />There is an unfortunate incident which occurs in a Chinese hospital that is captured by CNN television live ... it creates a serious negative impact on the Chinese economy. The economy was already teetering on the brink of collapse due to an imbalance of trade and lack of capital reserves. World opinion crashes down on Chinese businesses. The bureaucratic political red-tape is tied and knotted so tightly that the Chinese Politburo fails to react appropriately to the unexpected murder of the Ambassador from the Vatican and a Chinese Baptist Minister. The PRC is punished on a global scale as an undesirable trade partner. This creates near panic in the PRC &#34;Parliament&#34; until ... the solution is discovered: secretly invade Siberia where newly discovered oil fields and gold mines will solve the economic needs of the Chinese, freeing them forever from dependence on world trade.<br /><br />The scenario is set again for yet another daring, exciting and exhilarating World War III episode. How Clancy does it, I do not know, but he can make the players all seem real, the events hair-raising and awe-inspiring in their believabilty. Tensions build as battle scenes are fought. Read the book to discover the final resolution to this depiction of how the-world-as-we-know-it nearly ends ...<br />Erika Borsos (pepper flower)	2005-05-13
US	48282789	R2LU7YG7LUQ9QZ	0802117805	306173971	The Last Night of a Damned Soul: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Twisting Religous Convictions to Glorify Death/Martyrdom	This book is frightening in its ability to present how a rather normal individual of a Muslim background, born and educated in the USA, could become susceptible and vulnerable to the \\"culture of death\\" as taught by Islamic extremists. The book was originaly written in French and is a translation into English. It is a deep and complex book fraught with personal anguish and emotional tension ... Raouf is the only son of an Egyptian father and Lebanese mother, both highy educated and successful American immigrants of Muslim background. He examines the purpose of his life related to his religious awakening within the framework of the most painful experience of his life, the death of his father.<br /><br />The emotional turmoil of this young computer engineer is the prelude to his gradual transformation into an Islamic extremist. He does at times have reservations, questions, and conflicts which are examined and analyzed through the dark cloud of his personal tragedy ... when  life experiences, that is reality contradicts the teachings... his source of inspiration is a Muslim friend whose answer to most problems is to quote the Koran, a Hadith, or some portion of a sermon by a Mullah which consistently ties any conflict into a \\"submisson to G-d\\" response, most of which is associated with tolerating pain and realizing the Here and Now is unimportant and the Hereafter is what matters the most, when one attains the rewards of suffering in this life as promised for those who follow the teachings of Islam. The manipulation of this vulnerable man ... to accept a role to which he succombed is worth reading. It is a true education to see how religion is used for political ends by an extremist group.<br /><br />The most important literary device or feature of this book is the use of quotations from the Koran and Hadiths which can make it a difficult reading experience . However, the reader will more fully appreciate the complex nature of the subject matter and *how* this literary device is effective when finished reading the book. In the end, most readers will view the recitation of different verses and suras as a device to create a hypnotic effect on the vulnerable Raouf, it can be viewed as the call to awakening of the young man. In this case, it has the same effect as the call to prayer five times a day when facing Mecca. This book would definitely have a stronger appeal if it were made into a film. Most readers will need to be patient ... to understand the beauty of the writing which reveals the genuine talents of this author. This book is a monumental literary achievement toward understanding the complex and difficult world in which we live. Erika Borsos (erikab93)device is effective when finished reading the book. In the end, most readers will view the recitation of different verses and suras as a device to create a hypnotic effect on the vulnerable Raouf, it can be viewed as the call to awakening of the young man. In this case, it has the same effect as the call to prayer five times a day when facing Mecca. This book would definitely have a stronger appeal if it were made into a film. Most readers will need to be patient ... to understand the beauty of the writing which reveals the genuine talents of this author. This book is a monumental literary achievement toward understanding the complex and difficult world in which we live. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-05-11
US	48282789	R15HWDWH1U279G	0961891637	425442219	One-Handed Basket Weaving: Poems on the Theme of Work	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Superb Imagery, Timely Topics, Insightful Poetry	This poetry book is among my top favorites. The poetry of Rumi gleams and sparkles with meaning for modern times  ... amazing as it was written in the 1240s A.D.  The natural imagery used  is always surprising. He never fails to capture human emotions and the human condition, using original and sometimes highly provocative but very 'on-target' terms.<br /><br />The subject matter of each poem is varied, although the theme of the book is 'work' ... it really is about much, much more than work. I can not praise the themes of the poems and contents of this book enough. One outstanding poem uses \\"grapes\\" as imagery. Rumi describes for the reader, \\"How It Is with Grapes\\". When they are immature they jostle competetively in the bunch ... after maturing, the grapes soften, the skin rips open and become one juice. Rumi reassures us, it is just the same with humans. We are also told some grapes grow stone-hard but the secret to that sour tightness remains hidden. What is more important is ... that we grow ... with each breath ... through the help of the heart master.<br /><br />Another poetic masterpiece is \\"Die Before You Die\\". We are told about a riddle, that the opener and that which is opened are the same ... Rumi states, \\"The day and the daily bread that comes are not to be worshiped for themselves. ... That it is the ocean inside the fish that bears it along, not the riverwater. ... The time-river spreads and disappears into the ocean with the fish.\\" \\"Be one of G-d's fish who receives what it needs directly from the ocean around it - food, shelter, sleep, medicine.\\" In conclusion, \\"A seed breaks into the ground. Only then does a new fig tree come into being. *That's* *the* *meaning* *of* *die* *before* *you* *die*.\\" This is truly phenomenal poetry that has been tested over time. It is 800 years strong and still filled with enlightenment and human insight into the phenomenon called \\"Life\\".<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-04-24
US	48282789	R2KY6TC2C9GL5S	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Covert Operations in Friendly Country: Ultimate Suspense	The book begins like modern headlines and top stories in the news: a Coast Guard boat discovers several dead bodies on a drifting boat out at sea ... piecing together the scenes ... the Captain and his crew understand the grisly details which became all too clear. Before the discovery, they announce their intention to board the boat, only to find two Columbians who speak little and look guilty as sin. The Captain and crew have the presence of mind to record on film permanently what the encountered. They nearly gag at what they find. Contrary to usual procedure, they create a \\"justice at sea\\" bogus trial based on some ancient mariner's manual. It is just the right scenario to create fear in their prisoners which extracts a confession from them that the Coast Guard believes will stand up in court and get them prosecuted.<br /><br />In Washington, DC clandestine operations are executed for a secret American plan to use the most talented night warriors the US Army has ever produced to fight the drug cartel in Columbia, on their own turf. The select group all have Spanish roots and were salvaged from a life on the streets, where they would surely work against the system, to build a clean life in the Army ... the better alternative.<br /><br />This book shows how power politics, secret hand-shake decisions, and behind the scenes operations occur which could shake up the core values of a country. Clandestine activities work outside the boundaries of national and international law. If they were made  public, there would be a huge outcry from USA citizens and of the world judgement. It is at this time that Jack Ryan becomes Acting Director of the CIA. The CIA Director is in the hospital with a terminal illness ... The current president has not a clue of how the drug war is being fought and won. He is only aware of the results: drug cartel airplanes are being shot down and the US is winning. It is an election year, his main concern is gaining a positive standing in the polls and with  world opinion. He knows very little of reality ... Meanwhile when the second in command of the drug cartel is discovered to have acted on *highly* classified information, known only to a *select* few, the accusations in Washington, DC fly. An insider investigation begins to discover where the leaks occured ... This book is nonstop action and difficult to put down. Each chapter reveals another complex episode which adds another layer of under-handed deals and shady activity, all of which make this a most satisfying reading experience.<br /><br />Although at times this novel is difficult to follow, the subject matter is contemporary and the unfolding events are highly plausible, making it one unstoppable page turner. The planning and execution of the ninja-styled warrior commandos is superb, the covert operations highly ingenious, the political subterfuge and communications are labyrinthine, shocking in their believability. Expect only the best from Tom Clancy ... you will never be disappointed.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)and with  world opinion. He knows very little of reality ... Meanwhile when the second in command of the drug cartel is discovered to have acted on *highly* classified information, known only to a *select* few, the accusations in Washington, DC fly. An insider investigation begins to discover where the leaks occured ... This book is nonstop action and difficult to put down. Each chapter reveals another complex episode which adds another layer of under-handed deals and shady activity, all of which make this a most satisfying reading experience.<br /><br />Although at times this novel is difficult to follow, the subject matter is contemporary and the unfolding events are highly plausible, making it one unstoppable page turner. The planning and execution of the ninja-styled warrior commandos is superb, the covert operations highly ingenious, the political subterfuge and communications are labyrinthine, shocking in their believability. Expect only the best from Tom Clancy ... you will never be disappointed.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-04-23
US	48282789	R22JM1FWB4WZZC	1592640516	733632110	Aleppo Tales	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Religious Tradition and Faith Define Community	What I expected was a volume of short stories about life in Aleppo, Syria ... I found this and much more. What I discovered was a wonderful saga where the religious traditions, the foundation of life in Aleppo, became a golden thread which connected the lives of several generations of descendants from Aleppo, some of whom were faithful and a few who were tempted to stray from religious practice and how they returned to the traditions of their ancestors. In this book the reader discovers how religious values, practice, and faith provides the strength for different generations from this community to live through difficult times, build meaningful lives now and for future generations ... no matter where they live in the world.<br /><br />Passages from the Torah are interspersed, various religious holidays are discussed in proper context, specific religious terminology is used appropriately and with emphasis within certain passages ... the uninitiated reader gets a true flavor of the culture and depth of religious practice which is extremely important in the lives of the characters all of whom have roots in Aleppo. I was thoroughly impressed with how the author used a nonlinear approach to weave the past and present throughout the stories in this book. This approach made them even more real. The inclusion of the lyrics of certain hymns during religious holidays and the description of specific religous practices provides a cohesive bond in the stories.<br /><br />One story involved a mystery about why a particular line in a hymn had been changed. The main character uncovered how a serious dissension within a religous community resulted in an important hymn being altered. Another appealing story was about a very intelligent student from Aleppo who won a scholarship to study in Paris and that he failed to follow his religious teaching. He became a protestor and held very strong political convictions; he was sincere and had many followers. By chance he visited the Louvre where he found a menorah which looked familiar. Upon closer inspection he saw his family name  engraved on the menorah ... how this occurrence changed his life is worth discovering. There are many stories within each chapter that are just as poignant and heart-warming. The last chapter in the book shows how a synagogue in Israel chose their rabbi and how a much beloved and revered rabbi from Aleppo received this honored position. There is also a surprise ending that is filled with dignity, honor and respect. My interest was held by each story and chapter. Wisdom is revealed throughout the book along with the fascinating religious, spiritual and cultural contents.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)re he found a menorah which looked familiar. Upon closer inspection he saw his family name  engraved on the menorah ... how this occurrence changed his life is worth discovering. There are many stories within each chapter that are just as poignant and heart-warming. The last chapter in the book shows how a synagogue in Israel chose their rabbi and how a much beloved and revered rabbi from Aleppo received this honored position. There is also a surprise ending that is filled with dignity, honor and respect. My interest was held by each story and chapter. Wisdom is revealed throughout the book along with the fascinating religious, spiritual and cultural contents.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-04-07
US	48282789	R293OV0R8UYWKW	0609607480	8942458	Last Train to Paradise: Henry Flagler and the Spectacular Rise and Fall of the Railroad that Crossed an Ocean	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Standard Oil Magnate Turns into Florida Railroad Entrepeneur	Henry Morrison Flagler, multimillioniaire and second richest man in the world (John. D. Rockefeller being the first), came to Jacksonville, FL with his first wife, to help her recover from bronchitis, a chronic condition which plagued her in Long Island, New York, their home up north. First, he fell in love with Florida, and second, his businessman's acumen took over ... he saw opportunity where others only saw a wilderness. He built the first railroad traversing across Florida from Jacksonville to Miami. He built the \\"eighth wonder of the world\\" ... many bridges across the Florida Keys, across miles of water, connecting the southern most point in the United States with the mainland. He opened south Florida as a resort to the wealthy by building hotels in St. Augustine and Palm Beach. And when he visited the bustling port of Key West, the closest link to the Caribbean and South America, he got the brilliant idea to build a railroad from what is now Homestead, FL to Key West which at the time was the largest city and busiest port in Florida. Initially, he was ridiculed, he was criticized, he could not even get investors to put their money into the project. As the ultimate risk-taker, he used up his own savings, approximately 28 - 30 million dollars to make his dream, his vision for the future come true. He left a legacy in Florida which will not be forgotten But there was a steep cost ... not just in money  ... but in men's lives.<br /><br />Henry Morrison Flagler did his market research. He determined that for economic reasons Florida was ripe for development. It had huge tracts ready for orchard farmers to grow tropical fruit to transport to the rest of the USA. The cites of Jacksonville, St. Augustine, and Miami benefited from the golden touch of Flagler ... he built hotels for himself and his wealthy friends which included the finest amenities of his day. The wealthy flocked to the pristine white beaches and newly built golf courses. They viewed the beautiful sunsets and heard the waves crashing on shore ... but they would *not* risk their money on Flagler's  vision. Flagler's project needed capital and also labor. He hired the best trained bridge-building engineers and project managers, men who relished his vision and the supreme challenge of a lifetime.<br /><br />In this book, we learn how men were recruited from all the major cities of the USA and many from Europe (primarily Italy and Spain) and the Caribbean islands (specifically, the Cayman Islands) to do the back-breaking labor in the hot tropical climate of Florida amidst mosquitoes and slimy boggy waters ... but the most menacing threat was not even recognized until it struck unexpectedly and with deadly force ... the hurricane. The camps were destroyed, men lost their lives, bodies and body parts were hurdled with abandon, and men simply disappeared under water, swallowed up by the ocean. Yet, the \\"conchs\\" (as people living on the Florida Keys were called) recovered despite the devastation. Even with huge losses of money and lives, Henry Flagler pursued his dream until it became reality. After nearly going into debt and with failing eyesight and poor health,  Henry Morrison Flagler lived to view the monument he thought would last beyond his lifetime ... a living legacy for all Floridians ... a railroad connecting all the Florida Keys to the mainland. Sadly, the railroad only lasted about 22 years before progress took a different turn  ... automobiles were gaining popularity and a highway was built. However to his credit, the bridges he built were of such superior quality (some still stand today) they were used for the infrastructure of the highway. This book is a testimony to the man, the times, and his vision ... it is a magnificent opus which is highly worth reading. It is an adventure story that also includes some surprisingly spicy romance (after his first wife died, Flagler had two other wives each about 35 years younger than himself). Most importantly, the book includes descriptions of 'man against nature' with harrowing details that cause ripples of uneasy sensations to crawl on one's skin ... Having lived through *four* hurricanes in 2004, two disastrous ones named Charley and Ivan, this reader appreciates and respects the forces of nature. This is one book I could not put down until the very end. It leaves me wanting to know more about Henry Morrison Flagler, the man, the millionaire, the visionary railroad entrepeneur. Erika Borsos (erikab3)ook includes descriptions of 'man against nature' with harrowing details that cause ripples of uneasy sensations to crawl on one's skin ... Having lived through *four* hurricanes in 2004, two disastrous ones named Charley and Ivan, this reader appreciates and respects the forces of nature. This is one book I could not put down until the very end. It leaves me wanting to know more about Henry Morrison Flagler, the man, the millionaire, the visionary railroad entrepeneur. Erika Borsos (erikab3)	2005-04-04
US	48282789	R6RCJPFELWC2L	0385170343	328768428	Breakthrough: Meister Eckhart's Creation Spirituality in New Transition	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fox's Views of Eckhart: Paths to the Creative Spirit	Matthew Fox provides a light for those interested in understanding the mystical experience of Meister Eckhart. I am not a religous scholar and can not interpret the accuracy of Fox's translations but for me this is secondary, what matter most is: Matthew Fox provides the words and breathes new life into the writings of Eckhart. The words ring true [for me] because I detect there seems more 'stress' and 'struggle' in everyday life, where competing interests vie for one's time, energy and inner resources. It seems more true *now* than in the past 10 years. Maneuvering in everyday reality means playing systems which deplete one's very life force ('spirit'). The purpose of 'being' seems to be \\"creative\\" and as stated in Genesis after G-d created the world he pronounced his creation \\"good\\". Humans being created in the image of G-d, if at the end of our day we can not do this then there is a real problem. The essence of life seems 'to create' and find 'meaning', i.e. contentment, satisfaction, \\"repose\\" is what Matthew Fox translated Meister Eckhart had written. The next step is determining how this is done. One answer is 'read this book'. Simply stated ... find a quiet place everyday and read this book. After that, let the ideas float, rise, diffuse into your being. Apply the principles and ask yourself whether or not you are a better person for this experience, recognizing of course, that besides 'being' ... there is the 'doing'. So one must first connect with one's 'spirit' and after that begin 'creation' ...<br /><br />There are many topics/sermons which Matthew Fox interprets for the reader. The ones most meaningful for me are: \\"Where the soul is, there is G-d\\", \\"Letting G-d be G-d in You\\", \\"How the Creator Seeks Repose and the Trinity Seeks Repose\\", \\"Waking Up to the Nearness of G-d's Kingdom\\", \\"How All Creatures Share an Equality of Being\\", \\"Bread is Given for us for Others, on Account of Others - Especially the Indigent\\" and \\"Everyone an Aristocrat, Everyone a Royal Person\\". Indeed, there is much food for thought and action in the 545 pages of text. Some of my favorite quotes from the book are \\"People do all their deeds for these two things: repose and pleasure. I have also said people can never feel joy in any creature if G-d's likeness is not within it\\" (Sermon 27). Another is from Sermon 15: \\"Everything that ever came out of G-d once stood in pure activity. But the activity proper to people is to love and to know.\\" And one more from Sermon 15, \\"When people still stood in G-d's eternal being, nothing else lived in them. What lived there was themselves. Hence we say people should be as free of their own knowledge as when they were not yet, letting G-d accomplish whatever G-d wills. People should stand empty.\\" Let these ideas and thoughts permeate your being and renew your spirit and inspire meaning in your life. This is what most people long for but are too busy struggling in life to find or build it.  Erika Borsos (erikab93)l Person\\". Indeed, there is much food for thought and action in the 545 pages of text. Some of my favorite quotes from the book are \\"People do all their deeds for these two things: repose and pleasure. I have also said people can never feel joy in any creature if G-d's likeness is not within it\\" (Sermon 27). Another is from Sermon 15: \\"Everything that ever came out of G-d once stood in pure activity. But the activity proper to people is to love and to know.\\" And one more from Sermon 15, \\"When people still stood in G-d's eternal being, nothing else lived in them. What lived there was themselves. Hence we say people should be as free of their own knowledge as when they were not yet, letting G-d accomplish whatever G-d wills. People should stand empty.\\" Let these ideas and thoughts permeate your being and renew your spirit and inspire meaning in your life. This is what most people long for but are too busy struggling in life to find or build it.  Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-31
US	48282789	RB2NJFVLDULZS	0486414175	226373744	Gitanjali (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	As Beautiful Today as when First Published in 1913	Rabindranath Tagore offers the discerning reader \\"manna for the spirit\\". In truth, this small volume of poetry consists of English translations of Bengali songs of worship. My well worn copy from 1971 (MacMillan and Company, New York) has stood the test of time, being read and reread many times in the past 24 years. Surprise (!!!) the price only went up by 5 cents!<br /><br />Tagore is my favorite poet, he approaches the deepest most spiritual aspects of life with simplicity, grace, and reverence. Using the imagery of nature, he connects the reader to the truth of living, being, experiencing this world in all its myriad of forms. His poems touch depths within the soul of the reader in unexpected and unimaginable ways ...<br /><br />Perhaps at the end of the day, the reader can concur with the words of Tagore in poem # 16: \\"I have had my invitation to life's festival, and my life has been blessed. My eyes have seen and my ears have heard. It was my part to play upon my instrument, and I have done all I could. Now, I ask, has the time come at last when I may go in and see thy face and offer thee my salutations.\\"<br /><br />Excerpts from Poem # 57 \\"The butterflies spread their sails on the sea of light. Lilies and jasmines surge up on the crest of the waves of light. The light is shattered into gold on every cloud, my darling, and it scatters gems into profusion. Mirth spreads from leaf to leaf, my darling, and gladness without measure.\\"<br /><br />Poem # 90 \\"On the day when death will knock at thy door what wilt thou offer him?\\"<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-31
US	48282789	R2I4HF5PCR112Y	0425184226	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Mysterious Nuclear Explosion - Paranoia - Nearly WWIII	Tom Clancy is brilliant and absolutely without equal for developing this complex plot filled with international, political and military action. When I picked this book up, I was glued to to the spot, unable to break from reading it. In this novel, he creates the worst-case scenario of world paranoia, where the two major world powers, the USA and former Soviet Union, play cat and mouse games with military technology and bomb-laden submarines, as the world leaders exchange communications, trying to read between the lines of carefully worded messages, to uncover the truth about a nuclear explosion in Denver, Colorado, the cause of which neither side can readily determine.<br /><br />This most believable book includes suspense, intrigue, political maneuvering, media manipulation and exploitation, espionage, cutting edge technology, military power and submarine warfare.  Arab terrorists combine forces with East German scientists. Disgruntled political activists, an American-Indian and German, get together under the most auspicious of circumstances to  destablize the world as we know it. The Arab terrorist group uses an East German scientist to redesign a nuclear bomb which was found by chance buried in a farmer's garden in Syria. All the characters are fleshed out, realistic, completely believable. They have personality traits which make the reader look forward to reading about their responses to circumstances that unfold. It is worth learning how this accidental find played into the hands of a terrorist organization who redesigned the nuclear device for their own purposes. It is worth discovering how the aftermath of this explosion creates havoc between the two super-powers. It is worth reading to see the effect this unexpected terrorist attack in Colorado has upon Washington, DC: the President, CIA Deputy Director Jack Ryan, the National Security Adviser, Liz Elliott, and the FBI. This cataclysmic event could unleash waves of destruction throughout the Middle East and the world, discovering its  resolution is worth reading. This roller coaster ride of a novel has so many ups and downs and twists and turns it should not be missed! Erika Borsos (erikab93)the world, discovering its  resolution is worth reading. This roller coaster ride of a novel has so many ups and downs and twists and turns it should not be missed! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-28
US	48282789	RIKAOMKK6TFAC	076531102X	578930089	Dark of the Sun: A Novel of the Count Saint-Germain (St. Germain)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	How a Vampire Survives after a World Cataclysm	This is the first \\"vampire\\" genre book I read and it nearly became my last. I was fascinated by the cover, the title and the praise on the cover jacket for the \\"Saint-Germain\\" novels. I was open to a new reading experience. Being captivated by the music of the Silk Road countries, the most recent of which is Yol Bolsin (CD), I was ready to read some fiction and 'escape' to this exotic locale. My anticipation was further fueled by the \\"author's introduction\\" where she describes the research which went into describing \\"Year of the Yellow Snow\\" approximately AD 535-6 when the volcano, Krakatoa, erupted and caused worldwide famine. The maps of China and Southeast Asia further whetted my appetite for this novel ... so I looked forward to an adventurous vicarious reading experience.<br /><br />The book begins via a letter to Zangi-Ragozh, whom we learn is a foreign merchant in China, who owns many ships and a trading company. The captain of one of his ships reports a catastrophe which could have disastrous effects on trade and shipping in Kuang-Chou (Canton). He describes men dying due to a yellow powder in the air ever since the volcano on an island erupted and caused tidal waves and rough seas. Zangi-Ragozh notices the sun is less bright ... There is fear in the air. The local Chinese magistrate is expected to take strong measures against foreigners in the region. The decision by Zangi-Ragozh is to inventory his merchandise, close his home, leave his servants to run the established trading company and return to his homeland ... the Carpa-Ti (Carpathian Mountains). Much of the book chronicles the journey of this vampire and his traveling companion as they go across China, traversing the Silk Road back to Romania, the ancestral home of Saint-Germain, who in this life is named \\"Zangi-Ragozh\\".<br /><br />The main creative device the author uses in this novel is letter-writing, she alternates chapters chronicling Zangi-Ragozh's travels-adventures with detailed letters (some sent to him) by captains of his ships, servants who run his trading house, or a love interest, others are letters written by local magistrates sent to government officials describing the difficulties of the times, unfortunately this technique becomes rather tiresome. Additionally, too much of the book consists of conversations between the vampire and his traveling companion, it becomes a real chore to continue reading. I nearly gave up. Had the author interspersed descriptions of action packed 'man-against-nature' adventures on the ships or had she connected some past life experiences of Saint-Germain with Atta Olivia Clemens (a past love interest), the novel would have been more interesting. This book has all the trappings of a wonderful sizzling 'unable-to-put-it-down' novel but it *nearly* fizzles out. Luckily three-quarters of the way through, the novel *finally* comes to life, is successfully rescusitated. The book is worth reading to discover how the author salvages a dull beginning and middle with an unexpected explosive dramatic event.<br /><br />In all honesty I can not give the book rave reviews (I really wanted to). The author should have described the natural scenery along the Silk Road, the storms at sea, and the life of that era much better, even the many letters written to Zangi-Ragozh some of which never reach him, seem like a substitute for what is seriously lacking in the plot: creative design (which arrives *almost* too late). The essential story-line is simple and straightforward therefore it needs something exciting to hook the reader's imagination *throughout* the novel, not just at the end. Despite the often flat affect of the supporting characters, the star, Zangi-Ragozh shines very brightly. He has fully developed personality and is very likeable - there is much depth to his actions and behavior. Another huge plus is the book could be made into a film with breath-taking natural beauty and unforgettable action-packed scenes because on film the contents of the letters become *visual*. The suspense and drama would be magnified on film. My prediction is, as a movie it would be a multimillion dollar winner. Erika Borsos (erikab93)e contents of the letters become *visual*. The suspense and drama would be magnified on film. My prediction is, as a movie it would be a multimillion dollar winner. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-22
US	48282789	R3CSRNGMAT55XN	014100231X	251360648	The Glance: Songs of Soul-Meeting (Compass)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Metamorphosis of  Brilliance	A glance ... a gaze ... full recognition ... connection ... that is how I felt reading some of these poems. Anyone who has  experienced strong emotions which transpose events into a new way of \\"seeing\\" ... turning an ordinairy experience into a spiritual, other-worldly, almost \\"divine\\" encounter will understand the impact of Rumi's poems. The trigger could be a heart-felt conversation, an over-powering view of nature, or a deeply buried emotion which surfaces, or meeting someone special. Rumi describes many life experiences. Each poem is like a crystal which reveals a flash of infinity that is captured in words. The world would be a better place if more people could relate to the brilliance revealed by Rumi's poems.<br /><br />Coleman Barks  provides unparalleled free verse translations which breathe new life into these ancient verses. His highly appealing style makes the poems palatable to modern readers. Maybe, just maybe, Rumi loved life more and dared to live it more fully ... than many people livng today. Perhaps, more \\"love for life\\" can be awakened in the readers of these poems. We can only hope ... Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-15
US	48282789	R3IS57E1RKIHGZ	1840008954	606212660	Hugh Johnson's Pocket Wine Book 2005	Books	5	9	9	N	N	My Favorite Wine Reference	Hugh Johnson has become an expert in selecting wines from around the world to recommend for audiences of all types: the expert, the gourmand, the affianado, as well as to the novice wine drinker who wishes to discover what new worlds of taste and sensation await them. Hugh Johnson's book covers a wide range of information in an erudite and clear manner. His analyses run from using basic symbols such as, one wine bottle for \\"plain, everyday quality\\", two wine bottles for \\"above average\\", three wine bottles for \\"well known, highly reputed\\", four wine bottles for \\"grand, presigious, expensive\\" ... to a dark blue star representing \\"usually particularly good value in its class\\". His book delivers excellent descriptions of wines from the main wine-growing countries of the world: France, Italy, Germany, Portugal, Spain, Austria, Switzerland, California as well as South America, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. He does an admirable job of describing key wines produced in the Eastern and Central and Southeastern European countries of Hungary, Bulgaria, Serbia, Croatia, Romania and Greece. One can learn about grape varieties and the types of wine produced from them. Most importantly one can learn what type of wine to pair up with what main dish or food. Indeed this book is the most up-to-date reference on over 6,000 different wines produced around the world. Hugh JOhnson has over 25 years of experience tasting and describing wines. The fact that over 7 million copies of his \\"Pocket Wine Book\\" series havebeen sold provides ample proof of his popularity and accuracy in providing \\"need to know\\" information for the expert and budding connoissieur in this fascinating realm. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-03-12
US	48282789	RVILUYL21P5OT	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amazing Space Capsule Exploration of the Universe	Art Bell interviewed eminent physicist Dr. Michio Kaku on his night time talk show Coast to Coast AM (still on the air but hosted by George Noory). He explained theories of the universe in a rational manner which made complex theories come alive in this listener's imagination. He provided descriptions that were palatable to a lay audience. He even entertained answering questions on the air. This taste led me to buy the book. Mankind has contemplated his or her place in the cosmos and exploring \\"what lies beyond \\" or \\"how the universe functions\\" since time immemorial. This book provides explanations to enhance the understanding many people seek ...<br /><br />The most fascinating and intriguing concept in the book refers to<br />the ten dimensions of hyperspace. Basic explanations are given for the strong force, weak force, gravitational force, electromagnetic force but the magic in this book lies in the descriptions of the quest for \\"unified theory\\" which will explain the operation of the universe in one single equation to the satisfaction of every theorist. The new geometry first conceived by George Bernard Reimann in 1854 was the most important mathematical conceptual discovery heading toward solving this puzzle. This mathematician first revealed an equation for the fourth dimension. This revolutionary equation created the geometric patterns possible to explain the existence of higher dimensions in the universe. Space travel, multiple dimensions, parallel universes, superstring theory, black holes, time warps, and paradoxes are described with lucidity in this book. The \\"Big Bang\\" theory is compared to the Biblical explanation. Anyone who has been mesmerized by viewing stars at night and wondered what lies beyond, will benefit from reading this book. The book is now over 10 years old but holds valuable ideas for readers interested in this complex subject. Other recommended books are \\"The Tao of Physics\\" by Fritjof Capra and \\"Dancing of the Wu Li Masters\\" by Gary Zukov. After listening to Dr. Michio Kaku I was hooked on learning more theories which explain the universe. His book is a great start on this quest. Erika Borsos (erikab93)kov. After listening to Dr. Michio Kaku I was hooked on learning more theories which explain the universe. His book is a great start on this quest. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-02-04
US	48282789	RFNFNG23043EL	9631309223	582519449	Hungarian Ethnography and Folklore	Books	5	4	4	N	N	*The* Most Complete and Well Researched Book on the Topic	While this book was available as of 5 - 6 years ago for a reasonable price ... due to its scarcity ... the price has quadrupled and for good reason. It is so hard to obtain that my local library could not find a copy on loan from libraries who have it. In my opinion, it is *the* most essential book written on Hungarian Ethnography and Folklore. The authors are highly eminent scholars in their field. I consider myself extremely lucky to have discovered a copy for sale after diligent searches on the internet, and even more fortunate that it was the  English translation (I could have plodded through the Hungarian but this way it is much easier). Originally, the book was titled \\"Magyar Neprajz\\" and published by Corvina Kiado in Budapest, Hungary (1979).<br /><br />At first, the most striking feature of the book is the jacket cover: bright colorful photos of a peasant house,  two shepherds in their stylishly embroidered cloaks, and a wedding photo, likely of Transylvanian folk costumes, and a ceramic jug. The back cover is just as fascinating, several multi-colored intricately embroidered table cloths in brilliant red hues and complex floral patterns, three ceramic plates, and a \\"best room\\" with emboridered pillow covers and old peasant furniture. The next most notable feature of the book is, it is BIG, totalling 785 pages, if you count all the credits. And most enticing are:. the inside photos ... along with the scholarly research and detailed contents of each chapter. The book is very comprehensive in scope and depth. It details many of the folk customs, regional costumes, peasant homes, folklore designs, music, instruments, embroidery, cemetery grave posts, patterns of village settlement, furniture styles, designs and patterns of homes, farming implements, animal husbandry, beehives, fishing implements and techniques, earthenware designs and manufacture, hair braiding and headddresses, and much more. The outstanding photographs and illustrations provide the reader a better appreciation for the past. They emphasize the vast amount of energy and talent it took to create such living memories of folk art and life. This is a \\"must own\\" book for anyone interested in Hungarian folklore, folk art, folk music and the ancient past of Hungary. It receives my most enthusiastic and highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)etter appreciation for the past. They emphasize the vast amount of energy and talent it took to create such living memories of folk art and life. This is a \\"must own\\" book for anyone interested in Hungarian folklore, folk art, folk music and the ancient past of Hungary. It receives my most enthusiastic and highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-02-02
US	48282789	R39NU8EBZVUDRA	0374115435	774225373	A Book of Memories: A Novel	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Exposing the Soul During a Historical Turning Point	I was drawn to the cover ... a photo of the Hungarian Parliament building sitting on the edge of the Danube ... surrounded by a fog. Had I listened to the old adage \\"Don't judge a book by its cover\\" ...  most likely I would *not* have read the book. This is a highly complex and controversial book but *not* as one would expect, because of its political contents, the most probable reason that it was a five year battle with the censors in Hungary before it was permitted to be published. No ... the world has long acknowledged there was  repression experienced in Central and Eastern Europe during the post World War II Communist occupation of this region. In fact, many books have been published examining the causes and outcomes of the Hungarian Revolution in 1956. This book is risque because of the highly personal experiences revealed by the sensitive and intelligent main character whose memoirs we are reading. The daring revelations could push people's \\"buttons\\", those who make moral judgements about what two consenting adults do during intimate moments, those of the same gender or opposite. Frankly, had I known this was in the book, I would not have bought it. As it stands, the events unfolded gradually and amazingly, I was not shocked, after all, it was the main character's memoirs. The emotional complexity of the novel intertwines on many levels, with many different recollections of life experiences at different ages. The descriptions are highly personal and direct, it is as if we, the reader have a connection to how the character's mind works. The writing is elegant, the emotions are deep, the thoughts are intense ... It is a serious novel written with great attention to detail and texture. The descriptions of people's actions, the interpretation of their feelings and responses shows the author, Peter Nadas to be a man of refined sensitivity and superior intelligence. His description of the personal impact of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 on the lives of everyday people is extremely accurate and most highly impressive. I can say this because my family lived through it. The event divided us by many hundreds of thousands of miles across the Atlantic Ocean ... from our relatives  ... although it also created closer emotional ties to our homeland, Hungary.<br /><br />The book begins when the main character is living in East Berlin, he recalls the topsy turvy life he leads, describing the eccentric people who are his friends ... and his experiences during those turbulent times. The writing is complex because interwoven within the novel are connections to past events when the main character was growing up. We learn of his childhood and friends, who later play major roles in his emotional expiation of life experiences. Overall, this book is recommended for its profound and beautiful writing ... with reservations for those who are puritanical in their tastes about reading very personal intimate revelations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)people is extremely accurate and most highly impressive. I can say this because my family lived through it. The event divided us by many hundreds of thousands of miles across the Atlantic Ocean ... from our relatives  ... although it also created closer emotional ties to our homeland, Hungary.<br /><br />The book begins when the main character is living in East Berlin, he recalls the topsy turvy life he leads, describing the eccentric people who are his friends ... and his experiences during those turbulent times. The writing is complex because interwoven within the novel are connections to past events when the main character was growing up. We learn of his childhood and friends, who later play major roles in his emotional expiation of life experiences. Overall, this book is recommended for its profound and beautiful writing ... with reservations for those who are puritanical in their tastes about reading very personal intimate revelations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-01-29
US	48282789	R2HE4060LKT05N	0815607601	710854041	Classic Yiddish Stories of S. Y. Abramovitsh, Sholem Aleichem, and I. L. Peretz (Judaic Traditions in Literature, Music, and Art)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Turn-of-the-century Life: E. European Culture and Humor	Discovered this volume of translated Yiddish stories quite by chance or more likely by \\"serendipity\\" as Dr. Carl Gustav Jung would say. My reading interests lean toward understanding different cultures, religious beliefs and customs. This book covers all these topics This book contains the writing of three famous authors, S.Y. Abramovitsh, called \\"the grandfather of modern Yiddish literature\\", Sholem Aleichem, considered \\"grandson\\" to the master who adds a comedic twist to his stories, and I.L. Peretz who according to the introduction founded modern Yiddish modernism. I knew I was in for a delicious treat as I read the first page of the first story ...<br /><br />\\"The Little Man: or Portait of a Life\\" begins with Mendele the Book Peddler introducing himself and his trade ... how as he travels from place to place he learns about human behavior as he indulges his curiousity in observing and commenting about people. The reader is tickled by the translation as Mendele shares his deep insights about human nature, with a wonderful Yiddish accent. He sums up part of his philosophy as follows, \\"Believe me, all the world is a marketplace. Everyone wants the other guy to lose so he could gain. Everyone is looking for bargains. ... Rich people always seem a little lost and worried. If you've got money, what's to worry about? Seems to me that you don't need any fancy ideas about money.  But I am getting off the point\\". [p.5] Needless to say, it is a highly educational experience to learn how Mendele concludes what characteristics describe \\"the little man\\". Indeed, his views apply to modern man in the 21st century!!<br /><br />The second story, \\"Fishke, the Lame: A Story of Poor Jewish Folks\\" is another brilliantly written story . The reader is provided a description of an afternoon on the 17th of Tammuz in the heat of the summer ... you can just see the flies buzzing and feel the humidity and sweltering heat, no breeze, no relief of a rain shower in sight. At the foot of the Green Mountain, children are dancing and singing, as people greet the Reb, his only response is \\"Bah!\\" In this unique story, the reader is introduced to the concept, even the lame and crippled are G-d's children and, as such, entitled to some happiness and earthly pleasures. We are provided glimpses of life lived in the late 1860s. At the time, Fishke, the Lame was matched to marry \\"the blind orphan girl\\". Fishke had often been over-looked in the past from this time-honored tradition of matching up cripples, scoundrels, and beggars with unmarried girls. This usually occured during epidemics and conscriptions, in hopes of ending the events in question. Unexpectedly, this story provides greater insight into the behavior of one of the more prominent upright citizens of the community rather than the lame and crippled.<br /><br />Sholem Aleichem's story \\"Hodel\\" provides a marvellous description of how one of the dairy farmer's beautiful daughters gets married to a student, whose subject of study is secretive. Hodel suddenly gets an interest in reading books and grammar after the student becomes a guest boarder in the Tevye's home ... The conversations and colloquial speech are rendered so effectively this story is a pleasure to read. All the stories are superbly written! This book provides the modern reader an outstanding  cast of colorful and memorable characters who live an almost mythical existence during one the most unique times in history. Receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)een Mountain, children are dancing and singing, as people greet the Reb, his only response is \\"Bah!\\" In this unique story, the reader is introduced to the concept, even the lame and crippled are G-d's children and, as such, entitled to some happiness and earthly pleasures. We are provided glimpses of life lived in the late 1860s. At the time, Fishke, the Lame was matched to marry \\"the blind orphan girl\\". Fishke had often been over-looked in the past from this time-honored tradition of matching up cripples, scoundrels, and beggars with unmarried girls. This usually occured during epidemics and conscriptions, in hopes of ending the events in question. Unexpectedly, this story provides greater insight into the behavior of one of the more prominent upright citizens of the community rather than the lame and crippled.<br /><br />Sholem Aleichem's story \\"Hodel\\" provides a marvellous description of how one of the dairy farmer's beautiful daughters gets married to a student, whose subject of study is secretive. Hodel suddenly gets an interest in reading books and grammar after the student becomes a guest boarder in the Tevye's home ... The conversations and colloquial speech are rendered so effectively this story is a pleasure to read. All the stories are superbly written! This book provides the modern reader an outstanding  cast of colorful and memorable characters who live an almost mythical existence during one the most unique times in history. Receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2005-01-05
US	48282789	R2NOJO9ICRQ11W	0425198731	362587713	Blow Fly (Scarpetta)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	A Man on Death Row Summons Dr. K. Scarpetta ...	This novel has enough intrigue and mystery to hold the interest of any avid reader who enjoys a good chase for clues, a lot of investigative work that takes a person to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Boston, Mass, and Szczecin, Poland. There are hints of romance between characters that *could* rekindle from the past. Most importantly, the reader gets to understand the inner workings of a weird twisted mind, the mind of a mass murderer.<br /><br />I have never read a Dr. Kay Scarpetta novel before, therefore I came with an open mind. I really liked this book. It had me reading from cover to cover at one sitting. I was unable to put it down. I expected a lot more gore and description of crime scenes, fortunately, this was done minimally, just enough to let you know it was a 'murder mystery' book. The plot thickens as Dr. Kay Scarpetta's neice, Lucy Farinelli and her partner, Zach, visit a crooked lawyer in Poland who is related to the murder case in Louisiana. They change the dynamics of the investigation through a well planned event they engineered ... except they failed to consider certain tell-tale clues, which could come back to haunt them.<br /><br />I love the way the author writes in a nonlinear fashion, mixing places and events from chapter to chapter, so that you *want* to keep reading  ... to discover  who the characters are and how they interact to reveal the mysteries woven into the story. This novel is really a work of art ... I recommend it whole heartedly. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-12-29
US	48282789	R14HKDX30SAEU5	0618197354	786188992	The Best American Short Stories 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Expansive Multi-Perspective Appealing Life Stories	Lorrie Moore had the unenviable task of selecting twenty short stories to include in this collection. As an author and avid reader she undoubtedly enjoyed her assignment. This volume includes an eclectic variety of stories with different subjects, settings and emotional tones. The writing styles of the many authors is very striking which can be a two edged sword for the reader, and I might add, the reviewer. Initially, I was put off by the variety and differences, for me, it is much easier to read stories by one author whose writing style is familiar. However, as I continued reading, I began to enjoy the vast expanse of human experiences being described and the diverse life styles being revealed.<br /><br />In the first story, \\"What You Pawn I Will Reveal\\", Sherman Storie describes the lifestyle of a homeless Indian in Spokane, Washington. The reader is exposed to the culture, the friendships, the rules of life, and the establishment which both supports and challenges the homeless. The story takes a unique turn when the protaganist discovers a pow-wow Indian dance regalia in the window of a pawnshop. His mission becomes to regain ownership of this family heirloom. The story is worth reading to discover how this street person manages to do exactly that ... Another fascinating story is \\"Screenwriter\\". The main character is a patient in the psychiatric ward of a hospital. He is a wealthy screen writer who has had suicidal ideation since the age of ten, and which continued into adulthood, despite his successful career. It is the reason he is hospitalized. The reader is exposed to the inner thinking of this mental patient as he attempts to develop a serious relationship with a female 'in mate' who is known as 'the ballerina'. The story is fascinating as the reader experiences first-hand the challenges of beating the odds of establishing meaningful 'human contact' in an environment which is set up to prevent *exactly* that sort of thing. As they say, \\"where there is a will, there is a way\\" ... one needs to read the story to find out what happens. Another highly engaging story is \\"All Saints Day.\\" On Nov. 1st, the United Methodist Church is having a \\"costume party\\" of sorts where the children are to dress up as Biblical characters.  During the same time, some children hear a story about a youngster, Ryan, who is believed to be possessed by a demon. Ryan's behavior has been deteriorating adn even doctors could not determine the cause. His parents, along with the help of the minister, made the decision to do an 'excorcism'. The author does a stupendous job of combining the two events in a fascinating, creative and hilarious manner. One needs to read the story to discover what Biblical character ends up 'curing' Ryan of his 'demon' when the adult interventions were essentially unsuccessful. There are many other stories with equally unusual and engaging subject matter ... some are funny, some are serious: about friendship, justice, individuality, marriage, and even risque adult content. All of the stories are recommended as worth reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)l, there is a way\\" ... one needs to read the story to find out what happens. Another highly engaging story is \\"All Saints Day.\\" On Nov. 1st, the United Methodist Church is having a \\"costume party\\" of sorts where the children are to dress up as Biblical characters.  During the same time, some children hear a story about a youngster, Ryan, who is believed to be possessed by a demon. Ryan's behavior has been deteriorating adn even doctors could not determine the cause. His parents, along with the help of the minister, made the decision to do an 'excorcism'. The author does a stupendous job of combining the two events in a fascinating, creative and hilarious manner. One needs to read the story to discover what Biblical character ends up 'curing' Ryan of his 'demon' when the adult interventions were essentially unsuccessful. There are many other stories with equally unusual and engaging subject matter ... some are funny, some are serious: about friendship, justice, individuality, marriage, and even risque adult content. All of the stories are recommended as worth reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-12-20
US	48282789	RI7QJ2X48ZQYN	0061093335	495185639	Nora, Nora: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Eccentric Lives in the1960s: A Small Town in Georgia	Anne River Siddons paints a wonderful portrait of a young girl growing up and coming of age into adulthood in a small town in Georgia during a time of innocence. After her eccentric cousin Nora comes to visit Peyton McKenzie, her life is turned topsy turvy and so are the lives of several other residents of the town. Peyton is on the verge of becoming a teenager, she never met anyone like Nora, who is independent and does not hesitate to challenge conventional thinking and the local establishment. Peyton harbors guilt for having killed her mother during childbirth, her mom died after she was born. Peyton belongs to an exclusive club, \\"The Loser's Club\\" ,where she and a few select friends share their 'secrets'. Peyton was raised by a single parent her father, who loves her but is somewhat remote. He has a housekeeper who also served as Peyton's nanny. Her highly particular Aunt Augusta (father's sister) took a benign interest in trying to feminize Peyton who resists these changes .... Peyton learns Nora is her mother's cousin's daughter and that a dispute between between the cousins, her mother and Nora's mother, occured sometime when Lila Lee (Peyton's mom) married her dad. Ms Siddons weaves numerous anecdotal events from the lives of her characters throughout the story ... many are amusing and charming which makes reading the book a delightful experience. Some mysterous events from the past eventually are revealed which shed light on the relationship between Peyton's and Nora's mother. Nora has some secrets of her own ... she lived a highly unusual independent life in her young adulthood. She is ahead of her time, the 1960s, in terms of civil rights, free thinking, and expresssion of personal freedom ... which she exerts. Her expressions of independence eventually land Nora into problems ... first with higher ups in the small town ... next with a past resident who made it to Hollywood and the big screen ... and eventually with Peyton's father who feels Nora is having a bad influence over Peyton.<br /><br />The development of plot and characters is outstanding in this novel. The story is woven with finely honed skill. It unwinds to reveal how past secrets which were so safely guarded affect people's lives even today... Peyton learns how the lives of those loves are very complicated when the emotions and the heart are opened up. This is a highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)g a bad influence over Peyton.<br /><br />The development of plot and characters is outstanding in this novel. The story is woven with finely honed skill. It unwinds to reveal how past secrets which were so safely guarded affect people's lives even today... Peyton learns how the lives of those loves are very complicated when the emotions and the heart are opened up. This is a highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-12-11
US	48282789	R1SPSFGLPWW4AX	0515132187	900032230	The Villa	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Romance, Mystery, California Vineyards with Roots in Italy	I avoided Nora Roberts novels until this one but the vineyards and murder mystery intrigued me, so I was captured. I have no regrets. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. On page one, we learn a close friend of the family who worked the vineyards for the Giambelli winery in Italy was murdered. Tereza Giambelli, the matriarch, inherited the family business and was having a family get together, a gathering of the clan ... which could mean only one thing: she was  ready to relinquish some power over the wine-producing dynasty ... but the question remained, \\"to whom?\\"<br /><br />We discover she has known the owner of the rival winery, the MacMillan Winery, for many years and has proposed a merger with the Giambelli Vineyards, combining 156 years of experience in the wine industry with 5 generations having been vintners and wine merchants. To everyone's surprise, \\"La Signora\\" Tereza  is dividing up the ownership and responsibilities for running the business *much* differently than anticipated. A young adult in each of the families will take on the major responsibility for wine production and sales. Tereza knows the faults of her sons and daughter all too well. She does the unthinkable and provides the next generation, a young adult in each of the families the major responsibiity for wine-production and world wide sales. Sophia of the Giambellis, the granddaughter of the grand dame was chosen as a Vice President of Operations and Tyler of the MacMillans was also given the same title. The two families were cemented together as the world-wide producer of the finest wines. Each of these young adults were challenged to meet performance expectations with the pay off of 20% owenrship of the company if they were found satisfactory after one year's time elapsed. The newly combined firm of Giambelli-MacMillan Wines needed a Chief Operating Officer. A divorced man, David Cuttler, working at a well established firm was suggested and later selected. David was at first reticent to take on the position but discovered he relished the challenges and changes associated with moving from New York to California. Additionally, he had two teenagers to consider in the equation, a son and daughter.<br /><br />There are numerous intrigues and links which connect the Giambelli family to their roots in Italy ... some dark secrets are discovered there. Both Sophia and Tyler are unexpectedly drawn to travel to Italy to explore the beginnings of the wine business in the past. Pilar, Sophia's mother and her exhusband, (Sophia's dad), Tony have many complex emotional issues to resolve. The romantic connections which develop between characters in the novel are a compelling read. There is a threat to the success of the merger between the Giambellis and MacMillans which comes from unexpected sources. Reading the book is a highly fulfilling and satisfying experience. Learn how the alliance between the two families is nearly destroyed ... and then saved. Most highly recommended novel. Erika Borsos (erikab93)the position but discovered he relished the challenges and changes associated with moving from New York to California. Additionally, he had two teenagers to consider in the equation, a son and daughter.<br /><br />There are numerous intrigues and links which connect the Giambelli family to their roots in Italy ... some dark secrets are discovered there. Both Sophia and Tyler are unexpectedly drawn to travel to Italy to explore the beginnings of the wine business in the past. Pilar, Sophia's mother and her exhusband, (Sophia's dad), Tony have many complex emotional issues to resolve. The romantic connections which develop between characters in the novel are a compelling read. There is a threat to the success of the merger between the Giambellis and MacMillans which comes from unexpected sources. Reading the book is a highly fulfilling and satisfying experience. Learn how the alliance between the two families is nearly destroyed ... and then saved. Most highly recommended novel. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-12-09
US	48282789	R39WIQYM9RICJF	0393059197	446185011	Inheritance	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Magnificent Family Dynasty 1911 - Present	The story begins when two young girls accompany their mother to a 'fortune teller' who also is a nun at a Buddhist temple. Changyi who is 34 years of age, knows she must give birth to a boy to keep her husband from acquirng another wife. The nun tells her truthfully, some women have only girls, and some women learn to share their men. She also reveals the fortunes of the two daughters. Changyi feels hopeless and we learn she later dies an early death due to her grief. The two daughters, Junan and Yinan, although different physically and temperamentally, grow very close after their father takes on a new 'mistress' an addiction to gambling. He is a wealthy cotton merchant who goes into debt because of this. Several generations live in the family home, including his mother, who has a position of honor and great prestige. When the girls' mother was alive, they had a very loyal servant, Hu Mudan who helped raise the girls into young adults. After their mother's death, she became even more indispensable and valuable in their lives. Much later in the story she plays a very important role in the life of one of Junan's daughters.<br /><br />Communism was challenging Nationalist China for supremacy and power just when Juan and Yinan were approaching the marriagable age. Junan entered into an arranged marriage with a soldier Li Ang who was a Nationalist. It turned out to be a \\"love match\\" just as predicted by the fortune-telling nun. His brother, Li Bing, who studied at the University, was influenced by the new ideology of Communism and took the view of the opposition. As the political tides turned, Junan gradually sold off her valuables in hopes of escaping the conflicts and difficult future ahead in her war-torn country. She gave birth to her first child, a daughter, Hong, and later to another daughter she named Hwa It seemed the family curse to bear only daughters was reoccuring in her life. Having developed great survival skills Junan came up with a unique solution to the concern she had that her husband might take up with a mistress. Her solution would later haunt her in unexpected ways ...<br /><br />As war broke out, politics, complex social and emotional relationships and loyalties tested this family to the max. They separated for their own survival. Junan emigrated with her two daughters to Taiwan and later to America. It is amazing how the author developed the themes of love, lust, and politics which divided this family and how despite geographical and emotional distance, she wove together their lives toward the end of the story. The author very neatly showed how the very problems which separated this family helped them unite and bond at the end. The author showed how the younger generation sought to renew the ties of the past which were severed by distance and time but not by feeling. Junan's sister, Yinan and her husband Li Ang remained in China throughout the Communist era. Junan's daughters Hong and Hwa built new lives in the USA. The past haunted them in unimaginable ways. Some astonishing circumstances related to their old servant, Hu Mudan, created the ability for them to make peace with their past relationships in China. This is a highly charged emotional novel which will hold the attention of readers who love complex social and family relationships that are resolved within a history and cultural context. Erika Borsos (bakonyvilla)concern she had that her husband might take up with a mistress. Her solution would later haunt her in unexpected ways ...<br /><br />As war broke out, politics, complex social and emotional relationships and loyalties tested this family to the max. They separated for their own survival. Junan emigrated with her two daughters to Taiwan and later to America. It is amazing how the author developed the themes of love, lust, and politics which divided this family and how despite geographical and emotional distance, she wove together their lives toward the end of the story. The author very neatly showed how the very problems which separated this family helped them unite and bond at the end. The author showed how the younger generation sought to renew the ties of the past which were severed by distance and time but not by feeling. Junan's sister, Yinan and her husband Li Ang remained in China throughout the Communist era. Junan's daughters Hong and Hwa built new lives in the USA. The past haunted them in unimaginable ways. Some astonishing circumstances related to their old servant, Hu Mudan, created the ability for them to make peace with their past relationships in China. This is a highly charged emotional novel which will hold the attention of readers who love complex social and family relationships that are resolved within a history and cultural context. Erika Borsos (bakonyvilla)	2004-12-07
US	48282789	R1PKI65E07P73H	1400041775	570663583	Little Black Book of Stories	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Incredibly Mysterious "Twilight-Zone"-Like Stories	This book has inventive, creative, modern, surprising stories with great depth. They often have a mysterious eeriness that hooks the reader from the start and keeps them glued until the finish. Some stories are fantasy or myth, others include a mix of the two with highly plausible reality, and others are highly reality based with a deep emotional cavern that is carefully revealed and explored ...<br /><br />Here is a small bit of some of these tempting stories ... \\"The Thing in the Forest\\" is about two little girls who are sent to a large mansion during World War II, separated from their parents with little explanation. Although from different social backgrounds, they befriend each other. When out playing, they are attracted to a deep dark forest which they attempt to explore. A little girl named \\"Alys\\" wants to join them whom they try to dissuade her but she follows them anyway. Whatever happened to Alys ... changeed their lives forever. Read the story to discover how as adults they return to the mansion during an \\"open house\\" and unexpectedly meet, reliving the time they explored the forest.<br /><br />In the story, \\"Body Art\\", Dr. Damian Beckett is a gynecologist  whose passion is collecting artwork, some of which he loans to decorate the unit where he works. Also, he is separated from his wife but not divorced. During Christmas time, he selects highly unusual modern artwork to place in the corridors of the gynecology wing. The artist lives locally, a young lady who has a pierced tongue, and also piercings on other parts of her body. The same young lady is hired to catalogue some ancient relics related to child-birth that is kept in a section of the gyn wing, which includes a collection of unborn fetuses kept as specimens in jars of formaldehyde. At some point, she borrows some relics from the collection to create a mysterious \\"Kali\\" statue (female Indian goddess) which is displayed in an art exhibit. It happens that Dr. Beckett visits the exhibit and takes a lady friend along. It is fascinating to read about Dr. Beckett's reaction and how the artwork seems to symbolize certain personal life issues with which the artist is struggling. Dr. Beckett and the artist, Daisy Whimple are forever bonded together on certain levels because of this  encounter. All the stories in this \\"little book\\" are riveting and thought-provoking. They will alter your viewpoint of reality and what is important in life. Erika Borsos (erikab93)y friend along. It is fascinating to read about Dr. Beckett's reaction and how the artwork seems to symbolize certain personal life issues with which the artist is struggling. Dr. Beckett and the artist, Daisy Whimple are forever bonded together on certain levels because of this  encounter. All the stories in this \\"little book\\" are riveting and thought-provoking. They will alter your viewpoint of reality and what is important in life. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-12-01
US	48282789	R1DU2IY15XZ50M	0062509594	106484852	The Essential Rumi, New Expanded Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Distilling Spirit in Every Thought, Vision, & Experience	\\"The Essential Rumi\\" translation by Coleman Barks was my first introduction to the poetry of Rumi (and *not* my last). I was hooked, captured, captivated ... by his imagery ... by the spiritual message conveyed via carefully selected words. I have five books of Rumi's poetry and would definitely buy more.<br /><br />Coleman Bark's translations provide the clearest message and are the easiest to read and understand. Despite living in the early 1200s and in Turkey, these poems stand the test of time. They are now almost 8 centuries (800 years) in age and continue to penetrate the minds of readers and mesmerize many cultures throughtout the entire world. This says more about the poetry than whatever inadequate words  I could write ...<br /><br />Here is a one sentence summary of this book: through his words and images ... Rumi connects the reader closer to the divine essence present in all that exists. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-11-26
US	48282789	R3SYX1HOSEJAUH	1569244030	56332888	One Heart: Universal Wisdom from the World's Scriptures	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Beautiful Necklace Made of Spiritual Pearls (Principles)	Bonnie Louise Kuchler did a tremendous amount of research, she sorted, sifted, gleaned, and read a great deal of the scripture and literature of the world's major religions (and some lesser known ones)and like others before her, she noted similarities. However, unlike many, she actually identified and selected passages and ideas which are distinctly clear and nearly identical, creating a harmonious foundation and spiritual unity. She demonstrates that the core values and guiding principles of a `spiritual life' are fundamentally the same for humanity. Her book is truly a jewel, a unique contribution to the growing number of books on this fascinating subject. However, her book stands out as a resource and compendium ... proving there can be harmony and peace in the world, if people of the world would practice what they purport to believe.<br /><br />I was first impressed with the elegant simplicity of the cover ... the title \\"one heart' with an acorn between the two words. An acorn is an ideal symbol for the contents of the book, every word and passage within the book is a spiritual seed for growth within a person's life, that is, if they choose to practice the spiritual wisdom they learned. There is nothing trite or trivial in how Ms Kuchler treats this subject. Each chapter begins with the words \\"from a heart of ...\\" and each chapter covers a topic with  titles, \\"compassion\\", \\"acceptance', \\"humility\\", \\"integrity\\", \\"faith\\", `wisdom\\", \\"discipline\\", and \\"surrender\\". Each chapter has a brief introduction written by Andrew Harvey which illustrates through his life example some of the contents. One true story he tells occurred in India when he was despondent and depressed, sitting on the steps of a Hindu temple.  Without uttering a word, the caretaker of the temple placed before him a cup of tea and some food. This simple act of kindness from such a poor man touched Andrew Harvey's soul to the core, because he, a Westerner, a stranger, was shown succor and nurturng during his time of need.<br /><br />Each chapter is further subdivided into six to ten topics or themes, which then have supporting passages from either Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Confucianism, Hinduism, Buddhism, or Taoism, or an American Indian or African traditonal proverb. It is amazing how despite different underlying cultures and dogmatic practices from which the religions arose, the core values and principles that demonstrate spiritual practice or behavior is the same. The reader can open the book to any chapter or any page and find a passage or quotation that is meaningful and helpful ... to open one's heart and create a sense of peace and contentment. This book is most highly recommended for anyone who is interested in the world's religions and the subject of spiritual harmony.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)g his time of need.<br /><br />Each chapter is further subdivided into six to ten topics or themes, which then have supporting passages from either Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Confucianism, Hinduism, Buddhism, or Taoism, or an American Indian or African traditonal proverb. It is amazing how despite different underlying cultures and dogmatic practices from which the religions arose, the core values and principles that demonstrate spiritual practice or behavior is the same. The reader can open the book to any chapter or any page and find a passage or quotation that is meaningful and helpful ... to open one's heart and create a sense of peace and contentment. This book is most highly recommended for anyone who is interested in the world's religions and the subject of spiritual harmony.<br /><br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-11-24
US	48282789	R2L11C8EITIHBS	0345434811	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Life-like Conclusion to the Civil War	Jeff Shaara follows in his father's footsteps ... big shoes to fill indeed! He does a highly admirable job of researching and writing about the heroes, both North and South, who fought during the last two years of the Civil War. This book provides the reader a ring-side seat to key battles and positions, as each side fights to their last full measure of strength. The reader is provided personal information about the lives of the major players: General Robert E. Lee, General Ulysses S. Grant, and Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. We get inside the hearts and minds of these soldiers and although fiction it rings true to life. Historical fiction is a marvelous method to learn about  detailed and important battles which became turning points in this most fundamental war in the history of the United States.<br /><br />Most impressive descriptions are provided as General Robert E. Lee struggles in his heart and soul to send his valorous troops against the much better equipped Northern soldiers. We learn how strategy and insight gave the South advantages over technology and numbers, in the beginning. We learn that after Gen. Ulysses S. Grant was given command of the North, the tides turned ... and the reasons why. Maps are provided which give proper visualization to the word descriptions of strategic locations and key battles. Divided into four parts, the prolog to each section uses the words of President Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg address very effectively. Each section includes descriptions of a wide range of events, thorough analysis, and human emotions for the years of the war and post war events that it covers.<br /><br />The book goes beyond the war to include descriptons of when President Lincoln is shot. It concludes with an afterward that gives a wonderful summary of the post-war lives of major participants both Blue and the Gray. Reading this book was truly an eye-opening experience, filled with illuminating moments and unforgettable real people. It leaves the reader hungry to read more about the subject It compelled me to buy more books by this author - for example, \\"Gone for Soldiers\\" (the Mexican War) and \\"Rise to Rebellion\\" (the American Revolutionary War). Erika Borsos (erikab93)hungry to read more about the subject It compelled me to buy more books by this author - for example, \\"Gone for Soldiers\\" (the Mexican War) and \\"Rise to Rebellion\\" (the American Revolutionary War). Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-11-06
US	48282789	R22XW86A46PJTT	014044243X	847931222	Selected Short Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Unequalled World-Class Short Story Writer	Never having taken a world literature class, I discovered Guy De Maupassant many years ago on my own ... to my utter delight! I love his insights into human behavior, his writing technique of emphasizing some human conditon, dilemma, or foible, his ability to contrast the behavior of the wealthy respectable class against the more common people, his humor, and his creative writing style. The reader learns about the lives of people during the 19th century, their cares, concerns, their vices and passions ... and their secrets, the subjects are as varied as life itself!<br /><br />This volume of 30 short stories is an extremely fine selection of his works. I was familiar with three of the stories, \\"The Jewels\\", \\"The Piece of String\\" and the most well known titled \\"Boule De Suif\\" (translated as \\"Ball of Fat\\"). In this famous story, the prostitute of the region of Rouen is traveling with upper class companions in a coach as each traveler assesses the other one, making judgements as human beings often do. Eventually the upper class passengers are hungry, as they eye Boule De Suif opening her basket filled with fried chicken and other delicious foods. Boule De Souif takes compassion on her fellow passengers by offering them some of her food, to their embarrassment and pleasure, assuaging their hunger pangs. We learn a little about the character and background of the passengers, as the author builds his plot ... The passengers became more chummy, a most unusual situation that would not occur in normal everyday life between such different classes. The coach stopped for a rest at an inn. Prussians occupied the town and were staying at the same inn. As circumstances developed, the Prussian officer wanted to speak with Boule De Suif (Madame Elisabeth Rousset) ... she refused, recognizing at once the reason for his summons. The passengers on the coach sensed the tension and attempted pursuading Ms Rousset to join the officer ... they feared bad consequences for themselves if she did not cooperate, despite their disgust toward that sort of activity. They prevalied, Ms Rousset succumbed. The story ended on a sad note ... after \\"the event\\", the snobby behavior of the passengers toward Ms Rousset was evident as they reached their destination. They forgot her kindess in sharing her food, her resistance to the advances of the officer (she had pride in resisting the enemy) ... the passengers looked to their own selfish concerns and had no compassion for the sacrifice made by \\"Boule De Suif\\" on their behalf. This story exemplifies one of the main reasons the stories of Guy De Maupassant are so popular, in addition to his creative techniques and writing expertise, he contrasts certain extremes of human behavior to make a very strong point which emphasizes the human condition most accurately. These stories will delight a wide-range of readers. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)did not cooperate, despite their disgust toward that sort of activity. They prevalied, Ms Rousset succumbed. The story ended on a sad note ... after \\"the event\\", the snobby behavior of the passengers toward Ms Rousset was evident as they reached their destination. They forgot her kindess in sharing her food, her resistance to the advances of the officer (she had pride in resisting the enemy) ... the passengers looked to their own selfish concerns and had no compassion for the sacrifice made by \\"Boule De Suif\\" on their behalf. This story exemplifies one of the main reasons the stories of Guy De Maupassant are so popular, in addition to his creative techniques and writing expertise, he contrasts certain extremes of human behavior to make a very strong point which emphasizes the human condition most accurately. These stories will delight a wide-range of readers. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-11-02
US	48282789	RMTEZCQRT6A1Y	1569753601	532569602	The Lost Sutras of Jesus: Unlocking the Ancient Wisdom of the Xian Monks	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Rich Spiritual Blend of Christian, Tao &  Confucian Thoughts	Fascinating religious scrolls were discovered in caves in Xian, China at the turn of the century. They were disseminated to museums in France, Britain (UK) and into private collections and not translated for many years. The political upheavals in China left the remaining texts safe ... until 1998 when the monastery where they were stored was discovered. This small volume is a gem that includes translations of the scrolls, although high-priced for only 138 pages, the information contained within is well worth reading. Part I describes the historical background of how Christian monks from Persia in 635 C.E. traveled 3,000 miles over the Silk Road to China. They were honored by the enlightened Emperor Taizong of the Tang Dynasty, who recognized the wisdom of the Christian teachings which he called \\"The Luminous Religion\\". He had the monks write down their teaching and included it in the Imperial library that contained 200,000 volumes of scrolls, one of the most substantial places of knowledge in the world. Close to a 1,000 years later the Chinese found the scrolls and built a monument, which at the top had a cross rising from the center of a lotus blossum. On the stele was carved the teachings of Christianity, Taoism, and Confucianism. In the early 1900s, a Taoist priest/monk discovered the caves where the original manuscripts were laid ... he devoted his life to preserving the caves and their contents.<br /><br />Amazingly it was a Hungarian Jew, Sir Aurel Stein, who grew up in Britain, obtained his Ph.D. at age 21, was raised as a Christian, who brought these texts to the world's attention. Later he received a knighthood and honorary degrees from Oxford and Cambridge. A French archeologist, Paul Pelliot, also deserves credit for his outstanding translations of the numerous scrolls that he took back to the Bilbiotheque Nationale in France and for which he received honors later in life. The book does indeed fall short in providing enough of the translated scrolls themselves, there are only just over 40 pages devoted to this alone, but the overall research and information contained within had my undivided and full attention. This is a most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)elves, there are only just over 40 pages devoted to this alone, but the overall research and information contained within had my undivided and full attention. This is a most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-15
US	48282789	R33TJ8VVS58PHQ	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Colorful Mythical Magical Family Tapestry  & History	My decision to read this book was based on its \\"Nobel Prize\\" winning status and a desire to expand my knowledge of world literature. I was not disappointed. The fluid writing style of the author seems a bit tricky at first, but as the story unfolds, one recognizes a natural cadence and rhythm which is like the flow of a river through time. Perhaps, the translation from Spanish into English omits some of the cultural milieu, however, the more one reads the more admiration one has for the writing skill and creativity of the author. This story is a fascinating account of the Buendia family who helped found the town of Macondo, somewhere out in the jungle of South America. This family dynasty includes the founding patriarch Jose Arcadio Buendia and thematriarch, Ursula, as well as more modern adventurers, revolutionaries, rebels, and eccentrics both male and female, who express their physical and spiritual natures as they build complex lives and produce the future generations. The family rises to a position of prominence in the region, each generation is tied to the previous one through legends and stories, making the ancestors seem mythical and magical. The extraordinairy cast of characters also includes vagabond gypies who come from the other side of the ocean, describing another world, even Macedonia is mentioned. They bear gifts, such as magnets, and one charismatic figure, Melquiades, carries with him experimental chemicals and alchemy books. He gives demonstrations of his talents. He captures the imagination of Jose Arcadio Buendia, the family patriarch who becomes an amature scientist. In an unusual creative twist, the book of secrets also becomes a book of knowledge, a book foretelling the future.  In a symbolic manner it provides cohesion to the book. At the end, reading about the author's life, one learns how he was influenced by his grandmother who was a master storyteller. She wove fact, fiction and superstition into a magical mythical realm that felt very real to the author when he was a child. This story telling spirit became the impetus, the driving force to write this historical family chronicle. It is filled with love, humor, sadness, rebellion, naivite, adventure, glory, revolution, entrepenurial success, implusive acts with unexpected consequences and the magnetic appeal of bigger than life characters, both men and women. There is a free verse poetic flow to the writing which is totally captivating and infectious. Most highly recommended reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)eal to the author when he was a child. This story telling spirit became the impetus, the driving force to write this historical family chronicle. It is filled with love, humor, sadness, rebellion, naivite, adventure, glory, revolution, entrepenurial success, implusive acts with unexpected consequences and the magnetic appeal of bigger than life characters, both men and women. There is a free verse poetic flow to the writing which is totally captivating and infectious. Most highly recommended reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-14
US	48282789	R859OU2IVD0M9	189399600X	938828124	Perched on Nothing's Branch	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Deeply Existential,  Soulful,  Heartfelt Poems	Jozsef Attila (Hungarian way, patronym last name is first) is one of Hungary's most beloved and tragic poets. I first heard of him having lived on a street with his name as a child. As an adult, I obtained poetry books in Hungarian in the 1970s and was impressed with his soulful expressions of tragic reality, deep emotions and natural imagery. The English translations in this volume of 40 poems are excellent. With a few liberties, the author manages to refine English and capture the nuances of meaning to match Hungarian phrases ...<br /><br />To better understand a poet, one must learn a litte of his history. His mother raised him in poverty, for a brief time he was sent to a village while she took in wash to make ends meet. Nevertheless, he managed to enter the University but he did not obtain his degree due to difficulties with a professor. Later, he traveled to Vienna and Paris in the mid-1920s and instead  obtained a cosmopolitan education abroad where he was exposed to various political systems. As often happens to those born in poverty, he placed his hope in socialism and the Communist Party, but was later expelled ... not unusual for idealists and free thinkers.<br /><br />This volume of 40 poems includes one of his most famous poems of natural imagery, \\"Harmatocska\\". The poet notices the dew in the early morning, when it is still dark, as it lays on a raspberry branch, shimmering, resembling greasy paper. As the poet works in the fields, he sees the mist rise from the mountains and hears the humming in the fields or perhaps he himself is humming. At nightfall, he recognizes the heavens and gazes at the stars ... feeling good, possibly for being one with nature or having achieved his work in the splendor of nature. This poem has been set to music by the Sebo Ensemble (CD available at amazon.com) and has even had a dance to it choreographed by an Hungarian tradiitonal master dance instructor. The dance is taught in the USA at international folk dance camps. This poetry book is most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)is poetry book is most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-14
US	48282789	ROS7FMSUYC1UB	0020897715	155621551	9 1/2 Mystics: The Kabbala Today	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Personal Journey, Historical/Social Research on Kabbala	Rabbi Herbert Weiner writes in an engaging manner about a personal journey, almost like a travelogue, into the historical, social and spiritual concepts underlying Kabbalistic thought. What I love most about the book is how he intersperses a great deal of historical knowledge in each chapter which makes the ideas come alive. The beauty of the writing is how the sparks of knowledge burn even into these modern times. They can light a fire in today's world. A sound spiritual base is a prerequiste to the building of a meaningful life in a most confusing and chaotic world. The historical basis of the ideas are presented along with the most current expressions of this practice, 1969 at the time it, although the book was updated in 1992.<br /><br />Rabbi Weiner visits synogogues in New York and Israel. The Rabbi visited one of the last living legends of Kabbalistic thinking, an old scholar, S. Setzer, whose specialty was the Zohar. Setzer published articles in a newsletter of old world beliefs and practices from an apartment in New York. The reader is introduced to the unique historical roots and perspectives of the Zohar and its practice in the old world. Proper terminology is used within the spiritual practice to introduce those unfamiliar with the meaning. Rabbi Weiner takes a physical and spiritual journey to Israel where he speaks to eminent authors or their relatives in this field of study. He discusses the perspectives of Martin Buber, Gershom Scholem, and the Bratzlaver and Lubavitcher movements. He shares with us the modern use of the Kabbala in spiritural nonsecular circles that are seeking \\"self-knowledge\\". Overall this book brings the subject of the Kabbala to a wider audience. It shows how the concepts and spiritual practices of the past can bring meaning to life and perhaps, personal peace and understanding, to individuals living in a chaotic and confusing world. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-09
US	48282789	R3SQH7IOVGWLKH	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Chilling Look at Terrorism, Its Aftermath: Our Future WWIII	This is the second book written by Tom Clancy which establishes him as a powerful storyteller, a global tactician of power politics and of military technology. Did he have a crystal ball with which to read the future? It seems he zoned in on the possible effects of Muslim terrorism *way* before the \\"real world\\" woke up to the truth ...<br /><br />An Ajzerbaijani Muslim student received special treatment at the Moscow University for his loyalty due to his good standing in the Communist Party. After 15 years in the Party, he attained the respect of his comrades, a good salary, an automobile and an above average position in his chosen field of study ... but beneath the suface ... he was seathing with anger ... plotting revenge on the very people who provided him the opportunities for success. He blew up the largest oil producing field in the Soviet Union ... crippling the Soviet economy. The Politburo met to deal with the consequences - the possible collapse of the Soviet Union. US satellite intelligence picked up the seismic event and discovered the oil field was destroyed. Another noteworthy discovery was: a shortage of car and truck batteries. At the same time, the Soviets were engaging in Peace Talks in Vienna, Austria. The Foreign Minister gave a press conference where he spoke of \\"deeds not words\\" as he described the Soviet's committment to reduce and destroy nuclear weapons. This included a deadline of three years and site verification. Plus the Soviets<br /><br />proposed all signatories, USA, France, China, and the UK join in the negotiations. The \\"maskirovka 1\\" by the KGB had begun (masquerade 1). Another suspicious intelligence discovery made by the USA was four colonels in the Soviet Army were executed for falsifying \\"readiness\\" reports. Not long afterwards, an unusual bombing incident occcured in the Kremlin, exactly before the Politburo was to meet. Innocent children died ... the incident was attributed to terrorists, in an odd twist of fate a CNN cameraman caught the explosion on film, right when it happened. Also, US intelligence gathered information showing the Soviet submarines were maneuvering ... allegedly practicing tactics. The combined findings of these intelligence reports could lead to no other conclusion but the invevitable: the Soviet Union was planning World War III. The reasons were self-evident ... they faced economic disaster by losing their fundamental source of energy, their largest oil field.<br /><br />In this novel, Clancy keeps the reader spell-bound, hanging on every word, wanting to know what happens next. There are three major battlefields: on land in Germany, in submarines under the ocean near Norway, and in the air in Iceland, which becomes the homebase of the Soviet Airforce. It is an exciting experience reading about the events and outcomes of the different battlefields in a fictional World War III. The scenarios are highly probable. The characters are realistic and very human. Most intriguing is the weatherman, a survivor of the battle for the US airfield in Keflavik, who becomes a guerrila soldier in the mountains of the region, providing very significant information via a radio on untraceable frequencies to intelligence operatives based in Scotlan. This is the quintessential \\"best\\" of Tom Clancy's novels. It is a most highly recommended contemporary novel. Erika Borsos (erikab93)an caught the explosion on film, right when it happened. Also, US intelligence gathered information showing the Soviet submarines were maneuvering ... allegedly practicing tactics. The combined findings of these intelligence reports could lead to no other conclusion but the invevitable: the Soviet Union was planning World War III. The reasons were self-evident ... they faced economic disaster by losing their fundamental source of energy, their largest oil field.<br /><br />In this novel, Clancy keeps the reader spell-bound, hanging on every word, wanting to know what happens next. There are three major battlefields: on land in Germany, in submarines under the ocean near Norway, and in the air in Iceland, which becomes the homebase of the Soviet Airforce. It is an exciting experience reading about the events and outcomes of the different battlefields in a fictional World War III. The scenarios are highly probable. The characters are realistic and very human. Most intriguing is the weatherman, a survivor of the battle for the US airfield in Keflavik, who becomes a guerrila soldier in the mountains of the region, providing very significant information via a radio on untraceable frequencies to intelligence operatives based in Scotlan. This is the quintessential \\"best\\" of Tom Clancy's novels. It is a most highly recommended contemporary novel. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-05
US	48282789	RVSAD5RRT4YZY	0425191184	17508097	Red Rabbit (Tom Clancy)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Fascinating Fictional Account  Incorporating An Historical Event	Despite the predictability of the ending rather early in the novel, the book is filled with believable episodes of how the KGB operates. The reader is given detailed descriptions of how British and US intelligence agencies cooperate in highly secret operations, as they are forced to take action/ intervene in international affairs that have mind-boggling possible outcomes. This is a suspenseful reading experience filled with espionage,  daring plots, and engaging characters. Tom Clancy writes novels on topics of global importance from a historical perspective, incorporating reality and ficton, spinning tales filled with intrigue, conflict, and tactics ... a thoroughly enjoyable nonstop reading experience.<br /><br />This book begins in the UK, as Jack Ryan, a US CIA operative, is sent to London to hone his analytical abilities in learning to think like the enemy (KGB). His job is to read directives, communications and bulletins secretly obtained, and to take a leap to the next level, make connections to politics and world events, essentially, predict the move of the enemy. In Moscow, an American couple has relocated to work for the US Ambassador. Ed Foley was given the job of \\"Press Attache\\" to the Ambassador which entails filtering the information given to newspaper reporters. In reality, he is the Chief CIA agent, \\"Chief of Station\\" in Moscow, while his wife, Mary Pat, creates a persona of the \\"dizzy blonde\\" American wife but is in reality an agent. Meanwhile, Yuri Andropov, head of the KGB, has discovered Pope John Paul II is planning to resign, step down from his position as the head of the Catholic Church, and return to Poland, to support his fellow Polish countrymen in their quest to unyoke from the Soviet Union. Andropov plots to assassinate the Pope, via a Bulgarian agent who will hire a Turkish assassin. Unbeknownst to them, Major Zaitev, who works for the KGB Directorate in Moscow, has developed a conscience regarding the planned murder of the innocent Pope. He discovers the plans, as he sends encrypted messages to the Bulgarian and Italian Soviet secret agents who will carry out the deed. He contacts the CIA Operative in Moscow about these plans in exchange for escape to freedom for himself and his family ....<br /><br />Reading this book is a an exhilarating experience especially discovering the creative method by which Zaitev communicates with the CIA agents in Moscow to arrange freedom for himself, his unsuspecting wife and child. The technique of their disappearance, while on vacation in Budapest, is ingenious and worth the read. The descriptions of the contrasting lifestyles and the methods of the espionage agencies of the UK, USA, and Soviet Union is very well presented. In my opinion, this is another brilliant dramatic novel written by one of the best world espionage writers living today. Erika Borsos (erikab93). He discovers the plans, as he sends encrypted messages to the Bulgarian and Italian Soviet secret agents who will carry out the deed. He contacts the CIA Operative in Moscow about these plans in exchange for escape to freedom for himself and his family ....<br /><br />Reading this book is a an exhilarating experience especially discovering the creative method by which Zaitev communicates with the CIA agents in Moscow to arrange freedom for himself, his unsuspecting wife and child. The technique of their disappearance, while on vacation in Budapest, is ingenious and worth the read. The descriptions of the contrasting lifestyles and the methods of the espionage agencies of the UK, USA, and Soviet Union is very well presented. In my opinion, this is another brilliant dramatic novel written by one of the best world espionage writers living today. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-10-04
US	48282789	R3GWKLW9LHEFGQ	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Eyewitness Accounts of the Battle that Changed America	This Pulitzer Prize winning novel retells the Battle of Gettysburg (Pennsylvania) from the viewpoints of the major participants, both North and South. It falls into the category of historical fiction and is based on well researched facts, to be precise *seven* years of research and writing revisions (as stated on the jacket cover). It depicts actual events with the imagination of the author filling in the feelings and thoughts of General Robert E. Lee, Colonel Chamberlain, Buford, Longstreet, Ewell, Pickett, Armistead, during key positions and outcomes of this most important battle during the American Civil War. Highly acclaimed by both, Gen. H. Norman Schwartzkopf and film maker Ken Burns, this book deserves a wider reading audience.<br /><br />Similar to \\"All Quiet on the Western Front\\" and \\"Red Badge of Courage\\", the reader is given a first hand account of what it is like to have lived through this major historical turning point of the war. What otherwise would be dry, cold hard facts becomes a living event, felt and experienced in all of its glory, gory details, and sadness. Human emotions, hope, longing, courage, deprivation, fatigue, love, loyalty, regrets and faith in God are clearly shown. Anyone who wants to learn more about the Civil War but was hesitant should read this book. It makes history come alive. I was so capitvated, I bought the prequel and sequel, written by the author's son, Jeff Shaara, who continued the writing tradition started by his late father. One readily appreciates how fragile a gift is freedom and democracy, not to be taken for granted. The United States as a nation underwent one of the most tragic events in its history ... to maintain unity and integrity ... this should never be forgotten.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab3)	2004-09-15
US	48282789	R140I32AKEQ1XC	0425197409	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Stalk, Ambush, In for the Kill	Ever since the #1 best seller &#34;Hunt for Red October&#34;, Tom Clancy has been a favorite novelist. He again proves why he is king among authors on the topics of world events, espionage and political intrigues. In this book, the author weaves a highly believable plot involving a business deal between Columbian drug lords and Islamic terrorists. While these two dreaded networks are planning their operations, a secret organization &#34;the Campus&#34;, disguised as a brokerage firm dealing with stocks, bonds, and international currencies, called &#34;Hendley Associates&#34;, is monitoring money transactions and internet communciations, trying to detect world terrorist plots and payoffs. The Campus is a &#34;black operation&#34; group, not &#34;officially&#34; recognized by any U.S. government agency but nevertheless, is allowed to function to carry out its fight against terrorism ...<br /><br />Leaders of &#34;the Campus&#34; have targeted a set of twins who fit their criteria to be secret assassins. Dominic and Brian Carruso each have shown courage, independent thinking, and quick decisive action, as well as the ability to kill, under sanctioned controlled conditions. &#34;The Campus&#34; is actively recruiting these young men to fulfill their mission. The twins have some moral/ethical reservations about participating. When the first &#34;hit&#34; on the USA is accomplished by the Islamic terrorists, where many innocent US citizens, men, women, and children die- they are no longer reluctant to join.<br /><br />It turns out, Jack Ryan, J.r, the son of a former president, has applied for a position at &#34;Hendley Associates&#34;, without knowing about the recruitment of his cousins. When interviewed he reveals, in veiled terms, his suspicions of the true nature of the organization. After Jack is hired, he develops the ability to recognize suspicious email messages that connect with money transactions. Eventually he zeros in on clandestine terrorist movements. This book is highly worth reading to learn how Tom Clancy cleverly uses modern medical knowledge to achieve the impossible ... murders undetectable even by the best pathologists. The high drama and action in this novel takes the reader to exciting European cities for clandestine meetings and assassinations. To play on the words used by the author, this book is all about kicking the tiger in the ass, while learning to control its bite. Highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)book is highly worth reading to learn how Tom Clancy cleverly uses modern medical knowledge to achieve the impossible ... murders undetectable even by the best pathologists. The high drama and action in this novel takes the reader to exciting European cities for clandestine meetings and assassinations. To play on the words used by the author, this book is all about kicking the tiger in the ass, while learning to control its bite. Highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-08-31
US	48282789	R3LZXD3S2FLZGW	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Secret Societies, Occult Religious Beliefs, New Theories	Picknett and Clive make bold assertions about \\"secret\\" revelations they researched regarding religion and the 'occult' knowledge and practices of the Knights Templar, Freemasons, and Cathars. These groups are presumed to have based their beliefs and religious practices to the time of Solomon and the ancient religion of Egypt, Osiris and Isis. While it is not a scholarly work in the strict scientific sense of the word, these authors do a fine job of connecting symbols, paintings, sculpture, and ancient church architecture to religious practices that do not conform to what was the common practice at the time. This reader is convinced they have revealed some of the \\"mysteries\\" upon which the secret societies and groups of the past based their esoteric knowledge. They include a fascinating mix of myths, legends, and \\"Indiana Jones\\" type archeological research associated with religion, which captures the reader's attention and keeps it transfixed as a complex maze of detailed revelations are brought forth for the reader's examination.<br /><br />Some of the most complex connections made in the book relate to the information about why John the Baptist is held in high regard by the Knights Templar and Priory of Sion. In fact, the Grand Masters are often refered to as \\"John\\". Another interesting fact is that in the south of France, there are many \\"Black Madonna\\" sites where a church is often built to honor the Mary Magdalene. The authors connect the \\"Black Madonna\\" cults to the goddess worship of Isis which was the predominant religion of the area before Christianity. They also connect the concepts of fertility and goddess worship to secret practices within some of the societies. There were two levels of membership in the societies, the outward stated one, and an inner \\"secret\\" level, where only those who were initiated could understand and practice certain sexual rites. There are assertions that Jesus and Mary Magdelene may have been married or,if not married, were participants in some secret rituals of this nature. There are references to gnostic writings which intimate a very different level to their relationship than is depicted in the New Testament version. The role of women as Apostles in the New Testament has been diluted. based on the prevalent Jewish dominant cultural view at the time. The religious questions the authors raise and possible connections they make do point to some fallacies in current religious practice, although there is no scientific proof to the relationship assertions. The findings of the Nag Hammadi scrolls in 1945, have been now revealed to the public. They shed a new light on the religious outlook of different groups of people who were living during the time of Jesus ministry, both before and after the crucifixion and resurrection. His life and teaching is given new meaning ... While this reader can not accept at face value the \\"true identity of Christ\\" as presented by the authors, indeed, there is room for more research. The New Testament books as carefully selected and edited versions of books that were copied and recopied from the past, do not reveal the full measure of Jesus life and teachings either. This was a fascinating book which read partly like a mystery which explained myths and legends, partly like a sociological research paper, and partly like an archeological exploration of religious symbolism and practice. Since it mixes so many unlikely topics, the reader needs to keep an open mind balanced with some healthy skepticism. Highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)pants in some secret rituals of this nature. There are references to gnostic writings which intimate a very different level to their relationship than is depicted in the New Testament version. The role of women as Apostles in the New Testament has been diluted. based on the prevalent Jewish dominant cultural view at the time. The religious questions the authors raise and possible connections they make do point to some fallacies in current religious practice, although there is no scientific proof to the relationship assertions. The findings of the Nag Hammadi scrolls in 1945, have been now revealed to the public. They shed a new light on the religious outlook of different groups of people who were living during the time of Jesus ministry, both before and after the crucifixion and resurrection. His life and teaching is given new meaning ... While this reader can not accept at face value the \\"true identity of Christ\\" as presented by the authors, indeed, there is room for more research. The New Testament books as carefully selected and edited versions of books that were copied and recopied from the past, do not reveal the full measure of Jesus life and teachings either. This was a fascinating book which read partly like a mystery which explained myths and legends, partly like a sociological research paper, and partly like an archeological exploration of religious symbolism and practice. Since it mixes so many unlikely topics, the reader needs to keep an open mind balanced with some healthy skepticism. Highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-08-23
US	48282789	RG5FVJQGHDDMM	0802116515	6271903	Lovers for a Day	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Myriad Facets to the Relationship Called "Love"	Ivan Klima writes stories with crystal clarity, mini-vignettes of people's lives. Each story is unique, filled with despair,<br />amusement, boredom, excitement, desperation, jealousy, unknown chance encounters, the fire of love or its opposite is explored. Intense desire, clandestine meetings, routine relations and habits, succombing to temptation after nearly a lifetime of committment ... loyalty/betrayal ... it is all here.<br />Some of the stories are very deep and tragic, others are filled with humor and surprise endings. All the stories are creatively well crafted.<br /><br />\\"Conjugal Relations\\" is one favorite. Two people, a man and woman are conversing. One accuses the other of indifference, by taking words or lack of attention out of context. It leads to an argument as the \\"accused\\" partner is forced to defend himself. Both the accuser and defender recognize the absurdity of the situation but each has to participate to resolve the tension and dilemma. The situation is hilarous as it is so common. Another entertaining story is one where two lovers are speaking on the telephone. The man, living in Australia, wants to make the liason more serious ... the woman makes excuses, as she deals with her small child who is whining in the background. She feigns desire for him, all the time rebuffing him with numerous reasons,obligations to her husband/child, time away from her household, putting his successful career at risk. He carefullly  knocks down each excuse to be near her. The duplicity of the female is cleverly revealed in the conversation, the man is equally charming as he calls her bluff with each deft maneuver  to continue as lovers. A most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-08-18
US	48282789	R59NPY8OLXH00	0375759778	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Wacky Lives in Exotic Budapest after Communism	For a first novel, Arthur Phillips did a fantastic job of capturing the wacky chaotic energy of the lives of several ex-patriate Americans who lived in Budapest, shortly after the demise of Communism. In this book, opportunity abounds to achieve wealth and fame possibly *both* for risk-takers, people who could read the signs of the times and take decisive action. Decisions plus the right connections (investors, government approval) along with some dumb luck equals success during the chaotic transition from socialism to capitalism. For the characters who lack direction, focus, and decisiveness, they languish within the primordial energy soup of their existence. The motions of their lives take on a hum drum existence, they could be living in any large city anywhere in the world.<br /><br />This is a highly complex book that has unusual depths of meaning, easy to miss when reading it on a superficial level. There are stories within stories, which makes this novel highly appealing on the creative and psychological levels. Many previous reviewers missed the hidden nuances and meaning which the author carefully disguised. Indeed, the author has captured much of the Hungarian culture and even the personality of the nation while in transition, out of Communism into capitalism.  Rather than sunlight shining through a glass window, reavealing itself as white light ... this book is more like sunlight captured within a a prism and dissolving into a rainbow of colors.<br /><br />The title of the book is misleading but comprehensible when read \\"tongue-in-cheek\\". The author's writing technique is highly effective ... it is a method which reveals the overall mood in Hungary: \\"it is better somewhere else,\\"  \\"the grass is greener on the other side\\". There is more opportunity, more money, a better life, somewhere else and oddly enough, this feeling still exists in Hungary even today. John Price is one of the the main characters. He becomes a famous and successful writer for a newspaper, ostensibly run by an Australian editor, but who is really an American faking the accent. Charles (Karoly) Gabor is the American born son of Hungarian immigrants who achieves his goal, to become a large shareholder in a Hungarian business. The business has a long history of success since it had survived many regimes and political changes in Hungary. Although, after  Communism, it became run-down due to mismanagement. Charles successfully negotiated to become a business partner with Imre Horvath, the sole surviving heir of this historical publishing house. Imre had fled to Vienna where he created another successful publishing business based on the old Hungarian books published by the original company. However, the price of success was too high. There is a twist to the ending of this novel which is totally unexpected. A great tragedy befell Imre but luckily he survived, with the help of his loyal secretary Krisztina Toldy.<br /><br />Another eccentric character is, Nadja, an aging jazz singer, who has lived a very exciting life, travelled throughout the world, having been married several times, and had various lovers from all walks of life but is there some dark secret she is hiding? John Price befriends her at the jazz club where she peforms. He enjoys her zest, zeal and energy for life. John came to Budapest to mend fences with his brother Scott. Scott teaches English to Hungarians in an English language school. Scott becomes romantically involved with Maria, one of his Hungarian students. While she has dreams of escaping to the West with him; he has the need to be as far away from his family, especially his brother John, as possible. To Maria's chagrin, instead of going West, they move farther East ... to Transylvania. Yet, despite their differences, they carry on a torrid affair which leads to marriage. In the meantime, John is burning a torch for Emily the administrative assistant to the American Ambassador to Hungary. Emily has conservative values which eventually dampens his ardor though John never quite gets over desiring Emily. During one of his weekend excursions to a local nightclub, John meets Nicky, a successful modern artist, who shaves her head. She is one of the wackiest but most honest characters in the book. Surprisingly, Emily's conservative upbringing melts away as she falls into an unpredictable lifestyle ...<br /><br />One of the hallmarks of great writing is being surprised by the ending of a book. This book has such an ending. This author possesses two major writing strengths, the first is character development and the second is unexpected twists or curves in the plot. These are two highly commendable attributes for a new author. This book is highly recommended for people who like complex stories with unexpected surprise endings. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ally dampens his ardor though John never quite gets over desiring Emily. During one of his weekend excursions to a local nightclub, John meets Nicky, a successful modern artist, who shaves her head. She is one of the wackiest but most honest characters in the book. Surprisingly, Emily's conservative upbringing melts away as she falls into an unpredictable lifestyle ...<br /><br />One of the hallmarks of great writing is being surprised by the ending of a book. This book has such an ending. This author possesses two major writing strengths, the first is character development and the second is unexpected twists or curves in the plot. These are two highly commendable attributes for a new author. This book is highly recommended for people who like complex stories with unexpected surprise endings. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-08-09
US	48282789	R1LXUK67WVIDPR	076790284X	98620316	Bella Tuscany: The Sweet Life in Italy	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Lovely Dreamscapes into the Heart of Italy	Who has not dreamt of escaping to a colorful villa in Europe, preferably Provence (France), Tuscany in Italy or some obscure hillside in Central Europe? Frances Mays did just that! She describes the delicious details of this idyllic existence in this precious and charming book.Her sensitive, seductive descriptions are irresisible reading.<br /><br />The reader is introduced to the sights, sounds, and smells of this magnificent dreamy region of the world. The book is interspersed with Italian phrases, increasing the allure of her exotic choice for a second home, Tuscany, Italy. All the senses of the reader are aroused into full alert by the aroma of freshly baked bread, the smell of newly turned earth awaiting seeds for the vegetable garden, and the enticement of early morning capuccino ...One can just hear the Italian accent in the greeting, \\"Buon giorno, una bella giornata\\" (\\"Good morning, a beautiful day\\")!<br /><br />Along with the author, the reader participates in selecting flowers for a garden path and making a trip to the wine region for \\"sfuso\\" (house wine) ... bought from local vintners from their own local brew. We take side trips to Venice, and a gondola ride down the main canal, reminiscing of the past. We take a trip to the famous Capella Palatina, a former residence of kings. It has Arabic and Byzantine architechtural influences from many hundreds of years historical importance ... We go to Sicily and taste the local seafood at a restaurant recommended by the hotel clerk, who assures us, this the restaurant the locals choose for the \\"best seafood\\". Indeed, there is no disappointment, the appetizer is \\"futta di mare\\", a variety of fried fish and a spicy eggplant dish made with cinnamon and pine nuts. We are served stuffed squid and veal, rolled around with a layer of herbs and cheese. The day concludes with a visit to the market, where lamb, fish, shrimp, candied fruits and various cooking utensils as well as a large variety of food is sold.<br /><br />This book is richly detailed with the experience of creating a new life in a foreign country. The reader along with the author is learning many things ... building a garden with hearty plants that survive all year round, planting the proper vegetables by the right season, remodeling a home, and partaking of customs and religious feast days of the region. It has wonderful descriptions of side trips to local and distant places of historical interest and of physical beauty ...I have never read Frances Mays first book so have no basis of comparison. However, this book is clearly an artistic achievement similar to a painting on canvas. This author possesses the power of selecting the right words to create nostalgia and longing in the reader ... to experience *her* Tuscany. Erika Borsos (erikab93)This book is richly detailed with the experience of creating a new life in a foreign country. The reader along with the author is learning many things ... building a garden with hearty plants that survive all year round, planting the proper vegetables by the right season, remodeling a home, and partaking of customs and religious feast days of the region. It has wonderful descriptions of side trips to local and distant places of historical interest and of physical beauty ...I have never read Frances Mays first book so have no basis of comparison. However, this book is clearly an artistic achievement similar to a painting on canvas. This author possesses the power of selecting the right words to create nostalgia and longing in the reader ... to experience *her* Tuscany. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-08-09
US	48282789	R1VHRLRFBP4YT1	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Turn of the Century Triumphs and Tragedies	Erik Larson reveals how the power politics of the 1890s resulted in Chicago winning the coveted honor of sponsoring the Columbia Exposition, also known as the World's Fair ... and how it almost did not happen. The Windy City attracted people from all walks of life: the hard-working labor class, single women with newly minted stenographic skills, immigrants, and ambitious men, who had dreams of building a fortune in real estate and risky business ventures. Optimism reigned supreme. It seemed the sky was the limit ... amidst the stench of the Chicago Stockyards, the major slaughterhouse for farm animals in the mid-west and the rotting garbage in the streets. After Monsieur Alexandre Gustave Eiffil had built the tallest man-made structure in the world, the United States felt the sting of being 'looked down' by the 'old world'. The USA rose to the challenge, planning to create something on even a grander scale ... to show that the New World was capable of great achievements, too.<br />So began the competition between the major cities of New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C. and St. Louis ... for the privilege of hosting the Columbia Exposition, to be the next greatest World's Fair. The appeal of Chicago with its newly built skyscrapers and successful businesses had won out. The next phase in preparation for this world event, was selecting an architectural firm which would due justice to such an event. Famous New York and Boston firms competed against Chicago architects ... once again a Chicago firm aced the competition, Burnham and Root had won fame for building the Montauk, the first building ever to be labelled 'skyscraper'. After this, the need to design and build  magnificent and elegant structures and parks became their main drive. The biggest challenge was converting Jackson Park, on the Southside of Chicago, a dry, treeless prairieland of wilderness into a place of lush landscapes and beauty ...while meeting a strict budget and timeline.<br />During these glory days of planning and preparing for this major world event ... sinister evil lurked not too far away. Dr. H. H. Holmes an ambitious, conniving and charming physician had come to Chicago in the mid-1880s. He acquired propety and buildings through crooked means. He also charmed unsuspecting young ladies out of their fortunes. The majority of these young ladies suddenly disappeared ...with no one knowing their whereabouts or hearing from them ever again. Some left their belongings behind, others left their wealth to the physician. Police inquiries led to unanswered questions ... that is, until an insurance investigation about fraudulent claims for a life insurance policy taken out on a business associate of Dr. H. H. Holmes caused more intense searches into his activities. A private investigator for the insurance company unearthed mysterious events surrounding this apparently wealthy and upstanding citizen. The peculiar stench in his building was traced to a weird furnace with odd modifications. Heinous crimes were attributed to this psychopathic murderer. It shocked the nation. What's more he may well have been responsible for many moe deaths than could be proven, possibly one or two hundred young women, who disappeard in the anonymous city ... never heard from again, by relatives or friends.<br />This book is extraordinairy in that it reads like a best-seller murder mystery ... yet amazingly it is true. The author does a superb job of contrasting the optimism of the people of Chicago, as well as the nation, for creating the World's Columbian Exposition, the 1893 World's Fair against the the seedy, undersided, evil side of what happened in the city during the same time. The author researched his subject thoroughly which is evident throughout the book. Overall, it is a fascinating read. My only suggestion would be, to have included better descriptions of the various famous exhibits that made this World's Fair so important. He does a good job of describing the uniqueness ofthe Ferris Wheel and its concerns for safety and efficacy, as well as firsthand experiences and some newsworthy tales. This reader would have enjoyed reading more about what *other* new phenomenon were introduced to the world. Had more of this been included the book would have received a five star recommendation. Erika Borsos (erikab93)the Ferris Wheel and its concerns for safety and efficacy, as well as firsthand experiences and some newsworthy tales. This reader would have enjoyed reading more about what *other* new phenomenon were introduced to the world. Had more of this been included the book would have received a five star recommendation. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-30
US	48282789	R12KN8BQMJRY4S	0743234693	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Uncontrollable Power Arises from Scientific Achievement	In this nonfiction book, Greg Iles takes the current dependency of the world on computers to a whole new level. He adds some zen-like koans and religious underpinnings to one of the most astonishing and successful achievements of science written about in this book.The combined themes of scientific research and achievement, political intrigue, and moral/ethical conflicts come together in unexpected and unprecedented ways from the potential success of a special &quot;secret&quot; project which is sanctioned by the President.The book works itself through meandering mystrious discoveries and relationships and labyrinthine  pathways, as the reader is provided more clues to the nature of &quot;The Trinity Project&quot; and what happens to those who oppose it. This book is jam-packed with mystery, high-tech computer advancements, and the egotistical megalomania that accompanies the hunger for ever more power and control. It is begins with the personal conflicts which Dr. David Tennat experiences, as he seeks psychological counseling from Dr. Rachel Weiss, a eminent Jungian Analyst, working for the University of North Carolina. He appears to be suffering stress-related dreams and visions associated with his participation in the research ... but the symptoms *could* also be side-effects of having participated in an MRI scanning of his brain, as a &quot;guinea pig&quot; participant in the research. He shares with his psychologist the doubts he has about the labelled &quot;natural cause&quot; of death of his research colleague, Dr. Andrew Fielding. Dr. Fielding had predicted he may be permanently elimiinated because of discoveries he had made about &quot;The Trinity Project&quot;. As the two of them are drawn into learning more about Dr. Fielding's discovery ... things start to happen. Needless to say, this book is a non-stop reading experience.It is one fantastic and extraordinairy roller-coaster of a ride that comes to a very surprising and startling conclusion. It is most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ighly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-21
US	48282789	R25T5O6PCL4SY	1590301439	558887607	The Way of Chuang Tzu (Shambhala Library)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Deeply Spiritual  Ideas Expressed in Poetic Beauty	Thomas Merton, a Trappist monk, read and compared several different translations of the writings of Chuang Tzu over a five year period. He made notes and from them created a free verse style interpretation of various passages that he liked and were meaningful for him. From those notes this book was born. As a monk, he experienced various states of spiritual being, feeling, and thinking, that are unique to individuals who withdraw into a contemplative life. Every passage and chapter is packed with unique stories, parables, anecdotes which allow the reader to view life ... existence ... from different perspectives. Some passages reinforce already existing ideas. thoughts, and beliefs, others create new ways of &quot;seeing&quot;. The writing is poetic and very insightful. This book is an absolute pleasurable reading experience. Some examples below will provide a taste of the contents of this extraordinairy book.<br />Here is an example of this writing, &quot;When Knowledge Went North&quot;:<br />&quot;Knowledge wandered north<br />Looking for Tao, over the Dark Sea<br />And up the Invisible Mountain.<br />There on the mountain he met<br />Nondoing, the Speechless One&quot; ...<br />Another example, &quot;In My End is My Beginning&quot;:<br />&quot;But he who obeys Nature returns through Form and<br />Formless to the Living,<br />And in the Living<br />Joins the  unbegun Beginnning&quot; ...<br />If the reader enjoys deep thinking and feeling, contemplating life in all its myriad aspects then this book is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-16
US	48282789	R1D19N6F6J24FW	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	5	10	12	N	N	High Tech Science, Politics, Gov't Agencies, & Murder	Dan Brown has managed to dazzle readers world-wide with his ability to weave fact and fiction into a satisfying story that leaves the reader exhilirated and breathless after finishing  one of his books. Following in the footsteps of Tom Clancy and Clive Cussler, Dan Brown captures a loyal readership with intriguing subject matter, leading the reader down labyrinthine pathways that never seem to end but curve and twist in new directions with every turn of the page. In \\"Decepetion Point\\" he combines high tech scientific advancements, US presidential elections and politics, government agencies with secret agendas, and totally realistic characters who have depth and personalities that are believable ... along with mysterious murders that rock the establishment and create tensions that need resolution and closure.<br />The story begins with Rachel Sexton, a beautiful young lady in her mid-30s, who is going to have lunch with her father, a famous senator, and a Presidential candidate for the next, up-coming election. She and her father have different views on politics. Rachel managed to independently obtain a job in the National Reconnaisance Office (NRO), a defense agency, where her abilities had gotten her one of the top level positions in her job category. Suddenly she is summoned to the office of the Director of her department. He reveals she is to secretly meet with the President of the US, about a matter even the Director was not privileged to learn. This top secret meeting not occur at the White House, as Rachel expects, but instead occurs on Air Force One. Rachel learns her skills at NRO have not gone unnoticed ... She is secreted by an F14 jet to a scientific discovery near the Arctic Cirlce, by the Milne Ice Shelf, where she is introduced to the top scientists in the US, a geologist, a physicist, a paleontologist, and a famous TV celebrity biologist/scientist. One of whom is mysteriously found dead in a 200 foot deep icey watery pool ... next to the scientific discovery they were summoned to validate. Needless to say, someone or some sinster group is out to prevent *some* of the truth about this discovery from being thoroughly investigated ... This is how the story begins. The conflicts between government agencies, the political intrigues and rivalries, complete with s*x scandals, and office break-ins, the mysterious group or persons who are responsible for the murders or attempted murders ... are all gradually exposed. The book is highly engaging and fully holds the reader's attenton. There is never a dull moment, as the mysteries developed in this book are unraveled, one tangled colorful thread after the other. Most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)iscovery they were summoned to validate. Needless to say, someone or some sinster group is out to prevent *some* of the truth about this discovery from being thoroughly investigated ... This is how the story begins. The conflicts between government agencies, the political intrigues and rivalries, complete with s*x scandals, and office break-ins, the mysterious group or persons who are responsible for the murders or attempted murders ... are all gradually exposed. The book is highly engaging and fully holds the reader's attenton. There is never a dull moment, as the mysteries developed in this book are unraveled, one tangled colorful thread after the other. Most highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-12
US	48282789	R193VG2H91IQTC	1569245266	938905235	Escape: Stories of Getting Away	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Cultural Short Stories: Both Fact & Fiction	The title alone was enough to attract me to this book. Then when I read the 'contents', I was intrigued, captivated, hooked. The caliber of the contributors to this compilation was the clincher: Harold Brodkey, D.H. Lawrence, Winston Churchill, Vladmimir Nabokov, George Saunders, John Updike, Isaac Bashevis Singer - these were the authors I recognized. There are several others whose names were unfamiliar. The introduction by Lena Lencek and Gideon Bosker gives an overview of mankinds need to escape to a place between the real and imaginery. They chronicle many experiences that are common to all human beings which are a prelude to escape, sometimes escape is a choice, other times a natural process in the human developmental life cycle, and  other times ... it is uncontrollable historical events that create conditions making it intolerable to stay. Needless to say, the authors create a great build-up for reading their selection of stories. The introduction is a marveloulsy written prelude that creates an even greater desire to read the stories.<br />Harry Brodkey's story \\"Verona: a Young Woman Speaks\\" chronicles the adventure of a young family on a visit to Italy as told through the eyes their daughter. It describes the feelings within a family, the relationships, the social standing, the cultural outlook from the eyes of a young girl, who is about 5 or 6 years old. It is an evocative writing technique that conveys the emotional relationships within the family most effectively. Isaac Babel tells us what it was like growin up in Odessa, Russia at the turn of the century. He describes the grown-ups dreams of raising a child prodigy, who would bring honor to the family, and most importantly, a large income. While the dreams of the parents were being fulfulled through the child, the parents over-looked one important fact, the interests and talents of the child. In this setting, Isaac escaped from the violin lessons, simply by failing to show up for lessons. Instead, he met with an old gentleman, near the docks, who opened his eyes to a wider world ... who saw the potential within Isaac, for the true talents he possessed. \\"The Man Who Loved Islands\\" by D. H. Lawrence is a spell-binding tale of a 'culture within a culture\\" story. It is about a gentleman of means who purchases an island, where there are several residents all of whom have a symbiotic relationship. The author explores the social, emotional, and  positional relationships of the residents. We discover how the need to know one's self, the exploration of life's meaning becomes an over-riding theme. Eventually, the gentleman needs to escape again, therefore he purchases another island. This time, he discovers that which is inescapable. One of the best stories in this compilation is \\"Desperate Passage\\" by Michael Finkel. It is about the attempts of Haitians to escape the poverty of their island home by risking their lives out in the open ocean to get to America. The story is told by two reporters who accompanied a group of about 50 refugees, in a hand-made sailboat. It is about the privations and inhuman conditions endured by this group of people,who challenged life and death. They were stopped by the American Coast Guard, who prevented their hand-made boat from being dashed to pieces on a coral reef. The escapeees who survived were taken to the Bahamas and returned to Haiti. Another outstanding story is told by Eugenia Semoynovna Ginzburg who was imprisoned during Stalinst times accused of participating in a Trotskyist plot. The descriptions of her experiences in this horrendous prison, the means by which she maintained contact with fellow prisoners and how she nourished her spirit, hope and connection to life ... is worth reading.<br />This is a very valuable compilation of human interest short stories that decribe \\"escapes\\" of all kinds, both serious and of a humorous bent. It is highly recommended reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)t with an old gentleman, near the docks, who opened his eyes to a wider world ... who saw the potential within Isaac, for the true talents he possessed. \\"The Man Who Loved Islands\\" by D. H. Lawrence is a spell-binding tale of a 'culture within a culture\\" story. It is about a gentleman of means who purchases an island, where there are several residents all of whom have a symbiotic relationship. The author explores the social, emotional, and  positional relationships of the residents. We discover how the need to know one's self, the exploration of life's meaning becomes an over-riding theme. Eventually, the gentleman needs to escape again, therefore he purchases another island. This time, he discovers that which is inescapable. One of the best stories in this compilation is \\"Desperate Passage\\" by Michael Finkel. It is about the attempts of Haitians to escape the poverty of their island home by risking their lives out in the open ocean to get to America. The story is told by two reporters who accompanied a group of about 50 refugees, in a hand-made sailboat. It is about the privations and inhuman conditions endured by this group of people,who challenged life and death. They were stopped by the American Coast Guard, who prevented their hand-made boat from being dashed to pieces on a coral reef. The escapeees who survived were taken to the Bahamas and returned to Haiti. Another outstanding story is told by Eugenia Semoynovna Ginzburg who was imprisoned during Stalinst times accused of participating in a Trotskyist plot. The descriptions of her experiences in this horrendous prison, the means by which she maintained contact with fellow prisoners and how she nourished her spirit, hope and connection to life ... is worth reading.<br />This is a very valuable compilation of human interest short stories that decribe \\"escapes\\" of all kinds, both serious and of a humorous bent. It is highly recommended reading. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-07
US	48282789	R3BX3382LXHY78	0393024709	703276703	The Mournful Demeanour of Lieutenant Boruvka (English and Czech Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Mysterious, Witty, Entertaining Stories ... About Murder.	Lieutenant Boruvka often has a serious temperament ... however, he is sometimes caught in circumstances which contain subtle and humourous episodes that are not lost on him. His rigorous training in the academy, attention to the most obscure detail and uncanny deductive abilities ... have convinced at least one of his colleagues ... that he possesses powers beyond the normal. These stories are filled with intrigue, murder, and mystery. They are entertaining, complex and have subtle twists and turns in the plot making them a captivating reading experience. They often involve beautiful young ladies that are actresses or dancers ... with cute or exotic sounding Czechoslovakian names, Mici Laurinova or Vera Selucka, Alena Peskova, Ms Zdarska, Miss Sikorska. In fact, Lt Boruvka was himself tempted by a buxom blond-haired beauty who worked for the police force ... that he set up a rendevous with her at the Tom Cat wine tavern. The only problem is he could not keep his appointment with her  ... an investigation of an ongoing case kept him preoccupied, to his chagrin and embarassment. In fact,  he was relieved not to have become unfaithful to his wife but this temptaion and near lapse on his part ... caused him much discomfort and consternation whenever he encountered this lovely much younger coworker. The awkward behavior of Lt Boruvka in the vicinity of the policewoman has convinced his partner Lt Malek that Boruvka has *indeed* had an affair with the beautiful lady. One of the most creative episodes in a story included giving his daughter Zuzana a mathematical formula to solve, for some personal indescretion and misbehavior on her part. It involved how much atmospheric pressure would it take to expel a missile weighing half a kilogram from a muzzle with a diameter of 21.6 mm, for it to attain a velocity of 6 meters per second at a distance of 12 meters. Zuzana was so unschooled in mathematics she did not realize the difficulty of the problem nor that her father was counting on her to take the problem to her Ph.D. educated mathematics professor for a solution ... Another memorable story involved his daughter again ... this time, Lt Boruvka made a promise that if Zuzana passed her courses he would take her on holiday to Italy. Of course, he meant her to have high scores, but, as it turned out she managed to pass all classes even if she received a \\"C\\" (3) in one a \\"D\\" (2) in another. He ended up keeping his promise *but* as luck would have it, they discovered a dead female body as they were trudging along the road to their hotel. Needless to say ... Lt Boruvka's skills were utilized to the max by the Italian police and were invaluable in deciphering the clues and solving the crime. The last story reveals certain personal family matters about Lt Boruvka ... which may help explain his ... \\"mournful\\" demeanour. It is a mystery that the policewoman who has a crush on him discovers ... but chooses to keep a secret. This book is most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ing on her to take the problem to her Ph.D. educated mathematics professor for a solution ... Another memorable story involved his daughter again ... this time, Lt Boruvka made a promise that if Zuzana passed her courses he would take her on holiday to Italy. Of course, he meant her to have high scores, but, as it turned out she managed to pass all classes even if she received a \\"C\\" (3) in one a \\"D\\" (2) in another. He ended up keeping his promise *but* as luck would have it, they discovered a dead female body as they were trudging along the road to their hotel. Needless to say ... Lt Boruvka's skills were utilized to the max by the Italian police and were invaluable in deciphering the clues and solving the crime. The last story reveals certain personal family matters about Lt Boruvka ... which may help explain his ... \\"mournful\\" demeanour. It is a mystery that the policewoman who has a crush on him discovers ... but chooses to keep a secret. This book is most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-05
US	48282789	RXJEHXAFK62ZZ	1571882979	244546873	Alaska Fishing on a Budget: A First-Timer's Guide to Organizing and Planning an Economy Salmon Fishing Trip to the Last Frontier	Books	5	7	10	N	N	*The* Most Practical &amp; Useful Guide on Alaskan Fishing!	This is an adventure story ... a personal journal ...about how one man has lived his dream to go fishing in the Great Wilderness of Alaska at a moderate cost. He shows how it is possible to make this \\"once in a lifetime\\" dream come true for anyone  who is organized and an experienced fisherman. The author has  made this trip every couple of years ... for about the past 20 years. This is a practical book, with lots of  `dos and don'ts'. It is based on the author's \\"lived experience\\". It is a guide for the experienced fisherman who wants to have the ultimate fishing trip ... the one he has always dreamed about ... but believed it was out of reach due to cost.. The author describes everything you need to know about getting to Alaska, even flying there almost for free. He advises doing some internet research. He discusses fishing itineraries, camping, where to find the salmon, what equipment and fishing gear you need, and *most* importantly, how to get your \\"catch\\" home.  This book has some of the best photos of Alaska fishing I have ever seen. He shares his `secrets' of fishing on a budget, detailing many specifics. It will help the reluctant fisherman overcome many possible hurdles they may face.  The author even tells us about a few of his own `misadventures' to spare the reader from experiencing the same problems. This is one very handy and organized book for the person who wants to experience the last great frontier. It shows how with a strong committment and intelligent planning can make one's dreams can come true. A most highly recommended book.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-06-05
US	48282789	R3ORTFRS4536BE	0743437772	749743087	Hungry Ghosts	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Friendships and Deep Hidden Secrets of the Psyche	Bought this book solely by the recommendation on the jacket cover based on the quote from the UK Guardian &quot;The best thing to come out of Australia since Peter Carey&quot;. Another positive statement on the inside cover, from the Who Weekly, &quot;...combines emotional power with assured artistic polish&quot;, that clinched my decision to buy the book. Interested in other cultures, I had no idea, *not* a clue ... about the deeply disturbing subject matter of this book. A word to this wise, there are a few explicit disturbing descriptions of s*x*al perversion. Frankly, I would not have read this book had I known. Nothing in the title or cover descriptions (inside or outside) leads one to suspect. While I give it 5 stars for drama, suspense, characterization, artisic and creative writing, the author's extraordinairy ability to write about deep psychological problems ... still, I feel I was tricked into reading the book. However, as a reviewer, to new readers, I am upfront about its contents. Oddly enough, I do highly recommend this book,if one does not mind reading about this topic.<br />Rachel Gallagher and Anne-Louise Buchanan, two very different personalities who were born and raised in Brisbane, Australia, become best friends as they share similar artistic careers at a fashion magazine. They escape their mundane existence in Brisaben, to explore artistic career options in London, UK. Each gets odd jobs, one in a women's clothing store; the other as a waitress. They dreams of making it big in the world as famous artists. Oddly enough for one of these two, the dream comes true. The author alternates the stories and lives of each main character in subsequent chapters. We are first introduced to Martin James Bannister, a handsome stock broker and trader in Hong Kong. We learn of his career climb after graduating from the London School of Economics. He kept his social background suitably vague so that although he was from a working class background, no one knew or suspected. The author reveals and explores different psycholiogcal aspects of the main characters by reviewing how they were raised and the impact of key familial relationships on their personalities.  This clever writing device gives the unsuspecting reader clues to future problems, however innocent the early life experiences sound, they carry the seeds of destruction ... in the future. The book is riveting and eerie ... the bonds of friendship link these two friends and pull them down deeper and deepr into a whirling abysss of unusual life experiences of chaotic and destructive proportions. Only in later chapters does the reader connect early developmental experiences and family relationships that lead to personality and behavioral patterns. These culminate into major problems that are woven as the main themes of this book. These three lives are trapped because of their past ... not by lies ... but somehow their life experiences and personalities interlink and hook in the most twisted ways ... unimaginable except by the author. Uniquely interesting book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)suspected. The author reveals and explores different psycholiogcal aspects of the main characters by reviewing how they were raised and the impact of key familial relationships on their personalities.  This clever writing device gives the unsuspecting reader clues to future problems, however innocent the early life experiences sound, they carry the seeds of destruction ... in the future. The book is riveting and eerie ... the bonds of friendship link these two friends and pull them down deeper and deepr into a whirling abysss of unusual life experiences of chaotic and destructive proportions. Only in later chapters does the reader connect early developmental experiences and family relationships that lead to personality and behavioral patterns. These culminate into major problems that are woven as the main themes of this book. These three lives are trapped because of their past ... not by lies ... but somehow their life experiences and personalities interlink and hook in the most twisted ways ... unimaginable except by the author. Uniquely interesting book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-29
US	48282789	R314LUQOFTXXGX	0452283205	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Personal Journal Reveals  Hushed Secrets / Private Thoughts	The popularity of \\"Girl with a Pearl Earring\\" (book and film), plus a review of *this* book by an acquaintance, convinced me, \\"read this book\\" ... read anything by this author. From the first page to the last, this book held my attention. I read it in one sitting, cover to cover, over several hours, unable to put it down.<br />I was intrigued by the first entry in the book ... a rather risque confession by Kitty Coleman, that she had 'swapped husbands' at a New Year's Eve party, to show she was 'open-minded'. Furthermore, she questions her up-bringing, deemed \\"too much education for a woman\\" by some, during the Victorian era. It dawns on Kitty that her dissatisfaction with her marriage and life in general has a lot to do with inability to communicate with her husband on things that are *most* important to her. While she has a good life by the standards of the times, she is restless and dissatisfied -- she is looking for an outlet. Right from the start, this novel hooks the reader. It is from this major personal conflict that many \\"secret\\" events unfold, which later affect the lives of most of the characters in the book. This reader gives high praise for the subject matter and creartive writing ability of the author. The setting alone, where major events occur, unfold, is outstanding -- a graveyard, where two eleven year olds first meet and become \\"best friends\\". The technique of writing from the viewpoint of the first person, through the eyes of the person experiencing the event or recalling how they felt at the time, is perfect. It is unique, creative and highly effective for the subject and the era in which the events occured.<br />Another outstanding feature of this book, is how the two families who are the main characters meet ... they both have graves in a famous cemetery, that are next to each other. Each makes a negative judgement about the selection of gravestone marker for their loved one ... this is so human, so real, such a fascinating a way to begin a story. After the two eleven year old girls become 'best friends', they befriend the grave-digger's son, Simon, who shows the girls the different 'angel' grave markers throughout the cemetery. The girls often come to visit the cemetery, view the angel markers and speak with Simon. They accompany the maid, who is sent on errands to town. However, besides errands, the maid has a personal agenda, she is having a romantic affair with one of the gravdiggers. We also learn, later, that Mrs. Kitty Coleman is also meeting someone at the cemetery. She has developed an intellectual relationship with Mr. John Jackson, the manager of the graveyard. This intellectual relationship  gradually develops into a physical romantic affair. Along the way, Kitty discovers a \\"cause\\" which consumes much of her energy, the suffragettes. She dedicatea her time and energy to this one means of \\"freeing up women\\" from the limitations imposed by society ... this cause .... and her romance with Mr. John Jackson, eventually becomes her undoing. The book is worth reading to discover the means by which this occurs ...<br />This one event has a major impact on the lives of most of the characters who provide journal entries in this book. One major life event in one family, leads to another totally unexpected  crisis, that impacts the second family featured in the book, the Waterhouse family. The manner in which the author weaves the cemetery into the story ... from the highly worth the read. Learning how the lives of these two families intertwine, as they become \\"backyard neighbors\\" is fascinating. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ory. After the two eleven year old girls become 'best friends', they befriend the grave-digger's son, Simon, who shows the girls the different 'angel' grave markers throughout the cemetery. The girls often come to visit the cemetery, view the angel markers and speak with Simon. They accompany the maid, who is sent on errands to town. However, besides errands, the maid has a personal agenda, she is having a romantic affair with one of the gravdiggers. We also learn, later, that Mrs. Kitty Coleman is also meeting someone at the cemetery. She has developed an intellectual relationship with Mr. John Jackson, the manager of the graveyard. This intellectual relationship  gradually develops into a physical romantic affair. Along the way, Kitty discovers a \\"cause\\" which consumes much of her energy, the suffragettes. She dedicatea her time and energy to this one means of \\"freeing up women\\" from the limitations imposed by society ... this cause .... and her romance with Mr. John Jackson, eventually becomes her undoing. The book is worth reading to discover the means by which this occurs ...<br />This one event has a major impact on the lives of most of the characters who provide journal entries in this book. One major life event in one family, leads to another totally unexpected  crisis, that impacts the second family featured in the book, the Waterhouse family. The manner in which the author weaves the cemetery into the story ... from the highly worth the read. Learning how the lives of these two families intertwine, as they become \\"backyard neighbors\\" is fascinating. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-24
US	48282789	R6UPLCY2RLLZB	0805060103	782124798	First Love and Other Sorrows: Stories	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Uncommon Stories about  Growing Up, Love  &amp; Social Culture	This book of short stories provides a rare glimpse and unique cultural viewpoint of growing up in a mid-western working class environment in the late 1940s and early 1950s. ESsentially, the family lived an affluent lifestyle until his father made a few bad business decisions, lost their home, and later died from a lingering illness. The observations and insights Brodkey provides are priceless. He contrasts his position to that of a wealthy friend, whom he met at an Ivy League school and whose viewpoint and values reflect a totally different approach to life. He describes his mother's aspirations for his sister, whose *only* chances for a &quot;better life&quot;, i.e., achieving social and economic advantages, was by dating the right class of boyfriend, as she was expected to marry into a higher social class. The &quot;Quarrel&quot; is a story about his visit to France with a very wealthy friend and their adventures and &quot;fall out&quot;, when their social, cultural and viewpoints about life clash, resulting in a quarrel with wounded feelings that can never be repaired.<br />One of my favorite stories is &quot;Sentimental Education&quot; where a male student sees a pretty young lady at the college he attends and longs to meet and date her. He occasionally sees her at different locations but is too shy to speak to her. He daydreams about meeting her as he falls head over heels in love. He discovers she signed up for a Medieval poetry class, so he changes his choice and signs up for the same class. Eventually they meet and discuss literature. The heart of this story is the strong physical and emotional needs that accompnay this &quot;first love' experience. Brodkey is a tremendously gifted author who provides keen and sensitive insights into life as it was lived in the 1950s. He provides an interesting contrast of the viewpoints of working people and those who possess privilege, money, and therefore more power. This is a book rich with detailed observations about social distinctions and the human behavior that accompanies different positions in society. It provides a greater understanding of r life as it was lived within a particular cultural era. This book receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)cial distinctions and the human behavior that accompanies different positions in society. It provides a greater understanding of r life as it was lived within a particular cultural era. This book receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-21
US	48282789	R37UY8SFY5TXDM	1887178503	880914803	East into Upper East: Plain Tales from New York and New Delhi	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unusually Complex  and Contrasting Cultures	The dichotomy between two cultures and countries couldn't be revealed more subtlety than as written by this author ... Her stories have unusual themes and are written matter-of-factly .. yet they possess great depth and understanding which is camouflaged in plain words, simple rhetoric. Do *not* let the \\"apparent\\" simplicity ...fool you. As the saying goes, 'still waters run deep' ... These stories are immensely rich and deep.<br /><br />The book is divided into two sections, the first, called \\"East\\" has six stories from India. The other, called, \\"Upper East\\" is devoted to stories from New York and the East coast of the USA. The following are two summaries of stories from India. In the \\"Expiation\\", the reader is introduced to a family who were poor but who lived in a developing region of India. Their standard of living improved tremendously as they prospered after starting a business. The older brother tells us his story, how he loved and cared for his younger sibling ... whose pet name is \\"Bablu\\". As the baby of the family, Bablu is spoiled and eventually becomes reckless. We find out to what depths brotherly love prevails *despite* the irresponsible behavior of the younger sibling. \\"Farid and Farida\\" is my favorite story in this section. This happily married successful young Indian couple move to the UK to fulfill their dreams. However, life in London does not meet their high expectations. After 15 years, they live in a shabby apartment and are still 'just making it'. They rely on 'loans\\" from a prosperous Indian friend who was from their hometown in India. Although this male friend was unpopular when growing up at 'home' ... in the UK he becomes a wealthy man. Farida can no longer tolerate their squalid living conditions, so she returns to India without her husuband. After 20 years of separation, her husband Farid searches for his wife. To his astonishment, he discovers her at an ashram, a mountain retreat, where she is receiving visitors from all over the world, providing them wisdom and peace. She accepts her husband's visit serenely ... as if they were never apart. Next, the Indian business friend from the UK discovers Farida's successful venture and tempts her with an offer -- find out what it is. The conclusion to the story is worth reading.<br /><br />Section two, \\"Upper East\\" is filled with eight highly diverse human interest stories. The author tells  each story simply and elegantly. After rading each story in this section, this reader felt as if struck by lightening. The message in each story leaves a huge unexpected impact. Each story has layers and layers of undiscovered meaning. There are no \\"warning danger ahead\\" signs to reveal the paths taken by the people in these stories. Just as well, the warnings would not be followed anyway ... In this section, my favorite story is \\"The Temptress\\". Briefly, two former college roommates meet an Indian lady who sees to be an ordinairy person. These two friends are seeking meaning and enlightenment in their lives. \\"Ma\\", the Indian lady, seems to possess extraordinairy powers to reveal illness, past lives, and predict the future. One of the young ladies provides Ma a room in her apartment. Ma develops a strong following as she lectures to people about \\"life\\". The neighbors flock to this 'spiritual' lady. One needs to read the story to find out how this story ends.<br /><br />In summary, Ms Ruth Prawer Jhabvala possesses an unusual  ability to tell highly complex stories with elegant simplicity. Her talents are dazzling. People's lives are revealed so gradually that only *after* the reader is finished does the full impact of the unique perspective strike the reader. Even then, it takes several hours to penetrate and realize how deep and penetrating the meaning is and what was actually revealed. This book receives my highest praise. Erika Borsos (erikab93)providing them wisdom and peace. She accepts her husband's visit serenely ... as if they were never apart. Next, the Indian business friend from the UK discovers Farida's successful venture and tempts her with an offer -- find out what it is. The conclusion to the story is worth reading.<br /><br />Section two, \\"Upper East\\" is filled with eight highly diverse human interest stories. The author tells  each story simply and elegantly. After rading each story in this section, this reader felt as if struck by lightening. The message in each story leaves a huge unexpected impact. Each story has layers and layers of undiscovered meaning. There are no \\"warning danger ahead\\" signs to reveal the paths taken by the people in these stories. Just as well, the warnings would not be followed anyway ... In this section, my favorite story is \\"The Temptress\\". Briefly, two former college roommates meet an Indian lady who sees to be an ordinairy person. These two friends are seeking meaning and enlightenment in their lives. \\"Ma\\", the Indian lady, seems to possess extraordinairy powers to reveal illness, past lives, and predict the future. One of the young ladies provides Ma a room in her apartment. Ma develops a strong following as she lectures to people about \\"life\\". The neighbors flock to this 'spiritual' lady. One needs to read the story to find out how this story ends.<br /><br />In summary, Ms Ruth Prawer Jhabvala possesses an unusual  ability to tell highly complex stories with elegant simplicity. Her talents are dazzling. People's lives are revealed so gradually that only *after* the reader is finished does the full impact of the unique perspective strike the reader. Even then, it takes several hours to penetrate and realize how deep and penetrating the meaning is and what was actually revealed. This book receives my highest praise. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-17
US	48282789	R34OZIGRNKCOSN	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	There is much more than "friendship" at stake ...	The title &#34;Embers&#34; makes this reader think of a smoldering fire - one either ready to die out-- or ready to be reawakened  - into a full blazing *fire*. Indeed, the metaphor fits, the unexpected shock of *what* it is that could erupt into a flame and why the title fits, becomes cystal clear about half-way thorugh the book. Similar to Franz Kafka, Marai builds a personal tension that becomes an existential experience, a psychological conundrum - for the General (Henrik). The General has lived with certain questions - questions he needs answered.<br /><br />The book begins with the General describing his boyhood friendship with Konrad. The friendship began in military school during the Austro-Hungarian empire. The General was of an upper class background, Konrad's parents sold their land and lived on the edge of poverty to provide their son, an advantage in life. The General's father made an observation about Konrad, the first time he visited their home. Konrad was playing a Chopin piece with Henrik's mother, when Henrik's father made a very telling observation about Konrad, &#34;He is different kind of man&#34;. This observation sets up the mystery which the book gradually, very gradually reveals. It is the reason why the book is so intriguing and fascinating. The reader wants to discover  why is Konrad 'different'. Just what does this mean?<br /><br />The General is preparing his castle for Konrad's visit. The friends are going to reunite after 41 years of separation. Although, they remained on the best of terms as the closest of friends for 24 years - something happened - it made Konrad leave, without a word. The General needed to know, why did Konrad take off with no word of good-bye- to explore the world. Konrad often stayed at the General's castle and dined with the General and his wife, Krisztina. This reader suspected that somehow Krisztina held the key to his unexpected and unexplained departure. However there is a deeper unexplained ... primitive ... dark secret ... waiting to be unraveled. It is revealed in elegant prose. The book is deeply moving and filled with suspense, a mesmerizing experience. Erika Borsos (erikab93)dark secret ... waiting to be unraveled. It is revealed in elegant prose. The book is deeply moving and filled with suspense, a mesmerizing experience. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-11
US	48282789	R2WQQ2JHC75Y1D	0900860367	977006827	Elephant in the Dark	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Before the Fundamentalists Distorted Islamic Teaching ...	Idries Shah wrote this wonderful book that examined the commonalities of Christianity, Islam, and the Sufis. He begins by discussing &#34;ecumenical&#34; which means &#34;belonging to the whole world.&#34; The Sufis view of salvation is a &#34;surrender to God&#34;. The author points out how through cultural inheritance and teaching, people of different faiths receive a distorted view of the other's religion. So one needs to examine personal beliefs and the beliefs of others to understand what surrender to God entails.<br /><br />Muslim teaching acknowledges Jesus was an &#34;al-Sayyed&#34;, a Prince or Lord, however they hold that he was fully human who encouraged people to surrender to God. The commonality of the two religions is belief in God and submission to his will. The author does a historical review of how respective rulers treated someone of a different religion within Christian and Islam domains of rule. The common history of both religions as seekers of truth are explained. According to Shah, it was a Christian monk who first informed the polytheist Arabs that when Mohammed was twelve years old, he was later to become a spiritual teacher. For many centuries in the past, the writings of Christian and Moslem thinkers were replete with agreement in the fields of politics, science, medicine, and economics. There were many common threads between the cultures. The author acknowledges  people reading a subject will find information which matches their own biases, based on narrow experiences. He admonishes, &#34;Currently, in the East and West, there is so much publication and misinformation that only extensive reading will enable the student to form a useful opinion&#34; [p. 64 c. 1974, 1978] These words are even more prophetic 30 years after written, in the post 9-1-1 era. The author realizes there is a tendency for over-generalization as well as the possibility of focusing too narrowly on portions any doctrine. Most importantly, it is necessary to recognize that there are a constellation of concepts built into Arabic words, which if translated from the Quran, will be disturbed or distorted. The mystical experiences of Sufis and Christian saints however seem beyond this cultural conundrum. The Sufi heritage possesses experiential descriptions that hold much promise in bringing the Christian and Islamic cultures together on the basis of commonalites in spiritual and moral grounding.<br /><br />This book is highly recommended as a means of understanding foundational beliefs of Islam as they relate to Christianity. The author begins the book with the story told by by Rumi over 700 years ago, in which several men touch an elephant and each believes he is describing the whole, as one touches an ear, the other a leg, and another the trunk. For a mere 76 pages, this is a very thought-provoking book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)hat there are a constellation of concepts built into Arabic words, which if translated from the Quran, will be disturbed or distorted. The mystical experiences of Sufis and Christian saints however seem beyond this cultural conundrum. The Sufi heritage possesses experiential descriptions that hold much promise in bringing the Christian and Islamic cultures together on the basis of commonalites in spiritual and moral grounding.<br /><br />This book is highly recommended as a means of understanding foundational beliefs of Islam as they relate to Christianity. The author begins the book with the story told by by Rumi over 700 years ago, in which several men touch an elephant and each believes he is describing the whole, as one touches an ear, the other a leg, and another the trunk. For a mere 76 pages, this is a very thought-provoking book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-05-03
US	48282789	R30QUX8HS7I1MM	046508561X	338643958	The Thirteen Petalled Rose: A Discourse On The Essence Of Jewish Existence And Belief	Books	5	37	38	N	N	For ALL Seekers: Distilled Essence of Jewish Belief	Whether one is Jewish or not, this book clearly and succinctly provides important knowledge about esoteric Jewish beliefs for those who are seeking answers to spiritual questions. The discourse on \\"Worlds\\" includes abstract but not difficult to follow ideas of how energy, thoughts, actions and feelings affect other dimensions (\\"worlds\\"). The description of the domain of angels and their interaction in the human realm is very lucid and enlightening. The mysteries of the Kabbalah are touched upon in terms of how the ten Sefirot connect to organic Reality.  The mystery of life is revealed as events in our world affect the nature and quality of relations, in terms of light and power in other worlds. The importance of the study and practice of mitzvot can not be over emphasized. It is words and deeds that help illuminate our soul and bring about blessings which make the world a better place. Through human will, the intersection of all worlds occurs, because the human being has the power to change the fixed order of things.<br /><br />Rabbi Steinsaltz's description of that which is \\"Holy\\" is exceptionally clear. Holy means separation, that which is Holy is untouchable, distinctly \\"Other\\", and can not be understood or defined. He does however reassure us, despite the transcendental nature and distance of that which is Holy, human beings can become more receptive and open to Its influence. He connects time, space, and the soul of humans with the effects of the Sefirot in our realm, along with the performance of mitzvot. The results of all these connections and interactions can be described as concentric circles or a helix of energy between realms. He describes how the spark of life in man, when expressed as a creative urge brings more divine influence into the world and thus expresses the image of G-d.<br /><br />The two last chapters, \\"Repentance\\" and \\"Search for Oneself\\" complete this discourse of how Jewish thinking views the role of mankind in connecting with the Divine expression of G-d. The Torah is seen as a plan of human action, a guide for the proper ways of thinking, behaving, dreaming and desiring in the world. The higher levels of repentance, called Tikkun, are described. The purpose of genuine Tikkun is to correct the effects  of past misdeeds by creating new patterns that outweigh past wrongs. From this correction, a new condition is created, as merits are derived from past transgressions. The Jewish thinking and discourse developed by Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz in this book is a wholistic framework which describes a path of self-discovery. He answers many questions asked by human beings since the beginning of time, such as, 'Why am I here?' 'What is my purpose in life?' The unique separate existence of each person is expressed in the sentence, \\"Myriads of sparks reflect the primal light everyone of them with its own situation, its own set of circumstances.\\"  [p.148] On the other hand, for the person who seeks to connect to the world, other human beings and ultimately G-d, this book provides a special path to follow. Erika Borsos (erikab93)expression of G-d. The Torah is seen as a plan of human action, a guide for the proper ways of thinking, behaving, dreaming and desiring in the world. The higher levels of repentance, called Tikkun, are described. The purpose of genuine Tikkun is to correct the effects  of past misdeeds by creating new patterns that outweigh past wrongs. From this correction, a new condition is created, as merits are derived from past transgressions. The Jewish thinking and discourse developed by Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz in this book is a wholistic framework which describes a path of self-discovery. He answers many questions asked by human beings since the beginning of time, such as, 'Why am I here?' 'What is my purpose in life?' The unique separate existence of each person is expressed in the sentence, \\"Myriads of sparks reflect the primal light everyone of them with its own situation, its own set of circumstances.\\"  [p.148] On the other hand, for the person who seeks to connect to the world, other human beings and ultimately G-d, this book provides a special path to follow. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-28
US	48282789	R32DEAK59B0AO0	0679729976	608016472	The Stories of Vladimir Nabokov	Books	5	52	57	N	N	Realistic, Imaginative, Creative Stories Written by A Genius	Vladimir Nabokov uses words like an artist uses paint on canvas ... you can see, feel, touch, and sense the stories on many levels. He uses words to control images, emotions, and the level of impact on the reader. \\"The written word\\" is his media. His stories provide gripping emotions, startling revelations, depths of experience, creative twists and turns of the plot ... leaving the reader flipping pages as fast as the  mind can grasp the meaning what is read. Whether Nabokov is describing the deep, dark Russian soul or the generous, warm Russian heart, or mundane everyday experiences and scenes - he is a master psychologist who understands human behavior. While his subjects are primarily Russians or Russian emigres, he confines his writing to a unique time in history, about 75 - 80 years ago. Often, the settings are Russia, Germany, or other parts of Europe. The characters come from all walks of life: the aristocracy, the educated, rich landowners, students, ordinairy workers, shopkeepers, writers, and poor peasants. He sometimes contrasts their persona with a deep dark secret or desire.. He seldom leaves a stone unturned when describing the particular path they trod in life. The stories are so engaging and captivating, the characters, plot, settings are so realistic ... this reader wishes some of the stories would never end. You just know there is something yet remaining ... to reveal.<br /><br />Favorite stories, are \\"A Matter of Chance\\", in which a Russian waiter working in the dining car of a German fast train, narrowly misses meeting his wife whom he has not seen in five years. Ironically, she loses her gold wedding ring, later found by a German waiter. The waiter reads the inscription but makes no connection to his co-worker. The Russian waiter unexpectedly gets off at the next stop. Read the story to find out ... the unexpected ending. Another favorite is, \\"Wingstroke\\", the most creative and imaginative story in the book. Kern is a young skier who falls in love with a mysterious young woman, Isabel. She is staying on the same floor of his hotel. One night Kern can not sleep, he tosses and turns due to thinking of her. He goes out into the corridor and sees the key in her door. He gingerly opens it and startles Isabel, who lunges toward the window and leaps ... As Kern is pondering this turn of events, in flies something huge, with wings. He wrestles with the creature and stuffs it in the wardrobe. Isabel returns and asks about it, knowing it flew in. Kern tells her where it is and returns to his room.. The next day, Isabel is expected to make a difficult jump. To discover what happened to \\"the creature\\", Isabel, and Kern ... you have to read the story. Another most appealing story is, \\"La Veneziana\\". The McGores are a wealthy couple who collect art. They acquired a beautiful portrait of a young woman which captured everyone's attention. After the guests play a game of croquet, they come inside to admire the portrait. It dawns on Simpson, a student, who was a friend of the family's son, that the portrait resembles Mr. McGore's wife. Yet, the painter was said to be Sebastiano Luciano, from the fifteenth century. To discover how and why this painting could resemble Mrs. McGore... one needs to read the story.<br /><br />In summary, the author writes stories with imagination, creativity, substance, depth, unique perspective, and deep emotion. He explores human experiences from many angles. His stories are entertaining, educational, and deeply satisfying to read. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ve with a mysterious young woman, Isabel. She is staying on the same floor of his hotel. One night Kern can not sleep, he tosses and turns due to thinking of her. He goes out into the corridor and sees the key in her door. He gingerly opens it and startles Isabel, who lunges toward the window and leaps ... As Kern is pondering this turn of events, in flies something huge, with wings. He wrestles with the creature and stuffs it in the wardrobe. Isabel returns and asks about it, knowing it flew in. Kern tells her where it is and returns to his room.. The next day, Isabel is expected to make a difficult jump. To discover what happened to \\"the creature\\", Isabel, and Kern ... you have to read the story. Another most appealing story is, \\"La Veneziana\\". The McGores are a wealthy couple who collect art. They acquired a beautiful portrait of a young woman which captured everyone's attention. After the guests play a game of croquet, they come inside to admire the portrait. It dawns on Simpson, a student, who was a friend of the family's son, that the portrait resembles Mr. McGore's wife. Yet, the painter was said to be Sebastiano Luciano, from the fifteenth century. To discover how and why this painting could resemble Mrs. McGore... one needs to read the story.<br /><br />In summary, the author writes stories with imagination, creativity, substance, depth, unique perspective, and deep emotion. He explores human experiences from many angles. His stories are entertaining, educational, and deeply satisfying to read. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-27
US	48282789	R1AIZZF96DSX6C	0553583999	390156756	May There Be a Road: Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wide Range of Exciting Adventure/Human Interest Stories	This is my first Louis L'Amour book and certainly not my last. I prefer short stories because I can read each quickly and not be caught up for too many hours, trying to find out what happened. All ten short stories captured my interest and each was very different from the other, altogther a thoroughly enjoyable read.<br />The main appeal of this compilation for me is the wide range of stories that occur within unique settings: Hawaii, Tibet, Brazil, Mexico, and the Southwest, USA. There are several stories about boxing/prize fighting, which amazingly, I enjoyed. The key to this author's writing is how he builds suspense, gradually reveals his characters, and keeps the reader hooked, wanting to know more, as the story unfolds in unexpected ways. The author has a keen grasp of human nature. He knows the human condition which he reveals in its myriad of aspects in each story.<br />One of my favorite stories is &quot;May There Be a Road&quot; which is about the courage shown by Tohkta, a young Tibetan, when he is planning to capture his future wife, but ends up unexpectedly  fighting the Communists, and doing a very daring deed to save his village. Serendipty strikes, as I read the words, &quot;Yol Bolsun&quot;, an old Tibetan greeting, meant for those who took the old mountain trails. It means, &quot;May there be a road&quot; and is the title of a recent CD by Sevarah Nazarkhan (Uzbekhistan) which I bought [and reviewed]. The other favorite is &quot;The Cactus Kid&quot;. Reading this story is like watching an old TV Western from the 1950s. It is just as satisfying. Nesselrode Clay, aka, &quot;The Cactus Kid&quot;, inadvertently stumbles upon a dastardly plot by the Uncle of a beautiful senorita. He plans to swindle her out of very expensive land. Of course, &quot;The Cactus Kid&quot; saves her from this awful fate. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-26
US	48282789	R1Q2NNB38L72MZ	0865476276	237266234	Stolen Figs: And Other Adventures in Calabria	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Explore Family Roots in Calabria: Taste and Feel Old Italy	Hear the sounds, taste the food, kiss the relatives, explore the terrain, climb the mountains, visit the castles, learn the history (Greeks, Bruttians, Romans, Visigoth conquests) ... experience the adventure of exploring one's family roots in a small village in southern Italy. The village, Gimigilano, is located in Calabria, the region that looks like the foot on a map of Italy, which everyone knows resembles a boot. The author, Mark Rotella, describes his *very* first visit to this village with his father and later subsequent visits either alone or with his wife, who is of English and Dutch heritage. He captivates the reader with descriptions of nostalgia and heart-felt longing when he emotionally connects to the traditions, customs and life of the village. He is befriended by Giuseppe, a photographer, who produces postcards that he sells to regional shops and businesses. Giuseppe becomes his personal driver and tour guide to Calabria ...<br /><br />The author intersperses memories of growing up, recalling how his grandfather made wine in New Jersey, which he traded with a Portuguese farmer, who raised pigs ... his grandfather slaughtered the pig in the old-fashion way and provided the family with the same cuts of meat that the author saw on his visit to the village. The author includes memories and discussions with his father. One of which is the family story when his grandfather returned to the village to find himself a suitable wife. He married her in the village and took his bride to live in America.  Since his grandmother and grandfather practiced old world ways, the author was able to trace many of the family traditons back to the village and culture of the region. Favorite dishes, foods, spices and their preparation, Italian hospitality, the importance of family and the sense of belonging, are all aspects of the Italian culture of which the author is proud.<br /><br />The continuation of customs and traditions in Calabria persist ... kneading and baking bread in communal fashion, making wine, eating rabbit stew, tending an olive grove, stealing figs from a neighbor's tree. The author wished to be viewed and accepted as the \\"returning son of the village\\" ...  even sought Italian citizenship. He was disappointed to discover he was seen as \\"the American visitor\\". He found out ...one had to be *born* in Calabria, to be viewed as Calabrese. While Calabria has a depressed economy compared to Rome, Venice and Naples, all northern cities ... it has a proud and resilient people who continue to live in the region helping the area to develop. This author recreates the feelings and lifestyle of the village and surrounding towns and cities so well that the reader wants to experience it first hand. The imagination of the reader is captured by the sights, sounds, tastes and smells of Calabria ... one feels and senses this  part of Italy is unspoiled in its splendor and beauty. You want to go there before the modern world intrudes and destroys it. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ad in communal fashion, making wine, eating rabbit stew, tending an olive grove, stealing figs from a neighbor's tree. The author wished to be viewed and accepted as the \\"returning son of the village\\" ...  even sought Italian citizenship. He was disappointed to discover he was seen as \\"the American visitor\\". He found out ...one had to be *born* in Calabria, to be viewed as Calabrese. While Calabria has a depressed economy compared to Rome, Venice and Naples, all northern cities ... it has a proud and resilient people who continue to live in the region helping the area to develop. This author recreates the feelings and lifestyle of the village and surrounding towns and cities so well that the reader wants to experience it first hand. The imagination of the reader is captured by the sights, sounds, tastes and smells of Calabria ... one feels and senses this  part of Italy is unspoiled in its splendor and beauty. You want to go there before the modern world intrudes and destroys it. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-24
US	48282789	RYZEUYX4NU9Y8	0805073817	368226144	Nine Hills to Nambonkaha: Two Years in the Heart of an African Village	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Experience the Culture/Politics/Life in an African Village	Experience the sights, sounds and rhythms of an African village as Sarah Erdman, armed with a four year US college degree and three months of training to be a healthcare worker ... describes two years of her life spent with the Peace Corps, in  Nambonkaha, on the Ivory Coast of Africa. Ms Erdman proves up to the task of learning the customs/traditions of the village, utilizing the protocols of local politics to achieve her goals. She is understandably irked/outraged by the concept of embezzlement (\\" bouffer\\") that is rampant wherever government funds/large business transactions occur. She is touched to the core by the village's response as they present her with gifts (\\"cadeau\\") when she runs out of funds while her house is being built. Sarah Erdman proves to have an indominatable spirit and courage to face the tasks and challenges before her ... she wants to make a difference in the lives of this village. She understands the realistic obstacles she faces. The main tangible obstacle is lack of funds, making due with what is available and the realities of poverity. The intangible obstacles are local customs, cultural beliefs and the religious underpinnings of animism despite the outward stated religion of Islam (Muslim).<br />Working within the system, Ms Erdman recognized she could not change long-standing social norms and life-styles. She accepted polygamy and the problems associated with raising an extended family. Certain social norms/duties were ingrained in the culture that can not be changed despite the fact they created deeper problems for the survival of individuals and society as a whole. One man in the village was obligated to accept the widow of his cousin as his fourth wife. It was an unquestioned duty and norm for him to receive the widow of his brother or cousin as his wife. It was a benefit to him and his family to have more wives who provide for more workers to farm the local cash crop, raise the children within the family, and who provide needed help and respite for the other wives during their pregnancies. The new wife had a beautiful doe-eyed baby who developed fevers and a rash called \\"boutons\\" ((English, \\"buttons\\"). When the routine of antibiotics did not cure the fever ... AIDS was suspected and confirmed. Essentially, the social obligation of accepting the new wife (who did not know she had this disease)  became a death sentence for this husband and all of his wives. Perhaps, the children will survive but *only*if precautions are followed (known).... they would be accepted into *another* extended family, after their parents died. This is one example of the cycle of illness/death/despair/poverty which is difficult if not *impossible* to break and overcome despite the help of  outsiders. The ultimate reality is: the villagers themselves need to change and break the cycle. Ms Erdman asks the BIG QUESTION, \\"How do you promote behavior change so that people have more control over the state of their bodies but stop at<br />the threshold where important traditions get destroyed?\\" [p. 48] Perhaps, she provides the answer by writing this book, demonstrating that one young white woman daring to go to the heart of an African village and living there for two years, *CAN* and *DOES* make a difference. She received honor, acceptance, and recognition by the village mayor and elders, in that she was allowed to sit and eat with the men during village meetings and cermeonies. The village mayor thanked her in his own way, by approving/appreciating her \\"healthy-baby contest\\" efforts to improve the nutrition and health of the African children. He allowed AIDs education, which broke taboos, because unementionable body parts were discussed and shown on film (by a regional government group). Ms Erdman's approach for AIDs education was to write a play with local villagers chosen as actors to fulfill roles to teach the concepts of how AIDS is spread and to teach 'safe sex' practices. In this book, Sarah Erdman shows how one personwho truly cares, can touch the hearts, souls, and  lives (bodies, health) of a village through knowledge, sensitivty and respect for the culture of a people who are different from her own. She shows the value of getting involved and doing something to help humanity. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)who truly cares, can touch the hearts, souls, and  lives (bodies, health) of a village through knowledge, sensitivty and respect for the culture of a people who are different from her own. She shows the value of getting involved and doing something to help humanity. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-23
US	48282789	R2ISBSHOB9A2AQ	0195141830	600036030	The Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and the Faiths We Never Knew	Books	5	36	44	N	N	What the Minister Left Out of His Sermon ...	The author, Bart D. Ehrman, is a religious scholar who chairs the Department of Religious Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He shares with the public some of the most current and controversial discoveries about the early Christians.  Frankly, it is an eye-opener. Truly, the statement \\"know the truth and the truth shall set you free\\" applies here. One senses the turmoil, conflicts, changes, and uncertainty of the times, the very real possibility of persecution which the early Christians faced with courage and dignity, ever faithful that the physical life on earth pales in comparison to what awaits them in the hereafter. Essentially, they were an evolving group who were in competition with the established religions of the time and occassionally had views that opposed the politicians, or those in power felt threatened by the \\"new thought\\". There were numerous *expressions* of belief with differences occuring in practice and stated doctrine. The one  certainty they all shared was that Jesus was the Messiah and he survived crucifixion. Most of the early Christians expected Jesus would return in *their* lifetime, there would be a final judgement in *their* lifetime, there would be a 'heaven on earth' created, with the \\"resurrection\\" for all believers. However, when this did not happen ... the early Christians began slowly to develop a religious doctrine. This took several centuries.  Core beliefs became established and ingrained as a solid foundation upon which current religions are based.<br /><br />Some of the important points derived from this book are that human beings with specific agendas ('beliefs') inserted their interpretation into the manuscripts that were copied over and over and often taken to be accurate. Another interesting point is, how the concept of \\"apostolic succession\\" evolved ... and even this idea, has at least three different versions, \\"the Ebionite view\\", \\"the proto-orthodox view\\", and the \\"Valentinian view\\". The Ebionites claimed to represent the views of Peter the apostle ... Some very real controversy exists about who  selected the writing that would become what is now known, as the New Testament. Numerous Apocrypha sources existed at the time. Paul's writing to the Corinthians and other groups attests to the many differences in belief and practice that existed in that era.<br /><br />One of the topics in this book that impressed me the most is the following: a detailed discussion and analysis of how conclusions are derived from stated beliefs. The author explains how the Nicene and Athanasian creeds were developed. He tells us how the Roman Emperor Constantine influenced the practice of Christianity with his religious beliefs about Sol Invictus. The importance of the religious beliefs and practice of the Gnostics can not be over emphasized, although in modern times they receive little attention. Bart Ehrman does a phenomenal job of outlining the religious orthodoxy of Origin, who later was condemned as a heretic and most of his writing was destroyed. The sad truth is whoever holds political power determines the predominant view and  ... like in all wars, the victor destroys the evidence he finds most threatening, i.e, whatever will undermine his position. The evolution of the \\"Trinity\\" as a consistent belief system and foundational structure of Christianity is very fascinating. Mr. Erhman describes why Paul's conversion and preaching of his newly found religious faith became one of the predominant views.<br /><br />Anyone who has become dissatisfied with the current practice of religion, where there is more ritual than substance, will appreciate this book. People reading this book should have a firmly established set of beliefs that are consistent for them, otherwise, this book may lead them to question a great deal more than they bargained for, after picking up this book. The author is a highly articulate scholar in his field. He is intelligent enough to omit mentioning his religious affiliation. This shows me he is sincere in his approach and makes every effort to provide an unbiased viewpoint. He did the research to uncover the evidence ... you, the reader will have to draw your own personal conclusions. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)gious affiliation. This shows me he is sincere in his approach and makes every effort to provide an unbiased viewpoint. He did the research to uncover the evidence ... you, the reader will have to draw your own personal conclusions. Most highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-17
US	48282789	R1GIA88OPPYT7G	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Heart-warming, Revealing, Cultural Short Stories	There are eight heart-warming, revealing, personal human interest stories in this small volume which make it quite clear why Ms Jhumpa Lahiri received the Pulitzer Prize in literature. Her stories are vivid and colorful descriptions of human experiences and life situations. Some are light-hearted and humorous, others serious, some are everyday occurrences; all leave a deep impression on the reader who is a little wiser, kinder and more compassionate after having read them.<br />The reader will long remember the nights that the electricity went out in a neighborhood where Shoba (female) and Shukumar (male) lived. They became emotionally distant after the still born birth of their baby. On the first night, Shukumar prepared a traditional Indian dinner which the couple had not eaten for a long time, not since they grew apart due to the impact of this personal tragedy. Shoba started a little game, of revealing something to her husband that she said he never knew about her. He was expected to reciprocate. Shukumar began to have more intense feelings of love toward his wife after these revelations began. In fact, even after the electricity was fixed ... they continued their &quot;candle light suppers&quot; and &quot;secret revelations&quot;. Shukumar was in for a big surprise one night when Shoba laid before him, one of her 'secret revelations'. Read the story to find out what he discovered ...<br />In another story, we are introduced to Mr. Pirzada, originally from a region of India, which later was partitioned to become Pakistan. He routinely visited an Indian family for dinner and to watch TV, particularly the news, to learn of developments in his homeland. He was a research botanist at a local university and lived in sparse surroundings. He left his wife and seven daughters in the region of India which broke out in war and afterwards became Pakistan. He won a research grant at a prestigious University in his specialty. During his visits to this family, he brought treats and candies for the little girl. The little girl was raised in the USA and primarily learned only US history. Much later, she discovered the reasons Mr. Pirzada visited and his strong affection for the little girl. She hoarded her treats in a secret box, and carefully doled them out to herself to make them last. The war had ended and Mr. Pirzada's research was competed. He returned to Pakistan and sent the Indian family a letter, explaining that all was well, his wife and daughters survived the war. Life was being built anew. It was only then the little girl realized the importance of these visits to Mr. Pirzada and to herself as well. Watching the news, learning about developments on the otherside of the globe reminded him of his wife and family. Providing the little girl treats had somehow connected him closer to his own little girls. There are other equally enchanting stories in this book which leave the reader filled with a warm glow. All the stories in the book reveal significant details about people's lives with sensitivity and compassion. Each is a slices of human life, which unravels deep emotions that are delicate threads which connect the person or people to their culture and to humanity as a whole. This is an excellent book and receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ts and candies for the little girl. The little girl was raised in the USA and primarily learned only US history. Much later, she discovered the reasons Mr. Pirzada visited and his strong affection for the little girl. She hoarded her treats in a secret box, and carefully doled them out to herself to make them last. The war had ended and Mr. Pirzada's research was competed. He returned to Pakistan and sent the Indian family a letter, explaining that all was well, his wife and daughters survived the war. Life was being built anew. It was only then the little girl realized the importance of these visits to Mr. Pirzada and to herself as well. Watching the news, learning about developments on the otherside of the globe reminded him of his wife and family. Providing the little girl treats had somehow connected him closer to his own little girls. There are other equally enchanting stories in this book which leave the reader filled with a warm glow. All the stories in the book reveal significant details about people's lives with sensitivity and compassion. Each is a slices of human life, which unravels deep emotions that are delicate threads which connect the person or people to their culture and to humanity as a whole. This is an excellent book and receives my highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-08
US	48282789	R1T7OR0E641FWX	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Bland Predictable Ending - No Surprises, No Curves or Twists	For a #1 New York Times best selling novel, I expected more. The jacket cover predicted, a \\"surprising ... hair-raising ... spiced up suspenseful new recipe\\". I never tasted the old recipe but this new one is too bland for my tastes.<br /><br />Like the head-lines of a newspaper, you know there are problems somewhere in the world, all you need to do is read the article to find out the details ... It did not take long to determine who the problematic character was in this book. One could sense the direction of the plot rather early ... I simply read the book to find out the details of who did what to whom and why.<br /><br />There is a gripping beginning, the heroine aged mid-twenties unexpectedly lost her husband to brain cancer ... it had my full attention. The book would have been better if it had flash-backs of their lives together while the book explores her ability to develop a relationship four years after the death of her husband. The \\"new guy\\" is a consulting engineer, from a big city who is working on a project in her small town in North Carolina. He sweeps her off her feet, takes her to expensive restaurants and giving her a gold heart pendant necklace. When he first kisses her, she questions its timing, his motives, and her future reactions. This is the first clue, that something about *him* is a bit off. There are minute clues throughout the book that add up and create tension for Julie Barenson, our heroine.<br /><br />Mike, a guy who used to be her husband's \\"best friend\\" in high school is carrying a torch in his heart for her, but he can not and does not express his true feelings for her. Julie's husband provides a gift ... almost from beyond the grave. He told a neighbor to give her a puppy, which will be her companion, her guard. Her husband also wrote her a letter, reassuring her, when she sees the dog, it is like a symbol that he is thinking of her. The stage is set early for who the main characters are and what parts they will play. It is easy to recognize where the plot and story will go ... The only reason to read the book is to find out what techniques are used to deliver *THE* *EXPECTED* *OUTCOME*. It contains a basic human interest romance makes it easy reading but there is nothing explosive or spell-binding in the book. It is an average reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)recognize where the plot and story will go ... The only reason to read the book is to find out what techniques are used to deliver *THE* *EXPECTED* *OUTCOME*. It contains a basic human interest romance makes it easy reading but there is nothing explosive or spell-binding in the book. It is an average reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-04-01
US	48282789	RDSHTJWUHGB8Q	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Religion &amp; Science Collide in a Kaleidoscopic Novel	Dan Brown may very well have invented a new category of fiction ... 'the occult society murder mystery'. If it already existed, then he blasted himself to the #1 spot on the New York Times best seller list in this genre, not once but twice, first with &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; and now, with &quot;Angels and Demons&quot;. This is one non-stop, page turning book I could not put down. In fact, it took me exactly 3 1/2 - 4 hours to finish. What a whirlwind of a novel! It has one of the most unusual, unexpected endings I have ever read. It is replete with so many curves, twists, turns, and events in the last chapter that it is mind-blowing ... yet believable. The author manages to interweave two seemingly disparate topics, religion and science, into a meaningful whole -- hitting some raw nerves for readers unfamiliar with current research in subatomic physics. Physicists have arrived at a point where many of the descriptions of subatomic particles sound exactly like religious or zen-like statements. Dan Brown proves to be a genius at combining ideas and concepts from modern scientific research, current political events, and religion to create a novel jam-packed with intrigue, puzzles, and mystery. He unravels the unique tapestry  of his novel, one colorful thread after another, teasing the brain and emotions of the reader. The unsuspecting reader reaches speeds approaching mach 1 ... with sudden drops ... narrow, steep climbs and hair-pin curves ... on this thunderous roller coaster ride of a book.<br />The main characters are, Robert Langdon, a world-reknown religous symbologist and Harvard professor, Maximillian Kohler, a research scientist and Director of CERN, one of the world's largest scientific research facilities located in Switzerland, Vittoria Vetra, a research biologist and daughter of the recently murdered, Dr. Leonardo Vetra, research physicist and Catholic priest. There is an unknown Assassin, whom we eventually learn is of Arabic extraction, the Camerlengo Carlo Ventresca, who was the chamberlain to the recently deceased Pope, several Swiss security guards for the Vatican, and two BBC reporters.<br />It begins at 5:18AM, when Robert Langdon receives a phone call from an unknown party who needs to speak to him uregntly on a matter of great importance. He dismisses it as a prank call, attributing it to the notoriety he received in the press due to his research on occult symbology. It attracts a lot of kooks. While he is drinking his morning Nestle Quik cocoa ... his fax machine rings and he receives a photo of a body with the word &quot;Illuminati&quot; is emblazoned on the chest. As he rotates the fax in his hand, he discovers an ambigram, it is readable, frontwards or upside-down and backwards ... simultaneously, the phone rings and he is drawn into the web of intrigue at the CERN.<br />The Director summons him to a research facility in Swizterland, where the victim, had done the unthinkable ... he created one of the most powerful sources of energy in the world: antimatter. Someone in the Illuminati has learned of this discovery and had stolen the specimen. The specimen was moved to an undisclosed, mysterious location in Rome, during the time when the election of the next Pope was taking place. Four cardinals, the top candidates for the election, are missing. A phone call reveals that each cardinal will be murdered, the clues are a riddle filled with Illuminati symbolology. Robert Langdon and Vittoria Vetra chase down the clues in an attempt to prevent the murders, but are too late each time. They eventually decipher the clues within the secret vaults of the the Vatican library. They chase the Assassin through a section of Rome where the Pantheon and several churches are located that contain Illuminati symbols. They go across the Bridge of Angels to the Castel Sant Angelo. Just when a hand-to-hand combat, fight to the finish between Robert Langdon and the Assassin is occurring ... more intrigue and mysteries arebeing concealed and revealed within the religous realm. The whole world is glued to the TV set as a miracle is witnessed ... the faith of many Catholics is restored ... to discover why ... you must read the book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)being concealed and revealed within the religous realm. The whole world is glued to the TV set as a miracle is witnessed ... the faith of many Catholics is restored ... to discover why ... you must read the book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-19
US	48282789	R3THL09YRM37Q3	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	67	73	N	N	Scholarly Dispassionate Treatment of a Difficult Subject	This book is a &quot;must read&quot; for anyone who seeks to learn about the similarities and differences of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. The first few chapters introduce the perception or concept of G-d as it developed in man's evolution. The core beliefs and practices of ancient religions are reviewed along with how monotheism arose. Few scholars can treat this controversial thesis without falling prey to including/expanding their own belief systems ... Ms Armstrong manages to remain cool and dispassionate. She does a thorough and detailed analysis of the philosophical and core belief systems of the three major religions of the world. She creates an impressive document detailing significant dates, events and people who had a major impact on the respective religion. She uses the correct ancient Hebrew, Greek or Islamic terms and provides translations as close to the original meaning as possible. Her words are like the lense of a telescope or microscope -- they are adjusted to convey clarity and precision. The author has no hidden agendas ... she provides only the facts.<br />Being of Christian background, I was most impressed with her discourse on the Trinity. Who but a religious scholar would have known that in the 300's A.D. the hottest religious debate raging was the controversy whether Jesus Christ was divine (G-d) and what was His relation to G-d the Father? A serious dichotomy of views arose between Athansius and Arius which caused a crisis of faith in the newly emerging Christian religion. Had it not been squelched, who knows how Christianity would be expressed today? The Emperor Constantince convened a conference of Bishops in Nicae, Turkey to settle the matter. Essentially, a committee made a religous decree but unfortuantely, it still left many questions unanswered ... questions which plague thinking Christian believers even in modern times. Ms Armstrong clarifies the matter as follows, while G-d has a single essence (ousia) which is incomprehensible to mankind, He has three expressions of Himself, hypostases, by which He is known. This is but one example of the many complex controversies tackled in this book. Both sides of many religious debates are presented and the reader realizes what a huge topic Ms Armstrong manages to present in a very engaging style. It is easy to see why religion has such a strong hold on the emotions and heart of mankind ...  The most impressive chapters for this reader pertain to the internal differences of each religion. Ms Armstrong gives a full discourse on the differences *between* each religion ... as well the the differences of core beliefs *within* each religion, be it, Christianity, Catholicism, Orthodoxy, the Protestant movement, Judaism or Islam. This reader admires how she covered the differences within Islam. Her descriptions of the split between Shiites and Sunnis, Sufi mysticism and essential leaders in each movement are most impressive. I enjoyed her discourse on Judaism and the enlightening texts of prominent Rabbis. The reader needs to keep in mind, this book is for serious readers only. Anyone who dislikes detailed analyses will not enjoy this book, as it is a challenge for even those who *do* enjoy detailed analyses. Simpler books exist for readers looking for the basic tenets describing Christianity, Judaism, or Islam. This book provides a comparative and detailed analysis of G-d as expressed in the belief systems of three major religions in the world. This is the best book I have yet discovered on this difficult, deep, and sensitive subject. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)to mankind, He has three expressions of Himself, hypostases, by which He is known. This is but one example of the many complex controversies tackled in this book. Both sides of many religious debates are presented and the reader realizes what a huge topic Ms Armstrong manages to present in a very engaging style. It is easy to see why religion has such a strong hold on the emotions and heart of mankind ...  The most impressive chapters for this reader pertain to the internal differences of each religion. Ms Armstrong gives a full discourse on the differences *between* each religion ... as well the the differences of core beliefs *within* each religion, be it, Christianity, Catholicism, Orthodoxy, the Protestant movement, Judaism or Islam. This reader admires how she covered the differences within Islam. Her descriptions of the split between Shiites and Sunnis, Sufi mysticism and essential leaders in each movement are most impressive. I enjoyed her discourse on Judaism and the enlightening texts of prominent Rabbis. The reader needs to keep in mind, this book is for serious readers only. Anyone who dislikes detailed analyses will not enjoy this book, as it is a challenge for even those who *do* enjoy detailed analyses. Simpler books exist for readers looking for the basic tenets describing Christianity, Judaism, or Islam. This book provides a comparative and detailed analysis of G-d as expressed in the belief systems of three major religions in the world. This is the best book I have yet discovered on this difficult, deep, and sensitive subject. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-16
US	48282789	RZZIREW41KRNG	0061094943	577835309	Manifest Your Destiny: The Nine Spiritual Principles for Getting Everything You Want	Books	5	30	32	N	N	The Guidebook to Success Based on Spiritual Principles	This is a \\"peak experience\\" book by this author. It shows how he has \\"arrived\\", succeeded in manifesting his destiny ... It is the culmination of all previous books written by Dr. Wayne Dwyer. He identifies the foundation of success by outlining and fusing basic principles from the Judeo-Christian perspective as well as Eastern religions and philosophies. The basics are 1) \\"becoming aware of your higher self\\". By recognizing one's connection between this world and the unseen world a person can transcend the limitations of the physical world and achieve personal goals, here and now. 2) \\"Trusting yourself is trusting in the wisdom that created you\\". In essence, to succeed and achieve anything starts with a belief and trust that it can be done. The corollaries to this are, admitting one's confusion and doubt, accepting that there is love and support because we are not alone but part of a higher divinity. Another principle is 3) recognizing the holographic nature of the universe, which means everyone is connected through the principle of consciousness and thought. Keeping one's desired manifestation secret allows less dispersal of one's personal energy to those who react and thereby direct one's energy elsewhere. Recognizing G-d's unconditional love frees a person up from becoming judgemental. You essentially become a compassionate witness to everyone and everything that is happening in your life. The source of creation is a loving peaceful energy, there is no need to force or apply pressure to this achievement. The practice of meditation is recommended to achieve harmony with the Spirit and Source of all things. He advocates the sounding of \\"om\\" in the evening and \\"ah\\" in the morning as standard rituals - highlighting that sound is the one energy in which we can participate. Dwyer states, \\"Sounds literally mold the abstract world of thought and spirit into shape.\\" [p. 113, Harper Perennial, c. 1997]. He adds, \\"Keep in mind that sound is the vibrational frequency between the world of solid matter or form as we know it and the higher vibrational frequencies of the formless world of universal spirit.\\" [p.114] Mental imagery of your desire is recommended to formulate that it is possible and already exists as real. One of the last principles is expressing gratitude and generosity after one has manifested one's desire. This last principle expands to a life of service on some level to share one's understanding, awareness, or achievement with humanity. This closes the circle of energy and love that we receive from Spirit and lets more of it manifest in the world. This book is highly recommended.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)n the world of solid matter or form as we know it and the higher vibrational frequencies of the formless world of universal spirit.\\" [p.114] Mental imagery of your desire is recommended to formulate that it is possible and already exists as real. One of the last principles is expressing gratitude and generosity after one has manifested one's desire. This last principle expands to a life of service on some level to share one's understanding, awareness, or achievement with humanity. This closes the circle of energy and love that we receive from Spirit and lets more of it manifest in the world. This book is highly recommended.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-13
US	48282789	R38A3W73VSFKVM	0451522540	285668696	41 Stories (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Humanity Revealed: With Humor and Irony	I have a smile on my face every time I finish reading a story from this book. Each story tickles my fancy ... I was sold on this volume by an amazon.com reviewer -- whose enthusiasm for O. Henry was contagious. O. Henry was one of my favorite story tellers in the past ... I am pleased to have discovered this book. It is filled with delightful and enlightening short stories about the foibles of humanity ... many are heart-warming and sensitive, many are humorous, some are serious. He has mastered the art of the \\"surprise\\" ending for which he is famous!<br />\\"The Gift of the Magi\\", \\"Brickdust Row\\", and \\"The Furnished Room\\", bring back fond memories of growing up. I remember events and characters from these stories. Each story is poignant, emotionally satisfying, and complete. O. Henry possesses an uncanny ability to hook the readers attention in the first paragraph and then keep the reader hanging on every word, anticipating what happens next ... O. Henry is the master of creating a twist to the ending ... he often throws the reader an unexpected curve. He  shows us life is *not* always what it seems.<br />In this volume, O. Henry writes about people, human reactions, culture, society, class structure and how to earn a buck, through a bit of conniving and deceit. I thoroughly enjoyed the stories which took place out West and in Central America ... they were fresh, original and well-crafted. His technical expertise as a writer, the use of words to create an impression and set up a plot are sheer genius. They demonstrate the reason for his stories are popular throughout the world. One of my  favorites is the story titled, \\"The Ethics of Pigs\\". Here is a sample of O. Henry's famous word-play: \\"Jeff is in the line of unillegal graft. He is not to be dreaded by widows and orphans; he is a reducer of surplusage. His favorite disguise is that of the target-bird at which the spend-thrift or the rockless investor may shy a few inconsequential dollars.\\" [p. 147, A Signet Classic] This book contains stories with a wide range of themes, plots, and locales. It will appeal to a large audience of readers from middle school age on up. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)c] This book contains stories with a wide range of themes, plots, and locales. It will appeal to a large audience of readers from middle school age on up. My highest recommendations. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-12
US	48282789	RQOCJ6KXFAKF0	0062506552	457642513	The Shaman's Body: A New Shamanism for Transforming Health, Relationships, and the Community	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Transforming Self via the Energy Body/Shaman's Body	Shamans are highly respected indigenous healers who most often have experienced some extraordinairy event that is symbolic of death or which was a true near-death experience which they survived. The experience \\"changed\\" them energetically to be more in touch and in tune with \\"the Unknown\\" or \\"the Great Principle of Life\\". Using myth and symbols they help guide people to develop a \\"double\\", a sense of self that is more in touch with their personal energy and personal path in life but which is independent of society, time and space. The shaman helps the person who is seeking to reclaim their 'energy' find their \\"path of heart\\" i.e, what is meaningful and important to them , in the midst of chaos and uncontrollable events in life.<br /><br />A person's 'healing' is intimately connected to their environment and the relationships within that environment.<br />In essence, it is tracking one's energy and source of power, how it is driven by events and experiences. The seeker on this path is on the quest for self-knowledge which ends ... only upon physical death.<br /><br />The author, Arnold Mindell, uses the symbols of shamanism in the manner of a psychologist who is facilitating \\"process work\\" in a client to attain personal growth. Personal development is the predecessor of everyone who uses the world \\"healer\\" or identifies with the role. Growth and learning can not occur without doubt and feelings of inferiority ... these areas need to be recognized and explored. Everyone who journeys into self - discovery becomes one of the following roles/types depending on their life situation, \\"hunter/warrior\\", \\"average man\\", or \\"seer\\". They are all ways of being and none is better than the other. He tells us, \\"Who becomes which type is not a personal choice ... but who becomes a shaman becomes a matter of dreams and heritage.\\" [Harper San Francisco, c. 1993, p. 78]. This book is about developing the \\"Shaman's Body\\" (\\"Dreaming Body\\") - which is the name for energy states or altered states of concsiousness that arise as signals, that is body symptoms, feelings, impulses, messages from the environment.<br /><br />In this book Mindell uses shamansitic terms and experiences from several sources to allow the reader to access more of one's personal energy/power and discover one's personal preferences and develoment for \\"ways of being\\". The terms he uses are based on the books by Carlos Casteneda. Mindell uses the words, personal history, path of heart, hunting, dreaming, power, the ally, courage, detachment, sorcery, and path of knowledge, all of which will guide the reader into become more focused and aware. There is \\"everyday attention\\" and there is the \\"second attention\\". This book is about developing the \\"second attention\\" which is the access to the dreaming body. The ultimate goal is to become a \\"seer', a person who has a fluid and flexible life. It is a person who walks a spiritual path in life. Erika Borsos (erikab93)states of concsiousness that arise as signals, that is body symptoms, feelings, impulses, messages from the environment.<br /><br />In this book Mindell uses shamansitic terms and experiences from several sources to allow the reader to access more of one's personal energy/power and discover one's personal preferences and develoment for \\"ways of being\\". The terms he uses are based on the books by Carlos Casteneda. Mindell uses the words, personal history, path of heart, hunting, dreaming, power, the ally, courage, detachment, sorcery, and path of knowledge, all of which will guide the reader into become more focused and aware. There is \\"everyday attention\\" and there is the \\"second attention\\". This book is about developing the \\"second attention\\" which is the access to the dreaming body. The ultimate goal is to become a \\"seer', a person who has a fluid and flexible life. It is a person who walks a spiritual path in life. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-10
US	48282789	R13J6Z1KM16633	0893341045	36352804	The Tao of Relationships: A Balancing of Man and Woman	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Unraveling the Confusion but Maintaining the Mystery	Most people have heard of the opposite energies, called yin and yang. Although, commonly translated as male and female energies, they can also be viewed as push and pull, or negative and positive dualities that, when understood thoroughly, can be balanced to achieve harmony ... and a sense of unity or completeness. This book explores the mystery of the union of these energies in terms of male and female relationships. However, anyone thinking this is a manual for physical union should look elsewhere. This book is about the philosophical basis to imbalances. It provides a means or method to achieve a more balanced outlook and awareness.<br />Ray Grigg, the author, covers a lot of territory in the introduction alone. Although the book is about &quot;love&quot;, the word love is never mentioned. When there is disharmony, there exists the feeling of loss, the giving away of energy without reciprocation, the lack of equality. In Chinese, the word, te, refers to &quot;power&quot; but not in the Western sense, it means something like virtue/power, where one loses or comes into balance with &quot;what is&quot; or the Tao, the natural flow of life ... When that is out of kilter --- so is the rest of your life. This book in essence is about the &quot;dance of energy&quot; between yin and yang. There is no real resolution to the opposites ...  the dance is on-going ... there is a constant coming together in harmony and then a separtion of energies ... or coming apart. Adjusting ourselves to this wave-like exchange of energies ... not getting stuck in one phase or the other is the secret to a harmonious relationship. It is not necessarily a linear process ... It is a spiritual quest ... Sometimes, one must just take the plunge and experience the awakening of desire, of freedom without boundaries, of the accompanying confusion that arises, the awkwardness of imbalance and the resolution of opposite energies.<br />This book has extraordinairy translations ... that are not expounded upon or explained. They are left for the reader to ponder, determine if they are helpful and apply within their own life. There are beautiful drawings which illustrate, very simply, the concept or idea within the text. The drawings are elegant and profound ... each text has a heading which grips the reader's attention. The headings alone are pregnant with potential meaning. For example, &quot;secret meeting secret&quot;, &quot;undivided silence&quot;, &quot;let the changing change&quot;, &quot;a special kind of keeping&quot;, &quot;ocean womb&quot;, &quot;in the very center of now&quot;, &quot;trunk and roots of words&quot;, &quot;so much is found&quot;, &quot;primal dark&quot;, and &quot;the primal is tamed&quot;. This book rceives my highest recommendations for people daring to explore their own personal nature (energy) and then connect with &quot;the other&quot; or someone with an opposite nature (energy). Erika Borsos (erikab93)ed upon or explained. They are left for the reader to ponder, determine if they are helpful and apply within their own life. There are beautiful drawings which illustrate, very simply, the concept or idea within the text. The drawings are elegant and profound ... each text has a heading which grips the reader's attention. The headings alone are pregnant with potential meaning. For example, &quot;secret meeting secret&quot;, &quot;undivided silence&quot;, &quot;let the changing change&quot;, &quot;a special kind of keeping&quot;, &quot;ocean womb&quot;, &quot;in the very center of now&quot;, &quot;trunk and roots of words&quot;, &quot;so much is found&quot;, &quot;primal dark&quot;, and &quot;the primal is tamed&quot;. This book rceives my highest recommendations for people daring to explore their own personal nature (energy) and then connect with &quot;the other&quot; or someone with an opposite nature (energy). Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-03-04
US	48282789	R269DF0GCIKD9G	0060637242	607781242	The Art of Living: Vipassana Meditation	Books	5	52	56	N	N	Most Essential  Method Providing Pos Results [if applied]	S.N. Goenka was a businessman who suffered from migraine headaches. He turned to meditation as taught by the Buddhist community in Burma. He relieved his symptoms and embarked on the journey to share the successful technique of Vipassana meditation with others. What a magnaninous gift! Basically, this book, written by one of his students, teaches one how to be &quot;aware&quot; and track the thoughts which arise and ultimately are the root cause of one's negative feelings, i.e. suffering. Since all thoughts arise and diminish, it is a matter of *not* forcing or trying to change things as they are ... but instead to *observe*, witness what is truly happening. In and of itself, sounds simple enough ... but anyone who knows what sitting still and quieting the mind is like ... will tell you ... *not* so simple or as easy as it sounds. The book concerns itself with &quot;ultimate reality&quot; which we all share. It concerns itself with the part we play in this world and where our happiness resides ... To quote the Buddha: &quot;If with a pure heart you speak or act, then happiness follows you as a shadow that never departs.&quot; [p. 37, Harper SanFrancisco, c. 1987]<br />William Hart the author covers basic Buddhist concepts of the cause of suffering, training of moral conduct, right behavior, training of concentration, training of wisdom, training of equanimity, right thought, right understanding, eradicating old conditioning, and penetrating ultimate truth ... He does a superb job of clearly articulating basic principles of the Buddhist viewpoint. He provides techniques for developing awareness and thereby more happiness in one's life. In conclusion, another quote from the Budda (who said it best) ...&quot;When faced with all the ups and downs of life, still the mind remains unshaken, not lamenting, not generating defilements, always feeling secure, that is the greatest happiness&quot;. [p. 125, Harper San Francisco, c. 1987 from Sutta Nipata II. Maha-Magala Sutta] This book is highly recommended for anyone seeking a technique to enrich one's life. Erika Borsos {erikab93}his book is highly recommended for anyone seeking a technique to enrich one's life. Erika Borsos {erikab93}	2004-03-03
US	48282789	R3264AV6PNAH3Z	0452281997	389074630	The Tao of Inner Peace	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Practical Applications of Ancient Wisdom Principles	Diane Dreher takes on a daunting task ... teaching modern human beings how to live a more harmonious life  ... using ancient Chinese texts written by Lao Tzu. She does an admirable job and achieves her goal ... for the highly motivated reader. First, the book is divided into sections that cover the concepts in a logical sequence. Her divisions are I. &quot;The Way: Then and Now&quot;, II. &quot;The Inner Way&quot;, III. &quot;The Way of Nature&quot;, IV. &quot;The Way of Life, and V. &quot;The Way of Peace&quot;. I like how she starts each chapter with a translation of a specific Chinese quote which illusatrates the concepts and principles to be covered in the chapter. She amplifies the meaning of the text, bringing it up to date for modern consumption. The goal of her book is to help the reader become a &quot;Tao person&quot; defined as &quot;someone who recognizes and works with the patterns of nature.&quot; {p. 5, Harper Perennial Paperback, c. 1990]<br />I feel her book is very helpful but more so for readers already familiar with the ideas and concepts of creating harmony with individuals and groups. Readers who have already immersed themselves with many of the principles would benefit more from her explanations and in depth analyses. Her everyday examples are very excellent. They are a guide on how to apply the principles to commone situations. No one need feel she is providing an inflexible unalterable route &quot;from here to there&quot;. She does not do this ... she covers concepts and principles related to leadership, cooperation, judgements, fragmentation, transcending dualism, centering one's self, embracing the shadow, service to others, problem solving and cycles, timing and readiness, consensus/ group goals, personal power and process improvement. It is a principle based book and therefore some recognition and familiarity with the basic concepts is required for the reader to apply the teaching in their own environment. This is not a step by step technical manual -- there is no such thing.<br />The reader needs to be aware that life is dynamic and flowing, with energy shifts. Knowing everyone has personal preferences  and patterns of behavior which are predictable but nonetheless changing ... learning to align one's self with the Tao will help create more inner and outer harmony, therefore more winners than losers. This book is highly recommended for those willing to explore personal energy and group energy along with the dynamics of success and failure. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ical manual -- there is no such thing.<br />The reader needs to be aware that life is dynamic and flowing, with energy shifts. Knowing everyone has personal preferences  and patterns of behavior which are predictable but nonetheless changing ... learning to align one's self with the Tao will help create more inner and outer harmony, therefore more winners than losers. This book is highly recommended for those willing to explore personal energy and group energy along with the dynamics of success and failure. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-28
US	48282789	R1NCF43JI76TPZ	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Civil War Epic - Survival of Body, Mind and Spirit	Charles Frazier has penned a novel within the Civil war setting ... which contains so much heart-felt emotion that its popularity is achieving &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot; proportions. The essence of its appeal is the writing style of the author. He creates imagery and visual landscapes with words in a lyrical poetic style. He captures the reverential and popular vernacular of the era. He builds characters that are life-like and believable as if he were relating a biographical experience. His use of similes, metaphors and symbols are sublte and highly effective. The titles of each chapter provide a glimpse of the literary genius of this author ... &quot;shadow of a crow&quot;, &quot;the ground beneath her hands&quot;, &quot;verbs, all of them tiring&quot;, and &quot;ashes of roses&quot; -- all masterpieces. He relates the stark naked beauty of the Blue Ridge Mountains, as if one were breathing the chilly misty morning air and touching the cool morning dew shimmering on the leaves of trees. He describes the life of the mountain people, capturing their courage and noble spirit. He does not spare us the harsh realities created by destruction and the resulting privation.<br />The story begins when Inman, a soldier, is recovering in a Confederate hospital from nearly fatal wounds. He  reflects on the changes war has wrought on his personality, his view of life, and how this would affect his future with Ada, his beloved sweetheart left behind in Cold Mountain, NC. As he recovers, he relives how they met and how their attraction for each other blossomed. During his recovery, he decides he can not kill any longer. Thus begins his long journey, trek back to his home. Along the way, he meets many unusual characters, all believable, who express their survival mechanisms in a variety of ways. The chapters alternate, between Inman's journey and adventures, returning to his beloved Cold Mountain, along with Ada's life, which is a struggle, to learn skills for which she is ill-prepared, cooking, farming, gardening, animal husbandry. She was a classically educated young lady with a certain near upper crust breeding. Fortunately she is befriended by a North Carolina mountain-girl native, who meets her on an equal level where through mutual agreement --- they meet each other's needs. Ruby is a hard-working farmer girl, who possesses the practical skills and physical endurance to make a farm become productive.<br />Especially moving was a description how the self-taught fiddle (violin) player Stobrod, who also made his own violin, played music for a young dying girl, as her spirit ebbed and was leaving her physical body. He tried to slow down dance tunes to fit the occasion but just could not create a sluggish enough tempo. The girl was pleased with his playing and asked him for another but he played his full repertoire and knew no more. She challenged him to create a tune for her ... with the question,  Have you never tackled it before? To which he replied, No. She said, &quot;Best go at it. Time's short.&quot; The melody, mood, drones, and double stops he created caused the girl's mother to burst into tears ... it was a haunting tune in the Phrygian mode. The girl told him it ws the finest tune she ever heard, to which Stobrod modestly replied, &quot;It wasn't neither.&quot; There are so many 'stories within stories' in each chapter it would be pointelss to describe more ... The book needs to be read for its imagery, charcterizations, and plot along with the many side stories of events which occur both to Inman on his trek while homeward bound and to Ada, as she and Ruby learn new skills and endure many hardships in their courageous struggle to survive.<br />I will state I saw the film, &quot;Cold Mountain&quot; first and was moved to tears at least on three occasions based on that I was compelled to read the book. To my delight I discovered the film  completely captured the author's words and intentions. My highest accolades to the author for writing such a deeply penetrating, soul searching and heart wrenching book. My highest praise to the film makers for keeping it true to the essence of the written word. Although, there are many more events described in the book which could *not* possibly be shown on film due to limitations of time ... a one and a half to two hours viewing... the film altered very little of the spirit and actual events depicted in the novel. This novel should not be a fast read ... it should be savored and enjoyed ... giving free range to the mind and emotions as they are deeply affected by each chapter. Erika Borsos (erikab93)or writing such a deeply penetrating, soul searching and heart wrenching book. My highest praise to the film makers for keeping it true to the essence of the written word. Although, there are many more events described in the book which could *not* possibly be shown on film due to limitations of time ... a one and a half to two hours viewing... the film altered very little of the spirit and actual events depicted in the novel. This novel should not be a fast read ... it should be savored and enjoyed ... giving free range to the mind and emotions as they are deeply affected by each chapter. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-14
US	48282789	R7LUUI57VWJFO	0762413360	489230711	Voices Of Ireland: Classic Writings Of A Rich And Rare Land	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Literary Brilliance from the 17th C. to 20th C.	Malachy McCourt created a wonderful compilation of Irish classical writing. This book reveals one of Ireland's finest treasures ... its literature and dazzling writers. Often this Irish \\"traditon\\" is pushed aside by the headlines that shout about the political and religious conflicts. The literary geniuses are *both* men and women who are recognized in this volume by their carefully selected classic writing to be world class authors ... authors who give Ireland permanent status as an artistic and creative society.<br />Jonathan Swift, famous for his book, \\"Gulliver's Travels\\", was a genuine humanitarian who wrote a tongue-in-cheek satire, a short story titled, \\"A Modest Proposal\\" which was absolutely shocking in its day -- but which brought much needed attention to the plight of poor children who were starving. In short, he proposed all the valid reasons they should be fed, housed and clothed ... so as to be a delicacy, a meal for the wealthy, who feed, house and otherwise treat their animals and live-stock better than they do human beings. Another very important piece of literature is \\"Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasantry\\" by William Carleton. He provides true descriptions of the peasant life of the 18th C. ... we learn of feuds between families, the reaction of a clan when one of their members is murdered, the funeral and keening, along with the customs of the times, and even the burial. The importance of the Catholic clergy, the role they play in village life, and the influence they have over the people is detailed. Another entertaining piece is the abduction of a school master from a neighboring village ... a town went to this extreme to provide education for their children, something very highly valued and respected. Carleton's writing is filled with the Irish brogue and use of language by the common people which makes you feel you are living within that century and experiencing the customs, traditons and life-style of that era.<br />So far, my favorite writing is what would be a best selling novel, surely in the top 10 on the New York Times list ... \\"Uncle Silas: A Tale of Bartram-Haugh\\" by Joseph Sheridan LeFanu. This literary masterpiece, contains a heroine, Maud Ruthyn, whose father dies, and leaves her in the care o her guardian Uncle Silas. He is a recluse and mysterous because there was an unexplained death which occured many years ago nin his mansion, considered a suicide but rumors still circulate if it wasn't really a murder. This novella includes, a rogueish male cousin, who is a reckless playboy ... a handsome rich widower ... a talkative free-spirited cousin Monica ... and a tom-boyish female cousin, the daughter of Uncle Silas. There is an educated, highly cultured French governess -- who is a bit creepy and sinster at times ... The characters, plot, mystery and story-line are all superbly written as suspense builds. It is a non-stop page-turning novella that grabs the reader's attention and will not let it go until the end. This story has all the ingredients for an Academy award winning film ...<br />I love short stories and literature which depicts tradition, culture and the past ... this book meets my definition of a \\"great book\\". Malachy McCourt chose the stories and poems in this book with serious consideraton. The writing spans over 200 of Irish literature -- it even includes selected poems by Oscar Wilde and William Butler Yeats. In the category of world literature, the Irish have proven to be gold medal winners.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)iting is what would be a best selling novel, surely in the top 10 on the New York Times list ... \\"Uncle Silas: A Tale of Bartram-Haugh\\" by Joseph Sheridan LeFanu. This literary masterpiece, contains a heroine, Maud Ruthyn, whose father dies, and leaves her in the care o her guardian Uncle Silas. He is a recluse and mysterous because there was an unexplained death which occured many years ago nin his mansion, considered a suicide but rumors still circulate if it wasn't really a murder. This novella includes, a rogueish male cousin, who is a reckless playboy ... a handsome rich widower ... a talkative free-spirited cousin Monica ... and a tom-boyish female cousin, the daughter of Uncle Silas. There is an educated, highly cultured French governess -- who is a bit creepy and sinster at times ... The characters, plot, mystery and story-line are all superbly written as suspense builds. It is a non-stop page-turning novella that grabs the reader's attention and will not let it go until the end. This story has all the ingredients for an Academy award winning film ...<br />I love short stories and literature which depicts tradition, culture and the past ... this book meets my definition of a \\"great book\\". Malachy McCourt chose the stories and poems in this book with serious consideraton. The writing spans over 200 of Irish literature -- it even includes selected poems by Oscar Wilde and William Butler Yeats. In the category of world literature, the Irish have proven to be gold medal winners.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-13
US	48282789	R32ZLLUQ3QFLTA	0394716094	681596631	Psychotherapy East and West	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Classic Comparison of Two Roads to One Destination	The ultimate goal is freedom, self-expression, &amp; authenticity in the world we occupy. Alan W. Watts compares the Chinese/Buddhist approach and modern Western psychological techniques for developing a clear consciousness and insight into behavior, life, and relationships. The psychological double-bind is examined via the roles and expectations of society. Buddhist techniques for liberation and Western psychological techniques are explored ... most telling is the discourse that one needs &quot;to escape the therapist's trap&quot; [p. 184, c.1961 Pantheon Books] plus, &quot;social authority contains a contradiction from which natural authority is free, and self-contradiction so basic that its perpetuation must destroy society and drive men to madness&quot;.  Yet, Watts acknowledges that separation from society, with emphasis on individual uniqueness, is to a great extent, a mistake. The more one explores human behavior, the discovery is made that the individual is connected with and part of the whole be it society, the world, or LIFE. The interconnectedness of everything becomes apparent. It is the relationship of patterns which makes a person a whole human being. This recognition of belonging, helps dissolve the boundaries of the ego and makes a person feel less trapped and free. The ultimate parodox is ... the individual obtains freedom, by the awakening that he/she belongs ... Classic Buddhist conundrums are viewed through the author's eyes. Emotional traps set by Western society are explored. Alan W. Watts provides an excellent discourse on the paths to liberation and the emotional ties which bind people into feeling limited, and unfulfilled as well as a methodology to escape the traps. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-09
US	48282789	R1F127HXQGOCIO	0312161255	70104525	A History of Slovakia: The Struggle for Survival	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Overview of Nation-building/ Survival in a Volatile Region	My desire to learn about this obscure Central European country over-rode my hesitancy ... a hesitancy which stemmed from potentially being over-whelmed with names, dates, and historical events of which I knew litte. Not being a historical buff yet wanting to learn, I forged ahead. Fortunately, the writing style of the author allayed my concerns with the first few chapters which set the pace for a comfortable reading experience.<br />Starting at the beginning, Greater Moravia was the region's name in the 900s (A.D) which was a vassal of the German Frankish empire. The Slavic nobles and people resented this relationship from which territorial disputes arose along with new winners. The area was called Pannonia under the Roman Empire. In 907 A.D. the Magyar tribes conquered the ruling German Franks. The Magyars settled in the region, having an intimate relationship with the Slovaks until the 20th century. Of note, the Slovaks maintained their Slavic language and culture despite this apparent and at times very real domination by another people. Under the Magyars, there was a form of autonomy allowing the separate culture to propigate. Numerous monarchs rose to power and forged political alliances adding to the volatility of the region. The future survival of both Hungary and Slovakia were placed constantly at risk. The author does a superb job of describing political decisions and alliances which affected the direction of the future -- which form the basis of current events. During the Middle Ages, various wars with the Germans and Mongolian invaders eventually brought the reigning Hungarian monarchs to the forefront of both countries. The Ottoman victory in Mohacs, Hungary in 1526 led to the partition of Hungary. Under conditions of this defeat, the Hapsburg monarchy with its absolutist policies, rose to rule over the Hungarians and Slovaks. Catholicism attempted to limit effects of the Reformation and its open ideas toward religion and education which spread despite opposition. While the Slovak political history mirrored that of the Hungarians, the differences in language and culture developed side by side rather peacefully for approximately 800 - 900 years. However, the revolutionary years of the late 1840s changed that. When the Magyars became more nationalistic, the Slovaks became marginalized which forced them to yearn for and develop a foundation for a country of their own. The book does a highly credible job in describing the creation of Czechoslovakia and the international milieu in which this major world event occured. The social, economic, and political policies of the 1930s and 1940s up until World War II are well discussed.  The rise of Communism post World War II mimics that of the other defeated nations in Central and Eastern Europe. Kirschbaum states it best, &quot;they became trapped in the bipolar struggle between the Western liberal democratic world and the eastern proletarian Communist one.&quot; [p.231] The defeat of Communism, from the ashes of which arose ... a separate country, called Slovakia  ... is one of the major success stories of modern times in Europe.<br />This book is highly recommended reading for anyone who has an interest in the politics of Central Europe and how struggles for domination affected the region. It would also be of interest to anyone who has roots and family ties to the area. The book is a well written scholarly document that includes a detailed and lengthy bibliography for each chapter. Anyone wanting to verify facts, delve deeper into the subject or pursue their own research is given a map to reach their destination. Erika Borsos (erikab93)position. While the Slovak political history mirrored that of the Hungarians, the differences in language and culture developed side by side rather peacefully for approximately 800 - 900 years. However, the revolutionary years of the late 1840s changed that. When the Magyars became more nationalistic, the Slovaks became marginalized which forced them to yearn for and develop a foundation for a country of their own. The book does a highly credible job in describing the creation of Czechoslovakia and the international milieu in which this major world event occured. The social, economic, and political policies of the 1930s and 1940s up until World War II are well discussed.  The rise of Communism post World War II mimics that of the other defeated nations in Central and Eastern Europe. Kirschbaum states it best, &quot;they became trapped in the bipolar struggle between the Western liberal democratic world and the eastern proletarian Communist one.&quot; [p.231] The defeat of Communism, from the ashes of which arose ... a separate country, called Slovakia  ... is one of the major success stories of modern times in Europe.<br />This book is highly recommended reading for anyone who has an interest in the politics of Central Europe and how struggles for domination affected the region. It would also be of interest to anyone who has roots and family ties to the area. The book is a well written scholarly document that includes a detailed and lengthy bibliography for each chapter. Anyone wanting to verify facts, delve deeper into the subject or pursue their own research is given a map to reach their destination. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-09
US	48282789	RO2Q3QHDRIBGP	0060674695	842094163	The Tao Is Silent	Books	5	23	24	N	N	&quot;The Tao is Silent&quot; but I am not ... so please read on	This book is a set of insightful reflections on Taoist philosophy and zen statements written by (of all people) a mathematical logician. The author provides the reader many serious and even humorous discourses about life and the path we choose to live. It is filled with amazing logic that is applied to the Taoist statements which become more clear and precise ... from this perspective.<br />Here is the approach the author takes: he describes how the Tao is formless, it is silent, it is vague, it does not command and does not argue ... He then discusses how the Tao can be proven to 'exist'. He delves into why the Tao is spontaneous and how it manages to remain leisurely, too. There are discussions on selfishness, altruism, &quot;trusting one's true nature&quot;, &quot;letting things go their own way&quot; vs  &quot;on making an effort&quot; adn &quot;on the art of management&quot;. One of the shortest but most erudite chapters is entitled, &quot;abiding in the Tao&quot;. The Taoist abides in the Tao not becasue it is his duty, nor because he is commanded to, neither is he afraid of the Tao ... he does so ... because &quot;he loves to&quot;. While the true Tao is nameless, the Tao that is named, becomes the &quot;Mother of all beings&quot;. Also, Smullyan tells us, &quot;this unnamed Tao is more serene, 'more truly itself' than the named Tao.&quot;<br />This book does not take a conventional approach to describing Taoist philosophy, instead through the author's particular unique lense we get insight into this paradoxical subject. The book is replete with examples of Taoist and Zen sayings and logical comparisons which enhance the author's viewpoint of life. Reading this book is a pleasant experience for anyone wanting to explore how Chinese philosophy relates to life. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-06
US	48282789	R3USI5ASVP8Y4B	0877736871	978065405	Cultivating Stillness: A Taoist Manual for Transforming Body and Mind	Books	5	87	88	N	N	Ancient Chinese &quot;Secrets&quot; Revealed - For Those Who Are Ready	This book is based on an ancient Taoist text written by Lao Tzu. It is about changing oneself ... creating and maintaining internal harmony, despite external circumstances. Due to its esoteric nature, i.e., internal alchemy ... the author, a Chinese American, was guided by a Taoist master when learning from the original text. With this book, the author becomes our very own &quot;master&quot;, as she guides us in understanding the path to &quot;cultivating stillness.&quot;<br />One gets a good description of the Chinese philosophy and underpinnings of the text via a wonderful explanation of the symbols ... we learn about the I Ching, the three treasures, the stove and the cauldron, microcosmic circulation, and cleansing all of which occur within the twelve terrestrial branches. We learn of the symbolism of &quot;the Golden Raven, &quot;the Jade Rabbit&quot;,&quot;the Golden Palace&quot;, &quot;the North Sea&quot;, &quot;the Winding River&quot;, and &quot;the Southern Mountain.&quot; Using breath as the catalyst, the student will eventually experience the regeneration of personal energy into vital energy ...  The state of &quot;wang chi&quot;, the intermediate state between &quot;wu chi&quot; and &quot;tai chi&quot; is discussed. We learn, &quot;wu chi&quot; is the state of the Void, or Tao. We learn, &quot;tai chi&quot;, is the state of differentiating yin and yang, when yin encompasses yang, and yang encompasses yin. On many levels this is a complex book. However, if the reader wants to learn Chinese philosophy, the accompanying symbolism, as well as how this knowledge can transform the human spirit this book is definitely the place to start.<br />This is a poetry book, a book of free verse, filled with statements by Lao Tzu which precede each chapter. On another level, it is a depth psychology book for the reader who applies some of the techniques in learning about themselves. On yet a separate level, it is a history book about how the Chinese philosophers, primarily Lao Tzu, viewed mankind and the universe ... a place of energy and form, in an eternal dance ... and lastly, it is an artistic book, filled with wonderful explanations about Chinese ideagrams. Although it is a highly complex read, therefore not for everyone, it is a thoroughly enjoyable book for those who are patience and interested in experiencing a unique culture and understanding its viewpoint. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ly Lao Tzu, viewed mankind and the universe ... a place of energy and form, in an eternal dance ... and lastly, it is an artistic book, filled with wonderful explanations about Chinese ideagrams. Although it is a highly complex read, therefore not for everyone, it is a thoroughly enjoyable book for those who are patience and interested in experiencing a unique culture and understanding its viewpoint. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-05
US	48282789	R38IYPNCWNDE3H	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Start  Where Ever You Are ... You Are Here Now ... Read On	This book  ... of all books about Zen, makes it perfectly clear that the whole purpose of Zen is to help you see reality more clearly ... that is all. However, *that* is saying a lot ...<br />One of the interesting features of this book is the author was a direct descendent of the 13th C. spiritual master, Dogen. However, the author does not write based on this relationship -- instead, he writes based on his *experience*. The book is well organized into three parts, &quot;Right Practice&quot; (action) and &quot;Right Attitude&quot; (frame of mind) adn &quot;Right Understanding&quot; (self-explanatory). The author describes how posture, control, breathing, mind waves and mind weeds affect our reality when practicing 'zazen'. No matter what arises in the mind we need to continue our efforts ... the power lies in our ability &quot;to accept things as they are, whether agreeable or disagreeable.&quot; This is one huge pronouncement ...<br />While it is considered &quot;nothing special&quot; to meditate in this manner ... the ability to track one's mind and release duality occurs with &quot;right practice.&quot; Repetition and maintaining a &quot;single-mindedness&quot; is the effort that brings results --&quot;cultivating one's spirit&quot; one can attain equanimity and overcome many obstacles.. The overall effect is to communicate and express one's self from a point of truth. One begins to realize how effort, energy, and outcome arise from moment to moment ... *IF* there is a sense of being driven to attain &quot;enlightenment&quot;, perhaps, the practice driven by &quot;karma&quot; and one is wasting their time. The direction of effort needs to be pointed within ... developing readiness, mindfulness, without a true sense of a goal. It is difficult but that seems to be the true art of zen practice. Discovering a weed is a treasure for zen students ... because that is an opportunity for learning and growth to occur. Highly recommended book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-05
US	48282789	R39T1XMASUZIJQ	0802130550	760708497	An Introduction to Zen Buddhism	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Drink of Water for  a Thirsty Man in the Desert	Amazingly my volume of this book was published in 1964 and looking at the preface, the book was created from articles written in Japan in 1914 ... The author states if he can lead the reader to study more of his work he has achieved his goal. This volume will serve to quench the thirst and hunger of any reader who is interested in Zen and it will lead one to try to understand more of the concepts associated with this experience.<br />The introduction is written by Dr. Carl Gustav Jung, who tells us, that the oriental concepts of Tao, satori, and the Buddhist concept of kamma are so different from Western ideas that it is difficult to translate. Yet he gives his highest recommendations to this volume -- no small matter, from one such as he is... a world famous psychiatrist and psychologist. The Zen texts say &quot;enlightenment&quot; is a natural occurence, and that it is a state of insight into the nature of self. Jung tells us it is a state of &quot;spiritual reality&quot;, that 'satori' is a psychic occurence. It is a state of 'seeing things differently', a state of &quot;consciousness of the consciousness&quot; ... It is associated with &quot;becoming whole&quot; ... a spiritual experience that is part of consciousness ... but more expansive. Jung considers it is duty to tell Westerners -- it is &quot;the longest of roads&quot; -- &quot;difficulties strew the path&quot; -- &quot;trodden by only a few of our great men&quot; -- it remains for most -- &quot;a beacon on a high mountain, shining out in a haze future&quot;. [p.27]<br />D.T. Suzuki in his &quot;Preliminary&quot; describes the two paths of Buddhism, the Lesser Vehicle and Higher Vehicle. &quot;Personal experience is everything in Zen.&quot; [p.33]&quot;No amount of meditation will keep Zen in one place.&quot; [p.41] He provides chapters on &quot;nihilistic zen&quot;, &quot;illogical zen&quot;, and &quot;zen a higher affirmation&quot;. Practical zen, koans, and acquiring '&quot;satori&quot; or a new viewpoint' are well documented with fine examples. For a book of *only* 132 pages the breadth, width and depth of detail is astonishing. The author proves to be a master of his subject, indeed, no one else can whet the appetite of a beginner and have them searching to know more. This is the best gift a writer can provide -- this author provides us his *very* *best*. Erika Borsos (erikab93)oint' are well documented with fine examples. For a book of *only* 132 pages the breadth, width and depth of detail is astonishing. The author proves to be a master of his subject, indeed, no one else can whet the appetite of a beginner and have them searching to know more. This is the best gift a writer can provide -- this author provides us his *very* *best*. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-02-03
US	48282789	R1ROEF0BLYS5PL	0877281823	202506143	The Zen Doctrine of No Mind	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Definitive Classic on Zen Technique/Psychology	D.T. Suzuki writes very clearly what many who preceded him have stated, &quot;the zen doctrine states there is no enlightenment to attain&quot; ... The reader then is left to ponder, why buy the book? The answer is deceptively simple, maybe it is too simple ... perhaps to get insight into one's own mind and how it works.<br />The classic conundrum for human beings is -- seeing and understanding &quot;the simple things&quot;. We create meandering pathways in our minds and attach emotions to these thoughts -- then we attach feelings to those thoughts -- we follow the thoughts and feelings believing that what we think is reality itself. Thinking is not the same as reality!<br />Three sentences from this extraordinairy book illustrate my point. &quot;As the attainment of the Tao does not involve a continuous movement from error to truth, from ignorance to enlightenment, from 'mayori' to 'satori', the Zen masters all proclaim there is no enlightenment whatsoever, which you can claim to have attained.&quot; [p.53] &quot;The doctrine of the Unconcsious as expounded here is, psychologically translated, that of absolute passivity or absolute obedience. It may also be translated as the teaching of humility.&quot; [p.67] This should serve to whet the appetite of those who are on the road to self-discovery ... for anyone else the book is useless. Erika Borsos (erikab93)(revised)	2004-01-31
US	48282789	R2PHJ2JSLNC0JQ	0312158955	721791888	A Concise Historical Atlas of Eastern Europe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Changing Shape of E. Europe - Superb Scholarly Overview	Hupchick and Cox provide a stunning array of maps from the late Roman Empire (300 AD) all the way up to the modern era, 1991. Most importantly, on the page opposite the map, they provide a one page historical summary  of events and changes which occured at the time the map was current. You get insight into the changing size and shape of many countries, from the Balkans and Greece, through Romania and Hungary, up to and including Poland, with a little bit of information about Byelorussia and the Ukraine. There is a precise synopsis of what changes occured. There is a great map showing the migration of the Slavic peoples into their respective current homelands. You get a good understanding of basic European history, such as how the brothers Cyril and Melodius, two missionaries traveled and devised a written alphabet for the Slavic people. You discover how Boris of Bulgaria in 865 AD decided to convert to Christianity to become part of the European Christian community and the reason, to stave off invasion by the Franks and to prevent extermination by Byzantium. The rise of Hungary, in the 10th - 13th century, is described along with a map of &quot;Greater Hungary&quot; (&quot;Nagy Magyarorszag&quot;) of the past. We learn how King St. Laszlo supported the papacy for protection and also conquered Croatia-Slavonia and Bosnia ... gaining access to the Adriatic Sea. The rise and decline of the Ottoman Empire and the great nationalism which developed during the 19th century is fully revealed.<br />This book should be required reading for anyone wanting to come to grips with &quot;the Macedonian question&quot; and understand some of the reasons behind the Balkan Wars. This book holds the key to understanding the roots of modern day conflicts within Central, Eastern Europe and the Balkans. The Trianon Treaty which divided Hungary and isolated the Magyars in Transylvania from their nation post World War I is reviewed from a just and fair perspective.<br />The book is written for scholars, as well as the public at large. It provides a concise and superb overview of the most important details of issues which  haunt this region of the world. Anyone looking for a good summary of the reasons behind the changing face and shape of Europe, anyone needing to know about the wars and conflicts which are the backbone of the political and historical problems existing today should buy this book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)or scholars, as well as the public at large. It provides a concise and superb overview of the most important details of issues which  haunt this region of the world. Anyone looking for a good summary of the reasons behind the changing face and shape of Europe, anyone needing to know about the wars and conflicts which are the backbone of the political and historical problems existing today should buy this book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-01-31
US	48282789	R27AJGAHHWJMML	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Panoramic, Historical, & Suspenseful Quest for "Secrets"	Anyone who read \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" by Dan Brown would benefit from reading this unusual book that researches the themes and topics which made \\"Da Vinci Code\\" such a hot best-seller ...<br />The Knights Templar and their secret ceremonies, the \\"Rose Croix\\", i.e., the \\"Rosicrusican organiztion\\", \\"the Priere de Sion\\" who are believed to be behind the activities of these \\"fighters for justice\\", the Cathars, Secrets from Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem, the list of Grand Masters, secret parchments and headstones of graves with encrypted messages, possible information about the origins of Christianity and what really happened during and after the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ, actions taken by the Catholic Church in the early years and during its delineation of religious doctrine --- can anyone unravel the mysteries and secrets contained within? Knowing that these organizations and secrets have remained *exactly* *that*, \\"secret\\" for about 2,000 years or likely much longer ... dating back from ancient Egypt -- the intrigue and allure of the possible revelations ... contained within this book just grow more mysterious and enticing ...<br />This book begins with a mystery of its own, it grabs the readers attention and is the hook that keeps you hanging in there. At times, \\"hanging\\" is the operative word because the long list of names and places which are needed to provide authenticaiton become tedious reading indeed. Through no fault of the authors, there is a great deal of detail, these details add up to repeatable research for anyone who has the time and inclination to delve further into the subject for themselves. First, the \\"hook\\" --- the story of Berenger Sauniere, a parish priest from a tiny village in Rennes-le-Chateau discovers parchments, old documents, and mysterious headstones during the renovation of the old church. The documents are passed on to the local Bishop who passes them up the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, some of whom meet with Sauniere. After this point the priest begins to show signs of wealth and starts living a more lavish life-style, also consorts with people who have esoteric knowledge and interests. After his sudden death from a stroke, an odd death cermony occured where the priest was seated in an unusual garb, a robe with tassles, and unidentified mourners who attended, plucked a tassle off the robe as they bid hin adieu into the next world ... Sauniere's housekeeper received some knowledge of a \\"secret\\" which she was going to confide, but she too died before it was revealed. After their deaths, many questions arose pertaining to their odd activiites, the discovered encrypted messages, and the source of their wealth -- the belief was that they discovered \\"hidden treasure\\" which was taken by the Knights Templars from the Temple in Jerusalem during the Crusades. Yet, there was more than this to consider, what messages were disguised by encrption? These authors have been researching this subject for over 30 years. In 1972, when the authors made their first film, it was about the basic story as described above about the parish priest in France and the mysterious discovery he made, as well as the unusual activities he engaged in ... After it was shown on British television, they received a huge deluge of correspondence -- one of from a retired Anglican priest, had the oddest but most preposterous claim of all, that it was *not* gold or jewels which was the treasure of the Knights Templar, but \\"incontrovertible proof\\" that Jesus survived the Crucifixion ... that it was a fraud. The authors turned their quest in another direction --- researching another claim, that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene, and they had children. They examined the legend which states Mary Magdalene and her children by Jesus arrived in France, sometime after the Crucifixion ... and are related by blood to the old Merovingian dynasty, who became kings and queens in France. Therefore, the quest for the \\"Holy Grail\\" is not a physical item, such as the cup from which Christ drank but is instead, the quest for the \\"san greal\\", \\"sang royal\\" ... that is \\"royal blood\\". Jesus having descended from King David of ancient Israel, is of royal blood. The final and last secret is that there are today blood relatives living who are related to Jesus in France ... of course, this claim is based on a lot of \\"ifs\\".<br />I enjoyed this book for the many questions it raised and the many avenues of research the authors took to arrive at information. They name names, the provide a list of genealogical dynasties, they provide information about places, temples, monuments,gravestones, mysterious paintings and messages contained within them -- which can  all be examined. One  reason this book is so fascinating is the assertion and conclusions the authors arrive at --- is not \\"cut and dry\\", \\"black and white\\", since there is no solid and authentic document that can be dated and with total certainty to \\"prove\\" the authors assertions. The many \\"if this then that\\" explantions they provide leaves room for healty scepticism, as well as the remote possibility they hae stumbled onto the greatest \\"hoax\\" of all time. I highly recommend this book for anyone who has an open mind, is interested in a good mystery and can look at alternative explanations, that also require some stretch of \\"faith\\" but not of a religous variety. Erika Borsos (erikab93)em, such as the cup from which Christ drank but is instead, the quest for the \\"san greal\\", \\"sang royal\\" ... that is \\"royal blood\\". Jesus having descended from King David of ancient Israel, is of royal blood. The final and last secret is that there are today blood relatives living who are related to Jesus in France ... of course, this claim is based on a lot of \\"ifs\\".<br />I enjoyed this book for the many questions it raised and the many avenues of research the authors took to arrive at information. They name names, the provide a list of genealogical dynasties, they provide information about places, temples, monuments,gravestones, mysterious paintings and messages contained within them -- which can  all be examined. One  reason this book is so fascinating is the assertion and conclusions the authors arrive at --- is not \\"cut and dry\\", \\"black and white\\", since there is no solid and authentic document that can be dated and with total certainty to \\"prove\\" the authors assertions. The many \\"if this then that\\" explantions they provide leaves room for healty scepticism, as well as the remote possibility they hae stumbled onto the greatest \\"hoax\\" of all time. I highly recommend this book for anyone who has an open mind, is interested in a good mystery and can look at alternative explanations, that also require some stretch of \\"faith\\" but not of a religous variety. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-01-22
US	48282789	R2C3P69OBUKHVW	0399148760	892853054	Seizure	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Medical, Political &  Business Ethics Gone Awry	In this novel Dr. Robin Cook sheds light on the moral and ethical concerns which accompany medical/scientific research. He show us how a senator who takes an absolute and inflexible public stand on controversial research involving the use of embryos, suddenly does an about face when he develops a chronic and incurable disease himself. The senator volunteers to be the human subject i.e., \\"guinea pig\\" for the *very* procedure that he was so publicly and staunchly against ... Why? Because the procedure has a high probablity of curing his Parkinson's disease. The Senator has a *most* unusual request regarding the  source of the embryos that will create the dopamine making cells to cure his Parkinson's disease ...<br /><br />The personality of the senator was described fully and in depth. The personalities of the main characters, Daniel Lowell, MD, Ph.D. and Stephanie D'Agostino were more weakly described. Had the two main characters been developed more fully, I would have given this book a rating of 5. Overall I found this novel to be excellent. It reveals the realities that cause otherwise intelligent and moral people to take unusual risks. These two people risked losing both their excellent reputations and standing in the scientific community and their own bio tech research company because Congress did not sanction the medical procedure they researched, although it proven to have successful outcomes on animals. Another interesting twist in this book, is what extreme measures the investors took to recover their money, when they realized the value of their stocks had plummetted.<br /><br />Dr. Daniel Lowell and Dr. Stepanie D'Agostino utilize a research clinic and hospital in the Bahamas to test their procedure on human volunteer subjects. The bizarre circumstances which occur during and after the procedure are all too real to which anyone working in the healthcare industry can attest. Odd things can and do happen for many reasons. I am certain this book would be a huge hit as a movie, just as many preceding books by this author have been. The theme is current and relevant. The politician is thoroughly believable and real, especially as he d represents his own selfish interests and not those of the public. The main characters would have the added benefit of visual appeal especially when played by a famous/hot actor and actressw. They would provide the depth of personality missing in the book. This book falls into the \\"I can't put it down until I am finished reading it\\" category. Erika Borsos (erikab93)hit as a movie, just as many preceding books by this author have been. The theme is current and relevant. The politician is thoroughly believable and real, especially as he d represents his own selfish interests and not those of the public. The main characters would have the added benefit of visual appeal especially when played by a famous/hot actor and actressw. They would provide the depth of personality missing in the book. This book falls into the \\"I can't put it down until I am finished reading it\\" category. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-01-15
US	48282789	R1WBXI96RN7UU	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Experience the Thrill &amp; Adventure of Deciphering the Code	With creativity and artistic flair, Dan Brown, weaves into this novel a mystery that is 2,000 years old and actually much much older, in fact, dating back to the Eygptians and beyond. He combines fact and fiction into a labyrinth that leaves the reader spell-bound and a bit disoriented after the reading experience. Hesitant to read this book, I thought, &quot;Da Vinci Code&quot;, sounds too complicated to me. However, I was reassured by friends it was a mystery book, not a cipher text. I took the challenge and read it ...<br />This book turns into a nonstop adventure beginning with a murder in the Louvre, in Paris. It culminates with a visit to Isaac Newton's tomb in West Minster Abbey, and another to Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland ... intriguing places that hold the clues to solving the original mystery. Nicole Neveu, the neice of the murdered curator of the Louvre, and Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor of Religious symbology, are thrown together through an unusual communication left by the deceased, Jacques Sauniere. Very soon they realize the curator brought them together to reveal to them, &quot;the secret&quot; which solely he possessed. However, to prevent the wrong people from discovering &quot;the secret&quot;, he  shrouded it in unusual text, obscure verses, symbolism, and a mysterious box, that contained yet another veiled clue, an encrypted &quot;keystone&quot;. But the Opus Dei, a controversial devout Catholic sect also wanted to unravel the secret ... The clues to the mystery were hidden in Leonardo Da Vinci's paintings, within ancient symbols from a goddess cult, and within the architecture of the Knights Templar.<br />This is one book taht will keep you on the edge of your seat guessing &quot;what happens next&quot;. It will twist and turn your mind, as new clues are revealed. You will experience more depths and layers than any other novel ... ever. It is an artistic masterpiece which questions some fundamental human instincts. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2004-01-03
US	48282789	R1KRYD1SBDYRV1	1740591526	80417217	Lonely Planet Hungary	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Concise (Cultural/Historical/Educational) Complete Guide	While the internet is virtually an (almost) unlimted source for information about any country, it is also an overload of too much information ... that is when you need a guide to help you sort it all out. Lonely Planet does *just* *this* for anyone who is interested in visiting and touring Hungary. I have been to Hungary three times in the past five years and was delighted to discover this wonderful book. While my primary purpose was to visit relatives, the opportunity to visit historical sites and experience the culture is always foremost in my mind. Since most vacations are limited to 2, 3 or 4 weeks - you need to know where to find what interests you and make the most of your European vacation. This is the primary purpose of this book.<br />Lonely Planet tells you about restaurants, hotels (and their prices), entertainment, folklore events, art galleries, museums, castles, and churches, too -- giving a very good description of *nearly* everything of historical or cultural interest in the major cities and towns of Hungary. There are some very nice photographs,too. I was most impressed by their including information about transportation, buses, the metro and the trains. You are given an indespensible synopsis and outline of &quot;what you need to know&quot; of how to get &quot;where you want to go.&quot; Budapest is described in vivid detail - the charm of this old world capital is evident - anyone unfamiliar with its treasures is enticied to visit. I have visited, Szekesfehervar, Veszprem, Sarvar, Szombathely, Gyor, Sumeg, Koszeg, Csesznek, Zirc, Mor, and at Lake Balaton: Siofok, Keszthely, Tihany &amp; Badacsony -- all described beautifully for what they offer the tourist. Of note, there are highlighted boxes which give special information, hard to find elsewhere, for instance, &quot;Herend Porcelain&quot; is featured, giving a brief history of this art and a description of some patterns. &quot;The Victoria pattern of butterflies and wild flwoers of the Bakony was designed for Queen Victora after she admired a display of Herend pieces at the Great Exhibition in London in 1851.&quot; (page 228)<br />Another major plus to this guide, is it gives an accurate, scholarly and well researched brief history of Hungary in about 10 pages. I have read recently published history books about Hungary - Lonely Planet got it right! So if you are looking for a concise, cultural, historical, educational complete guide to visiting Hungary - buy this book. My highest accolades to this guide! Erika Borsos (erikab93)s designed for Queen Victora after she admired a display of Herend pieces at the Great Exhibition in London in 1851.&quot; (page 228)<br />Another major plus to this guide, is it gives an accurate, scholarly and well researched brief history of Hungary in about 10 pages. I have read recently published history books about Hungary - Lonely Planet got it right! So if you are looking for a concise, cultural, historical, educational complete guide to visiting Hungary - buy this book. My highest accolades to this guide! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-12-26
US	48282789	R18TEVRPQI9CZM	1400049512	651303425	Underworld: The Mysterious Origins of Civilization	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Discover "Lost" Cities/Monuments (Natural Wonders?)	Graham Hancock got my undivided attention with \\"Fingerprints of the Gods\\". He has won my continued interest by writing and researching ancient and mysterious civilizations. The \\"new\\" location of his research is underwater, off shore in the Meditarranean, India, and Asia, i.e., Taiwan and Japan. He *does* includes some references to fascinating \\"finds\\" in the Caribbean, the Bahamas and a recent site discovered near Cuba. His writing style is most engaging and so is the subject matter.<br /><br />I enjoy his ability to include 1) solid scientific evidence to back up his theories, 2) diaries he kept while exploring underwater sites, 3) a photo journal of monuments and structures (whether natural or man-made is yet to be determined) by his wife, 4) descriptions of what he actually sees, 5) ancient maps of the \\"old world\\", and  6) \\"inundation\\" computerized maps (scientific but limited) of what the world would have been like *before* the flood which occured after the Ice Age. Graham Hancock does a phenomenal job of describing how he got started in this research and he does a superior investigative report supporting his main theory, that many civilizations/ancient cities were wiped out worldwide due to the floods that occurred approximately 11,000 years ago. He and his wife learned to dive just so they could view first hand, the objects of their theories and research.<br /><br />Initially, I was impressed that this was a 700+ page book. I found the first three parts of the book fascinating reading, fairly easy to get through. However, by part 4, I was tired and slowing down. When I got to part 5, I had to force myself to finish the book. I am glad I did *not* give up. It was very much worth learning about stone monuments found near islands owned by Japan. The monuments are either natural, man-made, or both - as of yet, the \\"experts\\" are uncertain. Most astonishing are Graham Hancock's use of \\"inundation maps\\", maps developed by computers, from scientific data fed into them, such as, how high the water levels rose after the ice melted, etc. Today's computerized maps are compared to existing ancient maps, such as, \\"the 1424 Pizzagano chart\\", the results are quite similar. For this alone, Graham Hancock deserves recognition by the scientific community and serious consideration for his theories. This is a highly recommended book, although in all honesty, it becomes tedious reading about half-way through. However, it is well worth finishing once you get started. I hope the US Public Broadcasting System (PBS) buys the \\"Underwater\\" UK TV film series of Graham Hancock's dives and searches - to view them would be awesome. Erika Borsos (erikab93), such as, how high the water levels rose after the ice melted, etc. Today's computerized maps are compared to existing ancient maps, such as, \\"the 1424 Pizzagano chart\\", the results are quite similar. For this alone, Graham Hancock deserves recognition by the scientific community and serious consideration for his theories. This is a highly recommended book, although in all honesty, it becomes tedious reading about half-way through. However, it is well worth finishing once you get started. I hope the US Public Broadcasting System (PBS) buys the \\"Underwater\\" UK TV film series of Graham Hancock's dives and searches - to view them would be awesome. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-12-04
US	48282789	RCU0ZSWEHH845	0618154485	393747315	The Blood Runs Like a River Through My Dreams	Books	5	8	18	N	N	Sustaining Hope, Love, Life - Despite the Odds	Nadijj writes his memoirs with tenderness, compassion, insight, and matter of fact clarity. He writes stark naked sentences that speak volumes of truth in very few words about difficult life situations. The author recalls tangible things that remind him of his 6 year old adopted son, who we learn had died of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). The baby had acquired this disease from a mother who drank alcohol while pregnant. The author reveals the challenging social and economic conditions of growing up in a Native American culture without harshness or bitterness. The author \\"walks between two worlds\\", the Native American and White culture. He inherited the physical features of his father who was White yet he does not identify with the White culture. He absorbed the spirit and soul of his mother who was a Navajo (American Indian) which is evident by his use of imagery, descriptions of nature and wild life, and use of language. This book reveals how the author developed and transformed his life, despite poverty, and within the chaotic and often harsh circumstances of migrant work. His parents traveled all over the country working on ranches or farms. It is amazing how he maintained a sense of inner balance and harmony while the outside conditions were anything but that. The author describes a situation where his work with high school youth disillusioned him and yet later he was able to salvage one young Indian teenager's life through sustained interaction and discipline. We also are shown the seedy and underside of life for Native American teenagers when interventions are unsuccessful. In the midst of so much sadness and hardship one senses the hope and dreams upon which to build a better future. Past Native American defeats by the dominant culure and subsequent humiliations have permeated the mind-set of many Native Americans. While many aspects of the Native American culture have disintegrated there is a reawakening to traditions which is helping to revive the spirit and renew the dignity of the culture. This author describes heart-breaking life events of vulnerable people with understanding and compassion. His writing style, choice of words, and imagery are exceptional. I read this book in one sitting - unable to put it down. One learns about the shadow side of life but one also learns how the light of love and caring make even the most difficult situations bearable. This book is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)renew the dignity of the culture. This author describes heart-breaking life events of vulnerable people with understanding and compassion. His writing style, choice of words, and imagery are exceptional. I read this book in one sitting - unable to put it down. One learns about the shadow side of life but one also learns how the light of love and caring make even the most difficult situations bearable. This book is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-11-21
US	48282789	R1I7QS8MC7XD90	0765346435	81417598	The Last Jihad (Political Thrillers Series #1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Explosive, Contemporary, Eery, Haunting	It is November and the President of the United States arrives in Denver, Colorado via a motorcade. Simultaneously, a jet chartered by businessmen from Canada is ready to land at Denver International Airport, it fails to respond to directions from the control tower - instead it veers off course to attack the Presidential motorcade. During the chaos that ensues, several secret agents die to save the life of the President, who survives and is taken to a secret location while the Vice President is placed in control of the government. The President regroups with government officials to create counter-offensive strategies against this new global threat of terror. Jon Bennet, a Wall Street Securities analyst and a friend of the President's, had worked for the President during his former life as a CEO, is unexpectedly enlisted to negotiate an oil deal in Israel. Through some quirk of fate, first natural gas deposits were found in Israel, and after that ... oil. This business deal can lead to either world peace or world destruction depending on its success ... Jon Bennet and Erin McCoy, a business partner, are sent together, to Israel, to negotiate a deal for development of the oil reserves on behalf of a company. There are potential sparks of romance during this Israeli visit, as well as other explosive possibilities. Little does the world realize that at the same time, in Iraq, plans for the launch of an Intercontinental Ballistic Missle are underway ... Global events are escalating as &quot;the four horsemen&quot; who belong to a terrorist network have become fully operational, whom the CIA started tracking. World events are beginning to escalate in unexpected ways ... leading to a major potential catastrophe. But can it be prevented???<br />This novel is jam-packed with high energy, fast-paced action that leaves you breathless as you follow each and every word ... hanging on to the edge of your seat, trying to anticipate what happens next ... It is a book you do not want to put down. It is contemporary in characterizations and events. Anyone reading the book can identify with the theme, plot and potential outcomes. The author has a superior, refined writing style making it a very enjoyable reading experience. Erika Borsos (erikab93)to put down. It is contemporary in characterizations and events. Anyone reading the book can identify with the theme, plot and potential outcomes. The author has a superior, refined writing style making it a very enjoyable reading experience. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-11-04
US	48282789	R1XTIINP44I9NY	1400031257	272916113	Longitudes and Attitudes: The World in the Age of Terrorism	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Troubleshooting World Events Pre &amp; Post  9-1-1	Thomas L. Friedman provides us with a well-honed world view of life which preceded 9-1-1 and the shockwaves which resulted from Sept. 11th 2001. As a world correspondent for the New York Times, Mr. Friedman has travelled extensively to Israel, Jordan and other Moslem/Arabic countries. He has corresponded with Moslem newspaper writers, some of whom support a more tolerant interpretation of Moslem religious writing and also, those who promote the Islamic fundamentalist concepts. He clearly presents many of the reasons the Moslems hold the interpretations and perceptions they do regarding Israel and the USA. He provides explantions for the milieu in which young men grew up to become world terrorists. He explores some of the economic, social and political condtions which fostered the development of this chosen lifestyle ... He provides political challenges to President George W. Bush, Secretary of State Colin Powell,  Ariel Sharon and Yassser Arafat, and to Arab leaders to evaluate their positions and take action from the standards and values of truth and justice, of what is best for their people. His opinions span the globe, from the Israeli-Palestinian conflicts, to North Korea vs the free world, Saddam Hussein and weapons of mass destruction and to Saudi Arabia which failed in its leadership by silently consenting to terrorism, by monetarily supporting disguised philanthropic organizations. He leaves no stone unturned when it comes to revealing where and why serious problems arise. He clearly holds leaders accountable for their actions or lack thereof. His razor sharp mind cuts through a lot of meaningless diatribe to target the most important global issues which need to be addressed for survival of life as we know it. The clever title of the book, &quot;Longitudes and Attitudes&quot; aptly summarizes its contents which are global in outreach and affect everyone on a personal level. Among the last articles is a discussion about creating and destroying walls. It is contains perhaps the most insightful comments withinin the wholoe book. However, to truly understand and appreciate the particular article, one needs to read the whole book to get the flavor and context of why his comments are so on-the-mark ...<br />This book is highly recommmended reading for anyone wanting to understand the complex world in which we live. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ntains perhaps the most insightful comments withinin the wholoe book. However, to truly understand and appreciate the particular article, one needs to read the whole book to get the flavor and context of why his comments are so on-the-mark ...<br />This book is highly recommmended reading for anyone wanting to understand the complex world in which we live. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-11-04
US	48282789	R3MYRAUNLMZTJF	0446392944	997855913	Jung to Live by	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Everyday Applications of Jung's Theories	Dr. Eugene Pascal provides an illuminating book which clarifies many complex principles and concepts of Jung, bringing them into everyday reality. Most impressive are the chapters on  on 'individuation', 'the shadow' and 'psychic wholeness'. His explanation of how symbols operate within dreams is quite outstanding. The most enjoyable chapter for me explained how myths and legends are enacted unconsciously within us. The author provides numerous examples of how archetypes, the anima and animus, and &quot;the functions of consciousness&quot;, typology, helps us live in the world and resolve conflicts. How we &quot;transform&quot; ourselves is the main thrust of this book ... as Dr. Pascal observes ...in order to let our Light shine forth we must explore the Source of our energy. This is truly a fascinating book worth owning by anyone who is exploring Jung and consequently doing &quot;inner work&quot;. The book is all about how we manifest our reality ... a truly magnificent journey!<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-09-09
US	48282789	R3LP770FRZH49Q	0517887290	114266213	Fingerprints of the Gods	Books	5	343	376	N	N	Revealing Ancient Mysteries - New Theories	Graham Hancock, a reporter for the Economist and Sunday London Times, has done what many of us only dream about, he visited the ruins of many ancient cultures from around the globe and came up with some startling findings and theories. His journeys included: Machu Picchu in Peru, the Mayan ruins of Central America and Mexico, the Aztec ruins near Mexico City, the city of Teotihuacan, and the Egyptian ruins of Giza, the Pyramids, Heliopolis, Saqqara, and Abydos.<br /><br />He begins the book with a chapter introducing us to an ancient map of Antartica, made in AD 1513. It is called the Piri Reis map drawn up in Constantinople. It is an enigma because the 'modern' world only \\"recently\\" discovered Antartica in AD 1818. Graham Hancock ends his book with more information and theories about the reason Antartica may have shifted about 2,000 miles south of its original location, believed to be a subtropical climate, similar to that of the Meditarranean. Antartica is believed to have been situated about 30 degrees north of its present position on the planet. The explanation for its movement is based on an idea endorsed by Albert Einstein who wrote of it in 1953 *before* the scientific community had yet formulated the continental drift theory or the earth-crust shift theory. Graham Hancock provides numerous references from science and archeology to support his theories and conclusions.<br /><br />Graham Hancock knows how to weave scientific facts and theories, ancient myths and legends, his own personal diary and the photographs his wife took ... into a seamless tapestry which divulges plausible explanations for the origins of the magnificent structures built by ancient civilizations. He is a phenomenal writer who knows how to build suspense and intrigue. He keeps the reader hanging on the edge of his or her seat, anticipating what \\"hidden\\" messages of the past will be revealed next. Most astonishing are his revelations of special numerical relationships which were built into the structures of the pyramids in Egypt and Teotihuacan. Most amazing also is the fact that these special numbers are mentioned in numerous myths and legends from different cultures around the world. Dr. Carl Gustav Jung might call it \\"synchronicity\\" but if he had read this book he would more than likely call it 'intention'. The author contends the builders of these monuments and structures were trying to leave us, the future generation of the human race ... a message. They did this through archeological, mathematical, and scientific evidence, along with information passed down in myths and legends. Once started, this book is difficult to put down. Although it is not easy reading, it keeps the reader totally engaged and hooked, right from the beginning. Graham Hancock manages to connect catastrophic global events of the past, which scientists agree occurred about 10,500 years ago B.C. to the ancient monuments and ruins that are still standing. This is one book I would give more than 5 stars to if I could. *Very* highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)the structures of the pyramids in Egypt and Teotihuacan. Most amazing also is the fact that these special numbers are mentioned in numerous myths and legends from different cultures around the world. Dr. Carl Gustav Jung might call it \\"synchronicity\\" but if he had read this book he would more than likely call it 'intention'. The author contends the builders of these monuments and structures were trying to leave us, the future generation of the human race ... a message. They did this through archeological, mathematical, and scientific evidence, along with information passed down in myths and legends. Once started, this book is difficult to put down. Although it is not easy reading, it keeps the reader totally engaged and hooked, right from the beginning. Graham Hancock manages to connect catastrophic global events of the past, which scientists agree occurred about 10,500 years ago B.C. to the ancient monuments and ruins that are still standing. This is one book I would give more than 5 stars to if I could. *Very* highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-08-30
US	48282789	R2QBRIJ4Z9N3FN	0517221667	918506628	Complete Wine Encyclopedia	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The World of Wine at your Fingertips	Christian Callec has written one of the most comprehensive and unpretentious books on this vast, glorious but often misunderstood subject. For best results, one should, of course,  be sipping a glass of one's favorite wine while perusing the book ... The author, the curator of the Dutch Wine Museum for a number of years, has also written books on gastronomy (good food). In my eyes, this *alone* places him ahead of his competitors. Anyone who writes about *good* *food* &amp; *good* *wine* understands *exactly* what makes life worth living: naturally, adding family and friends to this definiton! What *first* sold me on this book was the fine detail and insightful knowledge he shares about Hungarian wine. He thoroughly covers &quot;need to know&quot; information, such as, the wine-growing regions, wine varities, and locations of the best wine-cellars and vineyards in Hungary. I love his descriptions of the various wines. For example, &quot;Tokaji Edes Szamorodni&quot; he states, has &quot;a wonderful bouquet of overripe fruit which in the upper notes are peach, apricot, raisin, almond, vanilla and various floral notes, such as lilly-of-the-valley and many blossoms.&quot; The description immediately makes me want to jump up &amp; run to the nearest speciality wine shop to get a bottle right now!!! Furthermore, he recognizes the growth, expansion and world-wide popularity of Hungarian wines within the past 10 years, is in direct and marked contrast to the neglect of the industry during the Communist era. I was impressed he devoted a total of 15 pages to this subject which is near and dear to my heart (&amp; taste-buds). Furthermore, he does great justice by writing about less familiar, obscure wine-growing regions, such as, Former Yugloslavia: Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia-herzegovina, and Romania, Bulgaria &amp; even a few from the former Soviet Union. As my main interest is Hungarian wines and he elaborates a great deal on this subject, I am totally satisfied. He also does a phenomenal job of writing about the &quot;elite&quot; wine-growing countries of the world: France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and California, as well as Greece. Another reason this book is so superb is, he includes, South Africa &amp; Zimbabwe; South America: Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, &amp; Australia, plus New Zealand. There are many great photos of vineyards, wine cellars, wines, wine bottles, and wine labels from around the world. The information is presented in a matter-of-fact style, but with an underlying flair and finesse for the obvious and unusual. I am so pleased I discovered this book! Erika Borsos (erikab93)lso does a phenomenal job of writing about the &quot;elite&quot; wine-growing countries of the world: France, Italy, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and California, as well as Greece. Another reason this book is so superb is, he includes, South Africa &amp; Zimbabwe; South America: Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, &amp; Australia, plus New Zealand. There are many great photos of vineyards, wine cellars, wines, wine bottles, and wine labels from around the world. The information is presented in a matter-of-fact style, but with an underlying flair and finesse for the obvious and unusual. I am so pleased I discovered this book! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-08-02
US	48282789	R2IT3ESFJF2DO0	1403903166	488135184	A History of Hungary: Millennium in Central Europe	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Outstanding Scholarly & Historical Book	I was enormously pleased to discover this recently written Hungarian history book (published in 2002). I have searched for a comprehensive \\"English\\" Hungarian history book for over 20 years and FOUND IT AT LAST!!! While it is not *easy* reading, neither did I expect it to be.  This is not fiction, it is a description of accurate, hard facts, \\"real life\\". One can not expect an author to make it \\"entertaining\\". Much of Hungarian history is filled with trials/tribulations, often caused by neighboring countries or the West who made treaties/alliances that worked against Hungarian autonomy. Hungary is situated in the center of Europe - hence the crossroads to the West, the Balkans, and Asia. The physical location of Hungary has created most of it's past political/historical problems and wars ...<br />Chapter I: \\"The Land, The People, The Migrations\\" is one of my favorites. Laszlo Kontler manages to create enticing, intriguing titles to each chapter, that makes one want to continue reading more. Although, it is often dry reading, one can easily stop & later take up any section. One can open any section for a good overview of important names, dates, and places in Hungarian history. Chapter II: \\"The Making of a Medieval Monarchy (895 - 1301)\\" is a great description of how Hungary's House of Arpad became a Catholic nation during feudalistic times. Kontler gives us a wonderful understanding of \\"The Golden Bull\\" and the rights/privileges and responsibilites of the nobility, landowners and peasants. He does a phenomenol job of revealing why Matthias Corvinus is a highly revered Monarch even today.<br />Hungary's \\"deviation\\" from the West and Western thinking is given a thorough analysis. The section on the Turkish wars and occupation is well written. Hungary's quest for expansion, even into Croatia and Serbia, & with some success almost as far as Naples, Italy is very fascinating. Chapter V is another absolutely thorough one which covers, the Enlightenment, Reforms, and the Hungarian Revolution of 1848. The quest to become a modern nation, despite Hungary's challenges, such as connection to the Austrian Empire is comprehensive and thoroughly covered. World Wars I and II are documented with precision and accuracy. The Chapter, \\"In Search of an Identity (1918 - 1945) is particularly well-written and an eye-opener. Chapter VII sums up the recent era, 1945 - 1989 with erudite accuracy.<br />A book of this magnitude and scope is difficult to write, I have great admiration for Laszlo Kontler 1)for his great breadth and depth of knowledge and 2) for his writing style which is flowing and precise. Mr Kontler does not interpret events for us, he gives us the facts and lets us examine our own feelings, thoughts or beliefs about the events as they unfold. He does not do modern day 'reporting', i.e., trying to sway the reader toward any political outcome or viewpoint. For this I give him the highest marks. This book is highly recommended for anyone of Hungarian origin or ancestry who wants to understand more about their roots or culture. Anyone else who has a keen interest in the origins of the Hungarian nation will also like this book, provided they are interested in \\"facts\\" rather than a \\"story\\". Erika Borsos (erikab93)garian Revolution of 1848. The quest to become a modern nation, despite Hungary's challenges, such as connection to the Austrian Empire is comprehensive and thoroughly covered. World Wars I and II are documented with precision and accuracy. The Chapter, \\"In Search of an Identity (1918 - 1945) is particularly well-written and an eye-opener. Chapter VII sums up the recent era, 1945 - 1989 with erudite accuracy.<br />A book of this magnitude and scope is difficult to write, I have great admiration for Laszlo Kontler 1)for his great breadth and depth of knowledge and 2) for his writing style which is flowing and precise. Mr Kontler does not interpret events for us, he gives us the facts and lets us examine our own feelings, thoughts or beliefs about the events as they unfold. He does not do modern day 'reporting', i.e., trying to sway the reader toward any political outcome or viewpoint. For this I give him the highest marks. This book is highly recommended for anyone of Hungarian origin or ancestry who wants to understand more about their roots or culture. Anyone else who has a keen interest in the origins of the Hungarian nation will also like this book, provided they are interested in \\"facts\\" rather than a \\"story\\". Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-07-14
US	48282789	R3KUUMJRUI3F9Y	1931335621	679202186	The Arrogance of Truth	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Modern Satire: Essays, Poems & Thoughts	The title alone \\"Arrogance of Truth\\" leads one to ask and ponder, \\"what truth\\", \\"whose truth\\"? Can people agree on any one definition of \\"truth\\"? This is the dilemma and this, also, is where the reader finds the humor on which the author builds his stories.<br />The stories are based on the author's extensive experience while living under Communism (socialism) in the former Soviet Union. They are also based on his travels and unique life experiences. The author is a keen observer of the human condition which he describes with a dead-pan, biting sense of humor. His stories, poems and thoughts provide the reader with a kaleidoscope of colors and patterns describing human follies.<br />The first story, \\"Ballet\\" is absolute tops. In this story, a graduate of a 'sports college' is selected by the infinite wisdom of the Communist party to attend a presentation of \\"Swan Lake\\" at the Bolshoi Ballet in Moscow. His job, as a radio broadcaster, is to review this famous cultural event for \\"the working class\\" (via the radio, which is funny in and of itself, as \\"ballet\\" is a visual art). His interpretation of this classic ballet, with references to politics and the socialist viewpoint, is hilarious. The scene where he describes the \\"exploitation\\" of the swans who are later \\"liberated\\" is truly outstanding parody. \\"Confession\\" is another classic tale, based on the modern tendency to reveal some \\"hidden defect\\", weakness, tendency or fault *because* it shows \\"everyone/everything is acceptable\\", \\"equal\\" on this common denominator base level. The absurdity of modern politically correct behavior is mirrored before us. \\"Eyewitness\\" is very funny. It shows how human beings seek to make heros out of any event, *even* a \\"nonevent\\". This story is a gem. \\"Honorable Shame\\" is a thoughtful treatise, which asks deep questions. It is a play on words about honor, innocence, and  shame, the last one of which is no longer a valid emotion in the modern world. \\"International Matchmaking\\" is a witty and humorous piece of writing based on the desire of a former Comunist party member to marry a \\"rich\\" American bride. He uses all kinds of persuasive techniques while revealing his avarice. He provides us many details of his life which are intended to show what a worthy person he really is ... His knowledge of how to exploit the American system is amazing. \\"Manifest\\" is an amusing imaginative piece of writing describing how \\"Bony People\\" are conspiring to take over the world - it will leave you in stitches, laughing out loud. The free-verse poem \\"Money\\" hits home, questioning, what is really important to a human being. The tongue-in-cheek irony of the essay, \\"Minorities\\", will leave some readers uncomfortable and squirming, possibly even accusing the author of having gone too far. However, read with the spirit in which the author intended, the story reveals just how far government and politics have interfered in the lives of the majority and limited *their* liberties. I have concluded, it is time I learned Spanish, and the sooner better!!! \\"Personal Touch\\" is a story with universal appeal.  We learn that the selection of a Funeral Home is a *very* important \\"personal matter\\" which requires choices that reveal the distinction and uniqueness of the loved one and his family. All are shown off to their best advantage, so-to-speak. The speech, \\"Secretary General\\", brings forth some of the best writing by the author. It contains parody, satire, and historical facts twisted and turned, as can only be done by someone totally familiar with the hypocrisies of living under Communist rule. \\"SGS & S. Co. Kettle\\" is a charming tale, a highly imaginative and creative endeavor which describes the \\"dos and don'ts\\" of properly using and caring for a kettle manufactured in Japan.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the the satirical essays, stories, and poems in this book. I feel the last section \\"Brief Thoughts, A Little Bit of This and a Little Bit of That\\" should be omitted in future editions. They appear to be disconnected ideas, not creative \\"satirical writing\\". The majority of the book is thoroughly engrossing and shows what a complex mind the author possesses. It reminds me of Mark Twain's book \\"Letters from the Earth\\", also considered controversial but a very creative and imaginative endeavor, too. Erika Borsoss. They appear to be disconnected ideas, not creative \\"satirical writing\\". The majority of the book is thoroughly engrossing and shows what a complex mind the author possesses. It reminds me of Mark Twain's book \\"Letters from the Earth\\", also considered controversial but a very creative and imaginative endeavor, too. Erika Borsos	2003-07-05
US	48282789	R16Y5TS1N47QLW	0375700951	411773072	The Pyramid	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Eery Novel: Haunting & Suspenseful	Ismail Kadare takes a historical event of 2,600 years ago, the building of the Pyrmaid of Cheops, and creates an eery and suspense filled novel. There are intrigues and plots, and political purifications. Clearly, the monument is a testament to the human beings who built it, their spirit, creativity, their blood, sweat, and tears. However, is there some grand design, some master plan, something more, might it not represent the infinite, something eternal? Read the book and decide ... It all starts out innocently enough, the High Priest recommends a project, building a pyramid to the Pharoah who at first is opposed to the idea. Then, like any good monarch or president, he appoints a committee to study the matter. The research falls short of expectations. To the disappointment of all, or perhaps, just to this reader, it is discovered, the past pharoahs did not build the pyramids for any grand and glorious reason. They did it just because they were rich, had an overabundance of wealth, which they used up, that's all. At first the public is appalled, another pyramid is to be built, everyone ... everywhere is a buzz with, how much time, effort, and resources will it take? The plans, the building materials, the workmen, the supervisors, even diplomats of foreign countries, all are intrigued with this grand scheme. Eventually the psyche of the country is totally obsessed with nothing but this project. Many years go by, decades go by, as the project continues, and nears completion ... Kadare weaves his plot masterfully, capturing how this huge event affects the people of Egypt from all walks of life, from the peasant, to the merchant, to the highly educated scribes and aristocracy ... the parallels to modern life are astonishing. The building of the pyramid becomes the ruling force in the lives of the people. The novel is highly complex and has great depth. It becomes a psychological thriller that the reader can not put down. Although a short novel, it is packed with unsettling moments that remain with the reader, long after one finishes reading the book. Based on this novel alone, any reader can understand why Ismail Kadare is recommended for the Nobel Prize in Literature. Erika Borsos (erikab93)ling moments that remain with the reader, long after one finishes reading the book. Based on this novel alone, any reader can understand why Ismail Kadare is recommended for the Nobel Prize in Literature. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-16
US	48282789	R3UH033CWPP31B	0140150706	13033756	The Portable Jung (Portable Library)	Books	5	230	231	N	N	Crystallized Jung	Edited by Joseph Campbell, this 650 page book does a phenomenal job of encapsulating the essence of Dr. Carl Gustav Jung's psychological concepts. The Introduction gives us an overview of Dr. Jung's life and published books which is no small task. The book starts out by describing the functions of the psyche and how it develops from childhood and throughout the lifespan. The role of instinct and the unconcsious are described next. The role of archetypes and the collective unconcsious is given a thorough review. The psychological types: of extraversion and introversion are connected with the feeling, thinking, sensing, and intuitive functions as theorized by Jung. Dream symbolism and alchemy are analyzed in depth. The roles of transcendence,  the anima, animus, shadow and synchronicity are examined in the development of the psyche, as man creates meaning in life. This is one of the best introductions to Jungian psychology on the market. It provides a great sampling of his works and simplifies the concepts for the average reader. Most readers will delve further into the vast universe of Jungian psychology immediately after reading just this one book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-16
US	48282789	R1LN3SNUYS83O0	0060920432	668386410	Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience	Books	5	389	411	N	N	Optimal Experience: Not One Destination	If anyone is seeking a \\"recipe\\" for \\"optimal experience\\" do not read this book. This book is not a step-by-step self-help guide. Neither is it a pedantic overview of psychological studies replete with statistical analyses, i.e., hard data, proving \\"flow\\" exists. The simplest way to summarize this book is, it describes how different people create meaning in life with full intention and focus and thereby achieve an ongoing state of satisfaction and sense of fulfillment.<br /><br />The book begins with an overview of how people define and achieve happiness. Essentially, the author contends, most people are not happy because the universe was not created to make us happy but on the contrary, it serves to frustrate us and help us grow ... The primary focus of this book is to show us that \\"flow\\" states happen to people despite the challenges of the universe, it happens to people from all walks of life, from all cultures, throughout the world.<br /><br />Flow is a state of consciousness which can be achieved on an individual path. It also has common elements which anyone who is experiencing the state can identify. The author examines the common experiences which people who are in a state of \\"flow\\" describe. It seems people who are in \\"flow\\" achieve a state of consciousness that is in harmony with their surroundings and feelings. They do not make distinctions between work and play ... people in \\"flow\\" create an inner state of being that brings them peace and fulfillment that is separate from their external environment. They are focused, what they do is meaningful and has purpose, they are absorbed in their activities and they have a sense of connection to their inner self and and also with others. The state called \\"flow\\" pertains to enjoyment and satisfaction with one's quality of life. The basis for the flow experience seems to be creating meaning and controlling consciousness where a state of unity exists which is consistent with a person's life themes. Some people experience it for minutes, some for hours, some for days on end ... evidently it can be sustained for long periods of time by some people. This book is highly recommended for anyone interested in the \\"psychology of being alive here and now.\\"<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)nce it for minutes, some for hours, some for days on end ... evidently it can be sustained for long periods of time by some people. This book is highly recommended for anyone interested in the \\"psychology of being alive here and now.\\"<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-16
US	48282789	R349KQ8ZAOTAQ	0140188541	423321900	Selected Short Stories	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Vivid, Magnificent, Haunting, Mysterious Stories	Rabindranath Tagore is best known for his Bengali devotional songs, which were translated to English as poetry. His most famous book of poems, Gitanjali, won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913. However, Tagore also wrote short stories which reflect the people, customs, social structure, turmoil, and relationships of the times in which they were written. When the stories were written, Tagore lived on a houseboat. He watched the ebb and flow of life in villages along the river. He captured the essential features of Bengali village life. He saw the caste system, the inequality, the struggles and limitations imposed on people. He wrote about the realities he witnessed. He saw that women were treated as second class citizens, despite their intelligence and talents. He witnessed death as a part of life, when antibiotics had not yet been developed, infections killed children and adults alike. Orphans remained to be raised by next of kin. Tagore manages to capture teh feelings and emotions of the disenfranchised, the poor, and the helpless. His stories are often haunting and eery - the reader gets the feeling for where the stories are leading but suddenly an unexpected twist can change the outcomes. Whatever the theme or topic, Tagore maintains a spiritual awareness or presence in all his stories ... he is sensitive to the innocent, the vulnerable, the unprotected ones in society. His characters have unique personalities. He describes family relationships and explores  prescribed roles and society's expectations. He also reveals what happens when people challenge their roles and fall outside behavioral norms. Although the stories were written in the 1890s, the message Tagore conveys has meaning in modern times.<br />Expressions of love, respect, and decency toward one's fellow human being are universal, therefore Tagore will be held in high esteem by future generations, just as he has been revered by past and present readers. The content of his stories are not bound by space or culture, they are spiritual and therefore timeless. Erika Borsos (erikab93)pace or culture, they are spiritual and therefore timeless. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-07
US	48282789	RO5DUYMCMADEZ	031220079X	835374304	Rabindranath Tagore: An Anthology	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Extraordinairy Selections & Literary Achievement	With immense pleasure and great anticipation I read this Anthology. I feel the world is ready for Tagore's poems, short stories, and plays once more. His interest in world peace, his sensitivity for the human condition, and love of humanity is the kind of message the world needs, perhaps *even* more today than when the author first wrote his words. As with most translations of this author's famous work - there is a wonderful and necessary \\"Introduction\\" which gives many examples of his life experiences, interests, and achievements, helping one to sense the broad scope of knowledge and range of ideas to which the reader will be exposed.<br /><br />Krishna Dutta and Andrew Robinson so wisely selected his play, \\"The Post Office\\" as the first chapter. This play is like a pearl found in an oyster shell ... the outside appearance gives no impression of the valuable gem to be found within. The message is breath-taking in its simplicity and sublime due to its universal message which transcends culture and time. The beauty of this Anthology is the wide range and depth of Tagore's writing to which the reader is exposed. His writing is awesome and inspiring, filled with love for mankind, by one who sees the complete picture, but nonetheless is filled with hope. We read Rabindranath Tagore's memoirs in \\"My Remininscences\\" - we learn about his relationship with his father, a journey into the Himalayas, and his boyhood days. Tagore's travel writings about Russia, Japan, England, Java, Persia, and a day at the spa in Balatonfured, Hungary are fascinating to read. We have the privilege of reading Tagore's personal letters to his neice, the poet Yeats, the poet Ezra Pound, many of his friends, the philosopher, Bertrand Russell, and many other people with whom he corresponded. From this one garner's more about the personality of the man whom Tagore was, a person who lived his values and beliefs, not one who merely just wrote about them. We read a fascinating exchange of ideas with Albert Einstein on \\"The Nature of Reality.\\" Tagore's mastery of the short story has won him recognition in Bengal and throughout the world. He conveys social, political, and human relationships of the villager and city dweller with equal ability. He gradually exposes feelings and conflicts, and carefully builds suspense until the mystery is revealed or the  situation is resolved often with unexpected consequences. Although fewer poems are included than one would expect, two important ones, \\"The Sick Bed\\" and \\"The Recovery\\", written toward the end of his life are included. Also, \\"The Ocean of Peace\\" a song Tagore himself planned to sing after a play, was instead sung for him at his funeral, which he requested while he was ill. If someone is unfamiliar with Tagore's writing this book is highly recommended as a starting point. It contains a full measure of the author's broad interests and truly represents the universal message, \\"the unity of mankind\\" which he attempted to convey in his writing.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)bert Einstein on \\"The Nature of Reality.\\" Tagore's mastery of the short story has won him recognition in Bengal and throughout the world. He conveys social, political, and human relationships of the villager and city dweller with equal ability. He gradually exposes feelings and conflicts, and carefully builds suspense until the mystery is revealed or the  situation is resolved often with unexpected consequences. Although fewer poems are included than one would expect, two important ones, \\"The Sick Bed\\" and \\"The Recovery\\", written toward the end of his life are included. Also, \\"The Ocean of Peace\\" a song Tagore himself planned to sing after a play, was instead sung for him at his funeral, which he requested while he was ill. If someone is unfamiliar with Tagore's writing this book is highly recommended as a starting point. It contains a full measure of the author's broad interests and truly represents the universal message, \\"the unity of mankind\\" which he attempted to convey in his writing.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-02
US	48282789	RXDRL1ZP28OHS	0679640878	663839632	The Balkans: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Concise, Clearly Written & Comprehensive	In approximately 185 pages, the author manages to convey and briefly analyze significant historical events in the Balkans in a disciplined scholarly manner. I found the book very engaging and readable. I was amazed at the broad scope of information covered. It was not dull, dry or filled with boring details. He begins to unravel the \\"mystery\\" of the Balkans by a description of the land and terrain from which the word \\"Balkans\\" originated, few people realize the term was coined only about 200 years ago. For human interest, the author intersperses descriptions from diaries written 150 years ago or so by travelers to the region. We have been led to believe the regional conflicts have been ongoing since the beginning of time .. not so, and the author tells us why! Mark Mazower tells us when the conflicts started and who the major players are. The natural environment, mountains and valleys, created a lifestyle which is mostly agrarian and land-locked. The mountains made the area isolated and almost impenetrable both physically and ideologically to the more \\"civilized\\" ideas and industries of the more progressive Westernized European nations. One can understand how the region catapulted into an urbanized industrial complex *only* within the past 200 years. The author clearly writes about the social and political impact of the Ottoman Empire on the Balkans. I was impressed how the author could connect the \\"peasant values\\" and lifestyle with the political forces which constantly shaped and redefined the area. The migration of people and their adaptability to the imposed changes due to wars and conflicts is totally amazing. The impact of the decisions of the Great Powers on \\"nation-building\\" in the region was explained with erudite precision. The importance of the Greek language in the region due to the past is brought to light. The author's ability to tie ancient history to current events is quite remarkable. This book is highly recommended to anyone who has a desire to learn more about the people and history of the Balkans. It is written by a highly knowledgeable author, former Princeton University professor, who has no personal agenda or ties to the region.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)rn more about the people and history of the Balkans. It is written by a highly knowledgeable author, former Princeton University professor, who has no personal agenda or ties to the region.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-02
US	48282789	RAQXMDDUNST52	0385481918	666898171	Tying Rocks to Clouds: Meetings and Conversations with Wise and Spiritual People	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Bringing Spirituality Down to Earth ...	The author, William Elliot is someone you might know, the boy living next door, who went away to the University, whose parents died when he was young, someone who was raised by loving parents, that is, until they died when he was a teen. He keeps alive the values and love his parents showed him but he is searching for something. He is looking for meaning - meaning to their death and his loss. He was a psychology major at the University of Wisconsin when he conceived of interviewing the \\"wise and spiritual\\" people who are alive today. His method was deceptively simple ... he sought answers to 25 - 30 questions that might unlock the secrets to his dilemma. Questions such as, \\"What is the meaning or purpose of life?\\" \\"Do you believe in G-d or Ulitmate Reality?\\" \\"Why is there suffering, evil in the world? and What is its cause?\\" \\"What is important to you?\\" \\"What are the three most important problems in life?\\" He was dissuaded from pursuing this endeavor, to write a book about his conversation with the \\"wise and spiritual\\" people whom he interviewed. He overcame challenges and obstacles to interview the people on his list, all the while holding firmly to his goal. He met and interviewed: His Holiness the  Dalai Lama, Ram Dass, Norman Vincent Peale, Robert Schuller, Jean Houston, Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross, Rabbi Harold Kushner, psychologist Albert Ellis, psychologist B.F. Skinner, Pir Vilayat Khan, Frances Vaughn, Stephen Levine and even Mother Theresa. He interviewed a total of 21 high-profile persons deemed 'wise and spiritual' by modern standards. The author does not interpret the answers for us, instead he writes out the answers given to him by each person interviewed. In some cases, he writes an introduction prior to the interview, letting the reader know how he managed to get an appointment or interview with the \\"important\\" person or else he describes some interesting event or circumstance concerning the interview. He seldom makes a judgement about the person or what they said ... his writing style is matter-of-fact and straight forward. This style of writing makes the book a valuable and worthwile reading experience. It is as if, you, yourself, decided what questions to ask and took the time to write out the answers, sometimes, in utter amazement, that you snagged the interview with his or her eminence ... The author also made a trek to Nepal to meditate and visit one of the most spiritual climates and areas of the world. We learn of his experiences and interactions with people he met there. This book is recommended for anyone who has any interest in spirituality or has read any book by the persons whom the author interviewed. It can be said the author found the truth which he was seeking ... Erika Borsos (erikab93)t they said ... his writing style is matter-of-fact and straight forward. This style of writing makes the book a valuable and worthwile reading experience. It is as if, you, yourself, decided what questions to ask and took the time to write out the answers, sometimes, in utter amazement, that you snagged the interview with his or her eminence ... The author also made a trek to Nepal to meditate and visit one of the most spiritual climates and areas of the world. We learn of his experiences and interactions with people he met there. This book is recommended for anyone who has any interest in spirituality or has read any book by the persons whom the author interviewed. It can be said the author found the truth which he was seeking ... Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-06-02
US	48282789	ROIXZR6JPDEBG	0060504080	560632836	Small Wonder: Essays	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Thought-provoking Essays:  Nature, Politics, the World	They say \\"don't judge a book by it's cover\\" but I did & do not regret it because that's how I discovered this very unique and compelling book. Most of the stories are tremendously enjoyable: particularly the ones about the natural wonders the author has viewed, conserving the environment, and family stories. Rarely, the author feels the need to \\"lecture\\" us about world events and politics which makes the reader feel one has fallen for a \\"bait and switch\\" tactic. It is unfortunate but the very first story uses this technique to air personal politics. Entitled, \\"Small Wonder\\", it starts out about a lost baby in Iran, who is discovered the next day in a cave, being nursed by a she-bear. How that connects to the diatribe that follows about terrorism, 9-1-1, and politics, I am uncertain.<br /><br />Once one gets past the first story, the rest of the book is truly a work of art. Ms Kingsolver would be pleased that *her* book was prominently displayed at a major national bookstore & is the reason I found it. Her essay, \\"Marking a Passage\\" is a wonderful story recalling her experiences at an old bookstore, which catered to customers preferences & eccentricites, but which sadly closed forever. It is particularly nostalgic for her because that one bookseller, rcommended the author's first book to everyone who walked in the store. Some of her best \\"essays\\" are stories about 'real life' experiences, such as her daughter's chickens or her visit to Japan and the cultural barriers she overcame with wit and humility. Two stories which begin as \\"Letters\\", one to her daughter and one to her mother, are very effective and revealing - each has a universal message and appeal. Recollections of family life and descriptions of precious time together viewing the Grand Canyon, hunting, as only a bird-watcher can, to catch a glimpse of a \\"scarlet macaw\\" in Costa Rica, and setting a crab free on Sanibel Island in Florida are among my favorites in the book. Another masterpiece is the story, \\"A Forest's Last Stand\\" in which Mayan Indians in the Yucatan, near the city of Merida, learn to build an ecosystem that sustains the life of trees, along with sustaining the lives of the human beings who are the descendants of the original inhabitants of the region.<br /><br />Near the end, the author *again* feels she must jab the reader with her views on US politics within and outside our borders, in the story entitled \\"And Our Flag Was Still There\\". Ms Kingsolver would be better served, saving her opinions on imperialism, the Middle East, wars in Central America, and the Gulf War, the Bill of Rights, and her feelings about \\"the rockets red glare\\" for her next book. Unfortunately, in today's US climate, I do *not* think *that* book would be a bestseller. It is much easier to scatter opinions and controversial ideas in an essay format in a book which has the appearance to be about *anything* else *but* that, uch easier to take the unsuspecting reader unaware. The best features about this book are it is about the neighborhood, the country, and the world, from a natural, environmental, and family perspective. The reader does not have to agree with the author's politics to enjoy the majority of the book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)Forest's Last Stand\\" in which Mayan Indians in the Yucatan, near the city of Merida, learn to build an ecosystem that sustains the life of trees, along with sustaining the lives of the human beings who are the descendants of the original inhabitants of the region.<br /><br />Near the end, the author *again* feels she must jab the reader with her views on US politics within and outside our borders, in the story entitled \\"And Our Flag Was Still There\\". Ms Kingsolver would be better served, saving her opinions on imperialism, the Middle East, wars in Central America, and the Gulf War, the Bill of Rights, and her feelings about \\"the rockets red glare\\" for her next book. Unfortunately, in today's US climate, I do *not* think *that* book would be a bestseller. It is much easier to scatter opinions and controversial ideas in an essay format in a book which has the appearance to be about *anything* else *but* that, uch easier to take the unsuspecting reader unaware. The best features about this book are it is about the neighborhood, the country, and the world, from a natural, environmental, and family perspective. The reader does not have to agree with the author's politics to enjoy the majority of the book. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-05-20
US	48282789	RAFK2PM4YP752	0062552783	381311088	Embodying Spirit: Coming Alive With Meaning and Purpose	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Spiritual Journey: Explore Yourself - Explore the World	Jacquelyn Small writes with knowledge and experience ... I heard her at a workshop entitled \\"Embodying Spirit: Coming Alive with Meaning & Purpose\\" held in Orlando, FL . It was sponsored by Ms Small, who along with well-known psychologists and authors, Ram Dass, Thomas Moore, Joan Halifax & ohters, presented many of the ideas & concepts synthesized in this book. In essence, the book is about \\"self-discovery\\" from a Jungian, Christian and Buddhist perspective. She discusses concepts such as \\"Divine Discontent\\" (seeking a greater identity) , \\"the Law of Transcendence\\" (rising above problems/climbing to a higher plane of consciousness), \\"the Law of Antimony\\" (how to harmonize complementary opposites), \\"the Paradigm Shift\\" (recognizing we are cocreators of reality/our observation changes it). She helps us see conflicts as ways to sharpen our understanding of reality and consciousness. This should decrease our suffering and deepen our understanding of life. \\"Facing the Shadow\\" means opening up to see parts of ourselves we deny, bringing forth the unconsious aspects into awareness. We build our future by \\"harvesting the good from the past\\" and learning how we experiece archetypes. She explains that 'holding the divine tension' between being human and identifying with the divine  we build our identities and fulfill our destinies. She describes stages of the \\"path of return\\" which means discovering we are \\"spiritual beings who are embodied\\". However, do not feel there is \\"final destination\\". The \\"path of return\\" is the journey of our lives on which we constantly use \\"spiritual discernment\\" as our guide. When problems arise which we resist the task is to be aware of the spiritual self, keep it awake, do not shut out feelings and avoid the tasks at hand. Simple? No. A true spiritual path never is ... the destination is \\"growth\\" and \\"awareness\\". We learn the physicist, John Hitchcock, defined spirituality as, \\"an internal shaping force\\". Jaqueline Small states, \\"Spirit and matter have merged.\\" The journey is about awakening to our true identities.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)ter have merged.\\" The journey is about awakening to our true identities.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-05-15
US	48282789	R2BYONI9SII40E	0060930888	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Divided Nation: The Human Factors	Being fascinated by the Civil War, I have often browsed books on the subject but never felt inclined to buy one ...  until I picked up this book. The deciding factor to buy this one was the title: \\"April 1865: the Month that Saved America\\". Most books on the subject focus too much on battles, strategies, and outcomes, which can be cumbersome, afterall, it was a four year war. However, this author focuses on *the* *most* *important* month which highly appeals to me. Little did I realize, what a wide range of knowledge, depth and detail would be covered in *only* one month of this four year war. Once I started reading, I could not put the book down. It is full of scholarly research presented as if the author were an eyewitness to the events that unfolded. The author describes the characters and personalities of the key generals and even President Abraham Lincoln as if he knew them. It is a highly effective literary technique that makes the book very readable for the average reader. It balances well with the necessary well-researched details of key battles and outcomes. I was surprised to be mesmerized by the details of important battles, learning who won, how many soldiers were lost and who retreated, at what time and why ... fascinating, too was learning what strategies led to the outcomes for either side. This author uses vivid and colorful descriptions that make you want to learn more. Of note, is the introduction, which provides a background to help the reader understand what a fragile thing the \\"Constitution of the United States\\" really was at the time. One begins to see and appreciate how \\"building a nation\\" from sea to shining sea had tenuous moments where the outcomes *could* have been quite different indeed. It dawns on the reader how precious freedom really is and how important it is to safe-guard our hard-earned \\"rights\\". Reading about how the nation was divided - helps us understand how important it is to never let such a thing happen again.<br /><br />The author deftly side-steps the causes of the war, although he does mention slavery as being the primary reason. This is the only difference of opinion I have with the author. He takes the \\"easy way out\\" by blaming \\"slavery\\". In actuality, the South was fighting for their economic survival, they were defending their 'way of life'. They feared losing their main cash crop which they wanted to export to Europe, without Congress imposing excessive taxes that forced them to trade only with the North. Otherwise, I find the author avoids showing partiality to either the North or South. The book is written in a narrative fashion, almost, but not quite like a novel. It must have been hard to remain neutral while writing the facts yet somehow he manages this. He also writes compassionately about the suffering endured by the South. He depicts the destruction of Sherman's march through Atlanta and the southern cities much more mildly than it deserves, this no doubt is his attempt to remain neutral. Most interesting to me, was the detailed description of Abraham Lincoln and his responses to the war, an analysis of his feelings and conflicts, reasons why he may have been alone that fateful night he went to the theater. Most riveting is the description of the nine hour ordeal endured by his wife and the physicians, who kept vigil at the president's bedside, during the last hours of his life. Other memorable moments described in full technicolor detail are the surrenders of the Confederate generals. The author does a phenomenal job of describing the larger-than-life southern \\"bushwackers\\" who in today's terms would be called, \\"guerrilla fighters\\". Amazing how the South held out as long as it did - four solitary years of suffering for the cause they believed in. Such courage is worthy of admiration. Fighting for one's homeland and beliefs is one of the noblest causes for which human beings suffer, despite the high cost in terms of lives lost. One learns, the price of freedom is alwayspaid in blood. From this book one can extrapolate meaning from war even in modern times. Erika Borsos (erikab93)paid in blood. From this book one can extrapolate meaning from war even in modern times. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-04-21
US	48282789	R1U36KO44P8EJ6	0847825043	620431349	The Rage and the Pride	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Authentic Emotional Outburst on Current Events	Ms Fallaci writes both with her heart and mind, what she calls a \\"sermon\\" but which is more like a \\"stream of consciousness\\" response to Islamic fundamentalism and its incompatibility with Western/modern life. She defends freedom and admires the response of the citizens of the USA, her adopted country, when it was attacked senselessly by the terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001. She briefly mentions how she played a part in fighting fascism in Italy during World war II. She gives us some background of how she became a reporter and writer. From there, she takes us on a journey into her complex mind and emotions. She reveals the contradictions and hypocrisies of Islamic fundamentalism. She describes the incongruites of many movements, wars and rebellions to which she was an eye witness. She mentions the hypocrisies of the local government in her own homeland, Florence, Italy. She is enraged by inconsistency of doctrine, hypocrisy, and violence, used to subjugate human beings. It is necessary to read and reread the book many times to understand the many subtle and obvious points she drives home, again and again, with examples from civil wars, rebellions, and skirmishes from around the globe. The book is jam packed with facts and information, that only a citizen of the world, such as she is could provide. This is an excellent book. It is written from a personal point of view but contains universal truths about current events. She is against oppression that is very clear. She enjoys and loves her freedom and is willing to fight for it.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-04-21
US	48282789	R1A7KU21MNM8MX	1565114914	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Paris: from the Inside by an Outsider	Living in Paris was the dream and wish of this author since he<br />first visited during his teenage years. It has been said, \\"once, you visit Paris, you must return ...\\" and much of the allure is based on the desire to relive the memories of the first meal ever consumed there, recalling all the tantalizing and delicious flavors that only Parisians can create. The book is essentially a 4 year memoir of living in Paris from the mid-1990s. The author is a writer for the New Yorker magazine, his wife a screenplay writer, who, along with their infant son, pack up and leave their home in New York, for the adventure of a lifetime. What I loved most about the book is how the author compares and contrasts American thinking, logic, and values with those of the  socialistic, French, cosmopolitan view. The book is educational, literary, entertaining and occasionally amusing. The author's technique of interspersing French history and  political outlook with current events and situations is particularly effective. The author writes with first hand knowledge about fashion shows held by the elite designers, the Parisian cuisine of the most well-established restaurants, reasons for some fo the strikes, the socialistic approach to healthcare, and even apartment hunting, explaining how & why the government owns apartments in the \\"best\\" neighborhoods, available only to highly elected officals. Of interest to me, was a chapter on the political trial of a government official who had been involved in processing the paperwork for Jews who were deported to concentration camps during World War II - the sobering past is never too far away. My favorite story was the \\"Balzar Wars\\" in which a group of restaurant regulars (well established customers) form an \\"association\\" to stand up for the rights of the waiters (garcons) when an restaurant tycoon buys this favorite restaurant of theirs ... The author describes favorite \\"haunts\\" of his such as museums, art galleries, parks near the Left Bank, and even how to maneuver through the red-tape of the \\"Bibliotheque National\\" (Naitonal Library). He also describes the favorite places of his son, who is around 2 - 3 years of age by then. Another charming story was his son's first \\"love affair\\" with a Parisian blond beauty, of about 4 years of age. There is just the right combination of intellectual discourse, creative description and chatty banter, to create a hihgly pleasurable reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)nd even how to maneuver through the red-tape of the \\"Bibliotheque National\\" (Naitonal Library). He also describes the favorite places of his son, who is around 2 - 3 years of age by then. Another charming story was his son's first \\"love affair\\" with a Parisian blond beauty, of about 4 years of age. There is just the right combination of intellectual discourse, creative description and chatty banter, to create a hihgly pleasurable reading experience.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-13
US	48282789	R1OZAQYNLWLPTV	0856290017	120049344	Tao Te Ching (Editions poetry London ; 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Achieving Serenity in the Midst of Chaos	Here are irrefutable truths, written as mystical, poetic expressions, that stand the test of time, applicable even today, although written in the 3rd century B.C. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-13
US	48282789	R2UWPH95L824EA	0440351839	317933585	Man and His Symbols	Books	5	43	54	N	N	Symbols Important to Human Psyche	This is the last and perhaps the most important book written by Dr. Carl Gustav Jung. He was among the first to interpret dreams and amazingly this book came about *because* of a dream. Jung dreamt he was talking about this topic to a large audience who were *not* psychiatrists and psychologists - evidently *his* unconcsious put it's stamp of approval on this project! This book is a great introduction to the \\"hidden\\" meaning of the symbols used in legends, medieval archetecture, classic books, and ancient myths as well as dreams. Patterns of psychic growth and development, individuation and transcendence are explained along with other psychological terms with real life examples at times. It is not about depth psychology or sociopathic problems.<br /><br />One chapter was written by C.G. Jung, the others were written by his eminent followers, among whom are: M.L. von Frantz, Joseph L. Henderson, Angela Jaffe, and Jolande Jacobi. This book is a \\"must have\\" for anyone who is interested in learning more about human behavior from the \\"inside out\\".<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-07
US	48282789	R26B1FN7TZ1745	0062506595	436477994	The Holotropic Mind: The Three Levels of Human Consciousness and How They Shape Our Lives	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Origin of Non-ordinairy Experiences of the Mind	Stansilav Grof writes about non-ordinairy states of consciousness from the perspective on one who has experienced them. He explores three transpersonal realms: 1) \\"within\\" everyday reality, 2) \\"beyond\\" everyday reality, & 3) the \\"psychoid\\" realm. The author contends that experiential patterns he calls \\"Basic Perinatal Matrices\\" (BMPs) of which there are four, constitute the guiding forces within our lives. These patterns are specific and individualized to each human being, they are the \\"psychospiritual blueprints\\" that guide the experiences in our lives from an emotional and spiritual standpoint. These guiding forces can be accessed through altered states of consciousness. There are archetypes and symbolic experiences all human beings share based on the BMPs - these relate to \\"birth-death\\" experiences, artistic expression, spiritual symbolism/imagery and several other categories. The book connects/links humans based on their one common experience: physical birth and how it relates to the remainder of the human journey of life. It explores human transpersonal reality which is the core basis of life ... This is an excellent psychological treatise on a complex and controversial subject. Highly recommended reading! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-06
US	48282789	R1XL29A7ATTJXE	0062510630	735635617	Earth Medicine: Ancestor's Ways of Harmony for Many Moons	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Native American Spirituality for Everyday Use	Native American culture respects the earth and the natural realm. This book distills the wisdom and psychology of living close to the earth but from a spiritual and heart-based practice.<br />It provides daily meditations based on a 28 day moon cycle times 13 months to equal meditations for a 364 day calendar year. The titles of some of the meditations are: \\"Immutable Laws\\", \\"Blue Moon\\", Keepers of the Earth\\", \\"Sacred Point of View\\", \\"Infinite Creations\\", \\"Heartstrings, the Threads of Life\\", and \\"Serenity\\" to name a few ... The meditations are based on Native American beliefs and legends and are tempered with real life experiences.<br />Interspersed are beautiful poems which reveal deep spiritual insights which can also serve as positive affirmations. This book is a gem. It can be a healing force for anyone with an  open heart. It is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-06
US	48282789	R2SG045ITODX7Z	1561761524	907997236	Recovering the Soul: A Scientific and Spiritual Search	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Journey of the Soul via Nonlocal Mind	Dr. Larry Dossey explores the mind-body connection and draws very startling conclusions about the mind and human experiences. He steps out on a limb which does not break nor does he fall off of it. He is one of the few physicians who dare to write about subjects that are considered 'taboo' by 'true' scientists (which MDs consider themselves). The book begins with a true story about Sarah, a young lady who had a gallbladder operation with unintended consequences: she experienced cardiac arrest and subsequent defibrillation, for the life-threatening arrhythmia, v. fib.. Her experience is unique in that afterwards, she described the events in vivid detail, including 'seeing' the mismatched socks worn by the anesthesiologist. This, in and of itself, is highly unusual but it is *even* *more* *unusual* that she has been *blind* since birth. Therefore she experienced a \\"different\\" form of seeing ... Dr. Dossey explores metaphysical forms of reality and spiritual concepts associated with health and well-being. He weaves the findings of quantum physics in with, the theories of Rupert Sheldrake, along with the described experiences of mystics from various religious traditions. The main theme is \\"nonlocal mind\\" and a \\"unifying consciousness\\". Essentially he writes about how individuals are co-creators with the divine ... This book is riveting and hard to put down. The author is well-read and provides a solid foundation to support his controversial conclusions. It is a 'must read' for anyone who asks the questions, \\"who am I\\" and \\"what am I doing here?\\" [THIS REVIEW IS FOR THE PAPERBACK BOOK] Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-06
US	48282789	RP030TS5ZKGUD	1570625190	568909588	The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The Merging of Science and Mysticism	This book weaves a magical spell over the reader who is fascinated by both science and mysticism. It covers both in great depth and detail. The essential teachings of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism and Zen are carefully distilled and the unifying principles of these paths are identified. The one characteristic all these '-isms' share is the awareness of unity of the connectedness of the whole. Capra compares and contrasts classical and modern physics while integrating the mystical truths as discovered in these religions. It is a daunting undertaking but he succeeds with aplomb! The close parallels between Eastern mysticism and modern physics (quantum physics) is amazing - each approaches reality from a different starting point but arrives at the same place. Capra writes about the cosmic dance of particle, energy, and consciousness - highly complex topics, in a very readable manner. He touches upon Geoffrey Chew's S-matrix theory (bootstrap philosophy) and Bohm's theory of Implicate Order. He calls the paradigm shift we are experiencing \\"a crisis of perception\\" from which all problems in the world arise. The manner in which scientific ideas are interspersed with mystical concepts is truly astonishing! Fritjof Capra manages to precipitate the essential kernal of truth from apparent divergent viewpoints ...This is a great book for anyone exploring the relationship of the rational scientific view and mysticism, i.e., the spiritual journey.  This is a very valuable book for the modern world. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-06
US	48282789	R2F0XXX0MRYQ2X	055326382X	963690652	The Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Exploring  Quantum Physics & Reality	This is *the* definitive book to read for anyone seeking to understand the basics of quantum physics. Here is your guide to the particle/wave conundrum. Here is an explanation of two basic principles in modern physics: 1) the new logic of the relationship of subject and object and 2) the random changes which occur to objective properties. Zukav explains one of the most important discoveries of science, the Copenhagen Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics. He elaborates upon how and why ideas about reality, i.e. the experimental situation, differ from the experience of reality. Instead, probability replaces the absolutes of past science. The 'communication' of particles over the space-time continuum suggests a concsiousness to the particles. He discusses wave-particle duality, Max Planck's constant, Einstein's theory of the photoelectric effect, Pauli's exclusion principle, Lorentz transformation, particle physics,  Bell's theorem, and quantum logic, plus much, much more. Zukav's gift is to distill complex ideas and simplify them for inquiring minds \\"who want to know\\" but are \\"afraid to ask\\" or don't even know where to begin to ask. He connects metaphysical principles and science. He acknowledges that the use of words is often inadequate to describe the mysterious events of quantum physics. There is an unbroken wholeness to reality which when observed by individuals renders a loss of recognition to the interconnectedness of life. Quantum physics proves the interconnectedness of all reality in ways that only the mystics and spiritual masters described in the past. In fact, both scientists and mystics are beginning to use the same word descriptions ... This is an excellent book for those who dare to ask \\"what's new in the world of science?\\" Zukav has the ability to simplify complex concepts and link them to metaphysical principles in a very readable manner. Highly recommended reading! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-03-06
US	48282789	R3OK5SKIKTHVUF	0870744216	965390435	The Earth and the Sky: Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Exotic Locations & Cultural Views: Stories about People	The title of the book, \\"The Earth and the Sky: Stories,\\" reminds me of either the Orient or Native American folklore. Reading several of the stories I learned much about the Chinese culture, specifically within the setting of Taipei as in \\"Dance of a Falling Comet\\". The author writes with crystal clear precision, capturing details of feeling and thought using a unique pallette of different colors. This story even had a sequel which completed the ideas and themes started by the other. The first story is set in Italy, where an American family rents a villa. The family includes two young daughters, Hannah and Jenny. There is a young lady who manages the villa and a wonderful horse named, Nocciola who becomes the hero in this very pleasant story. \\"Stone Daughter\\" takes place in Japan. An American woman returns to Japan, which is the ancestral home of her husband. He is the oldest son who must assume responsibilites for running the family pottery business. This intercultural marriage is filled with interesting insights and behaviors expected of the Japanese. Another story is set in the Grand Cayman Islands where snorkeling reveals the risks associated with viewing the wonders beneath the ocean ... The story which is set in Toulouse, France develops some unexpected twists and turns with a very surprise ending ... \\"Life as a Dragon\\" reveals a lot about cleverness and using one's intuiton with honor. \\"Down Under the Lake\\" is a story about a pre-teen girl whose parents are divorced who goes out boating with her older brother and the serious temptation which she survives. \\"Core Puncher\\" is a story about Lillian who chases tornadoes for excitement - she chases them from Oklahoma to Texas trying to capture them on film and video. There is a hidden reason behind her need to challenge nature ... This one brought occasional tears to my eyes as I learned more about Lillian and her life. All of the stories are marvelous, with vivid descriptions of people, places, and events that reveal feelings and values from different perspectives. Not all the stories end the way the reader expects ... The scintillating events about which the author writes, reveal the great depth and understanding she possesses. Sometimes there are competing emotions or values which must be resolved. She captures complex emotions that occur within specific social and cultural contexts. These stories are like delicately chiseled sculptures ... each is unique and must be viewed from different angles to be fully appreciated. It is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)eal feelings and values from different perspectives. Not all the stories end the way the reader expects ... The scintillating events about which the author writes, reveal the great depth and understanding she possesses. Sometimes there are competing emotions or values which must be resolved. She captures complex emotions that occur within specific social and cultural contexts. These stories are like delicately chiseled sculptures ... each is unique and must be viewed from different angles to be fully appreciated. It is highly recommended. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-02-20
US	48282789	R17TD549VA53	0759658919	167770894	Jay: A Spiritual Fantasy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	What would a spiritual savior be like today?	This book is a spiritual allegory based on Jesus returning to the world in modern times. First, he sends anonymous messages to ministers, pastors, reverends, priests, and preachers stating simply, \\"Come to me\\", \\"Follow me\\". Also, there is a rabbi among the group who plays a special role. Eventually all of them meet. They discuss theology on which none can agree ... Gradually at their gatherings Jay introduces thought-provoking questions and topics making them contemplate and question *their* faith. A few reach an understanding and recognition of \\"Who he is\\". Only one, the Greek Orthodox priest senses he has seen this man before, a man of olive complexion and deep brown eyes ... it later dawns on him, this is the  same face as depicted in icons. There are differences, questions, and even arguments based on Jay's teaching, his words are dissected and his actions criticized by some, especially the media. His unorthodox methodology comes to the attention of a popular TV talk-show host & hostess and the the *fun* really begins ...<br /><br />One effective twist in the plot is Jay's willingness to subject himself to a battery of validated psychological tests offered by a psychiatrist and the very *startling conclusion he draws ...The author builds up suspense and probes the hearts of Jay's followers. One of the most enjoyable writing techniques was the author's description of a \\"real event\\" in Jay's ministry which is then followed by the media headlines, portraying a \\"different\\" meaning and intent.<br /><br />This is superb writing!!! I did not know what to expect from a book on a subject of this magnitude ... I was pleasantly surprised and blessed! I was spell-bound from beginning to end - unable to put it down. I finished it *almost* but not quite at one reading. I highly recommend this book! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-02-13
US	48282789	R2CASEQ7CM8FAI	0533139759	323838051	Dawn of the Transcendence	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Disconnection, Transformation, Awakening	This book is about the transformation of a Youth disconnected from life and the people around him and the process of awakening into a young adult who is aware of life's possibilities ... Realistic and captivating right from the start, it is told in the third person always referring to the main character as, \\"the Youth\\". Somewhat disconcerting at first, one realizes this literary technique emphasizes the true disconnect the Youth has from himself. The author captures people and places with depth and detail. He gives us glimpses of the natural landscapes with the flora and fauna of New Mexico.  One sentence, in chapter one, encapsulates the essence of the novel: \\"The Youth, unaware of the magnitude of his philosophical deliberations, prepared to cut the very last swath of bluegrass.\\" This sentence prepares the reader for the journey which awakens the Youth to his full self ... From a safe distance, the third person, we enter the mind and feelings of the Youth as he relates to his everyday life as a high school senior, preparing to enter college. We know about his close friends, we know his insecurities around the opposite sex, and his relationship to his Granddad, Dad, Mom, and younger brother Paul, the successful athlete in the family. He wants to escape from Sanchez, the small town in New Mexico where he grew up ... In an unexpected way it is New Mexico, with it's unique energy vortex, and Roswell incident of the past, which provides the very link to an experience, either a dream or a \\"close encounter\\" which transforms the Youth into a risk taker, a more open person, one who is integrated, essentially a complete human being. This is an impressive first novel, an existential exploration of human nature, a highly recommended read. This reader is looking forward to a sequel or second novel by this gifted author.<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-02-05
US	48282789	R1ES4ZJCBRHPS3	068485256X	95652864	The Last Temptation of Christ	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Gripping, Powerful, Hypnotic	Kazantzakis' most controversial novel explores the humanity and<br />struggles of the Christ in ways the Bible merely implies and intimates. Every aspect of the New Testament version explodes  into gripping passionate emotional inner turmoil which you know is leading up to something BIG. The novel is extremely well written, every character is human, believable and has an individual personality of which aspects are magnified. The battle of the spirit is ever present. You identify with the torment and future possibilities. It is every person's struggle at some point in his or her life. The book is rich in detail and description which making you feel you are living in that era. The outcome is inevitable but the drama and intensity is enormous and spell-binding! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-02-01
US	48282789	R24OM655I494JX	0671272217	644175480	The Fratricides	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Village Life, Oppression, Struggle for Life	The life in the village revolves around the seasons, with accurate and colorful detail one senses the natural flow of \\"the way it should be\\" however there is an ominous \\"presence\\" that threatens the natural order of things ... The main characters are Father Yanaros and Captain Drakos, and the supporting cast includes, Leonidas the student, Hadjis the well-traveled one, Kyriakos, and Dimos an elderly peasant, Panagos (the barber), Kosmas, Stratis. Levi and a variety of others who feel like real people.. The struggle for freedom and the need to sustain life during oppression and occupation is intensified and illuminated. The resolution of social problems and role of religion and the church in balancing the good and evil in society is the main theme. The battle of the spirit against human frailties is  Kazantzakis' constant theme ... he excels in this area. This novel exemplifies the dynamic powers of description and characterization that has won Kazantzakis world-wide acclaim. Highly recommend this book to those who want to understand the constant battle to live in the midst of oppression. Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-02-01
US	48282789	R2DG77E2AKVN6B	1571780386	568709675	Beyond Fear: A Toltec Guide to Freedom and Joy, The Teachings of Don Miguel Ruiz	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not exactly a guide but solid principles & teachings	\\"Beyond Fear\\" does not go into \\"how to steps\\" of achieving freedom & joy but it certainly guides you through principles that are consistent with Don Miguel Ruiz teachings. In essence, people of power are those who are open, loving, and nonjudgemental: for them the universe is a place of wonder, exploration and adventure.<br /><br />What I liked most about the book is the way the author, Mary Carrol Nelson, weaves elements of Toltec knowledge & ceremonies into the book, along with biographical content. She describes personal experiences by Don Miguel Ruiz & his significant other \\"Gaya\\" that changed their lives. I liked the book! I would read anything by and about Don Miguel Ruiz....Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-01-31
US	48282789	R2MO5EV51Z1QGZ	0671252410	393936756	A Man	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Freedom Fighter, Lover, & Martyr ...	did the author write fact or fiction? Written from the perspectiove of personal experience one is left wondering ... did Oriana Fallaci *actually* know a person on whose life the novel is based? The story is about Alekos, a Greek patriot and political prisoner. It is written after the military rule in Greece (which occured in the mid-1970s). This is a gripping, powerful novel about a man who has solid convictions and beliefs. It shows you the strength and vulnerablilites of *one* individual who is caught in the midst of political changes, a man who remained true to his cause. He fought and loved on his terms. The literary technique, of a memoir is highly effective, the emotions and events depicted are *even* more penetrating and mysterious ... this is one novel I could not put down. Although first read in the mid-1980s it still has me spell-bound. I have recently reread it and the effect is still the same!<br />Erika Borsos (erikab93).	2003-01-31
US	48282789	R22Q3M0YDXPGUM	1559705280	26609841	Elegy for Kosovo: Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	600 Years Ago: the Battle in Kosovo ...	is told from the viewpoint of eyewitnesses. Although it is fiction: the message is clear, strong & real there are \\"rumors of impending war\\", \\"rumors of peace\\", \\"newly sealed alliances\\"  so the story begins. Kadare's use of natural imagery and poetical lyrical language is unsurpassed. You understand how the anxiety of the mountain people adds to the tensions as political alliances are created, ancient memories of past battles won and lost are discussed while musicians strum on the gusle & bards sing about the past. The Turks, Serbs & Bulgarians (Byzantine empire) and other kingdoms once existed in cohesion ... but now with rumours & past memories inflaming emotions. the inevitable occurs. This is one *great* epic story told in about 120 pages!!!! Amazing detail making one feel as if present on the battlefield itself! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-01-31
US	48282789	R1L9QIOPYFV0W8	1581410670	675518600	Miles of Experience	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Valuable "Experiences"  Worth Reading!	Imagine a close family friend who travels all over the world due to his job and when he comes home he has fantastic gifts and stories to share ... The tangible gifts could possibly be a silk scarf, a bottle of Russian vodka, a gold charm, or an intricately carved wooden box. Of the many gifts he brings, it is the stories that are the *most* *important*. The stories are beguiling, intruiging, mysterious, entertaining, charming and sometimes just plain sad but overall they are an all too truthful indictment on humanity. They take place in exotic and far away places, like Saudi Arabia, the Baltic Sea or Lithuania. Places such as Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon which could be viewed as ordinairy places also provide an interesting setting for a tale with a \\"surprise\\" ending! One thing is certain: when \\"Uncle\\" Boris tells a story all ears are listening!!! He sees the world in microscopic detail but also with a telescopic vision which is both entertaining and enlightening. He does not expose the raw ugly facts, but gently introduces a topic that is woven into the fabric of the story which then takes on a whole new significance. He tells the truth but does not offend anyone while doing so ... He is a master of the \\"surprise\\" ending but even when there is no surprise, at least you have a big smile on your face when you finish some of the stories! While many have \\"adult themes\\" there are others suitable for children. Rest assured, if Boris writes about an \\"experience\\", it is worth reading! He has mastered the \\"art\\" of story-telling and taken it to a new level. Being a well-travelled person, he is highly qualified to comment on what he has seen. For us it is a great reading experience! Erika Borsos (erikab93).	2003-01-10
US	48282789	R1XOVVV1AFAKQX	1580084168	646098066	Afghanistan: A Russian Soldier's Story	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Soldier's Experience in Words & Photos	It is a rare book that can describe how a boy-soldier becomes a man in two short years: this is one of those rare books. Cowardice, cunning, courage, selfishness, genorosity, human understanding and compassion: all these experiences are described or touched upon in the book. It is filled with snapshot experiences and recollections of fellow soldiers or the Afghani people that the author encountered. This book should be required reading in a college or university class about world history: it is a valid first-person account of the realities of the Russian experience in Afghanistan in the early 1980s.<br /><br />The story begins when the author was drafted and selected at random to be a mine-sweeper, a delicate and dangerous job. At the time, the Russian people were being told the soldiers are going to Afghanistan to help build roads and schools. Sadly, the goals of the conflict were not clear and therefore while the bodies of young dead soldiers were returning home: the \\"big lie\\" continued ... The author manages to capture in crystal clear terms the incongruities of war. He paints word pictures of events and situations: including friendships and bonds that developed with fellow soldiers. The clear need to be covered for potential snipers when performing the mine-sweeping duties is evident: trust is necessary. The cleverness of a superior to avoid being involved in any fighting where risk of death occurred is described. The selfish motives of a fellow soldier who is a \\"snitch\\" is described. The temptation to \\"take out\\" a fellow soldier who continually puts his mates lives in danger is mentioned ... The genorosity of Afghani villagers who were asked for fresh baked bread, which they provided, brings to mind that human beings still care and are compassionate toward strangers. The photographs of young soldiers, many of whom died in battle brings the reader face to face with the realities of war. The  loss of these innocent lives is a tragedy: sons, brothers, fathers, friends ... from this one can extrapolate the universal message provided by this \\"first person\\" account. Fortunately, the author survived, he served his time, but there is an emotional price paid for anyone who lives through such experiences. Essentially, it can only be understood by those who have experienced similar circumstances. Viet Nam Veterans visited the Russian soldiers who had survived the Afghanistan war: they provided an extraordinairy link and bond to help them assimilate the experiences and return to normal lives ... \\"soldiers helping soldiers\\". This is a story of innocence, courage, and eventually wisdom ... it is a great book to read! Erika Borsos (erikab93)ends ... from this one can extrapolate the universal message provided by this \\"first person\\" account. Fortunately, the author survived, he served his time, but there is an emotional price paid for anyone who lives through such experiences. Essentially, it can only be understood by those who have experienced similar circumstances. Viet Nam Veterans visited the Russian soldiers who had survived the Afghanistan war: they provided an extraordinairy link and bond to help them assimilate the experiences and return to normal lives ... \\"soldiers helping soldiers\\". This is a story of innocence, courage, and eventually wisdom ... it is a great book to read! Erika Borsos (erikab93)	2003-01-09
