US	48321260	R352SOTAIYI12M	0743448383	611629404	Rising Son (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	3	12	17	N	N	I fail to see how this is 4 or 5 star material.	Well, I finished reading Rising Son. I fail to see what was the big deal in the book though and I'm failing to see why it was given positive reviews on Amazon as well as Trekweb.com.<br />The main problems with the book is this:<BR>2/3's of the content is pointless. The only character that has any real impact on Jake is Dez, given the similarities with his father and himself. With that said, I'd find it hard to believe that we'll see Dez again unless S.D. Perry is writing the books herself (and if the Dominion is after them, I wouldn't count on it realistically either).<br />Another problem is that Jake was portrayed as a over-thinking,<BR>over-feeling female. Yep, I'm know that harsh but this wasn't Jake. If you replaced Jake with \\"Jessica\\" and took Star Trek off the cover, I don't think anyone would have had a clue it was supposed to be a guy, nevermind trying to attack Jake's character correctly.<br />Yet another problem is repetition. S.D. Perry constantly reminds you that Jake is thinking about his father, and she doesn't really say anything new or enlightening that she never already stated in Avatar, let alone the 10 or so character reflection she has added in Rising Son.  She constantly pushes this \\"love and lost theme\\", that is actually very apparant in the Avatar series and simply repeats that here again too.  I find that it's fairly easy to replace Julian, Kira, Vaughn, Ezri, Jake, etc. in any of S.D. Perry's reflection moments and (surprisingly), it makes sense for Perry's version of that character.  In Rising Son, it does the same for Jake.<br />Now, don't get me wrong, the book isn't absolutely crap or anything, however, I can see how people might become confused on the book \\"getting good\\" after page 100. By that time, the characters actually start to do stuff. So, the first third of the book is pure introduction, reflection and very little action.  If you can get by that, then the story (finally) begins.<br />Jake joins the crew and they start their first mission.  Unfortunately, Drang, the selling of the box and just about everything that happens here has very little if any real impact on the story. All this does is escalate other non-important events that nobody cares about. Maybe some of you care about this crew, but I didn't. Dez was the only interesting and tolerable crew member in the book basically at this point.  If you cared about the other characters, I have to ask why: they won't be back in future novels and Jake isn't going to think about them ever anyway.<br />Then the crew goes off doing more stuff, which is all essentially meaningless until they arrive at Ee (a station). Now, I figured since the book was 2/3's done, S.D. Perry had to get on with the story. Knowing that Jake finds Opaka (from the cover and from the ending of Lesser Evil), I figured that can happen one of two ways: Either they visit the moon and free her, or they happen to find her on their journey. Sure enough, she was on Ee.<br />Now, at this point, everything - literally - that happened before was pointless. This is where the story actually starts in my opinion, but quite frankly, 210 pages later, was it really worth it?<br />The thing is, any intelligent person before picking up this book<BR>didn't need to know about the Even Odds and they could have predicted (in some fashion) what took place in this book. Now, to give S.D. Perry some credit, the last 90 or 100 pages were interesting. I actually cared about Opaka's story, the new sister aliens next to the wormhole, the path the Prophets laid out for him not only to find Opaka, but to help in the B'Hala excavation. It gave Jake a real purpose to be here, but everything else before this is simply fluff. It would have been nice to see some dependancies, but there wasn't any.<br />Anyhow, the importance of Tosk was a nice touch too, however I didn't care for Wex either. She still has little importance, but I guess Unity will answer Wex's purpose soon enough (never read it).<br />Another disappointment was the Wa - it really didn't have any purpose for being there. It could have been absent from the entire story and quite frankly, it wouldn't have changed the execution of the last third of the novel at all. It could have been very readable without the Wa or the Even Odds crew and their stupid adventures altogether.<br />In the end, Jake and Opaka were the only two characters I even cared about, as it should be I suppose. But I wish Opaka had been found much earlier since that wasn't much of a surprise finding her in the first place. In fact, the only real surprise (if you can call it that) is the importance of tosk and the new relationship of the planet to Bajor - that's it. Everything else could have been omitted or assumed, which doesn't make for an entertaining read unfortunately.<br />Oh, and Weyoun could have had much better dialog. That wasn't Weyoun either I'm afraid.<br />In the end, I'd give the book 2 1/2 out of 5 stars. There isn't enough payoff here to warrant anything higher. With inaccurate characterization of Jake and Weyoun, and a lot of unimportant events that take huge amounts of space, I just can't recommend this book unless you are reading it to complete the series. Frankly, I would have been happy to see the last 100 pages of the story be sliced into the Mission Gamma books. That would have been a lot better from my perspective.<br />I'm sure a number of you will disagree and will refuse to give this review positive votes.  Too many people just want to see positive reviews on anything Star Trek when they are a serious fan.  That's unfortunate, because this story really isn't that great as people claim it to be and even outside of Star Trek, I'm sure you could find something else better to read than Rising Son as well.  What a shame.	2004-01-17
US	48321260	RFNRBT08Q4VRT	1861008074	438112785	Professional PHP Web Services	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Why so many bad reviews?	Why so many bad reviews?  Many of the authors are mad because the company had went out of business and many of them did not get paid royalty fees.  In response, it is no doubt that they would wish the publisher to not profit from their own work - there is no justice in that.  The truth is that this book is quite good, but due to the circumstances surrounding the entire thing, there is a lot of negativity in the air.  I would suggest that you buy the book on its merits rather than the reviews, which I can only honestly suspect are all written by constituents in one form or another with different agendas.	2003-09-29
US	48321260	RA6ZJP9JQMK17	0671785540	196342352	Diplomatic Implausibility (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 61)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fantastic book	After a long string a reading mediocre books (like Do Comets Dream?), I find myself looking at one that is truly a pleasure to read.  Keith R.A. DeCandido has certainly outdone himself here.  This was the first time I've had the experience to enjoy his work, but I will definitely be getting more of his titles, namely the upcoming I.K.S. Gorkon duology and Gateways - 4 of 7 - Demons Of Air And Darkness.<br />Now, there are two main things this book is about.  One is to introduce (I think anyway) the I.K.S Gorkon crew, which is a new ship in the Klingon fleet.  The other is to show some of Worf's new challenges as Federation Ambassador to the Klingon Empire.  For the former point, Keith goes past the typical Klingon archetypes and really makes this crew come to life.  In fact, the Captain (Klag) reminisces about how strange and unique his crew is compared to typical Klingon vessels.  The crew is very likeable and is engineered so that interesting and natural conflicts arise throughout the story (and, no doubt, future stories).  For the later point, we get to see how Worf deals with the losses of the Dominion War and accepts the new challenges that await him as ambassador, which provides a lot of rich character development throughout the story.  Even in diplomacy, his honor and his ability to remain a warrior are constantly tested.  It's interesting that a quote from season 4 (spoken by Curzon) says, &quot;The only people who can really handle the Klingons are Klingons\\".  That is very true in this book, making Worf a very logical and natural choice to handle the intense diplomatic situation that unfolds.<br />What makes this book really special is not just the plot (which is very good), but that it's true to the characters (old and new).  When you read the words of Worf, Martok, Riker or any of the other characters, you can really hear the actors speaking the dialog in your mind.  Keith goes much further than that, though.  While the story remains in the 3rd person, Keith does a great job letting you know how the characters think and reflect on the situations around him.  Even Riker's experiences aboard a Klingon vessel in TNG's season 2 are of key importance to his actions in the story.  Most of the time, I couldn't help but smile as I was completely absorbed and convinced that these characters were exactly as I remembered them from TNG and DS9.  <br />The book is also true to established continuity as well.  There are many times where Worf reflects on the death of Jadzia or Kah'lar, as they have a direct and significant impact on the story itself.  Worf's history in Starfleet and the aftermath of the Dominion War are also big events that this story has drawn from.  It makes everything fit into place very nicely as you get the feeling that the story is a logical consequence of these events, yet interesting enough that you'll want to read about it.<br />Commander Riker and Dr. Crusher also make appearances, as they do have a history with several of the crew members of the I.K.S Gorkon.   Rather than some books just putting them in for the sake of familiarity, or perhaps for marketing reasons, Keith takes a different approach.  Since this is a book about Worf and the I.K.S. Gorkon, the author makes sure he develops the *right* characters.  In each case, Crusher helps bring out the passions of B'Oraq, the Chief Medical Officer aboard the ship, and likewise, Riker helps make Klag into more than just a one-dimensional character (which seems like a one-purpose adversary to Worf at the beginning of the book).<br />Another aspect that I really like the book is that every paragraph is important to the plot or its characters.  I'm not a big fan of books that use so much description that you could just remove it from the book and it wouldn't change a thing.  I think the English language can be somewhat clumsy if it's used incorrectly, trying to describe every detail as if you were really trying to show a picture or a movie.  But no, Keithdoesn't do that.  Every paragraph is relative to the plot or explains why the characters are reacting or thinking the way they do.  Every plot point is intelligently graphed into the whole.  I guess the best to describe it is that it's efficient yet emotional and captivating at the same time, which is typically the writing style I enjoy best.<br />So if you haven't read Diplomatic Implausibility now, you should definitely pick it up.  While I'm not sure if the plots in this novel correlate to the Left Hand of Destiny (which I'm reading that now), there is lot to like here and it's an excellent addendum to the shows.  This could have been very well been a real episode, as there was no indication that it was a case of bad fan fiction or contrived storytelling at all.  This is one is great.	2003-07-28
US	48321260	R38F7V5RO46TDH	0743456823	327925438	The Lives of Dax (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not as good as most people, but still a worthwhile read.	While I don't agree that \\"The Lives of Dax\\" is a 5-star outing as many of the reviewers, it is a quality compilation of short stories that offer a worthwhile read.  As with any anthology, there are bound to be better stories than others, and that is certainly the case with The Lives of Dax.  I'm still new to the Star Trek books and audio books (having only read 6 or 7 of them), but I'm confident that I know enough about the authors and the potential quality these stories should offer.  So given my reading experiences, I'm going to gauge them according to the worse and best books I've read in the series.<br />Some of the stories are quite good, such as:<BR>Ezri, Lela, Curzon, Jadzia<br />While some are just okay:<BR>Torias, Audrid, Joran, Tobin<br />And some of them are quite bad.. mainly:<BR>Emony<br />If the editor would have ensured that each host deliberately influenced the next within each story (showing some continuity), I think that would have ultimately made the book better.  Since all the stories are disconnected (aside from being hosts of the same symbiont) we don't really get the feeling there is a `bigger picture' or an overall purpose of the symbiont itself.  I think that would have taken this book to even greater heights, but sadly, they simply did the bare minimum in my opinion and made a low-cost book of several disconnected short stories.  The only real continuing arc is the evolution of Trill society, being a bunch of xenophobes and becoming active members of the Federation.  I just think the arcs should have also dealt with the characters too - that was the point of the book, right?  For this reason, and the fact that 5 out of 9 stories are worth reading, I only give it 3 stars out of 5.	2003-07-21
US	48321260	R29TW3B7KJQ9M0	0743411307	632286354	Do Comets Dream? (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Don't waste your time with this one	The book starts off well for the first 100 pages, as we learn about a xenophobic and highly religious race that wants to die by the means of a comet that arrives every 5000 years.  It has a very strict caste system and a bunch of stuff is really messed up, but they are okay with it.  The beginning reads much like a real Star Trek episode that you would expect from the 4th season (I got that feeling anyway).  However, but the book is seperated into 4 parts, each clearly dealing with a new aspect/transition of the story, but the 3rd part is simply rubbish (Pages 130-200 basically). <br />When I closed in on page 200, I decided this book was really bad. My reasons for not liking the book are not because of the canon/continuity (as some people have stated), but the book is just really poorly written past page 130.  This section isn't polished and there is much confusion.  The author uses &quot;he thought&quot; and &quot;he said&quot; all the time, never referring to who is saying what.  Since everyone in that dragon machine is linked to the past and contains all these new parallel characters with no introductions, it's very mind boggling. <br />I can't get over all the characters' names (which are up to 5 words long) and the actual language itself used in the book. It's as if every strange word begins with a 't' (except for that halluciation drink, that begins with a 'p') and they range from 8-20 letters long.  It was very hard to understand what the heck the author was talking about half the time.<br />I think using Data as a conduit for linking the past and the future worlds was never well stated or described and it's hard to build nice mental pictures.  Many times people would move from one place to another and no explanation would be given.  Other times people would be the mother or brother of someone else, but you'd find this out chapters later.  <br />The scenes where Deanna is connected with the boy in the comet are equally confusing. Most of the dialog never makes any sense and it keeps referring to all these proper nouns that have a very specific meaning.  The problem is that they are only mentioned once and are never defined so you have no idea what the author is talking about. Then he mentions more specific religious items and figures as if we are supposed to be familiar with all this background material.  I find that really hard to believe that anyone could know the background of these twin planets and their religion as well as the author just by reading any of this stuff.  You'd have to read it 2 or 3 times unless you are Data himself.<br />I believe this is a very mediocre piece of science fiction. I believe the author just used Star Trek: TNG as a launching pad for his crazy story in the first place. Pages 130-200 are just filled with rubbish.  I don't know what the author or Pocket Books was thinking when they put the Star Trek label on this one. It's not even a real Star Trek story anymore...<br />However, I did find it interesting that one advanced race built the comet and these biological machines and are using them to destroy the civilization, building an entire religion around it, but all the fluff and disconnected conversations and explanations talked about nothing.<br />At leat I found the last 65 pages (part 4) was a lot better. The ending was actually pretty cool how everything was fulfilled and how the minor characters actually had a purpose, except for Envig that is - he was a useless character except for a convenient plot device in a few occasions at the beginning of the book.<br />I would advise all to stay very much away from this one.  I'm not sure all these 5 star votes are warrented.  I too have written books and I know what's it like to have the publisher or friends hype the book.  Many of them are also anonymous and that makes me wonder about their validity.  This book really isn't worth your money.  Try some other TNG or DS9 books instead, like A Stitch in Time, which is a great book.	2003-07-21
US	48321260	RF19TAI8WVEU7	0671896776	569987566	Crossover (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	2	5	14	N	N	Bah	I'm curious why so many people gave this book 5 stars.  I'm guess I'm equally curious why I'm giving it 2 stars.  After all, I love the Romulans and I always wanted to see a follow up to the unification story from the Next Generation television series.  But, this isn't how I would have wanted it to be at all.<br />For one, this story has Spock, McCoy and Scott.  Now, even though I didn't care for the Original series (I'm sorry, it's just too old and cheesy for the next generation star trek fan myself), this was a major turn off for me.  I love Spock, because he's just interesting and Vulcans have always been integral to Star Trek, however, I think it's contrived that a 140 year old doctor would be an Admiral in Starfleet where he should probably be growing tomatoes in his back yard (and yes, I am aware that he's probably not entirely human anymore to make him live that old).  The conflict that arises with him and Picard is just absurd and I didn't find it entertaining at all.  McCoy ends up taking over the ship because he's too prideful of the old ways and is too old to make the right decisions.  Picard actually has the right idea to handle the situation and it probably would have worked if stupid Scott and McCoy had not come along and interfered.  It was Starfleet's fault for sending them in the first place and they should have been thrown out of Starfleet long ago.  I'm also not one to favour cowboy diplomacy - that's just not how the Next Generation should be.  I prefer more intelligent conflict and scenarios than some pointless holy crusade to perfect order and justice in the universe.  Needless to say, I was somewhat insulted that they made Picard out to be a weak leader in these matters.<br />So while the McCoy plot was just dumb in my opinion, Scott was just as bad.  I just felt the only reason they brought him back was to save his friend Spock, but he could have easily been omitted too.  The fact is, the story concentrated so much on Scott, McCoy and Spock that it wasn't even a Next Generation book - it was an original series story that takes place in the Next Generation era.  It shouldn't have even been a Next Generation story to begin with.<br />I find it hard to believe that the current Enterprise crew would be taken so much to save Scott and I also find it hard to believe Picard would \\"give in\\" to let them go on the mission - he's not one to change his mind, especially when he knows he is correct the first time.  He is convinced (and I would still like to know how, since Friedman didn't reflect on this) to let Riker, Data and Geordie on a rescue mission to save Scott against his better judgment, but they get caught and it (silently) proves that it was a stupid move anyway.  McCoy must be a genius for suggesting such a stupid thing.  It's not something a competent leader like Picard would have authorized in the first place.  This just shows the author had no concept or respect for the Next Generation characters.  Every just served the plot.<br />That's not all, though.  Since the story focuses on the original series' characters, you can expect zero character development from the Next Generation crew.  In fact, you can expect a lack of involvement in the story as a whole, as they are only there to fill the needs of the plot at all times, never using the characters themselves to their strengths - just their standard responsibilities.  In my opinion, this sad excuse for an audio book is just a plain adventure story and it doesn't have any period of enlightenment or real big reward when you finished listening to it.  I thought this was supposed to be Next Generation, not Indiana Jones or Star Wars or some other story that mimics the same formula.   Michael Jan Friedman is to blame for all of this.<br />The last big complaint is that you already know what's going to happen most of the way through without much thought.  The only mystery that book contains is the outrageous crap that Scott or McCoy try to pull, which isn'tvery intelligent at all - it's needless conflict that we should be able to write beyond.  There is no mystery to the story at all, and in most of the book, Michael Jan Friedman spends his time writing about the Romulans figuring out Starfleet's deception (as if the Pro-council were Sherlock Holmes I suppose).  Well, no one really cares if the Romulans figure it out or not because they are the most minor characters in the story.  Since the audience knows of Starfleet's deception and the very likely outcome that ensues, you have no pressing need to care about the Romulans at all in this story because you already know the answers.<br />It was also contrived how Michael Jan Friedman introduced a new race called the Stug, which actually no had relevance throughout the entire story except to get McCoy a way out in the end.  This just sounds so contrived.  For one, it's not even a race we know, and secondly, that also suggests that they aren't much of a threat an empire as large as the Romulans.  The fact that they were sending ships to the Stug border was preposterous - they have millions of ships.  They wouldn't send that many to just a single system and no non-aligned race would be able to cope with it.  The point?  To make McCoy learn a valuable and so that he could save the day (and likewise, show that Picard didn't know the solution).  This is just disgusting and contrived storytelling.<br />I really tried to enjoy this story, but the integration of the original series characters, the lack of character development, contrived used of the Next Generation characters and a lack of mystery story make this a bad choice.  Don't pay attention to all these 5-star ratings you see on the site.  I really hate to say it, but they are probably 50 year olds who are clouded by their nostalgia and love for the original series that it has blinded them to see just how bad of a story this one really is.	2003-07-07
US	48321260	R1ZXT2D054L1QS	7215969789	659021930	Fiction: Star Trek Crossover	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Bah.  ...	I'm curious why so many people gave the audio version of this book 5 stars.  I'm guess I'm equally curious why I'm giving it 2 stars.  After all, I love the Romulans and I always wanted to see a follow up to the unification story from the Next Generation television series.  But, this isn't how I would have wanted it to be at all.<br />For one, this story has Spock, McCoy and Scott.  Now, even though I didn't care for the Original series (I'm sorry, it's just too old and cheesy for the next generation star trek fan myself), this was a major turn off for me.  I love Spock, because he's just interesting and Vulcans have always been integral to Star Trek, however, I think it's contrived that a 140 year old doctor would be an Admiral in Starfleet where he should probably be growing tomatoes in his back yard (and yes, I am aware that he's probably not entirely human anymore to make him live that old).  The conflict that arises with him and Picard is just absurd and I didn't find it entertaining at all.  McCoy ends up taking over the ship because he's too prideful of the old ways and is too old to make the right decisions.  Picard actually has the right idea to handle the situation and it probably would have worked if stupid Scott and McCoy had not come along and interfered.  It was Starfleet's fault for sending them in the first place and they should have been thrown out of Starfleet long ago.  I'm also not one to favour cowboy diplomacy - that's just not how the Next Generation should be.  I prefer more intelligent conflict and scenarios than some pointless holy crusade to perfect order and justice in the universe.  Needless to say, I was somewhat insulted that they made Picard out to be a weak leader in these matters.<br />So while the McCoy plot was just dumb in my opinion, Scott was just as bad.  I just felt the only reason they brought him back was to save his friend Spock, but he could have easily been omitted too.  The fact is, the story concentrated so much on Scott, McCoy and Spock that it wasn't even a Next Generation book - it was an original series story that takes place in the Next Generation era.  It shouldn't have even been a Next Generation story to begin with.<br />I find it hard to believe that the current Enterprise crew would be taken so much to save Scott and I also find it hard to believe Picard would \\"give in\\" to let them go on the mission - he's not one to change his mind, especially when he knows he is correct the first time.  He is convinced (and I would still like to know how, since Friedman didn't reflect on this) to let Riker, Data and Geordie on a rescue mission to save Scott against his better judgment, but they get caught and it (silently) proves that it was a stupid move anyway.  McCoy must be a genius for suggesting such a stupid thing.  It's not something a competent leader like Picard would have authorized in the first place.  This just shows the author had no concept or respect for the Next Generation characters.  Every just served the plot.<br />That's not all, though.  Since the story focuses on the original series' characters, you can expect zero character development from the Next Generation crew.  In fact, you can expect a lack of involvement in the story as a whole, as they are only there to fill the needs of the plot at all times, never using the characters themselves to their strengths - just their standard responsibilities.  In my opinion, this sad excuse for an audio book is just a plain adventure story and it doesn't have any period of enlightenment or real big reward when you finished listening to it.  I thought this was supposed to be Next Generation, not Indiana Jones or Star Wars or some other story that mimics the same formula.   Michael Jan Friedman is to blame for all of this.<br />The last big complaint is that you already know what's going to happen most of the way through without much thought.  The only mystery that book contains is the outrageous [stuff]that Scott or McCoy try to pull, which isn't very intelligent at all - it's needless conflict that we should be able to write beyond.  There is no mystery to the story at all, and in most of the book, Michael Jan Friedman spends his time writing about the Romulans figuring out Starfleet's deception (as if the Pro-council were Sherlock Holmes I suppose).  Well, no one really cares if the Romulans figure it out or not because they are the most minor characters in the story.  Since the audience knows of Starfleet's deception and the very likely outcome that ensues, you have no pressing need to care about the Romulans at all in this story because you already know the answers.<br />I really tried to enjoy this story, but the integration of the original series characters, the lack of character development, contrived used of the Next Generation characters and a lack of mystery story make this a bad choice.  Don't pay attention to all these 5-star ratings you see on the site.  I really hate to say it, but they are probably 50 year olds who are clouded by their nostalgia and love for the original series that it has blinded them to see just how bad of a story this one really is.	2003-07-07
US	48321260	R24KRPXANRR5K	0671759582	912995167	Star Trek Next Generation Q in-Law	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Quality ST Audio Book	I must say, this is one of the better audio books I've heard.  John Delancy is a great narrator and he does very impressive imitations of Picard, Worf and other characters in the story (the voice acting is almost perfect actually).  Majel Barette also does a very good Diana Troi, in addition to her own character.  Thus, as far as the dialog and narration are concerned, as well as sound effects and background music, this audio book is a real winner.  In this respect, I give the book 5 stars as most narrators can't pull the same sense of pace and excitement and can't provide convincing voice acting like John Delancy can.<br />Peter David is known to be a more comical writer than most, so if that is the kind of story you were expecting, you'll be very pleased.  You'll probably laugh out loud a few times at least, or something is wrong with you.<br />However, I give the story only 3 stars, because it doesn't really develop any of the characters except for Q and Luaxanna Troi.  The rest of the characters are just present, don't move the story along and aren't the center of attention.  While Picard has some good dialog and Worf is definately his usual self, this is really a story about Q and Luaxanna.  The story isn't incredibly enlightening or anything and Q is up to his usual things, so it's not really a masterpiece and it's not one of the best Star Trek novels I've read or listened to.  It is, however, a delightful 120 minute diversion from life and that's probably what it was intended to be.<br />Thus, overall, I give this audio book 4 stars.	2003-07-07
US	48321260	R37OI0GZNXN6L4	0671038850	757593145	A Stitch in Time (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine #27)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wow, I loved this book.	I've only read a few star trek books - Millennium books 1 and 2, q-in-law, crossover and fallen heroes - but I have to honestly say, A Stitch in Time is the best that I have read, period.<br />To be even more honest, this book is more than just a DS9 book - it takes a very deep and life-like look at the character Elim Garak.  You get the most intimate look into his mind and Andrew Robinson delivers the dialog impecably well.  You can feel the lonefulness, playful nature of the character and learn the motivations and reasons behind his actions and habits.  Andrew Robinson has done an amazing job illustrated Cardassian thinking and culture.  Even in the smallest of details, you know Mr. Robinson is true to Cardassian political structure, paradigms and visual architecture.<br />Even if your not a DS9 fan, the story on its own sad yet funny and mysterious yet conforting.  It's just a very well written book and a very entertaining read.  If you are a DS9 fan, you won't be disappointed.  Having been a major fan of the DS9 television (above TNG, Voyager or Enterprise), this book certainly enhances your knowledge, appreciation and fascination with DS9 and especially with the character Garak.  I highly recommend this one.	2003-07-06
US	48321260	R2BJMNRQ0FM7H1	0671024019	991707493	The Fall of Terok Nor (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 1 of 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Some great ideas, but not polished	Millennium, Book I: The Fall of Terok Nor is a fairly decent book.  It was good enough that I read it in just a few days, savoring for the next volume in the trilogy.    Having not read any Trek novels, I wasnt really sure what to expect.  I was happy to see that the authors managed to understand and articulate the characters thoughts and dialog just as well as Michael Pillar or Steven Ira Behr could  well, almost.   They didnt get Kai Winn right and Jadzia could have been more, I dunno, eccentric possibly?  The part about Nog and Jake and the Vulcan Love Slave program was a little too much.  I tried really hard to go back to an episode where they even joked about it or showed any interest in Quarks adult programs and couldnt come up with a reference.  Im sure they could have just removed it.  The book also mentioned various parts about Quark wanting his Moogie, but if I recall correctly, it was Rom that sucked up to his Moogie all the time.   Bashir was a little off too, but thats really nitpicking I guess.  The rest of my comments ring true though and youll probably notice it yourself if you read it.<br />For a novel, I guess you have to expect conversations to be particularly long.  I have no problem with that as I can understand the television shows are limited to 40 or 80 minutes to tell a story, thus dialog is usually short and sweet as possible.  It actually makes sense that if these characters were real, they would probably converse amongst each other in this fashion.  However, I must have thought to myself too many times that the length of some of these conversations didnt feel like a DS9 production - it was always popping into my mind time and again.  Jadzia and Worfs holosuite simulation, Terrells conversations with Sisko on the Y-class moon and many others were the main contributors.  I would say that at least 5 chapters could have been cut down considerably as they offered no further reward in the story and werent displaying any conflict or enlightening dialog.<br />Surprisingly, I also found it easy to distinguish who probably wrote which chapters.  While I dont know the exact individual (the wife or the husband), I could probably group the chapters into two columns with 90% accuracy (that is, if I had a way to verify that of course).  The chapters in the first column were excellent while the other column were simply average, moving the story along but obviously could have been better.  The chapters about rescuing quark or the fighting with the thieves in his bar were particularly unmoving  I just didnt care for some reason and was itching to tell the writers to get on with the story.  These scenes should have been cool, but for some reason I just didnt care, so I attribute to poor writing than anything.  The conversations with Quark and Odo were also long at the beginning.  While some of the dialog captured the characters rather well, some of it didnt.  I think Quark was the real problem here, asking too many questions and being more concerned than he usually is.  While they made up for it at various times in the book, it just didnt seem right.  Or, maybe it was Odo who should have uninitiated the conversations to begin with.  Either way, these was only self-serving to the plot and didnt feel natural.<br />There are some really good scenes with a new Bajoran commander talking with Sisko, and later with OBrien.  The new commanders view about Bajoran religion was extremely refreshing and it would have been great if the show had looked more into these issues.  I dont agree that a person of the rank Commander would be so nervous and unsure of herself (as shown later on in the novel after these conversations with Sisko and OBrien), but I suppose the writers have some reason for that in book 2 perhaps?  If they dont, they should have made her a simple Lieutenant as someone with that lackluster character could never be a Commander I mean, comparing her to Riker, or Sisko in season 1 just doesnt draw a nice happy conclusion there.<br />Another small complaint is that they use Vic in the story.  This was bad on a few levels.  Firstly, they were trying to jam in too many characters  the Prylar, the 3 Cardassians, Vash, Base, the 3 Andorians, etc.  throwing in another character didnt help the story.  Secondly, his role was only self-serving to the plot because the writers couldnt come up with a way to get the crew out of a holographic security cell.  I personally dont like how the writers cop-out like this  it reminds me too much about the novels bad points.<br />The writers really knew Chief OBrien, however.  If I didnt know any better, I could have sworn it was really him.  From all the things about his viewpoints in engineering to his caring about his family, and his actions throughout the book, it just felt like they hit a sweet spot.  Perhaps the writers had a personal connection with the character as they watched the television show themselves.<br />Overall, its an okay book.  Maybe it should have received 3 1/2 stars instead.  The ending was certainly pretty good and Im looking forward to see what happens, if anything else.  I hope they learned from the mistakes I listed above so that the second installment can be a lot better.  And before you start thinking Im not a Star Trek fan, I really am.  Ive loved the DS9 series the most and Ive watched every episode from TNG, DS9, Voyager and Enterprise.  I tried to be fair and give this book and honest review.  Thanks for listening.	2003-07-02
US	48321260	R141KXAEF5DDZ8	0735712271	632225103	XML and PHP	Books	1	21	26	N	N	0 stars.  This book is crap	I decided to purchase both Wrox's Professional PHP4 XML and New Rider's XML and PHP.  Now, I'm not a dumb guy.  I've been programming for awhile, but I'm still learning all the time.  I like to build object oriented code in PHP as I believe it's the best way to go for several tasks (although not all).  I'm still learning how to apply design patterns and the like and I find that very interesting.  So when I pick up a book, I really want to see an author care about objects rather than putting all his code in the toilet - That's what this book does.<br />Even further, the examples are so basic and the chapters don't explain anything beyond those examples either.  I'm surprised people found this book useful since everything is obvious that those university computer science monkeys who are still learning Windows can figure this book out.<br />But where are the best practices?  Where are the examples used within an object oriented architecture?  Do you think we are idiot programmers who only know how to code procedural programs that all reside within a single server page.  Get real.<br />On the other hand, I was very impressed with the Wrox book.  Although some of the intro chapters were fairly useless (since they covered intro to PHP concepts and so forth), the chapters talking about SAX, DOM, XSLT and XML-RPC are much better and totally outshine this book's counterparts.  They even discuss Object oriented programs in all most cases and will provide you both versions a lot of the time!  Even further, the Wrox book shows you various examples about solving common problems.  I actually think the authors showed me all the potential problems you can have for that matter; they were pretty detailed, especially in the SAX and XSLT chapters.<br />After reading some of the reviews about XML and PHP, such as \\"This book doesn't suck\\" or Manual Lemos's review (a guy who contributes a lot of PHP code to the community) stating \\"this book was the best on PHP and XML available\\", it's obvious that they have ties to the author and want to see him succeed.  Don't let them pull you in - this book isn't even worth the sympathy.  <br />Xi Chi's review was right on the bull's eye.  I should have listened to it and so should you.  Avoid this book like the plague and get Wrox's PHP4 XML book instead.	2002-12-08
US	48321260	R2V0IHLPVVI3U6	0321127420	356087712	Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture	Books	3	299	369	N	N	Would have been a great book 2-3 years ago	First, I'd like to say that I think Marin Fowler is awesome. I've been a long time fan of his and I really enjoy his talks and his books. So when you read this review, you can tell that it pains me to write what I have to say. I don't want to rip apart his book so that he potentially sells fewer copies - that's not my intention at all. By writing 3 books myself, I appreciate that authors don't make a lot of money for developing the book itself. Usually people like Martin write books for the experience and to generally help people. <br />That being said, many developers will unfortunately not find this book very useful. Many of the patterns Martin shows us have a lot of dependency on the platform you are using to implement the application. For instance, if you use Microsoft's .NET platform, you are going to be leaning towards a Table Module instead of a Domain Model. If you do not use a Table Module, you will not be able to take advantage of a considerable amount of functionality that is provided for you within the .NET platform. In Java, the same is true; the Table Module doesn't look as appealing if you are using EJBs, JDO or even Hibernate - you won't ever consider it. <br />Many of the patterns in the book have this characteristic described above, so architects won't actually learn anything from them. In other words, architects will not be able to take advantage of these alternate design patterns without some initial headaches that are often not worth it because the platform they use restricts and penalizes their usage. <br />Another complaint about the book is that many of the patterns are already available as frameworks. For instance, many of the presentation patterns are handled by frameworks like Struts or Webwork. In these cases, learning about the patterns that are associated with these frameworks will provide little value.  These patterns have already been discussed many times before in other books like \\"Advanced Java Server Pages\\" for example. <br />The same could also be said for persistence frameworks of O/R mapping tools. There is literally over a 100 pages (in a 500 page book) that talk about lazy loads, unit of work, locking strategies, metadata patterns and inheritance mappings. Although sometimes they are useful, in most situations the developers would be abstracted away from all these underlying mechanics using a good persistence framework or O/R mapping tool. I realize not all that the this is true, but implementing Martin's suggestions would take a month or two alone if you didn't buy anything off the shelf - that's too much time to waste. Martin should have talked more about these tools and the patterns they currently implemented instead as this is a more pragmatic approach. <br />Martin also doesn't talk about the load-on-startup servlet that can be used to store application-scoped values in the ServletContext (for J2EE systems) in his Registry pattern. This was unfortunate because many non-ejb systems use this approach. Considering the book advocates using POJOs, JDO or JDBC instead of EJBs (which is sound advice in practice for most systems), they didn't cover the registry alternates for this approach. Many of us use containers like Resin because they are extremely fast and have no need for EJB development. <br />Coming from three different environments myself (PHP, .NET and J2EE), I was disappointed that I didn't learn anything from this book. I had, in fact, learned about many of these patterns on my own, but didn't exactly know what they were called. This left me disappointed, but it's not Martin's fault. I don't mean to build me up that I know everything, but I think I've reached a plateau when it comes to designing and architecting systems - I'm good at it. If you happen to be a good designer too and you think you might want to broaden your knowledge, then this book won't help in those areas. If this book doesn't, I don't think you'll find another book that will either. So again, this isn't Martin's fault. <br />Now before you say something, Martin explicitly states in his book that many experienced designers *will not* learn much. He mentions more than a few times that this book is meant to enhance the communication between architects and designers more than anything and that it is meant to be a documented repository of patterns that we know as an industry and use over and over. I completely agree with these statements. Thus, the book has value in these regards and it will definitely help the industry evolve and mature. <br />I know I've said some negative things about the book, but let's face it - this is Martin Fowler! The quality and style of the writing is top notch and the organization of the information couldn't have been better. The explanations and examples are very clear and this book is what it claims to be. In this respect, the book should be regarded as the best in its market. <br />I would advocate purchasing this book in combination with \\"EJB Design Patterns\\" and \\"Expert One-On-One: J2EE Design and Development\\" for the J2EE developer. As for you .NET folks, I have no idea. From experience, I suspect that .NET developers will have even less use for this book since Microsoft has limited your choices about design in favour of simplifying the platform. That's one of the major differences between J2EE and .NET, and Martin can't control that either.<br />Overall, this is a good book. I give it only 3 stars, however, because of the initial problems described above.	2002-11-23
US	48321260	RIS8CR6P356XW	1861007213	775684906	Professional PHP4 XML	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Some Thoughts About The Books Goals	Hi, my name is Ken Egervari and I am one the authors which make available this great title to you fellow PHP programmers and XML enthusiasts.  Seeing as I wrote 3 chapters (SAX, DOM and XSLT) as well as the Object Oriented Programming appendix, you might assume there is a conflict of interest with this review.  Let me assure you, despite my involvement with this title, I promise to be objective and simply state the goals of the book.  This really isn't a review as some thoughts about the book.<br />After receiving my copy, I've been reading the entire book and as a whole, Professional PHP4 XML covers every inch of these topics in fantastic detail.  I sincerely believe that new-comers to XML (and even PHP) will definitely find a wealth of information to get them started and expert programmers will enjoy the rich, deep knowledge contained in each subject, demonstrating the experience and thoroughness of all the authors who contributed to make this book the very best.<br />To start off my review, I want to take a look at the chapters in which I contributed, making clear to you the goals of each topic.  Unlike many PHP books on the market, I didn't 'just' want to demonstrate the concepts and APIs; I really wanted to engage the reader into thinking creatively about their PHP applications by thinking about architecture and design and sharing valuable insights in areas concerned weather it be programming issues, common solutions to recurring problems, best practices, or changes to the APIs in future releases.  Given that I am as much of a businessman as an architect, I also wanted to reader to consider the various business-related issues with each technology by providing valuable insight on the consequences to using these technologies in your organization.  I wanted to enlighten the reader rather than bore them with functional descriptions and basic examples.  As you read the book, you'll clearly see the book lives up to these goals.<br />My first task was to write a chapter on SAX.  I've read many chapters on SAX from other texts or articles on the Internet, but I really wanted to take this one over and beyond what was already out there.  Besides looking at the core concepts, process and various implementations, I explain in detail on how to create highly reusable, maintainable parsers by making use of object-oriented technology.  I further explained how to deal with common problems when parsing erroneous generated XML content.  Given that there are many hacked up Web Service-like URLs and XML generators out there, this section was much needed.<br />The DOM chapter continues teaching the reader about XML parsering by diving into the details on creating and manipulating DOM trees using PHP 4.2.1 and 4.3.0.  This is something no book on the market has at the time of this review.  The chapter shows countless number of examples to ensure the reader understands how to construct trees.  The chapter dives into the architecture of DOM parsers and suggests much easier ways to simplify the construction of your applications.  Given the DOM API is still new, the chapter outlines many of its current limitations and problems in great detail, ensuring the reader doesn't get fowled up in any dirty business that they can't fix without starring at their monitor for several hours only to see it's a problem with the API itself.  This chapter discusses several larger applications that are interactive using HTML forms to show the reader how to construct XML content in an organized manner.<br />The last chapter, XSLT, discussed most of the XSLT standard as well as its use within PHP.  This is useful since you don't need to purchase another XSLT book in the future as this chapter, as well as the appendix, should provide you with all the knowledge you'll need for years to come.  Given that XSLT isn't used as much as it should, I spent a great deal outlining the various advantages and disadvantages pragmatically.  Besides looking at the concepts and the XSLdocument standards, the chapter goes beyond simple XSL documents and explains how to build dynamic PHP scripts, interops with legacy applications, discusses the construction of multi-tiered applications, uses XSLT as a functional language, and even explains some recursive techniques to solve complicated document generation problems.  Many times programmers are confused on which technology to use; this chapter compares SAX, DOM and XSLT and helps the reader decide which technology is best for your project and organization's goals.  Lastly, XSLT is often overlooked when it can offer a very elegant and platform independent solution!  The chapter thoroughly explains the various applications XSLT is used and even gives the reader with some vision and direction as I described how various projects used XSLT skillfully.<br />I hope these review helps inform you about the book's content.  I hope you enjoy the book as we all did writing it.  Happy reader and thanks for listening.	2002-07-18
US	48321260	R1WRAYHZBBPHEI	0735712271	632225103	XML and PHP	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Okay, but look to Wrox's PHP Book	This book contains all the fundamental information you'd expect from a book detailing PHP and XML, however this book fails to cover anything extremely indepth.  If you are looking for a more in-depth and technical resource as well as coverage of the latest standards, turn to the Professional PHP4 XML book published by Wrox.  That one is much better even though it's a little more money.	2002-07-15
US	48321260	R3IKSEAZNZUZU4	0782140211	668820683	XML Processing with Perl, Python, and PHP	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Okay book, but are you using all these languages?	This book is okay, but is your development team really using all these languages?  If you need to learn XML with a certain technology, get Professional PHP4 XML or Manning's new Java and XML book and many others.  Not only do these books cover the same material as this one, they cover some really advanced topics such as architecture and design issues as well as giving you heads up on the latest versions such as php 4.3.0.  This book also doesn't nearly tell you about all the potential problems that you can have with working with PHP where Professional PHP4 XML will answer just about every question you ever had plus everything else you didn't think of.	2002-06-20
US	48321260	R30MV6S4CFA51I	0471248754	626978305	Building Application Frameworks: Object-Oriented Foundations of Framework Design	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Good starting point but...	For one that works on frameworks and tools almost every day, I'm one that understands the production of frameworks and the OO methodology very well - however I got this book on a recommendation for its rich content and ideas, but I was left dissappointed.<br />First of all, the book is more of an academic book.  I have no problem with this as the Design Patterns book produced by the GoF was written in the same manner, but the language and tone could have more informal to make it a more enjoyable read for the working architect rather than the university student.<br />That not really being the real issue, there are many chapters in this book that are almost useless to read.  I understand this book shouldn't be read from cover-to-cover (seeing as the chapters have hardly any real order to them - another bad point), but reading about a smalltalk framework for something so trivial and talking about it's significance for a hundred pages or so doesn't make me learn anything - simular to the Mythical Man Month.  I'm sure these kinds of chapters or books even are an important, integral part of computer science and should be captured, but this isn't the book I'm afraid.<br />The chapters on example frameworks, although helpful, didn't tell the reader a lot of inforamtion.  For instance, the Hypermedia framework was written as it was being told with an overview.  Although the patterns and some driving design decisions were made, the actual purpose of the framework was unclear until the end of the chapter that I put in the missing pieces myself.   The author wrote it like a review or an abstract to a larger case study - which doesn't help those that truly want to understand what's going on.<br />The chapters on formalizing and understanding frameworks, although I appreiciate the academic effort to describing frameworks, were useless reads as well.  As an architect that has built many frameworks and continues to do so, their so-called \\"simplified model\\" couldn't even potentiallydescribe half the frameworks i've built.  For a book that is supposed to be the \\"definitive guide/reference\\" on frameworks, it most surely doesn't meet to the level of frameworks being produced in the enterprise today.  Perhaps volumes 2 and 3 can clear this up.<br />Given all this, however, the book has some good chapters, albeit reviews and abstracts of white papers and other books.  If you really want to start building frameworks, maybe this would be a good start, but I'd recommend Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Software, Refactoring, EJB Design Patterns and many other books about advanced OO and designing software that focus on the \\"smaller\\" elements of producing frameworks instead.  If you truely understand these works, learning how to build frameworks is almost trivial and you won't really need to read this book.   Maybe I'm just smart too, I dunno - you decide.<br />Just my thoughts - hope that helps someone's buying decision.	2002-05-30
US	48321260	R39XGCDPTGGYW5	0596002831	783459499	Java in a Nutshell, Fourth Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent First catalog of all the core Java classes + XML	While this book is 3 stars, having a refernece of many of the core classes is very handy, especially for those that the understand OO paradigm and are quick learners like me who don't need to walked through the classes with tons of examples - Just show me what's available and let me learn on my own.  That's essentially what this books allows you to do, as this book is not really meant to teach but to provide an overview of the Java Platform.  Being updated for 1.4, you can get up to speed on the XML classes and the new non-blocking IO library.  This book is essential for new to say 2-year venteran programmers that would to have everything in a book and don't know all the classes in the API yet.	2002-05-30
US	48321260	R1CEXOP7DKFMF2	0471208310	503987062	EJB Design Patterns: Advanced Patterns, Processes, and Idioms	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amazing book for EJB specific patterns and design practices	For those that are just getting a handle on EJB technology and would like to avoid the common pitfalls when design EJB enterprise applications, this book is must read.  Knowing the the classes of EJB and how to extend and deploy them is not enough - knowing how they all work in a multi-tiered architecture that advocates maintainability as well as performance in a balanced way is the true challange.  This book will provide you will all the knowledge you need when design your J2EE applications.<br />For those that already have a handle on J2EE and have used it for some time, this book offers an excellent catalog of design patterns and perhaps you'll learn a few new ones too.  The Strategies on the development process when working with EJB are also great for newcomers that would like to know the best practices to avoid making too mistakes with this technology.<br />Great book and concrats to the author making it compact, easy to read and full of wonderful information from beginning to end.  Excellent!	2002-05-30
US	48321260	R1EL8KGEYN77J4	0201835959	545261268	The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering, Anniversary Edition (2nd Edition)	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Good insight, but poor for today's project manager	Although the book is an interesting read and offers some insight to the history of project management, the concepts and ideas written in the book are so old that I find it hard to believe the book will be of any interest to today's project manager.<br />I don't expect people to improve their project management methods from reading this book, but if that is what you want to achieve, this book won't do much for you. <br />For me, I found it hard to finish it as I was bored while reading it.  Many of the writings were obvious today and I felt that I didn't gain anything.	2002-01-25
US	48321260	R2PDDJY0BRRNDV	1861006918	248458406	Professional PHP4 Programming	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Great PHP book that dabbles in all areas of PHP	For those that want to learn how to do all aspects of web development using PHP, this book for you.  As co-author and technical reviewer or 3/4 of the book, I can say from experience that this book does indead cover everything you'll need to know when making dynamic websites.<br />This book is great for beginners as well as professionals since the introduction material can offer a good beginning to learning PHP and some of the later chapters on Internationalization, databases, xml, optimization, etc. will be suitable for experts.<br />I wish the book contained more object oriented examples and that some chapters contained more depth, but for a book of 960 pages, it certainly covers a lot of material.<br />If you are starting to learn PHP and want to expand your skills or are an expert and want some more indepth material, add this book to your collection!	2002-01-25
US	48321260	RK5EBSPSI51SX	0066620023	184490417	Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Bible for High-tech Entrepreneurs	This book is absolutely amazing. I'm really knocking myself on the head for not purchasing it a long time ago, but I'm glad I did now. Currently, I'm Chairman and CEO for a new high-tech startup and after reading this book, I'm going to redesign our approach to marketing with my other officers. Even though we have not hit the chasm period, we will soon and I feel we are better prepared.<br />The book is actually very simple. It just defines what the chasm period is, who is involved, how to define what markets to attack, how to direct your marketing/advertising, how to assemble alliances and partners and even how to prepare your staff during this period.<br />The author does an excellent job being honest and sincere, explaining the good with the bad. This is truly great as he won't leave your company in the dust when you see big problems after when crossing and after you cross the chasm period. For instance, I would not have thought my pioneer sales staff would be not as effective and slightly frustrated after we haved breached into the mainstream market. After Geoffrey's discussion on compensation and staffing after crossing the chasm, I was convinced that I had not even thought about how each employee would be affected. Some solutions are brutal to fix the problem - but honest.<br />The book clearly identifies crossing the chasm as a war - and that it is indeed. Marketing, especially in the high-tech field, is warfare. This book will give you the strategies and tactics to launch this type of war campaign. Read it and read it again and then give it to your senior officers to read.<br />One complaint about the book, is that this clearly focuses on companies building software, hardware, electronics, and etc. that will appeal to multiple markets. If you are building software that you can only clearly see one industry adopting, you basically have already segmented your market. You may choose to segment your target market even further, perhaps by location to go with thebook (that's what we did). This book does little in talking about that type of innovation, but if you do some thinking and apply the core principles of the book, you should be able to develop a strategy that works really well.<br />One other point, by no means a flaw, is that it does little explaining what goes on before the chasm period (hints here and there). If you are even unsure has to how to start a new high-tech business, I suggest that you should read this book but look elsewhere for other resources and perhaps find someone with that knowledge that can help.<br />All in all, this is one amazing book and I highly recommend it to any high-tech entrepreneur. Now I'm going to read Geoffrey's other book, Inside the Tornado.	2001-09-17
US	48321260	R2KX8QJP4X1R42	0735711372	221051079	The Zope Book	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Great Introduction to this incredible technology	Zope (and Python) have gained wide spread audiences over the last couple of years and this book is a great companion to anyone that wants to get in on the hype or wants a book to review all areas of the Zope technologies. If you are unsure if you or your company should switch to a Python/Zope solution when developing websites, you should give this book a read and you will feel more confortable to give it a try.<br />The book is very easy to understand and it's not really a technical reference.  It simply dabbles in many different areas in the Zope technology and covers them all very well. The author is very brief and you'll be able to see what Zope is all about after a few days of reading.<br />Zope is definately a new, innovative way of developing websites, much along the lines of java enterprise and other collaborative web application servers. If you program in PHP or Perl and want more colloboration, power, sleaker and well structured designs and faster development time, you should look into Zope and purchase this book.<br />This is the best Zope book out there today! Great job to the authors, Amos Latteier and Michel Pelletier, and it's technical reviewing staff who have done a great job making this book flow nicely and without error.	2001-09-08
US	48321260	RCV5KE5RBISCY	0446520942	234309172	Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very insightful and truthful, but poorly structured IMO	I really enjoy this book.  It does a very good job communicating the ideas of establishing strong business relationships, brands, pricing strategies, strong first impressions and maintaining a strong visual presence (to help the invisible become visible).  Many of the ideas relate extremely well to almost any service industry and for me, being in the high-technology industry, I was not disappointed.<br />The only argument I would have is that it's basically tidbits of very insightful information, but I was sort of lost as to the organization of the book.  Some of the different sections in the book didn't follow well to the next.  Some chapters I felt had 2 or 3 completely different thoughts and those distinctions weren't visually or structurally apparent enough.  In fact - it's kinda hard for me find out some of that insightful information that I read previously because of this lack of organization.<br />For this reason, i gave it a 4 rather than a 5.  Overall, it's a good book and you can read it on a train or on a weekend.  It has made me rethink my marketing strategies and I'm sure you'll rethink yours too after reading this book.	2001-09-03
US	48321260	R3HK0TN4A22PF5	0201485672	532976631	Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Fantastic resource for developing quality code	I would have to give 2 thumbs up to Martin Fowler's book on Refactoring. He has addressed so many common refactorings in such a simple and elegant way that many will benefit from his work (as well as the others that helped write this book).<br />Martin's writing style is very relaxed and sincere. He's entertaining and doesn't complicate things as you can easily find what you need. You can tell he simply wants to make programming teams' lives easier and he has accomplished tenfold. He's not going to tell you that your an innately bad programmer or that he is a better one - he truely captivates that quality code is important and refactoring is that one big step that each organization and programmer must take to improve the quality of code.<br />Some of the patterns that he identifies are very common - but for completeness' sake, he includes them. Others are very insightful such as Introducing Null objects, which I've used 5 times in a single application now since I've read this book.<br />This is also an excellent book to accompany Design Patterns, as many of these refactorings will help you achieve design patterns in your code - it's like working them in your code in a different, systematic way.<br />All in all, this is a fantastic contribution to improving code and developing quality programmers in the software development industry.  I would recommend this to any software professional and especially university students (where quality code is not touched on at all).  It's the will of the programmer to improve their code and this is one of those books to read if you want to do that.  If you want to just be an average programmer, a following in your organization and not take responsibility - then don't read this book.  If you want to truely be effective in your job or entrapreneural projects, add this book to your bookshelf and read it, use it and live it.	2001-09-03
US	48321260	R3G8NH94SWHYFV	0785274316	890160557	The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership: Follow Them and People Will Follow You	Books	3	64	73	N	N	Simply 21 Truthful Characteristics and Lots of Stories	This book is a descent book on leadership, but if you are actually looking to take your first steps forward to being a great leader, this book isn't a guide to help you get there, but to tell you that you are, or aren't.<br />This book is more helpful in identifying and aiding people in the understanding of leadership qualities or characteristics.  I wouldn't really call them 'laws', but they are characteristics that a leader must have in order to be successful to lead their organization, whatever that is.<br />I found the book to tell too many stories, especially where many of them were identical in their themes, but with different scenarios.  I felt they concentrated too much on sports and his experiences with the church.  Countless number of times he would say, 'When I was a pastor at Skyline, my church in San Diego...', and then generally lead on to some story that I felt lacked depth - although the stories did demonstrate the law in the chapter.<br />I think there should have been more focus on business, with only very few examples of Apple, McDonalds, etc.  With over 15 examples related to sports and his church, I didn't relate very well being an entrapreneur in the high-tech field.<br />Needless to say, all these 'laws', (or rather leadership qualities) are indeed true and this book is a good resource for assessing yourself to see if you are the leader you thought you were.  Obviously the stories are just assertion material, so the laws will uphold for anyone who wishes to start learning leadership.<br />As for developing skills?  It's really up to you.  this book will help you identify where you are weak so that you can improve, but as to what path to take for improvement, you are left alone in the dark.  I would say this book is 3 1/2 stars.	2001-09-03
US	48321260	R37PR5XGUFNH0H	0201709376	236764269	Extreme Programming in Practice	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Not introductory XP book and not a great book at that	I've read 100 pages into the book so far, and I'd have to say it is not that amazing.  The project they talk about is a registration system, typical to most websites (a way to register, login, get a forgetten password, etc.)<br />I was very surprised to see that the project was estimated at 25 days.  Even some functions like creating 1 table was estimated to take 4 hours.  It seemed the developers were not very capable individuals or simply expected a not so capable crowd to be reading the book.<br />I also did not agree with the books statements to not consider architectural details - in fact none were considered at all, even when it came down to iteration planning.  I know this is an element of XP, but some of their reasons for not doing a model were very good signs that they didn't understand the problem enough.  The only valid reason I found was the customer may not request the features required by the more robust architecture - but they may even come back in a year's time and you'll probably be thanking yourself you did make it scalable.<br />Even after reviewing the code, I thought some elementary coders were at work.  There was a part in the book where they either had to convert some pages from ASP to JSP if they wanted the banner to be the same, but they could have simply encapsulated the banner into a file and included it in both the ASP and JSP versions saving their estimated implementation time of 5 days.<br />The book has it's morals, but the project is by far too small to be a true testiment to the success of XP - this kind of thing can be done by one competent person sitting at their machine in a basement for a 2 days, and I do believe it would have been done much better.  There is no pattern work, no architecture and clearly reading their programming flaws and decision making failures, no wonder they estimated a completion date of 25 days.<br />I gather that XP is still good for projects 40x the complexity of this registration system, but the book does a bad job explaining that.  It seems XP is good for programmers that need support to compensate for their lack of ability to be a good programmer - I know that's not true though, but this book isn't doing a good job of convincing me otherwise.<br />I haven't read any of the other XP books - but stay away from this one unless you want to read bad design and coding examples, non-realistic programming errors and poorly made decisions.  It's not XP that would have helped this team, a new set of programmers and architects would have done better.<br />If you simply want to learn about XP, stay away from this book.	2001-07-22
US	48321260	R3VTWNQLNBWNTB	0201709376	236764269	Extreme Programming in Practice	Books	2	40	53	N	N	Don't buy it (my newer review)	I've read 100 pages into the book so far, and I would have to say it is not that amazing. The book basically runs through a project that they did using XP and they share their stories and experiences. The project they talk about is very typical to most websites (a way to register, login, get a forgotten password, etc.) <br />I was very surprised to see that the project was estimated at 25 days. Even some functions like creating one table was estimated to take 4 hours. It seemed that the developers were not very capable individuals, or perhaps they simply expected an incompetent crowd to be reading the book. There is actual proof of my claim too since even taking their 4 hours to make the table, they had still forgetton to create the 'password' attribute within the table. They realized this when they tested their code. Leaving out those architectural details are we? <br />I also did not agree with the book's statements in not considering architectural details - in fact none were considered at all, even when it came down to iteration planning. I know this is an element of the XP methodology, but some of their reasons for not doing a model indicated that they didn't understand the problem enough. The only valid reason I found for not planning for future change was that the customer may not request the features required by the more robust architecture. That is valid, but let's think about repeat business. Let's assume they come back in a year's time to make those changes and you'll probably be thanking yourself you did make it scalable. It's less time for you and your staff and less you have to charge your client. Everyone is much happier. <br />Another instance of terrible design is on page 103. They used an Adapter pattern (found in the GoF book) to adapt a method from their database class to another class with the identical name for the method. Well, as far as I know, that is NOT why you use the Adapter pattern. Adapter is used when you have an API that doesn't follow an interface used throughout the application. Programmer's use the Adapter to make an interface conform to a new one. Well, in using the Adapter in the book's example, they are merely delegating a task, not adapting an unfamiliar interface. Even worse - What was the method called? - findUserByEmail() found inside the Database connection object (connecting and closing the DBMS). Why is it there? No architecture thinking done at all! It should have been placed in a UserFactory or User Data Access Object class in the first place (the book refers to it as its User class). They would have avoided this problem (and misuse of a pattern) altogether. <br />One more thing about architecture. There was a case where they had made 2 servlets, both containing almost identical code. With XP's refactoring, they had created a base class and inherited appropriately. After restructuring their test cases and refactoring several times, they finally got it right. Wouldn't a solid design have been better? The book states that up-front design is bad. Well, I know the point of XP is to not follow a hardcore design document for the entire project because you realize that customer requirements are voltatile. But, shouldn't we at least come up with a smaller design document for each iteration? I mean, it's not practical for a customer to interrupt an interation - in fact it's a rule the customer cannot do according to this book. I still say, if you are not going to plan your system, at least plan the architecture for a 'subset' of the system - i.e. in each iteration plan. <br />Even after reviewing the code, I thought some elementary coders were at work. There was a part in the book where they either had to convert some pages from ASP to JSP if they wanted the banner to be the same, but they could have simply encapsulated the banner into a file and included it in both the ASP and JSP versions, saving their estimated implementation time of 5 days. <br />The book has it's morals, but the project is by far too small to be a true testiment to the success of XP. This kind of project could have easily been done by one competent person sitting at their machine for 2 days, and I do believe it would have been done much better architecturally as well. There is no design pattern work, no architecture and clearly reading their programming flaws and decision making failures, no wonder they estimated a completion date of 25 days. <br />I gather that XP is still good for projects with much greater complexity than this registration system, but the book does a bad job explaining that. It seems XP is good for programmers that need other support to compensate for their lack of ability to be a good programmer - I know that is not true when it comes to pair programming, but this book isn't doing a good job of convincing me otherwise. <br />I haven't read any of the other XP books - but stay away from this one unless you want to read bad software designs and coding examples, non-realistic programming errors, and poorly made decisions. It's not XP that would have helped this team, a new set of programmers and architects would have done better. <br />If you simply want to learn about XP, stay away from this book. <br />If you want to learn about failures on projects and actually learn something, read the Mythical Man Month. <br />If you want to spend [price], throw it into lottery tickets, you'll learn about 'wasting money' and how to better spend it. <br />If you need to learn XP.... try another XP book in the series.	2001-07-22
US	48321260	RADPO1VHQC3RM	0201725908	976098700	Practical Information Architecture: A Hands-On Approach to Structuring Successful Websites	Books	3	36	46	N	N	Was not indepth enough	The Book has many strong points.  It's easy to read, he's quick and to the point, it's layed out nicely and logically and you can tell he has background in information architecture as well as more technical areas in computer design (although he doesn't show them in the book).  This is the first book that I've read on Information Architecture but it didn't seemed to be very indepth but was rather more dumbed down and collected a bunch of obvious facts and put them in one book.  Much of the information I already knew and I'm a systems and multimedia developer for positive-edge.com, a web consultant and design company.  I was hoping for a more throughal study in information architecture but rather I got the basic grounds as it relates to a project life cycle.  It was a good book to get started and I suppose I'd recommend it to someone who's new to structuring web sites with a group of individuals.	2000-11-20
