US	48339454	R3UL110BEO060E	037542170X	237629473	Archives of the Universe: A Treasury of Astronomy's Historic Works of Discovery	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The History of Astronomical Discovery	Archives of the Universe is a phenomenal book which tells the history of astronomical discovery. The book starts at the very dawn of astronomy and explains how the very first calendars were invented. It runs through medieval times explaining the discoveries of Galileo, Copernicus and many others, and concludes with the latest discoveries in cosmology, including the accelerating expansion of the universe and the discovery of extra-solar planets. This book covers it all, and more importantly, it covers discoveries in chronological order in many cases clearly showing how one discovery leads to the next. <br /> <br />One of things which I found most appealing about this book is the fact that it is broken into relatively short chapters. Each chapter begins with a short explanation by the author, followed by an excerpt from the original research paper in which the discovery was first announced. How great is it to read about Galileo's discoveries in Galileo's own (translated) words? <br /> <br />A word of caution: this is a 700 page book, and some of the research paper excerpts  included in it are very technical (especially some of the most modern ones). These are very hard, if not impossible, to understand. In many of the chapters I wished that the author's explanations were longer and more detailed, while the research paper excerpts were shorter.  <br /> <br />Bottom line, if you are an amateur astronomer, like me, you will LOVE this book. However this book is heavier than most popular science books and I would probably not recommend it for the casual reader of popular science.	2005-09-07
US	48339454	RYEERM87IUM1G	0812579429	42121260	Saturn: A Novel of the Ringed Planet- And the Humans Who Explore It (The Grand Tour)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Readable but not Great	Saturn tells the story of a scientific expedition bound for the planet Saturn for the purpose of scientific exploration and colonization. Along the journey, various political factions emerge among the crew, and a group of outlaws attempts to democratically take over the colony and to establish a dictatorship. <br /> <br />Saturn is the first novel by Ben Bova that I have read. It is readable, but it is certainly not great. For one thing, the characters are generic, boring and underdeveloped. For another, some elements of the plot are just not credible. For example, Bova would have us believe that the colonists get so worked up about naming various buildings in their habitat that they hold colony-wide democratic elections to resolve this \\"grave\\" issue.  <br /> <br />Nonetheless, the book is surprisingly readable. Saturn is written in flowing style and the plot is constantly moving forward. I never found myself bored, but was never really engaged either.  <br /> <br />I read a lot of sci-fi and this book is not one of the better pieces in the genre. Bottom line, I don't recommend this book, but if you happen to get it and have nothing better to do, it's an ok way to pass a few hours.	2005-08-24
US	48339454	R2PKQMMSRSZ54T	0060013168	224677970	Monstrous Regiment (Discworld)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	I hate to say it, but this one is pretty weak for a Disc World novel	Let me start by saying that I am a big Disc World fan. I have read every single book in the series.     My problem with Monstrous Regiment is that it is simply not funny. Yes, I smiled here and there, but I never laughed. The characters are mostly new ones and none of them are really good. The story is not that great either.    Bottom line, if you are new to Disc World you should definitely choose a different book. Try \\"Guards, Guards\\", \\"Small Gods\\" or my personal favorite \\"The Light Fantastic\\". If you are a regular Disc World reader, maybe you should (heresy) consider skipping this one altogether....	2005-04-28
US	48339454	R3OKNHSK8BQ7T5	0312423667	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Typical Auster	Oracle Night is the story of a New York writer recovering from a life threatening illness and trying to get his life back in order. As is typical of Auster's work, the story takes a number of bizarre turns that send the story in new and unexpected directions. <br /> <br />I am a long time Auster reader and fan, and while I enjoyed the book, Oracle Night is neither Auster's best work not his worst. The story itself is well crafted, the characters are masterfully woven and the story is excellent. Like it or not (and I happen to like it), Oracle Night is typical Auster material.  <br /> <br />Having said this, the book does have some problems, the most annoying of which are the footnotes. I found Auster's use of footnotes to be both irritating and unnecessary. They interrupt the flow of the story and in serve no useful purpose that I can see.  <br /> <br />Bottom line, this is a good book for Auster fans. If you have never read Auster before, I would start instead with Moon Palace, Leviathan, The Book of Illusions or the Music of Chance.	2005-02-05
US	48339454	R126IESX0LNWP7	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Good Book	Libra deals with the Kennedy assassination from Lee Harvey Oswald's perspective. Oswald is presented as one of a number of trigger men, but as only a small player in a much larger conspiracy involving former CIA operatives. At first it appears that the conspiracy's goals are to use a failed attempt on the president's life as a ruse for re-invading Cuba, however somewhere along the line that plan is forgotten and the president becomes the real target of the operation. <br /> <br />Oswald is presented as a confused and misguided individual, with big ambitions but little direction and with no clear goals. The story takes the reader through Oswald's service in the military, a defection to Russia, a failed marriage and a number of other misadventures. Libra presents Oswald as a not entirely willing participant in the plot to assassinate Kennedy. This fictional Oswald is a pathetic, but disturbingly sympathetic character.  <br /> <br />The book is a good one. One of its themes which I greatly appreciated is the banality of evil - while conspiring to assassinate the president, the plotters also deal with their day to day problems, such as taking care of their families, worrying about their careers etc. From this perspective the book is fascinating and unique. However, I never found myself fully gripped by the plot nor did I feel any suspense. Libra is a good book, it may even be great from a literary perspective, however I read novels for entertainment and not for literary genius. From this perspective I feel that the book came a bit short.	2005-01-17
US	48339454	R2NOVTWYAO3S2V	0805066241	108572418	Mercator: The Man Who Mapped the Planet	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Great Geographer, Mediocre Book	There is no doubt that Mercator was a great geographer. Among his achievements were: the projection bearing his name, the first modern Atlas, and even the naming of North America. He played an important role in the amazing successes and adventures of the Age of Discovery. He truly was an amazing man. <br /> <br />Having said this, I found Crane's book to be lacking. I thought that the book was well researched and well grounded, but the delivery was poor. When buying a popular history book, in addition to the facts I expect a gripping story, masterfully told. However, Crane's writing style is dry and while the book is filled with names, dates, facts and figures the story telling is simply not there. Crane often gets bogged down in minute details that are distracting, dry and are simply not important to the story he is trying to tell. <br /> <br />In short, this may be a good history book, but it is not a book that I would recommend for the typical reader of POPULAR history.	2004-08-29
US	48339454	R7EQ6MANM06VQ	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	3	33	52	N	N	Some Important Allegations, a Lot of Flaming Rhetoric	Dean makes some very important and disturbing allegations. Essentially he brings together in one volume news stories we have all been reading about for the past 3 years or so. Bush has refused to deal with or has put a spin on many nagging questions about his administration, its actions and its policies. His environmental record, the Iraq intelligence fiasco and his administration's refusal to release such important information as the records of the Vice President's Energy Task Force are all disturbing. In this sense I accept many of Dean's main points.<br />Yet, I found Dean's venomous and hostile tone to be offensive. He is not content with presenting the facts as he sees them, he insists on passing judgment as well. He does not leave any doubt as to which side he is on, and as such I found myself questioning the impartiality and fairness of the information contained in this book. <br />Dean could have written a much better book had he restrained his urge for sensationalism.	2004-06-11
US	48339454	R2L1QIESWOCNU	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	An Incredible Journey and an Excellent Book!	I rarely give books a 5 star rating, but this one certainly deserves it. The book gives full account of Magellan's circumnavigation of the globe, in all its horrifying and glorious details. While it is clear that the writer is a staunch Magellan admirer, he does not hesitate to criticize Magellan's style of leadership, the Captain's over-inflated ego or the needless risks he took (one of which ultimately resulted in his death).<br />Reading this book, I found myself transported into 16th century Europe, an era full of intrigue, magic and of casual disregard for human life. The book was absolutely captivating and I was not able to put it down. From my perspective, the most interesting thing about the story is that while today Magellan is recognized as a hero and as one of the most important explorers of all time, in his day Magellan received no recognition and was the target of suspicion and hatred. <br />For the most part, Bergreen's writing style is fluid and easy to read, however at times it is a bit too flowery for my taste. The book also suffers from a shortage of illustrations and maps which could have been instructive. For example, an illustration of Magellan's ships, the weapons and armor of the era and current pictures of some of the main locations involved, would all have been nice. Nevertheless, I highly recommend this book for any fan of popular history books.	2004-06-11
US	48339454	R3905BMGD42Z2W	0387955011	798581112	If the Universe Is Teeming with Aliens ... WHERE IS EVERYBODY?: Fifty Solutions to the Fermi Paradox and the Problem of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Very Readable, Slightly Repetitive	&quot;Where Is Everybody&quot; is a very readable and enjoyable book that offers 50 possible answers to the question &quot;are we alone in the universe?&quot;. The answers offered range from incredibly absurd to extremely thought-provoking. The book does not offer any unique insights or ideas which have not been suggested before. Its value lies in the collection of all of these ideas in a single volume. I found the book enjoyable and easy to read (most of the time).<br />I do have two complaints, however: (1) the book is somewhat repetitive, and I frequently got the sense that the same solution was offered multiple times for the sole purpose of reaching a total of 50 solutions; (2) portions of the book are poorly structured and needlessly use scientific concepts which are not adequately explained in the book. This is most notable in the sections of the book that discuss the biochemistry of life on earth.<br />Bottom line, I really enjoyed &quot;Where Is Everybody?&quot; and I warmly recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.	2004-05-22
US	48339454	R33RJU2G52PKIU	051788433X	119875571	Extraordinary Popular Delusions & the Madness of Crowds	Books	2	38	41	N	N	Not for the Average Reader	I read a lot of history books and I am a big fan of books dealing with the history of science and economics. Yet, I could not bring myself to finish this gargantuan book. Before you buy this book be aware that it was written in 1841, and in my opinion it did not age very well. If you are a casual reader of history books, this book is probably not for you.<br />Of the book's 740 pages, the first 100 or so deal with economic bubbles - these initial chapters are relatively engaging and easy to read. In comparison, the following 150 page are simply a LIST of famous alchemists, with a few brief anecdotes about each one. The other subjects covered later on, prophecies, fortunes telling etc. suffer from the same problem. The book contains no analysis, it merely offers a collection of anecdotes, some amusing some not.<br />The book is written in archaic language, with Latin and French phrases interspersed throughout it. Occasionally, entire Latin paragraphs are used with no English translation. I read a lot, and this is the first book in many years that I was not able to finish.<br />There is one positive thing I can say about this book: it is a fascinating example of 19th century writing. The approach to the subject matter, the narrative tone and the language used were very instructive and interesting for me. Nevertheless, I was only able to make it to page 323 before giving up. For the casual reader I would suggest more modern books on the topics covered. For example: Tulipomania by Mike Dash is a great book about the Tulip trade Bubble of 1636.	2004-04-26
US	48339454	R3R9RHPW975HQX	0452284392	117060972	Linked: How Everything Is Connected to Everything Else and What It Means for Business, Science, and Everyday Life	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Popular Science at its Best	Written by a leading researcher in the field, Linked offers ordinary people a glimpse into the fascinating and complex world of networks. The book covers everything from social networks, to economic networks, to chemical networks, to the World Wide Web, and exposes some of the underlying principles responsible for network structure.<br />Linked explains the importance and prevalence hubs in networks, it highlights the strengths and vulnerabilities of different types of networks and offers insights into such interesting phenomena as the small world effect (best illustrated by the six degrees to Kevin Bacon game).<br />The book does have its weak spots, and it seems to slow down a bit after about 150 pages. However, the book is divided into very short chapters and is filled with many interesting anecdotes - all this means that even the occasional weak chapter moves along nicely.<br />All in all, a great and easy to read book for fans of popular science, but be aware that the underlying topic is complex and the occasional equation does find its way into the book. I skipped over most of these equations and found that my understanding of the concepts and my enjoyment of the book were not diminished. I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-29
US	48339454	RU6R9XJI6DXJ3	0060977086	828883781	Prisoner's Dilemma	Books	2	2	9	N	N	Good Writer, Story Tough to Follow	I recently finished reading Powers' first novel, \\"Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance\\", and liked it enough that I decided to try some of his other work.     Prisoners' Dilemma is a very complex novel. Unlike some of the other reviewers, I felt that the characters were the book's main strength - they are rich, conflicted and masterfully crafted. However, especially toward the end, I got totally lost. I could not follow the story.     The first 100 pages or so were engaging and interesting, but the novel kept getting stranger, until at the end I was no longer sure what was going on. It could be that I am not as sophisticated a reader as I should be, but if you are like me, be aware that this book is a tough one to follow.     Powers can craft a masterful sentence, and his prose is really great. My problem was that all this great prose never turns into a great story, for me at least.	2004-02-25
US	48339454	RX7PSVQV2D4YY	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A Hard to Read Classic	Catch-22 tells the tortuous story of Yossarian, a WW2 bombardier, who starts to lose (or regain) his sanity after a member of his crew is killed during a bombing mission.  As Yossarian loses more of his friends to enemy fire, bizarre accidents and strange twists of fate, the storyline becomes ever more convoluted and the characters ever more bizarre.<br />At its heart, this book is about how soldiers handle war. How they justify their actions and how they live with the constant threat of death or injury. Heller illustrates the confusion and senselessness of war by using bizarre events and crooked logic. The book is filled with black humor and quickly moves from one outlandish event to the next.<br />In my opinion, this book has two major weaknesses. The first, is one of the hallmarks of this book: Heller builds his sentences to suggest an idea, only to immediately contradict himself. I found this to be very amusing for the first 100 pages or so, but this style simply became tedious afterwards. The second problem is the book's non-chronological plot. Heller keeps skipping back and forth in time and this makes the book hard to read and the plot difficult to follow.<br />I found the book's real strength to be in its amazing and phenomenally well developed characters. Yossarian, Doc. Daneeka, Orr, Major Major and many more, are all extraordinarily alive and yet fundamentally flawed. <br />Did I enjoy this book? Yes. All in all, this is a book worth reading, but don't expect an easy read.	2004-01-30
US	48339454	R2CG9AGH9CA5TS	0060975091	358731561	Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Impressive First Novel. Not for Casual Readers.	This book consists of three intertwined sagas, all revolving around a picture of three farmers taken in 1914. The main idea behind this book, as I see it, is the interconnectedness of observer and observed. The lives of people who see this picture are irrevocably changed, but the prospect of having their picture seen by generations of future viewers, changes the lives of the three farmers as well. This is a recurring motif in the book.<br />After reading this book, I discovered two amazing facts. The first is that this is Richard Powers' first novel and as such the virtuosity and craftsmanship that Powers' exhibits in this book are truly incredible. The second incredible fact is that the picture around which the novel revolves is a real one. Had I known these facts before reading the book, I would have enjoyed it even more.<br />On the down side, this book is not an easy read. The story itself never really gripped me, and there are a lot of dead spots. In addition, while the prose is beautiful it demands concentration and close attention to every word and sentence. Bottom line, I will definitely read Powers' other works, but I cannot recommend this one to the casual reader.	2003-10-30
US	48339454	R28YWAE176DXHO	0743216768	499277831	The Measure of All Things: The Seven-Year Odyssey and Hidden Error That Transformed the World	Books	4	6	7	N	N	History, Science and Human Nature	The Measure of All Things tells the incredible story of the Metric System's origin. During the early days of the French revolution, two astronomers are sent on a mission to precisely measure a part of the meridian arc passing through France and Spain. The plan is to use these measurements to calculate the length of the Meter, which was then defined as one ten millionth of the distance between the North Pole and the Equator. The book is exceptionally well researched and written, and Adler is not satisfied with simply relating dry historical facts to his readers. This book truly makes 18th century Europe come to life. <br />What I found fascinating about this book was not so much the story of the creation of a new measurement system, but the fact that this ambitious mission took place in an age of extreme political and societal turmoil. While this mission was in progress, governments in France changed several times, wars and battles were won and lost, and hyper inflation devastated the French economy. <br />My biggest complaint about this book, and it is a major one, is that I often felt that Adler was taking creative freedom with history - conjuring the thoughts and feelings of historical figures without basing his conjectures on any reliable source. I feel that this is not appropriate in a book about the history of science. <br />Bottom line: this is a very good book that I warmly recommend to anyone interested in history in general and in the history of science in particular. For those who enjoy the subject, I would also like to recommend \\"Measuring Eternity: The Search for the Beginning of Time\\" by Martin Gorst.	2003-09-22
US	48339454	R18L52EAVQVKPS	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Just a Book	It is probably my fault for expecting too much of a first novel. After reading Kavalier and Clay, I fell in love with Chabon's superb style and eloquence, and decided to read The Mysteries of Pittsburgh. I was disappointed.<br />The story is a simple one. Art Bechstein a recent college graduate and the son of a Jewish Gangster, spends a summer working in a bookstore and struggling with issues of sexual identity. The characters are interesting, well crafted and definitely show a glimmer of Chabon's future skill, but the story is not handled as well. In fact, at points the story is downright boring and I only got truly interested in the plot in the last 100 pages or so.<br />In addition, I disliked Chabon's use of imagery in the book. I realize that Chabon is trying to craft a picturesque and naive image of the world which is aligned with the book's coming-of-age theme and with Bechstein's nostalgic look at his past, but in my opinion the imagery is over done and at times is ridiculously exaggerated.<br />Bottom line: this is a simple book, with a simple storyline written by someone who would later become a master story teller. If anything, after reading The Mysteries of Pittsburgh I am now even more appreciative of the phenomenal craftsmanship Chabon displays in his later works. The Mysteries of Pittsburgh is a decent read, but no more than that.	2003-09-08
US	48339454	RI9IXSVY2YDKM	0140097058	5127984	In the Country of Last Things	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Mixed Feelings	In The Country Of Last Things tells the story of a disintegrating, post apocalyptic unnamed city, as seen through the eyes of the protagonist, Anna Blume. Anna comes to the City in search of her brother, but soon realizes the hopelessness of her quest. Leaving the City appears to be impossible, and Anna finds herself in a day-to-day struggle for survival.<br />Generally speaking, this is a haunting and depressing novel, made even more so by the calm and unemotional style of narration Auster uses in describing the most horrifying situations.<br />The book reminds me of Orwell's 1984. But whereas the bleak future (or past) described by Orwell is a manmade oppressive government which takes over the lives of its citizens, the City's condition is one of irreversible and inescapable chaos. Whatever government exists in the City seems to have no power at all. Thus, while 1984 seems to offer some meager hope for political salvation, the City can only continue to disintegrate and things can only get worse.<br />Throughout the book Anna seems grow, improve and evolve as a human being, although she believes that the opposite is true. The letter she is writing to an unnamed friend or lover is the only successful act of creation in the entire book, and this single act of creation stands in marked contrast to the ubiquitous collapse of everyone and everything else in the book. When considered in this light, the book is about Anna's unintended and unnoticed triumph over the City.<br />I don't quite know how to feel about this book, but I know that it will stay with me for a long time to come. This is why Paul Auster is one of my favorite authors - regardless of whether you like his books, they always leave you with something to think about.	2003-08-10
US	48339454	RKNJBE6Y0LVDV	0471384550	217649835	Getting Started in Consulting	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Must Read for New Consultants	This book offers a complete &quot;how to&quot; guide for starting and growing a consulting business. The book includes advice on setting up the legal structure for your business, marketing your services, writing proposals, setting fees and a wide range of other helpful topics.<br />A good professional development book is one that prompts you to change the way you do business, and this one certainly qualifies for me. I started my consulting practice late last year and after reading the book I made some significant changes in the way I run my business. Most notably, I have adopted much of the advice offered in the book about marketing my services and about writing proposals. My only regret is that I did not know about this book earlier.<br />One word of advice: chapter 2 deals with office and equipment needs, and is somewhat dated. You may want to seek more up-to-date advice before spending your money on some of the office machinery suggested. For example, in choosing your office equipment, an all-in-one printer, fax, copier and scanner, is a great money and space saving alternative.	2003-08-07
US	48339454	R3FL5VRRBH5IQU	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Comprehensive, Interesting and Dry	This book tells the story of mankind's scientific heroes throughout the ages. It focuses mainly on renaissance age discoveries and inventions, and is mostly (but not completely) Eurocentric. <br />Daniel Boorstin has obviously put an amazing amount of time and effort into this comprehensive book. The result is over 700 pages of tightly spaced text that cover everything from geography, to anthropology, to economics, and all the way to physics and chemistry. <br />The book's strengths are also its weaknesses. \\"The Discoverers\\" is as comprehensive as a doctoral dissertation, and often reads like one. Latin words and phrases are liberally sprayed throughout the text, and at times I felt as if Boorstin was intentionally trying to use the most obscure terms just for the fun of it. I also found the text and the narration to be mostly dry. This book is not an easy read.<br />I am an avid fan of scientific history books. I enjoyed the awe inspiring scope of this work, and its ability to illustrate the connections and interactions between scientists and their peers, and to show how discoveries and inventions were often based on earlier works. However, I felt that this format does not allow for the proper exploration of each topic. For example, the amazing discoveries of Faraday and Maxwell, are together told in only 4 pages...<br />The bottom line is that \\"The Discoverers\\" is not easy to read, and while it gives a tantalizing glimpse into a large number of topics, each of these topics is only briefly discussed. However, the sheer scope of the book gives the reader a fascinating bird's eye view of man's struggle to understand his world.	2003-06-27
US	48339454	R329PVXH7N0NPH	0786865954	304851050	How to Become a Rainmaker: The Rules for Getting and Keeping Customers and Clients	Books	3	28	30	N	N	A Decent Basic Refresher Course on Sales	As a lawyer and as an MBA that is currently running his own consulting business, I picked up this book as a way of giving myself a refresher course on sales. I was not disappointed by the book, nor was I amazed by the advice given. The book is easy to read and contains 160 odd pages of large font, widely spaced text. I read this entire book during the course of a brief flight from Los Angeles to San Jose(about an hour).<br />Others have commented that the book contains a lot of simple, obvious and straight forward advice and I tend to agree with this assessment. However, advice does not always need to be complex or particularly insightful in order to be useful. For example, it is always good to remember the value of embracing your client's objections and to develop a client-centric view of the sales process. While this is obvious to most sales people, many of us tend to overlook this principle from time to time. <br />The book has other fundamental weaknesses. For one thing, most of the examples contained in the book are non-specific and often feel like made up clichés. For example, the truly predictable tale of the sales person who was able to land a huge account by being nice to a secretary that later became an executive VP... <br />From my perspective the book also has another serious deficiency - most of the examples given in the book deal with tangible products. The author almost completely ignores the often much more challenging and complex process of selling services.<br />The bottom line is this: this is a decent book if you need a quick refresher or if you are completely unfamiliar with the world of sales. If that is not the case, look for a different book.	2003-06-24
US	48339454	R2TQJHT80BQOJT	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Contemporary Literature at its Best	Leviathan is the story of Benjamin Sachs, a writer and an ideologist, as told by his long time friend and fellow writer, Peter Aaron. As is revealed in the first few pages of the book, the story follows Sachs from the peak of his success, through a long decline and to his eventual untimely death. Like most of Paul Auster's other novels, \\"Leviathan\\" tells an intricate, convoluted and incredibly addictive story. <br />Paul Auster is a master writer. The book is both entertaining and thought provoking. The characters are deep, complex and well crafted. Auster is able to maintain a credible plot even while introducing some tenuous twists into it. Like many of Auster's other novels, \\"Leviathan\\" explores the impact of chance and of seemingly random events on the course of human life. Auster's recurring themes: doubt, desperation and the frailty of the human condition are a central topic of this book.<br />This is yet another masterpiece from one of the greatest writers of our time.	2003-04-17
US	48339454	R2P5ZUZXXWME67	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Decent Historical Account	In this book Lewis offers a historical account of the interaction between Muslim and western cultures from a Muslim perspective. Most of the book consists of a detailed account of the Ottoman Empire throughout the ages and its response to a real and growing economic, military and cultural gap between the Empire and its western rivals.<br />The book is very informative and mildly enjoyable, however as others have pointed out, it does not even attempt to answer the question raised in the title. Lewis takes a descriptive approach, describing the long and slow deterioration of Muslim civilization, but he does very little to explain the ultimate causes for this deterioration. Why is it that the Muslim world began its decline in the first place? The book provides no insight on the subject. Having said all this, the book is well researched, informative and is a good primer for anyone not too familiar with the history and culture of the Middle East.	2003-03-26
US	48339454	R3HT032F7DN7AD	0486296725	606915359	Game Theory: A Nontechnical Introduction (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	139	140	N	N	An Introduction to Game Theory	As the name implies, this is a non-technical introduction to a very complex and technical subject. As such, the writer walks a very fine line between making the subject matter understandable to the lay-person and providing scientific support for his arguments. He is able to do this with a mixed level of success.<br />The first few chapters of the book deal with relatively simple subject matter, two person zero sum games. In these chapters, the author is easily able to explain the concepts and solutions without getting technical. However, as the book progresses, the author grapples with ever more complex problems, such as two person non-zero-sum games and with n-person games. As the problems become more complex, the author's explanations become less well organized and clear. It is obvious that behind the arguments stand solid mathematical reasoning, however since the book tries to avoid mathematics as much as possible, many of the explanations and assumptions remain vague.<br />Although I was familiar with many of the concepts in the book, this is the first book I have read on game theory. Was it worth it? Absolutely. Although I would have liked to receive more in-depth explanations in many cases, I felt that the book opened a window for me into this fascinating world. I was especially pleased with the many real world examples the author uses to illustrate the wide-ranging applications of game theory. These examples include an application of game theory to the evolution of species; and the use of game theory to determine who holds the power in a political system. More well known concepts, such as the Prisoners' Dilemma, are also comprehensively discussed.<br />Bottom line, this is a really enjoyable book that covers a very challenging subject. If a non-technical introduction to game theory is what you want, this is the book for you. However, if you are more mathematically inclined or have already read a book or two on the subject, you will probably want to pick up amore advanced book.	2003-03-03
US	48339454	R1BL77RX72AQES	1885922949	756506627	The Directory of Executive Recruiters with CDROM (Directory of Executive & Professional Recruiters)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	The Best in its Field, But...	This phone book size directory has a wealth of information and is the best book of its kind that I am aware of. It lists and categorizes executive recruiters in a variety of ways including: retained firms vs. contingency firms; geographic location; industry specialization and functional specialization. As I said, the book offers a wealth of information.<br />Now for the bad news: if you intend to use this book to contact a large number of firms, prepare yourself for some hard work. Here is an example of what I mean: let's say you are searching for firms specializing in business development positions in the software industry. To do that, you have to look through the list of headhunters that specialize in the business development function, and once you find a recruiter you need to search for the firm listing in a different part of the book to discover whether the firm serves the software industry... if you are trying to locate more than a few recruiters, this becomes quite a chore.<br />One more small but annoying fault of this book is that quite often the index refers you to the wrong page. For some reason, the last entry on each page is listed on the index as if it appears on the next page. This is a small but bothersome error that should have been eliminated in the editing process.<br />Bottom line, this is the best book of its kind that I am aware of, so as annoying as it is this book is probably your best choice.	2003-01-10
US	48339454	R1JPZWV4YW716A	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	2	9	21	N	N	A Pointless Book	This book tells the story of a convicted drug dealer spending his last day and night of freedom in New York, before starting his prison sentence. I picked up a copy of this book because the theme seemed to have a lot of potential, but after reading it I feel that the author's delivery was extremely poor.<br />This book has a predictable plot and a meaningless ending. The only vaguely interesting point in the story is where the protagonist comes face to face with the informer who turned him over to the police. However, this small climax soon dissolves and the story returns to its previous boring direction.<br />The characters in this book are all cliche and are simply not interesting. This book READS like a screenplay and the author makes very little effort to give his characters depth or life. This is one of those rare examples where the film has a good chance to improve on its literary origin. <br />The one good thing I have to say about this book is that it is an easy read. 211 pages of widely spaced text go by pretty quickly, so you will not be wasting too much of your time on this book.<br />In short, do yourself a favor and give this one a miss.	2003-01-02
US	48339454	RX5OFY7UY5RUW	0312876637	224165151	The Folk of the Fringe	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Bad book. Avoid even if you are an OSC fan!	Folk of the Fringe is simply a disappointment. I am a fan of Orson Scott Card and have read most of his books. This is probably one of the worst.<br />The book is a collection of 5 inter-connected short stories, set in a post-apocalyptic world. Nuclear and biological warfare lead to the collapse of the US and chaos prevails in most of the country. However, an independent Mormon state, Deseret, is founded in and around present day Utah. <br />Using everyday life for the survivors as a backdrop, most of the stories focus on the life of non-Mormons within this Mormon community. While this is not an easy subject to write about, in my opinion OSC's treatment of the subject amounts to little more than Mormon propaganda. Most of the stories were simply boring and in some cases I even found this blatant propaganda mildly offensive.<br />The best story in the book is \\"West\\" - set in the early days following the collapse, the story describes the journey of a group of Mormons from the East Coast to Utah, aided by a lone stranger. This is the first story in the book and is reminiscent of \\"The Postman\\" with some religious overtones.<br />The book goes downhill from there. The remaining stories fail to engage and I found the characters to be flat, uninteresting and soap opera like - particularly in the fourth story - \\"Pageant Wagon\\".<br />In summary, don't bother reading this book, instead try one of the following books that are almost guaranteed to please: \\"Ender's Game\\"; \\"The Worthing Saga\\"; \\"Lovelock\\".	2002-12-12
US	48339454	R2EKDWEYL5DD9V	060980765X	948877682	Tulipomania : The Story of the World's Most Coveted Flower & the Extraordinary Passions It Aroused	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Story of an Economic Bubble	I just finished reading this wonderful book. Dash is a master story teller whose light tone and style make history come alive. The topic of economic bubbles is still very relevant today and this book describes how one of the very first documented bubbles started, peaked and abruptly burst.<br />The book covers the history of the Tulip - from its origins in Eastern Asia, through its journeys to the court of the Turkish Sultan and its brief popularity with the French elite. The focus then shifts to the main and most exciting subject of the book - the Tulipomania that gripped the Dutch provinces in the closing months of 1636 and the early months of 1637.<br />The author opens for the reader a window into the 17th century Dutch provinces. In addition to the discussion about the rise and fall of the Tulip as a valuable commodity the book also provides the reader with an understanding of the day to day life of local citizens, contemporary culture and political climate.<br />My only (minor) complaint about the book is that while the author tries to provide specific, documented examples of the Tulipomania, he sometimes gets bogged down in tiresome detail and at other times draws conclusions from what appears to be insufficient information. <br />Overall, this is a wonderful book that both enlightens and entertains. I would recommend this book to any reader interested in history, economics or human nature in general. This is a great book.	2002-09-18
US	48339454	R3G9QVI807680J	0765602504	347284854	The World That Trade Created: Culture, Society and the World Economy, 1400-1918 (Sources and Studies in World History)	Books	4	52	55	N	Y	A wonderful Overview	This is a very entertaining overview of the development of world trade and world economy. The short essays (3 to 4 pages each) each cover a different topic and are far too short to become boring. If anything some of the chapters are too short.<br />The authors take an approach which is refereshingly not euro-centric, with many chapters covering the Far East and South America. In fact the authors' cynicism and disapproval of the hypocracy of European colonial expansion is a recurring theme throughout the book.<br />My favorite essay in the book discusses the rise and fall of Potosi, now a small dusty town in Bolivia but formerly one of the largest and richest cities in the world. Potosi's wealth came from the numerous silver mines dug into Cerro Rico, a mountain overlooking the city. Once the silver was gone, so were the good times. Having visited Potosi in 1993, I was delighted to read about the former glory and world renown of what is now, essentially little more than a vilage.<br />The book covers such varied topics as the connection between tea and the drug trade; the adoption of international timezones; piracy; the origin of coffee; and the impact of slave trade on the industrial revolution. <br />Overall the book is a great read interspresed with many amusing anecdotes that make history come alive. If you are interested in history, I definitely recommend this book.	2002-09-10
