US	48338405	R1ITVPNCHD3YA9	0520231570	189340555	Cacti: Biology and Uses	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Advanced book for specialists	This is an advanced book, with plenty of black and white photos, but no color photos. This book consists of fifteen review chapters written by established experts and new contributors. The book description states that Cacti: Biology and Uses is the first book of its kind to compile information on cactus biology, ecology and uses.<br />Because this book covers a wide variety of topics, such as biology, morphology, conservation, pollination, and pest control, the writing is quite advanced in several different subject areas. For example, a physiologist may totally understand the chapter on shoot anatomy and morphology (Chapter 2), but may have less understanding of the chapter about breeding and biotechnology (Chapter 15). In Chapter 10 alone (Cactus Pear Fruit Production) a reader finds economic content with a supply and demand analysis and agronomic content with fertilizer and irrigation information. This seems to validate the book's description as a compilation of cacti information.<BR>As previously mentioned, Cacti: Biology and Uses does not have any color photos, but it does have many, quality black and white photos, as well as many tables and figures. A basic table of contents is printed in the front, and then, each chapter begins with a more detailed table of contents. Each chapter ends with a conclusion and an extensive list of literature cited. An index, with some &quot;See&quot; and &quot;See also&quot; references, is provided in the back.<br />This is a high quality book who are interested in the biology, ecology or uses of a unique family of plants.	2003-12-19
US	48338405	R36FQXTCWLL1SA	0881924989	670068586	The Cactus Family	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Outstanding Reference Source!	Between 1919 and 1923, a landmark publication in four volumes, The Cactaceae, was published by the Carnegie Institution. It remains a landmark publication in the world's literature on cacti. Edward F. Anderson has produced a massive one volume encyclopedic work, which expands and extends the work of Carnegie Institution. This marvelous resource has been well worth waiting for as it is based on Anderson's forty-five years of research on cacti.<br />The unique attributes of cacti are discussed in five chapters. Cacti occur naturally and are native to what is called \\"The New World.\\" Only one species of native cacti is found in tropical Africa. In all other countries of the world where cacti are present, their existence is owed to the early explorers who carried cacti back to Europe on their ships and to birds that dispersed cactus seeds throughout the world.<br />Cacti as food, both for humans and animals, is addressed along with the medicinal uses of cacti. Cacti have long been used for ceremonial and religious purposes by indigenous peoples of the New World and as a source of dyes, especially the beautiful red cochineal dye. A chapter on cacti cultivation has been contributed by Roger Brown. For those interested in growing cacti in their homes and gardens, Brown's advice on containers, potting and repotting, air circulation and ventilation, pests, pesticides, and propagation is a valuable bonus to this specialized encyclopedia.<br />Pages 105 through 681 contain over 1,000 stunning color photographs (many photographed by Anderson), which are overwhelming in their portrayal of both the beauty and the idiosyncratic nature of cacti. Examples of the photographic artistry found within these glossy pages range from close-up snapshots of cactus flowers and large photographs of intriguing oddities. It will be difficult for cacti enthusiasts to wean themselves from this prodigious book, which weighs almost ten pounds.<br />The appendices, glossary and indexes are superb. The eight-page double-column international bibliography is comprehensive, spanning over two centuries of research on cacti (the earliest citation is dated 1760 and the latest references are from 2001). This is truly a state-of-the-art source. This splendid work stands alone and at the top of its genre.eight-page double-column international bibliography is comprehensive, spanning over two centuries of research on cacti (the earliest citation is dated 1760 and the latest references are from 2001). This is truly a state-of-the-art source. This splendid work stands alone and at the top of its genre.	2003-12-19
US	48338405	R2SAMV113KOEJ4	1890437271	581406244	Time Trial	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You will enjoy this book	Pennsylvania police detective is spending time in present-day Ouray County, Colorado, recovering from a gunshot wound received in the line of duty. One day, his quiet convalescence is shattered by the sudden arrival of five unwanted and eccentric individuals. They seem to have a strange interest in a place called Byrd's Song, a homestead high above the ghost town of Sneffels.<br />Among Dean's &quot;visitors&quot; are Dorrie Briscoe, a woman who is less-than-picky about her choice of sleeping partners, and whose teenage daughter, Natalie, brings new meaning to the word &quot;precocious&quot;. Neil Archer is a history professor and old friend of Dean's with a taste for much younger women, including Natalie. The group is led by an obnoxious millionaire named Henry Whitcomb, whose wife and son were murdered two years earlier.<br />Whitcomb claims to have found an old, metal, head-mounted device called the Klaxton Turban, which will send the mind of the user back in time. He is convinced that he was in Byrd's Song over 100 years ago, and is obsessed with finding out for sure, one way or the other. A trip to present-day Byrd's Song brings up several clues that tend to support Whitcomb's version of events. Could this be a sort-of time machine, or something more mundane? Dean doesn't believe in the Turban for a second, but. . .<br />I really enjoyed this book. Derouin does a very good job with the characters and setting of this book. The mystery part was also well done. I'm looking forward to the next David Dean mystery.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R1THS0OT6SYH91	0964505835	116588631	Marine Aquarium Companion, Vol. 1: Southeast Asia (English, Spanish, French and Italian Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Honest and useful information	an exhaustive pictorial atlas of the marine fishes utilized in the pet-fish interest from its principal areas of collection (Indonesia and the Philippines). This lavishly photographed work incorporates an icon/symbol system detailing aggressiveness, color-fading likelihood, diet, whether the species should be kept singly, in pairs of shoals, collection site information, reef compatibility and size range for each species of fish illustrated. Honest and useful information for the bulk of fish species used in the marine aquarium.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R1DRZIR6Z6CGIU	9812047948	734425405	Arowana: A Layman's Guide	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Valuable information on how keeping arowanas	Arowana: A Layman's Guide by authors Si and Sng contained information based on their personal experiences as arowana owners and breeders. Topics ranging from preparing the aquarium, finding the proper lighting, filtration, feeding, breeding and transporting are discussed. You will also learn how to distinguish sub-species and grades of each arowana.      The authors also recounted stories from arowana owners of Asia whose lives have been deeply affected by their arowana. These stories about health, business decisions and friendships all somehow entwined through this mystical dragon fish.     Arowana: A Layman's Guide can provide valuable information on how keeping arowanas involve more than just technical expertise. You too may begin to understand how keeping the arowana can come close to a religious experience for some.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R3VN7Z597H5VQ9	0471961558	148698861	Dictionary of Metallurgy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Accessible to practitioners and students of metallurgy	The Dictionary of Metallurgy is a small volume, intended to provide concise, easy to find definitions of fundamental terms used in applied physical and engineering metallurgy. The book is meant to be accessible to practitioners and students of metallurgy as well as to non-technical readers, who may need more basic definitions. For example, the term &quot;ablation&quot; provides a simple definition and then compares the metallurgical usage with that in medicine and geology, making the meaning clear to readers from diverse backgrounds. Bold and italicized words within a definition are supposed to denote related words and cross-references to other definitions respectively. This usage is not consistent and is sometimes needlessly confusing. Bold words are explained briefly within the definition itself, but they do not always lead to a valid alphabetical entry with more information, although the preface leads you to believe they will. Italicized words do lead to a cross-referenced alphabetical entry, but you may need another step before you find a definition. For example &quot;vacancy&quot; is defined as &quot;an unoccupied atomic site in a crystal lattice,&quot; but the entry for &quot;crystal lattice&quot; says &quot;see crystal structure.&quot;<br />The dictionary is obviously written from a British perspective and this has several implications for American readers. British spellings are used (e.g., metre, vapour, sulphide), but these are usually close enough alphabetically to American spellings for the American reader to find them quickly. Other words, like gray and gauge, are cross-referenced to the British spelling and full definition. The British term &quot;earth&quot; is defined as the non-powered return of an electrical circuit, but there is no entry for the American term &quot;ground.&quot; There is an extensive explanation of the UK standard terminology for engineering steels, but no mention of the AISI/SAE standard numerical designations of plain carbon alloysteels.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R2S59448EPUZ6B	0451199707	472703950	The Stone Maiden	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Highly recommended	When the evil Tathars begin invading from the north, young Mandine Dascaris, heir to the throne of the Ascendancy, finds herself chosen by the Gods to undertake a dangerous quest in search of the mythical Signata, a little known artifact which could possibly save her people from destruction. Destined to accompany her is Key, a cavalryman of noble birth, and the man who has already saved her from certain death. Together, they must face peril and hardship in their journey and hope that their burgeoning love will lead them to their goal, as the dreaded enemy is led by the evil sorcerer Erkai, who bears great malice towards the Ascendancy.<br />One of the downfalls with reading large amounts of fantasy fiction is the fact that so much of it is alike, following tried and true formulas. Fair maidens, handsome courageous men, evil sorcerers, magical fairy type peoples, mythical creatures etc... all thrown into a cup, liberally shaken and tossed out across a medieval landscape; it's been done to death!! Unfortunately, THE STONE AND THE MAIDEN, although well written and plausibly presented, is a product of this well known cookie cutter, and for that reason is as predictable and unique as the sun rising in the east each morning.<br />For those legions of readers who live and breath this very successful type of story, this book will be a feast. For the rest, be wary.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R8DXYQF8GPJUD	0070144516	533230684	Design and Performance of Road Pavements	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Engineers of pavement design would benefit this book	This third edition of Design and Performance of Road Pavements intends to serve as a comprehensive reference guide on all aspects of pavement design. Its six parts consist of a general introduction, basic pavement design data, specification and properties of pavement materials, pavement performance studies, pavement design procedures, and surface characteristics of pavements. Some useful features are current standards and specifications from AASHTO, ASTM, and PSA; life cycle forecasting for both flexible and concrete pavements, and comparisons of U.S. and European standards and specifications. Discussions on the latest developments in pavement design and materials are included. Even though bibliographic references are provided for each chapter, the three and a half page indexing at the end of the book is not well done. Not only the technical jargons such as thermal warping stress, rut depth, and subgrade strength are nowhere to be found, the frequently quoted ASTM and PSA are also not available. As a result this book is hardly a user-friendly reference guide. Despite the incomplete indexing, Design and Performance of Road Pavements is recommended for purchase.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	RJ20NNVMIIWYK	1893896145	238447577	Midnight Gamble	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Gideon is one of the best supernatural writers on the market	Frederich LaValois is a rare individual in that she is a half-breed vampire with the ability to go out in daylight. She works for her father Marchand who heads up the Corps du Jugement that monitors and judges the activities of vampires when it comes to hunting humans. Frederick seeks the approval of her father by being the group's greatest hunter.<br />Frederich is tracking down a killer vampire working the Soho section of Manhattan. She manages to move in with Chloe Baumgartner, whose former roommate met a brutal death at the hands of a bloodsucker. Frederich thinks Chloe's immortal boyfriend Quinn could be the killer. Quinn gets Frederich an invitation to a party hosted by the enigmatic Darcy Edwards. As Frederich and Darcy meet, an attraction springs up, but neither trusts the other as both sense something more about the individual they are falling in love with.<br />MIDNIGHT GAMBLE is an entertaining vampire romance that makes the supernatural seem natural. The story line is fun, especially when Frederich and Darcy begin their tentative but suspicious relationship. Readers who enjoy a supernatural romance will fully relish Nancy Gideon's latest offering that shows why she is one of the sub-genre's better authors.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R19X1UAQL7OYGH	096726300X	898966012	A Fishwatcher's Guide to The Saltwater Aquarium Fishes of the World	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An account of marine fishes	A Regional Account of  Species of Use to the Marine Aquarist, with notes on suitability, husbandry &amp; behavior, by Robert (aka Bob) Fenner. Foreword by Ted Chua, All Seas Marine.  Besides having a very long title, this book is an account of marine fishes hailing from the worlds primary collection locales with notes on their appropriateness and husbandry.  Including rating of species by Historical Survivability, Geographic Distributions, Species to Avoid, and Others Unknown to Consider. Notes on Selection, Care, Ultimate Size and Maintenance. Live Macro Algae, Collection Methods and Diving are also covered. Hundreds of Photos, Maps.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R3M3MCE2XRRSCC	0784402930	522159978	Guidelines of Engineering Practice for Braced and Tied-Back Excavations (Geotechnical Special Publication)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Clearly detailed sections and sub-sections.	This book is designed to aid civil engineers making decisions on using braces and tie-backs to support excavations at construction sites. The guidelines presented were first suggested at the ASCE 1970 Specialty Conference on Lateral Stresses in the Ground and Design of Earth Retaining Structures. This book is not an ASCE manual or standard. It focuses on design investigations, groundwater and surface water control, system stability and loading, and wall styles. Some topics of extensive discussion include construction methods, support loads, base stability, ground deformation, supported excavation problems, and influences on adjoining property. The book is geared toward construction sites within the United States.<br />There are eight chapters, a preface and index. The table of contents is complete with each section and sub-section outlined for each chapter. The chapters have figures, diagrams, photos, and references. Organization of each chapter has clearly detailed sections and sub-sections.<br />This is a recommended title.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R1URRS1EK1DWPY	0440235219	124194409	Swept Away	Books	5	137	139	N	N	Highly recommended	At first, I passed by SWEPT AWAY because the cover misled me. It looks like the cover of one of those contemporary women's fiction novels that I don't enjoy. But inside is just the sort of story I really likea Regency-period historical, with a great romance, a heart-stopping plot, and real historical characters. In most romances set in this period, Napoleon is a distant tyrant. In this book, he actually appears.<br />The heroine, Annaleah Fairchilde, discovers on the beach a half-drowned, mostly naked man. He is, of course, well-built, good-looking, bearing the scars of physical torture, and missing his memory. He is also being hunted as a traitor to England, responsible for Napoleon's escape from Elba and suspected of a plot to save Napoleon from exile to St. Helena. Annaleah has good reason to believe he may be innocent, mostly because of the endorsement of her aunt, who knew him as a boy. She becomes involved in his attempt to find out the truth about himself and to end the nefarious doings of the real traitor.<br />If you like a complex plot, well developed with all the secrets revealed at just the right time, you will enjoy this book. If you like a romance laced with sexual tension and interesting encounters, you will enjoy it. If you like historicals that touch on real events, you will enjoy it. It was a book that I had difficulty putting down.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R3J3AZAKMETNTB	0066210828	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Great work	A man travels the length and breadth of China, collecting stories, folk songs, lovers and experience in a search for meaning. This edition of Soul Mountain, described as the author's greatest work	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R37OHM1CBY5WXS	0750615915	437115296	Postgraduate Surgery, 2Ed: The Candidate's Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Revised second edition	Postgraduate Surgery: The Candidate's Guide serves as a companion for those preparing for the Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons Examinations (FRCS) in the United Kingdom. The goal of this book is to prepare candidates for the theoretical, clinical, pathological, principles, and operative aspects of surgery required to pass the FRCS.<br />The first edition was well received in Europe and underwent six printings. The second edition has been revised to reflect changes in the conduct and regulations of the postgraduate examinations in surgery. It contains new information about minimal access surgical techniques and updated United Kingdom requirements.<br />Part I describes the surgical training program requirements. A syllabus and curriculum of the training is provided. Part II contains an introduction to the written examinations. This includes exam structure, practical advice on time management, and writing tips. Basic areas of clinical and operative surgery, pathology, and general practice topics are covered. The organization of the book roughly follows the format of the exams. The topics are complemented with simple, concise line diagrams and tables.<br />Part III contains information about preparation for the exams. This includes a general overview of the examinations, samples of examinations, reasons for failure, a bibliography for further reading, practical advice, and lists of what to know about the history of surgery.<br />There is a companion volume, M. A. R. Al-Fallouji's Clinical Radiology in Postgraduate Surgery (Butterworth-Heinemann, 1992) for the self assessment in the clinical and radiological aspects of disease. This volume was not examined in this review. Postgraduate Surgery: The Candidate's Guide is recommended	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R2R5U3UARGO3U9	0373709625	816209476	Fully Engaged (Harlequin Superromance No. 962)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I heartily recommend	Rick Montana had seen the look in Callie Kirkpatrick''s eyes when she saw the rookie hotshot who had been forced upon her as her firefighting partner. He had anticipated obstacles, but not the contemptible anger that followed total disbelief he saw there. He fully intended to finally tell her the real reason he had left her. This was going to be harder than he thought. And he was completely unaware he had been forced to walk away from more than Callie.<br />Killer Kirkpatrick had turned her back on the ski slopes that had proclaimed her a legitimate Olympic contender and never looked back. For years, in order to survive, she could neither look back nor think about what might have been. That other life that was filled with downhill slopes, dreams of a brilliant career, life, love, her engagement to Rick. Her pregnancy. When Rick had called her, said he couldn't marry her and left without another word, she had been devastated. Then after losing the baby, she had been determined. That determination, fueled by pain had brought her to where she was now - one of the best of the Los Lobos Hotshots firefighting team.<br />Eve Gaddy's writing skill comes through again in this story. She has realistically dealt with reuniting a complex couple in a difficult and demanding lifestyle and her characterization is outstanding. I heartily recommend FULLY ENGAGED and encourage you to consider both her backlist and upcoming releases.	2001-02-04
US	48338405	R3UF06H2V2WQX2	1890087025	714560100	The Conscientious Marine Aquarist: A Commonsense Handbook for Successful Saltwater Hobbyists	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excelent Book	Here is an excellent book for beginning or advanced hobbyists alike.  If you need information on tank setup, filtration, lighting, or reef fish information this is a must have for the reef hobbyists library.  There is information about tank sizes, the various system components needed for success, heating and cooling, Wet/Dry filters, UGF, lighting types and spectrum, various additives, substrate, live rock and too much more to list in this text.  Very detailed descriptions about fish and inverts including origin, habitat, selection, feeding, reproduction, and disease.  There is even a section on fish to avoid.  All of the information and incredible pictures in this book will make you come back to it for years to come.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	R3UF43ZVX7EEU0	1563086999	994929357	Guide to Information Sources in Engineering (Reference Sources in Science and Technology)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Recommended	The number of print and electronic resources in the field of engineering continues to grow at a rapid pace. More than ever engineers need guidance in locating and accessing information. While electronic resources are becoming more common, there is still a need for an up-to-date work that looks at print and electronic resources.<br />This book begins with a useful description of how engineers use information and how they differ from scientists. This chapter is recommended reading for librarians who deal with engineers on a regular basis. The rest of the book is divided into chapters covering the major categories engineering information resources. Only English language resources are covered. Four of the 12 chapters are subdivided by discipline. Internet resources are covered in a separate chapter. The individual entries are relatively short but informative. Most of the print resources covered were published between 1996 and 1999. According to the author, the Internet sites were evaluated for their long-term value and signs of recent updating. For the Internet resources, the author has included the date he last accessed the site. The book's index is a combination subject and title index.<br />Any guide to the literature of broad subject area like engineering is going to be selective based on the author's experience. Users will no doubt browse the index looking for their favorite handbook and wonder why it is not listed. Others will wonder why a particular book is included and some web sites will no longer be accessible but overall the author has done a good job. While this book is intended for engineers, librarians and other information specialists, librarians and others who help engineers locate information will use it most often. This book is strongly recommended.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	RNUYTBSLUNX0Y	189008705X	761627577	001: Aquarium Atlas (Baensch Freshwater) Vol. 1	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Must Have Book	Baensch's Aquarium Atlas doesn't have as many species and photos, but every fish has a detailed info about its origin, care, feeding, breeding, etc. The first 70 pages contain very well written and illustrated info on aquarium basics, technology and accessories. Then comes a 77 page section with beautiful photos and info on 100 species of plants. Next is a 723 page section thoroughly characterizing and showing 600 fish species. The book ends with a section on care and maintenance, a section on diseases, and finally a huge Index sorted by Scientific Names, Common Names, and Synonyma.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	R3DB4YYQE0GIWD	0813821134	94563606	Health Writer's Handbook	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Well information	Although targeted toward the writing professional, Health Writer's Handbook is a good source for the non-writer in this age of one scientific study telling you not to eat fiber and another saying you must eat forty bowls of it. The book is arranged in order of how one would go about researching and writing an article or book in the health field. The first section, &quot;Finding Topics and Information,&quot; identifies where to locate information to help you formulate a piece. One particular helpful category is &quot;Tips on Interviewing.&quot; Some of the more useful ones include, remember to be prepared before the interview, but do not appear to be a know-it-all on the subject, review notes immediately after an interview and double check with the source on any material on which you may be unclear. E-mail communication is a great way to do this.<br />One of the best sections of the book is &quot;Evaluating Information&quot; found under Part II, &quot;Preparing the Piece.&quot; There are ten key items to evaluate, such as the source, study design, averages, etc. Gastel, also, presents an overview of good writing techniques, which might be rudimentary for someone with experience, but she adds specific examples of health-writing style which would probably not be found in regular style books. The last section has information on career options, professional organizations, and educational opportunities. While these are easily found elsewhere, it is convenient to have them in one source.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	R1TU80JJBJ21BI	0121647145	553232220	Cell Biology: A Laboratory Handbook	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Greatest value of this work is its comprehensiveness	Cell biology techniques have been continuously upgraded since the middle of this century, and future developments seem assured. In the 1990s, alone, new developments have led to improved separations capability, detection instrumentation, and new formulations of serum-free media. Any research institution with faculty and students engaged in cell biology will want to have the most current laboratory guidelines available, and this four-volume, peer-reviewed collection of protocols answers that need. The second edition has benefited from suggestions from practicing scientists, filling in gaps from the first edition.<br />Perhaps the greatest value of this work is its comprehensiveness. Laboratories and libraries can have detailed guidelines for cell culture, separation, staining, growth, apoptosis, preparation of component parts, assays, antibody production, genetic engineering, microscopy, electrophoresis, and more, all in one source. Need to know how to produce transgenic mice? It's here. How to grow viruses? Prepare nuclei? Stain mitochondria? Use fluorecence microscopy? All here.<br />Although there are 486 contributors to the 250 articles, uniform structure of articles builds continuity and thus ease of use. Most entries adhere to the five-part template (Introduction, Materials and Instrumentation, Procedures, Comments, and Pitfalls). This last section, &quot;Pitfalls,&quot; seems especially valuable, as there is no substitute for experience. The main difference between articles tends to be the use of supportive graphs, photos, and tables, though in general (if such a diverse collection can be spoken of &quot;in general&quot;) visuals are at a minimum.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	R3HTDSM52E7FH3	0945738994	97132008	A Practical Guide to Corals for the Reef Aquarium	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Recommended	This is one of the best books that I have seen on the description and care of the most common corals for the reef aquarium.  It gives information on each coral such as Common name, Scientific name, Lighting needs, Water flow, Aggressiveness and Difficulty of care.  This is not a book on &quot;how to&quot; setup a reef tank book but an excellent reference guide on corals and the proper care of these animals. Many great pictures and short but very informative descriptions make this a must have to the Reefkeeper.  By the way, Eric Borneman (a.k.a. Eric Hugo) is one of the best known most knowledgable contributors on the Internet and reefkeeping Mail and Usenet Groups.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	RW84WDMAA9J08	0231105029	466247116	Ecological Scale	Books	4	1	1	N	N	highly recommended	The editors of this volume attempt to instill an awareness of the dire need to include &quot;scale&quot; as a concept in ecological studies. Scale, in the discipline of ecology, is a difficult concept to codify and although there are many books that include scale, it is not often addressed directly. The most direct definition of scale for this purpose is that it &quot;refers to physical dimensions of observed entities or phenomena . . . (or) . . . to the scale of observation, the temporal and spatial dimensions at which and over which phenomena are observed.&quot; <br />Often, ecological studies focus on only one variable such as area or habitat. Data is then extrapolated from that study to a larger scale. According to Peterson and Parker it is not uncommon to study a hectare of land and draw conclusions at a global level. They suggest that because extrapolation of this kind may or may not be valid, incorporating scale into the original study question is essential. To date, there is no one recognized source to which a researcher can turn for advice about dealing with scale in a particular area of study. This volume is divided into four topical sections: &quot;Integrating Pattern, Process, and Scale;&quot; &quot;Interpreting Multiple Scales in Ecological Systems;&quot; &quot;Moving Across Scales: Ecological Inference and Applications;&quot; and &quot;Incorporating Scale Concepts in Ecological Applications.&quot; The essays, well written and clearly edited, are useful as an overall collection or as individual pieces.<br />The mechanics of this book are very well done. There is uniform referencing within each chapter and one overall reference list for the book. An &quot;Alphabetic List of Contributors&quot; includes addresses. The index is detailed and includes many Latin binomials, &quot;see&quot; references, and &quot;see also&quot; references. The layout of this volume makes routine photocopying and enlarging easy. The photographs, charts, and microscopic scans areexceptionally clearly presented with no color, but in good grey scale.	2001-02-03
US	48338405	R65GAPBDS12FS	0824799771	932560927	Handbook of Bolts and Bolted Joints	Books	4	9	14	N	N	A detailed and authoritative source on bolted joints	The reviewed volume focusing on non-gasketed bolted joints offers expanded coverage on the design and behavior of bolted joints and includes new chapters such as those on different types of bolts, production techniques, and quality issues. The editors were successful in making the handbook &quot;useful rather than scholarly&quot; as the chapters are written in a straightforward manner that focuses on &quot;how-to-do-it or what-to-do information&quot; and on the state of the art. For the most part, theory is discussed only when necessary leaving it mostly for the reader to follow up using the extensive references to scholarly sources and national standards at the end of each chapter. The handbook's logical organization and thorough index enhances its usefulness. <br />Those new to the subject or seeking theory would probably get more from An Introduction to the Design and Behavior of Bolted Joints but those seeking more detailed information or needing a thorough reference would be better served with the Handbook of Bolts and Bolted Joints. The Handbook of Bolts and Bolted Joints is recommended	2000-11-18
US	48338405	R32I10IPKH4U6J	0471130079	769034467	Mechanical Engineers' Handbook	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Recommended	The Mechanical Engineering Handbook provides extensive coverage on the fundamental topics and emerging issues involved in mechanical engineering, from the structure of solids to virtual reality. <br />Each chapter has a detailed table of contents, most contain graphs, figures, references, and a bibliography to aid the reader's comprehension. <br />Several chapters in this handbook were found to be particularly engaging: &quot;What the Law Requires of an Engineer&quot; provides examples and case studies to clarify topics such as hazard analysis; and, &quot;Electronic Information Resources: Your On-line Bookshelf,&quot; discusses why tapping into technical information can help engineers avoid mistakes. <br />The final section of the handbook, &quot;Management, Finance, Quality, Law, and Research,&quot; strays from the traditional ideas of a professional desk reference. It deals with a variety of topics not dealt with in similar works. For example, the chapter &quot;Managing People&quot; explains motivation and barriers to team performance.	2000-11-18
US	48338405	R3PAFDCTBV84QC	007008243X	151449426	Advanced Machining Technology Handbook	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A valuable reference	The world of manufacturing has changed greatly over the past several years. New materials and processes have been developed to create a multitude of products, but the most efficient techniques are not always used in machining certain products or compounds. The Advanced Machining Technology Handbook is designed to help in the selection of effective manufacturing processes. Each chapter discusses a process and explains its benefits. Brown does not attempt to give complete coverage of any of these processes. Rather, this book is meant to be a guide for the selection of which manufacturing process would be best for a given product.<br />Brown concentrates on describing what each process can do, but purposely omits equations and tables of data used in calculations. Some of the information is anecdotal in nature, explaining how a process can make manufacturing more efficient. Advance Machining Technology Handbook is a valuable reference for those who are involved with manufacturing as well as for students. It is recommended for all libraries supporting mechanical or manufacturing engineering programs.	2000-11-18
US	48338405	R2NSKXA5P5030C	0060975601	931191316	The Deal: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good read	If you're looking for a fast, funny read, you will not be disappointed with The Deal. The plot is intricate, the action is non-stop, and the characters are outlandish, especially the industry's movers and shakers-the extras-that Lefcourt takes great delight in lampooning.	2000-11-17
US	48338405	R2DU8BO4MSVG0O	0859761541	372939765	William Wallace	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Recommended	Fisher's book details the successful and unsuccessful battle Wallace waged against Edward's army. He details the atrocities on both sides, each equally inhumane. In the end, the reader gets a more realistic view of this great Scottish hero. He or she should also begin to understand why Scotland and England are two separate countries, each with their own history, united by a common sovereign.	2000-11-17
US	48338405	RZQJ2K0PDG4GI	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good read	The Collector, by John Fowles, illustrates a man obsessed with a woman to the point of insanity. Ferdinand, the antagonist of the novel, is a misfit of society. Growing-up as a loner, he develops a passion for collecting butterflies. He feels the need to possess the beautiful creatures with no concern for their freedom and beauty displayed in nature. After secretly observing Miranda, the protagonist of the novel becomes crazed with desire to trap her and add her to his collection. Miranda's beauty and grace as well as her life are destroyed during Ferdinand's possession of her.<br />Love is an underlying destructive force in The Collector. Both characters believe that Ferdinand's &quot;love&quot; for Miranda is what is keeping her prisoner but only Miranda knows it will destroy both of them. Miranda by death and Ferdinand by insanity.	2000-11-17
US	48338405	R13ZZJVE35DWLP	0441117732	231473731	Count Zero	Books	4	30	33	N	N	A good sciebce-fiction work	The first paragraph of this book sets the narrative tone for the rest of the work, indeed, it is the trademark style of William Gibson and his growing body of science fiction work. Turner is a mercenary in a not-to-distant future earth civilization. In this networked world, multinational mega-corporations, with names like Maas Biolabs and Hosaka wield enormous power especially over the network and the cyberspace world it encompasses.<br />In these corporations, genius scientists have lifetime contracts. They are well-paid prisoners of these giant enterprises. One such scientist, Christopher Mitchell, a man credited with creating the biochip, a replacement for the silicon chip, wants to leave his current employer Mass Biolabs and join rival Hosaka. The latter commissioned a reconstituted Turner with the job of bringing Mitchell safely out. &quot;It took the Dutchman and his team three months to put Turner together again,&quot; the author writes. &quot;They cloned a square meter of skin for him, grew it on slabs of collagen and shark-cartilage polysaccharides. They bought eyes and genitals on the open market. The eyes were green.&quot;<br />Count Zero is the second in a trilogy Gibson has created based on a networked society. The three books explore the notion of information as a life force unto itself that can be stored, manipulated, and evolved into different life forms. In the telling of his tales, Gibson introduces the reader to a rich assortment of unforgettable characters.	2000-11-17
US	48338405	R1S8SJZKESUNSO	0441007317	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Wonderful	One of the most compelling science fiction books I've ever read, The Left Hand of Darkness is a complex novel containing several layers. Its main plot is relatively straightforward, the protagonist, Genly Ai, on a mission to bring a remote planet into the Federation of Planets. Beneath this main story line, there is a yet another even richer and more intriguing tale earthling Ai confronting a race of people with a psychological and physiological make-up entirely different from his own.<br />The book opens in the main street of Erhenrang, a large city in the nation of Karhide on the planet Gethen or Winter. As the name implies, the planet puts the reader in mind of a Scandinavian landscape and climate of snow and ice. Genly Ai is the representative of the Stabiles of the Ekumen, the Federation of Planets including Earth. He is seeking to bring Gethen into their Federation. There on the street, he describes a parade in progress.<br />The Left Hand of Darkness won the Hugo and Nebula Awards for best science fiction novel of the year. After you have read it there will be little doubt as to why it was chosen. For the reader accustomed to well defined roles for men and women, this story will confound your sense of sexual orientation and leave you asking why we are the way were are, which, after all is what a great piece of fiction should do.	2000-11-17
US	48338405	RIKMFO00ROUDZ	0451198565	941617501	Fair Game (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	An extraordinary writer	I was, to use a cliche, blown away by Diane Farr's FAIR GAME. When I picked it up in the bookstore, I had no idea it would prove more than an average Regency novel (and that is quite a good recommendation in itself). But as I began to read, I found myself being greatly impressed by Farr's skill as a writer.<br />Early in the book, I found myself delighted by the way she showed the hero's personality. For example, when he's pacing a room waiting for the heroine to get ready: &quot;If he had a tail, he would have lashed it.&quot; Is that not a vivid, realistic image? And then she describes his view of women: &quot;. . . women, far more than men, seemed to conduct their conversations in a kind of code, a code that was all the more deceptive because it resembled ordinary English. Beneath the surface of their elliptical discourse lurked messages and meanings outside the hearing of a plainspoken man.&quot; And then: &quot;. . .women . . . invariably held him accountable for crimes he had no idea he had committed.&quot; Is this not the way females seem to males? These comments are so universal that I knew I was in for a good read.<br />Trevor Whitlatch, the hero, is a fascinating character. He has many admirable qualities, yet he is so locked into his culture's view of what a woman should be that he has to be knocked upside the head to finally &quot;get it.&quot; He is also very human in the way he keeps squelching the pangs of conscience because he knows that if he pays attention to it, it will interfere with his pleasure. I found him a well-rounded character despite his trappings of the typical Regency hero: devastating looks and great wealth. At least he isn't an aristocrat; as I read I was thinking that the members of the ton would be astonished to realize that people lived and loved and pursued their life's goals and became happy totally without any reference to them and their limited circle.<br />I also like the heroine a great deal. She tends to perceive the world as it ought to be rather than as it is, which makes her refreshing and delightful. It also helps her to drive the hero crazy, because she does not see why she should accept a categorization of herself that she neither wants nor deserves. In fact, I would have liked to see Trevor squirm and suffer even more, even though he was a likable guy, just because he took so long to see her as a person rather than as a convenience for the male.<br />The emotional power of the novel truly impressed me. There are few physical expressions of the love between Trevor and Clarissa, but I felt the underlying current of her love for him and the feelings that he was too male to admit to. No wonder the novel got a Mary Jo Putney blurb--it's the sort of thing she does so well!<br />Farr was not well served by the cover. The woman was pretty homely, not at all like the heroine, who could not find a position because she was too beautiful. And the man looks more boyish and besotted than the hero looks in my mind. This is a real case of &quot;Do not judge a book by its cover&quot;!<br />After reading this book, I looked for Farr's first novel, THE NOBODY, and enjoyed it every bit as much. Farr is an extraordinary writer, and I expect to see her become one of the best in the business.	2000-11-16
US	48338405	R1LU5I4XNWRM2Z	1891020625	721777619	Devil's Knight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Is not to be missed!	From first sight, Rhys Monteaux finds the lovely Juliana of Stanmore captivating. Perhaps it's that she can successfully manage to put on airs while dressed in rags. Maybe it's the fact that she has no qualm about raising a bow in readiness for battle, although her aim is atrocious. Proud, haughty and passionate, Rhys knows that Juliana is probably one of the most provoking creatures he has ever met. Yet, he can't make up his mind whether she provokes him to spank her, or kiss her.<br />Juliana is in a world of trouble. Her dowry consists of a piece of disputed land that lies between her father's earldom, and the land that belongs to Rhys Monteaux. By order of the king, the two families are to settle the dispute and make peace. Juliana sees herself only as a bargaining chip; the man she marries will be the rightful owner of her disputed dower lands.<br />None of those involved expect the turn of events that ensue. Juliana finds herself with two suitors, and neither to her liking. Rhys takes matters into his own hands and decides for Juliana, very well starting a war between the families. Yet, Rhys is far more concerned with the battle waging between himself and the passionate Juliana, his heart's true love. It will take the revealing of many secrets to show Juliana how much he cares for her. He just hopes his past transgressions aren't events that will harden her heart towards him forever.<br />With humor and wit, Geri Borcz gives us a tantalizing tale of two star-crossed, pigheaded lovers. Exciting, funny and simply delightful--DEVIL'S KNIGHT is not to be missed!	2000-11-16
US	48338405	RLAZJEXPJ7PB8	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wonderful	Lady Sofia Howard is stifled as the ward of her cousin King Edward I. She loathes the attempts to gain her hand in marriage by greedy men who covet her sizable dowry and only care to see who she appears to be on the outside. There was only one man who might have won her heart. Too bad the arrogant knight broke it first.<br />Sir Tobin de Clare must make amends for the cruelty he showed Lady Sofia. For now he realizes no other woman will ever match the fire she stirs within him with her wit, strength and beauty. Nothing will stop him from winning her heart.<br />Ms. Barnett wins the hearts of her readers again with WICKED. Her humor and artistry paint a picture of a great love within medieval England that a reader can lose themselves in one sitting. The only thing that bothered me about the book was how Sofia kept harping on the plight of women in her time. Of course, it was true, but I felt it was a tad over-emphasized and I just wanted her to quit whining and get on with the story.	2000-11-16
US	48338405	RBM1VP9DNI0R6	1582001219	104171507	Dark Changeling [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It might give your nightmares	If you like vampires, tortured heroes, and more action, intrigue, and suspense than a faint heart can handle, DARK CHANGELING is the book of your dreams--and it might just give you nightmares. Roger Sean Gallagher Darvell, MD, has a thriving psychiatric practice, is a practicing Catholic, and has an unholy appetite for human blood. He is fighting his own demons when a serial killer appears on the scene, a killer who drinks human blood, and Roger is asked to profile the killer. Before he can start, Roger meets Sylvia LaMotte, a self-described vampire immortal, at a party and begins to learn of his own dark beginnings--beginnings that overwhelmed his upbringing by the &quot;ephemeral family&quot; that adopted him.<br />Set in the present day, beautifully written, DARK CHANGELING has a very sympathetic hero, one that is tormented by his horrible hunger and determined to find out just who and what he is. Roger also has to deal with the killer, the outcast vampire that is taking human life and making sure Roger is aware of exactly what is going on. This book is a winner, on every level, but don't read it at night unless every light in the house is turned on and all the doors and windows are locked. Ms. Carter has written a book that is full of chills, shivers, and blood--enjoy. I did.	2000-11-16
US	48338405	R2QH0WXNFF4SDJ	0373258461	695390532	A Class Act (Harlequin Temptation #746, 15th Anniversary)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fine romantic fantasy	Pamela Burford's A CLASS ACT is a fine romantic fantasy. How many of us remember romances that went awry, or perhaps never quite got started, while we were still in high school? In A CLASS ACT, a weeklong high school reunion gives Gabe and Dena the chance to meet again. <br />Gabe is, as he'd always planned to be, a highly successful partner in his father's law firm. Dena, his high school soulmate, is the janitor's daughter who has become a highly successful entrepreneur. He feels guilty and she's wary because of something that happened on the golf course in the spring of their final year. And what's the role of Andrea, the girl Gabe's parents had wanted him to date, and why do he and she still work together?<br />All these questions get played out during the dinners, dances, swims, excursions and tours of the reunion. We see that the Top Gossip still has the most information, and that the &quot;hunk&quot; has become a &quot;chunk.&quot; We enjoy seeing &quot;an awkward, pimply jock with squinty eyes, thick horn-rimmed glasses, and a black buzz cut&quot; transformed into a startlingly attractive man. And the retired drama teacher, &quot;Ham&quot;, still enjoys working behind the scenes.	2000-11-16
US	48338405	R3RPIUIXAGB2DA	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The mistress of the romance genre	Alexandria Houton is sorely abused by the undead after witnessing his murderous rampage...and her only thought is to protect her baby brother from harm! She spins a tale of a golden angel who will save them with his golden magic! She describes Aiden to a T though she's never seen him. But...is he a savior...or is he too an evil vampire???<br />Aidan destroys vampires...the evil who have turned from their lonely lives as Carpathians to the thrill of the kill. When Aidan discovers Alexandria looking like a hag and half dead clutching a child, he assumes she is evil and has become a vampiress. As he takes her blood and goes in for the kill, he discovers the light and color that only a lifemate can offer! Rather than kill Alexandria, he saves her life the only way he can and begins the process of turning her to Carpathian.<br />Alexandria refuses to accept her fate and rebels at every turn! Her only concern is her brother, Joshua and she must stay normal and human for him! Can Aidan give her the best of both worlds? Or will his natural desire to control and protect push Alexandria into the sun?<br />Once again, Ms. Feehan gives us a wonderful story with a fantastic hero and hot sizzling sex and lots of plot twists that lead to adventure and continues the greatest love stories I have ever read! She truly is the mistress of the Carpathians and the romance genre!	2000-11-16
US	48338405	RURXC1VIE7XMS	155166609X	985705642	Deep in the Valley (Grace Valley Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Delightful engaging tale filled with juicy gossipy substance	DEEP IN THE VALLEY shares the day to day happenings of the Grace Valley inhabitants who can count among their townsfolk those who are loopily odd and charmingly eccentric, those who are pillars of the community and irreplaceable, and those who are bottom-of-the-barrel bad, so bad even prayer is wasted on them. <br />One gets the feeling that Robyn Carr placed each of these characters on a tiny square town map that she created, then shuffled them around like chess pieces until they fell into their comfort zones. They operate as fluidly.<br />June Hudson is thirty seven, single, and Grace Valley's general practitioner. The alarm on her biological clock is a tick away from shrieking and she knows that if she is to have a child she has to do something about it now. But in this town where everyone knows every blessed thing June doubts that her dreams will ever bear fruit. Because it is a known fact that if you live and work in Grace Valley you needed to have picked out your husband way back in the ninth grade. June didn't. Dumb, dumber, dumbest. Now she is overworked, underpaid, and time is galloping past so fast it is like witnessing the wind from the interior of a vacuum pack. <br />Sam owns the gas station a block from the town center. His priorities are clearly flagged -- when he is not fishing Sam is happy to pump gas. Sam is seventy if he is a day, with a body like a seventeen year old and eyes that Paul Newman would gouge for. Justine, twenty-something, is the town florist who provides flowers for the church. Busy-bodies in town have her supplying more than flowers for the local minister, a randy devil whose sexual exploits are legendary. As are his wife's instincts for sniffing young ladies out of the presbytery. Sam, after a couple of chapters guffawing at the situation, starts to look out for Justine: creating new May-December fodder for the gossips. <br />Myrna, June's elderly aunt, lives in a large gothic home on the edge of town. Myrna writes mystery. A while back, Myrna was married to a philandering travelling salesman, but somewhere en route she 'misplaced' her man. Since then her tales have become more ghoulish, more gory and themes of dismemberment and buried body parts are common. Locals speculate over coffee that Myrna's real life story is just as grizzly as her fiction. Myrna's character alone is worth the price of this book. Such a chortle!<br />Way back, hiding deep and dark in the national forest live the Mull family. The Mulls will break your heart. Clarence, a Vietnam vet, suffers from PTS. As a child his wife was slashed and bears a deforming scar down her cheek, but a larger scar undermines her psyche. Terrified, they live as isolates, which is what they seem to need. But they have kids and they know this is not good. Teenagers. Who need a place in society. <br />Up there on Trinity Alps if you listen carefully you can hear the DEA helicopters searching out marijuana plantation sites even on the quietest night. And sometimes sufferers of drug war wounds furtively arrive at June's surgery. One of them, Jim, brought a patient bleeding from a gunshot wound. His was a rifle request for help, his finger curled around the trigger, causing June's heart to stop. Then go hip-hop. <br />There are few secrets in Grace Valley. Robyn Carr goes so far as to make a lovely tension out of trying to keep the love story a secret here, attempting to outwit the gossip. But the gossip and the grapevine prevail - to such an extent that this very failing of the townsfolk almost causes a catastrophe. It certainly contributes. How they respond to that catastrophe is a measure of how caring the townsfolk really are. The love story in this tale is peripheral but the characters, the joys, and the travails that evolve are so captivatingly drawn the focus matters not. <br />Hopefully, this is only the first of a trilogy of the Grace Valley characters. May they live, love and laugh together long and happily. This is a delightful, engaging tale filled with juicy gossipy substance.	2000-11-15
US	48338405	R2GRQTABCRVRKC	0446606553	389854590	When I Wake	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Romantic Suspense	Veronica Coleridge is deaf. Recently deaf. She has lost her husband, her child, her hearing. Veronica hates being deaf, she is still in deep depression over her loss and there is no hope -- her deafness is not going to go away -- her loss of a child she does not talk about. <br />Her father is dying. He has cancer. To pull Veronica out of her debilitating depression he offers her new information about her mother, about how she died, what she was looking for, information which sparks Veronica into organizing a sea-going archeological dig in the waters off Key West, in Florida, searching for a three hundred year old storm mask, an icon of her ancestors, an passion, an obsession that killed her mother, that threatens to similarly absorb Veronica. <br />As part of her salvage team she hires Dugan Gallagher, a one time big city businessman, gone troppo. This man kids himself he lives to have a good time. He hates to get wet, loves to sail, has no intention of doing it tough. Or so he says. Trouble is everything he touches turns out okay. Better than okay. <br />There are bad guys out there. The suspects include folk Dugan has hired. Someone has to protect Veronica from whoever is after the treasure, and from herself. <br />The idea for this Rachel Lee's WHEN I WAKE romantic suspense is solid. However, the heroine stays self indulgent for too long, the hero comes to care too late. After his initial important appearance Veronica's father disappears stage left and returns too briefly. Villains, who promise much in the beginning, do little but fizzle in the end. Particularly disappointing is the second villain who appears only in evil whispers and whose motivations, intentions, outcomes, even at the end, are never made known.	2000-11-15
US	48338405	R2HW3C36ZWFTPF	0870499874	517484074	Atlas of the Breeding Birds of Tennessee	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Useful Book	Each species account consists of a black and white illustration, discussion of the species' present and historical distribution in Tennessee, and its breeding biology. There are also distribution maps for each species and abundance maps for most. The author provides numerous references within the body of the species accounts.<br />The Atlas of the Breeding Birds of Tennessee is one of a number of similar state-wide bird distribution atlases. While the methodology varies between the various atlases, they are still generally quite useful in providing a snapshot of the distribution of birds at the present time. This Tennessee atlas also gathers together valuable information on the historical distribution of the birds and their breeding biology. It will be quite valuable to ornithologists and wildlife biologists in Tennessee and the surrounding area, both for the distribution information and for the extensive references. Amateur naturalists, also, will find it useful as a supplement to field guides and other identification tools, since it covers the distribution of Tennessee birds in great detail and also provides more information on the breeding biology of the birds than are generally found in field guides and other resources. The language is non-technical.	2000-11-15
US	48338405	R1U8LFGE87ACEA	0553580213	671118415	Once a Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	You'll enjoy Once A Wolf	Lady Rowena Forster left England to get away from her werewolf nature. More than anything else, she wants to be human. Her brother wanted her to marry Cole MacLean but she wanted nothing to do with him. Now, three years later, she is engaged to Cole and they plan to marry in one month's time. He told her he has also renounced his true nature and wants only to be a man. What he really wants is power and wealth. Rowena is able to smooth the way for him to be accepted by the rich and powerful. Her wealth is also an added attraction. He is an unscrupulous fellow and has dominated her unmercifully. She would be horrified to know how much blood he has on his hands.<br />When Tomas Alejandro Randall tells Rowena that her twin brother needs her, she leaves with him on a train to New Mexico. She soon finds out that she has been kidnapped and that she is in the middle of a revenge scheme between he and Cole. Rowena finds her Lady Ice image changing as she became more and more attracted to her captor. Tomas is a warm-hearted man except when it comes to the MacLean's who have killed off his family. He wants to lure Cole to the west and to destroy all that he holds dear. His attraction to Rowena could be his undoing.<br />We met Tomas and Rowena in Susan Krinard's first book of this series, Touch of the Wolf. Rowena is an uptight woman afraid to let go and revert to her werewolf nature. Weylin is a lawman and Cole's brother. He is determined to capture Tomas but only within the confines of the law. How many lies has his brother Cole told him?<br />Susan Krinard writes an interesting story of revenge, lust and love. Cole is the epitome of a bad guy with absolutely no redeeming qualities. The other characters are fascinating. I was especially interested in Tomas' friend, Sim Kavanagh, trying to ascertain whether he was a good guy or a bad guy and the mute Esperanza who has psychic powers. Sim is sometimes even more interesting than the hero so hopefully; he will get his own storyin a future book. The werewolf series is an excellent one. If you enjoyed Touch of the Wolf, you are sure to enjoy Once A Wolf.	2000-11-15
US	48338405	R2GM6KA5XAR8TK	1888569115	955295841	Glossary of aquatic habitat inventory terminology	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A very well glossary	Through his book, Glossary of Aquatic Habitat Inventory Terminology, Neil B. Armantrout has attempted to standardize the terms and definitions used in inventorying and analyzing aquatic habitats. This is a difficult task due to the variety of disciplines involved. Hydrology, climatology, geomorphology, meteorology, and ecology are just a few of the fields contributing terms to this glossary. In many instances, terms associated with aquatic habitats have different meanings within different disciplines and organizations.<br />In every field of science, the ability to exchange and compare data is critical. This can not be done if researchers and scientists do not share a common language. Armantrout's glossary is an effort to facilitate scientific exchange and prevent misunderstanding. Over 2,200 aquatic habitat terms are defined. Where appropriate, more than one definition is provided. Definitions are brief: usually no more than one to three sentences. Occasionally, a definition will be accompanied by an illustration, though this is infrequent. A typical page contains twenty-five to thirty terms with plenty of space between terms. The result is a glossary that is easy to access and read. Many of the entries contain &quot;see&quot; references to other terms. These terms appear in italicized print and are quite numerous.<br />This glossary is recommended to academic libraries, large public libraries, and those special libraries devoted to the biological and physical sciences. The book's approach is wide ranging. Consequently, researchers from diverse scientific fields will find it useful. Input from the members of several scientific societies was received by the compiler of this glossary; yet, it is not overly technical and will appeal to amateur naturalists as well as students writing research papers.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R3IMYSB7SC7Z0S	0813829992	298896237	Handbook of Freshwater Fishery Biology, Life History data on Ichthyopercid and Percid Fishes of the United States and Canada	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Highly recommended	This is the third and final volume to the now classic Handbook of Freshwater Fishery Biology. The completed set compiles life history data and information on individual species of freshwater fish in the United States and Canada.   In volume three, each chapter treats a particular species of fish. For example, the chapter on Yellow Perch is 54 pages in length. Detailed tabular data on the fish are provided concerning the length, weights, weight-length relationships, total lengths, condition factors, daily growth, lengths and weights at various ages, and number of eggs per female. In addition it compiles information from the literature on population density, food, feeding behavior, reproduction, mortality, population distribution and behavior, environmental factors, and more. The text serves as an index to the literature for each fish. The lengthy list of citations referenced in the text attests to the work the author completed in combing the fish literature, it is 84 pages in length.<br />The set is geared more to the professional ichthyologist and fish and game personnel. It has no illustrations in any of the volumes. Its strength is in the summary and tabular presentation of life history data gleaned from hundreds of journal articles, books, government reports, and unpublished data for each species of fish. This classic should be in every academic, state, and large public library and is essential in any ichthyology collection. Highly recommended.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R2OHPN0GI8X57T	0849326745	271882925	Handbook of Structural Engineering	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Most comprehensive structural engineering book on the market	The Handbook of Structural Engineering is a comprehensive reference source on the fundamentals of, and special topics in, structural engineering. The book is intended for practicing engineers, and the introduction notes that the ideal reader will be an &quot;M.S.-level engineer.&quot; Consequently, treatment of subjects is highly technical and emphasizes mathematical explanations to an extent that it might be of limited use to novices.<br />The first section provides a detailed overview of the fundamentals of structural engineering. Following this introductory section are eight chapters covering special types of structures, and thirteen chapters on special topics in structural engineering. All chapters contain a brief glossary of key concepts discussed within the chapter, an extensive bibliography, suggested readings, and a list of relevant codes and standards where applicable.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R3VUXVBI28YN21	0292752067	793073428	Fishes of the Gulf of Mexico, Vol. 1: Myxiniformes to Gasterosteiformes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent publication	The Fishes of the Gulf of Mexico is the first of a planned two-volume set. Volume 1 covers the orders Myxiformes to Gasterosteiformes (40 orders). Volume 2 will cover the remaining 4 orders; Scorpaeniformes, Perciformes, Pleuronectiformes, and Tetraodontiformes. This book is intended to be a single source for identification and description of fishes that are known to occur in the Gulf of Mexico. It is comprehensive and scholarly in nature and would be of great use to researchers and students.<br />The book is arranged phylogenetically and includes a dichotomous key to the 44 orders of fishes, which occur in the Gulf of Mexico. For each order there is a key to families and then a key to species within each family. The species entries describe each fish and distinguish it from other species within the family. Nearly all entries include an illustration, most drawn from museum specimens. The distribution of each species within the Gulf and worldwide is provided. All entries include references for further study. The authors have gone to great depth in describing the families and species in the hopes that the book will be self-contained. The book also includes a glossary of terms, a bibliography of references cited and an index to scientific names.<br />The Fishes of the Gulf of Mexico is an excellent publication and belongs in libraries with an interest in either this geographical region or area of research. It would also be appropriate for researchers, naturalists, and students working in this area.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	RFK7P953QIQY0	0930118235	88358461	Pacific Coast Pelagic Invertebrates: A Guide to the Common Gelatinous Animals	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A well-written reference book	Pacific Coast Pelagic Invertebrates covers the common gelatinous pelagic invertebrates, more commonly thought of as jellyfish, that are encountered on the Pacific coast from Alaska to Baja California. There is really no comparable source for this information and certainly none that is so well written and illustrated.<br />The beginning of the book provides a description of the advantages of a gelatinous lifestyle, the role of gelatinous animals in marine ecosystems, and the range of habitats in which they occur. This provides the reader with an appreciation for the diverse and successful patterns these animals have evolved to live in a variety of habitats and niches. There is also an excellent section on observing, collecting, and photographing specimens.<br />Wrobel and Mills have provided a glossary of terms and black and white photographs of each major group identifying various body parts. The description of how to distinguish the major groups gives readers an entree into the descriptions of the species.<br />Species from four phyla are included: Cnidaria, Ctenophora, Mollusca, and Chordata. The descriptions of the organisms are arranged taxonomically. Information on identification, natural history, range and habitat, and other remarks as appropriate are included in each description. The most striking feature of the book has to be the photographs that accompany each species description. The photographs are truly gorgeous.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R1822MRN1079WR	0890541868	621955736	Compendium of Lettuce Diseases (Disease Compendium Series) (Disease Compendium Series.)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly recommended for those working in applied agriculture	The Compendium of Barley Diseases (2nd edition), Compendium of Conifer Diseases, and the Compendium of Lettuce Diseases are all recent additions to this excellent series published by the American Phytopathological Society. These compendia are packed with expert opinions by plant pathologists on both infectious and non-infectious diseases. Details on symptoms, causative organism or agent, disease cycle and control along with references for further reading are all provided in a concise, easy-to-use format. These compendia are very attractive with high gloss pages and an abundance of both black and white and full color photographs. The text is easy to understand and geared to a wide range of users that may include plant pathologists, agricultural extension personnel, researchers, and growers themselves. These titles are a great value at a reasonable price and are highly recommended for agriculture libraries as well as the personal professional collections of those working in applied agriculture or forestry.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R1GHXOOUJN1J4P	047197272X	636669974	Toxicants in the Aqueous Ecosystem	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Valuable information	This book contains valuable information organized in a manner more suitable to an overview of various topics within the subject area rather than a ready reference format. In that regard, the Preface provides overviews of the subject coverage for each chapter in addition to a detailed Table of Contents. The book is indexed in detail and allows the user to search toxicant to organism and from organism to toxicant, however, it does not work as well going from organism to toxicant. The index uses general terms such as fish, sea creatures, and algae, and, therefore, the user can not look up a specific species in the index. For example, if users wanted to know the accumulation of &quot;tetramethyl lead in rainbow trout&quot; [table 2.3], they would have to look up &quot;tetramethyl lead, accumulation of&quot; in the index and not &quot;fish&quot; or &quot;trout.&quot; The specificity of the information in the book varies considerably from table to table whether it is covering species by species, &quot;organisms other than fish&quot; [table 5.7] or taxonomic classes of &quot;creatures other than fish,&quot; [table 8.13]. Additional topics included in the five appendices are: ranges of metal concentrations in water; radionuclides in fresh and sea waters; sediment composition; toxicants in sea organisms; and potable water composition.<br />Although thoroughly referenced, there are errors in the reference lists of this book. The format used by this book [author, title, volume, beginning page, and year] is less forgiving than some others when attempting to decipher partial or partially incorrect citations. This is further complicated by the fact that many of the sources are 25 or more years old leaving the user less options for searching electronic resources (with their more sophisticated field combinations) and more time culling through paper. It is difficult to expound on errors in this brief review. The variety of types of errors in the citations in this book include: incorrect spellings within primary and secondary author's names, omission of authors, incorrect volumes, incorrect journal titles, and inconsistency in format (most journal titles spelled out in full, but some journal titles abbreviated). In this reviewer's opinion, many errors look as though they are attributable to 'cut and paste' carelessness or optical character recognition software (OCR) limitations. This lapse in editing and proofreading casts doubt upon the reliability of the editing, proofreading, and information found in this book. This title is cautiously recommended for academic libraries.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R2H7DAIDRXEXZQ	0967377307	482691879	Ecology of the Planted Aquarium: A Practical Manual and Scientific Treatise for the Home Aquarist	Books	4	33	37	N	N	A Good Secondary Reference Book	Ecology of the Planted Aquarium is a good secondary reference for those who wish to set up and properly maintain a freshwater aquarium at the expert level. There are many reference books that describe plant requirements in an aquarium, for growth and water purity. This book switches the focus from plant requirements to the aquarium as an ecosystem.<br><br>The Introduction, chapter 1, does not introduce the topic but lists chapter subjects. An introduction to freshwater plants and ecosystems for the home aquarist would have provided a better link to the rest of the book. Chapter topics include plants as water purifiers, allelopathy, bacteria, carbon, substrate, plant nutrition and ecology, algal control and setting up and maintaining an aquarium. All topics are referenced to research papers from the scientific literature that most aquarists would not have easy access to. Oddly, there are also \\"typical or actual\\" questions and answers interspersed within each chapter. The!se are somewhat out of place but do provide good practical information.<br><br>There are many technical terms dealing with bacteria, nutrients, chemicals, etc that could be difficult for novices to understand and absorb. The information goes beyond what most hobbyists may want. This is a recommended book	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R3FDN2H6O7YLZA	0080314341	260408751	Data Analysis Methods in Physical Oceanography	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Highly recommended	In Data Analysis Methods in Physical Oceanography, Emery and Thomson have drawn together a broad range of information on data analysis methods in a single volume. It is an excellent book for the experienced researcher as well as upper level undergraduates and graduate students. It could either serve as a textbook or as a reference handbook. The focus of the book is on application of methods and not just theoretical description. The material is presented in the same fashion that data is approached, from collection to analysis. Particularly useful is that each chapter provides background for the topics presented; setting a context for understanding the material.<br />The first chapter reviews the basics of statistical sampling and how various oceanographic data elements are collected. It describes in detail the various methods used for collection and their inherent strengths and weakness. The second chapter moves from collecting the data to processing and data presentation; including calibration, interpolation and a variety of presentation formats. The third chapter presents the standard statistical methods and procedures for error handling. The last two chapters cover the range of methods used for spatial and time series analysis of data. This includes not only long established methods but more recent methodologies, such as wavelet transforms, as well.<br />A bibliography and set of appendices complement the text, making the book an all encompassing reference work. The authors have created an extensive bibliography that enables readers to follow up with more specific readings. The appendices include units in physical oceanography, a glossary of statistical terms, statistical tables, and non-uniform numbers.	2000-11-10
US	48338405	R3ARTB4W8V43GN	0809711605	447245938	Spring Harbinger Journal/Ascot Aqua/Standard Size	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good nformation	This book tells all the efficient and brief information. Helps a lot about ts' subject. Low price is another advantage of this book. It is a good &quot;coffee-table&quot; book	2000-10-27
US	48338405	R2FYTLUDOSRW0I	0793803640	812406423	South America Cichlids: Keeping & Breeding Them in Captivity (Re-615)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Brief Information	If you are keeping South American Cichlids this book can be a good choice for you with it is price. It has brief and simple information but if you are expecting lots of high quality photos you will be dissapointted. It emphasizes on breeding much more than keeping them.	2000-10-27
US	48338405	R3DC9VRSFN6LOS	0866228934	812594023	Cichlids of the World	Books	3	8	9	N	N	All cichlids in one book	If you have cichlids and want to learn more you need this book. This book is about all cichlids, not like other books which are about only one region. You need not buy 3-4 book paying $50 to learn about all cichlids. Lots of high-quality pictures and brief information will help you for keeping different types of cichlids.	2000-10-27
US	48338405	RB8JH77UPINX9	1564651061	711057937	Aquariology: Fish Breeding and Genetics	Books	3	5	15	N	N	You need this book	Breeding fish is not a simple prossess. If you are not experienced enough you can cause a change on the genetics of the fish. This will cause new hybrids. But this book teaches a lot about this subject. Lots of information about efficient breeding your fish.	2000-10-27
US	48338405	R3FZ7D5RZNFFB4	0793804078	321946295	Aquarium Filtration (Complete Authoritative Guide)	Books	4	10	23	N	N	Very well information	This book helps alot for beginners. Filtration is a complex subject for a beginner but with this book you can manage lots of diffucult things. Articles and photos are fine. I recomend this book.	2000-10-25
