US	48347301	R3K2EQ1EW32DRO	0763557072	55455166	The Sugar Bush (Greetings! Blue Level)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Absolutely delightful! Wasey does a remarkable job.	Wasey describes the history and methods of gathering sap from the Sugar Bush (stands of maple trees) and creating syrup from them. She tells the story in a simple, straightforward and intelligent way that young readers will appreciate. I read this book to my 4-year-old son frequently, and he LOVES it, responding with all sorts of questions and comments. The book itself is elegantly illustrated with lots of photos and artwork, and the entire presentation takes a subject that is very foreign to many young people and makes it interesting and inspiring. <br />Parents who want children to learn meaningful ethics and be inspired by real-life young people will appreciate the work put into this book.	2004-06-29
US	48347301	R23WU94PPEEC14	089281456X	502296003	The Lakota Sweat Lodge Cards: Spiritual Teachings of the Sioux	Books	1	20	49	N	N	Oh, please! More wannabee new-age stuff.	People see the author's name and assume the book/cards have some sort of legitimacy as representatyions of American Indian traditions. But this EXACTLY the sort of cultural misappropriation that we have been resisting for decades--the endless charade of &quot;shamans,&quot; hucksters, new-age &quot;culture vultures&quot; and mysticism-disguised-as-Indianism (tarot with a feather on it!). <br />Please, readers, understand that this is NOT a fair, accurate, useful, or even respectful representation of Lakota (or ANY Indian) traditions. Go read some Vine Deloria, jr. or James Treat instead.	2004-06-14
US	48347301	R28FXJZ2POMIQ2	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	3	12	17	N	Y	Well-researched, but argues a few points that aren't useful	First of all, this book is not easy to read. The language of the book is more academic than plain, and the authors really work to demonstrate their intellect in the wording. Not that it's indecipherable--I had no trouble following its points--but it actually LOSES part of its power by not making concepts simpler, plainer.<br />The book does indeed list some remarkable facts about America's behaviors and how the US dominates world economics, globalization, cultural export, arrogance, biotechnological warfare, corporate rule, and so on. A few of the facts reported in the book are truly astonishing, and I did further research to verify them (incidentally the authors' claims were always correct).<br />But the book also tries to make points that aren't very useful, like the tortured use of hamburgers as a metaphbor for American viral culture. Quite a bit of work is devoted to explaining that the hamburger, both as a symbol and as a literal food, represents the &quot;layers&quot; of American monoculture, agriculture, and farming that injure the world. The point might have been better made without trying to make hamburgers the centerpiece of an entire chapter of such a metaphor.<br />The authors also launch the book with WAY too much minute attention to the literal syntax of the phrase, &quot;who do people hate America?&quot;. Every possible linguistic insight is analyzed.<br />Of particular value is a segment in which the US's military interventions in and against other countries in the name of &quot;freedom&quot; or &quot;progess&quot; are listed and briefly described; the authors use this list to question America's claim to be a beacon of freedom and democracy for the world (while simultaneously using military interventions to override free elections we don't like, using trade wars to force corporate advantages against Third World countries, using assassinations to subvert other countries' governments, etc.). <br />The authors also look at America through history, including interesting references to Native American authors, and the way that America appropriates and then modifies the &quot;culture stories&quot; of other people to become a Frankenstin monster-like parable of the American spirit.<br />It's the best book on the topic, but I wish it had been more straightforward. When it IS, it's at its best.	2004-06-13
US	48347301	R2KDXS4MKSYLQ8	0807738786	827549821	Classrooms and Courtrooms : Facing Sexual Harassment in K-12 Schools	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I know this book, and I've used it successfully	Okay, first off--the negative review below is worthless. Someone hasn't read the book at ALL. Nan Stein is the primary author of this book, and her work is REALLY well-done. She knows her facts, court cases, and strategies to a &quot;T&quot;, and her book is easy to read and accurate. Don't review books you haven't read and then complain that ANOTHER author lacks credibility.<br />I've met Stein, and attended a conference with her. I have this book, and it's covered in underlining now. A book like this should be primary required reading for school faculties and parents of bullied teens.<br />The book describes actual court cases that have determined what schools' and students' rights are, and it examines the methods of bullying and harrassment. Options for students andparents are explored, and then successful school programs to combat bullying are described.	2004-05-10
US	48347301	RYJCK4MUD0RUM	1576751996	56891139	Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Excellent philosophy, sometimes a little bit of a scold.	This is a book that improves in quality as you read further. The latter half of the book seemed to earn more underlining and margin notes from me than the first; the first half appeared to hammer points too often and too heavily about consumerism, the need to restore nature lifestyles, etc.<br />As the book continues, hard data is presented to reinforce the premise that our addiction to material consumption corresponds to increased clinical depression, environmental ruin, financial stress, and damage to intimate relationships. Conversely, research is presented to suggest that avoiding such traps correlates with increased happiness, improved family lives, and financial security. <br />Okay, why buy this book if those points seem obvious? Well, the book does a GREAT job at showing how affluenza--the drive to buy more STUFF--is a behavior *deliberately* developed and encouraged by social and political interests that find benefits from such habits. It also penetrates the strategies used to discount those of us who question that tactic, such as creating fake &quot;public science&quot; foundations (organized by cloaked corporations) to feed propaganda about climate change, ecology, etc. to the public, disguised as independent research. That unveiling of information alone is worth the book!<br />David Horsey's occasional cartoon illustrations hit the mark directly, as well. A good companion to this book might be Jerry Mander's &quot;In The Absence of the Sacred.&quot;	2003-12-12
US	48347301	RL7C9IB5A5F26	0415931568	547305527	Acts of Rebellion: The Ward Churchill Reader	Books	3	30	63	N	N	Good writing, but I'm leery of the author...	What a dilemma! What do you do when a book is well-written and well-researched, but you also happen to be aware that the author is uncomfortably steeped in controversies over his own misrepresentation of himself, his occasionally violent behavior toward women and elders, and his crass dismissal of victims of violence through which he justifies the use of violent assault on those regarded as political enemies? (he teased that the 9-11 victims were deserving targets).<br />Well, I guess you try to be honest. You say &quot;This guy writes well!&quot; and &quot;His research is reliable and worth collecting.&quot; <br />But then you caution readers that Churchill himself is unsettling to MANY traditional Native people who do not regard him as an authentic representation of an Indian voice or ethic, and you urge readers to research Churchill online in order to distinguish between a skilled collection of scholarship and an individual author whom some may find to be blasphemous to Native traditionalism.	2003-12-12
US	48347301	R3CAU4J5DYJK9P	0786883928	355969094	Smoke Signals	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Why I use this film to teach troubled teens	I work as a psychotherapist with adolescents and young adults. I use &quot;Smoke Signals&quot; with them by assigning them to rent and view the movie, which is always enjoyable because it's witty, humorous, wise, and significant. The movie poses two essential questions: 1) If someone else has mistreated, hurt, abandoned, or disrespected you, is it possible to forgive them if they've NEVER asked forgiveness, never done anything to &quot;put it right,&quot; never returned in atonement to undo the damage, and never begtun to deserve it? And 2) if it *is* possible--and it may not be--SHOULD you? Because if you do, doesn't that just make you a willing victim by letting them &quot;get away&quot; with what they did, and pretending the relationship is okay again?<br />Victor lives in the tension of this dilemma. As a 12-year-old youth, he witnessed the effects of alcohol on his family. His father vascillated between being loving and instantly &quot;turning&quot; to become hostile, violent, and humiliating to the young boy. Victor finds himself becoming more deeply embarrassed by his family's domestic abuse and alcohol use, even defiantly scolding his own father that his favorite Indian is &quot;Nobody...nobody...nobody!&quot;<br />Victor's mother awakens the next morning to see Victor angrily smashing his father's beer bottles on the back of his father's picup truck (the two things he believes his father loves more than him), and the epiphany stuns the mother, who insists on an immediate end to family drunkenness. Proving Victor's fears true, the father--forced to choose between alcohol and family--flees the family, and never returns. It is within that unchanged arrangement that his father dies, 8 years later, having never returned home.<br />Victor and his oddball companion Thomas make a side-splittingly funny journey south from Idaho to Phoenix together to make arrangements for the father's possessions, confronted by the racism, peculiarities, and hostilities of the non-Indian &quot;outside&quot; world. Thomas, having never seen the dark side of Victor's father, irritates Victor with incessant stories and tales about the dad's greatness. <br />Victor, having been so deeply wounded and sold-out by his father's abandonment, has become tough, fierce, aggressive...and lonely. &quot;You can't trust anyone!&quot; he scolds. &quot;People will walk all over you!&quot; His mistrust poisons his friendships, family, and feelings about his father. He's become just another tough guy, hardened by family violence and substance use.<br />In Phoenix, Victor finds an essential artifact of his father's life: a worn-out photo with &quot;HOME&quot; written sloppily on it. At once, Victor begins to realize that his father's fatal flaw was COWARDICE: the father could confess his sins to new companions a thousand miles from home, but could never return home and undo the damage he'd caused. And so his son has suffered for 8 years. Victor begins to realize that he himself is allowing his actions to damage others, and that it is cowardice, not manly independence, that controls his decision to remain distant and fierce.<br />Victor slowly begins to repent of his own abusive toughness, cutting his hair in symbolic repentance (traditional hair-cutting is done either in grief, or in repentence for shameful behavior). The process of discovery continues when Thomas angrily confronts Victor about Victor's own behavior: remaining cold and distant from his own mother, acting forceful and ruthless to others, etc.<br />Victor ends the film by freeing himself of his 8-year hostility toward his unforgiven father, and in that final act of forgiveness we find that the greatest benefit is for VICTOR, who becomes kinder, funnier, gentler, and more confident in his friendships. The significance of forgiveness, he learns, isn't to let someone else off the hook, but to let one's own self off the hook of the pain caused by another, rather than carrying that pain inside for years.<br />In the final scene, this release of aged anger is represented by the cathartic release of his father's ashes into a river, meaningfully shown in film montage as expanding in power from streams into torrents, much like the energy of either a person enraged or a person set free.<br />It is at the end of the film that we really begin to understand Thomas' original cryptic remark at the beginning, &quot;Some children aren't really children at all. They're just pillars of flame that burn everything they touch. And some children are just pillars of ash, and they fall apart as soon as you touch them.&quot;<br />Not one single person yet who's watched this film at my urging has disliked it.	2003-12-09
US	48347301	R30LX40WKV6XNI	0913543586	734569263	Yo, Little Brother . . .: Basic Rules of Survival for Young African American Males	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	WOW, this book is good...and I'm not Black!	I bought this book to be passed around the Adolescent crisis center where I work. It's an INSTANT hit, with guys even coming up to me to remark, \\"this book is cool!\\" It's easy-to-read, with large text and each page dedicated to a single idea. The advice is honorable and the writing style is classy. The authors aren't shy about any subject, and they give advice to young men that is genuinely significant. It takes its readers seriously, doesn't \\"preach\\" or come off like a scold-in-disguise. Now to find a corresponding book for females...	2003-12-07
US	48347301	R1WFTDO9VAMZ6N	0892838248	570720384	Verbal Abuse: Healing the Hidden Wound	Books	1	24	26	N	N	Oh dear--abuse is minimized in this book	The author does exactly what the subsequent reviews claim: abuse is minimized into a relationship &quot;disagreement,&quot; with the DISASTROUS advice (born of fundamentalist ideology, not meaningful understanding of abuse dynamics) that the victim's role is to soothe the abuser, thus converting the abuser through the process of granting him MORE power and control. This is the kind of logic that would throw more drugs to a drug addict and wondering why he's not getting any better: &quot;But I gave in and gave him everything he wants!&quot; I hope women who need a book on this subject will contact a local women's center or by visiting a national helpsite like [...]	2003-12-07
US	48347301	R3LW4661V0KMGH	082302394X	263487374	How to Draw Great-Looking Comic Book Women (Christopher Hart Titles)	Books	1	24	31	N	N	Oh my! The anatomy is HORRIBLE!	This book &quot;takes art to a whole new level?&quot; What?! The artist's understanding of human anatomy and correct proportion is ghastly. Torsos are weirdly lengthened or turned out-of-porportion to the rest of the body, chests are almost humorous, arms spout from upper bodies like mismatched attachments, and buttocks hang like onions in underpants. Faces are so generic they're interchangeable, except with variations on hairstyle. Apparently &quot;great looking comic book women&quot; are stereotypes that vary only in their decorative objectification: change the costume and the hair, and everything else is assembly-line rendered. Even the bare basics of human life drawing are absent in the book. The step-by-step processes aren't innovative, and are shown with MUCH better results in &quot;real&quot; art books. This is for guys who want to scratch out semi-bizarre &quot;babes&quot; and not realize how goofy the creations actually look. Sorry to be harsh, but MAN, this anatomy is poor.	2003-12-03
US	48347301	R1GBGLLKEL0736	0140280537	642357843	A Bright Red Scream: Self-Mutilation and the Language of Pain	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Review requested: Is this written for a teen reading level?	I'm looking for a great book that teens could read about this issue. I need a book that's not complex in its wording, not &quot;clinical,&quot; more toward the personal insight than to the research-based information, etc. Would this be such a book, or could someone suggest one?	2003-12-02
US	48347301	RF49BC2NRF33N	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	20	97	N	N	Word! This shizzit be thuggin some PIMP 4-11, mofos!	Yo, G. &quot;The Meaning of Everything&quot; busts CAPS in the minds of those whack-a$$ pseudo-intellectuals whose bibliophilic sets be worth nothin' more than a spray tag on Draper's Corner Market in the crack ghetto. Me and my bizzitches be readin' out loud in 'tween the down-lows. Them ho's don't know junk about OG Winchester's MAD skills--they be spitting whack-a$$ lunacy about how the OED was started with &quot;A.&quot; Man, any crip fool be knowin' they pimp-walked all the way to the &quot;M&quot;'s befo' stabling 450,000 words like fine ho's. Compare that to old-skool dictinary stylin' with only 40k small grand words, brother. Got to give peace and props to the O.G.'s in the Dictionary set, but Winchester's OED analysis sways the barrio with a whole new sound.<br />Homeboys in my hood be knockin' crack houses for bling-bling to buy this book. We be thuggin on corners and smacking our mommas just to sneak peeks at this phat lyric ISBN. Winchester be throwin' down like C-Murder in a cell, word! I pour 40's for my lost homies and bring home new words for my babies' mommas; they cheese for that cheddar like bibliophilic crack ho's. <br />I found Winchester's comparisons to Webster's whack-azz O.G. compilatin' to be MAD dogging. Simon's footnotes alone bust a cap on whack-minded fools like W.C. Minor (he a cracked-out skank anyway). This book be on hit, yo. Good to finally see a brother from the real inner concrete Oxfordshire 'hood representin' our set and turf with flow and finesse. <br />Keep it real, homies. RIP Tupac, and mad props to Simon Winchester. This cat's got it going ON, no diggity.	2003-11-30
US	48347301	R3J2MFIO27PD0X	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Actually, it's well done. But it gets too nasty.	The research is actually well-done, and it's well-written. And it's even funny. And despite what some reviewers insist below, it IS rather accurate in what it presents. My only hesitation with this book, and what cost it a star, is that Franken goes too far in the nasty, spiteful language he uses about his adversaries. It's easy to convince me that people like Coulter are mean whackos, or that O'Reilley is a verbal bully, but that point loses its edge when the author then shoots similar barbs, himself.	2003-10-18
US	48347301	R1USGAF7DXR4K1	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	3	39	46	N	N	I'm as liberal as they come, but, uh...	Moore's book was at times downright DISTURBING to me--and not in the Molly Ivans &quot;I can't believe the astonishing facts I'm reading!&quot; way. No, more like &quot;I'm a bit worried that Moore has gone off the field.&quot;<br />I'm a Moore FAN who's met the man several times, visited with him, and read all his books (I just finished this one today; I'm one of those rare reviewers who actually READ the books before submitting a review). But this book seems to offer us a lot of what we already knew, a hefty dose of NEW research, but wrapped in the decoration of conspiracy theory.<br />For example, Moore excels at researching and documenting his grievances about Bush's handling of terrorism, war, the conomy, the envioronment, civil rights, etc. Moore has been taken to task before about playing loose with facts, so he covers himself well by offering us specific sources for each claim this time. At least the facts won't be as easy to dispute.<br />But Moore sways a bit too flexibly toward his own dastardly conspiracy theories, and that nudges him toward rhetoric that becomes ever-more aggressive and shocking, rather than cunning and witty as when he's at his best. He'll cite Michael Savage as an example of conservative hate speech that &quot;liberalism is a mental disorder,&quot; but a few pages later joke about no effective mental health treatment being developed for conservative thinking. He'll title a book &quot;Dude, Where's My Country?&quot; to complain that conservatives have stolen the America he once knew, and then climax the book with a chapter about how conservatives are a minority in an America that really prefers liberal social agendas.<br />One chapter troubles me deeply. I'm not a fundamentalist about religion, but Moore interrupts his book to include an entire chapter written by &quot;God,&quot; ostensibly to &quot;set us straight&quot; about how God wants us to think. Even when I agree with some of the thoughts Moore suggests in that chapter, I am more uncomfortable than amused with the daunting arrogance of presuming to possess God's own voice, for the sake of telling us that God's voice endorses Michael Moore's will. Such a tactic smacks of the very attitudes Moore is condemning among Bush's allies.<br />It's an excellent book for people needing fast facts with their relevant sources. It won't present new concepts, but it will help liberals make their routine arguments with better data. <br />One final thought: Beware of ANY reviewer here who's obviously never read the book, and yet posts a review simply as an opportunity to advance a personal political view, bash their ideological adversaries, or post a personal message about how great Bush is/how bad Moore is, etc. Any review that either supports or criticizes this book should be investigated by the readers for evidence of insight into the book's actual content, and not just the writer's own personal rhetoric published to Amazon.	2003-10-18
US	48347301	R3ALE7VBJOZ0GW	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	159	170	N	N	ASTONISHING, and based on fact, not argument	This book ASTOUNDS me. It's not a &quot;spin book,&quot; trying to argue against positions or &quot;prove them wrong,&quot; it's simply a look at actual records of decisions and political connections (and their consequences) in the Bush administration. I find myself often gasping and proclaiming out loud to my wife, &quot;Man, I NEVER heard this stuff anywhere else!&quot; And it's not based on fragile strands of interconnecting conpsiracies; it's rather blunt and obvious--but just not commonly revealed in any media.<br />For example, this book documents in detail how Bush had done exactly the same thing with his Harken stock that Martha Stewart might be serving time for, but the SEC investigator on his case was also Bush's own personal lawyer too--and he simply allowed Bush to file his disclosure forms RETROACTIVELY. End result? Bush sells his stock moments before it tanks, costing OTHER people millions, getting rich, and then slipping through the law using the very same methods he'd later scold in his &quot;corporate crime&quot; speech about Enron. Oh, and remember how Cheney's company stashed billions in assets in tax shelters on the Cayman Islands to avoid paying taxes here? Now THAT'S patriotism!<br />Or how about this one? Bush made emissions controls in Texas VOLUNTARY for corporate polluters. How did polluters ever manage to win such benevolence? In fact, industry campaign contributers literally wrote every word of the law regulating themselves! Of more than 5,000 polluters in Texas, not one actually voluntarily reduced their emissions. Texas reversed Bush's law within the first year of his absence. Unfortunately, nobody has yet reinstated the food safety/listeria regulations for meat products that Bush cancelled during his first few months. <br />Or this one? In 1995, Newt Gingrich repealed the Superfund Tax on corporate polluters, which means that cleaning up Superfund toxic waste sites is now paid for by taxpayers, not by the corporations who made the messes. As a result, the $3.8 billion trust to clean toxic waste had dwindled to only $28 million this year (2003), less than one-fourth the cost of cleaning up a SINLGLE waste site (there are hundreds). So how'd Bush respond? He installed Christine Todd Whitman, a polluter's dream of an administrator, and CANCELLED the EPA's Ombudsman program. That means citizens have no method of raising concerns or reporting toxic sites to the EPA anymore; it's the same thing as cutting the wire on every phone leading to the EPA's reporting agencies. As a result, Bush can show on paper that the prevalence of toxic waste dumps is declining--not because he's done anything to remedy the problem, but because he killed the only available process for identifying and treating contaminated sites in the first place. And the sites that already exist remain untreated! (Is there one in your area? Check at [...])<br />Remember when Bush said that by far, &quot;the vast majority of my tax cuts go to the people at the bottom of the spectrum?&quot; And his defense that he would never pass along budget problems to future generations? And that his programs would stimulate the economy and jobs? Well, it turns out that 60% of his cuts go to the upper 10% of people (40% to the upper 1%), with NO cuts (or less than $200) to the bottom class (and yet the service cuts to pay for the tax breaks affect the lower classes the MOST, meaning it actually cost us money). The stock market has lost $4.6 TRILLION during his presidency, with 3 million jobs lost and no net jobs created, a DOUBLING of trade deficits under his gloablzied &quot;free trade&quot; arrangements (which he wants to expand still further!), record numbers (and a record increase-of-pace) of jobs lost to overseas sweatshops, and deficits caused by tax cuts that will extend into the senior age of our children.<br />And so on. <br />The book is plainly written, not dull, and not &quot;catty.&quot; It just lays it right out there. Unfortunately, I suspect that any Bush &quot;fan&quot; would simply stop reading it after the first chapter, rather than confront the information offered. I predict you will see very few, if any, reviews that oppose this book by rebutting its facts; watch carefully and guage the balance between people who actually tackle what this books says, and those who slough it off with lazy and cowardly phrases like &quot;more liberal [insert cliche dismissive term here.]&quot;<br />Go, Molly!	2003-10-07
US	48347301	R1HCE8L5OH8ZIT	156924541X	859575452	The First Year--Hepatitis C: An Essential Guide for the Newly Diagnosed	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	This was helpful for a Teen who needed it	I work as a therapist in a teen counseling program, and one teen girl has just been diagnosed with HCV. She's experienced all the common reactions: denial, grief, &quot;This is a death sentence and God doesn't want me to be happy,&quot; and fear. I bought this book for her and she devoured it. Her entire affect changed, and now she's teaching US how to relate to her, how to talk about this diagnosis, why certain things WE say are insensitive or incorrect (without knowing it), and what emtional and lifestyle changes she needs to make for health. This book alone reduced her fear in half, and made her feel confident rather than powerless.	2003-08-30
US	48347301	R10Z4LJFQ65Q5T	0385487525	295630308	The Powers That Be: Theology for a New Millennium	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	I never thought such a simple book could make such an impact	I wasn't too &quot;into&quot; the first and last chapters--I'd probably suggest skimming those. But that's what made the meat &quot;in-between&quot; even more stunning! Walter Wink is brilliant, and his insight into nonviolence brings up doctrinal and historic strengths of nonviolent activism that I'd never even heard.<br />This is the book that answers people who say &quot;you pacifists are just weak! Pacifism will only let the bad guys win!&quot; For years I never knew how to answer that, so I never committed to nonviolence. This book delivers excellent answers.	2003-02-01
US	48347301	R1RAYNHO30JS9P	1573247073	496865538	Take It Personally: How to Make Conscious Choices to Change the World	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Excellent info, but it doesn't deliver the &quot;how-to.&quot;	A fascinating, well-made, beautifully-printed gem of a book! Stuffed with color photos, eye-catching graphics, and the kind of quotes and data that makes you think, &quot;Ooh, I gotta paperclip this page!&quot; I'd like to buy a copy for many other people, if I knew they'd read it.<br />Unfortunately, the only criticism I have is also fairly severe: the sub-title is &quot;How to make conscious choices to change the world.&quot; Sorry to say, but the book never really goes very far into that aspect. There's meticulous detail on the nature and origins of globalization, social injustice, environmental crises, and human rights, but actual guidance to make a difference is fairly slim. <br />That's too bad, too, because the book excels in its ability to outrage the reader and convert you to the agreement that &quot;this stuff really matters! It's more important than I thought!&quot;, and yet I find myself dissatisfied with the few suggested answers against the many overpowering wrongs. It's not &quot;an action guide,&quot; but rather a fascinating and invaluable textbook.	2003-02-01
US	48347301	R299RNDA24MDT7	0807047155	899035591	Can We Put an End to Sweatshops?: A New Democracy Forum on Raising Global Labor Standards	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	More about legislative policies than personal action	A convincing and thorough manifesto offering plausible legislative policies or regulations that might effectively address the &quot;sweatshop problem&quot; in the garment industry, but lean on data for the personal consumer. It presents a theory on what those in power &quot;could do,&quot; and not much about what we consumers *should* do.	2003-02-01
US	48347301	R23ZKAHH828XRJ	190259357X	790328280	Addicted to War: Why the U.S. Can't Kick Militarism	Books	5	20	25	N	N	I never thought such a simple book could make such an impact	I opened it up and thought, &quot;isn't this a comic book?&quot; The drawings were simple. But as I started reading it, I realized how truly astonishing this book is. It's meticulously researched with published sources for every scrap of information, and photo documentation of quite a few events. I've even double-checked a few of its weightier claims in other research, and this book as won every test of historical accuracy I've put it through.<br />The book is so stunning it makes my head spin after the one hour it takes to read. It's one of those book I want to buy for everyone I know. It actually has the power to change beliefs and assumptions we have about our country and human rights.	2003-01-10
US	48347301	R3NPVT3TR6LYE4	1583220356	224749116	The WTO: Five Years of Reasons to Resist Corporate Globalization (Open Media Series)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Not as strong as the complete book, but a good intro	The complete textbook, \\"Whose Trade Organization?\\" is a remarkably potent, relentlessly-documented beast of a book, which I wish more people had the time and inclination to read. This smaller edition lacks the potency and punch of the parent text, but manages to still encompass most of the critical data.<br />If a book is going to be abridged like this one, chances are that it's intended for mildly curious readers who want to know, \\"just what are they protesting about the WTO anyway?\\", rather than for the scholar or intellectual activist. But I'm afraid that this book forgets its likeliest audience. For such an audience, the more effective approach would have been to describe the most extreme and outrageous WTO scenarios, leaving the reader outraged at the moral and political injustices! Instead, this book gives brief desriptions of these, and then mixes in more technical (yet abridged) histories and terms and procedural issues with the WTO. In short, it left in too much of the nuts-and-bolts when it should have displayed more of the outrageous effects on human rights, environment, national sovereinty, labor, toxins, etc. <br />A second shortcoming is that the book assumes its reader is sympathetic to such concerns (environment, labor, culture, etc.). What we need is a book directed at Conservatives, explaining to them why the WTO is an insult to conservative values by supplanting the laws created by a sovereign nation, overwhelming our Constitution in favor of corporate-managed meddling, and actually defying the concept of \\"free trade\\" with shockingly-entrenched meddling from an organization that does not have the U.S.'s sovereign interests in mind.	2002-12-02
US	48347301	RBH5TYNWKCCDL	0930464044	788920852	Productive Christians in an Age of Guilt Manipulators: A Biblical Response to Ronald J. Sider	Books	1	66	109	N	N	Sorry, but it's a panicked defense of the status quo	Sorry, I have to disagree. It's an intelligent book, of course, but it's a desperate attempt to rescue the status quo disparity of wealth and poverty by urgently wishing that the Bible didn't really mean (or even say) what it so clearly DOES mean (and say) on the subject of poverty. It's as if the &quot;rich young ruler&quot; had not only despaired at being told to rid himself of his wealth (which he loved too much to follow his prescription by Jesus), but had actually sat down to debate right back again, trying to come up with a justification for NOT changing his life: &quot;Jesus didn't REALLY mean it when He said...&quot; or, &quot;But if I actually did that, why, things might get hard for me!&quot;<br />It's a way of appearing to take the Bible seriously by lawyering one's way out of its clear teachings, but without being so serious about it that one actually changes a darned thing about the injustices of the world.	2002-11-28
US	48347301	R2ZUI6ON8AUKFQ	1570751412	498496615	Justice and Peace: A Christian Primer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	It's the bullseye book I've been looking for	Uncompromising, fearless, and accurate--this is the one I've waited for. Finally, a Christian who boldly tackles issues like sweatshops, the World Bank and IMF, militarization and its effects on poverty, America's role in arms sales to the Third World, the environment, and world peace. The facts, figures, and graphs are there for anyone who wants them, but it's not a dull government-style book. It's rebellious and astounding, and makes you feel like taking action. It's also loaded with relevant scripture examinations and lists of resources (organizations, books, nonprofit agencies) who attend to the issues Thompson raises. <br />Enough with silly sunday School classes about stories and opinions; THIS should be the textbook of sunday School classes of the truly justice-minded churches of America.	2002-11-11
US	48347301	R2F4VVF4LUAVEF	1582310017	623298289	Whose Trade Organization?: Corporate Globalization and the Erosion of Democracy	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Looking on WTO info? This is the one!	Just what are all those protesters so upset about, anyway? This book will tell you. It's a quick, accurate, well-composed book examining the effects of the WTO on developing countries' poverty, health care, natural resources, and human rights. <br />This review doesn't need to be lengthy: Look, there are lots of books on the WTO. If you want the accurate summary to understand this issue simply, this is it.	2002-10-26
US	48347301	R3F5JL7YGGGLMK	0823023974	929609582	Drawing Cutting Edge Comics	Books	2	20	27	N	N	Babes [and]  heros w/ giant muscles--cutting edge?	Sorry. It's rather typical, I'm afraid. It's a collection of obscenely-muscled male hero stereotypes, and barely-clothed babes with [a]giant [chest], skin-tight outfits and bare midriffs and absurdly-low pants (starting right at the cover). No doubt they're sexy, but I wouldn't call it \\"cutting edge.\\" Rather, it's dead-center in the middle of comic cliches that abound on any comics store shelf. While it's fun to draw and gaze on such hypersexed creatures, there's a weird feeling of adolescant bedroom horniness about it all. When are we going to see truly \\"cutting edge\\" characters who aren't all imitations of the same body with different heads and costumes?	2002-10-21
US	48347301	RH5XRPHJ97TN5	0740721356	667860921	Calvin and Hobbes:  Sunday Pages 1985-1995	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A nice reminder of the value of Art over Product	Somehow, the essense of Calvin and Hobbes has been lost in the world. Its original appreciation of the specialness of friendship, the magical delight in small wonders of nature, and the value of companionship over corporate commercialism has been reduced to tacky car stickers, rip-off T-shirts, fraternity party drug/keg emblems, and other meaningless displays of unimaginative thick-headedness. \\"C&H\\" has been sacrificed on the alter of habitual consumerism by a public so conditioned to appreciate something only by BUYING a part of it, that perhaps only a few readers still remember its strong message about art, nature, joy, despair, and magic.<br />Watterson strips Calvin and Hobbes of all the slick packaging we see in the finished treasuries, and opens our eyes to the sloppy, painstaking work of tape, ink, graphite, and correction fluid that become the characters we know. This book shows the art as it actually looks, not as it's published to appear, and we can see the smudges, the eraser marks, the notes to himself, and the corresponding commentary by the most elusive and tantalizing personality in comics.<br />By approaching the work this way, Watterson reminds us that all along we were responding emotionally to a creation of almost primitive construction, and that something created from the messiness of patience and talent actually meant more to us than plastic-covered, mall-bought, factory-vomited trinkets and McDonald's toys. The book is as valuable for its function in turning us away from this commodity culture as for the delightfulness of its reading content....	2002-10-21
US	48347301	R17HRBOFPVJZ4U	1579545076	616537910	The Testosterone Advantage Plan	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Men's Health becomes more hardcore--and it works!	No, Lou Schuler did not \\"sell out,\\" and no, the meat/dairy industry is not in cahoots. Visit the Men's Health fitness forum any time and there's Lou, along with the other authors of this book, examining this research more and more every day. <br />Going further than the mainstream approach of the magazine, this Men's Health publication takes a more hardcore look at diet, supplementation, and lifting techniques for men who want to be edgier, and achieve more, than the average guy at the gym. It takes courage for a newcomer to really believe the astonishing science--you mean fat is GOOD?--but with faith I tried it and found it successful.<br />The workout routines are tough. On paper they seem simple enough, but in practice they're guaranteed to press you past your mental limits. No, this isn't \\"Body For Life;\\" THIS book is for the man who's ready for the next tough step. Mike Mejia has raised the bar. Now squat the damned thing!<br />For us weightlifting guys who have been heralding the high-protein, high-fat, moderate-carb approach for a long time, this is THE book to give to your buddies who \\"just don't get it, man,\\" and want to know why we do all this weird eating and strenuous lifting. When people remark, \\"How you be so lean?? You eat high fat foods!\\" this book will explain why it works.	2002-04-13
US	48347301	RRYEF0J5B2U6X	0879612509	456291865	Greengrass Pipe Dancers: Crazy Horse's Pipe Bag and a Search for Healing (Native American) (Native American (Paperback))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A refreshingly-authentic portrayal of Native life experience	In a sea of for-profit new-age mischaracterizations of Native American  life and spirituality, Little Eagle's book is delightfully honest,  humorous, brutal, painful, uplifting, and gentle. Little Eage writes a true  story of how his family came to possess the authentic handmade Ceremonial  Pipe Bage which once belonged to Sioux leader Crazy Horse. Little Eagle  (Micmac Nation) struggles with his responsibilities as the caretaker of  this powerful emblem, even as he discovers that his wife has terminal cancer. <br />By consulting with tribal elders and trusted friends, Little Eagle  comes to realize that he has been the caretaker of the Pipe Bag, but not  its owner, and he faces the realization that such a beloved treasure must  rightfully be returned to its makers--the Sioux tribe. The process of  making this realization parallels his emerging understanding of his wife's  own transition from this life to the next, and Little Eagle realizes that  she, too, is a beloved part of his life which he has cared for but not  owned. Like the precious Pipe Bag, his wife is to be lovingly returned to  her maker as well. <br />Lionel Little Eagle's efforts to return the ceremonial  bag to the Sioux becomes a spiritual metaphor for his painful experience  with the loss of his wife, as he realizes the sacred distinction between  being a caretaker for part of God's creation, and clinging to a beloved  partner who can never be withheld from her Creator.  <br />The book is true,  although retold with artistic distinguishment, and was produced after years  of consultation and encouragement from the tribal elders it describes.  Unlike many other so-called \\"American Indian\\" books, \\"Green  Grass Pipe Dancers\\" is not selfishly told, nor self-centered, and  represents a humble, authentic insight into one Native man's  traditionalism.	2000-09-05
