US	48388976	R1MZJAFV4U7RGY	0743224795	261024295	Heartbeat: George Bush in His Own Words (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Core Values: Faith, Family, and Friends	&quot;Heartbeat&quot; is a collection of excerpts from the speeches and writing of President George H. W. Bush.  The compilation delineates those &quot;core&quot; values that defined the policies and personal goals of Bush's presidency.  The book is organized into chapters corresponding to his presidential years (1989-1992) with an additional chapter concentrating on his post-presidency.  The writings,which characterize the &quot;core&quot; values consistently addressed, are presented  in sub-sections in each chapter.  These are: Faith, Family, and Friends; The Vision Thing; A Legacy of Service; and In the Arena.  This is a convenient organizational tool which allows the reader, should he/she choose, to follow a particular thread through each of the four years of the president's term.  Of course one may choose the conventional method of a chapter by chapter reading.  I actually did both, occasionally flipping back and forth through the chapters as I read to remind myself of a particular point previously made.<br />I found the book to be absorbing and entertaining reading.  Having visited the Bush Library in College Station, Texas, I was not surprised by the sense of honor, duty and love of country that permeates the text.  Nor was I surprised and the wonderful rather self-deprecating sense of humor that pops up in sometime unexpected places.<br />All-in-all this is an effortless way to get an elementary grasp of the issues and complexities which confronted America at a time when events leading to The World Trade Center atrocity were already continuing to build.	2002-04-14
US	48388976	R2WMJQ3J7FYWY7	0380800659	827845161	Better Off Dead (Casey Jones Mysteries #5)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Tart Noir Delight	A serial rapist/murder is preying on Duke University coeds and PI Casey Jones is called upon to flush out the sadistic brute responsible for the dastardly deeds.  Armed with an illegal handgun (she has an unfortunate felony in her background), an outlandish disguise, a strong sense of purpose, a fat hound dog, and a houseful (literally) of offbeat and delightful characters, Casey places herself in harm's way before finally bringing the cowardly perpetrator to justice. <br />This book is an  appealing example of what Ms. Munger calls Tart Noir and a delightful romp of a mystery story.  Just when you think you have safely climbed down from the edge of your chair at the climax of the story, Ms. Munger tantalizes you with just one more tidbit of a mystery.<br />If you like quirky characters, some fast paced action, a few sudden plot twists or turns, a nicely plotted story, and good tongue in cheek humor, I think you will like this book.	2002-02-22
US	48388976	R1D9SD56SRD1L4	0312265735	385074283	Death of the Last Villista: A Texana Jones Mystery (Texana Jones Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Modest Murder Mystery	Texana Jones runs a trading post in the arid desert town of Polvo along the Texas-Mexico border.  When a Hollywood company returns to the area to film a sequel to a ten year old movie about Pancho Villa, old questions of a long unsolved murder arise.  It is up to Texana and her husband Clay, the local vet, to sort out the details and solve the mystery. <br />This is a modest and somewhat passive mystery novel.  The crime is ten years cold as the tale opens and the telling of the story never warms up beyond the heat of an autumn evening in Polvo.  Not much happens to generate a passion for the story.  We are treated to descriptions of Texana's daily luncheon menu, but there just isn't enough red herring to whet our appetite.  The bland characters add little to the excitement, and we have little opportunity to relate to either the late lamented victim or the perpetrator of the dastardly deed.<br />On the other hand, Ms. Martin has a keen feel for the nuances of the people and customs of the story's locale and she does a fine job of transferring her sense of place to the reader.  I was intrigued by the depth of detail she conveys in such an unintrusive way.<br />The three star rating I give this book indicates a novel which places somewhere below &quot;excellent&quot; and certainly above &quot;a waste of your time.&quot;  Indeed, it is the type of book which just about fits the bill for a quick summer read or a curl up by the fireplace winter diversion.	2002-01-03
US	48388976	R3NF51T2VYHGWL	1886913226	604287152	A False Spring (A Ruminator Find)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Uncommon Baseball Memoir	I ran across Pat Jordan's A False Spring  many years ago. I was intrigued by the book then and I still rate it as one of my all-time favorite sports books. It is a sports memoir which is unique in the genre in that it is a story of a loss of talent as well as the discovery of self. <BR>   <BR>Pat Jordan was a high school baseball phenomenon in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1959. At the end of his high school career, he signed a bonus contract with the Milwaukee Braves. His first assignment was in McCook, Nebraska in the class D Nebraska State League. Another young pitcher named Phil Niekro was a teammate. Their careers would take decidedly different paths. Niekro would go on to a brilliant major league career, but in three years Pat Jordan would lose his fastball and be out of baseball for good. <br />Time Magazine said of the book: <BR>&quot;Pat Jordan is a failure by all professional baseball standards. But it is in the dissection of that failure that his book discloses the dimensions of a man and a game ... for out of Ex-Pitcher Jordan's experience has come one of the best and truest books about baseball, and about coming to maturity in America.&quot; <br />This is a fascinating story.  If it grabs you like it did me when I first read it , it will  find a permanent place in your sports library.	2001-11-27
US	48388976	R1TIMJZVAQTZ03	0312272111	123771124	My Greatest Day in Football: The Legends of Football Recount Their Greatest Moments	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Players - Great Memories	McCullough had an interesting concept for this book.  He picked great professional football players (Hall of Famers) from each era of the game and asked them to tell about their greatest day in professional as well as college football.  In addition, he asked them about their greatest opponent and their greatest teammate.  All in all, twenty-nine of football's greatest were interviewed.  It is a group of players sure to bring back fond memories of great players, great teams, and great games.  Included among those interviewed are Bart Starr, Terry Bradshaw, Chuck Bednarik, Raymond Berry, Frank Gifford, Lawrence Taylor, and Y.A. Tittle.<br />As might be expected, many of the remembrances are centered on championship contests, Super Bowls, and Hall of  Fame experiences.  Many of the players didn't respond to the questions concerning opponents and teammates, but most did talk about college games or others as well as their NFL experiences.  Raymond Berry, for example, remembered his first championship game as a member of the Parish, Texas high school team.  All, however, spoke of their induction into the NFL Hall of Fame as among their fondest memories.<br />I had, of course, heard or read about all the athletes included in the book, but I didn't know much about the careers of some of the early heroes such as Pete Pihos or Bob St. Claire.  Reading through the various stories was like getting a football history lesson.<br />This is an interesting and easy to read book.  I finished it in two sittings and enjoyed every chapter.  If you are a fan of NFL football, you're sure to find some keen memories kindled as you read this book.	2001-11-24
US	48388976	R19UMPYP9SOQVQ	0967466822	502107473	30 Toy Vehicles of Wood	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Small Workshop - Great Fun	Several really nice things about building the types of wooden toys outlined in this book are  that once you have the necessary tools to do the job it is a relatively inexpensive hobby, it can be done within a fairly small work space so no large woodworking shop is needed, and there is enough variety in the projects to keep you interested and enthusiastic for a long while.<br />As for the required tools, the author suggests a work shop equipped with a bench drill press for accuracy, a band saw, a hand held orbiting sander, a circular saw, a scroll saw, a belt sander, and a router.  Most of these projects can, however, be built without all the above.  Tarjany does, however, suggest a minimum wood toy shop be equipped with a band saw, a bench drill press, and a bench disc sander.<br />As the title suggests, the book contains 30 toy vehicles in a wide variety of shapes.  Included are a toy sports car, a low wing plane, a helicopter, several types of work vehicles, and a small diesel freight train among other projects.  For each project there are detailed instructions, line drawings, photographs, and a list of required materials.  Helpful hints are provided along the way, but the budding toy maker will need to know the basics of measuring, cutting, glueing, finishing, etc.<br />This is a well done book.  If you believe you would like to get involved in the fascinating and rewarding hobby of making toy vehicles of wood, this is a good book to buy in addition to a basic primer in woodworking techniques.	2001-11-18
US	48388976	R1B0FKTK672X4I	0743200748	867939499	Comrades: Brothers, Fathers, Heroes, Sons, Pals	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Celebration of Friendship	This book, a celebration of male friendship, is an interesting mix of autobiography and history. Ambrose relates his warm relationship with his brothers and his father and continues in this context to relate the stories of many strong male relationsips through the years. Readers will find stories among others about the friendship of Dwight Eisenhower with his six brothers, of the comraderie among the soldiers of Easy Company during WWII, the interdependence between Souix Chief Crazy horse and his friend He Dog, and the bond between explorers Lewis and Clark. Some of the stories are emotional. All are interesting. This is an easily read well written book about some seldom mentioned slices of history told from a unique perspective.	2001-11-17
US	48388976	R1ZJXRTZZ86PWK	0380978490	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, And The Man Who Won The War	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Reminder of Courage, Honor, and Duty	Bob Greene's father, a World War II veteran, often spoke in admiration of Paul Tibbets who lived in quiet solitude in their hometown in Ohio. Tibbets was, in the eyes of Greene's father, &quot;the man who won the war.&quot; After Greene's father passed away, Greene began a quest to better understand his father and the generation from which he came. Tibbets, who piloted the bomber which dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima, became a mentor and friend. Through Tibbet's remembrances and Greene's memories of his father, the book becomes an absorbing and intimate tribute from a son to his father and to a generation whose values were embodied in the concepts of honor, duty, and courage. This is a wonderfully well written book replete with fascinating insights into the personality of the man who triggered the most devastating act in the history of man.<br />I re-read portions of this book after the tragic events of September 11 as a reminder to myself of the courage and unselfishness of past Americans who did their duty in a time of war.  I recommend it as a reminder of those veterans as well as an interesting and insightful look at the importance of determination and strength during anxious times.	2001-11-16
US	48388976	R1BURRAAA8NPVY	0375505814	862963413	An Album of Memories: Personal Histories from the Greatest Generation	Books	4	13	15	N	N	More Memories of Courage	Brokaw has certainly done his share to bring to the current generation the story of the generation which sacrificed and fought so gallantly in World War II.  This is the third in a series of remembrances of those whom Brokaw called the greatest generation. The other two volumes are &quot;The Greatest Generation&quot; and &quot;The Greatest Generation Speaks.&quot;  These stories are for the most part told through letters home from those who were away on foreign soil and through letters written recently to Brokaw from those who lived through the experience.  As in the other books in the series, these stories tell of heroism, courage, loss and disappointment, and triumph over tragedy.  These stories are no more nor less important to the understanding of the human side of the conflict as those related in the previous books; however, even though each story is unique in its telling, those who have read either or both of the previous books will begin to find a sameness about this volume which comes from familiarity.  That sense of having read much of this before somewhat diminished my enjoyment of the book.  If, however, this is your first introduction to the triad, I believe that you will be touched deeply by the book's contents.	2001-06-07
US	48388976	R2F0PHLZOYM0BI	0940672448	35363313	Fishing Texas: An Angler’s Guide (Angler's Guides)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Just For Texas Anglers	Don't be fooled by the title because this is a fine guide which can be used by fishermen almost anyplace where there is access to saltwater and/or freshwater fishing. Small enough to fit into a tackle box, this book includes color illustrations of 120 freshwater and saltwater fish found in Texas and other parts of the country. With each illustration comes information on spawning habits, habitats, and preferred baits. Also included are handy tips from experienced fishermen, information on equipment, angling basics, when and where to catch fish, and other useful topics. This is not a new book ,but one which has passed the test of time. I recommend it as one of the first things you put in your boat or tackle box before you take your next fishing trip.	2001-06-03
US	48388976	R16QK73FZX8IC5	0684868857	366534072	Roads : Driving America's Great Highways	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interstate Philosophy	Among the many attributes of McMurtry's novels is the well defined sense of place. Since this is not a work of fiction, the same feeling of \\"being there\\" is missing. What we get instead is a reminder of how long and tedious lengthy trips along the Interstate Highway System can be.<br />For this book, McMurtry decided to travel the Interstate Highways much the same as early settlers traveled the great rivers of the still developing country. That seemed a really good idea in theory, but the sense of adventure that drove those pioneers is pretty much missing here. He undertook several trips down these highways (generally traveling from east to west or north to south for reasons explained in the book) and recorded his thoughts as he went. <br />This is not a travel book in any sense of the popular definition, but McMurtry serves as travel guide, historian, and literary commentator as he drives. Readers will probably find some interesting insights into local history and they will be reminded when and where some locations were used in his novels.  McMurtry is always outspoken, and some will not agree with his assessments of what he finds along the way; nevertheless, the trip may be worthwhile reading for some. I found the book only moderately interesting.	2001-06-03
US	48388976	R1W8MRYZLHK9IB	0940672448	35363313	Fishing Texas: An Angler’s Guide (Angler's Guides)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Not Just For Texas Anglers	Don't be fooled by the title because this is a fine guide which can be used by fishermen almost anyplace where there is access to saltwater and/or freshwater fishing. Small enough to fit into a tackle box, this book includes color illustrations of 120 freshwater and saltwater fish found in Texas and other parts of the country. With each illustration comes information on spawning habits, habitats, and preferred baits. Also included are handy tips from experienced fishermen, information on equipment, angling basics, when and where to catch fish, and other useful topics. This is not a new book, but one which has passed the test of time. I recommend it as one of the first things you put in your boat or tackle box before you take your next fishing trip.	2001-06-03
US	48388976	RGKOLV654L3K0	0553802135	390156756	May There Be a Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Summertime Reading	I have long been a fan of the western adventure stories of Louis L'Amour, especially the series chronicling the Sackett family, so I picked up this collection of short stories in eager anticipation.  While this collection includes only three stories set in the old west, I was certainly not in any way disappointed. These ten stories include, as Beau L'Amour points out, some of the author's earliest writings.  &quot;Ghost Fighter&quot; and &quot;Fighter's Fiasco&quot; were the second and third short stories that Louis L'Amour ever sold, while &quot;Wings Over Brazil&quot; was one of the last two short stories in the Ponga Jim Mayo Series.  The characters and locales are a varied lot which range from groom-to-be Tohkta in the Kunlum Mountains of northern Tibet to the hulking brawling boxer Bambo Bamoulian in New York City.  Regardless of location, what these stories have in common is L'Amour's consummate story telling skills.  That alone should suffice as an incentive to give the book a try.  It is a collection full of action, adventure, unexpected twists and turns, and characters rising to meet challenges and overcome great odds.  It's just what the doctor ordered (pardon the cliche')for some great summertime reading.	2001-05-26
US	48388976	R31CRE1IVW8K07	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Captivating Historical Narrative	This is an absorbing well written easy to read insight into a time period in United States history which was brimming with opportunity as well as potential disaster.  Winik proposes that  April, 1865, is a month which was pivital in deciding the future of the nation.  Whether this is literally true or not must be left to scholars more versed in the nuances of the time than I am to decide.  What is clear to me is that several major events did come together at this time including, among others, the assassination of President Lincoln, the transfer of power in the middle of a crisis situation, Lee's decisions concerning the ultimate fate of the Army of Northern Virginia, and Grant's determination to show generosity at Appommatox.<br />Winik connects these events in a narrative style which makes history vividly real and engrossing.  One example among many which might be cited is the description of the meeting between Lee and Grant at Appomattox.  Lee, proud in defeat and attempting to salvage what he can for his officers and men, suggesting in a quiet way changes in the articles of surrender which Grant &quot;must have overlooked,&quot; and Grant, with respect and admiration for his adversary agreeing that, indeed, he certainly meant the agreement to read in the way suggested shows rather than tells of the relationship between the two men at that instant in history.  This is, in my opinion, very good writing and wonderful imagery.<br />This is history written to be enjoyed.  History buffs and casual readers of the genre surely will not be disappointed in this book.	2001-05-25
US	48388976	R1T4SPCIXXRST0	0060197846	414816337	A Different Drummer: My Thirty Years with Ronald Reagan	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Profile of a Patriot	Michael Deaver worked for Ronald Reagan for more than thirty years and got to know him perhaps as well as anyone outside the president's immediate family.  According to his own account, he once asked Reagan if the president considered Deaver like a son. To which Reagan replied, &quot;not as a son, maybe more like a brother.&quot;  This, then, is not an unbiased portrait of President Reagan; nevertheless, it is one which rings true.<br />Written in a comfortable almost conversational and informal style, Deaver tells the story of a man he considers to be a true American patriot.  Deaver's thesis may be best understood by quoting briefly from the book concerning Reagan's impact on America.<br />&quot;Americans rightly were beginning to doubt themselves, but a man came along who knew the true score.  He knew that better times were ahead because 'after all we're Americans.'  The nation cried out, and a guy named Ron answered the call.  He resuscitated not only the diminished office of the president, but the national pride that had laid dormant since the early 1960's.  Clearly, Reagan was the right man at the right time, and history will bear his name triumphantly.&quot; (p. 123)<br />Reagan certainly did dance to the beat of a different drummer in many significant ways.  Even if you are one who does not admire his policies, I think you will put the book down having gained a new admiration for the man.  For those to whom Reagan is a hero, this is a must read book.	2001-05-07
US	48388976	RJQWP61P66JE8	0316591564	441021432	The Oldest Rookie: Big-League Dreams from a Small-Town Guy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dreams Can Come True	Jim Morris was a kid with big league baseball ambitions and a big league arm to match.  Drafted by the Milwaukee Brewers, he spent time in their minor league system working his way toward the majors until injuries to his arm as well as his shoulder sent him to the hospital for surgery and then back to Texas where he scrambled to make a living.  He married and had a family, but he never really gave up his dream.  Finally, as he coached the Reagan County Texas High School baseball team to a championship, he made a pledge to his players.  If they were successful, he would try one more time to pitch on the big league level.  They were and he did.  At at time in his life when most professional athletes are thinking of retirement, Morris made it to the majors with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.  That his old arm problems continued to haunt him seems almost irrelevant.  This is a very well written and easy to read story of perserverance and pride told around the narrative of one man's quest to fulfill his dream.  The framework of the story is present day baseball, but the quest is timeless. Recommended to all who dream.	2001-03-30
US	48388976	R2GE8IUF9GF5P0	0767906969	723456328	The Official Rent-A-Husband Guide to a Safe, Problem-Free Home: Quick, Easy, and Effective Solutions for Do-It-Yourself Improvement and Repairs	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Handy Guide To Home Maintenance	The author of the book, Kaile Warren, Jr., is also the owner of the Rent-A-Husband handyman business.  As such, he has real life experience concerning what the target audience for this book wants and needs to know.  It is a handy basic primer covering a myriad of topics on simple household repair problems, storage solutions for all areas of the house, and home safety and security tips.  All in all it is a really nice book to keep as a handy quick reference.<br />The first section of the book concentrates on basic terminology and provides information on which tool is right for a particular job.  Everything from power tools to nails gets a quick explanation.  Also included in this section is advice on how to tackle common household repairs to faucets, toilets, electrical outlets, faulty lamps and switches, and tips on installing floor tile and sheet viny.  One other thoughtful addition is the discussion of when to decide not to take on a repair job and instead call in an expert.<br />The section on storage solutions for all areas of the house is well done.  It includes buying tips for a variety of modular and other units.  There are even instructions for the adventurous who want to build some units for themselves.<br />Part three of the book discusses and illustrates several facets of home security and home safety considerations.  For those living alone, this section of the book alone may well be enough justification for buying it.<br />If you fall within the specific target audience (the title will give you a clue as to whether you do or don't), this is a very nice book to have.	2001-03-20
US	48388976	RI21QI73JDW37	1558748865	982609737	Chicken Soup for the Gardener's Soul: 101 Stories to Sow Seeds of Love, Hope and Laughter (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Pleasure of Planting	Another in the series of books with similar titles and formats.  This time it is 101 stories relating to the joys of gardening and the personal, physical, and emotional benefits of the act of working with the soil to bring life to plants of all kinds.<br />Among the generalized headings for the stories are:  The Joy of Gardening, Blossoming Friendships, Love in Bloom, Making A Difference, Little Sprouts, The Seasons of Life, Overcoming Obstacles, The Family Tree, and Potpurri.  You can probably guess the general themes of the stories which make up each section.  They range from the ridiculous to the thought provoking.  I enjoyed most all of the stories.  Two of my favorites were emotional in style.<br />One of my favorite stories is that written by Nelson Mandela about the garden he was eventually given permission to start while imprisoned on Robben Island.  In summary, not only did the garden provide an &quot;enduring satisfaction,&quot; but, as Mandela states, &quot;a small taste of freedom.&quot;<br />Another story I enjoyed is Henry Boye's &quot;A Son's Harvest&quot; which relates how after being estranged from his father for thirty-nine years, their realization that both father and son were gardeners gave them a common ground for the establishment of a relationship.  Having been given vegetable seeds by his father, Boye relates that now planting something that can be eaten in the garden each year serves as a constant reminder of that relationship.<br />There are many interesting short compositions in the book. If you have ever taken pride in a well planted garden, you are sure to find a few which are particularly pleasing or meaningful to you.	2001-02-15
US	48388976	RSUF1GXCUVUR6	0743211936	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A President Remembers	In a memoir originally started as a remembrance for his grandchildren, President Carter recalls the story of his boyhood in Plains Georgia.  His was a youth spent in a farming community during the period of the great depression of the 1930's and before civil rights legislation changed the social fabric of the nation.  Carter states that the book was written &quot;to understand and explain myself better, to recount interesting experiences, and perhaps to bring some perspective to our rapidly changing circumstances as we enter a new millennium.&quot;<br />There is no doubt that the circumstances of his youth had a profound effect on his attidtudes and his performance during his presidency, especially as it related to his stands on social programs.  He confesses embarrassment about the treatment of his black neighbors by his family and others in a society in which those actions were the the norm of his time, and he makes it clear that his life and the life of his family was deeply rooted in the land and the customs of the area.<br />Written in an easily flowing and personal style, the book is an interesting insight into the roots of the thirty-ninth President of the United States.  It is a very worthwhile read which led me to view President Carter in a new light.	2001-02-09
US	48388976	R3V7QCGZ9QQRUT	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Interesting Insight Into the Country's Formative Years	America is what it is today because of the precedents set by the politics of those who governed in the first decade of its existence.  Ellis uses this premise as he examines the struggle between two competing political viewpoints during the country's formative years.  One revolutionary view espoused the principle of individual freedom as the major benefit of the struggle for independence.  The competing revolutionary view stressed the collectivistic principle which emphasized the need to surrender some measure of personal, state, and sectional independence for the benefit of the larger American community as a whole.<br />Ellis present six important scenarios which demonstrate the conflicts which the early leaders of our republic had to manage.  These are: (1) the duel between Alexander Hamilton and James Burr; (2) a compromise between James Madison and Alexander Hamilton in which state debt would be assumed by the federal government and the capital would be established on the Potomac; (3) the tacit agreement to ignore the problem of slavery and the slave trade early in the beginnings of the nation; (4) George Washington's farewell address and its implications; (5) Adam's succession of Washington as president and his efforts to pass the presidency along to his own son; (6) the relationship, feud, and eventual reconcilliation between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.<br />This is an interesting look at the formative years of our nation. It would serve as an excellent primer for those who are interested in our history but may not have read extensively on the subject.  It is not a particularly quick read.  The prose is sometime ponderous and subject matter occasionally requires a quick look back to previously read passages to verify the importance of the current text and to facilitate an understanding of the conflict; however, I found its reading to be well worth my while.	2001-02-04
US	48388976	R1H0BMBZPS4SES	0380975122	499378390	Flashing Before My Eyes: 50 Years of Headlines, Deadlines & Punchlines	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Who's Who in Sports	This is a &quot;sort of&quot; autobiography of Dick Schaap, one of the country's most prolific chronicler of sports and the people of sports.  It outlines his rise from the streets of the Flatbush section of Brooklyn to his present position as ABC correspondent and host of his own show on ESPN.  Schaap tells his life's story, for the most part, as it has been entwined around his meetings, conversations, and friendships with the most famous names in sports.  Never have so many names been dropped with such aplomb and in such an entertaining manner.<br />The book is a joy from beginning to end.  The chapter called &quot;Collector's Items,&quot; a series of recollections of very short humorous and/or ironic encounters with the famous, leads the reader into a fascinating journey through Schaap's life and reveals his remarkable story telling style.  Any attempt to mention all the greats and near greats of sports that Schaap refers to in the book would border on the ridiculous.  It's enough, I think, to state that he includes always interesting and mostly humorous stories and insights about almost every important (and self-important) sports personality of the past fifty or so years.<br />I absolutely enjoyed this book.  If you ever had dreams of getting to know the sports &quot;heroes&quot; of your youth or adulthood, chances are Schaap has actually lived out that fantasy.  With his great talent with words, he can carry you along to vicariously do the same.	2001-02-03
US	48388976	RZ1KR2Z1J4AXC	0684863650	467944200	Eye Of The Storm: A Civil War Odyssey	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Powerful Civil War Memoir	Private Robert Sneden of the 40th New York Volunteers was trained in architecture and engineering and assigned to make detailed maps of the unknown terrain being traversed by the Union Army.  This assignment gave him unusual freedom to roam the areas and battlefields to which he was assigned.  Fortunately he kept a daily journal and made well drawn sketches and watercolor paintings as he went.  The book covers the period from September 29, 1861, shortly after he joined McClellan's army encamped at Leesburg, Virginia, to December 26, 1864, when he was finally reunited with his family.  With an artist's eye for detail and a surprisingly deft ability with the English language, Sneden provides the reader with some of the most memorable descriptions, watercolor colors of scenes, and eyewitness accounts ever published on the Civil War. Sneden's experiences can broadly be divided into two major periods.<br />The first general section of his journal concerns the events connected with McClellan's move toward the botched siege of Yorktown, Virginia, and ends with the bloody battles of the 7 Day's War in which Lee attacked the Union forces at Mechanicsville and forced the ensuing retreat.  Sneden's almost matter-of-fact descriptions of the fighting, confusion, carnage, small unit movements, individual heroism, death, and destruction are powerful and moving.<br />The second general section of Sneden's journal concerns the events leading up to his capture by Mosby's Confederate cavalry, his internment first in Richmond and finally at the infamous Andersonville, and his eventual release and reunion with his family.  No brief review could possibly do justice to the descriptions of the inhumanity displayed at these prison facilities.  Sneden's accounts are strong, detailed, and painful to read.<br />I highly recommend this book.  It is a book which belongs in the collection of anyone interested in United States history and the Civil War in particular.	2001-01-08
US	48388976	R1GS4EYQGEJ0K1	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Love the Show - Liked the Book	On his television show &quot;The O'Reilly Factor,&quot; Bill O'Reilly comes off as opinionated, bombastic, and egotistical. He frequently has quests who are acknowledged leaders in their field and barely lets them get a word in edgewise in his eagerness to state his own opinions.  He is also possessed of a great self-deprecating sense of humor.  I love his show.<br />The book tends to reflect a kinder gentler, but no less pithy, persona.  Leaning heavily on a well developed modicum of common sense, O'Reilly gives us his opinions on a variety of topics.  Among the subjects on which he pontificates are money - splurge on the essentials and avoid the frills; sex - it's great, but keep your sexual activities out of the public eye; politics - most Americans don't have a clue about the basics; drugs and alcohol - it's time America got serious about solving the problem; and religion - &quot;It doesn't matter what you believe--as long as you believe in something.&quot;<br />The opening chapter of the book which deals with the class system in America gives O'Reilly a chance to let the reader in on some interesting biographical information such as his relationship with his father, his enrollment at Marist College, his first job as a high school teacher, and his eventual enrollment in Boston College to work on a Master's Degree in journalism.  However, the main thrust of this section is to illustrate that how one acts and dresses and comports oneself is very important to career success in America.  This chapter also sets the tone for the format of the book - some short discussions, some &quot;time outs,&quot; some &quot;ridiculous notes,&quot; and some &quot;talking points&quot; interspersed at appropriate times with the pace designed to mimic the television show.<br />I found the best way to enjoy this book was to take it a few chapters at a time.  As a matter of fact, I didn't find the book sustained my interest for longer periods of time.  After a chapter or two, I was ready to move on to other things for a while.  I guess this might be the ideal bedside book.  Read awhile, rest awhile, then come back and do it all over again.<br />Love the show, but only liked the book.	2001-01-07
US	48388976	RSUJ103ZRWF6T	0671047507	6554885	Bloody River Blues (Location Scout)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Lightweight Mystery	John Pellam, a movie location scout with a checkered past, finds himself caught in the middle of a real life murder for hire scenario in which he becomes the main witness. Withstanding pressure from the local police, federal agents, and the perpetrators, he must take matters into his own hands and bring down the curtain on the case. Along the way he becomes involved with a mysterious blonde, assorted hit men, and a partially paralyzed policeman.<br />Deaver's John Pellam is a reasonaably interesting character. He personifies the typical anti-hero, and we get a fairly clear picture of his strengths and weaknesses. Except for Donnie Buffett, the partially paralyzed police officer, all of the other characters are shallow.<br />This is a moderately interesting book. The story line is straight forward and we learn early on much of what we need to know to follow along as observers with Pellam. There are not many twists and turns to ratchet up the suspense level here. I'd say this is a nice book to curl up with beside the fireplace on a long winter's night. It's an easy read to help while away the hours.	2000-12-13
US	48388976	R2S8L5QV2C18OL	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A High Standard Well Met	When their country and the world was threatened by totalitarian forces, this generation set aside the routines of their daily lives and went to war.  Some flew airplanes over hostile territory, some fought on dangerous seas, some landed on foreign soil against well defended enemy entrenchments, and some devoted their skills and energy doing at home what was necessary for victory abroad, but all sacrificed for a cause in which they believed.  This is their story.  Much like Studs Terkel's &quot;The Great War: An Oral History of World War II,&quot; Tom Brokaw sets the stage and then steps aside to let the people who lived through these perilous times remember and relate.<br />This is a book which, like a fine gourmet meal, needs to be savored in measured helpings.  The stories of these men and women need to be read a few at a time then set aside for time to contemplate how intimate and compelling each is.  While many are similar, each provides its own unique feeling and impression.  To me, all these folks were true heroes in every sense of the word.<br />A few words come to mind as I think back over the totality of the book.  These are honor, courage, commitment, duty, self-sacrifice, and patriotism.  I think you will like this book.	2000-12-03
US	48388976	R2O96BB1PN5819	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Story of Love and Wisdom	When Mitch Albom, a sports writer for the &quot;Detroit Free Press, accidentally discovered that his college professor and mentor of twenty years ago, Morrie Schwartz, was dying from ALS (commonly known as Lou Gehrig's Disease), he felt compelled to fly to Massachusetts to renew the old relationship.  The first Tuesday meeting led to weekly meetings every Tuesday for the next twelve weeks during which Schwartz once again became the mentor and Albom the pupil.  In simple and effective language, Albom chronicles these meetings which served to fill a need in each man's life.  For the dying Schwartz, the meetings became an oasis of friendship, love, and purpose on which he could focus during his time of terrible suffering.  For Albom the meetings became a prism through which he could see facets of his own life with greater clarity.<br />The story is inspirational rather than maudlin.  It forces readers to reflect on the fact of their own mortality and on the state of their relationships with those who are closest to them. I found it deeply moving.  I recommend the book to you.	2000-12-02
US	48388976	R1CZ0O09WYOGHP	1881659623	750622436	Wine Spectator's Ultimate Guide to Buying Wine (7th Edition)	Books	5	58	65	N	N	An Authoritative Guide	Editor and Publisher Marvin R. Shanken calls this book &quot;an indispensable resource&quot; for wine lovers.  I'd have to say he is right about that.  This book provides everything and then some that most of the wine buying public needs or wants to know about the vintner's tasty product.  Over 40,000 wines are reviewed and there are tasting notes on more than 20,000.<br />One section of the book concentrates on great wines suitable for the wine collector.  It rates the best wines from the present vintages of what the authors consider are the world's most prestigious wine types.  These are identified as Red Bordeaux, Red Burgundy, White Burgundy, Red Rhome, Piedmont Red, Tuscan Red, Vintage Port, and California Cabernet.  Included with the ratings are date references to &quot;Wine Spectator&quot; issues in which the wines were rated.<br />Another interesting feature is a wine buying strategy for stocking wine cellars.  Vintage charts are provided which cover the top 100 best wines released by year from 1988 to 1999.  A detachable and foldable vintage chart is included which may be carried in the purse or wallet for easy reference during those shopping sprees.  Also helpful is a complete winery index at the back of the book.<br />For those folks like me who are not wine aficionados but like to get the best value for their dollars, the editors have included a checklist for wineries and wines of good quality for $12.00 or less.  This is a fairly inclusive list and includes wines from Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, Italy, Spain, and the United States.<br />Full of great information, there is probably too much detail for the casual wine shopper; however, it appears to be a must have for the more discriminating wine buyer.	2000-12-01
US	48388976	R28OVE5NZ5YXFK	0316277010	373145889	The Last Amateurs: Playing for Glory and Honor in Division I College Basketball	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Naismith Would Approve	The basketball playing Patriot League consisting of teams from Army, Navy, Lafayette, Lehigh, Bucknell, Holy Cross, and Colgate has a few features unique to most Division 1 leagues in this era of big time college basketball.  There are no big bucks national TV contracts, Dick Vitale doesn't hyperventilate over the awesome talents of its athletes, the academic standards are high, and the players actually graduate. Yet the competition within the league is intense and the level of play is surprisingly good.  While there are no national champions here, the athletes who play for the love of the competition and the game do get a chance to meet with the &quot;big boys&quot; on occasion.  The winner of the league receives an invitation to the NCAA Tournament (where they are usually ousted in the first round) and big time teams are sprinkled throughout the schedules.  This year, for example, Penn State, Syracuse, Duke, Arizona State, Texas, and Wake Forest show up among the opponents.  John Feinstein takes us on an extended guided tour of the league, its athletes, coaches, and administators and gives us an inside look at college basketball as close to it roots as it gets these days.<br />This is a nicely told tale of the fight to win the league's championship and its only bid to the NCAA Tournament.  Its nice to read about athletes going all out to win even though the arenas may be small and the crowds might sometimes number in the hundreds rather than thousands.  Caution though, Feinstein includes so much detail, so many names, and so many events that the reader may have a tendency to suffer from information overload.  Nevertheless, this is a refreshing look at another aspect of collegiate competition.<br />If you enjoy this book and want to take a look at the other side of the college basketball equation, you might want to look at two other Feinstein books - &quot;A March to Madness&quot; which looks at the Atlantic Coast Conference and &quot;A Season on the Brink&quot; which deals with Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers of the Big Ten.	2000-11-17
US	48388976	R8JKWQR2XTL75	0786865296	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk and the Miraculous Rescue of her Survivors	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An Impressive Story of the Will to Survive	On June 17, 1913, the Canadian Arctic Expedition contingent headed by Vilhajalmur Stefansson on board the ship &quot;Karluk&quot; embarked on its mission to find an unknown continent thought to lie somewhere in the unexplored region between Alaska and the North Pole.  In mid-August the &quot;Karluk&quot; amid increasingly worsening weather conditions became trapped in the Arctic ice floe and drifted helplessly with the winds and currents.  Eventually Stefansson decided to leave the ship and with part of the crew and Eskimo guides work his way toward land.  Under the command of Captain Robert Bartlett, the &quot;Karluk&quot; and her remaining crew continued to drift north and west until becomming hopelessly ice bound near Wangel Island north of Siberia.  Here the ship was destroyed and sunk by the crush of ice leaving Bartlett and his crew stranded in the frozen wilderness.  While the crew struggled for existence at their base camps, Bartlett, the Ice Master, undertook an incredible 700 mile trek through the icy wilderness of Siberia to seek rescue.  Jennifer Niven has used diaries, letters, and interviews with survivors and descendants to construct the remarkable details of the crew's fight to live and Bartlett's amazing journey.<br />The events depicted in this book are all the more remarkable because they are true.  The ability to cope with suffering, the perseverance in the face of overwhelming hardship, the manifestations of human strengths and weaknesses under pressure, and the overpowering will to live shown by Bartlett and his crew are almost beyond belief.<br />The story ebbs and flows with the fate of the men.  Like their unwanted repetitious and monotonous existence, the narration sometimes tends to become somewhat tedous.  However, those who like true stories of exploration, adventure and survival will savor this book.	2000-11-12
US	48388976	R1HYHD1SLRRAAK	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Super Thriller	A ferry filled with passengers sinks under mysterious circumstances leaving those who survive, including detective Kate Beauchamp, with nightmares that haunt their lives.  A vicious serial killer slays and brutally mutilates his victims.  A black adder becomes an enigmatic clue.  A Greek myth plays itself out in real life.  These disparate events converge to bring Kate and her estranged father, marine accident investigator Frank Beauchamp, together on the streets of Glasgow in an attempt to solve an eerie and baffling case.<br />Boris Starling has developed a strong and realistic protagonist in Kate Beauchamp and a bizarre, demented, and cunning murderer in the Black Adder.  The puzzle of how and why the ferry &quot;Amphitrite&quot; was sunk and the frantic hunt for the identity of the Black Adder move along seemingly parallel paths.  The revelation which ties the two together comes as a surprise and a shock.  Both investigations are full of tension, suspense, and strange twists.  This is a whiz bang thriller which will keep you guessing in anticipation right down to the final pages of the book.<br />I missed Starling's first book, &quot;Messiah,&quot; but that book is going near the top of my must read list.  If it has the impact of &quot;Storm,&quot; I'm in for another good read.	2000-11-07
US	48388976	R3KD2WP6VRH1TA	0375420630	848835204	What It Felt Like: Living in the American Century	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Way We Were	Henry Allen has given his readers a whirlwind tour of the 20th Century in a little gem of a book.  For convenience he divides the century into ten year periods even though he recognizes that &quot;ages don't match decades.&quot;  Its amazing how Allen is able to capture the nuances of each time frame in simple easy to read brilliantly effective language.  Using a snippet of conversation here, a quick word picture there, or the mention of a major or minor event of the age somewhere else, he pulls the reader so smoothly into the narrative that one actually gets the impression that he or she has a sense of what it actually felt like to be living in America back then.  Try it for yourself.  Pick out your own personal frame of reference and read through the text.  You'll be surprised and delighted at how many memories can be evoked with so few words.<br />What a masterful book!  This book would be a great gift for your children, your grandchildren, or yourself.  I'm pretty sure my copy will be worn and dog-eared before long.  I imagine I'll buy another copy as a gift for myself.	2000-10-29
US	48388976	R1ROL1JRRBTMBJ	0375410775	600659267	Off Camera: Private Thoughts Made Public	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Koppel Comments	Ted Koppel, host of ABC's &quot;Nightline&quot; television show, presents a personal journal in which he muses on the daily events which took place during 1999.  His comments range from the insightful and controversial to the personal and mundane.  Among other topics, the reader will learn Koppel's thoughts on such things as the state of American journalism -&quot;a sort of competitive screeching;&quot; on the United States Army - more of a buraucracy than an effective fighting force; on a survey of college student's sexual attitudes - shocked that 60% don't consider oral sex as sexual relations; on the weather - irritated that forecasters have to exaggerate by including heat and wind chill indexes.<br />The book is a quick read.  It is an intimate, if somewhat tedious, look at the man millions of Americans think they know through his television persona.  Those looking for a well reasoned analysis of the major events of the closing year of the century will be disappointed.  Those who can take the book for what it is may find it mildly entertaining.	2000-10-27
US	48388976	R24Y159U497CEY	0399145109	552977785	George Anderson's Lessons from the Light: Extraordinary Messages of Comfort and Hope from the Other Side	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Insight from the Light	I ran across George Anderson's television show a couple of times as I was flipping through the channels late at night, and I found his televised sessions fascinating.  This book provides some autobiographical information which helps the uninitiated reader like me better understand how Anderson developed the special gifts attributed to him.  additionally, he includes his understanding, based on his discernments, of the make-up and hierarchy of the &quot;other side.&quot;<br />Most of the book works its way through various scenarios in which death may occur under particularly tragic circumstances such as senseless acts of violence, the loss of a child, and suicide.  In each chapter Anderson addresses the &quot;why&quot; of such actions and their effect on both the departed and those left behind.  Each chapter includes transcripts of actual discernments and comments from Anderson about what can be learned from each.<br />I admit that I bring a healthy dose of skepticism to the premise of the book; however, there is no doubt that the messages conveyed by the discernments bring comfort, hope, and a sense of relief to those who seek Anderson's help.  This is one of those realms which we all must judge for ourselves.  If you find it is an area you would like to explore, this book would be an interesting and intriguing choice.	2000-10-25
US	48388976	R2M3WCK37KT98U	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Magnificent Courage and Sacrifice By the Greatest Generation	On February 19, 1945, over 70,000 United States Marines began hitting the beaches of Iwo Jima a small eight square mile island just 650 miles from the capital city of Japan.  Four horrifying days later six American fighting men worked their way to the top of Mount Suribachi and took part in the flag raising whose image was to become the symbol of valor and heroism for the entire nation.  James Bradley, the son of flag raiser John &quot;Doc&quot; Bradley, pulls together the diverse stories of each of these men and relates the the circumstances which led them to this moment in history and for some the moment of their death.<br />This is a book which will stay in your thoughts a long time after you have finished reading it.  You may think, as I did, about your own sons and thank God that they didn't have to endure the horrors of the combat which Bradley describes in such terrifying detail.  You may reflect with pride on the heroism and self-sacrifice displayed by the boys who survived and those who died on that island.  You may wonder if your generation has what it takes to persevere as that generation did.  You may contemplate the price paid by others for the feedoms you now enjoy. You may cry with the families over the loss of their precious sons. You may rejoice in the love of son for father that permeates this book.  What you won't do is quickly forget this book.<br />This is a magnificent book!  You owe it to yourself to read it soon!	2000-10-18
US	48388976	R298NE96UKUK2K	0803277792	263627848	Good Enough to Dream	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Major League Book About Minor League Baseball	In 1983 Roger Kahn went in search of a minor league baseball team to buy.  After his first choices fell through, he ended up owner and president of the Class A Utica Blue Sox in the New York-Penn League.  Lacking a major league affiliation, he put together a rag tag group of players who had been dropped by various major league club's minor league affiliates or who were never drafted. This book establishes Kahn's life long love of baseball and then follows the Blue Sox from opening day to the final game of the 1983 season.  Many books on baseball have used this inside the clubhouse format.  Jim Bouton's &quot;Ball Four&quot; and Pat Jordan's &quot;A False Spring&quot; come readily to mind.  &quot;Good Enough to Dream&quot; is different from the others in that it is told from the perspective of the front office.<br />The machinations of the front office, the relationships among the players and the manager, the descriptions of the long bus rides, the dreams and hopes of the players, and the hardships that all involved are willing to withstand for the love of the game are all interesting and well told.  The one area which failed to hold my attention was the long narrative of the Blue Sox's run for the league title.  Kahn attempted to heighten the drama with repeated illustrations of why the team felt that the league office was working against their success and he left no doubt about the strong will to succeed that drove everyone in the organization, but in the final analysis I just couldn't seem to care enough about who won the 1983 New York-Penn League championship to do more than skim through the last one hundred or so pages.  That having been stated, this is a very good book about a part of baseball that few fans ever get a chance to see.	2000-10-02
US	48388976	R2E412N7DOZ60N	0028618416	662579111	Save Smart For A Secure Future: The essential guide to achieving your retirement dreams	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Smart Way to Save for Retirement	William Spitz has written a well organized easily understood guidebook on saving for retirement.  Among the topics covered are a run down on the basics of retirement plans, formulas for determining how much you should be saving to meet your retirement goals, a review of investment fundamentals, an interesting look at investment risk, and how to create a portfolio and select appropriate mutual funds.  Each of these topics are discussed in clear and concise language and illustrated with relevant charts and graphs.  The section on risk and and the section on creating an investment portfolio interested me the most.<br />Spitz restates the well documented correlation between investment risk and reward and attempts to put it in proper perspective for those who are in the process of saving for retirement.  Briefly, he cites five factors which must be considered when evaluating investment risk.  They are time, human capital, financial responsibilites, other resources, and emotional makeup.  For each factor he discusses important considerations and provides some guidelines to help in understanding.<br />The section on creating an investment portfolio is interesting and well done.  He introduces the theory of the optimization process an its use in selecting appropriate investment choices.  He presents four recommended portfolios and discusses them based on risk/reward projections.<br />This is a nice guide to saving for retirement.  I have a feeling I will be using it fairly often when I need to refresh my memory on some important basics of saving and investing.	2000-09-24
US	48388976	R2K2HXQJE2T9DB	0812574907	200625004	Captain's Rangers (Texas Rangers S)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Violent Times In Texas	Thirty years after the Texans defeated Santa Anna's Mexican army at the  Battle of San Jacinto, the area in far Southwest Texas betwen the Nueces  river and the Rio Grande was still a virtual battleground between Texans  and Mexicans.  Texans claimed the area by virtue of the treaty ending the  conflict with Mexico, and Mexican settlers claimed the area because the  land had been in their families for generations.  As usual, Kelton brings a  great sense of place and local dialogue to this novel.  The settings and  people around which the action takes place are, in many instances, drawn  directly from the pages of Texas history.<br />Lanham Neal, a Confederate  vetran wounded in his first and last battle against the Yankees, had  finally settled in as &quot;caporal&quot; at the small ranch run by Griffin  Daingerfield and his daughter Zoe. While Lanham, Zoe, and some ranch hands  were away from the ranch house rounding up and branding their cattle,  Mexican guerillas crossed the border, killed Griffin Daingerfield and  others, and burned the ranch buildings to the ground.  Neal found himself  in the middle of the conflict.  He must balance his priorities between his  love and loyalty to Zoe, her insistence on revenge for the death of her  father, and his own conscience.  Eventually Captain L.H. McNelly and his  small company of Texas Rangers enter the scene with orders to bring law and  order to the territory regardless of the price in lives and property and  the action excalates.<br />This novel is part of a series of &quot;Tales of  Texas.&quot;  Anyone reading this book will gain an interesting insight  into this violent time in Texas history.	2000-09-18
US	48388976	RU9LBWIXL6MDX	1886110824	274788388	Nolan Ryan: The Road to Cooperstown	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Scrapbook Autobiography	This short (122pages) book commemorates Nolan Ryan's induction into the  Baseball Hall of Fame by telling the story of his rise to baseball's elite  beginning with his boyhood in Alvin, Texas, and ending with his remarks at  the induction ceremony many years later.<br />This really is similar to a  family scrapbook.  It includes family photographs, interesting stories, and  information you may not have run across before.  Newspaper excerpts and  comments celebrate each of Ryan's seven no hitters and the game in which he  set the all time strike out record.  Also included is a section in which  Ryan's contemporaries comment on their favorite memories of the hall of  famer.  The list of contributors in this section is extensive and includes  such fellow Hall of Fame inductees as Sandy Koufax, Tom Seaver, Frank  Robinson, and Henry Aaron.<br />I found the two best features of the book to  be the great pictures and the question and answer session which covers a  variety of topics.  Among the things the reader will learn are who Ryan's  heroes are, what his greatest thrill was, how he wants to be remembered,  and what advice he has for those who are running the game today.<br />If you  are a general baseball fan looking for an in-depth autobiography of this  great pitcher, you will probably be disappointed.  On the other hand if you  are a collector of Nolan Ryan memorabilia or just a fan of the man himself,  this is a must have book.	2000-09-16
US	48388976	R3T3AFO5N00Q8V	0070125562	464064407	Personal Finance for Busy People	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Quick and Easy Reference for Personal Finance Basics	This is a nicely laid out book which provides basic information on a wide  variety of personal finance topics in an easy to use and understand format.  Among the many topics is information on  how to get more out of your  current income, advice on insurance and annuities, and the benefits and  pitfalls of investing in real estate, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and  treasury issues. <br />A nice feature is the inclusion in every chapter of a  section called &quot;Fast Forward.&quot;  This is in reality a quick  reference summary of major points of the chapter.  Busy people sometimes  don't have time to read the whole thing.<br />Another intersting feature is  the use of easy to recognize icons to call the reader's attention to areas  in which there might be a question or special information.  Sprinkled  throughout are icons of a pensive scientist with &quot;Expert Advice.&quot;   Here there tips on such things as using credit for meeting emergencies,  using 401k's and IRA's to accumulate savings, and where to find yields on  government securities.  Caution signs warn about possible repercussions of  taking a specific course of action.  Important definitions are signaled  with an icon of amuscle man.  Finally, and icon of two musical notes calls  attention to &quot;margin notes&quot; on various items of interest.<br />This  book succeeds very well in its intended purpose.  It serves as a quick  introduction to many important areas of personal finance without bogging  down in complicated theories and charts, gives some very helpful basic  advice, and serves as a handy reference book for further study.	2000-09-15
US	48388976	R1GP1VDMSIKI9W	0762101725	915067234	Great All-American Wooden Toybook (Reader's Digest Woodworking)	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Interesting Projects Without Spending A Mint	I was looking around to find a few projects which I could work on in my  spare time and which didn't require a whole room full of expensive  woodworking tools to complete when I stumbled on this book.  One nice thing  is the nice variety of projects included.  There are detailed plans and  illustrations of 53 wooden toys. Required skill levels range from beginner  (me) to the relatively more experienced woodworker.  Projects range from a  pretty basic pull along train with an engine and four cars to several  variations of cars, airplanes, trucks, constructin vehicles,  paddlewheelers, and a variety of locomotives and rail cars.<br />Each project  comes with pictures of the finished product, step-by-step instructions,  materials lists, and detailed drawings.  The drawings are shown on a grid  in which each square equals 1/2 inch.  This makes it relatively easy to  expand the patterns and transfer them to the wood stock or other material  if you choose to make templates for future use.<br />Most of the projects can  be made from relatively inexpensive 1x4 or 1x6 pine.  That was a real plus  for me.  Have you taken a look at lumber prices lately?  Tools were not a  problem since I had almost all the basic power tools and accessories I  needed to get started.  I bought a couple of hole saws to make the  wheels.<br />Marshall also includes an introductory chapter in which he  discusses wood choice, tool needs, tips on cutting, gluing and clamping,  patterns and templats, and finishing.  Those who are experienced working  with wood will probably find these basic tips unnecessary, but I found them  helpful.<br />All in all, I like what Marshall has included in the book.  Some  of the projects seem a bit repititous, and many may not be sophisticated  enough for experienced woodworkers.  However, if you're looking for a fun,  inexpensive, and satisfying hobby working with wood, you might want to try  this book.	2000-09-13
US	48388976	R1BBU3HTPVCNFR	1570280207	506279550	Diary of a Duffer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Duffer to duffer this is a pretty good book	I'll admit it.  I'm drawn to golf instruction books.  I'm always looking  for an easy way to knock a few strokes off my game.  I tend toward those  books which are well illustrated and have a unique approach to the topic.   This book satisfies both requirements,and believe it or not, it actually  helped my golf game.<br />George Blake did what many of us wish we could do.   He got a PGA teaching professional, Will Frantz, to lead him through the  fundamentals and then play several instructional rounds with him.  We get  to tag along on each step of the way as Blake practices and then plays  under Frantz's guidance.<br />The pictures which accompany the text illustrate  both the good techniques (Will Frantz) and the not so good techniques  (Blake).  Comments from Blake help us understand how to get from the latter  to the former.<br />The most helpful concept in the book is the &quot;crib  sheet&quot; which is presented after each &quot;lesson.&quot;  Blake has  the ability to summarize the salient points of each lesson in an easy to  understand way. I ended up copying many of the tips from the crib sheets  onto 3x5 cards which I carry in my golf bag.  They come in especially handy  on the practice range when I (frequently)slip back into my old habits.   <br />All in all, I recommend this book to fellow duffers like myself.	2000-09-12
