US	48415631	R1A2S5MZYQ8Q1L	0312338031	190813230	London 1945: Life in the Debris of War	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Life among the ruins	London at many times during its history has been the most desirable place to be.  1945 was not one of those times as a war weary population began the year by V2 attacks and then at the end faced 9 more years of rationing, queing and essentially living life down at heels. The author contends that it took 50 years to realize some of the dreams of the post war planners, I would add that it probably took the same amount of time to overcome some of the after effects of the war.<br /><br />Maureen Waller is very able to the task of setting the scene, providing what amounts to a comprehensive depiction of the British capital in the last days of the war.  She does not indulge in the sort of glory mongering, but shows just how miserable life could be for some and how they chose to go on despite these difficulties.<br /><br />Waller's approach is thorough. If you wanted to know how one was reimbursed following V2 bombing, how one bough sugar, or the practices of wartime criminals, this is the book for youThe Britain of the period amounts to a vastly different world in which all activity is governed by the state and to a degree that seems somewhat claustophobic by today's standards.<br /><br />This is a remarkable book, both readable and comprehensive.  Waller is to be commended for her scholarship and attention to detail.	2005-06-17
US	48415631	R24OC9SRLCV11Z	0231130562	36657547	Yoshimasa and the Silver Pavilion: The Creation of the Soul of Japan (Asia Perspectives: History, Society, and Culture)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Design for living...	Donald Keene, who probably has done more to make Japanese literature understandable to Americans now turns his attention to the state of Japan during the days of Yoshimasa, one of the Ashikaga shoguns.  Like other families to rule Japan in the name of the emperor, the founder of the family generally tended to be a fairly dynamic figure, followed by persons of varying competance before sinking into dynastic decadance.<br /><br />This book presents a portrait of one of the least competant persons to ever become shogun, but managed to have a positive influence just the same. Keene argues rather convincingly that Yoshimasa, though a weak ruler, was an influental patron of the arts. It is Yoshimasa's aesthetic which eventually prevailed in the Japanese imagination and that is the lasting contribution of both him and the Silver Pavilion.<br /><br />I thought the book was consistent with the overall general high level of scholarship that characterizes Keene's works in general. However, while I am willing to give this work my highest possible recommendation, I am not sure if I can totally support all of the claims made for Yoshimasa.  My main concern is that even though I am ready to concede that he does have an aesthetic legacy, I am not sure (and for that matter no one ever really can be) that he can claim to have originated all of the artistic innovations (though patronage) that Keene claims. My reason for doubt is that many buildings that date back to Yoshimasa's period were themselves destroyed during the Onin war (a war brought about by Yoshimasa's politic ineptness). Lacking anything really to compare the Silver Pavilion to, makes it difficult to determine just exactly how great an influence this building actually had at the time. The fact that it survives at all probably ensures that it has had and continues to have an impact on other generations. I am just not sure on what influence it might have had at the time that it was built.	2005-05-06
US	48415631	R1EZFFJKY22V1K	0306808722	826165421	Many Masks: A Life Of Frank Lloyd Wright	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	WHAT'S RIGHT WITH WRIGHT...	The Story of Frank Lloyd Wright has been told many times.  Aside from his many biographers he is also the inspiration of a well known book and hilarious (unintentionally, though) movie, The Fountainhead.  Other than Michaelangelo, I do not know of another architecte who has rated such a treatment.<br /><br />Wright's life was heroic and this book is useful in seeing how that came to be.  Gill is suited to the task, he not only knew Wright, but wrote the building column in the New Yorker for many years.<br /><br />This book is a common sense take on Wright's life.  Gill explores many of the myths that Wright constructed around his life and finds that Wright's creative powers were not always expended in the direction of his buildings. Wright was a genius who did not feel the slightest need to conceal this fact from the world. He was also a visionary who took the Eurpean architecture of its day and transformed it into the American vernacular. This feat he conttrasts strongly with Beaux Arts school which merely transplanted these European fads.  Wright was a real original<br /><br />The book is lavishly illustrated since all of Gills writing does not give the same feel for Wright's genious as a hangful of these images provide.  I think that were it possible color photographs might have provided a clearer view.<br /><br />As Gill demonstrates, Wright at times could be a rascal, but he was also a genius even when when all of the artifice of his life is stripped away. This book is a welcomed addition to Wright biographical scholarship.	2004-11-14
US	48415631	R3BKQKOHHMRWK9	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The First Circle of Hell	Since his demise, which I am sure all will agree was too long in coming, there have been a large number of books on Stalin that attempt to address the career of one of the 20th century's leading tyrants.  Some books, notably Adam Ulam's Stalin and Tucker's \\"Stalin as a Revolutionary\\" and \\"Stalin: Breaker of Nations\\" are great biographies. Other books, most notably Robert Conquest's books look at the impact of Stalin on the nation as a whole. With all the material out there, one might wonder if there is a need for another book on \\"Uncle Joe?\\"<br /><br />Simon Sebag Montefiore demonstrates in this book is that yes there is still more ground that previously had been uncovered.  Focusing on interviews with survivors, recently published memoirs, and combing the Russian archives, Montefiore manages to paint a picture of what life with Iosef was really like.  To be sure the basic outline of Stalin's life is unchanged from previous attempts. What Montefiore does do is provide an unprecedented degree of detail on what really went on behind the Kremlin walls.  This is a remarkable achievement not only in what it brings to the understanding of Stalin's life, but also in capturing some of the material from the survivors.  While I did thoroughly enjoy Montefiore's previous book on Potemkin, I am extremely impressed with his efforts here in a totally different area.  He is to be commended for his efforts.	2004-11-02
US	48415631	R2LPNGUB1TYZCX	0393308693	348884353	Stalin in Power: The Revolution from Above, 1928-1941	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A great book on a bad man	Over the years, I have read a number of books on Stalin, some good and some awful and I am convinced that this book, along with Professor Tucker's other work, \\"Stalin as a Revolutionary\\" is the best work on this subject (Adam Ulam's work would be the best one volume study of Stalin).<br /><br />What sets this book apart from the others is Tucker's first rate understanding of Stalin and the world in which he operated. Only someone as stubborn as Stalin could have imagined he was creating paradise on earth while at the same establishing one of the most hellish regime's in world history and Tucker captures him in all of his evil.  Even though he is a widely respected actademic, Tucker writes in such a way as to make this 20th century monster understandable to expert and beginner alike.<br /><br />The only complaint that I have is that Tucker has yet to follow through with the next part of Stalin's career.  It seems to be truism of late that no one can complete a multi-volume work on one of the leaders of World War II.  Kenneth Davis was unsuccessful in his magnificent FDR biography as was William Manchester in his attempt to capture Churchill in his series of books on the great prime minister.  I am only hoping that wealth of material that has become available with the fall of communism and the Soviet Union does not hamper Professor Tucker's efforts.	2004-10-14
US	48415631	R11H0M0504LHKG	0879100362	979736969	Harpo Speaks!	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	And high time too...	It might some people who have not read this book as to how in the world Harpo Marx made his way from the slums of New York to become the darling of literary New York. Surely Groucho could be counted upon to make such a leap. Such is a testamony to the enduring popularity of the movie personnas of the Marx brothers.<br /><br />While not as good a wisecracker, at least on stage, Harpo probably was the nicest of the Marx brothers.  Lacking Groucho's interest in cleaver word play, which should have made him a natural for the Algonquin roundtable, Harpo nevertheless became the darling of not only New York's smart set, but also dabbled in pre-Cold War espionage, serving as an unofficial diplomatic currier following an engagement at the Moscow Art Theatre.<br /><br />Harpo's memoirs are interesting in not only what they discuss, but in what they omit and actually this serves to define Harpo as the nicest of the Marx Brothers. This is not a tell all book and Harpo apparently had only one significant emotional envolvement in his life (his wife) outside that of his immediate family.<br /><br />Turning to the family, the main person here is Minnie, the mother of the Marx Borthers, both the act and the siblings. The way he handles this fireball of energy is particularly interesting, particularly when contrasted with the way she appears in Groucho's numerous memoirs.<br /><br />This  book covers a great deal of ground, anyone interested in the Marxes or the surroundings in which they came of age will find this book an absolute delight.	2004-10-11
US	48415631	R1GPZWNX882WOH	0198217064	974862739	The Earlier Tudors, 1485-1558 (Oxford History of England)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	What really happened after Bosworth Field	The era of English history that continues to fascinate is the period when the Tudors ruled.  This is not surprising when one considers all that happened.  A bankrupt divided nation assumed its place as one of the great powers of Western Europe.  This was not merely the result of luck, as is so often the case in history. Rather as a whole the Tudors were profoundly gifted rulers.<br />The story begins with the under-rated reign of Henry VII.  Unlike most of monarchs, very little is known about him, at least as far as the general public is concerned.  Richard III is the Shakespearean villian who murdered his nephews and usurped the throne.  Henry VIII is unquestionably the most famous kind in English history.  Henry VII tends to lose out when compared with these two fascinating figures.  Professor Mackie redresses the balance since none of the changes that occurred would have been possible without Henry VII's efforts. Henry's progress is charted by Mackie's admirable book. What is really fascinating is the precariousness of his rule at least in the early stages, not the impression one gets from Shakespeare. The story of Perkin Warbeck, an imposter who pretended to be the murdered Duke of York and who managed international support from rulers who saw the usefulness of a divided England.  Aside from this sensational episode, Mackie manages to put Henry's reign into context, charting his efforts to restore the crown to solvency, not a small feat.<br />Henry VIII managed to build on the success of his father and probably exercised the most decisive role in moving England into the modern age.  There are of course the six wives, but the progress of Reformation and the beginnings of the royal navy are charted here. The one shortcoming in this book is that many of its acessments on the Reformation have been superseded since it was published.  I would recommend that the begining reader might want to consult either Duffy's Stripping of the Altars or MacCulloch's The Reformation for and update on the state of the art.<br />Another section which I found rather interesting was the one dealing with Edward VI's reign. Although Edward died while a teenager, here the Church of England acquired many of its features.  The men that surrounded him took the next step toward the establishment of the Church of England. Mackie is at his best going through all the numerous bits of material that make up this story.<br />The book concludes with the reign of Bloody Mary who was not quite as bad as one might gather from Fox's Book of Martyrs.<br />I consider this book, despite some shortcomings that have emerged with time, to be one of the essential books on Tudor history and would urge it on anyone seeking to gain a good overview of this fascinating period.nd update on the state of the art.   Another section which I found rather interesting was the one dealing with Edward VI's reign. Although Edward died while a teenager, here the Church of England acquired many of its features.  The men that surrounded him took the next step toward the establishment of the Church of England. Mackie is at his best going through all the numerous bits of material that make up this story.   The book concludes with the reign of Bloody Mary who was not quite as bad as one might gather from Fox's Book of Martyrs.    I consider this book, despite some shortcomings that have emerged with time, to be one of the essential books on Tudor history and would urge it on anyone seeking to gain a good overview of this fascinating period.	2004-08-08
US	48415631	R3BVRTQJKPJJ04	0878466207	351781303	Japan at the Dawn of the Modern Age: Woodblock Prints from the Meiji Era, 1868-1912	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Pictures of Change	For many years prints from the Meiji period have gotten a bad rap. Collectors have prefered the earlier Edo works that are justly celebrated.  The artistic crimes alleged against the Meiji period artisans include harsher colors and dyes as opposed to the more restrained palate of earlier Ukiyo-e period.  Travelers to Japan in the 19th century were offended by the supposed garishness of these modern works.<br /><br />Luckily, the prints of this period were saved for future generations by collectors of vision who saw the artisitic merit in these examples of the Meiji period.  The works detailed in this book are among the finest examples of the genre. They show a nation in transition.  The forms are very similar to the earlier types of woodblocks, but the subject matter is not. These works celebrate the transition of Japan to a modern nation state. The emperor is shown indulging in a number of modern pursuits (going to the races or the circus).  But the general patriotic tone of these prints is not limited to the emperor. Both the Sino-Japanese and Russo Japanese wars provide a rich source of illustration.  Personally, I find these works more fascinating as they show how the Meiji period artists incorporate old forms in new genres.<br /><br />This book celebrates woodblocks in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston and features a great deal of commentary.  The essays by Donald Keene are up to his usual high standard of scholarly excellence and serve to put the period into context.  However the most interesting is by Frederic Sharf which describes the deliciousness of building a world class collection of Meiji era prints.  It is not just the joy of collecting he describes, but pleasure to be gained from learning the history of a cherished object. Sharf generously donated his collection to the MFA, making this unequalled collection available to the wider public.<br /><br />This book is essential to anyone seeking to collect these marvelous woodblocks (many of the ones pictured in the book can still be acquired and remain within the reach of the ordinary collector).dblocks (many of the ones pictured in the book can still be acquired and remain within the reach of the ordinary collector).	2004-08-04
US	48415631	R2WIXCZDKGE6NZ	023112340X	898390425	Emperor of Japan	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	The best book on the subject	This has to be the best book on the Meiji emperor currently in English. Professor Keene has assembled enough primary and secondary material to form as complete a picture of the Meiji emperor as is likely to exist for a long time. This book is an esential source book for anyone seeking to understand the man or his era.<br />Professor Keene has a fascinating subject to explore in this book. If Augustus can be said to have found Rome to be city of mud huts and left strutures of marble behind, the Meiji emperor was born into a backward feudal nation and left when it had become a world power. Unlike Augustus, he cannot claim all of the credit for this achievement.  There were many talented and visionary politicians who came to power during the period.  However, the environment to foster the rise of Japan as a world power was certainly fostered by the emperor's departure from the traditional role of the Japanese emperor, a position which under the preceeding Shogunate period could be said to resemble that of a national high priest.<br />What is fascinating about this book is how Japan became a modern country. Persons who look at things like how modernity and change affects rising nation states will certainly find this book fascinating. At anyone of several periods throughout this period, Japan could have found efforts to modernize halted and it returning to the status of a rather unimportant Asian power.<br />Even though I thoroughly enjoyed this book, I will suggest that this is not really the best book to begin a study of Japanese history. Somethings are not fully explained and the significance of certain individuals not perfectly introduced. I would suggest reading a survey history of Japan before reading this one. However despite this shortcoming, Professor Keene has composed the definative text.	2004-07-13
US	48415631	R3NF3ZFBETZTG1	0195033817	213986428	James Joyce (Oxford Lives S)	Books	5	11	16	N	Y	Portrait of the artist as a young and old man	Twenty two years ago I was enrolled in Richard Ellman's class on James Joyce at Emory University and when I was introduced to him by the head of the English Department I was informed that Ellman was the best informed authority on Joyce since 1941 when that person was of course Joyce himself.<br />This expertise is demonstrated in this, the definative work on Joyce and his work.  In it Joyce not only recounts the particulars of his life (he also edited collections of Joyce's letters so he was more than familiar with the twists and turns of that extraordinarily disorderly life).  Professor Ellman was also an authority on the Irish literary scene, producing studies on Yeats, Becket (with whom he regularly exchanged letters) and Wilde.  To master not only the works of Joyce is a feat in an of itself, but to master the works of all of the leading Irish modernists probably is a unique accomplishment unknown in scholarship.<br />It is perhaps a facile observation to note the numerous biographical details with which Joyce invested his life.  The date of 16 June 1904, known as &quot;Bloomsday&quot; was the day when Joyce first &quot;stepped out&quot; with his companion/wife Nora.  It does provide a great deal of insight into what Joyce chose to put into the books and what he chose to discard.  This book provides unprecedented insight (except perhaps Leon Edel's books on Henry James) into the creative process.<br />What is sad about this book is the difficulty one can have in locating a copy.  I was fortunate in finding it readily available when I spent six weeks studying all of Joyce's works with Professor Ellman.  It is unfortunately difficult to locate now.  There are other books on Joyce that are out there, but few have been accepted as universally as this one.<br />If you want to know all the twists and turns of the mind that gave the world Dubliners, Portrait of the Artist and Ulysses, there is no better work than this one.	2004-06-21
US	48415631	R37YW22LWIU1NE	0679426272	572458369	American Visions: The Epic History of Art in America	Books	5	31	36	N	N	New World Symphony	I have been a fan of Robert Hughes since I fist saw the television show \\"Ths Shock of the New\\" and also his criticism in Time Magazine. In this book, he takes as his subject the epic of the American artisitc experience. In lesser hands this could be a dull topic, but thanks to Hughes's enthusiasm and interesting takes on American life, this subject becomes quite fascinating indeed.<br />Hughes begins at the beginning and starts off with a discussion of Spanish colonial art of the old west before moving onto the East coast and the founding fathers of American Art (West Copley, Peale and Stuart).  When discussing the paintings Hughes ties it in with the politics of the various periods, the literature and even the music, establishing that art does not exist in a vacuum.<br />I have seem many of the works discussed in this work and found Hughes's insights inspiring in some instances sending off to look up material on them.  The strongest sections deal with aside from the early American artists, Cole's The Way of Empire series, the Eakins, Steiglitz, and Masden Hartley.<br />Although I rate this book with five stars, I did have one or two problems.  I would have thought that he might have examined Sargent's technique more thoroughly.  I have always noticed that he seems to have a problem drawing hands.<br />The most profound disagreement that I have with Hughes is over theRegionalist movement of the 1930s.  I am afraid I do not share his view of Benton.  Rather than put him in the context of socialist realism and nazi art, I would have thought a more natural point of departure would be the discovery (some might say invention) of an early American aesthetic.  Benton, Grant Wood and John Curry were more part of this trend than any of the international movement of totalitarian art.<br />I also disagreed with the section on the abstract expressionists who Hughes likes and I do not, finding them sterile and self-indulgent.<br />The book concludes with a survey of the art work of the 1980s and 1990s.  This is more about commerce and perception and is illustrated by a story of the purchase of Van Gough's Irises.  Whether one agress or disagrees with Hughes's judgements, oneis sure to find this survey of American art history stimulating and thought provoking.rt work of the 1980s and 1990s.  This is more about commerce and perception and is illustrated by a story of the purchase of Van Gough's Irises.  Whether one agress or disagrees with Hughes's judgements, oneis sure to find this survey of American art history stimulating and thought provoking.	2004-03-23
US	48415631	R1VJFK68WXKTUB	0802137032	67233016	Prince of Pleasure: The Prince of Wales and the Making of the Regency	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Why monarchy became an unpopular institution...	This is a good book about a bad man. While George IV is believed to have been a style setter and taste-maker, his life was so motivated by self-indulgance and egotism that even a biographer as talented as Mr. David cannot hope but to fail in his hopeless attempt to make the subject of this books attractive.<br />George IV was the son of America's last king, George III.  In his life there were hosts of empty headed women of easy virtue, massive tasteless building projects, flitations with radical politics, and more excess than the average Hollywood star of the moment. By his example, George IV makes Jim Morrison look like a choir boy.  And what a bore he must of been as well!<br />Mr. David attempts to make the prince likable, but one is compelled upon a dispassionate read of the facts to conclude with Thackery that he was little more than a cad with a crown.  This is the opposite conclusion to which Mr. David attempts, and hats off to him for his efforts on behalf of this poor dead king's reputation. It is kind of difficult to feel any sympathy for a man who treated his wife so poorly, drank himself to excess, spent money fecklessly and in the end believed himself (rather pathetically) the victor of the battle of Waterloo.	2004-03-17
US	48415631	RWC8ZQABG5ITK	0316916056	572624819	Put Out More Flags	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	Nothing Phoney about this 'Waugh'"	This is one the great comic novels of the history of the world. I would expect it would not be quite the work to start out with, but for people aware of what Britain was like during the first days of WWII, this is pure pleasure.<br />The book, like most of Waugh's satires, contains a number of secondary characters who are often quite amusing. In this Waugh is the equal of Dickens (a comparison Waugh might not have appreciated), in his celebration of the English eccentric. From a technical execution the novel is rather interesting in that its main character, its anti-hero, Basil Seal, is somewhat of a character himself.<br />Basil Seal originally appeared in the work \\"Black Mischief\\" is a trickster, eternally on the lookout for a way of earning a dishonest living. Basil's life is complicated by the outbreak of war and the insistance by the women in his life to play a hero's part in it (preferably dying while do so, in the case of his mother).<br />Possessed of considerable guile he hotfoots it off to the country where he runs a profitable extortion racket involving three very undesirable war refugee children.  These obnoxious brats manage to destroy most of the stately cottages of, if not the upper classes, then the upper middle classes.<br />Another central character in the book is Ambrose Silk.  Silk wishes the war would go away and at the same time wonders what his role should be. Eventually he settles on publishing an arts magazine, whose most notable work celebrates his love for a German soldier is twisted into Nazi propaganda by Basil working as a counterespionage agent.<br />Though filled with topical humor, \\"Put out More Flags\\" manages to transcend the time in which it was written. It contains a number of thinly disguised portraits of famous people. If anyone is curious as to the various identities, I would recommend Humphrey Carpenter's excellent work, \\"The Brideshead Generation.\\"<br />The work is also interesting for fans of Waugh as<br />well. It is the second to last of his \\"funny\\" books.  The next books would take on a more serious tone.  Waugh's next book would be Brideshead Revisited. With the exception of \\"The Loved One\\" Waugh's later works would take on a seriousness which ultimately would set him apart from his contemporaries.  I also recently read \\"The Sword of Honour\\" Trilogy and it is interesting to compare this work with \\"Put out More Flags.\\"  The themes are similar, but the approach is markedly different.  This book shows Waugh as a writer who had already conquered many worlds, but at the same time was preparing to take on new challenges.he second to last of his \\"funny\\" books.  The next books would take on a more serious tone.  Waugh's next book would be Brideshead Revisited. With the exception of \\"The Loved One\\" Waugh's later works would take on a seriousness which ultimately would set him apart from his contemporaries.  I also recently read \\"The Sword of Honour\\" Trilogy and it is interesting to compare this work with \\"Put out More Flags.\\"  The themes are similar, but the approach is markedly different.  This book shows Waugh as a writer who had already conquered many worlds, but at the same time was preparing to take on new challenges.	2004-02-24
US	48415631	RSEC4V8II493R	0679431365	884025244	The Sword of Honour Trilogy (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	71	75	N	Y	Worthy of the Victoria Cross	When these books came out a number of reviewers thought that Waugh had lost his touch.  Perhaps the atmosphere of the swinging sixties did not lend to itself a real understanding of the greatness of this work. In my opinion this work represents one of Waugh's major works.  While it does not cover every aspect of World War Two (Proust did not feel the need to fight out every battle of World War One either), it does provide a kind of summing up of the state of Britain and what happened to former ruling class, a body that provoked feelings of great affinity from Waugh, even though he was a product of the upper middle class.<br /><br />The key to understanding Waugh, not just this book, but also all of the others is his distrust of the 20th century.  He came of age during the 1920s and biographers have noted an early fascination with the pre-Raphaelites.  Although this artistic brotherhood focused on life in the pre-industrial age Waugh the satirist brought his powers to bear on the post World War I modern world its mores and hypocrasies.  World War Two brought high taxes and democracy to this admired world of the British gentry and Waugh correctly chronicles this in his summary of the war in the trilogy.<br />The book is also a wonderful social satire drawing portraits of many of Waugh's own circle including Diana Mosley (With the fascist sympathies air brushed out here) Cyril Connolly and others.  He marks the fall of the aristocratic officer and the rise of the \\"Trimmers\\" of the world whose heroism is more a result of luck and press puffing than genuine achievement.<br />The turning point in the book is the Crete campaign.  Here British high born leadership collapses finally.  Waugh sees this military failure coupled with the subsequent alliance with Bolshevik Russia to be one of the failures of the war.  The so-called \\"Stalingrad sword\\" which appears as a character in its own right is symbollic of the passing away of the former way of life.  It is not surprising that Waugh kills off the saintly Mr. Couchback (the hero's father) at this point in the book to provide a last hurrah for the old Catholic landed gentry.<br /><br />The book is replete with a full gallary of comic characters.  My favorite Apthorpe is unfortunately killed off in the first novel.  To detail the reasons would be to deprive future of readers of the genuine pleasure in encountering him in the novels. However despite this absence in the two subsequent volumes, there are plenty to keep one amused.  My second favorite of Virginia Troy, who is the ex-wife of our hero, Guy Crouchback.  It is entertaining to watch this very worldly woman make her way through war-time Britain.  There is Ludovic, the aspirant writer, enlisted man and probably the personification of the future post-war world with his trite novel \\"The Death Wish.\\"  Finally there is Trimmer, a former barber who becomes a hero because Britain needed one who was working class (at least in the opinion of HO HQ).<br /><br />This is a major work by Waugh and probably his best book after \\"A Handful of Dust.\\"  In many ways it is superior to the earlier masterpiece in that provides Waugh with a wider canvas to express himself. This is a must for all readers of Waugh.s off the saintly Mr. Couchback (the hero's father) at this point in the book to provide a last hurrah for the old Catholic landed gentry.      The book is replete with a full gallary of comic characters.  My favorite Apthorpe is unfortunately killed off in the first novel.  To detail the reasons would be to deprive future of readers of the genuine pleasure in encountering him in the novels. However despite this absence in the two subsequent volumes, there are plenty to keep one amused.  My second favorite of Virginia Troy, who is the ex-wife of our hero, Guy Crouchback.  It is entertaining to watch this very worldly woman make her way through war-time Britain.  There is Ludovic, the aspirant writer, enlisted man and probably the personification of the future post-war world with his trite novel \\"The Death Wish.\\"  Finally there is Trimmer, a former barber who becomes a hero because Britain needed one who was working class (at least in the opinion of HO HQ).      This is a major work by Waugh and probably his best book after \\"A Handful of Dust.\\"  In many ways it is superior to the earlier masterpiece in that provides Waugh with a wider canvas to express himself. This is a must for all readers of Waugh.	2004-02-02
US	48415631	RMOPUAY2PDBZT	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Heroism in Politics	Is there any more fascinating figure than Winston Churchill? I have found him interesting since I read a children's book on him back in 1972 and continue to find him interesting to this very day.  There are many books to come out on Churchill. The definative work was begun by Randolph Churchill and continued after his death by Martin Gilbert. This runs several volumes and includes lengthy extracts from Churchill's papers.  There is also a one volume abrigement which Gilbert has written.  Others have taken up the task of writing the life of the most significant British statesman of the 20th century and these are as a whole a mixed bag.  However, despite the vast number of books Roy Jenkins book stands apart from many others.<br />The main reason is that Jenkins is a former British politician.  When he writes about Parliament, he does so with authority as he has walked the same halls as Churchill and has held many of the same positions.  Although he was Labor and Churchill Conservative/Liberal/Conservative, Jenkins is able to lay aside party rancor and write a kind of \\"Churchill without tears.\\"  Jenkins saw himself as a moderate member of the Labor Party and left it in the early 80s in reaction to the extremely radical views of the Michael Foot era.<br />The essential truths about Churchill as Jenkins sees them are personality driven. For although Churchill was a great man, many of the elements that served him well during the second World War, his tenacity, eloquence, and belief in his destiny did not always suit all environments. Traits that were useful standing up against Hitler were not as useful in planning the Dardanelles campaign.  There is an object lesson here which Jenkins devotes some attention to.<br />Other than his book on Churchill, Jenkins has also written books on Asquith (PM during part of the First World War) and Gladstone (Prime Minister during Churchill's father's time).  It probably is good that he wrote these works first as they prepared him to produce what amounts to a masterpiece of Churchillian scholarship.roduce what amounts to a masterpiece of Churchillian scholarship.	2003-12-20
US	48415631	RWXUPPAZUI57O	0375724818	696295159	The Golden Age: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An Infuriating, but entertaining book	I must confess I enjoyed this book.  It has some marvelous moments about the dearly departed. Aside from Franklin and Eleanor (who at one point refers to her husband as a &quot;fat ass&quot;) there is William Randolph Hearst and a whole hoard of Hollywood types.  The Sanfords Kate and Blaise are back with their families and hangers on as well. This is a much better book than Washington DC which was meant to be the conclusion of Vidal's series.  I would have thought that Vidal might have &quot;pulled a Henry James&quot; and revised Washington DC so that it is the kind of book that it might have been had not so many of the people mentioned in it required &quot;the names to have been changed to protect the guilty.&quot;<br />While there is a great deal of good in this book, I found conspiracy theories tiresome.  The evils of Harry Truman (who also gets a walk on here) are aired (he is the &quot;mad haberdasser&quot; There is also FDR's ability, all by himself to spin a web so that the &quot;hapless&quot; (not the term I would expect most veterans of WWII would describe them) Japanese will blunder into war with the US and thereby enable us to have rich spoils in Asia.  I think ultimately these rants, while sometimes entertaining will do Vidal's reputation little good.	2003-11-19
US	48415631	R39T3YBVOWE05X	0300101716	143729112	Inventing A Nation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson	Books	2	81	110	N	N	Well written, but not worth it	I have been thoroughly disappointed with everything that Gore Vidal has published since &quot;The Golden Age&quot; (and that was not him at his best). I have enjoyed his novels, chiefly &quot;Julian,&quot; &quot;Creation,&quot; &quot;Burr,&quot; &quot;Lincoln,&quot; &quot;1876,&quot; and even &quot;Empire&quot; and Hollywood.&quot; I still recommend these books because of their wit, their invention, and their iconoclasm.  I would also recommend his large collection of essays.<br />However, when it comes to this book praise is difficult. First of all, although it does cover much the same ground as &quot;Burr,&quot; but a great deal of this work is spent dispensing gossip half truths and obscure quotations which really do not seem to amount to much other than iconoclasm for iconoclasm's sake.  It seems that the only people who come off reasonably well in this book are Adams and Franklin (which is odd since they represented different views on life and future of America).<br />The other &quot;founding fathers&quot; are disparaged through and through. While I believe there is a place for these sorts of evaluations, I do believe that Vidal goes too far at times. The characterization of Hamilton as a &quot;British agent&quot; which he expresses in a somewhat peculiar fashion really is too much. Personally I dislike Hamilton, believing him to have been a positive menace after he left government service at the age of 40.  However, I do not know of a reputatable historian who would support this claim by Vidal.<br />The reason that Franklin comes off so well is that Vidal has found a rather picquant and pessimistic quotation from &quot;the sage of Philadelphia&quot; expressing fear of the degeneration of the  American republic.  This obscure quotation is raked over throughout the book. For this service Franklin is praised, though I am not sure he would welcome it.<br />One gets the impression that there is a part of Gore Vidal who seems to believe that the US invented political corruption and this has been with us from the beginning. While the second part is true, this is a phenomenon which the US can not claim exclusive ownership.  I think the failings that he delights in are failings that exist in politics and politicians regardless of the age and that one might have to grade these people on the curve or be left with no one worth considering &quot;praise worthy&quot; other than failures and nonentities for the simple reason that they never had the opportunity to be corrupt since they never held office or did anything important to begin with.<br />His main concern is a continuing sense of outrage over the election of 2000 and the &quot;Bush Junta.&quot; I think that this has colored his ability to address issues related to the founding fathers in the book and it has has resulted in a greatly inferior product.<br />To be sure, the writing, the wit is still there, but there is also an annoying audacity much to the discredit of the book and its author.political corruption and this has been with us from the beginning. While the second part is true, this is a phenomenon which the US can not claim exclusive ownership.  I think the failings that he delights in are failings that exist in politics and politicians regardless of the age and that one might have to grade these people on the curve or be left with no one worth considering &quot;praise worthy&quot; other than failures and nonentities for the simple reason that they never had the opportunity to be corrupt since they never held office or did anything important to begin with. <br />His main concern is a continuing sense of outrage over the election of 2000 and the &quot;Bush Junta.&quot; I think that this has colored his ability to address issues related to the founding fathers in the book and it has has resulted in a greatly inferior product.  <br />To be sure, the writing, the wit is still there, but there is also an annoying audacity much to the discredit of the book and its author.	2003-11-19
US	48415631	RVSM9UZ01YD54	0226744140	514139571	Frank Lloyd Wright: A Biography	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Prairie interests	This is an excellent book by Meryle Secrest on Frank Lloyd Wright.  It traces the career of America's foremost builder from his days in Chicago as a resident in fashionable Oak Park to his final days on the Arizona desert.  Ms. Secrest does not specialize in architecture, but this appears to be an asset. While there are plenty of books that can go on (and on and on) about building techniques, this is intended for the lay person who is interested in Frank Lloyd Wright in general terms.  This book provides an excellent introduction to both the man and his work.	2003-11-07
US	48415631	R3J29UOEGN2B9Y	0679724753	877262582	Out of Africa: and Shadows on the Grass	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Out of this world	Isak Dinesen is one of my favorite authors and one of the books contained in this volume, &quot;Shadows on the Grass&quot; is my favorite book of hers.  I must confess that I think as a fully realized piece of literature, &quot;Out of Africa&quot; (making this collection of the two a real bargain) and for trademark decadent splender, &quot;Seven Gothic Tales&quot; is better, but I like this one for one story and one in particular which seems to merge both elements. This is &quot;A Letter from A King&quot; in which Dinesen recalls a lion hunt which she and Denys went on. Upon shooting a rather large lion she had it skinned and sent to the king. His majesty Christian X sent her a warm letter of thanks which she in turn used as a king of magic totem with the natives who worked on her coffee farm.  The story contains far more elements than just that. I also must confess that when I first encountered this work of literature it was in the course of watching a film at the Karen Blixen house in Denmark where I watched as the author told to the story during the course of the film.  The other stories in this book are excellent as well. I recommend this book as well as all of the other books that Isak Dinesen wrote, they are all wonderful.	2003-11-04
US	48415631	R8R8IM7DD5P6E	0553524941	741785657	Barnaby Rudge: BBC (Bbc Radio Presents)	Books	2	6	14	N	Y	What a mess	This recording is perhaps one of the worst I have ever encountered. I admit to having only listened to it for few minutes before giving up, but what a mess of an effort. I am sure that when this was originally broadcast there must have been a narrator. Here it is merely a series of voices and it makes things very difficult indeed. There are also some rather rural accents featured on this recording, making it extremely difficult for an American to follow. This is a well-intended, but ultimately a mess of an attempt to render one of the novels of Dickens into drama. The whole thing seems like someone brought a tape recorder down to the pub on a Friday night and hoped for magic to take place.	2003-11-03
US	48415631	R4KI438FIMFHM	0399151648	583255343	Kate Remembered	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great memories	Although the life of Katherine Hepburn has been chronicled elsewhere this is a charming book.  It was written by one of close friends in the Autumn of her life and by someone who has produced great biographies of Maxwell Perkins, Goldwyn and Lindburgh.<br /><br />This book does not reveal anything really new about Hepburn.  Most of this ground has been covered in numerous other biographies and in her Memoir.  However, what Berg has done, because he interacted with her so frequnetly at times, is to give a real sense of what her personality was like.  There is also a very funny story about what happened the night that Michael Jackson came to dinner.  I think this is a wonderful addition to the books that Berg has already produced and look forward to reading his next effort, reportedly a life of Woodrow Wilson.	2003-10-30
US	48415631	RIXC8MX0AUKH6	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Doings in Denmark	Setting a historical novel at the time of King Christian IV offers many ambiguities. For one not only is the fate of the main characters in suspense, but also are the real ones. The paucity of literture on the king and his consort adds to the suspense of the story.<br />This book is imbued with a strong sense of fantasy and what could be termed a form of magic realism.  At times one feels as though one has entered a private world, much like the one that one of the characters a five year old named Marcus periodically inhabits.<br />But perhaps the most perfectly realized character in the book is not King Christian, his mother Sofia (who finds new ways of hoarding gold as Denmark heads towards bankruptcy), Peter Claire the lutinist, or even Emila, but the kings consort, Kirstin.  Kirstin is the uncrowned queen of Denmark and quite the sensualist.  No cruelty seems beyond her and the \\"selections from her private papers\\" are some of the best parts of the book.  She is a creature of pure selfish instincts however she might argue against this view.  Rose Tremain says in an interview published at the end of the book that she enjoyed writing these sections most of all.  The reading of these sections are just as enjoyable.<br />Tremain also has a good sense of creating a fantastic world filled with many stimulating details.  Her gift for prose makes even a blank piece of paper appear sexy, quite a feat for even the most polished prose stylist.<br />This is a remarkable book and the author well-deserves all the praise that she has received for this work.	2003-10-28
US	48415631	R2ZCPQ36K4POZY	0375503277	669884232	The Great Wave: Gilded Age Misfits, Japanese Eccentrics, and the Opening of Old Japan	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Swept away	This is an excellent book on what Japan meant for the people who visited in the early days of the Meiji period.  The author concentrates on a series of vignettes to explore the significance of Japanese culture in the lives of some of the leading US citizens of the period.  It was not all just collections of fans and diets of raw fish. Some of these early travlers used a trip to Japan to acquire ancient artifacts (many of which are in Boston's Museum of Fine Arts), Henry Adams went on quest for nirvana, the artist John La Farge went with him and absorbed new artistic techniques that marked his subsequent work. The cast of characters also includes Isabelle Stewart Gardner and Theodore Roosevelt.<br />This is a very interesting book, sure to delight the reader who really wants to know what happens when west meets east.	2003-10-28
US	48415631	RN0TDWIN60UU3	0393049744	642660655	The Victorians	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Tour de force	This is a remarkable survey of the Victorian age.  It covers all aspects of society and how things changed, both intellectually, artistically and materially.<br />The books begins with Victoria's crowning and ends with her death.  In between these two landmarks, the reader is treated to a cast of thousands which include Melbourne, Gladstone, Disraeli, Dickens, George Eliot, imperialism, Prince Albert, the Crystal Palace, Florence Nightingale, William Steed, Oscar Wilde, Christian Socialism, organized labor, the poor laws and William Morris.<br />Wilson is ever in command of his facts and materials and this book is probably one of the best researched single volumes on the period in some time. Wilson does more than present old wine in new bottles, but provides a 21st century perspective on the evolution of 19th century Britain.	2003-10-28
US	48415631	RAODNSO0W93D5	0805069399	603366254	John Quincy Adams (The American Presidents Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Disappointing in places but still good	I was rather disappointed by this book.  While it is factually correct in most places (I address the factual errors below), I do not agree with some of the characterizations. These are somewhat disappointing as Professor Remini has generally adhered to a high standard of scholarship in his previous works.<br />My main problem is what I believe to be sources that Professor Remini has used to write this book.  These sources tend to be critial of the homelife of John Quincy Adams and fault the nagging and hectoring letters written by his mother Abigal as being one reason for his failure to develop fully as a emotionally well put together human being.  The problem that I have with this line of thought is that no one in the 18th century aspired to that emotional state, certainly not in New England and not to the offspring of Puritan scions (both John and Abigal Adams fit this description).  Had anyone suggested that a severe approach with one's offspring might not be the best approach, he or she would have been laughed at and taken for mad.  No, it was a bit too early to hold parents responsible for not having read Dr. Spock.<br />The fault with this ahistorical approach is in the source material, particularly the Nagal biography of John Quincy Adams.  The goal of this book is to prove that the Adams family was particularly disfunctional because no one got enough love in childhood. This is kind of like taking John Adams to task for not taking an aircraft to Philadelphia.  Such concepts of family did not exist in the 18th century and it is a mistake to try and impose our standards on the unwilling 18th century.  Despite this harsh homelife Adams seemed to have had a good relationship with his parents and archivists are unlikely to discover a Mommie Dearest manuscript by the the sixth president of the United States.<br />There is another bit of information that also is incorrect. Professor Remini has Adams reading the English Historian Macauley as a youth. While I am sure that someone of Adams education would have no trouble reading his essays as a very young person, Macauley was not born until 1800, he wrote no essays until the 1820s when Adams would have been in his 50s.<br />As far as the public life of Adams, Remini is generally on target. Adams, while a successful diplomat, our most successful Secretary of State and an effective congressman, he was a political pigmy and disaster as a president.  Here he draws on the definitive Bemis biography for this views.re that someone of Adams education would have no trouble reading his essays as a very young person, Macauley was not born until 1800, he wrote no essays until the 1820s when Adams would have been in his 50s. <br />As far as the public life of Adams, Remini is generally on target. Adams, while a successful diplomat, our most successful Secretary of State and an effective congressman, he was a political pigmy and disaster as a president.  Here he draws on the definitive Bemis biography for this views.	2003-08-05
US	48415631	R1157IZGOK83L7	1558595457	964784880	The Beggarstaff Posters: The Work of James Pryde and William Nicholson	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Getting started...	This books deals with the revolutionary aspect of the career of Sir William Nicholson, the period in which he and his brother-in-law Jonathan Pryde produced work under the name &quot;the Beggarstaff Brotherhood.  The book is excellent and was able to find examples of the commercial work these two remarkable men produced is gratifying.  The use of line and color was probably nothing short of a revelation, considering just how overblown most contemporary work was.  The only flaw to this otherwise excellent book is the lack of examples of this sort thing, the better to illustrate just how revolutionary the Beggarstaff Brothers actually were. Still this is a marvelous study of two innovative and influental artists.	2003-07-25
US	48415631	R352FYNYPJT338	1900357003	427298898	William Nicholson, Painter	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Nicholson on Nicholson	Sir William Nicholson has been neglected probably more than he should have.  As one of the most innovative graphic designers of the turn of the 20th century (along with his brother in law Jonathon Pryde), he rates more study than he has thus far achieved.  A biography which manages to successfully focus on the particulars of his life and probably is in long overdue. Nicholson did have the sort of life that would interest a biographer, innovative and controversial artist (based on ground breaking depiction of Queen Victoria), father-in-law to Robert Graves, and painting instructor to Winston Churchill. Perhaps someone will discover Nicholson and produce the blockbuster life study that he deserves.<br />For the time being, this beautiful book addresses half of this equation in that it covers the work in comprehensive fashion.  Lavishly illustrated one comes away with a sense of what made Nicholson a great artist and in a variety of mediums.<br />I must confess that my favorite works by Nicholson have been the early lithographs and advertising posters.  The lithographs are still available to collectors (though generally not sold in sets as Nicholson intended) while outstanding examples of the posters were reproduced in the Maitres de l'enfich&quot; series which are likewise highly collectable.  This book provides ample representation of Nicholson's restained use of color and line to produce an end product that I think is incredibly amazing.<br />The only criticism that I have is regarding the section on paintings. I have viewed some of the originals in the Tate Gallery in London and in some cases the colors do not completely match the originals (which have far more depth).  Other than this minor flaw I believe this to be one of the finest books on Nicholson and the best study of his work as a whole.	2003-07-25
US	48415631	R208I60R8I1BOY	0313226369	63596086	John Quincy Adams and the Foundations of American Foreign Policy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of our best statesmen	It is ironic that the thing that reflected poorest on John Quincy Adams, his tenure as president, is what he is today remembered for.  In fact, his most outstanding achievements were in the field of foreign affairs and civil liberties.  Professor Bemis's book addresses the first of these (the second is handled in vol. 2).<br />Because of his father's career as a diplomat during the American Revolution, John Adams probably had the best education in foreign affairs of any statesmen in early America.  While charges of nepotism haunted Adams, it was money well-spent in terms of results.  Adams was posted to Prussia, Russian and Great Britain during the Napoleonic War.  He managed to secure a peace treaty with Britain which was threatening to send over the Duke of Wellington to resolve the war of 1812. <br />As Secretary of State, Adams established the principles that later became enshrined as the Monroe Doxtrine.  His vision of Western Hemispheric solidarity was designed to allow the new American Republic to stand up to the more powerful nations of Europe.  Adams did much to establish anti-colonialism as the hallmark of American Foreign Policy up to the Second World War. <br />The job of Secretary of State was seen as the springboard to the presidency in the \\"Era of Good Feelings.\\"  Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe had held this office.  The rise of Adams was overshadowed by that of Andrew Jackson.  However, given the nature of politics at the time neither he nor Adams were able to achieve a clear victory in electoral college.  The inconclusive results of the election of 1824 led to the ultimate decision resting with the House of Representatives. When the fourth runner up and Speaker of the House, Henry Clay was in a position to decide the outcome.<br />The result was the famous \\"corrupt bargin\\" in which Adams came in as president and Clay was appointed to be secretary of state.  The hint of \\"political hanky panky\\" undermined the presidency of John Quincy Adams. There were a number of good ideas proposed, a national university, a system of observatories, internal improvements featuring a national network of canals and roads that would have opened up the west and promoted greater regional ties and interdependence.  Unfortunately these good ideas were ineffective against the charisma of Jackson and the political machinations of Van Buren, the first national political boss. The presidency of John Quincy Adams was ineffective against well-organized congressional opposition.<br />Beemis is excellent on all points. He correctly assesses the highlights of his career. This is intended to be a scholarly biography, not a popular representation.  The level of detail and the flow of the narrative may drag at times, but this book is well worth the effort.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R7EXHSHFUDJAS	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Founding Father	For many years Adams was overshadowed by many of the other \\"founding fathers.\\"  This book by David McCullough attempts to redress this balance.<br /><br />Though not the great writer that Thonas Jefferson was, nor the awe-inspiring figure of Washington, Adams's contribution was more broad and in someways more effective.  Without the contribution of John Adams, the passage of the Declaration of Independence might never have happened.  While Jefferson was able to distill the essence of the Enlightenment in that remarkable document, Adams was the one who persuaded congress to vote for it.  It was the support of Adams the ensured Washington's appointment as commander in chief of the contenental army. Both of these gentlemen owe their later glory to Adams's behind the scenes operations.<br /><br />In a sense this sort of thing was what Adams excelled.  Washington may have led troops in battle (with mixed results) and Benjamin Franklin may have charmed the French, but Adams secured loans from Dutch Bankers that made the American Republic a reality.<br /><br />McCullough's efforts to restore Adams to prominence take all this into account.  He clearly admires Adams as person and for his accomplishments.  Perhaps his finest hour was when president and managed in defiance of his own party (particularly a dangerously unstable Hamilton), by a mixture of carrots and sticks to keep the peace.  While military glory might be the sort of thing to inspire blockbuster history paintings and burnish the reputation with everlasting glory, but Adams knew that America could not win this war and there was scant reason to risk the work of a lifetime (the establishment of the American republic)for war with France. Hamilton seemed to be urging war mainly out of a sense of pique. He would have been at home on many of the TV chat shows today. Hamilton's actions during this period probably are the strongest arguement for euthanising retired politicians, or least urging them to take up a hobby.  When Adams left public life he read the classics and did as Voltaire urged, he tended his garden.  In this as in many other stages of his life, Adams set a good example.<br /><br />Adams may have been at his best operating behind the scenes, he was at his worst when leader of the Federalist Party.  While MCCullough lauds the insistance of putting principle over party, this did diminish Adams effectiveness as chief executive. He was better at selecting effective subordinates, John Marshall for instance than he was running a political party.  If he had sacked George Washington's cabinet (which was filled with Hamilton's cats paws) and selected his own, one wonders how things might have been different.<br /><br />This book is one of the best on Adams ever written.  Although it is not without its flaws.  I think McCullough might have been a bit more harsh on Adams over the Alien and Sedition acts.  His involvement with these two acts has undermined and overshadowed his reputation for many years.  I think that perhaps McCullough's admiration for his subject might have overwhelmed his critical faculties. McCullough also gives short shift to the political writings of John Adams. While not as influental as those of Hamilton and Jefferson (and whose are?), they do represent a kind of halfway house between the two. Filled with a mixture of good sense and scholarship, they deserved more attention.  In this area Page Smith's book does a better job in this issue. Despite these shortcomings, I can give this book the highest possible recommendation.lic life he read the classics and did as Voltaire urged, he tended his garden.  In this as in many other stages of his life, Adams set a good example.    Adams may have been at his best operating behind the scenes, he was at his worst when leader of the Federalist Party.  While MCCullough lauds the insistance of putting principle over party, this did diminish Adams effectiveness as chief executive. He was better at selecting effective subordinates, John Marshall for instance than he was running a political party.  If he had sacked George Washington's cabinet (which was filled with Hamilton's cats paws) and selected his own, one wonders how things might have been different.     This book is one of the best on Adams ever written.  Although it is not without its flaws.  I think McCullough might have been a bit more harsh on Adams over the Alien and Sedition acts.  His involvement with these two acts has undermined and overshadowed his reputation for many years.  I think that perhaps McCullough's admiration for his subject might have overwhelmed his critical faculties. McCullough also gives short shift to the political writings of John Adams. While not as influental as those of Hamilton and Jefferson (and whose are?), they do represent a kind of halfway house between the two. Filled with a mixture of good sense and scholarship, they deserved more attention.  In this area Page Smith's book does a better job in this issue. Despite these shortcomings, I can give this book the highest possible recommendation.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R2L2UZ1P034GKE	0060925531	698128879	The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval History	Books	5	3	4	N	N	How we got here	This is an excellent introduction to the Middle Ages and is thought provoking on many different levels.  Although this is a history that looks at the Middle Ages as a whole, Cantor's method is to examine Germany, England, and France and to see how they were able to succeed and fail at differnt times during the period in question.<br />The country that did the best overall was England, due in a large part due to the politcal innovations of Henry II.  Although smaller in terms of land area and population, Henry made England work better than either of the two countries.  If anyone wonders how London could control 1/4 of the earth's surface, this si the time and place where this began.  France and Germany were at the time little more than geographic designations (this is particularly the case with the latter).  Effect centralized control was lacking for much of the period in question.<br />The Kings of France were dominated by the nobles.  A strong king could make a difference from time-to-time, but the lack of the types of institutional innovations present in England clearly undermined effectiveness.<br />The sections on Germany are likewise instructive.  Here the contest between church and state occurs more frequently than in the case of the other two.  The inability of the Holy Roman Emperors to impose centralized control over the bishiprics, princes, electors and other members of the nobility was more pronounced here than elsewhere and competition with the church was even more pronounced.  These conditions undermined the establishment of a political identity for German until the 1870s.<br />I have chosen to focus on one aspect of this remarkable book, but I would not wish to give the impression that the comparative histories of these three states are all that this book is about.  Rather, this book provides the general reader with a greater understanding of the dynamics of the Middle Ages.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R32AV734S2C92G	0313226369	63596086	John Quincy Adams and the Foundations of American Foreign Policy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of our best statesmen	It is ironic that the thing that reflected poorest on John Quincy Adams, his tenure as president, is what he is today remembered for.  In fact, his most outstanding achievements were in the field of foreign affairs and civil liberties.  Professor Bemis's book addresses the first of these (the second is handled in vol. 2).<br />Because of his father's career as a diplomat during the American Revolution, John Adams probably had the best education in foreign affairs of any statesmen in early America.  While charges of nepotism haunted Adams, it was money well-spent in terms of results.  Adams was posted to Prussia, Russian and Great Britain during the Napoleonic War.  He managed to secure a peace treaty with Britain which was threatening to send over the Duke of Wellington to resolve the war of 1812.<br />As Secretary of State, Adams established the principles that later became enshrined as the Monroe Doxtrine.  His vision of Western Hemispheric solidarity was designed to allow the new American Republic to stand up to the more powerful nations of Europe.  Adams did much to establish anti-colonialism as the hallmark of American Foreign Policy up to the Second World War.<br />The job of Secretary of State was seen as the springboard to the presidency in the \\"Era of Good Feelings.\\"  Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe had held this office.  The rise of Adams was overshadowed by that of Andrew Jackson.  However, given the nature of politics at the time neither he nor Adams were able to achieve a clear victory in electoral college.  The inconclusive results of the election of 1824 led to the ultimate decision resting with the House of Representatives. When the fourth runner up and Speaker of the House, Henry Clay was in a position to decide the outcome.<br />The result was the famous \\"corrupt bargin\\" in which Adams came in as president and Clay was appointed to be secretary of state.  The hint of \\"political hanky panky\\" undermined the presidency of John Quincy Adams. There were a number of good ideas proposed, a national university, a system of observatories, internal improvements featuring a national network of canals and roads that would have opened up the west and promoted greater regional ties and interdependence.  Unfortunately these good ideas were ineffective against the charisma of Jackson and the political machinations of Van Buren, the first national political boss. The presidency of John Quincy Adams was ineffective against well-organized congressional opposition.<br />Beemis is excellent on all points. He correctly assesses the highlights of his career. This is intended to be a scholarly biography, not a popular representation.  The level of detail and the flow of the narrative may drag at times, but this book is well worth the effort.e a number of good ideas proposed, a national university, a system of observatories, internal improvements featuring a national network of canals and roads that would have opened up the west and promoted greater regional ties and interdependence.  Unfortunately these good ideas were ineffective against the charisma of Jackson and the political machinations of Van Buren, the first national political boss. The presidency of John Quincy Adams was ineffective against well-organized congressional opposition.<br />Beemis is excellent on all points. He correctly assesses the highlights of his career. This is intended to be a scholarly biography, not a popular representation.  The level of detail and the flow of the narrative may drag at times, but this book is well worth the effort.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	RYOD9TPF9ZT5Z	0394414136	989302307	John Quincy Adams and the Union	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Pride of the Union	This book is the second volume of a two volume biography of John Quincy Adams and it is the definative study of the subject.<br />The book takes up in the midst of his presidency.  Beemis wisely assesses Adams's presidency as a low point in his career as an American statesman.  The focus of the book is career as a congressman, his one foray into the world of popular politics and he performed magnificently.<br />While in congress the crucial issue was slavery.  Adams, like his father, detested the institution.  While not an abolitionist, Adams's concern was the effect that this &quot;peculiar institution was having on the politics of the republic.<br />The justification of slavery seemed to occupy the focus of the southern delgations to Washington during this period. One of the innovations designed to halt discussion was the so-called &quot;gag order&quot; which prevented any petition addressing the subject of slavery to be automatically tabled.  While not having the reputation as a popular politician, Adams realized what was at stake by this measure.  To maintain slavery, fundamental rights were being sacrificed.  To this son of the revolution this endangered all that had come before.  If congress could limit the right of petition, it could limit other rights granted by the constitution, something that all branches of government were willing to accept.<br />Luckily for the future of the United States, Adams was a stubborn fighter who relished the conflict.  This book charts his efforts to overturn this measure and to make the government accountable to its citizens.<br />During this period Adams also defended members of Amistead revolt, fought for the establishment of the Smithsonian Instition (congress had predictably squandered the original bequest), opposed the growth of slavery.  Ironically Adams's reputation was more effective as a congressman than he ever was as president.  He died in 1848 denouncing the Mexican War. He was carried from the chamber of the House of Representatives by his fellow congressmen, among them Abraham Lincoln, a moment of great symbollism.<br />Professor Beemis again demonstrates his mastery of his subject. While a distiguished scholar of American diplomatic history, he displays a great grasp of domestic affairs that his often lacking in those who are specialists in this subject.e House of Representatives by his fellow congressmen, among them Abraham Lincoln, a moment of great symbollism. <br />Professor Beemis again demonstrates his mastery of his subject. While a distiguished scholar of American diplomatic history, he displays a great grasp of domestic affairs that his often lacking in those who are specialists in this subject.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	RVS9JKR6QHLQE	0394587774	414204459	Magician of the Modern: Chick Austin and the Transformation of the Arts in America	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The Orson Welles of Museum Directors..	Charming and innovative are probably the best words to describe Chick Austin, the subject of this biography.  It is rare that a mere museum director is the subject of a biography, particularly one as entertaining as this one, but Chick Austin was not the average museum director.<br />He was schooled early on in European culture by his geneologically ambitious mother, who seemed to spend a great deal of her later years seeking family links, often specious, to European Royalty.  He also developed an interest in magic which stayed with him for the majority of his life.<br />Chick Austin went from indifferent Harvard Student to the director of the Wadsworth Athenium in Hartford in something like 5 years.  He brought a great deal of vigor to this, staging the first Baroque (when this art period was unpopular), Picasso, and Dali shows.  He also staged Gertrude Stein's opera, Four Saints in Three Acts.\\"  All of this was a bit too much for dear old Hartford, who were alternately charmed and shocked by their young art director. Previously the museum had been noted for its collection of colonial furniture, after such an abrupt change it is not too difficult to imagine why.  In the process, Austin managed to acquire a large number of Old Masters and Modern works.  One of the five Caravaggios in the United States was bought for the museum by Austin toward the end of his tenure.<br />Austin's other great achievement was the Ringling Museum in Florida.  The former Circus tycoon had amassed a large collection of Baroque Art in Florida.  Austin not only managed to save many of the paintings from exposure to the elements, but add significantly to the hopdings of the museum by acquiring an 18th century Italian theatre.<br />Predictably, Austin's efforts brought him into conflict with a variety of old fuddie duddies, from trustees, state legislatures and hack journalists.  The unique artistic vision of these cretins is unlikely to be celebrated anytime soon.<br />While Hartford and the steate of Florida haved physical evidence of Austin's efforts, the entire museum going public has cause to likewise be grateful.  With Chick Austin's museums became far less stuffy places,at least in the right hands.<br />This book is written by the director of the Austin House in Hartford and as such it is likely to the be the most authoritative for years to come.and the steate of Florida haved physical evidence of Austin's efforts, the entire museum going public has cause to likewise be grateful.  With Chick Austin's museums became far less stuffy places,at least in the right hands. <br />This book is written by the director of the Austin House in Hartford and as such it is likely to the be the most authoritative for years to come.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R3QJJG9WOTR90X	0070543380	145099317	The Shadow of Blooming Grove: Warren G. Harding in His Times	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Why not the worst?	Harding often makes the list of the worst presidents in US history and this book explores the reasons behind this judgement.  Never a statesman, deeply flawed and ultimately tragic, shows what happens when a person whose only qualifications for the job was that he was good natured back slapper above controversy is elected to the presidency. He was from an important state which helped as well, but these should never be considered as qualifcations for the highest office in the land.<br /><br />Harding was scandal prone from his early days.  There was a rather nasty rumor that, given the circumstances of the time significant.  This was that his family was part African American.  In some ways this was the transformation of the old Democratic civil war \\"bloody shirt\\" strategy that dated back to Reconstruction. The Republicans were accused even after they had abandoned Civil Rights (in 1876) of somehow attempting to promote African American interests at the expense of white Americans. This issue continued to pop up throughout Harding's career.<br /><br />Then there are the women.  Harding was married to a woman who appears to have been a bit of a shrew.  He sought comfort elsewhere and from a variety of sources.  His primary mistress was a political liabilty for more than obvious reasons.  Carrie Phillips was pro-German and after the end of their affair was a thorn in Harding's flesh. Unfortunately, the letters between the two are surpressed in this book due to the legal efforts of Harding's nephew, George T. Harding. Given Harding's reputation, it is unclear what he was trying to protect by doing so. I suppose, given Harding's questionable fluency in English, the letters might make for a further negative reassessment. After all when one is the second worst president, one has to fight tooth and nail anything that would put one below James Buchanan even a collection of letters which may express certain needs in a less than eloquent manner.<br /><br />There is also Nan Britton, who was kind of the Monica Lewinsky of her day.  Fortunately for Harding, this story of their affair and daughter did not come to public notice until after he died.<br /><br />Sex scandals were only part of Harding's presidency.  The people he selected for high office were the worst kind of cronies, who saw public service as the means to make a raid on the treasury and public property. The worst of these was the Teapot Dome scandal in which national oil reserves were sold to private companies below what would be considered fair market price (in exchange for bribes).  This was not Harding's finest hour, but again luckily he was dead when most of these revelations became public. By then stories of bootlegged liquor in the White House, Little Houses on K Street and stock market tips (which proved to be bad ones) had destroyed Harding's reputation forever.  This is why Harding is remembered as one of our worst presidents. Long term relationships with near treasonous mistresses and out-of-wedlock children are really just local colour.<br /><br />Harding's presidency was not quite the disaster it might have been, due to the lack of any great national crisis during his presidency. It is fortunate that this mediocre figure was not in power during a war or economic recession.  His role could only have been negative as Russell frequently demonstrates. Theodore Roosevelt privately felt that he had had it too easy during his presidency and that had he lived through more trying times as Lincoln did he might have achieved even greater things. Harding is the inverse, had he been really tested, he might have destroyed the republic in the most amiable of fashions.<br /><br />Though the subject of Russell's book is not an important figute, it does serve as a cautionary tale of what can go wrong in the selection of presidents.  In 1920, the Republicans would have been better served by nominating Leonard Wood (an associate of Theodore Roosevelt).  Russell is a fan of Wood's who isfar a more compelling figure.  If anything this proves that the reputation of Harding is beyond all hope.ng this proves that the reputation of Harding is beyond all hope.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	RV68QTPJI4N02	0517411393	793671655	The Best of Robert Benchley	Books	5	31	31	N	N	What a joy!	The world can be divided into two groups of people, those who have read Benchley and those who have not.  By far, the happiest people are those who fall into the former category.<br />Robert Benchely was one of the most talented humorists ever to grace the pages of American magazines.  His personna was that of a befuddled upper middle class pater familias. He did not take on the great events of the day, this would have been a waste of time given his world view.  What he did do was to satirize brilliantly the little inconsistencies of daily life.<br />This collection of Benchley's essays is a welcomed one including some 72 examples of his wit and whimsy.  It is literally impossible to select a favorite from so many good pieces One can select any one of them at random and discover some gem of Benchely's imagination. Although this edition is out of print I urge anyone seeking to experience the wit of Benchley to seek out a copy.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R3U8OJIMXEL9ZQ	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Money makes the world go round	This book is an important history of economic thought throughout the ages.  It gives the general reader a basic understanding of how economics has changed through the years from Adam Smith to contemporary times.<br />The impression I gained of this book was that economics does not have a unified theory that addresses all circumstances. A doctrinaire approach could lead to disaster if the solutions proposed to not match the circumstances they were meant to address.  In fact, most of the great thinkers of economic matters are addressing specific difficulties which tend to be narrowly focused on a particular set of circumstances.  Adam Smith sought to address the problems of mercantilism, Karl Marx the dislocations of the industrial revolution, Keynes, the problems of deflationary economic policy. This is an insightful thesis which explains a great deal.<br />This book is useful to the person who is familiar with economics and a cautionary tale for people like myself who are not.  It provides a good overwiew and gives a good critical understanding of the men and ideas who have contributed to our understanding of these issues.	2003-06-24
US	48415631	R1N58ZVJQ5S7O3	0140134433	547596669	The Use and Abuse of History	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Telling it like it is...	M.I.Finley is a distinquish scholar of the classical world and is one of the leading authorities on Aristotle.  This selection of essays give some sense to the extent of his considerable learning.  The most outstanding of these essays is the one that lends itself to the title of the work, the use and abuse of history.  In it Finley explores the ways that politicians throughout the beginning of time have used history to force forward their own agendas. One wonders if anyone is ever concerned with implementing something new, rather than merely putting new wine in old bottles and hoping the various involved parties will construe it as the some old thing.<br />This is a very dishonest way to carry out business, and Finley is fairly even-handed in his condemnations.  However, Finley does avoid answering the larger question, why does the practice continue?<br />I think anyone seeking to understand the real workings of history by one committed to a truthful exploration of the past, rather than someone's hidden agenda (and the best seller lists are frequently filled with these) should sit down and read this fascinating book.	2003-06-23
US	48415631	R10G8UC6P3RAEB	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Dickens at his best...	Dickens referred to this book as his favorite and this is not surprising. It does contain more than the usual autobiographical details than probably any other book.  However, this is the book in which Dickens reached the height of his powers as an imaginative artist.  It is in some ways the fulfillment of a promise made in his earlier works of fiction.<br />The story of David Copperfield is familiar, the orphan boy who escapes hard times with a cruel stepfather to a more secure homelife with an eccentric aunt and then makes his way in world amid humor and tragedy.  While the story is one of the best in the Dickens cannon, it is the characters that stand out as some of the best approximations of humanity ever put on papper.  Mr. Murdstone, Mr. Macawber, Aunt Betsy Trotwood, Barcus, Uriah Heap, and Lit'le Emily are all mouments to the art of the novel and a testament to the greatness of Dickens.	2003-06-23
US	48415631	R3K0ARWOBTOTSC	0897333624	659017839	Queen Elizabeth I	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The best book on QEI	Although hardly a year goes by without someone new coming up with another biography on Queen Elizabeth I, this probably is the best of the lot.  Many of the subsequent volumes that have appeared after Neale generally owe him a debt of gratitude at least for assembling the basic facts of the life of the Virgin Queen.<br />Elizabeth's life has been told many times, her parents, Henry VIII and Anne Bolyn's ill-fated marriage, imprisionment during the reigns of both siblings, Thomas Seymour (whose sister replaced her mother in Henry's bed-would any soap opera try this plot twist?), Thomas Wyatt, William Cecil, Robert Dudley, Mary Queen of Scotts, the Spanish Armada, Shakespeare, and Gloriana.  What Neale does quite well is to provide some real insight into the life of this the best of Britain's rulers and to place her actions in context. Some might think that Neale's treatment is too positive, I think the tone of the book is consistent with the greatness of this woman who, unlike her modern day namesake, ruled as well as reigned.	2003-06-18
US	48415631	R1CW8F0Q0CNVFN	0375703683	638814949	The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Whatever happened to Brideshead?	How is it that the owners of Britain's stately homes, who once lived magnificently, now are reduced to admitting paying visitors to keep their homes?  While this question is never asked in David Cannadine's book, it is answered nonetheless.<br />Cannadine manages rather adroitly to discuss the long downward spiral of the British aristocracy amidst the backdrop of the history of Great Britain in the 19th and 20th century.  There was a time in which these great magnates practically owned or controlled most of the wealth of the nation.  What went wrong?<br />A better question might be, what went right.  Although they managed to control politics, the military, the church and the civil service, the position of these guardians of Britannia was undermined by two things, the industrial revolution (which put up a new manufacturing class in opposition to the traditional nobles) and the rise of popular democracy. The first three reform bills drastically weakened the traditional hold of the aristocracy on the political process.  During the 19th century it was a rare government that did not include several if not many representatives of the titled orders. By late the 20th century, the presence of one of these would seem somewhat quaint, a reminder of by gone days.<br />But it was not just the loss of political power that undermined the aristocracy, the immediate pre WWI years were a disaster of the first magnitude with Lloyd George and his &quot;people's budget.&quot;<br />One wonders what would have happened to someone of Lloyd George's ilk in the 17th century. Doubless he would have shared the same fate as Bishop Laud.<br />WWI, WWII, and the rise of the Labor Party really were the final nails in the coffin of the British Aristocracy and the once lords of the realm are now reduced to lending their names to directorships (some of doubtful legitimacy), opening their homes to tourists, and even worse turning their backs on the whole of what it meant to be noble as the family fortunes and the roof of the family manse continue to erode away.<br />Cannadine handles all of this rather well bolstering each of his claims brilliantly.  If one wants to know how the British Aristocracy went from being the rulers of the realm to one of its tourist attractions they should read this book.fortunes and the roof of the family manse continue to erode away. <br />Cannadine handles all of this rather well bolstering each of his claims brilliantly.  If one wants to know how the British Aristocracy went from being the rulers of the realm to one of its tourist attractions they should read this book.	2003-06-18
US	48415631	R14Z0SSLRAYK8K	0416320201	925848680	The Thirty Years' War (University Paperbacks)	Books	5	88	91	N	N	Marching with Gustavus	This is by far the best book ever written on the Thirty Years war and this judgement is unlikely to change very soon.  Wedgewood is one of the 20th century's distiguished historians.  This book was written and published during WWII and as such this gives the works a sense of dramatic urgency.  Wedgewood saw clear parallels between what happened in the 17th century and what was happening to Europe in the 1940s.  The Jesuits for example are referred to as &quot;the storm troopers of the counter-Reformation. <br />Wedgewood's sympathies are clearly with the Protestants and there is no doubt who the hero of the book is, Gustavus Adolphus, who is in nearly every way portrayed positively.  That is not to say that this is a flaw with the book, rather it is a strength.  In these days of sprin doctors, it sometimes seems difficult to realize that good press was sometimes earned and deserved. <br />It would be too difficult to try and summarize the book in the space provided. In a nutshell, the Thirty Years war evolved into a general European conflict (with the English sitting this one out) due to many of the unresolved issues of the previous century. The Hapsburgs of Austria wanted to dominate the Holy Roman Empire, France wanted to contain the Spainish and Austrian branches, and Sweden was on its way to becoming a world power (for at least the next 100 years).  The reason the war went on for so long was that no one really had the strength to land a decisive blow.  Oddly enough whenever a power did come close some disaster would over take the army and the powers would have to start over again.  Supplying, paying and feeding armies in the field was probably the most problematical undertaking of the entire conflict, along with finding the funds to continue the war for yet another year. <br />Wedgewood masterfully is able to describe a number of personalities, political situations and religious conflicts to give a real sense of both the era and the people who made it.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	R10IB5F97COTQ	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Fit as a Bull Moose	This is one of the best books ever done on a US president.  Morris, after a less than satisfactory turn as Ronald Reagan's biographer, is in fine form and I cannot wait for the next volume in this series.<br />Morris brings a real understanding of his subject in this book, the second in a series, projected to include three volumes.  Prior to Morris, there were any number of fine books that dealt with TR's era, but each had its failings.  I am happy to state that at last Teddy Roosevelt has found a biography that is worthy of his greatness.<br />The strengths of the book are easy to list. First of all Morris knows his subject.  He also understands the era and is very good about providing context.  This last quality is something that is necessary in all great biographies, but is lacking in most of them.  I cannot wait for the next installment.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	R2GI6UW0GZHSLD	0306706288	213057849	002: Ickes Sec Diaryv 02	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Invaluable document	The diaries of Harold Ickes are one of the great documents of American history. Ickes was one of the leading lights of the New Deal and probably was one of the most decisive secretaries of interior of all time.  The interior department was very much at the center of the New Deal (we think of it as the department that managed national parks, but in the 30s it was much more, overseeing most of the relief programs as well in the days before the departments of Housing and Urban development and Health and Human Services.<br />Ickes was also not a man to suffer fools or the pompous gladly. Unlike most diarists, Ickes was not a sort of wall flower figure quietly noting down the days events in a journal. Ickes was at the center of controversy and these journals bring alive the events of the New Deal like no others.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	R1CMUEDENXMZRF	0618219277	443020119	A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House	Books	2	13	40	N	N	Just awful	When I was a child, the luster had not quite left the Kennedy administration as a historical era  and this book was believed to be the definative history on the subject. While Camelot continues to maintain some of its swankness as soap opera (as indicated by the success of the Jackie Kennedy dress collection museum exhibit), no one with a brain can read this book without laughing.<br />Schlesinger was Kennedy's historian in residence and his job was to one day produce the official record of the administration. This he did with all the flair of the Vice President of a local Elk's chapter delivering the annual financial report.  It is pretty amazing that anyone would or could read this book in which nearly every act is conceived from some sort of high minded purpose.  This may be a staple on the television show &quot;The West Wing,&quot; but that is not the way things work in real life.  Does every aspect of the New Frontier really require the level of attention that Schlesinger provides. Do we really need lengthy chapters on &quot;The Alliance for Progess,&quot; a failed initiative? I do not think so.<br />Schlesinger clearly is too close to his subject to render an unbiased historical account of these events.  I cannot understand why this book is still in print.  Perhaps photogenic pictures of JFK will continue to push sales forward. However charismatic Kennedy may have been it is never a good idea to judge a book by its cover.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	R2YX070K25308Y	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Camelot without tears	I have read my share of books on Kennedy, both fawning works and works that like to portray the New Frontier as Babylon on the Potomac. However this book is a bit of a first, it presents us with the details of the administration's workings and gives us a sense of what really happened in the White House and elsewhere during 1961-1963.<br />What I came away from in reading this book was a time in which Kennedy frequently found himself in over his head.  The best moment, and the one that illustrates this for me perfectly was an encounter with Charles de Gaule in Paris.  Like a student that is too cleaver, JFK makes a cleaver remark regarding Indo-China.  De Gaule counters by trying to warn Kennedy away and providing a basis for doing so.  The French had been in Vietnam before and probably, at least in this instance, had some insight.  Kennedy declined to take de Gaulle's advice, but fearful that the former general might make these remarks public demanded silence in return. De Gaulle indicated that he was not in the habit of behaving in this fashion and that was the end of that session.<br />No, moments like this do not make it into the movies in which people with good hair and teeth mouth homilies, but they are genuine and are probably more indicative of how things really worked than the sorts of things that have pretended to be historical works over the years.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	RP5RJZX2WGA0L	0416320201	925848680	The Thirty Years' War (University Paperbacks)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Marching with Gustavus	This is by far the best book ever written on the Thirty Years war and this judgement is unlikely to change very soon.  Wedgewood is one of the 20th century's distiguished historians.  This book was written and published during WWII and as such this gives the works a sense of dramatic urgency.  Wedgewood saw clear parallels between what happened in the 17th century and what was happening to Europe in the 1940s.  The Jesuits for example are referred to as \\"the storm troopers of the counter-Reformation.<br /><br />Wedgewood's sympathies are clearly with the Protestants and there is no doubt who the hero of the book is, Gustavus Adolphus, who is in nearly every way portrayed positively.  That is not to say that this is a flaw with the book, rather it is a strength.  In these days of spin doctors, it sometimes seems difficult to realize that good press was sometimes earned and deserved.<br /><br />It would be too difficult to try and summarize the book in the space provided. In a nutshell, the Thirty Years war evolved into a general European conflict (with the English sitting this one out) due to many of the unresolved issues of the previous century. The Hapsburgs of Austria wanted to dominate the Holy Roman Empire, France wanted to contain the Spainish and Austrian branches, and Sweden was on its way to becoming a world power (for at least the next 100 years).  The reason the war went on for so long was that no one really had the strength to land a decisive blow.  Oddly enough whenever a power did come close some disaster would over take the army and the powers would have to start over again.  Supplying, paying and feeding armies in the field was probably the most problematical undertaking of the entire conflict, along with finding the funds to continue the war for yet another year.<br /><br />Wedgewood masterfully is able to describe a number of personalities, political situations and religious conflicts to give a real sense of both the era and the people who made it.	2003-06-10
US	48415631	R1MAM2HTKQ4U3D	0198329032	428690898	Disraeli (Clarendon Biographies)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Dizzy he was not	During the high tide of the Victorian era, the political life of the nation was dominated by two men, Disraeli and Gladstone.  Gladstone is an obvious choice for one of the top statesmen of the era, he was elected four times to the premiership.  Disraeli was not quite so fortunate.  However, given the short period of time that he was in office he accomplished a great deal.  He brought the tories back from the dead, passed a reform bill and managed to acquire the Suez Canal.  At the Congress of Berlin, Disraeli's command of the situation even impressed Bismark (not exactly a slouch in these sorts of things). Not bad from a rather foppish young man who specialized in &quot;Silver Fork&quot; novels (a fictional version of lifestyles of the rich and famous in the 19th century).<br />Blake's book is the best one on the subject of Benjamin Disraeli.  The complex story of the novelist turned politican is brought out in all of its facets. Disraeli was probably one of the most interesting people to be prime minister (after perhaps Churchill and Walpole) and Blake's book shows the reader how he did it.	2003-03-24
US	48415631	R2H8E9AQKAE8BR	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Responses to the Modern World	This is a remarkable book and probably the best explanation of all of the negative features of day-to-day life.  Starting at the departure point that organized religion has had difficulty dealing with the modern world, Armstrong demonstrates how religion has evolved over the past 500 years.  There appears to be something in human nature that is in conflict with the tenents of the modern world. Freud examined this idea in \\"Civilization and its discontents\\" Armstrong shows how this has had an impact on the three monotheistic religions.<br />Basically the choice was to adapt to modern life which proved itself to be far more efficient and capable of addressing material needs or to rebel against it.  While some segments of Protestantism, Judaism, and Islam were able to make the leap into the modern world, others did not and positively rebelled against it. One need only look at a recent front page of the newspaper with talk about the Jewish settlers on the West Bank, doctor killing pro-lifers and al Qada terrorists to see just how wide spread this reaction against modernity is and how deadly fundamentalism can be.<br />Armstrong is not totally hostile to fundamentalism and believes that it is a way of dealing with the spirital needs of humanity.  The most important observation that she makes however is that these moments, if they turn their backs on compassion (elements of all three of the monotheistic religions) then they truly become lost and are literally, as September 11th demonstrated, dangerous movements.	2003-03-21
US	48415631	R21HGVJRXS8BOS	0394527534	472113855	FDR: The New Deal Years 1933-1937	Books	5	3	3	N	N	High tide	Some people claim that Arthur Schlesinger wrote the definative history of the New Deal and FDR back in the 1950s.  These same people probably are unfamiliar with this wonderful book by Kenneth Davis.<br />This is not just a history of the period of 1933-37, but an extended mediatation on how we are a nation are going to respond to the changes brought about by industrialization.<br />Do not be put off by this last statement because Davis is an excellent writer, historian and philosopher.  The best part of this book deals with how social security came to be shaped in the form that it finally was. How all manner of elements came together for the legislation to be written.  It is just remarkable.<br />Davis is evenhanded in this book and in the series as a whole.  He identifies FDR's triumphs but at the same time is willing to be critical when he feels the actions warrent it.<br />Davis and his series have been recognized repeatedly although I believe that they probably were not given the praise that this series deserved. They are simply the best thing to be written on FDR by a historian.	2003-03-20
US	48415631	RR190B21KQSWG	0679761241	472113855	FDR: The New Deal Years 1933-1937	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Past is future	This really is a remarkable book and outstanding contribution to FDR scholarship.  All of the books in this series are probably the best books on the life and times of Franklin Roosevelt, but I think this is one is the best.<br />In this, the second volume in the series Davis explores just how much of the early stages of FDR's presidency owed to his career as governor, how his concerns as governor of the state of New York were later transfered from Albany to Washington.  Concerns with conservation and the power monopolies in these years were later to serve as the springboard for a number of New Deal initiatives.<br />Anyone wishing to learn more about the greatest president of the 20th century should look no further than this series of books by Mr. Davis.  Sadly, Mr. Davis did not live to bring the series to its logical conclusion in 1945.  Had he done so, this would be the definative study of FDR.  As things are, it is likely to be the best biography for many years to come, despite some problems with vol. 4 and its premature conclusion.	2003-03-20
US	48415631	R32RZ89XOCF8KQ	0679748792	663711659	FDR: The Beckoning of Destiny, 1882-1928	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How it all began...	This book was awarded a well-deserved Parkman for the quality of its scholarship.  This is the best book on the early years of FDR.  It follows his childhood and explores the relationships with the key people in his life: the formidable Sara Delano Roosevelt, his marriage to Eleanor, and his political education from Louis Howe.<br />This book also has a great deal to say about polio and how FDR and each of these people responded. This is not &quot;Sunrise at Campabello, although it is clear that polio did make Roosevelt into the person who was able to become the greatest president of the 20th century.	2003-03-20
US	48415631	R2HQA3RFBHSZEG	0810111608	965032393	Cement (European Classics)	Books	1	29	63	N	N	Please shoot this old war horse	It is my sincere hope that people interested in Russian literature are no longer forced to read this awful book.  When I was in school, during the Cold War period, I could see some usefulness. Socialist Realism was the approved creative style in Russia and one could not come away from reading 20th century literature and think that everything was as well-writen as Bulgakov's Master and Margarita and Zamyatin's We.  Yes, in order to understand the Soviet mind one had to read awful books like \\"Virgin Soil Upturned (proving that any hack can win a Nobel Prize) by Sholokhov, How Steel Was Tempered and yes, Cement.<br />When we were reading this book, and I have read it twice, there was an attempt to show in the example of the book's communist party heroine, that working women cannot have it all. Well quite frankly, the reason this heroine is unable to find love and happiness is because she is supporting the creation of a joyless utopia where no one will ever be allowed to be really happy.	2003-03-19
US	48415631	R1DDWTTOZRKZMW	0525026452	634056520	The Flowering of New England	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A treasure trove	It is a shame that this book is out of print as it is one of the best books ever published on American civilization.  Many people think that New England gave us only Emerson and Thoreau. In point of fact the cultural life of Boston and the environs was much more interesting and dynamic than one would imagine, particularly if one has not read this book. This is a series of vignettes rather than a seamless history. It is a kind of Plutarch's Lives of New England cultural figures.<br />What I particularly enjoyed about it was not the usual stories of people everyone has heard about, like Emerson, Alcott, Thoreau, but also people like William H. Prescott, whose story is perhaps the most inspiring.  Though blind, he was able through the use of sighted readers to write some of the best histories of Spain under the Hapsburgs that have ever been written (anyone who is familiar with the archives in Madrid and their chaotic nature will want to make Prescott a particular hero). The section on Hawthorne is also very fine due to what Brooks has to say about Boston vs Salem. They are very different places as anyone who has ever been there can testify.<br />I hope this book comes back into print.  It should be readily available to the ordinary reader.	2003-03-18
US	48415631	R2MNFM34RLAK07	0140440356	125142565	The Devils: The Possessed (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	9	41	N	N	A hellish book	I must confess I do not care for Dostoyevsky and this is probably his weakest and least probable book.  This is the book that he wrote as a kind of apology for having once been a revolutionary.  While I can agree that the people who populate this book are scoundrals and this probably is accurate, the ending is just horrible.  Here we have the old revolutionary, &quot;People's Will&quot; stalwart marching through the snow having been discarded by everyone and on his deathbed crying out for the gospels.  I just did not buy it and do not think anyone really can suspend disbelief to do so either.	2003-03-18
US	48415631	R27YJYU0OLGZN0	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	I loved this book!	Michael Chabon is one of the best writers at work today and this book can illustrate just why.  The book follows the adventures of two cartoonists during the golden age of comics. Kavalier and Clay, out of their common experiences, create a superhero called \\"The Escapist\\" who represents their longings, Kavalier to escape the burden of being a surviver of the Nazi campaign against the Jews and Clay's attempt to come to terms with his homosexuality.  It is only when they put this character finally to rest that the characters come to terms with these issues. In telling this story, Chabon combines elements of folklore, mythology and pop culture. I think this work is one of the best works of fiction written in the last 20 years and look forward to reading all future books by Chabon.	2003-03-06
US	48415631	R3IB84OAJYPAJB	0374519994	705074922	August 1914	Books	1	9	43	N	N	Communism has much to answer for	Alexander Solzhenitsyn may have won the Nobel Prize, but I think the people in Stockholm would have been within their rights to ask for their money back with this one.  &quot;One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich&quot; and Gulag are great books, but the other works are just dreadful and this book is no exception.  Characters are wooden, plots are contrived. The person who does not read Russian is fortunate since this book is even worse in its native language.  Mr. Willetts deserves all manner of praise not only for completing this work, but for also managing to read it not just once, but for many times.<br />This book is Solzhenitsyn's attempt to construct the Russian history novel.  In the hands of a master like Tolstoy, this becomes War and Peace, perhaps the greatest work in all Russian literature, in Solzhenitsyn's hands this is the result.<br />When I first read this work, I am not sure I knew quite what to expect since it is a departure from Solzhenitsyn's usual subject matter, the crimes of the Soviet state.  One would be prepared to forgive those old gray men in the Kremlin much if they had successfully banned this particular book and prevented it from ever being published.<br />Solzhenitsyn's intent is to create a work which shows how communism came to power and he uses the beginning of the first world war as a jumping off point.  This is an excellent start, but really by the first 50 pages no one really cares and the story remains flat and uninteresting for the duration.  It does say something that Solzhenitsyn has taken one of the most interesting eras in human history and made it dull and boring.	2003-03-06
US	48415631	R3VW5VJRZEPYR1	0140442731	76700733	Diary of a Madman and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Don't judge this book by its cover	i must confess that I have always been more than a little disturbed by the cover of this book.  The stories featured in this book by Gogol deal with the desperate lives of the St Petersburg bureaucrats, Gogol was one and these are his people!  The best story is &quot;The Diary of a Madman&quot; and this deals with the adventures of one of these low grade civil servants who finds his plans and dreams continually frustrated. As a way out he gradually becomes convinced that he is destined for &quot;bigger and better things&quot; (I will not reveal more here, but will leave this to those who will discover just what this is by reading the story).  In his delusion, Gogol uses the technique of dislocation to describe the further adventures of his hapless hero and rarely is it used with greater comic effect.  Tolstoy was a master of this literary device,particularly when he wanted to satirize something of which he disapproved, but Gogol perfected it.  If one wants to see the beginnings of a rich tradition of humor in Russian literature, one cannot do any better than this book.  I still dislike the cover and believe that the editors of Penguin may be turning away more business than they generate by the rather off-putting artwork.	2003-03-05
US	48415631	R7T5E1ASNR2NQ	0316546550	76846676	Point of No Return	Books	5	96	100	N	N	They do not write books like this anymore	There are few books published like this any more and I wonder why.  One reason could be that people do not read like they once did and this is why serious fiction concerns itself with either life in the university (hardly the stomping ground for everyman figures) and alternately freaks and geeks.  Since the death of John Cheever, there have been few books that address the trials and tribulations of the middle and upper middle class reader.  One does not find sensational crimes or magic realism in works by John Marquand.  While there certainly is a place for these sorts of things, it is a pity that Marquand's influence waned with his death in the 1960s.<br /><br />This book concerns themes that probably are more universal than what one finds in contemporary literature.  A man is seeking to get a promotion in his firm and he is in competition with another person for it.  During the novel we really get \\"the story of his life, using the \\"flashback technique\\" that Marquand made famous in all of his best books.  Along the way there is regret and a curiosity about what he might lost by not pursuing a different path. Not exactly earth shattering events, but things that grownups experience everyday.<br /><br />One wonders if the reason that people do not read as they once did is due to television and other assorted distraction or for the simple reason that the books that are published are so very far removed from common experiences.<br /><br />Marquand's fall since the 1960s has been a sad one.  He was at one time, one the best-selling authors in the US.  It is a tragedy that more of his works are not in print, this one in particular.  If ever an author desereved \\"The Library of America\\" treatment it is he.	2003-03-05
US	48415631	R2LJVBHJ83TVF9	1568494467	670154514	The Late George Apley	Books	5	43	45	N	N	It is a tragedy that this book is out of print...	John P. Marquand probably was one of the most successful authors of his day and this book, for which he won a Pulitzer prize was the start of his brilliant career. Unfortunately, with Marquand's death in 1960, he fell from favor with the academy who was itself enamoured with tales of life in a university and stories addressing issues of gender and sex.  Marquand's stories about middle aged WASPs in Boston coping with trying to come to grips with their lives were no longer in fashion and sadly have not returned to the center place that they previously occupied.<br />This is a novel about manners and invokes the particular time and place of the WASP ascendency in America, just before the second World War.  Marquand's hero is a representative of what used to be known as a \\"Boston Brahmin.\\"  Marquand handles Apley with a mixture of bemusement and foundness.  He has clearly met George Apley's in his life and knows the type well.  What would have been in less capable hands a mere characture, becomes a full portrait of what was at the time, a dying breed.  Marquand sensed this and this provides the point of departure for the book.<br />\\"The Late George Apley is a bit of a pastische of privately printed books designed to memorialize a dearly departed loved one.  This allows Marquand to use his frequently used flashback technique to describe the particulars of Apley's life. At times this provides Marquand with the opportunity to indulge in both high comedy and low drama, as is the case when Apley falls in love with a girl who is both Irish and Catholic. Although this enables some satire on the subject of the way Boston's elite viewed the Irish, it is also a source of regret that Apley, like so many characters in Marquand's books, did not make a different choice in life.  Sentiments that as Jonathan Yardley has observed \\"are not just limited to the denizens of Backbay or Harvard Square.\\"	2003-02-20
US	48415631	R3QR3SYTDCBM77	0393321223	444586736	Tolstoy: A Biography	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Not the average biography	Tolstoy is one the greatest writers during what must be considered the heroic age of novel writing.  He never makes a wrong move in his writing, but probably was one of the most unpleasant people ever to live.  Wilson here gives us a view of both the sublime artist and the opinionated gad fly of his friends, family and country and presents a fairly complete picture of a divided man.  This is a tell all book, but not in the usual sense. Wilson focuses on the inner life of Tolstoy rather than his day to day experiences which probably were not as meaningful to him as what went on inside.  This probably is the best biogrpahy of Tolstoy in English. It is good for those who are familiar with Tolstoy's works and for those who are not.	2003-02-06
US	48415631	R1Z492Y5DAGF2F	0940450127	109466931	Democracy, Esther, Mont Saint Michel and Chartres, The Education of Henry Adams	Books	5	41	43	N	Y	Greatest hits	The Library of America is one of the best organizations.  Here at last are both novels, his interesting autobiography, and Mont St Michel all under one roof.<br />\\"Democracy\\" is one of the best political novels of all time and speaking as a denizen of the nation's capital, very little has changed.  Esther is attempt deal with the \\"woman question.\\"  Clearly the inspiration of both books is Mrs. Henry Adams.  Known as \\"Voltaire in petticoats\\" (Henry James), she later tragically took her own life following a period of depression.  The death of his wife led to Henry Adams' retirement from public life.  This subject is covered in Ernest Samuels' wonderful biography (which I also recommend).<br />I suggest a look at his biography since the subject of Marion Clover Adams is avoided  entirely in \\"The Education of Henry Adams.\\" Henry Adams may not discuss his wife, but he does touch on nearly everything else of importance in his autobiography.  \\"Growing up Adams,\\" life in Europe with Garibaldi's forces, life at the British legation in London during the Civil War are all addressed.  The best and probably the most key chapter in the book is the one entitled \\"The Virgin and Dynamo.\\"  Adams uses the 1876 cenntenial fair as a departure to meditate of the impact of the  industrial revolution. Adams believed with the growth of technology that man would somehow outgrow the simple humanity of the Middle Ages (it would have been interesting if Adams had lived long enough to meet someone like Carl Jung to see what he would have to say on this subject!). One of the foremost historians (the Library of America has also issued the history of Jefferson and Madison's Administrations, which is a classic), Adams became interested in the Middle Ages and his survey of the two great cathedrals of France Chartes and Mont St. Michel is the final book in the volume.  I cannot recommend this book too highly, it is a must for all fans of Henry Adams and those who would like to experience him for the first time.he first time.	2003-01-21
US	48415631	R3D1CE9Y5O9Z3D	0192833987	748295604	War and Peace (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	48	52	N	N	The best book of 19th Century Russia literature	To have only 1,000 words to describe why I like this book is not nearly enough. I have read this book 6 times and I confess I find something new everytime. I expect I will the next six, or eight or ten times. The story of War and Peace involves a large cast of characters. The ones to keep an eye on are the Bolkonskys (based on Tolstoy's own family), the Rostovs, and Pierre Bezukov. There are also the nasty Kuragins whose presence generally means trouble of one sort or another for one of the other characters.<br />Tolstoy originally wanted to do a book on the Decemberists, a group of aristocratic Russian rebels who really came of age during the war with Napoleon. However, his novelist's sense told him that it would be a more interesting story if he looked at how the generation of 1812 came to be what they later became.<br />This book works on different levels. First there is the plot of book which contains some of the most fully realized characters in all of literature.<br />It is also about Tolstoy's theory of history which is meant to be an answer to Carlyle's \\"Great Man of History.\\" In Tolstoy's mind, great men of history, with their many concerns are the slave of history. In this book he manages to turn Carlyle on his head.<br />Finally, this is the great national epic of Russian literature. Considering the competition this is a fairly bold assertion. What Tolstoy is writing about here is how Russia, at least the Frenchified upper class became Russian.<br />This translation is much superior to the Constance Garnett translation which contains a number of questionable judgements. Ms Garnett single handedly translated most of Russian literature, but some of her translations are a bit of a departure from the original. The Bolkonsky family estate is best rendered in English as \\"Bald Hills\\" not \\"Bleak Hills.\\" The Maud translation is superior in many ways.<br />Don't just read this book, reread it.	2003-01-14
US	48415631	R2JZJP7IK10X7T	0300028431	289047925	Russia in the Age of Catherine the Great	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A great book for Catherine the Great	Catherine the Great did much in her life to make Russia into a modern power.  Educated, one of Russia's most competent rulers, and successful, she has had the bad luck to become a heroine of romantic fiction who is remember more for her sex life than for what she actually did and did not do.  This book by Isabel de Madariaga shows us why Catherine was call \\"the great\\" and it wasn't because her life and loves.  This was the great era of Russian expansion, cultural development (Catherine's offspring would get the benefit of the seeds she planted in the 18th century) and greater westernization.  In all areas except one, the persistent problem of serfdom, which dominates the Imperial period of Russian history, Catherine advanced.  I doubt very much if this will alter the image of Catherine that has been crafted in 1,000s of works of popular fiction, but readers wanting to know the whole story should take a look at this book.	2003-01-10
US	48415631	R1C2YW6ANG2L9H	0140437533	215074548	Vanity Fair (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	More fun than a barrel of monkeys!	When reading victorian fiction, with its prim and child-like heroines, I sometimes long for a story about someone who is neither long suffering or innocent.  Vanity Fair is the perfect remedy.  Becky Sharp probably is the wickedest woman in 19th century fiction and one of the most delightful.  Whether facing uncertainties at the battle of Waterloo, or seeking a rich protector, or FINALLY marrying for money (this husband disappears before the money does), Becky is determined to have the kind of life with which she would like to become accustomed.  This book is pure pleasure since the reader is always wondering \\"what is she going to do next.\\"  This book cannot be praised too highly.	2003-01-10
US	48415631	RT1GIOJ57PIHG	0195090497	340250804	Reckoning with Reagan: America and Its President in the 1980s	Books	1	4	18	N	N	Stop the madness	It seems that there is no escape from these hazy sweet books of Ronal Reagan.  Let's just hope that they do not turn into the cottage industry that books on the Kennedies morphed into.	2003-01-09
US	48415631	RTQYJ0735MCM6	0670030775	880837915	Charles Dickens (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A good brief account of Dickens	For those who want to spend two weeks leaning about Dickens, Peter Ackroyd's book is really excellent.  However if you do not have that kind of time, this work by Jane Smiley is excellent.  Whoever marries the authors to the subjects should be commended.  Jane Smiley is a best-selling author. Who better to write on the foremost novelist during the high noon of the novel as a medium?<br />This book provided an excellent overview not only of the life of Dickens, which can be summed up as &quot;poor boy makes good,&quot; but also the novels themselves.  I do not agree with some of Jane Smiley's criticism (&quot;Pickwick Papers&quot; is a good read, despite what she says), but by and large she is on target with a great deal of what she has to say.	2003-01-09
US	48415631	RER0BWHIXNML7	094045064X	377137498	The Debate on the Constitution : Federalist and Antifederalist Speeches, Articles and Letters During the Struggle over Ratification, Part Two: January to August 1788 (Library of America)	Books	5	37	42	N	N	real political analysis	Unlike the political commentators of the late 20th and early 21st century (watchers of Sunday public affairs programs and AM radio listeners know who they are), the commentators of the 18th century actually had something of substance to say.  This was a time when education was rare, but when done was done well.  The New American Library does its usual exceptional job in assembling the material in this book including some of the more important selections from the Federalist Papers as well as some of the writings of the anti-Federalists.  Here the role of the government and the nature of freedom are really explored.  Life was better before politics became about feeling and emotion.  Every American should read this book, but only if he wants to really understand the basis of the American experiment.	2003-01-07
US	48415631	RN5P0XKYGBW30	0316812196	846892559	Cocteau, a Biography.	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The French creative force	Cocteau seems to turn up in most unusual places.  First he is praised by no less a figure than Edith Wharton, then he is hobnobbing with Proust, then off with Picasso, Diagalev, Stravinsky, and the Ballets Russes set, finally he is a film maker of the live action film of Beauty and the Beast.  In between his life was filled with more living than should be allowed by law.  Steegmuller's biography does justice to this life and probably will remain the definative text on the subject.	2003-01-07
US	48415631	R12HGH3058GQKJ	0374237506	352357249	The Proper Study of Mankind: An Anthology of Essays	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fabulous collection of essays	Isaiah Berlin probably is one of the 20th century's most underrated thinkers.  A truely learned man he brought his insight in the history of ideas, reflecting on the elightenment and freedom, the golden age of Russian literature, and rubbing shoulders with the high and the mighty.  All of these facets are displayed here. Mr. Hardy has done an exceptional job at assembling these essays.  My favorite being \\"The Hedgehog and the Fox.\\" In this essay, Berlin explores the natures of Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy.  Dostoyevsky is the hedgehog who knows one thing really well.  Tolstoy is the fox, reflecting his epic sweep and universal understanding of humanity.  In a nutshell, Berlin's political philosophy is strongly lined up on the side of freedom and the dignity of the individual. Not exactly in favor in these days of extremist bland thinking. My one complaint is that there is so much more to Berlin than these exceptional essays.  If 20th century philosophy is to be remembered as more than an unpleasant memory, it will be as the time of the age of Berlin.	2003-01-07
US	48415631	R15EP6G8K3TGRR	1857993632	543209077	Toulouse-Lautrec: A Life (Phoenix Giants)	Books	1	11	19	N	N	I hate Freud when applied to people the author never met	I must agree with some of the other reviews that have appeared on this book.  I got this book with the intention of learning something more about Toulouse Lautrec.  I really like all aspects of his work and wanted to find something that would be more true to life than the the movie &quot;Moulin Rouge.&quot;  Usually in most biographies of artists there is a more than passing interest in the work.  I did not find this aspect in this book.  Instead the author focuses on rather facile Freudian looks at the paintings themselves.  As Freud himself observed, &quot;sometimes a cigar is only a cigar.&quot; Elements of composition are subjected to a desire to demonstrate some sort of unified field theory toward Toulouse Lautrec's art.  I am still looking for a book that illuminate's Toulouse Lautrec's art and life for this clearly is not it.	2003-01-02
US	48415631	R3SNZ4CDL88YE6	0316544787	937509331	006: Sage of Monticello: Volume VI (Jefferson & His Time (Little Brown & Company))	Books	5	5	9	N	N	The last of the wine	What can be said about this monument to Jefferson scholarship?  I am sure that somewhere in universities around the United States there are &quot;scholar squirrels who want to put down this invaluable resource in Jefferson studies.  It is always the way that mice attempt to gnaw at lions.  This is not a perfect work (and my remarks refer to all of the books in the series as a whole), there are somethings, namely Sally Hemmings references which are wrong and will not sit well with American 21st century mores.  There is the issue of slavery which was handled much differently 50 years ago than it is now.<br />Jefferson is not worthy of our interest because of Sally Hemmings and because he kept slaves.  Jefferson is great because of the Declaration of Independence and his fight for the rights of man.  While it may have been hypocritical to preach liberty and keep slaves, it is doubtful that slavery ever would have been abolished if Jefferson had never gained the prominence that he did.  This book and the others that follow show why we should continue to honor the public man even though his private side may have been wanting.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R2R92YADX7R90V	0316544647	736379315	Jefferson the President: Second Term, 1805-1809 (Jefferson and His Time, Vol. 5)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Difficulties	What can be said about this monument to Jefferson scholarship?  I am sure that somewhere in universities around the United States there are &quot;scholar squirrels who want to put down this invaluable resource in Jefferson studies.  It is always the way that mice attempt to gnaw at lions.  This is not a perfect work (and my remarks refer to all of the books in the series as a whole), there are somethings, namely Sally Hemmings references which are wrong and will not sit well with American 21st century mores.  There is the issue of slavery which was handled much differently 50 years ago than it is now.<br />Jefferson is not worthy of our interest because of Sally Hemmings and because he kept slaves.  Jefferson is great because of the Declaration of Independence and his fight for the rights of man.  While it may have been hypocritical to preach liberty and keep slaves, it is doubtful that slavery ever would have been abolished if Jefferson had never gained the prominence that he did.  This book and the others that follow show why we should continue to honor the public man even though his private side may have been wanting.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R382SD05697DC	0316544701	18770337	002: Jefferson and the Rights of Man - Volume II (Jefferson and His Time)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Jefferson in Paris	What can be said about this monument to Jefferson scholarship?  I am sure that somewhere in universities around the United States there are &quot;scholar squirrels who want to put down this invaluable resource in Jefferson studies.  It is always the way that mice attempt to gnaw at lions.  This is not a perfect work (and my remarks refer to all of the books in the series as a whole), there are somethings, namely Sally Hemmings references which are wrong and will not sit well with American 21st century mores.  There is the issue of slavery which was handled much differently 50 years ago than it is now.<br />Jefferson is not worthy of our interest because of Sally Hemmings and because he kept slaves.  Jefferson is great because of the Declaration of Independence and his fight for the rights of man.  While it may have been hypocritical to preach liberty and keep slaves, it is doubtful that slavery ever would have been abolished if Jefferson had never gained the prominence that he did.  This book and the others that follow show why we should continue to honor the public man even though his private side may have been wanting.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R2D8QMOFJ4Y6VM	0316544663	127362748	004: Jefferson the President: First Term 1801-1805 - Volume IV (Jefferson and His Time)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Jefferson in power	What can be said about this monument to Jefferson scholarship?  I am sure that somewhere in universities around the United States there are &quot;scholar squirrels who want to put down this invaluable resource in Jefferson studies.  It is always the way that mice attempt to gnaw at lions.  This is not a perfect work (and my remarks refer to all of the books in the series as a whole), there are somethings, namely Sally Hemmings references which are wrong and will not sit well with American 21st century mores.  There is the issue of slavery which was handled much differently 50 years ago than it is now.<br />Jefferson is not worthy of our interest because of Sally Hemmings and because he kept slaves.  Jefferson is great because of the Declaration of Independence and his fight for the rights of man.  While it may have been hypocritical to preach liberty and keep slaves, it is doubtful that slavery ever would have been abolished if Jefferson had never gained the prominence that he did.  This book and the others that follow show why we should continue to honor the public man even though his private side may have been wanting.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R1W57NNWWBOX3M	0316544744	335675388	Jefferson the Virginian (Jefferson and His Time, Vol. 1)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	One of the hallmarks of American scholarship	What can be said about this monument to Jefferson scholarship?  I am sure that somewhere in universities around the United States there are &quot;scholar squirrels who want to put down this invaluable resource in Jefferson studies.  It is always the way that mice attempt to gnaw at lions.  This is not a perfect work (and my remarks refer to all of the books in the series as a whole), there are somethings, namely Sally Hemmings references which are wrong and will not sit well with American 21st century mores.  There is the issue of slavery which was handled much differently 50 years ago than it is now.<br />Jefferson is not worthy of our interest because of Sally Hemmings and because he kept slaves.  Jefferson is great because of the Declaration of Independence and his fight for the rights of man.  While it may have been hypocritical to preach liberty and keep slaves, it is doubtful that slavery ever would have been abolished if Jefferson had never gained the prominence that he did.  This book and the others that follow show why we should continue to honor the public man even though his private side may have been wanting.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R3PJOGDDKS6L9B	0805057838	717339283	Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Insightful thoughts on Russian culture	I first learned about this book from a review in the Guardian in which the author was convinced that this sort of thinking about national culture was one of the many stops on the road to ethnic cleansing, what a lot of tommyrot. Of course I had to read this book for myself.<br />I thought, do we really need another book on Russian culture? Didn't Professor Billington have the final word on this in \\"The Icon and The Axe?\\" Then there was W. Bruce Lincoln's work. Is there anything really new that Orlando Figes could hope to add?<br />I am happy to report that there is. I am very pleased to recommend this book and am thrilled that Figes was not put off from this worthy achievement. The point of departure for this book is \\"the generation of 1812,\\" a landmark generation and one which many who have read \\"War and Peace feel they know closely. I suppose my love for this book made me an easy sceptic to convince. I think that Figes breaks new ground with this work and it will in some respects supersede all of the other works (with the exception of \\"War and Peace\\") in many important respects.  Despite my enthusiasm, I think the book has two shortcomings.  The first is that the development of a uniquely Russian culture came about after the 1812 invasion. This rise in the development of a national culture was not limited to Russia, but included nearly every place Napoleon conquered.  I would have enjoyed a comparison.  Also, why is it that all cultural histories of Russia are unable to advance  beyond 1960?  There are studies of Soviet popular culture that go into the 1990s, what about something that deals with high culture.  Russian culture did not end with Anna Akhmatova or Nabokov, or Stravinsky.  There are many stories worth exploring here. But these weaknesses should not discourage reading this book.  If you are interested in learning about the civilization and culture of Russia, there are few better places to begin or continue than this marvelous work.	2002-12-25
US	48415631	R33YXFD28BRPWD	0195030974	229805483	Strategies of Containment: A Critical Appraisal of Postwar American National Security (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Best work on post WWII foreign policy	Anyone interested in learning how US foreign policy is created should start with this important and well-written book.  Gaddis examines the post war search for ways in which the various administrations attempted to come up with a strategy to deal with the Soviet Union. Of course this was the primary center piece of foreign policy and it was the prism by which all other actions, all around the world, were viewed.<br />What is interesting to me is that each administration sought to embrace some new measure once it took office.  What Gaddis makes plain is that despite the rhetoric, what they ended up doing, without exception is to rely on the basic rules of containment established under Truman.  For all the talk about &quot;New Looks&quot; and &quot;Flexible Responses,&quot; &quot;Rolling Back Communism&quot; and &quot;Detente&quot; new presidential adminstrations were left to fall back on the methods and processes that were developed under Truman and refined somewhat under Eisenhower.	2002-12-16
US	48415631	R36YQQWBLILQ70	0801485959	82712682	The New Empire: An Interpretation of American Expansion 1860-1898 (Cornell Paperbacks)	Books	3	9	20	N	N	Foreign Policy as conspiracy	The unstated thesis of Walter Lefeber's book is that an expansionist foreign policy was a conspiracy that \\"the great and the good\\" fostered on an unsuspecting American public.  Apparently there was this rather unfortunate tendency that arose after the Civil War toward emprire building and that there was an almost \\"illuminati\\" type approach by the \\"wise men\\" of American foreign policy to see that an empire was obtained.<br />The problem with this line of thought is that it bears very little relation to the truth.  Empire building was not quite the new thing that Lefeber makes it out to be, rather these sentiments should be viewed as a continuation of manfest destiny. Once the US took the continent from the French and Spanish, eyes turned elsewhere.  This was not quite the 40 year process that Lefeber makes it out to be. It was much more complex than that.<br />The other problem is that Lefeber, with his conspiracy approach to foreign affairs, seems to miss that the people who were apparently working together to build this overseas empire, did not really like each other that much.  Theodore Roosevelt did not much care for the Adams brothers Henry and Brooks (though they were distantly related) who in turn thought him insane.<br />I cannot quarrel with Lefeber's scholarship and would recommend reading this book but with the proviso that at times he appears to be viewing American foreign policy as one vast conspiracy which simply is not true.	2002-12-16
US	48415631	R2IS8T0V0ZOCOK	067003083X	798168058	Joseph Smith  (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	A great life from Penguin by a great historian	Robert Remini is the best historian of the Jacksonian era. His previous efforts have focused on the political leaders, three volumes on Jackson himself, one on Clay, and one on Webster, another on Van Buren.  He has also examined whole hosts of smaller issues related to this period.  He is in full command of the subject matter related to this period.<br />Whoever had the idea of assigning Remini to write on Joseph Smith should get an award.  For he is a novel and interesting choice.  Usually books on religious leaders are written by people steeped in theory and dogma.  It is far better to have Smith's biography written by one who can place his ideas within their proper context.  Remini knows and understands the particulars of the &quot;Second Great Awakening&quot; and the various religious and intellectual trends that marked the period of roughly 1812-1840.  In doing so, he is able to explain much.<br />Remini shyes away from the question of whether or not Smith was was a prophet or con man and leaves the reader to make up his own mind about this, in doing so he steers a path between those who write books of praise about the Morman church's founders and those who criticize it.<br />This book is an outstanding addition to the Penguin Brief Lives series and yet another triumph for the foremost historian of age of Jackson.	2002-12-13
US	48415631	R2QIMV54SYZYHK	0684808161	125830825	Gone: The Last Days of The New Yorker	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Gone and a good thing too	I may be marking myself as the rankest order of philistine, but I never much cared for the old pre-Tina Brown New Yorker.  God knows I tried to like it and I often found pieces that I enjoyed, the stories of John Cheever, for example.  However, John Cheever did not produce a new story every week and neither did the outstanding authors nurtured in the New Yorker's unique environment.  No, at its worst the old New Yorker was under edited and frequently gave too much power to writers to go on for far too long about far too little to make much of an impact.  Quite frankly, it frequently bored me and the magazine needed to be shaken up, regardless of what old timers like the author of this book thinks.<br />I suppose since I do not agree with the basic premise of this work, I might be considered a poor reviewer.  There are several good things in this piece, I found the portraits of the figures of the New Yorker and its workings interesting. However, the writing is not as compelling or revealing as &quot;The Years with Ross&quot; or even &quot;Here at the New Yorker&quot; and &quot;Genius in Disguise&quot; (all of which I prefered, though the period and subject matter are vastly different).  I would agree with other writers that I think that the prose is underedited and could have benefited with the severe blue pencil.<br />It is interesting, for a magazine of its limited circulation and appeal, there is far more material about the workings of the New Yorker than any magazine. This is probably a measure of its influence. I hope that this magazine which is is so necessary to fostering new literary talent continues to evolve and hopefully prosper.	2002-12-07
US	48415631	R2SO03LC7MWPNG	067960118X	3653538	Middlemarch (Modern Library)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of the great works of Victorian literature	Virginia Woolf once said that &quot;Middlemarch&quot; was the first novel written for adults and she is correct.  With the exception of Fielding's &quot;Amelia&quot; this is one of the first books to marry off its heroine before the first 150 pages and to let the audience realize the consequences of not examining the real nature of one's future mate.<br />The book is set in the reform period and all of the main characters are intent of carrying out some measure of reform. Dorothea Brooke wants to make poverty as appealling as wealth, Dr. Lydgate wants to reform medical care to eliminate diseases with the latest methods. Dorthea's uncle Mr. Brooke wants to get elected to parliament on the &quot;reform ticket,&quot; Mr. Casaubon, who later marries Dorothea, wants to reform scholarship by producing something called &quot;The Key to the World's Mythologies.&quot;<br />It probably will not spoil the book by revealing that none of these reforms are realized.  All are wrecked by human nature and flaws in the characters themselves.  The only person who succeeds is Mary Garth who manages to reform Fred Vincey who begins as a rascal, bellowing for something called a marrow bone for breakfast and then transforms into a likable figure. This I think is key to what is afoot in Middlemarch.  Before society can really be reformed, human nature needs to be so regulated as to permit a more general reform of society. Some may dismiss this as a simplistic solution, but it is no more a simplistic approach than those theories that ignore human nature as they build castles in the air, just like the people of Middlemarch.<br />I must confess that I found this book slow going at first.  I think that the key to the book is that Eliot does not consider any particular character as the mouthpiece of her ideas (for a while I thought Dorothea was meant to be Eliot herself, but she is too great an artist to make this kind of mistake). No, this is Eliot's best book and rightly so. She does not cheat in the characterization which is one of the strengths of the book. This makes her work shine through nearly 150 years later.eat in the characterization which is one of the strengths of the book. This makes her work shine through nearly 150 years later.	2002-12-07
US	48415631	R1LIJYQ6FMO6UI	0743200233	38409771	Way Out There In the Blue: Reagan, Star Wars and the End of the Cold War	Books	4	12	28	N	N	Yes, he was &quot;way out there...&quot;	It is interesting to see how people have tried to make Reagan into the greatest president when he was in fact the luckiest.  Nothing really bad happened while he was president and the great events that did take place occurred when he was safely back in California.  Then his legion of spin doctors could either credit Reagan with all of the good things (fall of communism) and blame others (rising deficit, poor record on terrorism) on others.  Surely there must come a day in which the truth can be explored and this book is fine step in the right direction.  Here is the real Reagan, stage directions and all ready to defeat the tottering mess that the USSR actually was.  It is interesting that those who were most alarmed by communism actually gave it greater credit for resiliancy than was actually there.  But I suppose such a point might be considered inapproprate in the circles likely to despise this book, which destroys many of the myths of the Reagan presidency.  Three cheers for Frances Fitzgerald for performing such a noble act of public service.	2002-12-04
US	48415631	R2C6189SDXERHW	0192545035	976358997	Bleak House (Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	This house is not so bleak as you might think...	I must confess that \\"David Copperfield\\" is still my favorite Dickens novel.  However, I must also add that \\"Bleak House\\" comes close. Here we see Dickens the moralist at the height of his powers.  Although the courts and the law as it then exist are his targets, he also takes on professional reformers and the tradition bound aristocracy (whose day was drawing to a close when \\"Bleak House\\" was composed). Society is what Dickens is showing us, with all its failings. This is supposedly one of the \\"dark\\" novels, but I do not agree with that characterization.  While there is pathos (during the death of one particular character), this appears to be justified.<br />Of all the novels that Dickens has written, this has the most unusual structure.  He jumps back between third person narrative and first person (that person being Esther Summerson).<br />As usual it is not Dickens main characters that are the most memorable, but Dickens great comic creations.  Here I must confess to a certain anticipation whenever Mrs. Jelleby, always mindful of Africa, came on the scene.<br />If you like Dickens, I would suggest reading this after \\"David Copperfield\\" and \\"Great Expectations.\\"	2002-09-06
US	48415631	R1W554VL72JVIR	0679741860	510592307	Misia: The Life of Misia Sert	Books	5	16	16	N	N	What a life she led!	The list of Misia Sert's friends would read like a who's who of the cultural elite of Paris from the end of the Second Empire-World War II. Lautrec, Picasso, Coucteau, Chanel, the whole Ballet Russe crowd, and of course Proust. She was more a muse than creative genius herself, although she was supposed to have played the piano quite well, something we will never know for sure. This book is an enjoyable read and demonstrates just how wonderful life can be if one is good-looking, wealthy and well-connected.	2002-08-13
US	48415631	R1662MT3E6WUFW	0807842303	733176663	The Adams-Jefferson Letters: The Complete Correspondence Between Thomas Jefferson and Abigail and John Adams	Books	5	58	60	N	N	All passion spent, but wisdom remains...	When Jefferson and the Adamses retired from public life, the result was the basis for this wonderful little book.  Lester Cappon has produced one of the gems of scholarship on the autumn relationship of Adams and Jefferson.  Perhaps the greatest testament to the scholarship and skill of the editor is the fact that this book has remained in print continuously since 1959.  Though unlikely ever to score the impressive sales record of the recent biography of John Adams, this work is for those interested readers who want to learn more about the early days of the republic.  One warning, the participants were all products of the 18th century.  One should not be misled by the formality of the prose (any more than one should be misled by the gushy emotionalism of the victorian era).  Adams reveals himself (this was his justification for his life and beliefs) in a straight forward manner.  Jefferson, tells us more about himself by his personality by his lack of candor.	2002-08-12
US	48415631	R2635YL9NKDG2Q	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	36	48	N	N	Paul Johnson does not care much for Napoleon	This book is a good short life of Napoleon.  The problem that I have with it is that Johnson is convinced that Napoleon's real contribution to western civilization is to be the creator of the dictatorical state.  I think that this is reading far too much into things and that he is reaching here.  Most of the elements that Napoleon used to preserve himself in power (such as the secret police) had existed in previous versions under other regimes.  Roman emperors opened the mail of their citizens as did Louis XIV.  They also used propaganda to varying degrees of effectiveness.  This was an important part of kingship.  One gets the impression that Johnson's problem is not so much with Napoleon as it is the French Revolution in general.  He also appears to have set out to research a book on Napoleon and came away from the experience with a great deal of admiration for the Duke of Wellington (who was no bargin when he was prime minister later in the UK).  He does also tend to downplay Napoleon's military skill, insisting on crediting subordinates instead.  However, it is the mark of a good leader if he can attract good subordinates to realize his ambitions, something Johnson does not appreciate.  Napoleon's legacy was not nearly as black as Johnson portrays it, it might have been more useful to try for a more balanced approach.	2002-08-01
US	48415631	RKX93N2W6UJ3S	0375751548	674102062	In Search of Lost Time: Swann's Way, Vol. 1	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	For a long time I could not read Proust...	For a long time I could not bring myself to get through this book. The first chapter deals with sleep and going to sleep and this tended to lead to my mind wondering to other things. Unlike another French author (who is as like Proust as chalk is to cheese) Alexander Dumas, Proust does not attempt to fascinate with the first chapter. But once the novel gets underway, I could not put it down. The book has two main sections, one dealing with the denizens of Combray and the other with the title character, Swann and his love for the former prostitute Odette. The book functions as a series of very well etched vignettes complete with unforgettable characters and stories. Proust is a fan of Saint Simon's memoirs of the court of Versailles and uses these to comic effect throughout the book, particularly when describing the last days of an aged bed-ridden aunt, who he likens to the sun king in one comic section.<br />If it can be said to be about any one thing in particular, the book is a meditation of nature of love and human emotions. Proust is not anti-love, by any means, but he sees human relationships as multi-faceted and not always healthy or positive.<br />Reading this book has gotten me over my fear of lengthy exposure to Proust. I am eager to see further examples of his mastery of language and plot and look forward to eagerly reading the other books that make up A La Recherche du temps perdu.	2002-06-28
US	48415631	R2TI5Y9FED47CB	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Stop the madness	Along with the denizens of Barnum's museum and the tales of Edgar Allan Poe, Americans never tire of freak shows and horror stories.  One of the favorite horror stories on the right is the myth of the liberal media.  This myth works in the following manner, despite the fact that most of the media outlets are owned by large corporations who use these outlets to feather their nests (look at all the Disney tie ins on ABC for example), somehow the onair talent and writers apparently have free reign to determine content and pursue a political agenda as independent actors.  Even though this is at odds with the practices of any other profession, job or career in the world.<br />The myth of the liberal media came about in the days of Richard Nixon because Nixon could not fascinate like the Kennedys.  Rather than focus on the personal, Nixon saw this as a \\"vast left wing conspiracy\\" and such one of the treasured myths of late 20th century politics was born.  This lie has been a convenient one for the Republican party, which despite (what they would have one believe) an unending stream of left wing propaganda, they seem to have done remarkably well in politics (controlling 2 1/2 branches of government aint chicken feed).<br />Despite the complete lack of liberal voices (as opposed to Democratic party hacks who seem chosen for their stupidity) on radio and TV, the conspiracy industry, like old man river, just keeeps rolling along.  Ms. Coulter is only the latest to take up this well-worn flag and to fly it.  In doing so, she indulges in the hyperbolic language so common to right wing commentators who are paid from a variety of sources to sound indignent. Will we one day see a David Brock-style confession from her at some point when she has the falling out with the people that underwrite these efforts?  One can only wonder.<br />The people who really have a right to be annoyed are the electorate who are routinely fed pablum by both parties who find it easier to go negative than to actually explain positions to the electorate (these positions are all to often shaped not by philisophical stances, but by servicing constituents whose views frequently clash with the best interests of the nation and the best interests of the people who live in it).<br />If someone wishes to learn the real truth about American politics, don't read this book by Ann Coulter, pick up a copy of Democracy by Henry Adams.  It may be set in the 1870s, but the comings and goings of his senators and congressmen are all startlingly familar to anyone who reads the newspapers.han to actually explain positions to the electorate (these positions are all to often shaped not by philisophical stances, but by servicing constituents whose views frequently clash with the best interests of the nation and the best interests of the people who live in it). <br />If someone wishes to learn the real truth about American politics, don't read this book by Ann Coulter, pick up a copy of Democracy by Henry Adams.  It may be set in the 1870s, but the comings and goings of his senators and congressmen are all startlingly familar to anyone who reads the newspapers.	2002-06-28
US	48415631	R2K5TUKJSWEZBH	0140432159	479545350	Clarissa: Or the History of a Young Lady (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	10	21	N	N	Please someone, stop Clarissa from writing any more letters!	Never in tne history of English literature was there a more unappealing collection of characters than there are in this book. First there is the insipid Clarissa Harlow, who through the sort of circumstances that would not confuse a virginal Sunday school teacher (though Clarissa is more than a little perplexed) finds herself living in a brothel. Then there is Lovelace her suitor and ultimately her rapist.<br />Richardson wrote this novel as a cautionary tale, basically telling the women of Britain to urge them to mind their parents and to go through with any arranged marriages that may be pending (even if they are old sticks with bad breath who may soon die). If not the unsuspecting virgin of the 18th century may find oneself carried off by the local roue and living in a brothel with nothing to do but write an unending series of letters. In short, it is the sort of thing that the Taliban might encourage, assuming they would permit women to read. Hopefully, we have advanced beyond this stage in western civilization.	2002-06-14
US	48415631	R1C772XN0SU7HM	0140430091	694327261	The History of Tom Jones (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	It's not unusual...	Tom Jones is probably one of the greatest novels in all of English literature.  I imagine some might be put off by the length and by its designation as a classic (something which Mark Twain said was frequently praised and rarely read).  Tom Jones does not deserve to be ignored since it is a riotous rollercoster of a book filled with comic vignettes and blows against the self-satisfied and pompous.  It is a book that not only is instructional, but is considerate enough to give the reader a good time while doing so.<br />Though frequently termed an immoral book, Tom Jones holds up rather well in the early 21st century.  Even Fielding's comic characters seem to have a dimension often lacking in 18th and 19th century novels.  Fielding is a genius.	2002-06-14
US	48415631	R2EN4N6QILLQHA	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than the movie	I like Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins as much as anyone, but the book is far more satisfying than the movie.  For one, given the impressionist technique used to advance the narrative, learning the truth about Lord Darlington is a far more satisfying experience when reading the book than seeing the movie.  It is only then that the reader is alert to the fact that everything he had been told is warped by the hero's perspective-he cannot admit to us or himself that he has given his life to an unjust cause. Rather than spoil anything else, I will leave it at that.  Read the book, before seeing the movie, you will not be sorry.	2002-06-14
US	48415631	R1TRPWTXDVY20	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The rules of the game	Robert Caro's latest volume on the career of Lyndon Johnson is a fascinating warts and all study of the uses of parliamentary power.  Even though this is meant to be a picture of the Senate in the 1950s, I would imagine anyone wishing to understand the workings of this institution will find this book useful.  This is due to the subject of Caro's efforts, who undeerstand the workings of the senate better than probably anyone in its history.  This is a well-researched book, which along with Robert Dallek's two volumes, is likely to set the standard for LBJ biographies in the years to come.  Caro has done his homework and the portraits of Johnson, as well as other members of the senate are intelligent and well-researched.  Even though this book is about a president (this period will be covered in future books)it redresses an inbalance in the way Americans view their history, which is almost exclusively through the administrations of its presidents.  Books which deal with the career of senators, representatives, or federal judges, are not published to a sufficiently wide-enough audience.  As a consequence, the mainstream tends to view its achievements (and failings) as the responsibility of the executive, quite the opposite of how things actually work or how the founding fathers intend things to work.  Hopefully this book, which has been justly successful, will lead to a restoration in balance in this area.<br />Even though I gave this book a five star rating, I should alert any potential readers to a flaw that runs through all of the books that Caro has written.  This is a seeming unwillingness to concede what a dirty business politics is.  In all of the books, Caro makes comparisons with other people who encountered LBJ through the years and these comparisons reflect poorly on Johnson.  The problem is that none of the people that are cited went on to become Majority leader (and a powerful one at that) or President.  In discussing LBJ's views on matters such as race and what he was willing to do about this issue, a better comparison would be someone like FDR. Caro also should have consulted Kenneth Davis's books on FDR, particularly the one covering 1937-40 (even though they do not deal with the period in question-the bibliography includes books which do not deal with the 1950s-era Senate) Politics is the art of the possible after all.  I think that perhaps the one thing that is missing and would make my praise unqualified is to put LBJ's actions in the context of others seeking to get ahead in politics.  Some of the more extreme examples of LBJ's behavior might not seem so strange as a result.nd what he was willing to do about this issue, a better comparison would be someone like FDR. Caro also should have consulted Kenneth Davis's books on FDR, particularly the one covering 1937-40 (even though they do not deal with the period in question-the bibliography includes books which do not deal with the 1950s-era Senate) Politics is the art of the possible after all.  I think that perhaps the one thing that is missing and would make my praise unqualified is to put LBJ's actions in the context of others seeking to get ahead in politics.  Some of the more extreme examples of LBJ's behavior might not seem so strange as a result.	2002-06-10
US	48415631	R8D3GUSE7469I	0312085117	577341259	Isabella of Castile: The First Renaissance Queen	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Prescott revisited	Any potentional historian of Spain must contend with the work of William Prescott.  Though cutting edge historians of Spain dismiss Prescott as old fashioned (he wrote over 150 years ago), his work can still be read with pleasure and little awe (particulalry when one remembers that Prescott was blind when he was active as a historian.<br />Nancy Rubin makes use of Prescott and in a sense pours old wine in new bottles.  Her Isabella is more acceasable than Prescott's pius queen.  She also very ably puts Isabella in the proper perspective as the co-founder of modern Spain (at least from a geographic perspective).  Isabella's reputation rests on her funding of the voyages of Columbus, but as Ms. Rubin's book ably demonstrates, she was much more than that.  In a time when political couples (like FDR and Eleanor) are described as &quot;political partners&quot; Isabella and Ferdinand were true co-equals.  He fought the wars and she tended to the quartermaster functions.  No wonder they were a magnificent success.<br />If this book has one problem it is the rather ambiguous relationship between Isabella and the Jews and Moslems of Spain.  Though she made use of the former throughout her career (particularly early on), she later was a willing participant in their forcible conversion. Perhaps this subject requires a book of its own.	2002-05-20
US	48415631	R3V8OKVQY4LVGA	0300087187	685374103	Philip V of Spain: The King Who Reigned Twice	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	A new biography for a neglected king	Philip V is a king who is more often talked about than subjected to scholarly inquiry.  His role in the war of Spanish Succession and his subsequent career on the throne and his second marriage have been the subject of numerous rumors and speculation.  Henry Kamen's book rights a great wrong and restores Philip to the modern reader by subjecting his career and mental history to a modern sensibility.  Philip's probable bi-polar disorder expalins a great deal about Philip's behavior Kamen's book is not only useful to the reader interested in Spain, but in 17th century European history in general.	2002-05-20
US	48415631	R2UDKAC6HRIHQP	1853752916	548673120	The Bourbons of Naples: (1734-1825) (Prion Lost Treasures)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Back in Print at last	This book is a lost gem and now is thankfully back in print. The author, Harold Acton appears as Anthony Blanche in Waugh's BRIDESHEAD REVISTED (where he is portayed somewhat unfairly as a fop). The Bourbons of Naples, unlike the Bourbons of Spain or France, did not have the same magnificent reputation as their more famous cousins. The best of the lot, Charles, later Charles III, the king of Spain, left an significant mark on Naples, building the city's famous opera house (he frequently dozed off during performances when he could be bothered to attend. The rest of members of the family are fine targets for Acton's wit. And what a canvas he has to paint his scenes of regal decay.<br /><br />While Charles III was the ideal monarch, his successor (at least to this throne) was a ruler who spent most of his time hunting and fending off attempts by Napoleon to wrest his kingdom from him.  This did not bother him so much as it did his wife Maria Caroline.<br /><br />Like Louise of Prussia, or even Madame de Stael, Maria Caroline hated Napoleon (who in a strange twist of history became her grandson in law) and spent much of her life trying to come up with ineffective means of frustrating attempts at seizing Naples from the Bourbons.  Even had Napoleon not tried to evict the Bourbons from Naples (as he had from Spain), Maria Caroline saw him as the heir to the same French Revolution which had cut off the head of her favorite sister Marie Antoinette.<br /><br />Ambid the efforts of the queen, who was the won who wore the pants, to rule Naples and maintain the throne, and the kings persistent hunting excursions, a whole host of ministers and advisors come into the scope of the Bourbons.  Nelson, Lord and Lady Hamilton are supporting characters in this work.<br /><br />This is one of the best books in English on the Bourbons of Naples, but it is not without its defects. While Harold Acton is well-versed in the family, I would have liked more context, particularly on some of the short comings mentioned, but not fully explored. I was not sure why, after the chief minister (an ancestor of the author named Acton) was unable to bring the army up to respectable levels.  Funds are expended and this is looked upon with alarm by the nation's adversaries, but in the end this had little effect.  Even after reading this work, I am not sure why the Neapolitan army was so lousy.<br /><br />Still and all, it is great to see this book in print again, I am hoping the publisher is able to bring out the sequel which addresses how the Bourbons of Naples were finally defeated by their enemies the house of Savoy and were left behind in the unification of Italy.but not fully explored. I was not sure why, after the chief minister (an ancestor of the author named Acton) was unable to bring the army up to respectable levels.  Funds are expended and this is looked upon with alarm by the nation's adversaries, but in the end this had little effect.  Even after reading this work, I am not sure why the Neapolitan army was so lousy.      Still and all, it is great to see this book in print again, I am hoping the publisher is able to bring out the sequel which addresses how the Bourbons of Naples were finally defeated by their enemies the house of Savoy and were left behind in the unification of Italy.	2002-05-20
US	48415631	R15NHNZ628CUY1	0801861640	483145573	Brother to the Sun King: Philippe, Duke of Orleans	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Philippe we hardly knew you	This book sets out to right a great wrong.  The Duke of Orleans comes across as a petty and, at times, annoying figure in the Memoirs of St Simon.  Ms. Barker's work does much to make up for what St Simon has done in the past.  However, the work is flawed by Ms Barker's use of Freudian psychology to explain the Duke's homosexuality. This is probably the only real flaw in this book, but it is sufficient to undermine an unqualified recommendation.	2002-05-03
US	48415631	R3C1QNB1MIIBA0	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	2	6	15	N	N	More style than substance...	Why is it that we, the reading public, must endure what seems to be an ocean of books lauding the life of Ronald Reagan? True, memoirs such as this one will be useful, just as the negative books written by David Stockman and Donald Regan will also be of use to historians. Perhaps the purpose of this book and others like it is to somehow mitigate these past accounts and substitute a more glowing account. One gets the feeling, however, that there is at the same time more and less here than meets the eye. To begin with the former, the less is unbiased analysis of the Reagan legacy. Conservatives tend to use the word \\"biased\\" to describe things they don't like and \\"unbiased\\" to describe things they do like. Then under these definitions, this is an \\"unbiased\\" account of Reagan as not just a leader, but as a role model. However, this is probably not a good book to familiarize oneself with the particular's of Reagan's career anymore than one would want to read the works of Arthur Schlesinger to learn the unbiased facts about the Kennedy administration.<br />The more that I spoke of earlier appears to be that there are more of these out there. One cannot walk into a bookstore or login to [Amazon.com]without being greeted with a new pangynic to Reagan and his vision by some loyalist. I only hope that whenever it is that Reagan's papers are made available to scholars that the facts will bear out this rosey view.	2002-04-04
US	48415631	RLLNZ7A8PS15	0521437741	954958298	The Sicilian Vespers: A History of the Mediterranean World in the Later Thirteenth Century (Canto)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Byzantine diplomacy was the best in the world...	Sir Steven Runciman was one of the leading scholars of the Middle Ages.  He also had a profound understanding of diplomacy and warfare.  He is not only the author of this book, but also several books on the Crusades and Byzantium.  However, this I feel is his best book.  First of all it is a wonderful story.  This is how the Byzantine empire managed with no army, no navy, very little money, but with a great deal of diplomacy and intelligence to prevent a planned invasion from the mightiest power in 100 years.  This book should be required reading for all statesmen, would be statesmen, and military planners.  Runciman describes here how things can go wrong regardless of ability, manpower, and money when one is faced with a very clever foe.	2002-02-14
US	48415631	R2EBED2OY0XCOH	0393097854	917992955	Louis XIV	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The best of any of the biographies of the Sun King	Louis XIV is one of those figures of history who attract a variety of biographers and who can blame them?  He was king at 5 years, set France on the road to being the leading power in Europe, built Versailles, waged war against the &quot;Grand Alliance&quot; (led by Winston Churchill's ancestor) and died following the deaths of most of his family.  Two contemporaries, his sister-in-law, the Duchess of Orleans and the Duc de Saint Simon wrote extensively about what it was like to live within the orbit of the sun king.  The gossip-packed writings of both have served to create cottage industry (at least in the UK and America) in which Louis XIV is remembered as a great figure, with a great story.  However, few dwell on any of Louis's achievements (other than the construction of Versailles).<br />This is what sets Professor Wolf's book apart from the others, for it is Louis the soldier, not Louis the lover that is explored  here. If one wants to understand the workings of 17th and 18th century France and indeed Europe, one can not do better than this outstanding book.  Unfortunately, this book is not widely available and this is tragic, since it is one of the best works of scholarship in the 20th century.  I would recommend, if one is seeking to understand the dynamics of France and Louis (and the two were much the same during the period in question), to seek out a second hand version of this book.  While the text can at times be demanding, it is well worth the effort.	2002-01-17
US	48415631	ROK1PC7B6DI4A	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Mysteries Revealed	This is the first book by Michael Chabon and in many ways it addresses some of the themes covered in some of his later works. The perfect time to read this book is following the end of one's formal education and the beginning of life in &quot;the real world&quot; since this is the basic outline of the plot.  However, this is not just a coming of age book, it is a coming of experience book, filled with unforgettable characters and situations.  What is particularly pleasing is that Chabon's later work has fulfilled much of the promise indicated by this novel.  In many ways the themes explored herein are more fully developed in some of the later the work of the more mature writer.	2002-01-17
US	48415631	R2DXBXDVGKGCS2	0316773433	266109275	The Age of Jackson (Back Bay Books (Series))	Books	2	72	96	N	N	I don't care what people think...	This book is one of the worst works ever written on Andrew Jackson.  My main problem is that the author seems to want to believe that the Democratic Party has basically been around in much the same form as it was during the New Deal.  FDR may have been the savior of America in the 1930s, but Andrew Jackson was his prophet.  This just is not true (Schlesinger also attempts to establish the kinship between the two in reverse in his three volumes on Roosevelt as well, but not in the same degree as he does here).<br />The only real eternal verities in American History are the ones originally represented by Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson at the establishment of the US.  Simplified to their essence these are a belief in a strong federal government (Hamilton) or a weak one (Jefferson), a desire for wide spread equality (Jefferson) or confidence in the rich and well-born (Hamilton).  Positions on these matters change throughout the extent of US history.  There is no continuity between either of the two parties.  Schelesinger's primary failing is not to recognize this.<br /><br />Jackson and Roosevelt may have shared a basic vague sense of  equality among the populace, but there the similarity ends. Each probably had a radically different view as to what peoples constituted the American nation. Words like &quot;democracy&quot; also changed over time in the 100 years that separate the age of Jackson with that of Roosevelt.<br />The biggest difference Roosevelt's notions of what government should and should not do would have been an anathema to Jackson.  Jackson, who came into office determined to thwart John Q. Adams and Henry Clay's ideas of the federal government funding &quot;internal improvements,&quot;  would have been appalled by the New Deal.  Jackson hated the idea that the federal government was funding roads and canals, the WPA and PWA would have sent a shiver down his spine.  Roosevelt and Jackson had to radically differing views as to the role of the federal government.  Arguments for any kinship between the two break down when one compares and contrasts their respective goals and visions.  Jackson has more in common with Ronald Reagan than he did with FDR.<br />Another shortcoming in this book is its coverage of Jackson and the Indians.  Were he to live in our own time, Jackson would be the most appalling racist and a large measure of his prejudice was focused against indians. While a number of other people did share Jackson's views, there were also those who did not and were appalled by the forced removal of indians from their property in Georgia for the discovery of gold there.  Jackson did love the people, particularly if they were white and land speculators. Indians were not part of his calculation.<br />While Jackson is an interesting and important president, this is not the first book I would recommend.  More useful is Robert Remini's three volumes on Jackson which is better at putting Jackson in the proper context.l government.  Arguments for any kinship between the two break down when one compares and contrasts their respective goals and visions.  Jackson has more in common with Ronald Reagan than he did with FDR.<br />Another shortcoming in this book is its coverage of Jackson and the Indians.  Were he to live in our own time, Jackson would be the most appalling racist and a large measure of his prejudice was focused against indians. While a number of other people did share Jackson's views, there were also those who did not and were appalled by the forced removal of indians from their property in Georgia for the discovery of gold there.  Jackson did love the people, particularly if they were white and land speculators. Indians were not part of his calculation. <br />While Jackson is an interesting and important president, this is not the first book I would recommend.  More useful is Robert Remini's three volumes on Jackson which is better at putting Jackson in the proper context.	2002-01-16
US	48415631	R3Q9EFLC0ZSQSQ	014044257X	978555038	Philosophical Dictionary (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	No home should be without it...	While many claim that Candide is Voltaire's masterpiece, I prefer this collection of essays that are arranged as a dictionary.  Reading this book is like sitting in an elegant 18th century salon and listening to one of the great minds of the age declaim on a variety of subjects, both ancient and modern.  While Voltaire will occasionally bend scholarship to make a point, he does it so well and with such wit and style that the things that he gets wrong really don't matter.  If you were shipwrecked on a desert island, this would probably be one of the books that you should have packed before leaving.	2002-01-10
US	48415631	R20Q1PNNFQEX0K	0385501544	415654220	The Last Empire: Essays 1992-2000	Books	2	12	22	N	N	Not his best	As a longtime fan of Gore Vidal I was disappointed in this latest work of his.  I have read most of his work in recent times and have even given his books as gifts to friends, but this latest effort is not up to Vidal's usual high standard.  The literary essays are fine and in several instances wonderful.  However in the political essays there was a sameness about them collectively that seemed to render them shrill and unreadable.  It is not the content that I object to, merely the repetition. There is only on essay on politics in this volume and Vidal has repackaged it several times, reheating and serving it up again and again.	2002-01-04
US	48415631	R2KOJEPZBZ4Z15	0767908066	461274385	United States	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Successful &quot;essays&quot;	This is a remarkable collection of essays.  They cover literature, politics and history and show Vidal at his best.  My favorites include his examination of the Kennedy Family (entitled The Holy Family) which though dated still shows the importance of showmanship be it the construction of a religion or a political dynasty.  Vidal also looks at General Grant and surveys the American scene.  Another gem is his examination of the books on the New York Times Best Seller list in the early seventies and what they tell us about American tastes and the declining craft of the writen word (Vidal believes it to be largely cinematic). There really are too many topics to cover properly in only 1,000.  All of the essays are stimulating and thought provoking whether one agrees with the ideas expressed or not. I urge anyone who enjoys reading well-written prose to get this fascinating volume and discover the joys within its covers.	2002-01-04
US	48415631	RZCHPUP1GTNHG	0064301486	679645483	Michelangelo (Icon Editions)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Great book on a great artist	There is probably no greater art historian in the second half of the 20th century than Howard Hibbard and this book is one of his best. Professor Hibbard, who has also written books on Caravaggio and a study of Poussin turns his attention to Michelanglo. This is not a rehash of The Agony and Ecstasy, Professor Hibbard's interest is in the work and the artist and not a study of the outward events of this great artist's life.  I found Professor Hibbord's criticism insightful and interesting. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in the renaissance.	2001-08-03
US	48415631	RN959V3N59ZNV	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The Devil goes down to Moscow	Few books have had as interesting a history as has THE MASTER AND MARGARITA.  originally,written &quot;for the upper drawer&quot; this book's existance owes a great deal to the tenacity of Bulgakov's widow who kept the manuscript safely hidden for many years until it could be published in the USSR in the 1960s.  But even then certain things were not allowed to make their way into print, nudity and oblique references to the terror that gnawed at the Soviet Union during the 1930's were deleted.  two previous translations were carried out.  One based on the censored Soviet text and the other based on the text as Bulgakov intended it.  This, the third translation combines the best elements of both, being at the same time reaqdable and complete.<br />This may make The Master and Margarita sound rather dull indeed. However, rarely has a wittier and at the same time more profound book come out of Russia.  The book follows the adventures of the Devil and his mihions as they cause havoc on Stalinist Russia, visiting destruction upon the petty bureaucrats who were having such a profound effect on Russia.  These antics are a funny as anything ever attempted by the Marx Brothers.  But this book also features the love story between the Master and Margarita who like the principle characters of Dickens are often pushed off center stage by Bulgakov's demons.  There is also an account of the last days of Christ (or is it?.  Though an enjoyable read, in the final estimation, this is a profoud meditation on the nature of good and evil.	2001-08-03
US	48415631	R294K3NNL275UX	1557283885	492515211	Everything to Gain: Making the Most of the Rest of Your Life	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Nothing to gain...	Despite the fact that this nearly broke up their marriage, this book is not what I hoped for when I picked it up and began reading. I missed the old Mrs Carter who had a wry story about her life on the campaign trail. I will never forget the many adventures that she detailed in \\"First Lady from Plains\\" which is a superior book in every way. The time she was trapped in bathroom stall and had to crawl out of it. Then there was the time when she had to cut her way out when trapped in a car by her seatbelt. Funny stuff and real human interest. If bizarre things can happen to the first lady of the land the can happen to anyone, can't they? The book I wanted to read was a kind of sequel to the masterful \\"First Lady from Plains.\\" This clearly is not that book, though I hope Mrs. Carter will consider writing it one day real soon.	2001-07-08
US	48415631	R1R90NZBJEHUS	0064301281	92272908	Caravaggio (Icon Editions)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A Great Book for a Great Artist	Caravaggio is one of the greatest artists of the 17th century.  In a very brief period of time he managed to exert a influence over all of European painting.<br />Caravaggio was the original bad boy of the art world. He was willing to use well known prostitutes as models when portraying the Virgin Mary or to show saints with dirty feet.  This offended authorities in Baroque Rome and Caravaggio was often a trial to his patrons. During the majority of his active career he was on the lam fleeing from a murder charge. He burst on the Roman art scene during the height of its influence and spent his last days in Malta in the company of the knights.<br />Although Caravaggio's influence was immense immediately after his death where his masterful use of light and shadow was immitated by countless lesser artists.  For a number of years Caravaggio's reputation declined. Raphael's influence dominated academic art and Caravaggio's relatively harsh realism was in disfavor.  It was only in the 1950's when a major evaluation occurred.<br />This book by Howard Hibbard is probably the first of these modern reevaluations of Caravaggio and it is still one of the best. Professor Hibbard is one of the country's leading art historians and he brings considerable scholarship to his study of Caravaggio's work. Although there are plenty of other books on Caravaggio, I think that this book is still the best of lot in terms of understanding Caravaggio's art (his life was sufficiently messy and his sexuality ambiguous to spur the mills of contemporary scholarship for many years). Professor Hibbard's writing is sufficiently free from academic claptrap to make it an invaluable guide to both the specialist and the novice.	2001-06-27
US	48415631	RTA60IKGUOIP1	014044405X	954098481	Selected Letters (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Letters from a fascinating woman	One of the great defining moments of 17th century French literature was when Madame de Sevigne's daughter left Paris with her new husband for a life in the provinces.  Always the doting mother, Madame de Sevigne began one of the great correspondences in history.  The de Sevigne's were important enough to be close to the center of events during the reign of Louis XIV.  This status allowed Madame de Sevigne to provide an invaluable record of the days events.  But this is not the only reason to read these fascinating letters.  Madame de Sevigne was an astute observer of the contemporary scene.  She was also great friends with many of the leading cultural figures. These letters show not only the political machinations (Madame de Seigne was once courted by Louis XIV's finance minister Fouquet), but the very vibrant literary and theatrical scene.  Anyone wishing to know what day-to-day life was like for the well-to-do in 17th century France should look no further than this book.	2001-06-27
US	48415631	R12M9SPH0PZFF7	0452009421	254930908	Democracy: An American Novel (Meridian)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Things have not changed that much in over 120 years	Anyone wishing to understand democracy in America might skip that more famous book by that name and take up this novel by Henry Adams instead. Here the reader learns how politics really works and it is not pretty. In this work, Adams shows the dark underside of democracy. Adams was critical of the politics of his age and with reason. It was until now the most openly corrupt era in American history. There is a memorable scene in which the hopes and dreams of the American Revolution and founding fathers, as personified by the ruins of Mt Vernon are constrasted by the book's various characters on the make. It is no wonder that the word \\"democracy\\" is used rather ironically throughout this book.<br />This book had an interesting history. It is a roman a clef and certain people, notably James Blaine (one time corrupt congressman, corrupt senator and corrupt presidential contender) were reportedly outraged by the rather unflattering portrayal. To prevent libel suits, as well as the more damaging social slights, Adams did not disclose he had written it. As one of the leading historians of the day, he probably did not wish to be associated with something as frivilous as a novel. He and his friends did have fun, baiting a curious reading public by periodically throwing out all sorts of red herrings to divert suspicion from Adams.	2000-12-13
US	48415631	R3CC35FUCMPKRC	0674947517	313508880	The Warrior and the Priest: Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Well-reason parallel lives	This is a great work of scholarship dealing with two of the most important figures of the early 20th century. Cooper is able to bring out the differences in the approaches that both men had in setting the US political agenda in the early 20th century. Cooper is always a great treat to read. I must say that the title is somewhat interesting. When looking at Roosevelt or Wilson who is in fact the warrior and who the priest?	2000-12-12
