US	48420158	RBWRANKTNPEMV	0743454502	409444903	Second Glance: A Novel (Picoult, Jodi)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Slow Start, Great Finish	It took me nearly 200 pages to really get into this book, and if I didn't have faith that Jodi Picoult would take the story somewhere I might have given up. It begins with a lot of characters, many different stories, and a seeming lack of direction. However, she manages to tie all of the characters and plots together beautifully in a compelling and unique story.<br />Although the last couple of Jodi Picoult's books have been let downs to me, this one lived up to my somewhat lowered expectations. Picoult delves into an unchartered territory of ghosts and Indians in Vermont, alternating from an unsolved mystery of the 1930's with present day Vermont. Despite somewhat predictable relationship dramas, the rest of this book, it's rich historical basis as well as compelling characters, make for a great read.	2003-06-11
US	48420158	R12VSBH9478W8R	0743454502	409444903	Second Glance: A Novel (Picoult, Jodi)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Slow Start, Great Finish	It took me nearly 200 pages to really get into this book, and if I didn't have faith that Jodi Picoult would take the story somewhere I might have given up. It begins with a lot of characters, many different stories, and a seeming lack of direction. However, she manages to tie all of the characters and plots together beautifully in a compelling and unique story.<br />Although the last couple of Jodi Picoult's books have been letdowns to me, this one lived up to my somewhat lowered expectations. Picoult delves into an unchartered territory of ghosts and Indians in Vermont, alternating from an unsolved mystery of the 1930's with present day Vermont. Despite somewhat predictable relationship dramas, the rest of this book, it's rich historical basis as well as compelling characters, make for a great read.	2003-06-11
US	48420158	R1NQ15BBN9FE5A	0515135062	818968546	Three Fates	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Twists, turns, and romance	Whenever I need a light, fun, fast paced, happily ending read I turn to Nora Roberts. Three Fates wasn't anything spectacular for me, but it was an entertaining book that I enjoyed reading. The characters were all interesting and although a bit formulary, their relationship with each other was compelling.<br />The story revolves around the Three Fates, three statues that are meant to be together, but at the beginning of the story, are in three different hands. Supposedly when together, the Fates have powers and a net worth that far exceeds that of each of them alone. <br />A group of six people, including a family of two Irish men and their sister, come together to find the Fates, restore them back together, and sell or display them as they belong. There is also an evil woman who is trying to do the same. There is a race to the finish, as well as some twists and turns thrown in. In Roberts typical fashion there are three love affairs thrown in (note six people on the search team, three men, three women), and a picture perfect end to the story.<br />I haven't read enough Roberts to compare this to others. However, I can say it is an interesting and captivating read. It isn't earth shattering or cerebral in any way, but it is an enjoyable read.	2003-05-12
US	48420158	R2CQONUOUCQM11	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent and complex	Tartt's Secret History is a compelling and thought provoking book. It delves into the lives of six classics students at a small New England liberal arts college. Each of the six is eccentric and intense, and each seems to be hiding from something. All of them have a \\"secret history.\\" <br />At the crux of this book is the murder of Bunny, one of the six students. Once plans are set to go through with this task, the characters follow their ringleader (Henry) and no one tries to stop the event that will change each of their lives forever. This book is about how one decision, one moment, can change a life forever.<br />I am not very knowledgeable of Greek classics, and know I probably missed a lot as a result, but regardless, this is a page turner of a novel. This is a dark and disturbing read, but the intense characters and the ability to make the reader think long after the book is over make it worthwhile. If you are in the mood to be captivated and at times breathless, read this book. It is like nothing you will ever read.	2003-04-25
US	48420158	R2YZ95SCBKNUZG	0802117066	890021926	The Zygote Chronicles	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Right On	Ms. Finnamore nailed it when she wrote Otherwise Engaged, and with Zygote Chronicles she's done it again. She takes events that most women go through and writes about them in a way that anyone can relate to. Whether you are planning to have a baby, have been pregnant or are pregnant, you have to read this book. <br />As you turn the pages you will see what you have to look forward to with pregnancy, and you will find yourself feeling reassured that someone else is going through exactly what you are. This author has a way of discussing pregnancy in a funny and genuine way. She makes you realize that you are not alone in what you are feeling in an honest, heartfelt and fun way. <br />If you are pregnant, plan to be pregnant, or have been pregnant, read this. You will laugh, cry, and experience the rollercoaster ride that being pregnant is. If you have friends in the same boat, buy this for them. It is the book all women with plans for childbirth must read. I cannot wait to see what Ms. Finnamore comes up with next!	2003-04-25
US	48420158	R3SYFWZGA77FFK	0375503765	817595796	Love Works Like This: Moving from One Kind of Life to Another	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Honest and Informative	I've enjoyed other works of Lauren Slater, and this was no exception. It takes courage to write about the experiences she's had emotionally. Especially when it involves being heartfelt and honest about the giant step of having a baby.<br />Anyone who is pregnant or plans to become pregnant should read this book regardless of whether or not you have a history with depression or other mental illnesses. Many of the feelings and emotions Ms. Slater expresses about having a baby are ones that many women have, but are not honest enough to express. Reading about her experiences and emotions authenticates just how serious a choice having a baby is, not just for someone with mental illness, but for every responsible couple.<br />This is a good, informative and honest piece of writing. I would recommend it highly to anyone who wants an emotional look at what it's like to be pregnant. Ms. Slater is an excellent writer in both her use of imagery and emotion.	2003-04-25
US	48420158	R2ZA6AT6IJSWEV	0743407083	107696729	Grand Avenue	Books	3	4	7	N	N	maybe 3.5 stars	I read this book after rave recommendations from an online book group and was very disappointed. Although the four \\"grand dames\\" were somewhat interesting, somewhat well developed characters, I found their stories and the book as a whole depressing.<br />This is the story of four women who develop a close friendship. From there, it becomes very cliche and formulary. One of them is abused, another goes through a divorce, another cheats on her husband and the other gets a degree, becomes a career woman, and is sexually harassed. Talk about drama. <br />On top of that, we learn from the start that two of the women die, one of them tragically. Although there is a murder mystery tied into the story, it seems unrealistic and highly contrived. In the end, the relationship between these women seems a bit overdrawn and fake too.<br />I can see how this book would appeal to some people, but for me, it was a waste of time. I prefer stories that have better developed characters with deeper friendships and less forced drama. Not to mention less purposely disturbing.	2003-04-14
US	48420158	R1Q06E0QBFRU54	0380820293	543757976	Last Chance Saloon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	She does it again, and again, and again...	I just love reading a Marian Keyes book, and Last Chance Saloon was no exception. I've saved this book on my shelf for a while hoping that if I waited long enough, there would be another book by this talented author to replace it with. Well, it didn't happen and I was in the mood for an uplifting, spirited read, so I picked it up.<br />Ms. Keyes manages to create compelling, loving, genuine and fun characters with every book she writes. She writes about people that I would want for my own best friends. And she writes about people with characteristics and flaws we can all relate to.<br />This particular book is about a group of thirty year old friends living in London. There's Tara, who is in the wrong relationship because she'd rather be in something than alone; Katherine, who would rather be along than get hurt, and Liv, who is perpetually dating a married man who keeps promising to leave his wife. Then, there is Fintan, their gay, fun and eccentric friend who faces a health scare that changes all of their lives. <br />If you've never read a Marian Keyes, don't wait another minute, get them all! If you just haven't read this one yet, it's a must read. I envy anyone who has an unread book by this amazing author. My only complaint is that she doesn't write them fast enough! Although the \\"chic-lit\\" genre has gotten a bit overdone, Ms. Keyes is a writer you can count on for keeping it up to par.	2003-04-14
US	48420158	R1MGD7EF2JE2B0	0515131083	20771988	Plantation: A Lowcountry Tale	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Comfort Book	Having recently read Sullivan's Island, I was in the mood for another low country heartwarming story. Filled with likeable characters and interesting story lines, Plantation lived up to my expectations.<br />This story begins with Caroline Wimbly, a woman raised in South Carolina who ran away as early as she could to New York city. She thought she was better off for leaving her roots behind, but a call from her brother leads her back to Tall Pines, where she grew up. Her brother and his low life wife want to place their wealthy mom into a home so that they can take over her Plantation. Caroline discovers her mother better than she ever remembered her, and soon she finds her old life might suit her better than the one she's created.<br />Caroline goes home to New York, only to face the truth about her deeply disatisfying marriage. She returns with her son \\"home\\" to South Carolina to live in her childhood home. The bond developed between Caroline and her mother is heartwarming and strong, as is that with her brother. The family pulls together to pull him out of his bind.<br />Although this story has its share of sadness and unfortunate events, the family's ability to pull together and come through makes it more uplifting than depressing. Miss Lavinia, Caroline's mother, is a particularly spirited and enjoyable character. Her friends and helpers -- especially her estate manager Millie, a woman who claims special powers -- are also pertinant and effective people in the story. All of the characters are well developed, and help make this story one you will crawl right into.	2003-04-10
US	48420158	R3ML6WII7YRE5I	0312288352	287100403	The Tea Rose: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	10 stars if I could	This is one of the best books I have ever read, which, from someone who reads at least four books a month, is saying a lot. From the moment I started this book, everything else had to be put on hold; I simply couldn't put it down. <br />Set in the late 1800's in England, this book centers around the life of Fiona Finnegan, a 17 year old woman who faces more tragedy and adversity than any person should ever have to deal with. In the beginning, we are introduced to the love of her life, Joe. The relationship these two share is a pure and beautiful love that seems destined for great things. They have plans to marry and open a store together one day, until a painful event tears them apart.<br />We also meet Fiona's family, whom, aside from her baby brother, are tragically taken from her. Her father is about to become the leader of a Union party strike, and as a result, the evil of one man comes to fruition. The family has little money, with everyone pitching in, and when Fiona discovers the truth about what happens to her father, she is forced to flee England for America with her little brother.<br />The relationship between Joe and Fiona was one string that tugged me through the entire book, as well as the determination and tenacity of Fiona. The friendships and relationships Fiona developed after leaving London were amazing. She had such an impact on every life that she touched, the reader included. <br />Fiona takes herself from rags to riches, opening a chain of highly succesful shops. At the same time in London, Joe does the same. It is amazing as a reader to watch these two live their parallel lives, unaware of the longing they each share for one another. Of equal importance is other relationships Fiona has with men, all of which prove her love for Joe is real as is his for her. <br />There are so many parallel sub plots running through out this book -- too many to mention, too much that could be given away. From beginning to end, this book was one of my most satisfying reads ever. I thought I would be sad to see this book end, but it was tied up so beautifully that it felt complete.	2003-03-31
US	48420158	R1GFT0HG329GTF	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Interesting Story of Survival	I found this book to be loosely similar to the movie Cast Away and the book The Old Man and the Sea; add an Indian boy, his bengal tiger, and other miscellaneous animals. Having enjoyed both of those books for their symbolism and also for their general story lines, I very much liked Life of Pi too.<br />I picked up this book for a change of pace from my usual reads,  and aside from the previously made parallels, I got what I hoped for. This is a tale of adventure and survival that forces the reader to keep turning the pages to learn how Pi gets through another day at sea. On his way to Canada from India with his family and animals from his father's zoo, the ship Pi os on sinks, and he is the sole survivor.<br />Pi finds himself in a life boat with some intimidating life boat mates from the zoo. I particularly enjoyed the complex relationship between Pi and Richard Parker, a Bengal Tiger, and I was touched by the way they were ultimately separated. <br />The ending of this book is also compelling as Pi tries to tell his story to two men who want nothing more than to learn how the ship Pi started out on sank. Disbelieving of Pi's story despite his survival after 227 days at sea, Pi offers them alternative realities. All that really matters is the young man's resilience and the human will to survive.<br />The only part of this book that moved slowly for me was the beginning. Although religion can play into this story if the reader chooses for it to, I found part one to be disjointed and unnecessary. While it seemed important to the author to establish Pi's belief in several religions, most of it didn't seem entirely essential to the rest of the story. If I were to read it again, I might skip most of the beginning entirely.<br />This is a book I would recommend for a unique, fast paced adventure at sea. It is beautifully written and highly entertaining. It also makes you think differently about the complexities of the world, and about the every day conveniences we've come to take for granted.	2003-03-26
US	48420158	RUE1SPQVW5J8O	0425168697	365120378	Starting Out In the Evening	Books	5	52	54	N	N	beautiful story of life, love and passion	This book sat on my bookshelf for nearly five years, and I cannot believe I allowed it to. It is one of the most beautifully written books I've ever read. It is deep and sentimental in topic, and yet it reads like a fast paced novel. <br />The characters are intense and mulit-dimensional: Leonard Schiller, a seventy something writer who's life has been dedicated to his art; Ariel, his forty year old daughter in search of her life's meaning and someone to father a child; and Heather, a twenty something aspiring writer and critic who decides to write a master's thesis on Schiller's work.<br />The relationship of the two women will Schiller is incredibly portrayed, as with Ariel Schiller is a loving and nurturing man, and with Heather, his passions are reignited and she makes him feel young. Also interesting is the way Heather and Ariel portray Schiller, and also the way these two women change as Schiller's life circumstances change.<br />The parallels drawn between the three characters is fascinating, especially since each person is so different, and at such a different place in life. Ironically, even though each feels so different from the other, when the older two are compared to Heather in their memories, it seems they are more similar then they think. <br />At the end of this beautiful book, one cannot help but wonder what happens to the characters. Schiller's life goal at the end is to complete his final novel, and I so wish he were a real person so that I could read it. He is a beautiful charcter that brings memories of Morrie Schwartz from Tuesdays With Morrie. <br />If you are looking for a touching, moving, beautifully written book, don't wait any longer. Pick this book up and you will not put it down. Even when you are finished, the characters live on.	2003-03-14
US	48420158	RGQ8AH2ILIXQ0	0446605409	348227423	Plum Island	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast Paced, Suspenseful	This was my first Nelson DeMille, aside from having seen the movie The General's Daughter, and I will now look to his books when I want page turning suspense. <br />The protagonist in this book is John Corey, a NYC cop who is on leave because of gunshot wounds. He is at his uncle's beach house relaxing when a nearby friend calls to him for advicw in the mysterious murder of a local couple, who happen to be friends of John's. <br />The deceased couple worked on Plum Island, known for the conduction of biohazardous and chemical research. While most detectives believe the case is related to the Gordon's discovering and then trying to steal and sell a vaccine, Corey follows another idea, that of pirates and hidden treasures.<br />Paralleling information about both Plum Island and the legends of pirates makes this book an interesting read in addition to its level of suspense. Corey is an interesting character full of cynicism and wit. <br />My only complaint is that sometimes the book is a bit wordy, and could have been edited down a lot. Regardless, if you want a fast paced, good suspense novel, don't hesitate to pick up Plum Island. You won't put it down!	2003-03-10
US	48420158	R9J25DSHCPE3U	0515127221	241381231	Sullivan's Island (Lowcountry Tales)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Southern Story Telling	Sullivan's Island turned out to be everything I hoped it'd be and more. This book delivers it's readers straight to the South Carolina shore, both present day, and in the early 60's.<br />An intricately woven tale between Susan, the protagonist's present life and her upbringing on Sullivan's Island, this book not only delivers a beautifully wrought story, but it also delivers history. Susan grew up during a complicated time laced with prejudice and hate. Her father, despite his abusive and violent nature, died a victim of the civil rights movement. <br />The relationships in this book, each and every one of them, are so complex and beautiful that you truly get to know each character. From Susan and her siblings growing up, to her parents and her house keeper, to her present day relationships with her sister, daughter and soon-to-be ex-husband, readers will be drawn into a complex cast of characters that are not soon to be forgotten. <br />Susan turns up her past in order to determine what has led her relationship to its end. She learns a lot about herself as she mentally revisits her childhood role models and experiences. This enables her to accept her situation, and to figure out how to go on. In doing so she becomes stronger than ever. <br />I cannot wait to read more books by Dorothea Benton Frank. She delivers Southern storytelling at it's absolute best. Read this book and you will feel like you've lived another life as a Southern Geechee!	2003-03-03
US	48420158	R194NQHYHJ4N8V	0425185508	112076379	Picture Perfect	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Disappointment	I had been waiting to read this book for quite a while. I've read all of Picoult's others and have loved most of them. As this was one of her first books, I didn't know what to expect.<BR>The premise intrigued me, but after about 200 pages, I couldn't take any more. <br />The story dragged on and on, and I just got to the point where I couldn't even care about what happened to the characters anymore. While there were some interesting elements to the story, most of it was mundane and formulary.<br />Cassie, a renound archeologist falls for a movie star, Alex Rivers. She always questions how well she can ever trust an actor to ever be genuine, but regardless, she is swept into his spell. Warned against marrying him by a childhood friend who has died, but appears in her dreams, Cassie still goes with her feelings and marries Alex. <br />Of course all is not what it seems, and Alex is not the man Cassie thought he was. Which leads to how the book began, Cassie, wandering around with amnesia. Rescued by a police officer/American Indian, the book has its hero. <br />Not much more than a harlequin romance, this book is not worth the time. Try one of Picoult's others. Most of them are excellent books that will have you spellbound.	2003-02-17
US	48420158	R321EP2HGRU0KB	0743418190	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	4	58	65	N	N	Great Good In Bed Follow Up	Ms. Weiner's debut, Good In Bed, left me eager for her next book, and In Her Shoes did not dissapoint. ... from the moment I opened this book, I was hooked, captivated by real and compelling characters who are just like so many people you know. Including yourself. <br />Jennifer Weiner has a gift for creating characters who's greatest weaknesses are also what makes them so charming and likeable. In this particular book, the focus is on sisters, Maggie and Rose. Rose is the heavy set, intelligent, highly succesful one. Maggie, two years younger, is beautiful, outgoing, but not school or book smart (at first) and jumping from one job failure to the next.<br />The relationship between Maggie and Rose is at the crux of this book -- complex because of a difficult past shadowed by a family tragedy. Jealousy threatens to tear these two apart, particularly through an act of deceipt. However, these two sisters find out that the ties that bind them are stronger than anything threatening to tear them apart. <br />More than a Bridget Jones type story, this book will tug at your heartstrings, make you cheer for these likeable, perfectly imperfect girls all the way. Also parallel to the story is a Grandmother who links them to their past, and draws them toward a happy future. If you like happy endings, funny anecdotes, and great characters, this book is for you.	2003-02-03
US	48420158	R1WDU4LDUZEB8S	0525946896	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Miss the Old Follett	Although this book was entertaining, it lacked the page turning apeal of Follet's older works. Having read most of his books, this was a disappointment to me. The characters were not all that compelling, the storyline simplified one of the most complex times in World history, and the hero and heroine were a bit unbelievable.<br />I would suggest picking up any of Follett's earlier works before this one. Particularly On Wings of Eagles, Pillars of the Earth, Night Over Water, or A Dangerous Fortune. Those books had me turning the pages in a frenzy to find out what would happen next.<br />Hornet's Flight left me wanting -- wanting to know what happened to certain characters, while all the same not really caring much about any of them. It left me emotionless over a time period that was wrought with emotion and fear. I was glad to have finished this book -- albeit an entertaining read. But one that made me wonder when Follett will come out with a book that lives up to the standard he set for himself.	2003-01-23
US	48420158	R1HX9AZMCKF027	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	200	237	N	N	Incredible Historical Fiction	The Other Boleyn Girl, is hands down the best piece of historical fiction I have ever read. Upon reading it, I have been searching for other books of its genre and subject matter to delve into.<br />Gregory made these characters come alive for me, and made me understand how difficult it was to live as a woman in the early 1500s. Mary was especially well crafted. At 13 years old she went from her forced marriage to being thrown into the King's arms as his mistress. The inner struggles she fought between being true to herself and her heart, or true to her family were especially poignant.<br />Anne Boleyn, the most famous and tragically terminated sister, is portrayed in such a venomous way. She would stop at nothing to get what she wanted, and to rise in power and prestige. In the end it killed her. But her character, as portrayed by Ms. Gregory, was compelling and convincingly ugly, despite her beauty.<br />King Henry VIII also jumped off the pages. He came off as a spoiled brat, even as he grew older, who always got what he wanted. He and Anne were well matched for each other as no level of deceipt was too high. <br />Ms. Gregory was brilliant in choosing Mary as the narrator of this book. In doing so, the manipulative and scheming nature of Anne was able to come alive, as was the unorthodox lifestyle chosen by George Boleyn, the brother. The relationship amongst the Boleyn siblings, in and of itself, could fill a novel. The complexities of a family struggling to maintain individual identities, while working to bring the family up to the highest level of stature is intense.<br />This book is a page turner; it is incredibly compelling, deep and fascinating. I learned a great deal about the monarchy of Henry VII as well as life in the court during that time period. At the same time, I found myself incredibly entertained and saddened when I reached the last page. I cannot wait for more from Ms. Gregory.	2003-01-11
US	48420158	R2HWBRPLJT4B0A	0385499728	88958685	All Is Vanity: A Novel	Books	3	6	11	N	N	So Much Hype, So Little Reward	I could not wait to get my hands on this book. The premise sounded so compelling to me that I envisioned a page turner I would struggle to put down. Instead I found myself struggling to pick the book up.<br />The first 2/3 of the book talk about the struggling Margaret, who quit her English teaching job to become a novelist. Some of her struggles were interesting, as they were realistic issues that a new and inexperienced (unpublished) author might face. However, this self absorbed, one dimensional character never gained my sympathy, or my interest. How could someone so boring and completely self centered ever write a decent novel? <br />Her relationship with Letty might have been interesting, had it been believable. But instead it was a one way street -- Letty a good friend to Margaret, Margaret using her friend at first for a sounding board and reprieve, and then for so much more than that. Not to mention the often alluded to childhood friendship that did not seem much better.<br />Perhaps I will pick this book up again at some point, as it might have some literary ingenuity that I simply overlooked for lack of interest in the characters. It was the plot that drew me, but despite that, I couldn't get past the shallow people. I've yet to read Drowning Ruth. This interested me more, as I too, dream of authoring that great American Novel. Don't look to this book for inspiration -- maybe a reality check. Or a downer.	2002-12-26
US	48420158	R1NEYPHBWPMH9R	0375505148	177795746	Girls' Poker Night	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4.5 stars, amazing writing	Ruby Capote is an amazing character -- it seems all of the characters in the book connected to her realize how great she is. She is the only one who needs to find that out. And as the book progresses, Ruby comes more and more into her own, opening up her mind's eye to learning about who she is and what she wants for herself. <br />Ruby has an eccentric, fun group of friends who she gets together with weekly for a game of poker. During this, all of her friends talk about their lives, Ruby is always an active listener. Though her friends try to get her to reveal things about herself, she doesn't -- only the reader of this amazing book gets to see her thoughts and feelings. At least for a while. <br />This book delves into the psychology that made Ruby who she is --coming to terms with a father who committed suicide and a mother who left her father. It delves into her inability to commit to relationships for fear of being abandoned. And it also delves into her recovery from all of this. She realizes that if she doesn't take risks, and if she keeps running away, she will never evolve.<br />Of course there is a love interest in this book, and while it is important, there is so very much more. Ms. Davis is such a talented writer. She will have you laughing, crying, and rooting for Ruby all the way. She created a cast of funny, compassionate, quirky, neurotic and REAL characters you will wish were your best friends. I hope this author writes more books like this one.	2002-12-23
US	48420158	R3GU7MOMKCB0RQ	0515133973	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	4	3	3	N	N	fast, clever, compelling read	My only regret in reading this book is that I've never picked up a Nora Roberts before this one. That is going to change! This is not an earth shattering, life altering book by any measure.<br />But if you are looking for a quick, escapist type read that encompasses great characters, the backdrop of mysterious New Orleans, a love story that parallels a love story of over 100 years ago, and a ghost story, then this is your book. <br />I could not put this one down. The main character, Declan, and his love interest Lena were two of the greatest, most intelligent characters I've read in this type of book for a while. Their relationship is great to watch as it develops, and both of them have a sense of humor that will give you some laughs along the way. <br />If you want a fun, quick, easy but compelling read pick this one up. It will not disappoint. I will be getting some more of Ms. Roberts books ASAP! I was sorry to see this one end, but all the same, it was a satisfying ending.	2002-12-21
US	48420158	R3JGZ4OTF1YBUO	1573221880	768388033	Best Friends: A Novel	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Maybe 2.5 but...	This book was too long, and tried to cover too many years to ever engage me in either of the two women's lives. In reading the book jacket I was so excited to read this because I was imagining a page turner about best friends going through life together. <br />Well, it is that, but the characters are incredibly self centered, shallow, unlikeable people who never really grow up. Their view on the world is depressing, and the issues they face are predictable. The courses they chart could have been inspiring if presented differently, but all the two do is gripe about everything. And aside from each other, what does either really have? <br />It started off well, with the contrasts of the families and two college girls trying to find their footing. But the footing fell off the plank, and the girls just never developed. I didn't like them, and I could barely get through the book. For a good book on friendship or women during the 60s I would suggest Gloria by Keith Maillard, or any Oprah pick for that matter!	2002-12-16
US	48420158	R2NHZXM4NIA6EH	055338015X	614147121	Fifty Acres and a Poodle: A Story of Love, Livestock, and Finding Myself on a Farm	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Heart Warming Story	This was such a wonderful book, I am so glad that I found it. I am greatful to Ms. Laskas for sharing this story through her eloquent, humorous, highly relatable and at times heart pulling writing. <br />For anyone who ever had a dream, this is the book that will make you realize that anything is possible. Ms. Laskas' outlook on life is so refreshing. She writes about her life, her relationship with her boyfriend turn fiance and then husband Alex, and their animals with such passion and truth that it is impossible not to keep turning the pages like you would with a captivating work of fiction.<br />Her animals practically jump of the pages, and having grown up with poodles I could picture everything Marley did. The farm and all the people she and Alex befriend come to life as if they are your own neighbors, and the idea of owning a farm doesn't seem as foreign as it might have before. <br />I hope Ms. Laskas chooses to write more anecdotes and memoirs. Perhaps a part II of this story. Her words were all chosen perfectly, and the story was charming, fun, and vibrant. I highly recommend it for a refreshing look at life, love, family, and animals.	2002-11-27
US	48420158	R13XR8H2PO030O	0060090375	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not Keyes' Best	I LOVE Marian Keyes, she is one of my favorite authors of British &quot;chick literature.&quot; But this one did not live up to the legacy of the Walsh sisters for me. <br />Although Lucy was a likeable, &quot;real&quot; character, this story was a bit mundane and predictable. It is hard to finish a book when you've figured out the ending by page ten. Usually I find Keyes' books a fun filled journey with twists and turns along the way, not this time.<br />It had a lot of the same themes as the Walsh sister books -- a twenty something woman who cannot meet the right kind of guy, who has a sorted relationship with her mom, and has lots of interesting, fun friends. Usually this is enough to make me read the book regardless of its predictability. But this one was slow, a bit dry, and a bit too verbose. <br />It will definitely not stop me from buying all of the rest of her books as they appear -- and I eagerly await them. Especially more Walsh sister stories! This was one of Marian Keyes' first, and she has certainly come a long way. While Lucy is a character most women could relate to, the other characters as well as the story line just did not live up to her other work.	2002-11-16
US	48420158	R2WK2MXKLD8DXX	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Phew! What a Ride!	After reading Harlan Coben's Tell No One, I couldn't wait to get my hands on another of his works. The description of Gone For Good wasn't as intriguing to me, but having heard it was as good if not better, I had to try it. I am so glad that I did!<br />This book had me on the edge of my seat trying to make connections and links between people, and to figure out what was going on! But Coben only relinquishes as much as he wants the reader to know (which makes the book even better), and to the last page, I was shocked by developments. <br />Nothing in this book is as it seems, and if you think you know someone -- have you ever got a surprise coming to you! The protagonist -- Will, and his enlightened Yoga instructor buddy Squares are amazingly well developed. This book is full of fascinating twists, turns, and secrets. Coben writes with a comedic flair, and the ability to create three dimensional characters, some of whom you wish were your best friends. I am already seeking out more books from this talented writer.	2002-11-13
US	48420158	R2823NPAGI88GC	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Why Did I Wait So Long?	I have had Pillars of the Earth in my pile of books to read for nearly ten years now. A big fan of Follett's work, this was one of the few I held off on because of the subject matter. I am not one to typically dive into historical novels dating back 1000 years, but this book grabbed me from the beginning and held me to the end. <br />This story covers many different themes, good vs. evil, church vs. state, love, war, poverty, wealth... and despite the time period, it is amazing how many ties can be drawn between conflicts that existed in the 1100s and today.<br />Follett never ceases to amaze me with the amount of research and hard work he puts into his novels. It is no wonder they come out so infrequently. And although this was one of his earlier works, it was also one of his best. There were some parts that were repetitive and could have been edited out, but over all it was one of the best books I've ever read. <br />The characters in this book are developed so well that you feel as if they exist in some parallel universe. From Phillip, a Prior at a Monestary who is dedicated to truth, honesty and his people, to the Evil William who wants nothing but revenge. And from Aliena, a strong, brilliant woman dedicated to carrying out the wishes of her father, an overhauled king, to Ellen -- the mother of Aliena's love -- who is a brilliant woman deemed an outcast for all the wrong reasons. Tom the builder, who envisions palaces that still would stand today if this book were as real as it seemed. To Jack, one of the most heroic characters to date. <br />How can anyone sum up nearly 1,000 pages of an amazing story spanning 100 years? How different and more simple the world was, yet how similar the core issues are to what we face now. Do yourself a favor, read this book.	2002-11-07
US	48420158	RG35GZ05B6BFT	1551668998	628566923	The Beach House	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beautiful Southern Story	The Beach House is a beautiful story of family, love, and reconnecting with one's past in order to move into a happy future. <br />Caretta Rutlidge left her South Carolina family and all its troubles behind when she was 18 years old. She moved to Chicago and worked her way high up the corporate ladder, never to enter into any meaningful relationships apart from her work. <br />Then, she gets a letter from her somewhat estranged mother pleading with her to come home. At the same time, she is layed off work and decides to go. This trip to the Beach House on a small Island off SC changes her life in ways she never imagined possible.<br />Lovie, her endearing and amazing mother, needs her more than she ever has. She wants to put to rest all of the family trauma from the past. Caretta found her father abusive and cruel, to his children and his wife, and Lovie begins to uncover the truth Caretta never could have seen as a child. <br />As her relationship with her mom becomes a loving and caring one, Caretta also meets a man who shows her what it feels to love. But will she have to go back to Chicago at some point to begin her life there all over again and leave this beautiful Summer behind?<br />There is also Toy Sooner, the young pregnant girl who is Lovie's live in helper/companion. Caretta bonds with her because she sees so much of her own self when she was 18. Toy's story also gets more intricate as the father of her child, an abusive musician, tries to reclaim her.<br />But of most significance is the story the Rutlidge family. Of Caretta and her reclamation of herself, of Lovie, who has so much to give and so much to teach, of Palmer, Caretta's brother who is turning into her father, and of the ties that make up a family. It shows us that not only can you go home again, in order to discover who you really are, you must.	2002-10-10
US	48420158	RI5J2PXV80O0A	1582431817	607572582	A Student of Weather	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Great Writing; okay story	I picked up this book after having it for a year on my shelf because my online book club chose it for a monthy pick. While I am glad I read it, I cannot say it is because it was a riveting, exciting novel.<br />What carried this book for me, and what caused me to stick with it even when the story line lagged was the writing. Ms. Hay is an amazingly talented writer who's talent for prose, particularly through the use of metaphore, is incredible. Ordinarily if a story doesn't captivate me, I put the book down, but not this time.<br />The main theme through out this book is unrequited love. For the main character of this book, Norma Joyce, that love is multi-faceted. It is familial love, romantic love, and self-love. All of which she chases through out the story. This book left me unfulfilled as far as the story went. Though well developed, none of the characters were appealing. The relationships amongst people, the lack of loyalty and devotion revolted me. But perhaps the authors intent, it is the writing itself that carried the book for me. <br />A great book club book as it lends itself to a great deal of discussion.	2002-09-26
US	48420158	RFZB5GE9WLSYJ	1582431817	607572582	A Student of Weather	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great Writing; okay story	I picked up this book after having it for a year on my shelf because my online book club chose it for a monthy pick. While I am glad I read it, I cannot say it is because it was a riveting, exciting novel.<br />What carried this book for me, and what caused me to stick with it even when the story line lagged was the writing. Ms. Hay is an amazingly talented writer who's talent for prose, particularly through the use of metaphore, is incredible. Ordinarily if a story doesn't captivate me, I put the book down, but not this time.<br />The main theme through out this book is unrequited love. For the main character of this book, Norma Joyce, that love is multi-faceted. It is familial love, romantic love, and self-love. All of which she chases through out the story. This book left me unfulfilled as far as the story went. Though well developed, none of the characters were appealing. The relationships amongst people, the lack of loyalty and devotion revolted me. But perhaps the authors intent, it is the writing itself that carried the book for me. <br />A great book club book as it lends itself to a great deal of discussion.	2002-09-26
US	48420158	R74IZZ642YANG	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Could Not Put This One Down	After watching my husband fly through this book without putting it down, I knew I had to read it. I am so glad that I did! If you are looking for a suspense thriller with compelling characters and a plot that thickens with every turned page, read this book.<br />First of all, the character development in this book was amazing. Even though most of the towns in this book were fictionalized, having grown up in Massachusetts, I could hear the accents as I read the dialogue. Additionally, I found myself going through such rollercoasters of feelings for each of the people in the story.<br />Primarily, this book is a murder mystery. It circles around three men who grew up together and were friends until an unspeakable incident pulled them apart. The three choose very different paths, one an ex-con who owns a convenience store, one a detective, and the other a middle class business man.<br />They are brought back together when they are older, two of them through marriage, and the third, because he is the detective investigating the murder of one of their daughters. I cannot say much more without giving it all away, but let me just say this book will leave your head spinning until the bitter end. One minute you will be rooting for someone, the next you will be convinced they are guilty of murder.<br />If you are in the mood for a cannot put down suspenseful book, this is it. From characters that jump of the page to finely woven plots that keep you turning the pages, this book will have you hooked.	2002-09-17
US	48420158	R1J2EH13184O14	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Urgh	I bought this book on CD because it had received so much acclaim this past Summer. My husband and I listened to it on a long drive and were screaming by the end for it to just end. the only reason I gave it two stars is that something, and I have no idea what, compelled us to listen until the end. Maybe it was the cost of the CD? <br />Regardless, we could not stand any of the characters and could not have cared less what happened to them or whether or not the alleged murder mystery was a murder or not? We kept waiting for something to happen, and to the bitter end, nothing interesting did. The best thing aside from that it did finally end, was the voice of the reader. He did a great job reading this otherwise unsatisfying story. <br />The relationships amongst the characters were one dimensional at best. The protagonist kept talking about his solitary lifestyle, and his disappointments in life and I could not comprehend how if all of the characters were similar, the reader was supposed to care what happened to them? If you want a dark, depressing, and unsatisfying read with a goose chase of a mystery that you wish would just end -- go for it. But you're better off with a Dennis Lehane, a Ken Follett, or Clive Cussler.	2002-09-17
US	48420158	R356IOM1XKISCQ	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Read This Book	I could not decide if I wanted to read this book when I first heard about it because of the subject matter. I thought surely the death of a young girl was too depressing, but after hearing so many raves about it, I succumbed and picked it up. <br />I am so glad I did. Narrated from heaven by Susie Salmon, a teen who was killed on her way home from school, this book casts an interesting and comforting perspective on what might happen to loved ones when they die. <br />Although you know immediately who the murderer is, it is riveting to watch as family, friends and authority try to piece together who could have committed the crime. At the same time, the reader is drawn into the difficult journey of a family piecing together their lives while dealing with the tragedy of such a loss. <br />This book has so many facets to it, and it pulls so many emotional chords. You will laugh and cry as Susie finds her place in heaven and accepts her departure from earth. This is a unique, touching story, one that will stay with its readers for a long time.	2002-09-17
US	48420158	R1V30VP9731CD5	0312283350	101164655	Nantucket Nights: A Novel	Books	5	63	68	N	N	Couldn't Put This One Down	After having loved Hilderbrand's first book, The Beach Club, I couldn't wait to get my hands on Nantucket Nights. This book did not dissapoint. Despite having fewer characters, fewer pages, and fewer parrallel stories, this book was a far more complex book then her first. Aside from that the two are completely different entities, for which Ms. Hilderbrand should be commended. Too often, authors get burdened by publisher deadlines and churn out formulary stories, but not her.<br />This is an intricately woven story of family, of friendship, and of our perceptions of the truth. It is the story of instincts and judgements, and of identity.<br />Kayla, the story's protagonist, is a complex woman who struggles with insecurity in her marriage, and insecurity with who she is. She identifies herself as a mother, a wife, and a friend until the story unravels and all of that comes into question.<br />This is the story of three unlike women who, for twenty years, get together one night of Labor Day weekend for a ritualistic midnight swim, truth telling and end of Summer celebratory night. Well, on the twentieth anniversary of this night the unspeakable happens and their friendship -- amongst so many other things -- becomes unravelled when one of the women disappears before sharing a dark secret.<br />As Kayla searches for the truth about that secret, she begins to learn things about her friends and her family that she never would have imagined. As the pages turn towards the end, the reader is drawn in and Kayla learns so much about perception versus reality. She learns about herself, her family and who she has to be in order to render the strength to move on. <br />This book is fantastic, and I cannot wait to read more by this talented author. If you want a fast but intelligent and interesting read that delves into the human psyche and relationships, pick up one of her books. You will be captivated.	2002-09-17
US	48420158	R3Q835CZF5RBR7	0767907809	834442453	Bookends: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not Green's best	I rushed to get this novel from Amazon.UK when I first heard about it. I have read all of Jane Green's other novels that are published in the USA and have loved them. Well, this one did not live up to my expectations.<br />As someone who's dream it is to open a book store, I was hoping that this book would be a light, tender read just like Green's others. I was expecting it to be primarily about two women opening up the store. But I found that this was just a small part of a much bigger, much less enjoyable story. The idea was top notch, but the follow through was mediocre at best.<br />The characters were all likeable, albeit not too deep aside from one catastrophic event that I will not give away. The plot (or plots) never developed for me, and I was left disatisfied in the end. I would love to read more from Jane Green, but hope that this was just one glitch in an otherwise perfect writing career.	2002-08-21
US	48420158	RMVYIKBSC8TX8	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Amazing story, unforgettable characters	This was a finely wrought, intricately woven book of small town life in modern times. Russo's ability to develop characters who come to life with each passing phrase is astounding. This man can write. I envy anyone who has been fortuitous enough to study under him, as surely he has mastered the art of writing. <br />The protagonist of this story, Miles, will stay with me for years, as will his daughter, father, and many of the other inhabitants of the blue collar town of Empire Falls. So many plots and sub-plots weaved throughout this amazing tale of ordinary life in a Maine town that at some times it was overwhelming. I found myself re-reading several chapters, not because I didn't understand, but more so because I didn't want to miss anything. <br />This is not a quick read, it is too complex to be. Russo takes something that on the surface, sounds simplistic, and turns it into a delicate and intense profile of the hearts, minds, complexities and lives of many unique people. <br />When you open this book you are truly leaving the world you inhabit, and entering the world of Empire Falls. A place that might otherwise be somewhere you'd drop in on your way to somewhere else will become your home. At least until you complete the book. And then you will feel a touch of sadness for the lives that touched yours for a while, and then were gone. <br />I recommend this book to anyone who cherishes fantastic writing, complex themes and plots, and a moving story line. I will not soon forget this book, or its people.	2002-08-06
US	48420158	R2XZHD8QWIOHHF	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Interesting concept	For some reason, this book really disturbed me. It took such a cynical look at marriage and relationships, and broached the fragility of identity and a person's ability to control and or forge it. <br />The couple at the center of this book is in in an unsatisfactory marriage whereby the man is always angry and cynical and the woman is miserably ensconced in a less than satisfying affair and wanting to get out of her marriage. That is, until the door is opened for her.<br />The man meets some street guy who has supernatural healing powers brought on by too many drugs, and suddenly has an epiphany. No longer angry and out to save the world as well as his marriage and relationships, his wife decides she likes him better as he was. <br />This book took on an interesting concept -- that of altruism, and of what would happen if one suddenly decided to be good? Of course, this book takes that to the extreme in all sorts of directions. Hornby somewhat carries it out with witty dialogue, but with some quirky and annoying characters.<br />Although Hornby is a great writer, and his other books are surefire hits, this one was painful for me. The subject matter bothered me and there was nothing refreshing or enjoyable about the ongoing cynicism. Not to mention the characters, all of whom were unlikeable. In fact, I put this book down after skimming the second half, and will not pick it up again. There was nothing positive to be gained from this book.	2002-07-24
US	48420158	RMFW77VBZUWKM	0066210712	764145308	The Apprentice Lover: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Eloquent and Exotic	This book is a must read for anyone who ever considered writing the great novel. The characters in this story are multi-dimentional people who will inhabit your thoughts whether the book is in hand or not.<br />Reminding me slightly of books that tackle the idea of eutopian societies, this takes place on the exotic Isle of Capri. It is, in short, the story of a budding writer who leaves behind his unfinished ivy league education for a Summer working as one of the great Rupert Grant's apprentices. An eccentric and impetuous being, Grant has quite an influence on all who are under his wing. His pompous behavior and eccentric manner make it obvious that his writing is his greatest attribute. <br />Primarily I interpreted this as a coming of age story. For me, it was the story of Alex Mussolini, a young man utterly at odds with his upbringing, harbouring mixed emotions about the untimely death of his brother during Vietnam, and the insatiable desire to become a writer. Alex faces many challenges while on the Isle of Capri, all of which will captivate the reader as would the greatest mystery. But this book is a mystery of the soul. For who is anyone, aside from how others see them? <br />For me, at the crux of this novel is the question of identity. But there is so much more. I will undoubtedly read this story again -- I hope, while visiting Capri someday. There is so much to this book, I cannot recommend it highly enough. And I will seek more by Jay Parini as his writing is truly incredible.	2002-07-21
US	48420158	R3UWQHS5YKG4GJ	0060008024	568824372	Angels	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Love those Walsh sisters	This book delivered all that I've come to expect from Marian Keyes, and more. I heard her read from this one on her author tour in the States and did not think she could possibly keep the momentum of the quirky Walsh sisters going. But has she ever!<br />This is the story of Margaret, the white sheep of the Walsh clan. Never having done anything wrong in her life, she suddenly leaves her husband (which was warranted) and takes of for LA to stay with her best friend. Considering herself single again, Margaret must re-examine herself, and forage an identity in her new life. Well, lets just say she goes through lots of explorations in determining who she is.<br />Funny, real and someone anyone can relate to (as I think all the Walsh girls are) Margaret learns so much about herself and people in the flashy world of Los Angeles. Of course family Walsh comes to LA for a visit providing us with lots of laughs as well. <br />The chapters shift between Margaret's past that led her to leave Garv (the husband) and the present. The relationship between Margaret and her best friend is developed beautifully -- and the way Marian creates life in LA is a riot!<br />I hope Marian Keyes continues to write about the Walsh girls, revisiting them in various stages of their lives. They are the most &quot;real&quot; and fun cast of characters I've encountered in fiction in a long time. I love these books and recommend them highly for a feel good, fun read.	2002-07-15
US	48420158	R351AY9EHP91KU	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Beautiful Love Story	I loved this book. It was incredibly moving, touching, and heartfelt. Jamie Sullivan is one of the most memorable, angelic characters I've read in a long time, and the story of the love between her and Landon will not leave my heart for a long time. <br />Nothing is more pure, innocent or beautiful then first love -- untouched by inner conflicts inflicted by past pains. The love that develops between Landon and Jamie is as pure and beautiful as love can be. <br />Jamie is a loving, caring, amazing girl. Despite her terminal illness, her perceptions of the world are filled with nothing but love and faith. Untouched by what others think of her, she is kind to everyone despite how they treat her.<br />Landon gets into typical teen age trouble and is forced to be in the school play as well as to carry out responsibilities that are a daily part of Jamie's life (volunteering and helping others). It is through these activities that these two people's lives cross, and are drawn to one another.<br />Jamie's affect on Landon is profound, and although at first his willingness to accept his feelings for her is hindered by his friends, he ultimately relents and falls for her. He emerges as a person who believes in himself, and even more so, who loves and cares for another human being with such undying strength and compassion.<br />Albeit predictable, this is a great book for teens to read who are struggling with identity and fitting in. There are lessons in this book for young and old alike, about love, faith, and compassion. And about believing in yourself.	2002-07-10
US	48420158	R2UKHN24O144J9	0380817683	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another Hit by Marian Keyes	I started this book with high expectations because Keyes fans all told me this was Marian's best. Well, I love all of her books equally even after this one, they are all simply fabulous. <br />This is the story of the middle Walsh sister Rachel's coming of age. In her mid-late twenties, and living in NYC with her best friend from Dublin, Rachel constantly struggles with how people perceive her. Insecure and immature, she uses drugs as a way to cope with everything, without realizing how much she uses them. <BR>The dichotomy between Rachel's development and her roommate's helps us see the magnitude of Rachel's drug problem. Brigit gets promotions and new jobs, where as Rachel parties, skips work, and is unfaithful and mean to her wonderful boyfriend simply because she is quite certain that even though she likes him, he is not cool enough. <br />Well, eventually she over doses and lands herself in a hospital. Despite her certainty that she does not have a problem, her parents take her to the Cloisters, a rehab center for various kinds of addicts. At first Rachel is angry at everyone for putting her in this place, but since she believes there will be stars and famous people there she accepts her fate. But when she realizes this is not a retreat for the stars, she has to succumb to the treatment and the realization that she does have a problem. Confronted by her boyfriend, her family and her best friend, she begins to see herself more clearly. Only then is she able to transform herself. <br />This is a wonderful and often times funny coming of age story. All of the Walsh sisters are a delight to read about, and Rachel is surely no exception. My favorite thing of all about Keyes, aside from excellent characters, great love stories, and consistent laughs, is that the endings leave you feeling satisfied and ready to move on to the next story Ms. Keyes presents us with. I already have Angels by my bedside.	2002-07-01
US	48420158	R262IVCU7FGMHT	0312979649	980795673	The Beach Club: A Novel	Books	4	58	60	N	N	Great Start to Summer	This book definitely exceeded my expectations. I bought it because Nantucket is one of my favorite places, and because it sounded like a great Summer read. Other then that, I was anticipating a less than quality quick and easy read. <br />Quick and easy it was, but that is because the writing and the characters drew me in from the first page, and didn't let me go until the very end. Ms. Hilderbrand is a talented writer who's works should not be overlooked as being too simplistic or soap opera like.<br />This book begins at the beginning of a Summer at The Beach Club, an exclusive hotel on Nantucket Island. The reader is introduced to the main characters right away, as well as a bit of their histories. All of them are on Nantucket for one reason or another related to who they are, and each reason is as compelling as the next. Each character is somehow related to the Beach Club.<br />This book delves into the inter-relationships between co-workers, lovers, rivals, parents and children, and so much more. It also opens a window onto one of the most beautiful, exclusive islands in the US. For anyone who has been to Nantucket or wants to go, this is a must read. From the smells, to the sounds and scenery, this book touches upon so much of the island's mystique.<br />I was sad to finish this well written, heartfelt story because there were so many characters who's lives were interesting enough to have encompassed their own novels. This book was a great pre-Summer read. I look forward to reading Nantucket Nights, Ms. Hildebrand's newest book.	2002-06-17
US	48420158	R2JN8YUOP1QD8F	0688173896	484762944	The Scandalous Summer of Sissy LeBlanc: A Novel	Books	3	6	9	N	N	good beach read	This is the story of Sissy LeBlanc, an unhappily married housewife and mother of three. Her relationship with her husband is less than satisfactory, and the reader can see immediately why. I was left wondering why on earth she ever married him in the first place. And so was she when her high school sweet heart appeared in her yard on a hot Summer day. <br />Parker, her high school love, was the one character I almost liked. He seemed to at least have some integrity and more virtue than the rest of the wacky cast. Of course he was also the only one who left the confines of small town life and explored the world. I have no idea why Sissy let him go in the first place.<br />While the ending is a bit awkward and is reached in a zany way, this book did deliver what the title promised. Scandal. And not just on the part of Sissy. It was a rollercoaster of craziness.<br />However, I found myself dragging when it came to picking up this book to read. I didn't feel a connection to any of the characters, and found them all so shallow and one dimensional that I didn't really care what ended up happening for them. It wasn't that they were developed poorly -- the author was too good. It was just that they were truly shallow, unlikeable people. I would never want them in my life.<br />Sissy was a fun character to follow, but not because she was likeable. More because the choices she made and the way she lived her life was one of those things that makes you want to cover your eyes, but yet you cannot. Her relationship with her kids was painful. But it was nice that despite her small town ideas she did not fall victim to the prejudices of some of her counterparts. <br />Albeit, if you want a light, fun, Southern Summer read -- check this one out. Dupres can write very well, and even though this wasn't a hit for me, I will definitely check out her next book.	2002-06-13
US	48420158	RKMTDXYUYOAF9	0385336187	700164567	Warning Signs	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Fast Paced Thrills	This was my first ever Stephen White book, and it will not be my last. White is a talented writer who intricately weaves psychology, suspense and a richly plotted story into one cannot put down book. <br />This story revolves around two high school aged kids plotting revenge on the justice system that has let them down. Alan Gregory, the psychologist and narrator, is brought in with the PD to help solve the murder mystery of the town's DA. His wife, just off maternity leave and also working for the DA, also gets involved in the investigation because the DA was her boss, and the prime suspect is a police chief in the town (Boulder.) There is so much more to it, but other reviewers also detail the story so I will not do so.<br />Suffice it to say that if you want an edge of your seat, psychological thriller this book is a great choice. It weaves in issues that are prevalent in today's society in an intelligent, not overly preachy and interesting way. This book raises interesting moral questions throughout -- that will spark some intellectual thinking about how our society operates when it comes to justice, crime and punishment. Do punishments fit the crimes? Is society too reactional and not proactive enough? <br />For a thought provoking book you will not be able to put down -- this is a sure fire hit...	2002-06-10
US	48420158	RO9C7TQRWGNDV	0060090367	962133592	Watermelon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	4.5 if I could	I would probably have given this book a five, but I read Sushi for Beginners, also by Keyes, right before Watermelon nad found it's writing to be a bit more tight and clean. I have heard Watermelon is one of her first works, and it is amazing debut if so! I was hooked from the first few pages.<br />I will not go into what the book is about because all one hundred and something reviews do so. <br />Claire, the protagonist, is a great character, someone I would love to be friends with. She is funny, intelligent, loyal, honest and witty. Her outlook on life is actually quite inspiring considering the relationship trauma she was put through. Her resiliency is amazing. I am hoping that Keyes either continues Claire's story at some points, or lets her readers know what has happened with her life in other books! <br />The men in Claire's life and her relationships as well as her new baby are the focal points of this book. Her maturity towards her baby is fantastic as she realizes despite her husband leaving her, the baby must come first. It is also fun to see Claire's inner battles as she experiences a new relationship. Her outlook is so healthy and fun! <br />Although this is a light, fluffy and fun read, it also manages to be deep and heartfelt. But Claire's sense of humor and wit manages to make the could-be-heavy scenarios less intense. This is a feel good novel that I would highly recommend. The Walsh family is a hoot, and I cannot wait to read more of Keyes books so that I can experience more of their zaniness and fun!<br />I plan to read all of Keyes books from this point onward, and will buy them in hardcover because I will not be able to wait for paperbacks! I might even have to go to Amazon.com.UK so I can get them sooner then they are released in the US.	2002-06-03
US	48420158	R3HHEHK943W0UX	0743418727	194962038	Perfect Match: A Novel	Books	3	53	63	N	N	Too similar to all the others	I have to preface this by saying that anyone who has not read many of Picoult's works might love this book. But having read almost all of her books the minute they were released, I was sorely disappointed by this one. <br />The writing, as always, is eloquent, gripping and excellent. However, this book follows the same sequence she has used in her past few books. And it has become too formulary for me. It is almost as if her editors are pressuring her to get the books out so she follows a similar style for all of them. And although each story is different, they read the same after a while. A plot develops at the beginning with a life changing event, there is a court case, and then a surprise at the end. <br />This particular book lost its appeal to me as soon as a Priest was drawn in to the mix. Having been prevalent in the news of late -- reading about church scandals is hardly something I wanted to do for pleasure. Perhaps that was a part of the problem. The subject is worn down. <br />That said, Picoult is amazingly talented, there is no doubt about it. And I will read all of her books that follow because I have faith that she will work originality back into her writing. The character development is fantastic, as is the dialogue and writing, but its the story lines that all develop similarly regardless of how different they initially seem.<br />Plain Truth, Keeping Faith, Harvesting the Heart and The Pact are four of my all time favorite books. And I cannot wait to add another of hers to that list.	2002-05-29
US	48420158	R1IGSM5AAK8NT2	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	4.5 stars	I typically read fiction and literature but I was in the mood for suspense and did this book ever deliver. It was not a typical mystery or thriller with no plot or point but to thrill. It was suspenseful, but there was so much more to it than that.<br />The protagonist, David, is developed so well that you feel like you are experiencing each twist and turn as he does. With every page, something new is uncovered and another emotion exposed. <br />David and his wife have been together since the second grade, and on the night of their anniversary, she is taken away from him. What appeared to be a murder by a cold blooded serial killer resurfaces eight years later when David receives mysterious e-mails from someone who knows things that only Elizabeth could have known. And suddenly David's world is again turned upside down.<br />Was the killer really who it was reported to have been or was it one of several other people who emerge as possible suspects? And could it possibly have been David or any of the people who he'd trusted his entire life? And why suddenly is the FBI involved? <br />David is an amazing, tenacious character who will stop at nothing to find out the truth. And the truths that emerge in this book will have you on the edge of your seat throughout. <BR>I highly recommend this book and was satisfied from start to finish. This is one I will pass on to friends and family, and I will also be looking for more books by Harlan Coben. He is an incredibly talented writer of quality suspense thrillers.	2002-05-28
US	48420158	R2AOCFFSYH0B6J	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun, Silly book 3.5 stars	This was a book I was not planning to read, but heard so many raves for it that curiosity got the best of me. <br />This is a fun, funny book about the trials and tribulations of a full fledged compulsive obsessive shopper! Becky Bloomwood, ironically a financial journalist for a money management magazine, cannot control her urge to shop! She NEEDS everything and her mind doesn't rest until she gets it.<br />Becky is a bit flighty, but she is also humorous, and has such an addictive way of looking at things and at rationalizing her spending. Her relationship with her friends, family, and would be male relationships are less than satisfying. She continues to take, take, take from her roommate without ever offering anything in return. And she wracks up insurmountable debt from cover to nearly cover, until she begins to turn the situation around. She finally gets passionate about something other than shopping, and that is what makes all the difference. She also wins the heart of her &quot;crush&quot; and that is where we are left.<br />This book is not deep, or even thick with a plot. It is just a lot of fun when you are in need of mindless, effortless entertainment. I am definitely going to read the sequel, but read these books in tandem with another book. That way, depending on my mood I have Becky Bloomwood's rollercoaster shopping/spending sprees to look forward to when I need a good laugh anf guaranteed fun.	2002-05-13
US	48420158	R3LJ0X4KR84J1R	0316780812	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Walk through History	Having read most of Shreve's works, this was one of my favorites. The main character of this story, rightfully named Honora, is a woman of class, demeanor and integrity. As always Shreve builds believable, strong characters who deal with a spectrum of human emotions and experiences. <br />This story is told through the eyes of five people, ranging in ages, classes and motives. Some are likeable, some not, all are inextricably linked by the trying times of the Great Depression. This is a quiet story of love, loss and of life's simple pleasures. Sea Glass is weaved throughout the story in a fascinating, intricate way. For sea glass holds history and depth to its simple colors and the ways it captures the light. This is the story of how five different people see and experience the same time -- much like sea glass can be seen in so many different ways depending on how you look at it.<br />The two women in this story are so different, yet so likeable and they show how in a time of depression, the most unlikely of people are drawn to each other. This is a deep, well crafted novel that is highly recommended.	2002-05-12
US	48420158	R2OTG051AXIHN3	0316355569	710045321	Swimming Sweet Arrow : A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Honestly written, compelling	This book was one I'd not heard of, but chose based on Amazon recommendations. I am so glad I did. The minute you open this book it is impossible not to be immersed in the harrowing stories of the main character of the book -- Vangie. A product of a lower class divorced couple, Vangie was not dealt the easiest or best cards in life. <br />The language in this book is incredibly explicit and does not hold back; anyone who cannot handle that should think about reading it. That said, the language is not just thrown in wrecklessly. It is used necessarily to convey the thoughts and the actions of the characters. <br />We see Vangie and her best friend from when they graduate high school and cannot wait to move out on their own with their boyfriends to what they go through when they enter the lives they imagined. However, June, Vangie's friend, takes a path that worries Vangie. A path of danger, and one that cannot end well.<br />Vangie's growth is what makes this book most compelling, for she is a complex woman with intelligent and thought provoking ideas despite her humble upbringing or the unfortunate life she chose of drugs and alcohol -- and in time she questions all the choices and decisions she made. She looks at everything with a keen eye and learns to sort through right and wrong. She also is imressive in her ability to hold her own, to question the right issues and to take care of herself. She is someone whom in real life I might never encounter, so I am glad I have in this book. I was sad to see it end and will not soon forget Vangie. <br />I hope for much more from this author. Her talent is exraordinary.	2002-05-12
US	48420158	R308AX50LTY34S	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	3.5 stars for silly fun	I resisted reading this book for a long time simply because I thought it would be silly and not very interesting. But so many people raved about it that I decided to give it a try. I love the Brit Lit genre, and assumed this would fall into that category. As it sort of does.<br />Becky was not as likeable a character as, say Bridget Jones, or Jemima J. She is self absorbed, flighty and manic! But yet she is addictive, and so are her plights and emotional rollercoasters about her shopping addiction and the financial implications. I am not a shopaholic, and yet I found myself relating on some level to her cyclical buying, spending and then lamenting over how much she spent. And then of course hiding the bills -- out of sight out of mind!<br />This book is pretty shallow, but it is loads of fun. I read it in conjunction with another book so that if I didn't feel like heavy reading I could pick this one up. And by the end I have to admit I was cheering for Becky and happy that she landed herself where she did (without giving anything away). <br />This book is not as fulfilling or plot focused as other brit lit, but it is equally as fun and as addictive. If I were to choose, I would go with any Marian Keyes, Jane Green or Lisa Jewell book over this. But this one IS a lot of fun. And a good way to brush up on brand names and fashion trends! It made me want to go shopping!	2002-05-06
US	48420158	R1PPS2E11OLWOZ	0375703675	742933968	Dear Exile : The True Story of Two Friends Separated (for a Year) by an Ocean	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Page Turner	As someone who is intrigued by the Peace Corps, this book was a compelling read for me. Having also spent half a year overseas in third world countries, I could relate to many of the conditions described by Kate in her letters. And her letters truly enabled the reader to look in on a world that is so different from their own. <br />It was also fun to see the dichotomy between Hilary's life and that of Kate's and her husband's. The two &quot;friends&quot; could not have chosen more differing paths. A lot came through the letters the two women wrote, including the supportive and wonderful relationship Kate and her husband seem to have.<br />I was not impressed by the friendship between Kate and Hilary, however. It was great that Kate was able to write about her experiences to Hilary, as a form of a diary and an outlet to vent her tribulations in Africa. And it was probably fun for ehr to get letters from Hilary as well -- these two had a nice relationship on paper. However, their relationship in person was a joke. These two women could not have lived more different lives, one caught up in the superficial life of NYC and the other, as genuine as could be. <br />Neither life is wrong, its just, both girls are so incredibly different, and have chosen such different paths that it is hard to imagine the two of them having a friendship that goes beyond letters exchanged when the two were thousands of miles apart. It was interesting how close they seemed when living far apart, and how far apart they seemed while being near each other. I think each could learn a lot from the other, and that perhaps their friendship moved beyond what it seemed at the end of this book, but I was disappointed by the ending. <br />It sparked interesting questions, and is a quick and interesting read. The letters these two women wrote were interesting in their own right, especially Kate's. Her experiences and the choices she and her husband had to make were amazing. If nothing else, I am glad shehad Hilary to write to during a most trying time in her life.	2002-04-29
US	48420158	R1Y1DUY18IXDBE	0385319371	277193328	A Cup of Light	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Amazing Writer	I read Nicole Mones' first book, Lost in Translation, and knew that I had happened upon a talented and brilliant writer. She creates interesting and compelling characters and, like the previous reviewer said, puts you into their mind as you read, and immerses you into a new world and culture.<br />Having never known anything about porcelain, this book taught me so much without being preachy at all. Mones has a way of weaving fact into fiction so that it reads in an interesting way and becomes a part of the story. And that goes the same for the culture both of China and of the intricate world of porcelain. Who would have known that some of those pieces date back hundreds of thousands of years and are worth billions? <br />And weaved within all of the interesting backgrounds of history, art and culture, there are multi-dimensional characters who you will not want to see go, as well as stories of romance, of art theft and of a world so different from the one's we live from day to day. <br />The story primarily revolves around a woman named Lia who is a porcelain appraiser sent to look at hundreds of pieces of porcelain in China. While there, she teaches us all about the history of many of these pieces, as well as so much more. She also teaches about an &quot;underground&quot; world of people who smuggle such works out of China, and she begins a budding romance with a doctor who left the US and an unsettled past.<br />The intricacies of this book are as unique as the pieces of art Lia describes. You will not be disappointed, except to see it end. And you will be left with a story you won't soon forget, as well as insight into a world you might have otherwise overlooked.<BR>I hope to see more work by this author soon!	2002-04-29
US	48420158	R1M54HO2MO7P0M	0345426266	955062554	The Analyst	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Top notch suspense!	This was an incredible book that would make an excellent movie!<BR>Katzenbach has a skill for creating compelling and convincing<BR>characters, and a plot that will run you ragged by the end as you try and figure out what is going on! This book is suspenseful to the very end. And even then you will be awe struck! <br />I read it in two days while on vacation, and by the end of the week everyone I was with had read it and was mesmerized by the intensity and brilliance of the story.<br />Dr. Starks, a widower, is a creature of habit and routine. With no close family, and seemingly few friends, he is a psychoanalyst practicing from his home. On his 52nd birthday, he gets a riddle of a note from \\"Rumplestiltskin\\" who claims that he will kill Dr. Starks unless Starks kills himself or figures out who he is within 15 days. When Starks learns that this mystery person also made threats to his family, he<BR>realizes the reality of the situation.<br />At some point, we learn \\"R\\" is seeking revenge for a patient Starks failed to help long ago. Stark's life is instantly turned upside down as the \\"stalkers\\" relentlessly play mind games with him and anticipate his every move. He works against the clock to figure out who is threatening him, his patients, his family, and everyone and everything he knows and who the patient was that he supposedly failed. Nothing in his life is sacred anymore -- not his bank accounts, not his homes, his practice, not anything. And the clock is ticking.<br />This is a hard book to review without giving too much away. The twists and turns are enough to keep you turning pages voraciously. It is one of the best books of the psychological thriller genre I have read. Starks is a brilliant character who emerges as a strong, and unpredictable man. Not to mention the other characters in the book who will have you spellbound with their actions and their ability to know everything about Starks. <br />Read this book. You will not be able to put it down and you will<BR>want everyone you know to read it also so that you can talk about it.	2002-04-18
US	48420158	R1CP2I0NKAIN7Y	0312280513	644476331	Nearer Than the Sky	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Eloquently Written Story Telling	This was my first book by T.Greenwood, and I plan to seek out her books from this point onward. Ms. Greenwood has a flair for such poetic and eloquent language, provoking the reader to look for so much more than what is written on the page. Her talent is extraordinary. And her ability to develop characters is flawless as well.<br />This book weaves from past to present using flashback as a means by which to tell the story of how the characters have become who they are. The main characters are two sisters, Lily and Indie. Separated by miles, and by different relationships with their past, these two are brought together when their mother gets sick. Indie and Lily both became entirely different women, based on their relationship with their mother, who had munchausen by proxy syndrome.<br />The plot gets thicker as Lily's own baby is inexplicably sick all the time, and as her husband questions whether or not Lily is causing the illnesses. Also of equal complexity, is watching as Indie and Lily come to terms with the truth about their past.<br />This is a complex, yet beautifully written and quick paced novel. I cannot wait to read more from this talented writer. She is able to create interesting dynamics amongst people, compelling plots, and a fast-paced story. Ms. Greenwood does a great job showing how the past influenced who these two sisters have become, how they handle relationships, and how they perceive themselves vs. how others see them.	2002-04-15
US	48420158	RNG1BOC0XHYYF	0385502761	841891973	Look at Me	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Ambitious and Compelling	The writer of this book is incredibly talented and she tackled an intricately weaved story about the fragility of identity; namely, what happens to people that provokes them to transcend who they are. The main character is a model named Charlotte, who seems shallow at first, and unlikeable, until she opens up to a reporter who is trying to write her biography for an internet project that simulates many of the reality based programs that are becoming the societal norm.<br />This book has several complex characters, none of whom have a consistent personality or identity throughout -- it seems the author is trying to relay a message about perception -- how we perceive ourselves, how others perceive us, and how easy it is to create ourselves and alter perception. Or just to become someone else.<br />But a lot is lost in this book because too much is going on. There are quite a few characters who do not seem pertinent, one of whom is weaved throughout and then seems to fall of the face of the world Egan created. And another who, it is never clear, either suffers from a major mental illness or has a breakdown.<br />This book could have been a four star, but it seemed to me as if the author was a bit too ambitious and a bit too verbose. The message was a powerful one, but it was lost in all of the different stories going on simultaneously. Perhaps the story of the older Charlotte would have been enough -- but there were just too many things happening. Sometimes, less is more.	2002-03-28
US	48420158	R1Q4D46VM8NVR3	0385497296	529809863	The Vine of Desire: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good, but left me wanting...	This book was certainly as compelling as the first -- Sister of My Heart. This author has a talent for artistry with her writing, weaving a tapestry with words.<br />Beginning where Sister of My Heart left off, with Sudha starting her new life in America despite pleas from an old love for marriage, this book opens with intensity. Anju's husband Sunil has strong feelings for Sudha, and they are reignited when Sudha moves in with child. Anju and Sunil's marriage has been rocky since the loss of their baby, and Sudha's moving in does not help. The reader has to wonder why Anju or Sudha thought it would, or if in fact they knew it might not, but needed certain truths to be revealed. <br />Sudha tries to build a life for herself and her baby in America, attempting to date, and to find work. However, Sunil has other plans for her. This said, the triangle between these three comes to a pivitol stage, and Sudha moves out on her own, having found work and a place to live. Anju and Sunil also must work to salvage their lives, whatever paths they may take.<br />Ultimately, this book is about transformation and growth. It is about expectations vs. reality. And it teaches a lot about the Indian culture, as well as what it is like to be immersed into a completely foreign culture. Sudha experiences a lot of transformation as she realizes the freedoms that come with a culture so different from her own. <br />Again, at the end, I was left wanting for so much more. I am hoping there is a third to this series in the making, and will be disappointed if there is not. There was so much left unanswered. Three lives have yet to be developed in the new paths they've taken.	2002-03-11
US	48420158	R2LGOAX9I9ADL1	0385497296	529809863	The Vine of Desire: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but left me wanting...	This book was certainly as compelling as the first -- Sister of My Heart. This author has a talent for artistry with her writing, weaving a tapestry with words.<br />Beginning where Sister of My Heart left off, with Sudha starting her new life in America despite pleas from an old love for marriage, this book opens with intensity. Anju's husband Sunil has strong feelings for Sudha, and they are reignited when Sudha moves in with child. Anju and Sunil's marriage has been rocky since the loss of their baby, and Sudha's moving in does not help. The reader has to wonder why Anju or Sudha thought it would, or if in fact they knew it might not, but needed certain truths to be revealed. <br />Sudha tries to build a life for herself and her baby in America, attempting to date, and to find work. However, Sunil has other plans for her. This said, the triangle between these three comes to a pivitol stage, and Sudha moves out on her own, having found work and a place to live. Anju and Sunil also must work to salvage their lives, whatever paths they may take.<br />Ultimately, this book is about transformation and growth. It is about expectations vs. reality. And it teaches a lot about the Indian culture, as well as what it is like to be immersed into a completely foreign culture. Sudha experiences a lot of transformation as she realizes the freedoms that come with a culture so different from her own. <br />Again, at the end, I was left wanting for so much more. I am hoping there is a third to this series in the making, and will be disappointed if there is not. There was so much left unanswered. Three lives have yet to be developed in the new paths they've taken.	2002-03-11
US	48420158	R3CB6MCML281LL	038548951X	764861011	Sister of My Heart: A Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Beautiful, lyrical tale	This beautifully written book is the story of two young women who are born on the same day, in the same home, to newly widowed mothers. The women are cousins, but grow up with a bond that makes them linked like sisters. The two have very different lives, as Anju, the witty and smart one, is truly a member of the Chaterjee family(a family of wealth and privilege), where as Sudha, the beautiful one, is a distant cousin. The story of how Sudha came to be, and who her father really is, is one of the many sub-stories that weaves its way into this intricately developed book.<br />This book is about love, relationships, and about the fragility of life. It is also about things not always being what they seem. For Anju and Sudha are both forced to enter into arranged marriages. Poor Sudha's heart belongs to a man she met only once but was instantly drawn to, as he was to her. And the man she is led to marry answers none of her prayers. He is tied to his mother whom Sudha is never able to please. That story develops in ways I do not want to give away, but Sudha's character is one of strength and conviction. <br />Anju is set with a man who she is instantly taken by, and at first he is taken by her, until he meets Sudha. He lives in America, and in time Anju leaves India to become an American wife as well. The complexities of the relationship between Anju and her husband Sunil are never quite revealed, leaving the reader to imagine what is truly going on. However, the tension is obvious, and Anju always remembers the way Sunil looked at her cousin with longing.<br />Years pass and so do experiences, and Anju and Sudha do not share how they truly feel through letters or phone conversations until finally Anju truly needs her. Sudha's marriage does not quite go as planned, and he life takes unexpected twists and turns. As does Anju's. Ultimately leading them back into each other's arms and hearts. <br />But can things ever be the same? This is basically where we are left, and then it is time to go on to the sequel!!! Fortunately I have it and cannot wait to dive into it. Ms. Divakaruni is an incredible writer who delves deep into the construct of human relationships and of the heart. This book is a treat, amazingly written and with a beautifully story of friendship and love.<BR>I highly recommend it.	2002-03-04
US	48420158	R2V97TWJLWV9OP	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	2	12	17	N	N	I tried, I really Did -- more of a 2.5	I wanted to like this book -- and tried to make myself finish it, but finally, after two months and several other books in between, I called it quits and begged my online book club to tell me what happened. <BR>I've never read Atwood before, and have heard this book is not her typical work. So I do plan to read her again sometime, but this book was so tough to get into. From the beginning I was compelled to keep reading by her excellent, poetic writing. However the people were not incredibly likeable -- were almost one dimensional, and I couldn't develop an interest in them. <br />I felt that because of the acclaims this book has won, I had to keep going, and I did. Until page 200. And a lot happened, in fact three stories were going on at the same time. But not one of them interested me. <br />I usually love books of this time period and of this genre. But this book was so dark. It was as if the world the Author was paining was black, and the lives of the characters were so one dimensional that they had to create parallel universes. Or maybe I was creating them in my mind to try and forage an interest in the stories. <br />Regardless, despite interesting concepts and ideas... Atwood just didn't carry it out for me. And I now know what happens in the end and I am glad I decided not to finish because the darkness just gets darker. And the lives of the characters in the story are never fulfilled -- nothing to learn, nothing to gain, and nothing to think about at the end except for why did I bother reading this as long as I did? <br />I can see some people liking this all the same -- maybe it is a book that people should attempt because they would either love it or hate it. I was pretty indifferent.	2002-02-26
US	48420158	R18Y44GQXX6EF6	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	45	51	N	N	Breathtaking and Beautifully Written	This book has so much depth and intensity that it is difficult to find the words to review it with. From racial boundries and war to familial issues, incest, religion and different levels of relationships, there is little this book leaves out. And yet, unlike some authors who try to tackle too much, Ms. MacDonald succeeds in covering it all beautifully.<br />This book is about multi-generations of a family from Nova Scotia. The most compelling stories lie within the four surviving children of the family -- four girls, each one incredibly different from the next. The parents of the girls are an interesting component of the book, as are the grandparents -- and the father plays a large, highly impactful, role in the lives of the girls. Some characters you will love others not, but undoubtedly no one in the Piper family will leave your mind for a long time. <br />The stories and plights of this family are unbelievable and breathtaking. The book brings in different twists, turns and surprises on every page, and I found myself having to turn back pages in order to gain new insights into what really happened. Nothing is ever what it seems, and nothing is what you expect it to be. <br />This book is incredible -- anyone who appreciates artistry in writing, and compelling stories that take you through a full gamut of emotions and thoughts -- that develop your mind as a reader,will love this book.	2002-02-21
US	48420158	R1SHKHLCJMTS5K	0971470804	848106272	Elegant Leadership: Simple Strategies, Remarkable Results	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Elegantly Effective	I don't read too many books by leadership or management consultants, because they usually offer pat, superficial advice. What I loved about Elegant Leadership is that it let me come up with my own answers about how to improve performance and lead more effectively, based solely on my experiences and corporate culture. <br />Mr. Neitlich does a great job providing frameworks to help the reader think about leadership issues, and then he asks structured, powerful questions so that we can think more deeply about how we lead. Also, unlike many other books, he provides a balanced, holistic view of leadership -- incorporating behavior, attitudes, conversations, and ways of thinking. I will refer to this book often, and give it to colleagues, managers, and direct reports. It has the ability to positively effect the way best business practices are conducted.	2002-02-19
US	48420158	R3P2SK33X4QNPI	0743418700	768832350	Salem Falls	Books	3	16	17	N	N	3.5 stars probably but not Picoult's best	I have to preface this by saying that I have read all of Jodi Picoult's books, and always wait anxiously for her next to arrive. She is an incredible writer, who always has compelling and interesting plots and characters, but Salem Falls was not up to her usual standards.<br />It starts with a bang -- a brilliant Ph.D who landed himself in prison with false charges of statatory rape gets out and settles in Salem Falls, a quaint, nothing ever happens, type of North East coast town. I was immediately drawn to his character as well as that of the woman who \\"takes him in,\\" Addie. She is a woman tied to the past, and psychologically impacted by it -- afraid that those she loves will leave her, and unwilling to accept that those she has lost are truly gone. It takes her many years, for example, to accept that her daughter has passed away.<br />Aside from these two likeable characters and some less visible ones, the main characters are four teenagers. One of whom accuses Jack of rape, puts him on trial, and has the whole town defending her. And this is where the book lost its draw for me. The punch of a start fizzled out half way through as I began to piece together everything I knew would happen next, and it did. The ending might have been a surprise, had I not guessed it at the very beginning. And had I not been drawn to Jack, longing for him to earn the respect he deserves, I might have given up.  <br />I suppose if I had never read Picoult, this one might have appealed to me. But my expectations were so high that this was a let down. All of her other books are incredible, this one, mediocre in my opinion. But I would still recommend it, just not before any of her other jewels.	2002-02-09
US	48420158	RLPX4BPTKVQZL	0767905199	527463952	Mr. Maybe	Books	4	34	41	N	N	Fun, funny escapist fiction	This book was a riot. I read it while on the stairmaster at 6AM when nothing is funny. But I was laughing out loud as people looked at me thinking I was clearly insane. There are so many funny lines in this book, I found myself trying to explain them to people. The main character is great -- from her relationship with family, to friends, and of course, men, she is a real, genuine, fun and funny person. I will miss reading about her!<br />There is nothing original or unpredictable about this book, except that the main character is not trying to improve her looks or lose weight. She does, however, struggle with her true identity. Is she a socialite type? Sophisticated, slique? Or all of the above. But this book is a blast.<br />Surely anyone who loves the new genre of Brit books will love this. Libby, a PR exec, loyal friend, and all around great girl decides to have a &quot;fling&quot; with the gorgeous, but not quite succesful, Nick. He agrees, as they both love spending time together but neither, allegedly, want a relationship. Nick falls for Libby (and she for him though she doesn't want to admit it) and so he breaks things off.<br />Libby then finds rich and eligable Ed, but is he the one? She certainly isn't attracted to him, but he does have everything she wants. And Libby's is not the only story that draws you in. Her best friend Jules is also an icredibly likeable character, with her own marriage issues to sort through.<br />This book is one to read, and this author is definitely on my list of must buys! Read it and have some fun!	2002-01-24
US	48420158	R2IXU7Z72UUI3A	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Disappointed...	I love James Patterson anytime for a quick, easy but page turning novel. Over the years I have come to depend on his Alex Cross detective series as a sure fire good book. Roses are Red was decent, and I was looking forward to reading this book as a follow up.<BR>But follow up it wasn't! Because the same exact character was again weaved throughout the book. When I first read the Mastermind called him, I thought I was imagining that he had been discovered in the last book. And then I looked back andrealized that in fact he had -- and in Violets are Blue, he was resurrected as the same exact character, right down to the end. I was so annoyed by this. And the writing in this book wasn't as good as usual, in part, because it kept detailing old crimes. It was in serious need of editing. <BR>I heard that the next new Women's Murder Club is soon to be released, and I will purchase it. As I would the next in the Cross series. But maybe it is time for Cross to take a new path in a new career. Or something. Anything. But not this again. I wanted my money back by the end. I am not ready to give up yet, but if I ever have to waste my time reading another book with exactly the same plot as the last one, I will.	2002-01-14
US	48420158	R3A1HIYIBDP14I	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Excellent Work	Shop Girl is an impressive work of fiction by Steve Martin. He is clearly a brilliant man, and an effective, powerful writer. This book explores the complexities of human relationships -- it dares to bring to the surface difficult questions about what attracts people to eachother, and how often times people seek in others what they are missing in themselves.<BR>The protagonist, Mirabelle, was an insecure, somewhat neurotic woman working in a department store while trying to carry out her true passion, being an artist. Ray Porter, a successful, weathly business man, spent two years courting Mirabelle, though never willingly committing himself to her. He never quite understood what sustained his attraction to her, though I believe it was simply that she fulfilled his need to take care of someone. And he fulfilled her need to be cared about.<BR>I don't want to give much away, but this is a satisfying, complex, quick, yet powerful book. Highly recommended. I hope there are more books by Steve Martin on the way of this calibre.	2001-12-17
US	48420158	R2CKMU8O2UHVXF	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I LOVE THIS BOOK!	Jennifer Weiner is definitely a writer who's books I will look forward to. This book offers such a fun story with twists, turns and a little bit of fate. This book has so many layers to it, from complex family relationships, to getting over heartache, and to raising a child alone. This book touches on so many emotions of the human heart -- humor, sadness, laughter, and basically, just plain fun. I laughed, wiped tears and routed for Cannie from the beginning straight through to the end. I highly recommend this book for a quick, great read.	2001-12-17
US	48420158	R2LLG3FL74LGQ1	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Should write a novel	Steve Martin is an excellent writer, and clearly an inelligent, deep man. This was a fantastic story about human relationships, and what draws certain types of people to others. It is about intrinsic needs to help, and be helped, and about healthy versus unhealthy relationships.<BR>In this particular short story -- light on pages but not on depth of character -- a young woman named Mirabelle, who considers herself an artist, yet continues to take on mundane, mindless work, falls in love with an older man who is kind of using her to fulfil his own needs. Their relationship goes through a cycle, where both parties learn a great deal about themselves, and why they were drawn together in the first place --one needing to be cared for, the other, needing to nurture and to care for someone. <BR>This rather unhealthy relationship led both to fulfillment ultimately, as well as a deeper self-awareness. Other characters weave throughout the book, and teach lessons as well. This is an excellent story, very entertaining, and well written. I highly recommend it, and hope Steve Martin continues on a succesful fiction writing path.	2001-12-10
US	48420158	ROKX2BHO2YV43	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, funny book	I read this book in one sitting, restraining myself from peaking to the end to see what happened because I was so curious! It was an excellent book, one that my husband and I both enjoyed, so not just another &quot;brit-chick&quot; book! I found this book more fulfilling than the author's &quot;Thirty Nothing&quot;, as the characters were more interesting in this one and much more was going on as there were several interweaving stories, making it impossible to put down. If you are looking for a quick, fun, interesting book, this will keep you turning the pages to the very end.	2001-12-03
US	48420158	RXUVNZFZ5WUKB	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unexpectedly Excellent	This is such a page turning, satisfying, brit-chick-book. Jemima (JJ) is a character you cannot help but to cheer for, cry with, laugh with and love. JJ transforms her body for an internet mystery man half way around the world, when her heart is truly on a man right in her own world. Although the man over seas turns out to be -- well, not what he appears, he may be the best thing to ever happen to Jemima. As does her trip to LA. For not all fairy tales become reaility, but sometimes, life can be just like a dream. And in the case of Jemima, the reader cannot help but to want it to. Jemima is a real, intelligent captivating character who anyone can relate to. This is a great pick-me-up book with laughs, tears of joy, and appreciation for the new genre of brit-feel good books. I recommend it to anyone who wants a light but satisfying and delicious read.	2001-12-02
US	48420158	R3IIBV74HNC0NM	0060959355	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Would give 3.5 if I could	This was a good book, and certainly held my interest, but I found myself unsatisfied at the end. &quot;More than You Know&quot; is fitting because I wanted to know more, but I do not see this as a positive. For example, why was the ghost interested in harming others, particularly Hannah and Conary? Hannah, afterall, was unhappy in her childhood home life, so why would the ghost want to inflict more unhappiness on her? <BR>The best part of the book was the parallel stories weaved throughout -- of two families, both with their own nuances and issues, and of complex family relationships. Gutcheon does a good job of creating the results our interfamilial relations have on the rest of our lives. <BR>This is an intersting story -- one that might have been better if more detail of the characters were brought in. It was a fast read -- not entirely satisfying, but definitely compelling enough that you would want to read it cover to cover, and fast. I would recommend it for a quick, easy read.	2001-11-26
US	48420158	RHBPM7FFIP2FD	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun Read	I read this book in one sitting while on honeymoon. It was such a fun, uplifting, humorous book. While it is not an entirely new theme -- thirty somethings (well in this case thirty-nothings) looking for love and fulfillment -- Lisa Jewell did a great job of being unique and interesting in her own right. The characters are likeable and easily identified with, and I found myself laughing with them, and wanting all of them to be happy and to find what they were looking for. It is a predictable book, but one that I found myself wanting to go exactly as planned. It is the perfect light and uplifting book for anyone in the mood for a few laughs and a happy ending. Satisfying and fun. It is a book about friendship, love and relationships, and about how sometimes what we are looking for is right there, if only we open our eyes.	2001-11-09
US	48420158	RICCUE6YBFRNE	0060935979	441389446	Gloria: A Novel	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Captivating	I read Gloria while on my honeymoon, and could not put it down. When not reading it, I found myself thinking about Gloria and her experiences, tribulations, and revelations. Gloria is an intense, complex and amazing character. As I read this book, I found myself identifying with her in many ways, and trying to stop her from certain decisions she would come to regret as well. She is a brilliant, compassionate young woman who grows and develops more and more as you turn the pages. <br />Maillard's talent is indisputable -- he weaves in poetry and literature emphasizing Gloria's search for life, truth and insight through poetry. <br />The other characters in this book areequally as complex -- and amazingly developed. Primarily, people weave in and out of Gloria's life and are all an integral part of who she is and how she develops as a person. The reader watches her growth and development as she interacts with various people differently, and more assertively throughout the book. <br />Words cannot do justice to the beauty, poeticism, and intelligence mastered in this novel. Already, I believe I will read it again, and will definitely recommend it highly.	2001-11-08
US	48420158	R8811NY2CUB2K	074322535X	780904511	Gap Creek: The Story of a Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Boring and long	This book was not one I was eager to read from the beginning, but I was in a hurry, stuck for a book, and thought an Oprah pick might be uplifting, or at the very least, interesting. I got through the first few chapters all right, and even though the main character displays the utmost determination, I just could not get into the story. It was depressing, however realistic seeming, incredibly uninspiring, and, did I already say depressing? Okay, so it is well written, and it brings the reader to the world of despair and poverty, not to mention, starvation. If you are looking for a book that is not uplifting or fast-paced, this might interest you. It truly is a book about survival. If you, like myself, read for compelling stories, captivating characters, and a book you will not want to put down -- I would recommend looking elsewhere. This author surely has potential -- this was just too heartbreaking for me.	2001-09-19
US	48420158	R21G81NVW4OMN2	0061014060	647142289	Somebody's Baby	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good Beach Read	This begins as a love story about a young Jewish woman, named Jenny, who is growing up in the 50s. She falls in love with a boy from what her parents consider to be the wrong upbringing, and ends up getting pregnant. I was instantly drawn in to the story, both the love story and the relationship with her family and friends. Jenny wants to keep the baby and marry her love, but her parents intercept that. We don't find out until the end what really happened, and that kept me drawn in. The story shifts to years later, when her baby (who Jenny was sent away to have) is all grown up (35 years old) and wants to find her birth parents despite her excellent relationship with her adoptive parents. Both parents embrace meeting her and the reunions are heartfelt. The major question remains, will Jenny and Will find out the truth and be reunited? <BR>I gave this a three because the writing was not fantastic. It read like a harlequin romance novel and I skimmed a lot of it. While the story and characters were compelling, the writing was not. Also, I couldn't help thinking how much more interesting this book might have been if the internet and today's technological innovations had been included.	2001-09-04
US	48420158	R1YVIX3Q2WCC4O	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Haunting and Compelling	This is a fantastic book by Anita Shreve. Though I was not intrigued by the topic, I kept hearing raves about this, and picked it up. I am glad I did, because from page one, I was hooked. Shreve builds many characters, in great depth to the extent that the reader feels a part of the story. I found myself so captivated by Maureen/Mary's plight to save her baby and herself from an abusive husband that I wanted to get into the small community she ran to and help her. This story teaches the reader that things are not always what they seem, and that sometimes, people will stop at nothing to protect those they love. It is a disturbing book, but important and satisfying. It does not disappoint.	2001-08-30
US	48420158	R3N7MLY05NDZRD	0446610178	794635347	The Sky Is Falling	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fast Paced but not up to stuff	I typically love Sidney Sheldon -- for his consistently fast, compelling reads, but this one was not quite up to par. I admit, I had trouble putting it down to the very end, but it was more because I was hoping my hunches were wrong and that a twist would be thrown in somewhere. But, it was predictable, and the less then interesting characters (aside from Dana and Jeff who were interesting), were exactly what they seemed to be. If it were possible, I might have given this book 3.5 stars because it kept me hooked. An interesting factor was the underground city Dana uncovered in Russia -- especially because as far fetched as it seemed, it is somewhat reality. Dana Evans is a great character, and I would like to see Shelodn pick up with her again in his old style. He certainly left the ending open to do so. This is the story of a reporter who stops at nothing to get to the bottom of her hunch that a family of five high powered people who were all killed, were actually murdered. There are a lot of twists Dana must go through to get to the conclusion, but not a lot of turns, because the reader can see what is going to happen. However, it is Sheldon style in that you will not want to put it down until the end --	2001-08-29
US	48420158	R30ZB9SMZLV9U3	0449227545	999720718	The Hammer of Eden	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intriguing and Interesting	Ken Follet is an incredible author who creates captivating, intriguing and fascinating work. Although this is not my favorite by him, it is still a great book. The characters are well portrayed,and there is a good balance between good and evil. Judy is a great and likeable character, and I rooted for her throughout. Other reviews discredit the book because it is unrealistic -- but that is unfair. The plot is not unrealistic, as there are many cults and sub cultures out there who will do anything to stop a political venture, or to fight government. This is a book any Ken Follett, or suspense reader will enjoy. It is fast paced, and as always, Follett did his homework. Keep the books coming!	2001-08-24
US	48420158	R1DD5VOA4I0SES	0141001992	983512543	Body of a Girl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Compelling	This is a fascinating book, with an amazingly developed protaganist. Olivia Dale is a complex and intense character who will stop at nothing to get the story. A crime reporter in Memphis, Olivia comes upon the case of a dead young woman who looks like her, is her age, and for all intents and purposes, could just as easily have been her or any other young woman in the city. Wanting to get to the bottom of what happened, how, why and by whom, Olivia begins living as the victim might have. She tries to piece the puzzle together by recreating the victim's life and experiences. We watch this woman transform as a person and reporter, and learn a great deal about herself. What are human boundaries, and how far are we willing to extend them in different circumstances? A highly recommended, page turning, thriller.	2001-08-24
US	48420158	RD26OW6HJM66R	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent and Complex	This is an amazingly written book and Strout does an excellent job of setting the tone right off the bat. She is a talented writer who portrays characters and emotions very well. This book has many layers to it, and is about relationships on many levels; friendship, mother-daughter, and some less than ideal relations as well. It is about trust, faith, and the human condition. The characters are multi-dimensional and likeable with the exception of the teacher who Amy has &quot;interaction&quot; with. This book, like life, demonstrates the many hats people wear, and proves that in facing adversity, our relationships often strengthen, and our character grows. This is a great book, and hopefully the author will write more soon.	2001-08-22
US	48420158	R182RN0V0ABGJU	0446610399	717558254	The Rescue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Story Telling at its Best	Nicholas Sparks is an amazing author, and this book was fantastic. It delves into the complexities of love and life, and builds likeable and solid characters from the start. At times, I wanted to shake Taylor and tell him to put aside his baggage and take a chance, but mostly, the love story emerged incredibly well in this story, and the plot flowed amazingly well. I did not know which way the ending would go, and was pleasantly surprised. This book is a page turner for a rainy day, or for the beach. It will not let you down.	2001-08-22
US	48420158	R2WWG8FM6UL4Y5	0440224624	117143822	The Loop	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent, Breathtaking	This is an excellent book, and as an animal lover who cannot stand to see animals in pain, I wanted the wolves to win from the start. I felt more compassion for the animals from the get go then I did for any of the characters. The scenery is described beautifully, as is the nature of life in the midwest. This book allows a reprieve from the daily grind. The main character is captivating, and this book offers a bit of everything -- love, adversity, and personal growth, as well as villians and heroes. Evans is a mesmerizing writer, with the ability to truly tell a story.	2001-08-22
US	48420158	R191BFWYVFPVNP	0679771476	887180857	The Law of Similars	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Compelling	This book was fantastic, and one I could not put down. Bohjalian is a talented writer who certainly does his research. While reading a gripping, fast paced, intriguing story, the reader can also pick up a few facts about homeopathy and medicine. The characters in this book gained my empathy, and they were incredibly well developed. I passed this book along to several people, and am eager to read more of Chris Bohjalian's work. The only reason I did not give this a 5 star rating is because I was not completely satisfied with the ending. It left some questions I'd have rather had answered with more pages.	2001-08-22
US	48420158	RALF159CMVU3O	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Page Turner	As I read this book, I was amazed by the depth of characters. I found myself disliking almost everyone in the book, and feeling sorry for the main character. At times I got so annoyed with everyone for their inability to communicate that I wanted to put the book down for good but I couldn't. This book was a tragedy of the human condition -- it was a lesson in cultural differences, and in the pressures people place on themselves. It depicted the worst in people, and yet it was a good book. It is not light reading, but it is a good read.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R3MWQ1ULSS7WJI	0141001844	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Addictive	After reading this book, it is hard to understand how it received so many off color reviews. This book was amazing and nearly impossible to put down. Fiona was such a compelling and real character -- she said the things we all sometimes want to say, but cannot. True, she made many mistakes, with 20-20 hindsight, but this was a character who had been rejected, lied to, used and abused for most of her life. This book would make a great movie. It is about someone who never gives up, even if everyone else seems to have never believed in her. I wish there were more books like this out there -- With the happy ending.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R10M2C3CQKBIQB	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced thriller	If I want a fast=paced cannot put down thriller, Patterson never lets me down. This book was not as good as his Alex Cross novels, but nonetheless, it was fast paced and kept me guessing until the end. Patterson is a great writer, and really knows how to keep the pages turning. I look forward to more &quot;Women's Murder Club&quot; books. The main characters are good ones -- very real people.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R3DJ4F6EBWHSW1	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Powerful	Another one of Shreve's great works, the character of Eden Close is one I found myself feeling sad for many of the characters. It is a haunting book, and one that will effect the reader for days after its completion. It is beautifully written and compelling.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R2C1BSO827K0AZ	0385319444	882427602	Lost in Translation	Books	5	11	11	N	N	FANTASTIC	This book is a cannot put down, compelling read. It is one of the best books I've read in so many ways. The characters are fantastic, and so real. The historical aspects are presented in such a fascinating way --sculpted into the story so well. It is also a lesson in an entirely different culture. I hope Nicole Mones writes many more books -- though the research and attention to detail that went into this one must have taken years. There were so many plots and subplots in this book -- it is one I can invision myself picking up again at some point.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R10OLU09SKWBZ7	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Book For Everyone	This book should be required reading for life. Morrie has lessons to teach that everyone needs to hear. He is such a wonderful, loveable man, and the world is lucky to have all that which is shared in this book as a reference on living. I buy this book as a gift again and again, and refer to it often. It is truly beautiful.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R1AP7XGF7GPM6A	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Amazing	Jodi Picoult is one of the best writers out there. She writes with so much conviction, compassion and talent. This book was amazing. I was sad to see it end. The characters are so compelling, and the insight into the Amish community is fascinating. The ending was so unpredictable, and the emotional levels and different stories happening simultaneously to different characters made this book a gripping read. Picoult cannot write fast enough!	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R1N2WFF8RFVNGP	0743201647	529957238	The Pleasing Hour	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining	This is a good, fast read. It is a coming of age novel for an American young woman spending time in France as an Au Pair. This book offers an excellent, compelling story, and insight into a foreign culture. It is a great story, and one I would recommend to anyone looking for a good, fulfilling read.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	RO7AEZ1ENQ662	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful	This book is incredible. I could not put it down, and could not stop thinking about it for days after I finished it. I wished I had a whole pile of books that would be similar and as fulfilling. This story is about true love, passion, and it opens up questions of morality, trust and honesty. Anita Shreve portrays this time period so well, and builds the characters amazingly. She creates compelling people who you truly get to know and will be sad to see go. I highly recommend this book.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R251BXJ400M4LS	0688177743	280607679	Keeping Faith: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing	This book is one of Picoult's best. It is gripping from beginning to end. I found my self captivated by the characters, and by the story of Faith. This book opens so many doors, and leaves the reader to find answers, while drawing in several compelling themes, plots and sub-plots. As always, the characters are addictive, and their ability to become self aware and develop throughout the book is a tribute to Picult's talent. The ending, as always, left me wanting more.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R2ECBQJ3RKRDNS	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the Best Books of the Decade	This book was beautifully written. From the very beginning you just fall in love with the main character. This inside look at the life of Geisha is heart wrenching. These poor women were brought through so many emotional and difficult experiences, and yet Sayuri manages to get through all of it and remain a whole person. Characters are weaved throughout the book -- such as the Chairman, and you find yourself wondering what the motives are behind each of them, what they are made of. As Sayuri grows from a child, to an intelligent and clever woman you cannot help but to be drawn to her, and to her life experiences. Although Japanese culture has changed since this book was written to a larger degree, it is fascinating to learn about what it once was. An amazing book that everyone should read. I cannot wait to see the movie.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	RKU7SQAYLWO15	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent	Another one of Shreve's great works, the character of Eden Close is one I found myself feeling sad for, as well as many of the other characters. It seems they are stuck in the past, and need to find a way to relinquish it and not be so effected by it. It is a haunting book, and one that will effect the reader for days after finsihing it. It is beautifully written and compelling.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R9QT58SFT1SGH	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sweet Book	What a triumph of the human spirit. Icy is such a great character, and her development shows the talent of this writer. She is a child with turrets during a time when little is known about this disease and it is considered a disability. Despite her differences and the adversity she must face, she manages to make a difference in those lives who allow her to come in. She is such a sweet, smart girl, and has so much to give to readers, and to those characters lives she touches. This is a book that will make you smile, and be thankful for what you have.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R35TPAGAD2EHD7	0743422449	876610287	Mercy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Page Turner	As always, Jodi Picoult wrote an amazing book. The characters all develop incredibly, and a story line that could have gone either way ended up being compelling. the description of this book did not intrigue me, but since Picoult wrote it, I had to read it. And as always, I was not sorry I did. I did not like characters as much as I have in her other books -- but I loved it none the less, and could not put it down.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R3L7ETXRANYV6J	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable	This is a good, light book that teaches a good deal about the time period in which it takes place. My only complaint is that I did not grow to feel compassion towards any of the characters. They all seem shallow. However, I found myself turning the pages of this book, compelled to read it to the end. When I put it down I was left satisfied, even if it was not as deep as I'd have liked.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R1XXWI28FLM4C2	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious	This book is one of the funniest, silliest books I've ever read. Far better than its counterpart, event hough both are great, I laughed out loud by myself on a rainy day as I read this book from cover to cover. I was turned off to the original book until seeing the movie. After that I rushed out, bought this, and had a great time reading it. Bridget Jones is a character everyone should be able to relate to, appreciate and laugh with.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R1E2LFVDVACJCJ	0670850993	725977597	Harvesting the Heart: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	WOW	This book was possibly Picoult's best. It was one that left you wondering what if? The ending left many unanswered questions, and I wanted to turn pages that weren't there. This book is the story of finding oneself. It is a story of love and heartbreak. It is a story that you will not soon forget.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R37L9AENXGFS6T	0446608718	892029045	Just Revenge	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best books...	I've read in a long time. Dershowitz writes a book that asks a compelling moral question. The characters in this book are incredibly likeable, and it is amazing the way Dershowitz makes the reader feel compassion for a man who committed horrible and unforgiveable acts years ago. This story portrays two sides of an unthinkable, yet very real, historical tragedy. Does a person have the right to seak revenge on a person who years ago, during the Nazi era, committed unthinkable acts of malice? Read this book and you will be intrigued.	2001-08-17
US	48420158	R2SWS4C8S7CSSH	0451197747	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Decent, Entertaining	This is an entertaining book, one that I did not put down easily. Mitchard is a great writer, and does a good job of portraying human emotion. The ending was an original twist to a common theme. The ending was not incredibly satisfying, however, because I always like the happy ending. Regardless, it is a fast paced, well written story.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R2D7I3P5KR689I	0375706429	312828157	Otherwise Engaged: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining And Funny	This was a good, quick read. There were some definite laugh out loud parts, and parts that every woman could relate to. The only disappointment was that this couple did not seem like the best match, or as if they were getting married for the right reasons. The main character is not the most likeable or stable person in many instances, and she is a bit manipulative. While this is a great read for those who are engaged or recently married. You will definitely get some good laughs and will relate with at least parts of the book. For example -- socks on the floor are not just socks on the floor, they are socks on the floor for the rest of your life!	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R3DWV8BIJSRKDS	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Story Telling	Elinor Lipman is a great and dependable story teller. The protagonist in this story is a very likeable character, and the plot has enough twists and turns to keep the reader pulled in. This is, in some ways, a coming of age story. It is also a historical time piece, and has a good deal of depth to it. It is a fast and fulfilling book.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R3BTKS6Q52D2AK	0141001844	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Addictive Read	After reading this book, it is hard to understand how it received so many off color reviews. This book was amazing and nearly impossible to put down. Fiona was such a compelling and real character -- she said the things we all sometimes want to say, but cannot. True, she made many mistakes, with 20-20 hindsight, but this was a character who had been rejected, lied to, used and abused for most of her life. This book would make a great movie. It is about someone who never gives up, even if everyone else seems to have never believed in her. I wish there were more books like this out there -- with the happy ending.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R2PQZ6EEAOEIRY	0670850993	725977597	Harvesting the Heart: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WOW	This book was possibly Picoult's best. It was one that left you wondering what if? The ending left many unanswered questions, and I wanted to turn pages that weren't there. This book is the story of finding oneself. It is a story of love and heartbreak. It is a story that you will not soon forget.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R3S0E4X3OKHM2G	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious and fun	This book is one of the funniest, silliest books. Far better than its counterpart, event hough both are great, I laughed out loud by myself on a rainy day as I read this book from cover to cover. I was turned off to the original book until seeing the movie. After that I rushed out, bought this, and had a great time reading it. Bridget Jones is a character everyone should be able to relate to, appreciate and laugh with.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	RJYAANSJDEPPQ	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Sweet Read	What a triumph of the human spirit. Icy is such a great character, and her development shows the talent of this writer. She is a child with turrets, in a time little is known about this disease, Despite her differences and the adversity she must face, she manages to make a difference in those lives who allow her to come in. She is such a sweet, smart girl, and has so much to give to readers, and to those characters lives she touches. This is a book that will make you smile, and be thankful for what you have.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R3IPK38YD3WZP5	0380797631	556400278	Last Days of Summer	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Touching and Wonderful Story	I absolutely loved this book, and began to read it again immediately after finishing it. I fell in love with the main character, as he reminded me of so many young, precocious children I have met. This book made me laugh and cry over and over again, and I think about it all the time. It offers incredible historical insight from the eyes of a brilliant child, and it is a tribute to the human condition. I recommend this book to anyone who has an open heart. This is a book to be cherished and passed around.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R2KC8E0ZE2JG6	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good until the end	This is one of those books that I could not put down, but when I reached the end I was completely disappointed. I liked the characters throughout, and particularly liked the flashbacks to this woman's college days. The character development was incredible and it built me up for this huge climax -- if it weren't for the letdown I'd have given it five stars. I recommend it because it is well written, entertaining, fast paced, and gripping until the last few pages.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	RGRZE8HI4DGHF	0446527165	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great Book	This was not a fast paced novel, but well written nonetheless. the story of a misplaced family, and the strength of the human heart and compassion. The main character is a precocios young girl, uprooted from her home in the face of tragedy with her brother and comatose mother and sent to live in the hills with her grandmother -- an amazing and strong woman. This book is the story of morality, truth, values, and the ability of a family to pull themselves together and survive, no matter where they are. It is the story of faith, and attitude. It is a refreshing change from this author -- and shows his depth of talent.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R119LDPVGXG8D5	0451197747	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Decent, Entertaining	This is an entertaining book, one that I did not put down easily. Michard is a great writer, and does a good job of portraying human emotion. The ending was an original twist to a common theme. The ending was not incredibly satisfying, however, because I always like the happy ending. Regardless, it is a fast paced, well written story.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R356THOSR8TKI7	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the Best Books of The Decade	This book was beautifully written. From the very beginning you just fall in love with the main character. This inside look at the life of Geisha is heart wrenching. These poor women were brought through so many emotional and difficult experiences, and yet Sayuri manages to get through all of it and remain a whole person. Characters are weaved throughout the book -- such as the Chairman, and you find yourself wondering what the motives are behind each of them, what they are made of. As Sayuri grows from a child, to an intelligent and clever woman you cannot help but to be drawn to her, and to her life experiences. Although Japanese culture has changed since this book was written to a larger degree, it is fascinating to learn about what it once was. An amazing book that everyone should read. I cannot wait to see the movie.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R1I2XA1RD8GUCQ	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing Book	Jodi Picoult is one of the best writers out there. She writes with so much conviction, compassion and talent. This book was amazing. I was sad to see it end. The characters are so compelling, and the insight into the Amish community is fascinating. The ending was so unpredictable, and the emotional levels and different stories happening simultaneously to different characters made this book a gripping read. Picoult cannot write fast enough!	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R316KVMRE3JJGQ	0385319444	882427602	Lost in Translation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic	This book is a cannot put down, compelling read. It is one of the best books I've read in so many ways. The characters are fantastic, and so real. The historical aspects are presented in such a fascinating way --sculpted into the story so well. It is also a lesson in an entirely different culture. I hope Nicole Mones writes many more books -- though the research and attention to detail that went into this one must have taken years. There were so many plots and subplots in this book.	2001-08-16
US	48420158	R7V1ODAMJRKLZ	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For Everyone	This book should be required reading for life. Morrie has lessons to teach that everyone needs to hear. He is such a wonderful, loveable man, and the world is lucky to have all that which is shared in this book as a reference on living. I buy this book as a gift again and again, and refer to it often. It is truly beautiful.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R2TGTIEI73IP2R	0688177743	280607679	Keeping Faith: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing	This book is one of Picoult's best. It is gripping from beginning to end. I found my self captivated by the characters, and by the story of Faith. This book opens so many doors, and leaves the reader to find answers, while drawing in several compelling themes, plots and sub-plots. As always, the characters are addictive, and their ability to become self aware and develop throughout the book is a tribute to Picult's talent.  The ending, as always, left me wanting more.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R3OHM600SY65TY	0743422449	876610287	Mercy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Page Turner	As always, Jodi Picoult wrote an amazing book. The characters all develop incredibly, and a story line that could have gone either way ended up being compelling. the description of this book did not intrigue me, but since Picoult wrote it, I had to read it. And as always, I was not sorry I did. I did not like the characters as much as I have in her other books -- but I loved it none the less, and could not put it donwn.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R2PBWSWJALP4CS	0743201647	529957238	The Pleasing Hour	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining	This is a good, fast read. It is a coming of age novel for an American young woman spending time in France as an Au Pair. This book offers an excellent, compelling story, and insight into a foreign culture. It is a great story, and one I would recommend to anyone looking for a good, fulfilling read.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R15NHPP3R2KFCG	0446608718	892029045	Just Revenge	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the Best Books...	I've read in a long time. Dershowitz writes a book that asks a compelling moral question. The characters in this book are incredibly likeable, and it is amazing the way Dershowitz makes the reader feel compassion for a man who committed horrible and unforgiveable acts years ago. This story portrays two sides of an unthinkable, yet very real, historical tragedy. Does a person have the right to seak revenge on a person who years ago, during the Nazi era, committed unthinkable acts of malice? Read this book and you will be intrigued.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R2BELCY70QW0S3	0156005891	865843112	Eden Close	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent	Another one of Shreve's great works, the character of Eden Close is one I found myself feeling sad for, as well as many of the other characters. It seems they are stuck in the past, and need to find a way to relinquish it and not be so effected by it. It is a haunting book, and one that will effect the reader for days after finsihing it. It is beautifully written and compelling.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	RT75RS5CRYLMS	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Page Turner	As I read this book, I was amazed by the depth of characters. I found myself disliking almost everyone in the book, and feeling sorry for the main character. At times I got so annoyed with everyone for their inability to communicate that I wanted to put the book down for good but I couldn't. This book was a tragedy of the human condition  -- it was a lesson in cultural differences, and in the pressures people place on themselves. It depicted the worst in people, and yet it was a good book. It is not light reading, but it is a good read.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	RN66IZO8HSAQD	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Stuff	I read this book in one day while on vacation. As always, Ken Follett did his research and created compelling characters in a non-stop action situation. Although this was not my favorite book by him, this book was excellent. If you want an edge of your seat, fast paced novel that has a little bit of everything from crime, to romance, history and suspense, you have your book. If only he wrote faster.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R22DWF0XJIG16O	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast-Paced Thriller	If I want a fast=paced cannot put down thriller, Patterson never lets me down. This book was not as good as his Alex Cross novels, but nonetheless, it was fast paced and kept me guessing until the end. Patterson is a great writer, and really knows how to keep the pages turning. I look forward to more &quot;Women's Murder Club&quot; books. The main characters are good ones -- very real people.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R1939CERCZVI7D	0316678104	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Beautiful	This book is incredible. I could not put it down, and could not stop thinking about it for days after I finished it. I wished I had a whole pile of books that would be similar and as fulfilling. This story is about true love, passion, and it opens up questions of morality, trust and honesty. Anita Shreve portrays this time period so well, and builds the characters amazingly. She creates compelling people who you truly get to know and will be sad to see go. I highly recommend this book.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R2W2EUEE6FIEEK	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Breathtaking	Jodi Picoult is fantastic, and one of my favorite writers of all time. Whenever her books come out I rush to buy them and am always disappointed when I reach the last, always gripping, pages. This book left me with so many unanswered questions, but not in a disatisfied way. It left me wondering why people do the things they do sometimes, and it left me wanting to crawl inside the character's minds and understand why and how, and what would have happened if things were different. What a great read.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	RAYINK8L081W0	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fast Paced Thriller	This is a great book, although somewhat predictable. It is a frightening subject -- taking into question how well we know certain people. It is well written, and is hard to put down. It is one that is haunting, compelling, and poignant. Anita Shreve is a talented writer and this book portrays that.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	RDB2RC5FPNPT8	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Enjoyable	This is a good, light book that teaches a good deal about the time period in which it takes place. My only complaint is that I did not grow to feel compassion towards any of the characters. They all seem shallow. However, I found myself turning the pages of this book, compelled to read it to the end. When I put it down I was left satisfied, even if it was not as deep as I'd have liked.	2001-08-15
US	48420158	R7AT4FQ34CMZI	0670850993	725977597	Harvesting the Heart: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	WOW	This book was possibly Picoult's best. It was one that left you wondering what if? The ending left many unanswered questions, and I wanted to turn pages that weren't there. This book is the story of finding oneself. It is a story of love and heartbreak. It is a story that you will not soon forget.	2001-08-14
US	48420158	RDB50E6LY23FN	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious	This book is one of the funniest, silliest books. Far better than its counterpart, event hough both are great, I laughed out loud by myself on a rainy day as I read this book from cover to cover. I was turned off to the original book until seeing the movie. After that I rushed out, bought this, and had a great time reading it. Bridget Jones is a character everyone should be able to relate to, appreciate and laugh with.	2001-08-14
US	48420158	RYRSDYIVA03QX	0385319444	882427602	Lost in Translation	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fanastic	This book is a cannot put down, compelling read. It is one of the best books I've read in so many ways. The characters are fantastic, and so real. The historical aspects are presented in such a fascinating way --sculpted into the story so well. It is also a lesson in an entirely different culture. I hope Nicole Mones writes many more books -- though the research and attention to detail that went into this one must have taken years. There were so many plots and subplots in this book -- it is one I can invision myself picking up again at some point.	2001-08-14
US	48420158	RL55RGWSVCPXY	0141001844	739787521	Fiona Range	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Addictive	After reading this book, it is hard to understand how it received so many off color reviews. This book was amazing and nearly impossible to put down. Fiona was such a compelling and real character -- she said the things we all sometimes want to say, but cannot. True, she made many mistakes, with 20-20 hindsight, but this was a character who had been rejected, lied to, used and abused for most of her life. This book would make a great movie. It is about someone who never gives up, even if everyone else seems to have never believed in her. I wish there were more books like this out there -- With the happy ending.	2001-08-14
US	48420158	R2RWJJQN8UX3FO	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the Best Books of the Decade	This book was beautifully written. From the very beginning I found myself entrenched in the life of the main character/narator. The inside look at the life of Geisha is heart wrenching, as children were forced to become women without ever experiencing a childhood. Having been stolen from her home, and put through many trying experiences, Sayuri finds the ability and determination within herself to get through every situation, demonstrating the strength of the human spirit. <br />Characters are weaved throughout the book -- such as the Chairman, whose motives are kept secret until the end. Plots and themes are weaved throughout this story, as are pieces of Japanese history. As Sayuri grows from a child, to an intelligent and clever woman it is impossible not to be drawn to her, and to her life experiences. This is a book that everyone should read. It is one that comes to life, with the turn of every page characters are animated and real, and you will find yourself rooting for some, and wishing you could stop others in their tracks. An amazing work of fiction, a literary triumph that rarely comes around.	2001-08-14
US	48420158	R141U4FUQHQ8P8	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing	Jodi Picoult is one of the best writers out there. She writes with so much conviction, compassion and talent. This book was amazing. I was sad to see it end. The characters are so compelling, and the insight into the Amish community is fascinating. The ending was so unpredictable, and the emotional levels and different stories happening simultaneously to different characters made this book a gripping read. Picoult cannot write fast enough!	2001-08-14
