US	48446399	R1LORGCYA16MQL	0446527785	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Remarkable; a page-turner.	A BEND IN THE ROAD is one of the latest works offered by the famous bestselling romantic novelist, Nicholas Sparks. In this novel, we meet a small-town deputy sheriff by the name of Miles Ryan. His loving wife, Missy Ryan, was killed in a hit-and-run car accident mearly two years before the story begins. They have a young son, Jonah Ryan, who is now seven. Ever since Missy died, Miles has been trying to find the person who killed his wife. Both he and Jonah are completely devastated. Jonah takes it so hard that he starts to struggle in school as a result. All of his previous teachers have let him slip by because they felt bad for him.<br />Then comes along the charming, intelligent Sarah Andrews, Jonah's second grade teacher. Miss Andrews has also had a previous relationship that ended tragically, when her husband found out that she could not produce eggs and get pregnant so they could not start a family and he left her. Miss Andrews discovers that Jonah has a problem in school, and so she asks Miles to come in for a parent/teacher meeting. Miles and Miss Andrews gradually fall in love after that, and things for both Miles and Sarah start looking better, until Sarah uncovers the truth about Missy's death and confronts Miles about it...the tragedy starts to haunt their developing relationship.<br />This novel is not all just about romance, because it has some mystery in it, too. The ending is very shocking, and once you start reading A BEND IN THE ROAD, you can't put it down. I should also mention that this book is written in both third person narrative and first person narrative forms. In first person narrative, the person who killed Missy is telling their side of the story (you'll be able to tell the difference because first person is typed in italics). However, you don't really know who's speaking in first person until the end. If you enjoyed Nicolas Sparks's other novels (THE NOTEBOOK, A WALK TO REMEMBER, MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE, THE RESCUE), then you will definitelyenjoy A BEND IN THE ROAD. I also have to mention that this is my first Nicholas Sparks novel, and I admit that I've become a fan...I can't wait to read his other works! An excellent summertime read.	2002-06-03
US	48446399	RRC74U3WZASN9	0590742426	204770239	Jessi And The Dance School Phantom (The Baby-Sitters Club #42)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An interesting addition to the Baby Sitters Club series.	In \\"Jessi and the Dance School Phantom\\", Jessi is absolutely excited when she wins the lead role of Princess Aurora in her dance school's upcoming production of 'The Sleeping Beauty'. But then, Jessi starts getting threatening messages. Her ballet toe shoes are stolen. Her leotards are stolen. She keeps getting dirty looks from her classmates and they keep bumping into her and making her look bad in front of their teacher, Mme Noelle. The Baby-Sitters try to help Jessi find out who this mysterious phantom is and why she wants Jessi out of the show. Meanwhile, the Baby-Sitters are planning a big Pet show for the children of Stoneybrook, and a lot of other chaotic things start happening. It's a good book for those who like mysteries. I enjoyed it a lot.	2002-04-09
US	48446399	R346ELTDL04I5T	188616116X	438307618	Fans of the Millennium : The Backstreet Boys	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A keepsake!!	Defintely a must-own to your Backstreet Boys collection! FOR THE FANS OF THE MILLENNIUM is a book written by their fans, for the fans. It is a huge collection of stories, pictures, poetry, photos, etc., that BSB fans from around the world have sent in so this book could be published. It is absolutely amazing! Some fans tell about meeting the BSB, others write about concerts, there are drawings that fans have made, and tons more. Some of the stories and poems are very touching. And this book is huge with over 800 pages! It's one of the best BSB books you can find, along with their official book. This would make a great gift for any Backstreet fan! A little expensive, but most BSB fans would say that it is well-worth it. I totally agree. The Backstreet Boys are the greatest band in the world--not even N Sync can top them! It's a shame that N Sync fans are not loyal and devoted enough to publish a book like this. Long live the true Kings of Pop...keep the Backstreet Pride alive!!	2002-04-09
US	48446399	R310GF1E19V79O	B00005R8BM	700641788	Teen People	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Greatest magazine yet for teens!	If you haven't tried \\"Teen People\\" yet, then what are you waiting for? It's packed to the rim with celebrity info, beauty, the latest fashions, sex&body talk, help sections, real-life teen articles, movie/book/music/TV reviews, real-teen romance stories, sometimes fiction stories, games, prizes, cool contests, prom info, trends, college info, hororscopes, and so much more! One of my favorite sections in \\"Teen People\\" is the Star Tracks, because they show a whole bunch of photos of your favorite stars doing cool, wacky, and weird stuff! And it's not just a magazine for girls, because it's for both guys and girls...co-ed teen magazines are always cool! I like all the celebrity stuff, though I wish they would have less N Sync articles and photos...not everyone is a die-hard N Sync fan--they need to choose a wide variety of celebrities to interview and to feature in their magazine! And I just LOVE the annual list of \\"25 Hottest Stars Under 25\\", although usually someone from N Sync wins it, so that part is not cool. I also love the annual \\"What's Next?\\" list 'cause they always feature upcoming and rising stars like Aaron Carter, Ja Rule, Mandy Moore, Hayden Christensen, and Michelle Branch. Anyway, I could go on and on talking about how awesome this magazine is. I just recently subscribed to it and I love it! So why waste time reading this review? Go subscribe to \\"Teen People\\" magazine--NOW!!	2002-03-03
US	48446399	R202282H9YPOPK	0618154027	545294814	The Lord of the Rings Official Movie Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good book on the film.	THE LORD OF THE RINGS OFFICIAL MOVIE GUIDE was pretty good and it is a great keepsake for all fans of the movie. But only 120 pages long?! There should have been more photos and written details about the cast and crew. And they should have done more on the behind-the-scenes and making of the film. The movie guide book for James Cameron's TITANIC was better quality than this. At least in that book, they had more photos and stuff about the movie. Though I do have to say that the photographs that are in this book were all very well-done. They are large, colorful, and glossy. It's just that I feel that they needed to add more to it. I hope they plan to make a second edition, and add in all of the things they left out in this one. This is for serious fans of the movie only--though I also have to admit that THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING was excellent. If you are a serious fan of the movie and went to go see it more than three times, then this book is probably for you.	2002-02-03
US	48446399	R1WUWNPTGP6A4R	0590424939	57110844	Baby-Sitters Island Adventure (Baby-Sitters Club Super Special, 4)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Suspenseful novel for young readers	Although I am now 18 years old, I still enjoy looking back on my Baby-Sitters Club books and reading them over again just for fun. Baby-Sitters' Island Adventure is probably one of the best super specials, though they are all really good.<br />In Baby-Sitters Island Adventure, Dawn and Claudia have been taking sailing lessons for a while. When their instructors tell them they can sail without any counselors after a tied sailing race, Claudia and Dawn decide to race again for a rematch. But then, they decide to take some of the kids they baby-sit for (Becca Ramsey--Jessi's nine-year-old sister; nine-year-old Haley Braddock; four-year-old Jamie Newton, and Dawn's ten-year-old brother, Jeff), and just race from Stoneybrook to an island close by called Greenpoint Island and then have a picnic and come right back.<br />On the day of the race, the sky looks bright and clear. But while they are out in the water racing, there is a freak thunderstorm which makes Dawn's boat flood! The sailboats they are using are too small for all six of them but manage to make it to a small unknown island far off course. Now the other baby-sitters and the town of Stoneybrook are worried: How long can two teens with four young children last? But the real question is...did they all survive? And if they did, where ARE they?<br />In this thrilling novel you will learn all about learning how to survive while you are alone on an island (okay...so maybe not. But it's still a great read, especially for a boring summer day!). Ann M. Martin has done it again! Must read for all Baby-Sitters fans.	2002-01-09
US	48446399	R161W9IDEE69LS	0618129022	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (Movie Art Cover)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantasic novel trilogy and great book edition!	THE LORD OF THE RINGS is truly a classic trilogy novel. After reading THE HOBBIT, I wanted to know more and had to go and read TLOTR. I have to say that TLOTR was much better than THE HOBBIT! THE HOBBIT is an easier, more fun, and lighter story to read, so THE HOBBIT would be better for younger readers to enjoy. But THE LORD OF THE RINGS is more dark and there is a lot more adventure and action. Plus, it is longer. MUCH longer. Over 1,000 pages total.<br />THE LORD OF THE RINGS is the story of Frodo Baggins, the hobbit who leaves the quiet, peaceful hobbit-life of the Shire and goes off on an incredible journey to destroy the One Ring that his cousin, Bilbo Baggins, had left behind when he disappeared. Frodo must take the Ring across Middle-earth and throw it into the Cracks of Doom. Along for the adventure are Frodo's hobbit friends, Merry, Pippin, and Sam. Gandalf the old, wise wizard guides the way, and the hobbits receive help from Gimli the Dwarf, Legolas the Elf, Boromir of Gondor, and a tall, mysterious stranger named Strider. If Frodo does not destroy the Ring, then the Dark Lord who created the eleven Rings, could get it back and have the power to rule all others.<br />There are three parts to this trilogy: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, THE TWO TOWERS, and THE RETURN OF THE KING. There are six books in the three-part novel. The edition to this novel is pretty good. It contains all three LORD OF THE RINGS novels, and a whole lot more. On the covers, there are pictures from the film trilogy (THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING is in theaters now). Inside the book, you will find notes on the text from the publisher, a foreword to the second edition, and a prologue which has information about Hobbits, Middle-earth, etc. Also included in this edition are the complete appendices and an index. This one volume edition is a must have for all fans of THE LORD OF THE RINGS. It is a great travelling companion, too because instead of dragging along all three books, you can just take this one big one with you.<br />J.R.R. Tolkien has written a fantasy masterpiece. It is a classic and one of the best written novels ever. THE LORD OF THE RINGS tops my list along with the HARRY POTTER series (by J.K. Rowling), as the greatest fantasy stories ever. This novel and book edition is highly recommended.ke this one big one with you.<br />J.R.R. Tolkien has written a fantasy masterpiece. It is a classic and one of the best written novels ever. THE LORD OF THE RINGS tops my list along with the HARRY POTTER series (by J.K. Rowling), as the greatest fantasy stories ever. This novel and book edition is highly recommended.	2002-01-05
US	48446399	R2K7F7KKJFQ4WR	0060294655	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Read it in one day!	I loved this second book in THE PRINCESS DIARIES series so much that I read it all in one day! It's very hilarious and just a wonderful book. In the second &quot;diary&quot;, Mia tells how her life just keeps getting worse and worse a month after she finds out she is heir to the throne of that small European country, Geonvia. It's bad enough that Mia's mother has been dating her algebra teacher for the past month. But now Mia's mother confesses that she is pregnant with his kid and they are getting married! Then Mia receives a letter from a &quot;secret admirer&quot; from her school telling her that he's loved her even before he found out she was a princess...which gets Mia guessing who it could be (hoping that it's her best friend's older brother, Michael - who seems to have an interest in her), and whether or not her father has secretly bethrolled her to some other prince she doesn't even know! While all this is happening, Grandmere insists that she get this interview from some famous interviewer and Mia ends up spilling a lot of stuff about what goes on in her school - and making some of the students angry at her, especially her best friend, Lilly. Then Grandmere tries to turn her mother's wedding into this huge giant glamerous one with a ton of celebrities even though her mother and algebra teacher only wanted a very small one. Even Lilly ends up falling for Mia's cousin, Hank, when she helps him get a contract for being an underwear model! IN THE SPOTLIGHT is full of surprises and laughs. It's a great teen novel and it is written in diary form so you really get an insight of Mia's life as a princess. The book is a fabulous sequel to the first, which I loved as well. I am hoping that Meg Cabot writes a third novel to this awesome series and if she does, then I will definitely read it. If you've read THE PRINCESS DIARIES (and enjoyed it), then I highly recommend IN THE SPOTLIGHT. This book is great! :-)	2001-11-22
US	48446399	R3FDT9RJXDW43I	B00005R8BM	700641788	Teen People	Books	5	6	13	N	N	Fun, entertaining magazine.	I agree with the other reviewers saying that TEEN PEOPLE magazine usually just has *N SYNC and Britney as the main celebs in the magazine. Sometimes they have variety, but in almost every TEEN PEOPLE magazine, I have read at least one article or seen at least one photo of *N SYNC and Britney. I like Britney Spears, but I don't like *N SYNC. I wish they had more Backstreet Boys articles and photos in their magazine (that's why my favorite issue is the December 2000/Januray 2001 issue). And what I really can't stand is that one member from *N SYNC (usually it's Justin Timberlake - ahhh!), who wins the Teen People 25 Hottest Celebrities Under 25 lists. Anyways, the other stuff that's in this magazine can be basically found in just about every other magazine for teenagers like fashion tips, beauty, sex, guys, true stories blah, blah, blah. I usually just skip all that and just flashforward to the entertainment and celebrities sections. Those are my favorite as long as there's no *N SYNC! (...) TEEN PEOPLE is a great magazine despite the fact that it's just your average teen magazine and that it has too much *N SYNC and too much fashion and everything. As for the celebrity and entertainment part, it's pretty good and highly recommend if you are a teenager or know a teenager who might like this kind of magazine.	2001-11-08
US	48446399	R3GPPF2GXP9QQJ	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An enchanting, magical, fantasy thrill ride!	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE is definitely much better than what I had expected it to be. My only complaint: Why did I wait so long to finally read this? I just finished reading this first book in the series and it is very, very good. We all know the story of Harry Potter, but for those who don't, this book introduces us to the world of Harry Potter. It's about a young orphan boy who lives with his mean aunt, uncle, and cousin. His bedroom is this small closet-like room at the bottom of the stairs and he hasn't had a birthday in thirteen years! But everything changes when Harry gets a letter from Hogwarts school, a school to train kids with wizardery and witchcraft. When he leaves to attend the school to train to become a wizard, he learns that there is more to life and even ends up making friends and learns how to create spells. This is a very fun relaxing book that is easy to read. It is long (and the other books are even longer), but it is fast-paste and extremely entertaining. I like how J.K. Rowling created all her unique characters from her own imagination. It is great fantasy with a British twist, since J.K. Rowling is British. It's the first book in the series (like I mentioned before) and a true classic. I love the way J.K. Rowling writes so much that I look up to her as an idol because I want to become a writer someday, too. I haven't gotten to the other books yet but I definitely will soon. And I can't wait to see the film, either because it looks just as excellent as the books and it looks like it follows the books pretty well, too. I have to say that I am not an obsessed Harry Potter fan and I don't really care about all the hype or the games and toys, etc., I just enjoy reading the books and will see (and probably enjoy) the highly anticipated film, too. If you haven't read this book yet than what are you waiting for? You'll love it so much that you'll want to desparately read the other books and see the film! Read this today! :-)	2001-10-20
US	48446399	R2J779GIVXQ43L	0141304979	350221871	Within Reach: My Everest Story (Nonfiction)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inspirational and solidy-written.	WITHIN REACH: MY EVEREST STORY is the true story of a teen mountain climber by the name of Mark Pfetzer. This book has been written in journal form, as he had wrote about his adventures while trying to summit Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world. He actually tried to summit twice, but failed both times. Still, Pfetzer never gave up. That's probably the most inspirational and most important part of his story; it's a must read for all teenagers. The book talks about all the struggles Pfetzer had while trying to summit Mount Everest, and all of his personal feelings and thoughts. It's packed with adventure and action, too (believe it or not) because when you read his book, you actually feel like you're trying to climb Mount Everest with him. It even has a list of all the mountains he climbed and other facts about them, plus awesome photos! Pfetzer is an inspiration to all teens, intelligent, brave, and more like a teen hero, even though he did not summit Mount Everest. Pfetzer had a dream, and he never gave up on it. If you've ever had a dream and made it come true (or are trying to make it come true), then WITHIN REACH: MY EVEREST STORY is a book for you!	2001-10-17
US	48446399	RVDAO6R1VKQQF	0385729537	603717857	A Mother's Gift	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Not bad.	Being a fan of Britney's music (but not much of a fan of HER), I found this book in a bookstore recently and decided to try it. It's actually pretty good. It's a little awkward, since Britney Spears is probably the last person in the world you could possibly imagine writing a book, but she's not a bad writer. A MOTHER'S GIFT actually keeps you're interest, and you wanna find out what happens to the main character, Holly, and see if her dreams actually do come true. This book is about a 14-year-old girl named Holly from a small town who dreams of becoming a famous successful singer...the only problem is that her mother, Wanda, can't afford it. But with the help of Holly's boyfriend, Holly gets into a top music school full of snobby wealthy students and eventually makes all her dreams come true. It's your typical teen novel but having Britney Spears and her own mother writing it makes it special and unique. If you are a Britney Spears fan or have ever had a dream goal, then read A MOTHER'S GIFT...it's inspirational! :-)	2001-10-11
US	48446399	R3I6COXJEAX94Y	006440899X	934909833	Don't Forget Me! (The Nightmare Room, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book is pretty good.	I've always been a huge fan of R.L. Stine's works - he's one of the best authors for kids' books and one of my role models, as I hope to someday become an author. My favorite R.L. Stine series are the original GOOSEBUMPS series and the original FEAR STREET series. But I also think GOOSEBUMPS 2000 and GHOSTS OF FEAR STREET are pretty good, too. I've read this first book in his new series THE NIGHTMARE ROOM, and I can already tell that this new series will be as original, exciting, chilling, and solidly written as the original GOOSEBUMPS series was.<br />In this first book, DON'T FORGET ME, Danielle thinks her brother, Peter, is so annoying. She wishes she was an only child. Then she and her family move into this creepy old house and strange things start happening to Peter. He's starting to forget things and he keeps hearing strange voices in the house calling to him. It's another one of R.L. Stine's famous haunted house adventures, but just as good and original as all the others with lots of twists and surprises. <br />And if you like this new book series, then also check out the brand-new TV show based on the books (R.L. Stine is even one of the exclusive producers!) also called &quot;The Nightmare Room&quot;, which airs every Saturday morning on the Kids' WB - it's great, too! Today's episode even starred Justin Bertfield from TV's &quot;Malcolm In The Middle&quot; and it was so cool! The TV show is a must see and the book series is a must read! Great for all ages. :-)	2001-10-09
US	48446399	R1AT0SESG5SN29	0689817851	160336401	Go Ask Alice	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best of teen angst books!	GO ASK ALICE is a really amazing novel. I have read the book before a while ago, and now I'm reading it again with one of my senior English classes. This novel is actually a diary based on the real-life story of an anonymous 15-year-old drug user. Alice seems pure and innocent in the beginning of the novel, but once you start getting into it she becomes addicted to drugs and they change her life forever for the worst. Of course, Alice isn't her real name. In fact, the editors of the novel changed all of the characters' names, dates, places, and some events to keep the privacy and respect of this girl's real-life family and friends. It's stunning and the writing is incredible. The novel shows her pain and what she is going through while high and on drugs. I highly recommend this novel to all teens and their parents. I don't really recommend this book to children, because it could get a little tense for them and maybe too difficult to read and understand. But this novel is great for ages 11 and up. A must read novel!	2001-09-13
US	48446399	RMC8RXTW5SNP7	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun summer reading book for teen girls.	Teenage girls will especially love this book, THE PRINCESS DIARIES. I know because I am a teenage girl and I loved it. After seeing the new Disney film, I had to go out and read this book. If you know the plot of the film, then you basically know the plot of the book. It's about a young modern-day teen girl named Mia who is kind of a klutz and lives with her mother. Then she finds out she is actually a princess of a small European town called Genovea and must learn to act like a princess so she can be heir to the throne. This book is exciting and interesting with a unique storyline. If you like good teen, fantasy novels, then I definitely recommend THE PRINCESS DIARIES. Also check out the Disney film starring Julie Andrews - it's just as amazing!:)	2001-08-29
US	48446399	R2Y3NDDXKH5GW8	0375813187	653062227	Jurassic Park III (Junior Novelization)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	The movie is better!	I loved JURASSIC PARK III. When I saw it in theaters opening night, I had to go out and read this book. Well, I did and I have to say that it was kind of stupid. I mean, this was geared toward younger readers. What about adults and teenagers? They should make a JURASSIC PARK III book that's suitable for adults and teenagers. This is a good story - don't get me wrong - but the book itself seemed too childish. They should make a more difficult version of JURASSIC PARK III for the movie's adult and teenage fans to enjoy! All in all, good summer reading book for the kids. Adults and teenagers: Wait for the more difficult reading-level version to come out.	2001-07-26
US	48446399	RCAFIVIHR3NXO	0590483544	737277716	Phantom of the Auditorium (Goosebumps #24)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	One of my favorites in the whole series!	Even though I'm a teenager, I still love the Goosebumps series. This one is called 'Phantom of the Auditorium' and it's about a girl named Brooke and her best friend, Zeek. Brooke and Zeek never get scared. So when they win the two main roles of a very scary play their school's drama club is putting on, they are very excited. Soon Brooke thinks Zeek is getting too into his role of the Phantom, when everyone thinks Zeek is pulling all these pranks on the play. Then Brooke and Zeek discover a hidden room underneath the stage where they think a real phantom lives. And when Brian moves to town...even stranger things start happening. If you love the Goosebumps books, then I definitely recommend this one!	2001-07-02
US	48446399	R15NCEOBA8VG4I	0553570226	586972301	Falling for Lucas (Sweet Valley High)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very solidly-written.	I am a Sweet Valley High (and University) fan. This one is called 'Falling For Lucas', and it's a Super Sepcial Edition. It's really good. The Sweet Valley High gang are away on a skiing vacation. Jessica and Lila both fall for the same guy - a cute skiing instructor. Then Elizabeth gets worried when she learns Todd has been buried in a huge avalanche! Can Liz save Todd? Will the guy end Jess and Lila's friendship? Find out by reading this book. The ending may surprise you!	2001-07-01
US	48446399	RW48LZYTJM084	0590568973	992197158	The Haunted School (Goosebumps, No. 59)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	One of my favorites from Goosebumps!	I think 'The Haunted School' is a really good book. It's not all that scary, but it's pretty great and keeps your interest. This one is about Tommy Frazer. His dad just got remarried; now he's got a new mom, and they moved to a new town so he's also got a new home and school. He winds up at Bell Middle School, which at first seems to be a normal school. He meets two kids, and wants desperately to impress them so maybe he can become friends with them. Then, when he signs up for the school's dance commitee, he starts to hear strange noises - like kids calling for help - as he gets some cans of paint. Then, weirder things start happening when he and the boy he made friends with find a room after getting into an elevator that goes sideways instead of up and down, with statutes of kids from the first class of Bell Middle School. They even enter an all gray world where everything - and everyone - are gray! Are all the gray children ghosts? Well, there's only one way to find out...! Read this book!	2001-06-30
US	48446399	R26XI2DDWKURDO	059045367X	479187489	Monster Blood (Goosebumps, No 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Still one of my favorites!	Goosebumps is definitely better than Harry Potter. This one is book #3 and called 'Monster Blood'. It's a four-part saga, and one of the best in the whole series. 'Monster Blood' is about a kid named Evan Ross. His family is moving to Atlanta, and he has to stay with his creepy, deaf great Aunt Kathryn, while his parents are picking out a new house down in Atlanta. Aunt Kathryn lives with her black cat, Sarabeth, and she is always talking to her - like Sarabeth is actually a human! Then Evan meets a girl named Andy, and they become friends. They go to an antique toy store and find a can of Monster Blood. They think it's a fun toy, so they buy the can. But it turns out that the can of Monster Blood is real and it starts to grow and grow and will not stop growing! That's when all the trouble begins...well, I don't want to ruin the whole book for you so you'd better go read it to find out what happens to Evan, Andy, Aunt Kathryn, and Sarabeth!	2001-06-30
US	48446399	R2D6NPOK6J14WG	0140376402	202943075	Out of Nowhere	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Interesting And Unique	OUT OF NOWHERE is quite different from most books that I've read over the past. It's not very well-known, but I went to my town's library one time and I saw this book on one of the racks and it caught my eye so I picked it up and decided to try it. Well, I did and it turned out to be very good. I never even realized I'd be interested in this kind of book, but as soon as I started to read it, I just couldn't put it down. I wanted to see what would happen at the end. <br />This book is full of emotions but with hardly any action. There are some humorous parts, but this is more like a serious book rather than comedy. Anyways, this book is about a 13-year-old boy named Harley who just got abandoned in an Arizona desert by his outgoing mother and her boyfriend. Soon, Harley comes across an abandoned dog, Ish, who he befriends. He also meets May, a woman in her late 40s, Singer, 16-year-old girl, and Bill, May's tenent. The five have their own problems they need to learn how to face.<br />This book was solidly written. If you're looking for a good book to read this summer, then go pick this one up. I highly recommend it for any teen.	2001-06-25
US	48446399	R254CHM8ML4V53	0553566385	364815512	In Love with the Enemy (Sweet Valley High)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Can't get enough of Sweet Valley High!	I just love the Sweet Valley High books. This one is called IN LOVE WITH THE ENEMY, and it's book #1 in the 'Betrayel' saga. In this one, Jessica falls in love with the wrong guy (as usual). She's dating Sweet Valley High's quarterback star, Ken Matthews. But then she falls for hot and sexy Christain Gorman, when he teaches her how to surf. Little does Jessica know that Christain is the the leader of Palisades High's most violent gang - and they're biggest rivals is Sweet Valley High! It's very exciting and romantic. Definitely one to pick up and read if you're a Sweet Valley High fan or enjoy reading romantic/tragedies. Awesome read! Solidly written.	2001-06-22
US	48446399	RFN85RCLUFHIO	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Diary of Anne Frank: A Guide To Life	THE DIARY OF ANNE FRANK is one  of the best novels I've ever read. But it's not a novel; it's actually a diary of a real Jewish-German girl who died in a concentration camp during the Holocoust. The reason why some people may not like this book is because they think it is lacking diolouge or creativity for a novel. But this (I don't think) was ever meant to be a novel. This was meant to be a personal, private written-record for Anne Frank herself and herself only.<br />In this novel (excuse me, &quot;diary&quot;), you will learn all about Anne Frank: Her feelings, thoughts, hopes, dreams, and share her adventures. You will also learn what it was like for Anne and her family while hiding from the Nazi Soldiers and even what it was like for Anne to receive her first kiss and real romance from Peter, a young boy who's family was also hiding from the Nazi in the same room as Anne Frank's family.<br />Read this novel and you will see why something as horrible and unforgettable as the Holocoust should never happen again. Anne Frank was one of the millions who suffered death and pain during the Holocoust for no reason other than the fact that they were &quot;different&quot; from the rest of the Germans. It's an unforgettable classic that you will read over and over again and never get bored. In fact, if you read it over and over again, each time you do, you may find something new that you didn't catch the last time you read it. Beautiful story and a novel I truly recommend as a must have.<br />P.S.: I also saw the new ABC miniseries movie, ANNE FRANK, a couple days ago. That was excellent, too. It was very moving and the acting was supurb. Hopefully, ABC will put it out on video and DVD. If they do, I will definitely buy it and you should, too (if you enjoyed the book!). Both the novel and movie brought me to tears - and I can't say that to just about anything!	2001-05-22
US	48446399	R2XBEWT956B0A4	157544139X	111630502	General Hospital: The Complete Scrapbook	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A MUST HAVE FOR ANY GENERAL HOSPITAL FAN!	Anyone who loves the Soap, &quot;General Hospital&quot;, must get this book! This scrapbook includes fabulous &quot;G.H.&quot; photos and stories of the show. It even has pics of Jonathan Jackson! WARNING: With this book, you can easily scare your friends and people you know by your new-found knowledge of the show and prove that you're REALLY obsessed! Another great &quot;General Hospital&quot; book you have to get is the offical trivia book. In that book, you can actually TEST your obsession! Well, this is a really great book and a must for any &quot;General Hospital&quot; fan.	2001-05-19
US	48446399	RLCQ4ROD205SO	0671868314	313986335	The Betrayal (Fear Street Saga Trilogy, No. 1)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	HORRIFYING AND DISTURBING...AND THIS IS JUST THE BIGINNING	This is the book where R.L. Stine finally reveals why Fear Street is so haunting and terrifying. THE BETRAYAL starts out in the 1900s in Shadyside, Massachusetts. Nora Goode is a young girl who just lost her lover, Daniel Fear, in a terrible house fire that fire fighters couldn't even put out. Nora knows the terrible secrets of Fear Street and must let everybody know before it's too late.<br />She's the narrator, and she starts writing a book about the street. Her story starts out during the 1600s in Wickham, Massachusetts - a time when witchcraft is a very dangerous gift to posess. Anyways, a young pretty girl named Susannah Goode lives with her family in the village and soon becomes attracted to Edward Fier the son of Wickham's &quot;governer&quot;, Benjamin Fier. When Benjamin learns that Edward wants to marry Susannah because they are in love, Benjamin falsely accuses Susannah and her mother of practicing witchcraft because he believes Susannah is &quot;not a perfect match&quot; for Edward. So he ends up burning Susannah and her mother at stake. Furious, Susannah's father - who really does practice witchcraft - puts an evil spell on the Fier family that they will all die and pay for stealing his innocent family away from him.<br />The first part in this saga ends when Edward finds out the truth about Susannah - it's several years later and Edward has been married to another woman - and her mother.<br />THE BETRAYAL is a really great book and a must read for all FEAR STREET fans. It's so good you can't put it down 'til you've finished. I really recommend it, and I also recommend the other two parts in this saga: THE SECRET and THE BURNING. Awesome, fun books to read for a relaxing evening!	2001-05-14
US	48446399	R3UT6PWT40NH9S	0553566954	788211026	Behind Closed Doors (Sweet Valley University(R))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best Sweet Valley University romance novel!	I absolutely loved BEHIND CLOSED DOORS...it was such a romantic book! In this one, Jessica is mistakenly signed up to take a course in Medevil History when she asked for Film History. But then she learns that her Medevil History professor, the new, young, hot, sexy, mysterious, and popular, Louis Miles, feels attraction toward her...and she begins to feel attraction AND confusion when she knows he likes her but keeps trying to push her away because of some dark secret from his past.<br />And all this while, Elizabeth and Todd are trying to track down who attacked Todd. And Winston cheats on his pyhsics exam because he is failing pyhsics and if he does not pass, then his parents will send him to a different school and he won't be able to see Denise, his girlfriend, anymore. Tom goes off to Las Vages for a reporting job.<br />Great, well-written novel! I congradaulate Laurie John for an excellent novel and a terrific addition to the SWEET VALLEY UNIVERSITY series. If you're an SVU fan, this is definitely for you! The romance and affection between Jessica and Professor Louis Miles will have you engrossed 'til the end and be begging for more! I totally recommend this book.	2001-05-12
US	48446399	RNB7ZFLAGHXKY	0553566962	252792529	The Other Woman (SWEET VALLEY UNIVERSITY)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THIS IS SO SAD...BUT PART 3 IS EVEN MORE SAD!	THE OTHER WOMAN is actually better than BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, partly because in this book, Jessica and Professor Louis Miles finally discovers they need each other and tension is really heating up between the two of them. I really loved this book because it is just so moving and emotional that you cannot do anything else but read this book.<br />Todd and Elizabeth are still investigating some problems with why Todd was kicked off the basketball team. Winston gets busted cheating on that physics exam and his parents end up telling him that they are going to send him to Boot Camp to try and shape up and start acting responsible and everything. Tom is still away in Las Vegas doing his reporting thing. Lila and Bruce decide to move in and live together! Also, at the end, Jessica meets her worst enemy (and Professor Louis Miles's biggest fear): His crazy, insane wife, Chloe who warns Jessica to stay away from her husband.<br />In this thrilling passionate novel, you will read all about what a true love affair really is like. Jessica and Louis's passionate love affair is so bittersweet and will have you bawling at the ending. But part three in this saga is even more tradgic and sad...DEADLY ATTRACTION. Read all three parts of this exciting saga!	2001-05-12
US	48446399	R2E3ZNZM6VDXTQ	0553481002	481003403	Todd Runs Away (Sweet Valley Twins)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A GREAT BOOK FOR PRE-TEENS!	Hey, all of you pre-teens out there! Looking for a great read? Then how about trying the SWEET VALLEY TWINS AND FRIENDS series? This particular book in this series is TODD RUNS AWAY. Todd Wilkins has always been a great basketball player (he's one of his middle school's team star players) and so his father has always been happy with him. But when Todd gets signed up for a special creative writing class at school, Todd gets a great teacher named Mark and learns he has other talents, too!<br />Soon Todd starts spending more time with his writing than playing basketball...and his father is NOT happy in the least (Todd's father wants Todd to someday play in the NBA pros). And then Mr. Wilkins's ends up blaming Mark for Todd's messing up during his games and even tries to get Mark fired!<br />Todd is angry with his father and all of Todd's friends are angry with him because they think Todd wants Mark to get fired (all of Todd's friends like the new teacher). So when Todd gets suspended from the basketball team because he cut school by walking off of school grounds, he has to make a decision about whether or not to drop out of the writing class. And when Todd can't seem to figure that one out, he only has one choice left...running away from home.<br />TODD RUNS AWAY is a really good book because not only is it entertaining, but it also gives an important lesson: Running away is not the best answer to all your problems. In fact, running away can make your problems worse. This book was well-written, and realistic, too. Becuase this kind of thing could happen to just about anybody.<br />This is probably still my favorite out of the SWEET VALLEY TWINS AND FRIENDS series. And Todd's final decision at the end may surprise you! So excellent and fun. The perfect book to read on a boring summer day when you have nothing else to do. Read this book and enjoy!	2001-05-09
US	48446399	RFFC3VCJISZRW	0743418344	354786688	Loose Ends (Roswell, 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book actually based on the Television series!	I love LOOSE ENDS; it's a really great book. LOOSE ENDS is more based on the &quot;Pilot&quot; episode of &quot;Roswell&quot; rather than any of the other episodes. The book (and the TV series) is about a modern-day teenage girl named Liz Parker who works as a waitress at her father's restaurant called the Crashdown Cafe in her home of Roswell, New Mexico. One day while she is working, there are two customers who get into a sudden fight and one of them has a gun. By accident, the man with the gun ends up shooting Liz and she is supposed to die! But then a guy from her Roswell High School named Max Evans, saves her life by healing her with his hands and mind (he's an alien, but nobody knows that yet). After that, Liz and Max are connected and fall in love. <br />&quot;Roswell&quot; is a really great show on TV. I love it; it's one of my favorites (Jason Behr who plays Max Evans is incredibly hot and talented!). And this book is a great way to find out more about the show if you are a little skeptical about watching it as a regular &quot;Roswell&quot; fan. Solid and well-written. I liked how Greg Cox carefully described each and every character and event that happened in the episode. Really awesome novel - I was so engrossed in it that I couldn't put it down 'til I was finished! - and this is a definite must have and must read to all &quot;Roswell&quot; fans.<br />I actually kind of like this better than the ROSWELL HIGH series that Melinda Metz wrote because it is more based on the TV show. I can already tell this will be an excellent, new and upcoming book series! It's also a great read if you like sci-fic novels. Enjoy!	2001-05-09
US	48446399	R29MF3V7ENVMF0	0743418344	354786688	Loose Ends (Roswell, 1)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A book actually based on the Television series!	I love LOOSE ENDS; it's a really great book. LOOSE ENDS is more based on the &quot;Pilot&quot; episode of &quot;Roswell&quot; rather than any of the other episodes. The book (and the TV series) is about a modern-day teenage girl named Liz Parker who works as a waitress at her father's restaurant called the Crashdown Cafe in her home of Roswell, New Mexico. One day while she is working, there are two customers who get into a sudden fight and one of them has a gun. By accident, the man with the gun ends up shooting Liz and she is supposed to die! But then a guy from her Roswell High School named Max Evans, saves her life by healing her with his hands and mind (he's an alien, but nobody knows that yet). After that, Liz and Max are connected and fall in love. <br />&quot;Roswell&quot; is a really great show on TV. I love it; it's one of my favorites (Jason Behr who plays Max Evans is incredibly hot and talented!). And this book is a great way to find out more about the show if you are a little skeptical about watching it as a regular &quot;Roswell&quot; fan. Solid and well-written. I liked how Greg Cox carefully described each and every character and event that happened in the episode. Really awesome novel - I was so engrossed in it that I couldn't put it down 'til I was finished! - and this is a definite must have and must read to all &quot;Roswell&quot; fans.<br />I actually kind of like this better than the ROSWELL HIGH series that Melinda Metz wrote because it is more based on the TV show. I can already tell this will be an excellent, new and upcoming book series! It's also a great read if you like sci-fic novels. Enjoy!	2001-05-09
US	48446399	R2HF4I142ZJGSM	055357051X	795010267	Elizabeth and Todd Forever (Sweet Valley University(R))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Todd and Elizabeth forever!	ELIZABETH AND TODD FOREVER is such a sweet and romantic book; how could all of you SVU fans not like it?! Todd Wilkins and Elizabeth Wakefield make the perfect, cutest couple ever...This book is realistic and it brings up a great message which is that you never forget your first love...no matter how hard you try! An awesome read and a must for any Sweet Valley University fan.	2001-05-08
US	48446399	R2IJ705PDFJCWY	0571205690	390866836	Almost Famous	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Wanna pretend you're in the film and memorize the script?	Then this is the book you have to get! I loved the film, ALMOST FAMOUS (so much, that I went to go see it at the movie theaters towards the end of it's playing by myself - usually, I go to the movies with at least one other person). ALMOST FAMOUS is really the best film I've ever seen in my life. I can't believe it only won one Academy Award and didn't get nominated for Best Picture! Oh well, if you wanna see the exact Oscar-winning script from the film than this is the best thing you can get. I went out to the bookstore recently and bought this and I was not disappointed in the least! I loved every moment of it. In fact, I am trying to memorize the script so when I buy the video, I can repeat every single word they say in the film. This script captures all of the highlight moments from the film and if you missed a line or two while watching the movie, you can probably find it here in this book. Also, the intro written by the author is pretty cool, too. Also, the author has an interview with Cameron Crowe himself, and Crowe explains many parts of the film that were most confusing to you. Plus, there are some great memorable photos directly from the shooting of the movie (though they are all in black and white) to add to this true ALMOST FAMOUS collectors' item. A great read and a must have for all ALMOST FAMOUS fans! Trust me, you won't be disappointed.	2001-05-08
US	48446399	R2U0IE8CBAWAH1	0061066249	585581836	7th Heaven: Four Years with the Camden Family	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Best &quot;7th Heaven&quot; book you can find!	I absolutely adore the TV show, &quot;7th Heaven&quot; - it's my favorite! And this book, 7TH HEAVEN: FOUR YEARS WITH THE CAMDEN FAMILY, is a great resource book to check up all of the past episodes for all 4 seasons of the show. In this book, it has detailed summaries for each and every episode, along with facts and photos of the terrific TV fam. I bought this book at a bookstore recently and I have to say that I am sure glad I did. This book is a must-have for any true &quot;7th Heaven&quot; fan. Also, in the middle, there is a section with full-page color photos of each member in the original cast with short bios...very helpful. Though this is a little out-dated now because of the 5th season, it's still a fabulous book. <br />But one thing that was disappointing about this book was the fact that the author didn't list the guest stars, who they played, what episodes they were in, photos, or short bios of them. This show isn't just about the Camden family...some of the guest stars have had some major roles on the show and I thought the author was gonna talk a little about them, too!<br />Still, great read for all &quot;7th Heaven&quot; fans!	2001-04-23
US	48446399	R3UZUN905GOC9J	0451408950	350488345	The Heart and Soul of Nick Carter	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Honest, loyal, and true...the best Nick Carter book around.	I love the Backstreet Boys and I've been a huge fan since '97, and I'm an even MORE huger fan of Nick Carter. THE HEART AND SOUL OF NICK CARTER: SECRETS ONLY A MOTHER KNOWS is one of the best books you can find on Nick Carter. Though it's a little out-dated now I believe (the book was made in like, '98 and the Backstreet Boys since then have done a lot more plus made two new albums MILLENNIUM and BLACK &amp; BLUE), I still think this book gives an accurate bio of Nick and his amazingly talented family.<br />There is not one dull or boring moment while reading this book. Jane Carter carefully describes what their family life was like both in the past and present, along with the ancestors and family relatives. When you're reading this book, you really do feel like you're apart of the &quot;Carter Clan&quot;, as Jane calls her family. You'll laugh and cry and cheer throughout this book. And even though I'm a huge fan and have never been to a Backstreet concert or seen them live in person, I now feel a lot closer to Nick Carter, and not just him, but to Kevin, AJ, Brian, and Howie as well.<br />Jane Carter also writes about the troubles she and Nick went through while going to auditions, performing in front of audiences during Nick's pre-Backstreet years, and even meeting AJ and Howie for the first time. She also writes about the very first song Nick ever sang to her - &quot;Bridge Over Troubled Waters&quot; - and why that was so important to her. She writes about the ups and downs her family had to go through to help Nick achieve his dream as a successful entertainer, which I think he has now successed!<br />Besides, the fabulous well-written bio, she also adds a ton of family photos for us fans to look at and enjoy and even a Nick Carter quiz at the ending (I took it and got a perfect score without even looking at the answers!). This book will answer all of your Nick Carter questions. And though it may only be for Nick Carter fans, I'm sure many Backstreet fans will enjoy this as well. I actually think you don't even need to be a Backstreet fan to enjoy this book. Maybe if you read it you would understand Nick Carter and his Backstreet fellas and would start to appreciate him more and see him as a real person. I also don't think Jane Carter brags about her son; she is proud of his major accomplishments and what he has done for the family. And she isn't afraid to show it.<br />I think Jane Carter and Bob Carter are the perfect role models for parents everywhere. They show love and affection to their family and to each other. They try to help achieve their childrens' dreams and do not discourage them. They do not do drugs or commit violence or abuse each other or their children. The Carter Clan is a beautiful family and very gifted and talented. I think they should all be respected and people should stop trashing them because that is just wrong when you don't even know a thing about them. Maybe after you read THE HEART AND SOUL OF NICK CARTER you will change your mind about trashing this family and start to respect them. Great read. I loved all the photos. If you're a fan of books then this is definitely one you must try!	2001-04-19
US	48446399	R16W96K01X4EDF	0451409205	340277383	Aaron Carter: The Little Prince of Pop: The Story Behind my Son's Rise to Fame	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Best Aaron Carter book ever!!	If you're an Aaron Carter fan (like myself) how could you not like or have read this book? This book was written by Aaron Carter's mother, Jane Carter. Some people may think Mrs. Carter is a &quot;stage mother&quot; who's too proud of her sensational singin' sons. But that's not true! You will find in AARON CARTER: THE LITTLE PRINCE OF POP that his mother cares about him deeply and that she is just proud of him and Nick because of how hard they worked at their careers...so stop dissing this amazingly talented family when you don't even know a thing about them and what they're really like! Anyways, in this book, you will find some interesting and cool facts and stories that you never knew about Aaron or his family before. You will also find lots and lots of awesome and cute photos of Aaron. There's a whole section in the middle with color full-color, page-size photos and throughout the rest of this book you will find various black and white small photos. By reading this book, you will get the true inside-scoop on Aaron. And, as a bonus, you will find some stories on Aaron's big bro, Nick Carter (Backstreet Boys) and find some hot photos of him, too! A great read and a must for any Aaron Carter fan. I totally recommend it. And, if you love Backstreet Boys, than I also suggest you getting THE HEART AND SOUL OF NICK CARTER: SECRETS ONLY A MOTHER CAN TELL, also written by Jane Carter. Check both books out - both are really great. I love Nick and Aaron Carter!!!	2001-04-08
US	48446399	R1CUCWJ7NNWALX	0553492357	809924198	Last Wish (Sweet Valley High)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best SWEET VALLEY HIGH books!	I loved LAST WISH. It was such an incredible book that I couldn't put it down until I finished it (I had borrowed it from my town's library). In LAST WISH, Elizabeth and Jessica Wakefield are turning 17 years old. Elizabeth wants to throw Jessica a birthday party that Jessica will never forget...and Jessica wants to do the same for Elizabeth, unknowingly that they both want to give each other birthday parties! Through all their secret birthday party planning, it all seems to go smoothly and perfectly until an earthquake shakes Sweet Valley and ruins it all! To find out what happens, you must read this book. An excellent addition to your SWEET VALLEY HIGH collection. Also, check out parts 2 EARTHQUAKE and 3 AFTERSHOCK, to find out the conclusion of this awesome SWEET VALLEY HIGH Super Special Saga.	2001-04-07
US	48446399	R40YCTJ6CNLAI	0553493086	612051360	Dropping Out (Sweet Valley University(R))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My favorite from SWEET VALLEY UNIVERSITY series.	DROPPING OUT is probably the best book from the SWEET VALLEY UNIVERSITY series. My favorite character in the whole SWEET VALLEY series - each and every one of them - is Todd Wilkins. He seems like the most realistic character of them all and if he were a real person, he'd be a really cool (and cute, from the pictures on the covers) guy. In DROPPING OUT, Todd finally starts to realize how much independence means to him. His father had forced him into majoring in Business, but he didn't do well in that because that's not what he wanted to do for a future career. So he decides to drop out of Sweet Valley University and get a job working as a bartender at a local bar! His parents, especially his dad, are really furious when they find out he dropped out. They take away his bank and credit cards and even his nice BMW they gave him in high school. Now he has to pay for everything himself.<br />Liz, who didn't understand why Todd wanted to drop out, is confused about the kiss she and Sam had. Sam, who loves Liz, doesn't want Liz to know that the kiss really meant anything because of a secret he's been keeping from her. The rest of the characters don't really have any big problems in this book, though. Todd, Liz, and Sam are the three main characters in this book. But if you love the SWEET VALLEY UNIVERSITY series and wanna find out what happends to Todd, Liz, Sam, and the rest of the Sweet Valley gang, then check this book out. Great read. You won't be disappointed!	2001-04-07
US	48446399	R3P70RNCDAUKR7	0590962736	528139782	Voyage on the Great Titanic: The Diary of Margaret Ann Brady, R.M.S. Titanic 1912 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best book from the DEAR AMERICA series....	OK, I'll admit that I'm not usually into reading the DEAR AMERICA series but I got this book as a Christmas present two years ago and really enjoyed it! As a huge fan of 'Titanic' stuff, you could be pretty sure I'd enjoy it. I also loved the movie with Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet...no surprise! I read it right away, and almost couldn't put it down. I was too engrossed into reading it. One great thing about these books is that just about basically anyone could read them. They are not too difficult to read and they are not too easy to read, either. However, I'm a good reader, so I'd have no problem trying to read most things anyway. This book is about Margaret Brady, who was a real passanger on the TITANIC. She's 13 years old, and lives in London, England. Her older brother, William, left her at an all girls' orphanage several years ago before this story starts because she was very ill and he couldn't take care of her (their parents had died when Margaret was very young and they didn't have a place to live). Now, Margaret has got some exciting news: Her brother has gotten a job in Boston and wants her to live with him again. Since a wealthy woman, Mrs. Carstairs, is going to America, she asked Margaret to come with her on the TITANIC because her husband couldn't come with her and had to stay in England. Even though Margaret is very poor, she ends up being lucky and is a First-Class passanger on the TITANIC, like Mrs. Carstairs. In this diary, Margaret tells her experiences and feelings on being on the TITANIC - and the special romance she shares with a sixteen-year-old TITANIC crewmember, Robert...who ends up going down with the ship! It's a true story, and Margaret was a real person. Included in this fantastic novel is a short bio of Margaret's years after the TITANIC, a bio of the TITANIC ship itself, photographs of passangers, the ship, and crewmembers of TITANIC, and a TITANIC timeline. It also includes a thin blue ribbon attached to this book to be used as a bookmark. If you're a fan of the DEAR AMERICA series, than this is a must-have for your collection. Even if you're not a fan of the DEAR AMERICA series, and interested in the TITANIC, you should give this book a try. I can gaurentee you won't be disappointed!	2001-04-01
US	48446399	R7KR7AHQY7DTX	038532247X	10130980	The Haunting	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Ghost Thriller.	THE HAUNTING is an awesome book. I usually like Joan Lowery Nixon's work, anyway...so of course I'd think this is a great book. This book is about a modern-day teenager named Lia who doesn't believe she is very brave and courageous like most of the women in her family have been. She, of course, loves to read and doesn't have a lot of friends. After Lia's great-grandmother dies, her parents are given the huge house on a plantation her great-grandmother owned. Lia's parents decide to move there and adopt lots of orphan children, who will become Lia's brothers and sisters. Lia doesn't want to have any brothers and sisters because she likes being the only child, and so she doesn't want to move to the plantation. Anyway, while Lia's great-grandmother was dying in the hospital, Lia came over to visit her great-grandmother. Her great-grandmother thought Lia was Lia's mother, and told her to read a diary by a girl named Charlotte who's grandfather owned the plantation house during the Civil War, in the 1800s and why she thinks the house is haunted. When Lia tells her mother this, her mother doesn't believe the house is haunted and wants to live in it anyway (even Lia's grandmother believes the house is haunted). So to prove the house is haunted, Lia finds Charlotte's diary and reads it and now has to discover a way to destroy the evil in the house before it destroys her! A great thriller for a late-night reading. Go out and try this book.	2001-03-04
US	48446399	RX7ZEKUUEMRNZ	0385328001	437657482	Backstreet Boys: The Official Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	All I can say is.....&quot;Wow!&quot;	BACKSTREET BOYS: THE OFFICAL BOOK is definitely NOT what I had thought it would be. When I received this book as a birthday present, I thought it was just gonna be a book with some photos and mostly words, you know, stuff about the Boys that most fans already know. But I was totally wrong! This book was all about photos and the Boys describing them in their own words. It was more like a scrapbook rather than a biography, which was utterly cool and completely different from most Backstreet Boys books. The photos in this book are bold, bright, colorful, beautiful, and large (Andre Csillag did an excellent job with this photography!), and these photos are pretty rare, too...most of them which can't be found anywhere else (although I'm pretty sure I have seen a few of the photos in other places). Other than that, this is very original and totally awesome. A perfect keepsake to your Backstreet Boys collection, and a 'must-have' for any BSB fan!	2001-01-06
