US	48486228	R2QZBOJ35FCNWG	0965683613	709555409	Race, Evolution, and Behavior: A Life History Perspective (3rd Edition)	Books	5	104	124	N	Y	Political Correctness is a Social Construct...	But certainly not race. You know, J. Philippe Rushton may be the most brave man on the planet for publishing this book on a topic so verboten that it actually got him investigated by the Ontario police. Canada, what a country, everyday I wake up pleased that I don't live there.<br /><br />Rushton informs the reader in his Preface that his goal is to examine whether or not innate differences between the races exist. He is not interested in proscribing policy or advocating positions, yet, for many in our universities, objectivity is a curse word they may not believe can even exist in any capacity. Rushton unwittingly stepped into a punji trap by daring not to grovel before activists disguised as professors. The classic confusion between politics and science can best be summed up in an exchange I had with an instructor last summer. In reference to a discussion on sex differences she said: \\"But what good do you do society by studying things like that?\\" The answer: the goal is to find truth. However, to elucidate the truth not only is the reason we have universities in the first place, but also a great good in itself.<br /><br />What you have before you with Race, Evolution, and Behavior is the attempt on the part of a learned social scientist to integrate theory with reality. Rushton analyzes 60 separate factors and compares them to see if disparities exist among Asians, Caucasians, and blacks. Some discrepancies, such as skin cancer rate, society will accept without a blush, but others, such as intelligence are more flammable than a depot of kerosene. Rushton doesn't glide, he heroically pushes forth with facts and research. In my humble opinion, this beleaguered scientist is a hero.	2005-10-11
US	48486228	R2US4VCD7G1GOR	0976595788	430854175	Professional Poker	Books	5	43	46	N	Y	An Angle on All the Angles.	This book is an excellent example of the market working to meet the needs of the customer as more and more people are considering giving up their day jobs to become professional poker players. It's hard to argue with some of the financial numbers. Word of Prahlad Friedman's deeds as Spirit Rock on ultimatebet.com have dazzled many into wishing they could play full-time. The glamour of constructing your own life is self-evident. You make your own hours, you have no boss, and you work at a game you love. Heck, even the course of study is enjoyable as many of the poker texts are highly entertaining. Many of us salivate at the thought of leading the type of life we see guys like Gus Hanson lead.<br /><br />Our author, Mark Blades, a former valedictorian who opted for a career in the card room, is a voice of sobriety when it comes to the issue of \\"quitting your day job.\\" He is a professional who has excelled at the game and continues to do so. Here, he provides us with sage advice. Not making it is a very real possibility and Blades has run across more than his share of bust outs while making the big bucks. In these pages, he examines every iota of what being a pro is and how you'll know if you're ready (if you'll ever be). He isn't afraid to share with readers that if they're don't meet certain standards and conditions, they shouldn't even bother.<br /><br />Blades has a lot of important things to say. He speaks both to the online and brick & mortar player. Of course, the lighter rake and the fact that one does not have to tip provide the internet with an advantage over actual casinos. However, the games in a casino can be much easier. The 2/4 game at the Tropicana is nowhere near as difficult as the ones you'll find at fulltilt.com. I really appreciated Blades' comment about the micro limits, and how no one should play there with the goal of making money. You go there to get better so you can move up. It'd be nice if the guy who called your raises with 5/9 offsuit got what was coming to him, but, when the fellow snaps your Aces it's sometimes hard to look at poker as one long session. Given what I've read in \\"Professional Poker,\\" I can honestly say that'll I'll be purchasing his future release, \\"The Mental Game.\\" There's no question that this guy has thought deeply about poker's intangibles, and has an enlightened view. Mark Blades puts the entire \\"turning pro\\" question into the proper perspective.got what was coming to him, but, when the fellow snaps your Aces it's sometimes hard to look at poker as one long session. Given what I've read in \\"Professional Poker,\\" I can honestly say that'll I'll be purchasing his future release, \\"The Mental Game.\\" There's no question that this guy has thought deeply about poker's intangibles, and has an enlightened view. Mark Blades puts the entire \\"turning pro\\" question into the proper perspective.	2005-10-07
US	48486228	RSGARERMOP8VC	0595360726	936447983	3000 Years	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A Worthy Challenge.	One really has to hand it to Richard Mgredechian for the creative vision he showcases in 3000 Years. I'm sure a lot of imaginative people will be impressed by the futuristic world he envisions. I bet there won't be anyone wishing to move to Mojave anytime soon. A serious amount of effort had to have been put into the plot as it is extremely intricate, and unpredictable. The reason I couldn't give it a higher rating was that I thought there needed to be more exposition, and I liked John Bennett as I character, but he seemed to lack the human personal weaknesses through which so many of us bond with others.<br /><br />The author's knowledge of the science he describes is obviously pronounced. He clearly is someone who could be the technical consultant should Hollywood ever desire to make a movie out of his novel. As far as possible improvements for later editions go, I think the inclusion of a glossary would be valuable. 3000 Years definitely piques our interest in the physical sciences, but, unfortunately, does little to educate us. Of course, it isn't a textbook, but there are sentences and terms the layman will not be able to comprehend. This is problematic because here, the layman, is most of the novel buying public. On page 124, Mgredechian does a good job in reference to nanotechnology where he provides readers with needed explanation. However, terms like, \\"Einstein's Twin Paradox,\\" require, at the very least, an explanatory footnote. Sometimes the language was a bit too heavy to stand on its own, but 3000 Years was a worthy effort from this talented first time novelist.	2005-10-01
US	48486228	R2RW3DAZUYZ2AY	1843440067	398000780	Total Poker (High Stakes: Poker)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Farewell Great Knight.	Yes, I suppose the title may be a bit confusing here. First of all, let me clarify that this is not a \\"how to\\" book. It is a work celebrating the game of poker which places it skillfully within our cultural milieu. It is more a cultural history than a manual for novices. However, I believe that it should have value for all as there are a great many technical works but precious few David Spaniers. Indeed, unfortunately, Mr. Spanier has passed away. The reader will lament this fact shortly after he begins because the author strikes one as being good solid company. Many poker writers are players first, and writers... barely at all. That certainly is not the case with this narrator. His prose is strong and he paints a beautiful, impressionist picture of poker that you'll long remember. He approaches his subject with great enthusiasm and examines it from many angles. A fine essay about poker and film is included; wherein, he illustrates aptly that The Hustler, although it was not even about cards, is the greatest poker movie ever. A case study of former World Series of Poker champion, Puggy Pearson, reveals the ways of the professional. While cheating, along with a detailed description of \\"Loss\\" Vegas, are among the clever subjects addressed within. One of the best things about reading Total Poker, if you ask me, was getting to know David Spanier. He's an Englishman of the old school who would not readily find a home in \\"Cool Brittania.\\" He was born and lived, for the most part, many miles away (and above) political correctness. Instead of making excuses for the \\"maleness\\" that is the game, he glorifies it. David Spanier, you sir, are missed.	2005-09-22
US	48486228	R1IP4XHNCC3XLS	0935926259	123162678	Weighing the Odds in Hold'em Poker	Books	5	61	63	N	Y	King is King.	I purchased this the other day after it sat on my wish list for many months. If you could ask my bankroll, it'd tell you there were 200 big reasons for why I should have bought it earlier. King Yao provides us with an engineer's eye view of poker as told by a master technician who had the tenacity to forego a successful career as an options trader to become a full-time professional poker player. There's no fluff or rhetoric in this one. It's fact after fact after fact and that's exactly what is most helpful to poker enthusiasts. The reader receives essential insight that is central to the game. Before reading this book, I thought I understood pot odds much better than I actually did. In the past, I was not calculating them effectively as I played. The method he uses for game determination of pot odds, DIPO, is extremely easy to practice while seated at a table or at a virtual one. Making quick, but accurate, determinations as to whether it is profitable to remain playing is essential to victory, and Weighing the Odds provides us with many tools with which to do so. His treatment of starting hands was masterful, and I'm not using hyperbola when I say so. The four pages of specific recommendations as to how to play each hand given early, middle, or late position are sterling. Helpfully, the author makes use of detailed charts and analysis to illustrate those hands highest in EV. Specifically, his discussion of AQ and JJ benefited me as they have proved challenging hands again and again. This one's for everybody, but an advanced player will examine it for a moment and immediately recognize its value.	2005-09-15
US	48486228	RG2IFG3W8Z962	1880685221	825219304	Hold 'em Poker: For Advanced Players	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Retool Your Game.	After reading several of the 2+2 offerings, I finally got around to picking up this one. I have to say that it is an excellent companion to Ed Miller's superb work, Small Stakes Hold'em. What I love about Hold Em for Advanced Players is that it recalibrated my fundamentals which is exactly what the mathematician ordered. It seems that the more I'm online competing, the more likely I am to make plays I should never be making. One can only be beaten so long by knuckleheads making straights with 9/5 offsuit before you start becoming experimental and see raise after raise with suited connectors that may have no value after the flop.<br /><br />Admittedly, the book is not brand new, but they did update it to make it more in keeping with today's aggressive, aggressive, \\"I'm all in like Gus Hanson,\\" game. The focus is ring games, which most of us play them online. I did not heed the author's advice when I got it (to read it straight through first), but skipped ahead to the new chapter on playing in loose games. Based on my experiences, their advice was on point and quite helpful.<br /><br />I perused the reviews below, and, I have to say that I disagree with the recent about there being too many exceptions to the information given. I find the inability to state things categorically, and, for every instance, to be in the nature of the game. Endless and bizarre exceptions basically are Texas Hold'Em. It's semi-formal rules with exceptions everywhere you look. If there were not so many contingencies, the fish would never win, and, as all of us know, the fish win quite a bit. The randomicity of the game causes authors like Malmouth and Sklansky to alter their advice slightly depending on the situation, and to always try to find a way for the player to get an edge and slant the odds in his favor. And what is \\"in his favor\\" depends on the hand, the street, and the bet. A great many people long to impose order upon poker, but you cannot completely do so. With any form of gambling there will always be some chaos inherent; there's no getting around it. Once you accept this fact, you tilt far less. As for the writing style, okay, these are math guys. No, they aren't great writers, but so what? We are looking for their expert analytical guidance. I don't care if the sentences are choppy and devoid of personality. If you ask me, my game could use a little less personality. As a fellow soldier in the trenches, let me say that this would make a valuable purchase.bling there will always be some chaos inherent; there's no getting around it. Once you accept this fact, you tilt far less. As for the writing style, okay, these are math guys. No, they aren't great writers, but so what? We are looking for their expert analytical guidance. I don't care if the sentences are choppy and devoid of personality. If you ask me, my game could use a little less personality. As a fellow soldier in the trenches, let me say that this would make a valuable purchase.	2005-09-09
US	48486228	R21H7T4BBVHQ72	0953096424	381924011	The Manipulated Man	Books	4	155	163	N	Y	Surprisingly Strong.	I first heard about this book while reading Fitzgerald's Sexploitation. It was so old that I did not even bother to put it on my wish list. Then, as the years went by, I talked to more and more men who treasured The Manipulated Man. One fellow even went so far as to pdf the initial edition and distribute it among to his friends. As a result of the accolades, I realized that I had to read the work for myself. All I can say is that I'm surprised it turned out to be as good as it is. Yes, it is too severe in some of its observations, but not as much as Sexploitation was. Villar, even when she overstates, makes far more accurate points  about men and women than our media ever do. There is more truth in this slim volume than in all of the collected episodes of Oprah Winfrey. That women favor a material existence devoted to enhancing their own security and accentuating pleasure seems to be undeniable based on my life experience. It is a reality of which Villar makes us completely aware. Also, men really do evaluate women from an equal perspective which is the cause of considerable unhappiness to us. It is inconceivable, from our vantage point, that there are women out there who actually prefer shopping to sex, but that is no doubt often the case.<br /><br />On just about every second page of this book, the author makes a profound insight. Therefore, I encourage you to take the time to read it. As you do, I'm sure you will wonder, just as did I, about the amount the hell Villar must have caught given the year in which it was originally released. Nothing as potent or virile, in regards to the social transcendence of women, ever before appeared. To Esther Villar, as a man, I say thank you. We are heavily in your debt.	2005-09-01
US	48486228	R27MNBSP2Y0RA1	1401302009	152649726	The Washingtonienne	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Astrogliding Away!	I really think this one should be titled, \\"Confessions of a Shameless Hussy.\\" I bought it last week after reading a favorable review in a journal. Now that I'm finished, I must relay to prospective readers what a surprising joy it was. The author goes by Jacqueline in the novel, but it is undoubtedly her life described in these pages. In the beginning, I never thought I would like it as the author is a shallow, materialistic, alcoholic, whore; however, she openly admits to being all of these things which is exactly why the tale is strangely enjoyable. There is no self-righteousness in her. She denies nothing. These are ugly, masochistic events and we are blessed with a narrator who shouts \\"it's me! it's me!\\" rather than one who mutters \\"the horror.\\" Cutler stands athwart the modern \\"I'm never bad; I'm never responsible\\" characters who are painfully all to familiar to us. I felt empathy for Jacqueline as it was refreshing to encounter a young lady who refuses to congratulate herself for the terrible choices that (she alone) has made. Gratefully, she never pretends her selfish drives are a smaller part of a fictional political struggle effecting all women.<br /><br />As far as the sex is concerned, it's all quite matter-of-fact. This is no Penthouse Letters. Some of it is rather unusual, however. Cutler seems to have been an anal sex specialist who allowed her devotion to drugs to result in threesomes, and also in unique two person ways in which to inhale cocaine.<br /><br />The best reason to admire The Washingtonienne is that it profoundly offends our politically correct sensibilities. Here is the sistahood, and guess what, it doesn't actually exist. These girls are not friends with one another; they are competitors who sabotage their peers whenever they can. There is no gloss or propaganda present. This is a cattyness which hisses rather than roars. It also makes great fun out of the \\"rah, rah, live for work\\" mentality. How many times do we hear how wonderful it is to find the job you always wanted? How fulfilled you'll be! The author and her friends know that work worship is a crock, and, unlike men, they have a way off the vocational treadmill. They don't want \\"careers;\\" they want the Cyndi Lauper video with girls having fun. The sexual allure of women makes this uniquely possible. In actuality, this book has more to say about female psychology than many of the textbooks out there.it is to find the job you always wanted? How fulfilled you'll be! The author and her friends know that work worship is a crock, and, unlike men, they have a way off the vocational treadmill. They don't want \\"careers;\\" they want the Cyndi Lauper video with girls having fun. The sexual allure of women makes this uniquely possible. In actuality, this book has more to say about female psychology than many of the textbooks out there.	2005-08-28
US	48486228	RUML1UHK17CME	081840647X	986924381	Tournament Poker And The Art Of War	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	The Art of Reflection.	When I first heard about this book I could not help from thinking what an excellent idea it was. It could succeed in bringing the maxims and philosophy of Sun Tzu to legions of people who had previously never heard of him. Apostolico summarizes the arguments of Sun Tzu from The Art of War, and then applies the concepts to tournament poker. Many times, however, the author  stretches the similarities existing between poker and war. He does, quite responsibly, point out in the beginning that his work is in no way intended to minimize the seriousness of war by comparing it to a game. Yet, strategy for one can be juxtaposed with another to a certain extent.<br /><br />The only real problem that I had with this book is that it was tough to get through, and it was not a result of the subject matter or the austerity of Sun Tzu's writing. In actuality, Apostolico did not use enough specifics and examples in his text. He's a tournament player, and I think, from a readability standpoint, he would have done better to include more scenarios from his experiences to illustrate each individual tenet. What we have instead is page after page of generalities. Most of the arguments and suggestions are helpful, but they are dry and fail to captivate.	2005-08-27
US	48486228	R31FQWECU79HX2	0818406429	817355539	The Making Of A Poker Player	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Worth Your Time and Money.	If you're a fan of The WPT, you may remember Matt Matros from the championship final table in April of 2004. The hand he went out on to Martin de Knijff was later analyzed unflatteringly by Daniel Negreanu and Phil Hellmuth on \\"Poker Corner.\\" The author gives an accounting of this play and discusses the situation here in the book's postscript. For his efforts in the championship, he won over 700 grand.<br /><br />I would have to say that \\"The Making...\\" is kind of a hybrid. It is a personal story and also one which attempts to explain poker strategy to the reader. The biggest indication that it succeeds at both goals is that I found it very hard to put down. All of the chapters are readable, which may be due to Matros veering from his mathematics background to obtain a Masters of Fine Arts degree in creative writing at Sarah Lawrence. He seems to make few mistakes and does not dwell on jargon in these pages (and he has a glossary in back for novices). The mathematics background comes across, however, in his personality, and he appears far more Yale than common man. Sometimes a narrator can produce feelings of empathy in a reader, but, in this case, he could not.<br /><br />As far as the poker is concerned though, this book is surprisingly insightful. Matros is a scholar of the game and appears to be completely devoted to self-improvement. Here, he documents the tremendous growth he achieved over a few short years. The tale is inspirational to pikers like myself who hope for a small percentage of his lifetime cash-outs. I think his observations about the differences between tournament poker and \\"real\\" poker are excellent. I had not fully comprehended the disparities until opening this one up. His examination of the effectiveness of the maniac playing style was very valuable. How many times do we sit and watch our calls and raises get steamrolled by lunatics? Yes, they go broke, but so often they redistribute our chips to others before doing so. It's frustrating, and Matros reveals how some personal problems led him to accidentally assume the maniac role at a tournament and achieve astonishing results. We see, through his actions, just how stunningly effective maniac play can be. Even though many of us long for a civilized game, aggression is perpetually rewarded in No Limit Hold'em. Lastly, the chapter on game theory was perfect for beginners. The author gets across many important tenets of the mathematical discipline without alienating the non-mathematically inclined. If you're looking for a poker book that manages to teach as much as entertain, this one is a short-list choice.and Matros reveals how some personal problems led him to accidentally assume the maniac role at a tournament and achieve astonishing results. We see, through his actions, just how stunningly effective maniac play can be. Even though many of us long for a civilized game, aggression is perpetually rewarded in No Limit Hold'em. Lastly, the chapter on game theory was perfect for beginners. The author gets across many important tenets of the mathematical discipline without alienating the non-mathematically inclined. If you're looking for a poker book that manages to teach as much as entertain, this one is a short-list choice.	2005-08-25
US	48486228	R2UD06ZB1VYZJI	1592007112	440924769	Winning Secrets of Online Poker	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Useful for Novices.	Perhaps a better title for this book would be, \\"A Thorough Introduction to Online Poker,\\" as it excels in instructing readers about the basics of the game, but does not reveal many unknown secrets. It was published with neophytes in mind. Some of the topics, such as when the authors thoroughly discuss the legalities of online poker, are quite valuable; particularly when they quote from the federal court case illustrating the vagueness of the law in regards to contests. Further, there is a unique emphasis on the technological aspects of poker which is evident from the three chapters devoted to poker spreadsheets and software. The best of these programs are the ones which fit over the poker website like a template and record information automatically. The worst of them are the ones that make you record, with individual keystrokes, the results of your hands. It takes unusual dedication for the average player to do this, but I can see how it would immediately improve one's game.<br /><br />Overall, with its stylish presentation and excellent organization, the manual is excellent for beginners, but I can't say that it offers much for those of us with a great deal of experience. Again, with few \\"secrets\\" shared, the title is rather misleading.	2005-08-21
US	48486228	R3BAXVITAZYM7D	0966963903	379148950	Sex-Ploytation	Books	4	40	53	N	N	Just a Pawn in the Game.	Matthew Fitzgerald's Sex-Ploytation is one of the few works to march up to the great shrine of feminism, lift up its leg, and tinkle urine upon it. I salute his bravery even though I think he overstates his case somewhat. His point of view is too absolute. Some women are above mindless and rampant materialism. They long for more out of life than a treasure trove of \\"stuff.\\" Yet, there is no doubt that four decades of radical feminism has ruined many a woman, and this can principally be seen in the way in which the sexes relate to one another.<br /><br />A central and extremely important theme here is that feminism does not stand for equality. Men are still expected to make chivalric sacrifices even though the women they interact with are as far from maidenly as could be. Men still pay for everything on dates and a man's financial status is integral to his success in attracting a wife or girlfriend. Some of the best sections here are the \\"Man on the Street\\" segments where the author shares some of the things he overhears regular guys saying about women and their role in society. Overall, even if Sex-Ploytation is not perfect, I'm glad that someone is documenting the outrages transpiring against men.	2005-08-17
US	48486228	R1FIGXWGW5YO9J	190446808X	46095472	How Good is Your Pot Limit Hold'em?	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Rock Solid Instruction.	Even before I started writing reviews for Amazon, I was always a customer who made use of the review section. This was particularly true in regards to poker books because I assumed that the raters had the same goal, getting better, that I did. For this book, I read the insights of the two reviewers below, and made the call. My interest in studying Pot-Limit stems from playing the $10.00 table at a popular website. I wondered if there were some tips I could absorb which would give me an advantage over the other No Limit players at the PL table.<br /><br />I have to say that I was taken aback when I first opened \\"How Good Is...\\" because it looked kind of like a workbook with check in boxes and little quizzes for each hand. Then I saw that the free CD actually was the download disk for Royal Vegas poker, which, in my mind, is an awful site. So, with some trepidation, I began to read this one, and must admit to being pleasantly surprised by the advice it contained. American readers should not be put off by the fact that some of the pot values are represented in English pounds because, you'll soon realize, that the exact amounts have little to do with the functionality of the instruction.<br /><br />Stewart Reuben is a retired professional, and he definitely knows what he is talking about. He has a engaging personality and is an enjoyable narrator. Inside, he offers up 58 hands for analysis. Over the course of them, many mentions are made of his old poker pals and famous players like Jack Keller or Devilfish Ulliot. Personally, I did not take the quizzes as I went along but I read a couple of the hands twice after recognizing the way in which I mishandled similar scenarios at the table. Lastly, there's a chart on page 9 that shows hand rankings which was so good I forever marred my copy by tearing it out and placing it alongside my computer monitor as a guide.	2005-08-14
US	48486228	RH1Z8V1PVY956	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	5	22	28	N	Y	Shame, Shams, and Deception.	The first thing that strikes the reader about this work is that it is difficult to qualify. Paul Johnson is a master historian, but, in Intellectuals, he puts together pages that could easily be described as biography, psychology, sociology or political science. His efforts have produced an exquisite narrative questioning, in near revolutionary fashion in light of its being penned in the eighties, whether being called an intellectual is a good thing in the least. In fact, given the examples showcased within, it often should be a term of derision.<br /><br />Overall, I was quite astounded by this book. It is comprised of twelve individual chapters addressing the life and work of twelve famous intellectuals of western civilization. Included are the likes of Karl Marx, Earnest Hemingway, Henrik Ibsen, and Lillian Hellman. Although, the best section is the final chapter, \\"The Flight of Reason,\\" in which he analyzes a great many latter twentieth century intellectuals like Norman Mailer, Kenneth Tynan, and Noam Chomsky. It is a riveting synthesis, and, if I were to reread it, this would be the first chapter I'd turn to.<br /><br />Numerous themes are developed. Perhaps most central is that the intellectual's public stance on moral and political issues often flagrantly contradicts with the values they practice in their own private lives. In all situations, we see this to be to the case in Intellectuals. The prophet's great love of humanity directly clashes with their despicable way of treating friends and associates. Shelley committed boggling acts of larceny and his egotistic outlook on the world vicariously caused some of his friends to be imprisoned for debt. He forgot about them before they were even locked up. Also, it seems that the truth was perpetually elusive to these men and women. Victor Gollancz stated that he was incapable of error, but appeared incapable of recognizing facts. Lillian Hellman's vanity caused her to sue Mary McCarthy for defamation, and the result of the trial was calamity for the playwright. All that came of it was the public's discovery of Hellman's dedication to deception and deceit. Time and time again, we find that these great progressive advancers of women's causes treated the women they consorted with like sexual baubles. A trail of devastation was left in their seminal wake. This was acutely true of Shelley, Rousseau, Tolstoy and Russell. Personal conflicts often, via a deluded narcissistic sense of grandeur, were foisted upon the world disguised as political opinion.<br /><br />Speaking of political opinion, one of the reviewers mentioned that Johnson singled out left-wing personalities alone for disparagement. For the most part, I disagree with this view as artists historically have been predominantly members of the left or at least they have fallen somewhere within the leftist sphere of influence. Although it must be acknowledged that Ayn Rand could have been included here. She would have been a suitable vein for a psychologizing historian to mine. Flynn's recent Intellectual Morons discusses her life at great length, and she would have fit in well within Johnson's narrative. I should further mention that the recent Flynn book was quite good, but it paled in comparison to the profundity of this one.<br /><br />Yes, these lives are repulsive, but I have to say that I believe Johnson treats them fairly. One critic asked, \\"where are his favorite artists?\\" Well, I'd say they can be found right here. As human beings, these celebrities did not excel, but, as artists, some were superlative. The narrator diligently refuses to sell them short. He compliments the artistic merits of Hemingway, Shelley, and Tolstoy. Indeed, Johnson never hedges on the matter of Shelley's unworldly poetic talent. With Hemingway, he notes that his artistic integrity was a constant in his life, and it could be negotiated under no circumstance. Johnson also makes mention that Tolstoy produced two of the greatest novels ever. With Norman Mailer, he labels his first book, The Naked and the Dead, as \\"outstanding.\\"<br /><br />Outside of Roger Kimball, you just cannot find commentary so lucid and challenging in our present day. Intellectuals is a glittering, ornate classic. This book has been around for a long time, and its used copy price is very cheap. Nothing should prevent you from buying, borrowing, or downloading it.els ever. With Norman Mailer, he labels his first book, The Naked and the Dead, as \\"outstanding.\\"  <br /> <br />Outside of Roger Kimball, you just cannot find commentary so lucid and challenging in our present day. Intellectuals is a glittering, ornate classic. This book has been around for a long time, and its used copy price is very cheap. Nothing should prevent you from buying, borrowing, or downloading it.	2005-08-13
US	48486228	REQWRMG1CZSU8	1880685329	906119542	Small Stakes Hold 'em: Winning Big With Expert Play	Books	5	56	58	N	N	A Sound Investment.	There's no question that when it comes to Texas Hold'em, the lowermost limits are extremely bewildering places in which to play. It's a Vietnam full of kids who think that the meaning of poker is to pretend that betting two fours for value means treating them as if they were a straight flush. There's what I call, \\"All in Disease,\\" where every chance a guy gets, he tries to emulate his highly paid heroes on television and go all in. The only problem is that they usually believe that they can win when they do so. These clowns go after 15 dollars worth of blinds with their entire stake. It's demoralizing when you lose to them.<br /><br />For this reason, I bought this book by Miller and company to see if there were a way in which to improve my game. The first helpful thing the narrative does is to put things in perspective. Any maniac or tomfool can win Hold'em in the short-term, as a player, my job is follow the percentages and maintain discipline. Even if I take a beating during one session, eventually, the numbers will rectify the situation in the end. Somewhat surprisingly, Miller's advice is that if you find yourself amid very loose tablemates, it's okay to lessen your hand selection values as they're calling with practically anything.<br /><br />The idea of, \\"don't be tricky,\\" definitely benefited me immediately. With so many callers, slowplaying is not a sound idea unless you possess the nuts. They're liable to come back from huge deficits to pummel you on the river. Don't let them linger. Bet them to death. If they want to see your set, make them pay for it--big time. Again, we learn what we already know, that aggressiveness is rewarded again and again in Hold'em, but it remains just as true in limit as it does in no limit. If you don't raise, you will be raised so its important to lead out after strong flops. The idea that many beginners spend too much time worrying about \\"good laydowns\\" is a great point. Miller thinks that it's more tilt-promoting to laydown a winner than it is to lose at the river; so calculate your odds of calling and how many times it has to be a winner in order for questionable calls to be income producers. Many times, that last call only has to succeed 1 in 10 times for you to make money on aggregate, so a call is mandated.<br /><br />Overall, I was very pleased with this book. If you've ever wondered how you can be losing to the idiots you've been losing to, buy it. It returned me to profitability.own a winner than it is to lose at the river; so calculate your odds of calling and how many times it has to be a winner in order for questionable calls to be income producers. Many times, that last call only has to succeed 1 in 10 times for you to make money on aggregate, so a call is mandated.  <br /> <br />Overall, I was very pleased with this book. If you've ever wondered how you can be losing to the idiots you've been losing to, buy it. It returned me to profitability.	2005-08-10
US	48486228	REZFI9TJR3OM	1880685256	86821671	The Psychology of Poker	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Knowing Yourself and the Game.	It was hard for me to know whether to give this one four stars or five because it is not the best of the poker books out there, yet reading it definitely enhanced my game. All I can say though is that if you're a beginning or intermediate level player, the volume has much to offer.<br /><br />A crucial aspect of psychology is understanding why we do what we do. Dr. Schoonmaker considers it of the greatest importance to determine what our internal motivations are for playing poker in the first place. Is it all about the money? Well, for me it is, but, for others, there may be numerous factors such as the need for socialization, and a need for competition. He introduces concepts like the eight principles of poker, a series of questions to help ascertain whether you have \\"the right stuff\\" for the game, the law of subjective rationality, and the egoistic fallacy. Yet, all of these ideas are presented in layman's term and not in sentences filled with psychoactive mumbo-jumbo.<br /><br />The key section of The Psychology of Poker concerns The Styles Grid, in which we answer some basic questions about ourselves in order to figure out our style at the table. Of course, the most common style is one somewhere in between the four presented. I will  mention them now and give their nicknames within brackets: Loose-Passive (Calling Station), Loose-Aggressive (Maniac), Tight-Aggressive (Stone Killer), and Tight-Passive (Rock). Out of these four, the optimal mode is that of Tight-Aggressive. I believe that Dr. Schoonmaker's perceptions and descriptions are clearly on target in regards to cash ring games, but, should one be tempted to apply his advice to tournaments, you'd be in big trouble. The book was written in 2000 just before the big poker craze began, so the author could not have anticipated just how much the gigantic freeze outs would predominate the way in which we play poker online. If one sits around and waits for great cards then, even if they plan on acting with focused, intense aggression should those cards ever arrive, they'll lose because it is probable that the blinds will eat you alive before you see those big pairs or big slick. You can't play conservatively and expect to make it past the first 90 minutes of a multi-table event (at least online as some of the blinds change at five minute intervals).<br /><br />There was one aspect of The Psychology of Poker that immediately helped my game, which was Dr. Schoonmaker's analysis of playing with Loose Passive Players (LAPs) at the lower limits in what he labels, \\"No Fold `Em Hold `Em.\\" He points out that this game is actually very good for the better players as discipline prevails. However, due to so many players sticking around until the river, the overall hand strength is so high that what can win in a regular game is a big loser if five people go to the river. Until I read his view, I could not figure out why I was losing so often with straights and trips. The moral of the story is that you just have to be patient when you play, and, also, to know thyself.cused, intense aggression should those cards ever arrive, they'll lose because it is probable that the blinds will eat you alive before you see those big pairs or big slick. You can't play conservatively and expect to make it past the first 90 minutes of a multi-table event (at least online as some of the blinds change at five minute intervals).  <br /> <br />There was one aspect of The Psychology of Poker that immediately helped my game, which was Dr. Schoonmaker's analysis of playing with Loose Passive Players (LAPs) at the lower limits in what he labels, \\"No Fold `Em Hold `Em.\\" He points out that this game is actually very good for the better players as discipline prevails. However, due to so many players sticking around until the river, the overall hand strength is so high that what can win in a regular game is a big loser if five people go to the river. Until I read his view, I could not figure out why I was losing so often with straights and trips. The moral of the story is that you just have to be patient when you play, and, also, to know thyself.	2005-08-07
US	48486228	R2JHX0TCJM4QS6	1932958002	703137757	Aces and Kings: Inside Stories and Million-Dollar Strategies from Poker's Greatest Players	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Lords of the Felt.	One of the consequences of the big poker craze is that books are coming out a million on the subject. Aces and Kings is a perfect example of the fad, but it bares none of the hallmarks of quick production. The prose reads very much like what one would expect to find in a mainstream magazine; which is not surprising as several of these chapters appeared first in places like Cigar Aficionado. The book, on the whole, is quality and chocked full of details. It's main focus concerns those who try to make an easy living in the hardest way possible, i.e. the professional players. With ESPN and The Travel Channel, they have ever-increasingly become the focus of the public's attention. Aces and Kings attempts to inform readers about the poker life by analyzing its biggest names and figures. Many of these cardsharps have become celebrities overnight. Their mini-biographies are extremely interesting and are told over the course of 15 chapters. Three of them, \\"Web Kids,\\" \\"The Women of Poker,\\" and \\"The New Superstars\\" concern, groupings of players rather than individuals. In this, I think that they made one major error because Daniel Negreanu deserves a chapter of his own. That guy's personality is big enough to fill a warehouse.<br /><br />Nearly all of the pros have lives that make for good reading, but, in my opinion, the most fascinating entry was the one concerning Chris Ferguson. In case you might not recognize his name, he was The World Series of Poker 2000 champion and is one of the most recognizable players in the game due to his Black Bart cowboy hat and huge Oakley shades. We discover that his appearance, just like every aspect of his persona, was carefully calculated in the hopes of discouraging his opponents from perceiving just how mathematically oriented he actually is. Ferguson has a PhD in mathematics/artificial intelligence from UCLA, and has spent years forging his probability based approach to the game. His huge black binders are brimming with statistics and determine how he will play hands and scenarios. The results, as we know, have been fantastic. What impressed me most about him was that he went on a severe cold streak in 2002, but did not get discouraged as he \\"recognized a statistical deviation\\" when he saw one. I thoroughly enjoyed the book, and, even if you are not a huge poker fan, the plots within are about as interesting as something written by Nicholas Pileggi.d determine how he will play hands and scenarios. The results, as we know, have been fantastic. What impressed me most about him was that he went on a severe cold streak in 2002, but did not get discouraged as he \\"recognized a statistical deviation\\" when he saw one. I thoroughly enjoyed the book, and, even if you are not a huge poker fan, the plots within are about as interesting as something written by Nicholas Pileggi.	2005-08-06
US	48486228	R1XIGY9NNF4756	039331457X	268079991	Strategy in Poker, Business & War	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Very Original View of the Felt.	The first thing that potential readers will probably want to know about this book is that it was actually written in 1950, but re-released in 1996. It definitely is dated as Hold'Em, the game most of us play, was not even a twinkle in a Texan's eye at the time it came out. Strategy is not a \\"how to\\" manual. It is philosophical in nature. In fact, some of the technical things he explains do not jive with our current perception of how poker should be played. He recommends playing conservative in a conservative game and loose in a loose game; although, every expert I've read says the opposite.<br /><br />Other than its fifties feel (he talks about bridge quite a bit), it is an intriguing little book with some excellent ideas. The main subject is strategy, and how people arrive at the decisions they do. McDonald gives an overview of game theory which is perfect for those unfamiliar with it. We learn about \\"minimax\\" and the way in which games are played in general. Then game theory is examined in relation to poker, business, and the military. Concerning poker itself, America's new obsession is analyzed in the first 60 or so pages. The author clearly has some new things to say, and this is surprising considering that Strategy was written over half a century ago.<br /><br />As a narrator, McDonald can be profound. The idea that gambling and capitalism are reflective of man's true nature is intriguing. Undoubtedly, such a belief is correct as it is the promise of fortune that creates societal innovation, enrichment, and millions of people spending dollars (that they don't have) on everything from The Lotto to poker. Another great point Thompson makes is that it is female curiosity undermines their capacity to excel in poker because curiosity about what your opponent holds can be deadly (for an example of female curiosity, think of Annie Duke illegally grabbing Johnny Chan's mucked cards last year in the WSOP). I liked the notion that poker embodies all the traits civilization discourages, and then the counter-notion that when we make use of these deceptive traits at the table it decreases our need to do so during life on the whole.<br /><br />Strategy has much to offer, but I would not pay full price for it. It's no more than 100 pages of text, so you should check out the z shop price first. I got mine for about $2.00.lization discourages, and then the counter-notion that when we make use of these deceptive traits at the table it decreases our need to do so during life on the whole.  <br /> <br />Strategy has much to offer, but I would not pay full price for it. It's no more than 100 pages of text, so you should check out the z shop price first. I got mine for about $2.00.	2005-07-30
US	48486228	R3O4K65KBJG8MH	1880685337	286794685	Harrington on Hold 'em Expert Strategy for No Limit Tournaments, Vol. 1: Strategic Play	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	Lights, Camera, ACTION!	I bought this book the other day and was rather skeptical about how good it would be, but, now that I finished it, I can honestly say that Harrington on Hold `em is the best book on poker that I have ever read. Am I over-exaggerating? No. The secret of this manual is that, while he expresses many of the same thoughts and ideas as other poker players/writers, he is far superior to them in the teaching of technique and strategy.<br /><br />As a teacher, Harrington is a master. Every page is crystal clear and comprehensible which is considerably more than I can say about the works of his publisher, David Sklansky. The lingo was in keeping with our common poker tongue, and I never had difficulty imaging the situations he described; whereas, with Super System I, while I totally recommend it, there were times when I could not apply Doyle's counsel to my own game due to a lack of skill. Such a situation never arose with Harrington on Hold `em. Many of my faulty and defeatist habits at the table were identified, and, more importantly, the manual helped me understand just how much careful attention needs to be paid to the betting patterns of my opponents.<br /><br />The strongest segments in the book are \\"The Problems\\" sections. They are found at the end of each chapter or part. Harrington uses them to \\"show\\" us information after he has already taught the concepts. These scenarios grab us by the wallet and place us atop the championship felt. The funniest, and most unique, thing about his examples is that Harrington observes the hands from a vantage point high above the players. He tells us what should be done and then often has to shake his head when the player analyzed does the complete opposite. Regardless of the quality of the amateurs, Harrington follows along and makes the best of their bad situations while being careful to point out how much trouble would have been avoided had the right play been initiated in the first place.<br /><br />Early on, \\"Action\\" Dan makes clear that he will be using examples from online play (and then does so extensively) which is extremely helpful for the majority of us who do not reside near one of the gambling Meccas. Most of the scenarios come from the commonly-played online single table satellites. Harrington, rather surprisingly, knows all about the pitfalls and characteristics of internet poker, and, time after time, illustrates how a particular play succeeds in a brick and motor card room but not on the web-and vice versa.<br /><br />Dan Harrington was the perfect person to write a book like this. Other than Texas Dolly, he has the most gravitas out of any of the poker luminaries. He won two bracelets in 1995, and finished at the final table two years running (2003 and 2004). Practically nobody else has the combination of experience and contemporary success as he, and his intelligence stands out like a flush in this initial volume.n makes clear that he will be using examples from online play (and then does so extensively) which is extremely helpful for the majority of us who do not reside near one of the gambling Meccas. Most of the scenarios come from the commonly-played online single table satellites. Harrington, rather surprisingly, knows all about the pitfalls and characteristics of internet poker, and, time after time, illustrates how a particular play succeeds in a brick and motor card room but not on the web-and vice versa.  <br /> <br />Dan Harrington was the perfect person to write a book like this. Other than Texas Dolly, he has the most gravitas out of any of the poker luminaries. He won two bracelets in 1995, and finished at the final table two years running (2003 and 2004). Practically nobody else has the combination of experience and contemporary success as he, and his intelligence stands out like a flush in this initial volume.  <br /> <br />	2005-07-19
US	48486228	R17JILJCEMDCID	0451200063	78108516	The Winner's Guide to Casino Poker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Poker is Life.	I grant that this book does not look like much, but inside are concise pages packed with common sense and advice on how to become a better poker player; which is precisely what many readers need.  In keeping with the trends of our day, the type of poker that the majority of this book discusses is Texas Hold 'Em as it the game most often played in casinos.  Silberstang is obviously a serious gambler who asserts at the beginning that we play the game for one reason alone: to make money.  I read another commentator who disparaged him for this implication, but I agree with Silberstang.  Yes, it's fun and it feels good to learn something new and excel at it, but, ultimately, bringing the chips to the spot in front of you is the ultimate high.  I like the voice of this narrator.  He's hardened and tough; exactly what we expect and respect about the game.  There's no \\"grand strategy\\" here.  It's the basics, but it certainly helped me.  I paid less than six bucks for it, which makes The Winner's Guide the best value on Amazon.	2005-07-13
US	48486228	R1A509OPLU9GY	1580420818	440664396	Doyle Brunson's Super System	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	You'll Improve Right Away.	We live in a society where everything has to be the latest model, and where the new is always considered superior to the old.  However, Super System is a prime example of seventies technology outperforming the recent releases of the twenty-first century.  I read the book all the way through simply due to my curiosity about poker.  Personally though, Hold 'Em's the only game that I play, so I have reread the 165 pages concerning it over four times thus far; which is quite a statement considering that I bought it in September of 2004.  Both chapters on Hold 'Em are excellent.  The Limit one was written by Bobby Baldwin, and the No Limit one was written by Lord Doyle himself.<br /><br />I have to say, despite all the flash and flair exuded by today's hip players, if there was only one pro I could meet, it would definitely have to be Doyle Brunson.  I admire his story and also treasure the advice he issues on tactics and strategy.<br /><br />I'm sorry that Doyle had to change his style due to the publication of Super System, but I am very grateful that he wrote the book.  Studying his suggestions have helped me become a more aggressive and stronger player. I was a rock for too long.  I think that you'll continuously be saying to yourself as you peruse it, \\"Yes, yes, that'll work.\\"  It really will.<br /><br />Overall, even if you're not interested in draw, stud, lowball, or high-low split, Doyle's autobiographical essay, and his general poker strategy are must reads.  This volume retailed for 100 bucks twenty-six years ago, and, for less than 20 dollars a copy, it's a steal.	2005-07-10
US	48486228	RA04EGLEV7AM1	0743476581	53444491	One of a Kind: The Rise and Fall of Stuey "The Kid" Ungar, The World's Greatest Poker Player	Books	5	42	44	N	Y	The Fire that Drives Also Destroys.	I recall that Jim Mcmanus, in his book on the World Series of Poker, mentioned that Stu Ungar was someone with a life truly in need of exploring, so I was pleased to find out about the existence of this book.  I ordered it the minute it was released.<br /><br />I could not be more pleased with the purchase.  Its pages flow like frames in a motion picture.  I could not put the biography down.  This is a tribute both to the professional writer employed, Peter Alson, and also to the ornate texture of the life it documents.<br /><br />Stu Ungar was a thoroughly compulsive, brilliant man who was given many gifts that he, with unprecedented impatience, smoked away through the tube of a crack pipe.  There was no \\"could have been a champ\\" with Stuey though.  He won The World Series of Poker three times and was victorious in 381 competitions  overall.  His memory was photographic and his mind a spinning computer, yet it was his ever-present need for instant gratification that finished him.  A lack of concern for money was his greatest No Limit characteristic, but it was also his biggest weakness as he blew millions on sports betting, the ponies, and every other proposition put before him.<br /><br />Ungar was a man of total contradictions.  He loved being a father and cared intensely for his daughter and stepson, yet he disappeared for weeks at a time and could often not be reached when they needed him.  Stuey lived for competition but allowed drugs to cause him to skip the 1998 WSOP and sleep through the last two days of the 1990 one.  He could be charming and entertaining but had few social graces.  This genius had parts which canceled out his whole.<br /><br />The book succeeds at many levels.  We feel tremendous sympathy for the main character, but wonder what more any single person could have done to save him.  The finest of the poker players are emotionally non-responsive at the table and possess \\"alligator blood.\\"  However, with Stuey, they brought misery upon themselves in the hopes of diverting him from his inevitable destruction.  Doyle Brunson let him move in with his family in El Paso, while Mike Sexton, the same cheeseball who provides color for the World Poker Tour, paid Ungar's hotel bills time and again just so his friend would have a place to live.  Chip Reese had written him off, but, finally, as Ungar sat in a jail cell, he pulled out 55 C notes to secure his release.<br /><br />Stuey Ungar had more talent than practically anyone else on this earth, and being rich should have been a sure thing, but his love of life never equaled his lust for action.  He died by his own hand even if the coroner's report said otherwise.on themselves in the hopes of diverting him from his inevitable destruction.  Doyle Brunson let him move in with his family in El Paso, while Mike Sexton, the same cheeseball who provides color for the World Poker Tour, paid Ungar's hotel bills time and again just so his friend would have a place to live.  Chip Reese had written him off, but, finally, as Ungar sat in a jail cell, he pulled out 55 C notes to secure his release.   <br /> <br />Stuey Ungar had more talent than practically anyone else on this earth, and being rich should have been a sure thing, but his love of life never equaled his lust for action.  He died by his own hand even if the coroner's report said otherwise.	2005-07-09
US	48486228	RK161P6WSH834	1594030804	339853095	The End of Time	Books	5	130	142	N	Y	"Recognition of consequences is the beginning of wisdom."	Two elements are always found in any work by David Horowitz: marvelous writing and unshakeable passion.  The End of Time does not disappoint as it is a unique and valuable addition to his oeuvre. As is to be expected, erudition is intrinsic to his efforts.  He cannot compose without educating as, despite its brevity, within can be found brilliant quotations and granules of wisdom from the finest minds in the western world.  Of these, one by Dr. Johnson is perhaps my favorite, \\"When a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates the mind wonderfully.\\"<br /><br />Horowitz first got the idea for this reflective essay addressing life, death, and the totality of existence during air travel.  He correctly points out that thoughts of death cross the mind of most every passenger as we ride and jerk above the clouds.  A combination of 9/11 and being diagnosed with prostate cancer created a need for him to make sense of an indecipherable future.  Impending death, if not due to cancer then to old age, conceptually has put him in the position we physically find him in upon the book's jacket cover.  He wades alone at sea with no land or person to secure him.  The figure we see is a shadowy composite who, like all the rest of us, ultimately stands alone.<br /><br />The End of Time is not tightly structured which allows its narration to flow along many lines of inquiry.  Horowitz discusses a variety of topics and subtopics.  Religion, of course, is one of them.  He is an agnostic who scrutinizes the Pensees of Pascal, but, ultimately, cannot agree with the philosopher's conclusions.  Although it is to our benefit that he so fully elucidates the Frenchman's final observations.<br /><br />His scholar's eye then fixes itself on cancer and the way in which it is treated today.  Horowitz's experience with hospitalization and recovery illustrate just how non-exacting the science of medicine actually is. Different surgeons tell him different things, and before the prostrate operation commences there is cause to believe that his survival may come with the dear price of lost potency and continence.  One is left, as far as health is concerned, with the same impression Somerset Maugham had about life, that the only thing with which to be certain is that there is precious little with which to be certain.<br /><br />It's been said by several commentators that The End of Time is not a political work, but I disagree.  It is not as overtly political as the rest of his publications, and certainly it is, for the most part, a book about human existence.  However, even a reader who was not familiar with the author's opinions and positions, would have no question as to where his political allegiances lie.  His arguments are unquestionably (and fortunately) conservative.  Indeed, one could argue that a devoted attempt to ascertain what the future will bring is by definition a conservative trait; just as is the sentence, \\"Therefore recognition of consequences is the beginning of wisdom.\\"  Such a statement would be affirmed by nearly everyone on the right.<br /><br />Horowitz equates Marxism with Islamofacism due to their both resulting from a distaste for life as it actually is.  They are utopian fantasies which bear no relation to what is actually possible.  Such an equivocation between Marx and our nation's most vile enemies is not something that the majority of leftists would readily accept.  They often, even if they do not believe in communism, regard it as being a \\"lost cause\\" in pursuit of worthy and noble goals like \\"social justice,\\" but millions met their deaths in a desire to contort humanity into a shape where theoretical doctrines could be met.  The gulags created by communists were a logical outcome of ideas initially presented by Marx.<br /><br />What is produced by radical belief is a permanent war of faith upon society and everybody else who might opposes their plans.  There cannot be any middle ground.  In the name of the dream, anyslaughter or destruction can be justified.  This is true regardless of from where the radicalism derives.  As the author points out, the Marxism of his father and the fundamentalism of Mohammed Atta do not differ in their attitude toward non-believers.<br /><br />His short character study of Atta is prescient and, after examining his history, we can better see how he could so easily have committed the evil acts he did. Atta's \\"morbid seriousness\\" is what qualified him to lead, and one cannot help but think of Maximilien Robespierre in such a context.  Morbid seriousness is precisely what is characterologically essential to revolutionaries.  Horowitz's observation that martyrs hate life more than they love death is quite astute.<br /><br />Perhaps my favorite argument concerns the absurdity of utopian thinking as radicals believe that the world can be completely changed while most of us are not able to lose ten pounds.  Such a comparison is admittedly mundane, but it is still an effective way to illustrate a profound truth as human beings are not infinitely malleable and never will be.  Life is not an eternal May Day Parade.  We spend our days severely challenged by the banal which, upon reflection, is not such a bad way to live.fied.  This is true regardless of from where the radicalism derives.  As the author points out, the Marxism of his father and the fundamentalism of Mohammed Atta do not differ in their attitude toward non-believers.      His short character study of Atta is prescient and, after examining his history, we can better see how he could so easily have committed the evil acts he did. Atta's \\"morbid seriousness\\" is what qualified him to lead, and one cannot help but think of Maximilien Robespierre in such a context.  Morbid seriousness is precisely what is characterologically essential to revolutionaries.  Horowitz's observation that martyrs hate life more than they love death is quite astute.    Perhaps my favorite argument concerns the absurdity of utopian thinking as radicals believe that the world can be completely changed while most of us are not able to lose ten pounds.  Such a comparison is admittedly mundane, but it is still an effective way to illustrate a profound truth as human beings are not infinitely malleable and never will be.  Life is not an eternal May Day Parade.  We spend our days severely challenged by the banal which, upon reflection, is not such a bad way to live.	2005-07-05
US	48486228	R3NADAS5UW342Q	0060746408	182691534	Juiced: Wild Times, Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits, and How Baseball Got Big	Books	3	30	36	N	Y	Jose Can Shoot Drugs.	Any sports fan who lived through the late eighties and early nineties remembers the unworldly talent fielded by the Oakland A's.  They seemed to be the favorite every year, but, regardless of reputation, the team managed to let their fans down all but once.  Perhaps no individual symbolized the team's mix of flair and underachievement better than their Right Fielder, Jose Canseco.  He was a showy combination of size, speed, strength, and possessed the looks of a muscle-headed matinee idol, but, as a player, he was often the butt of jokes.  He was nicknamed \\"Jose Can-strikeout,\\" and the image of an outfield fly bouncing off his head before leaving the ball park is not something that most of us will ever forget.<br /><br />They'll be no Hall of Fame for Jose Canseco as his career peaked at age 24 with his winning the American League's MVP Award.  This year, perhaps in the hopes of keeping his name alive, he released Juiced : Wild Times, Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits, and How Baseball Got Big.  The book is combination of autobiography, baseball analysis, advocacy paper for the widespread use of steroids (seriously), and a dedicated attempt by one individual to blame every negative life event on racist America-a racist America that made him unbelievably rich.<br /><br />The reason that most people buy a book like this is to troll through celebrity dirt.  Well, certainly, there is some of that here.  Canseco documents personally administering and injecting steroids to Mark McGwire, Raphael Palmeiro, Juan Gonzalez, and Ivan Rodriguez.  Speculation is offered concerning the possible usage of Brady Anderson, Sammy Sosa, and Bret Boone.  Perhaps the only section of the book which will be of interest to the Entertainment Tonight types is his description of his relations with Madonna.  This is the only humorous tale told, and our laughter is mostly directed at him.<br /><br />What is most annoying about this book is that Jose regards himself to be Joe Latino.  He sees himself as just another victim regardless of his opulence.  Time after time he states that he never thought he'd make it because America was too racist to accept Cubans as big league players but then he belies his position by noting that Tony Perez and Luis Tiant played in the show well into their forties.  More likely, his apprehensions about being a pro can be attributed to his tremendous insecurities and feelings of inferiority.  His father publicly humiliated from little league on by yelling at him in public whenever he made a mistake.<br /><br />Our steroid enthusiast regards guys like Cal Ripken and Mark McGwire as being bullet proof because they are white.  Due to his Cuban background, everyone supposedly wanted him to fail in the bigs...except of course for the police who, after pulling him over going 202 mph in his Lamborghini Diablo, said, \\"Don't worry, Mr. Canseco, we're not going to arrest you.  We just wanted to see the inside of your car.\\"  Despite my light skin, if I were going 90 in my Kia, and resisted arrest, I sincerely doubt the troopers would be quite that understanding.  It's rants and whines like these that make one suddenly long to put down the book.  How can you relate to a guy resentful about our nation after he tells us in the same chapter that he now lives simply by only owning a Bentley, a Porsche, and a Lamborghini?<br /><br />The real constant in this book is Canseco's narcissism and inability to be grateful for the blessed lifestyle he has been given.  In the end, all the cars and the women are not enough for Jose.  It seems that the fans let him down.  He had only one simple demand and we did not meet it. The public failed to describe him with the words, \\"Jose Canseco, the All-American boy.  Jose, the national icon.\\"<br /><br />Really, now, don't laugh.  I mean he has a valid point.  Just last week I had to complain to the manager at the local grocery store that a couple of his clerks failed to greet me on the way in with, \\"Hello, Mr. NationalIcon.\\"  Such behavior cannot be tolerated.  The next thing you know those produce guys are going to want the right to vote.  Just imagine what Canseco's reaction would be when if he found out that the local growth hormone dealer had been incarcerated. Then he'll really unleash the conspiracy theories.<br /><br />Being Jose Canseco would make for some very easy running over the bases of life, but, after 285 pages with this guy, you'll be grateful to be yourself.ello, Mr. National Icon.\\"  Such behavior cannot be tolerated.  The next thing you know those produce guys are going to want the right to vote.  Just imagine what Canseco's reaction would be when if he found out that the local growth hormone dealer had been incarcerated. Then he'll really unleash the conspiracy theories.   <br /> <br />Being Jose Canseco would make for some very easy running over the bases of life, but, after 285 pages with this guy, you'll be grateful to be yourself.     <br />	2005-07-04
US	48486228	R1CSIKBXIAUOQB	1893554473	859645243	The Politics of Deviance	Books	5	49	58	N	Y	Farewell to Deviance.	I have to say first that this is one of the most underrated books of all time.  I mentioned it the other day in a review because it covers societal decline better than just about every other book I've read on the topic.  Anne Hendershott is a brave writer who took considerable risk in addressing the topic of deviance, as it is one that her fellow academics in sociology, wish to pretend no longer exists.<br /><br />Yet, exist it does, only now our society has defined the traditional representations of deviance, such as drug addiction, homosexuality, and pedophilia, down to the point where they as normal as low cut jeans on young girls.  Society has also replaced the abnormalities of the past with the concocted crimes of sexism, homophobia, and, most humorously, racism-through-questioning-racism, which is what happens when one argues over the necessity of affirmative action programs.  We also now have the nauseating circumstance wherein deviance has been defined up, meaning that those who chose to remain virgins and \\"un-experimental\\" are the ones judged pathological.<br /><br />In the chapter, \\"Rape, Real, and Imagined,\\" we find that rape has become a crime which, by definition, is systematically biased against men.  Their accusers have the right to anonymity, whereas, those on trial are entitled to no such courtesies.  A semantic twist suddenly rephrases pedophilia as \\"intergenerational relationships.\\"  As an aside, one of these days I would like to find out why the FBI does not arrest NAMBLA en masse under the RICO statutes.  Why not?  They're all members of a proven criminal organization.  Speaking of NAMBLA, mental illness has now been extended to cover the lazy, the irritable, and the over-energetic.  In ADHD, PTSD, and PMS, we have a hangman's game full of letters that describe somewhat fuzzy categories of dysfunction.  This is explored, more in depth, in Satel and Sommers new book on therapism.<br /><br />The Politics of Deviance is not merely a sociology book, it is an exploration of how of society has declined to the point where merely attempting to follow the rules is a Herculean task as the rules and mores shift downwards every other month.  It is not a long book but the prose is concise.  Hendershott really delivers a narrator devoid of distracters and hyperbola.  It is a worthy read.ciology book, it is an exploration of how of society has declined to the point where merely attempting to follow the rules is a Herculean task as the rules and mores shift downwards every other month.  It is not a long book but the prose is concise.  Hendershott really delivers a narrator devoid of distracters and hyperbola.  It is a worthy read.	2005-06-27
US	48486228	R35JU305N6GBRI	0066212340	743679167	How Soccer Explains the World: An Unlikely Theory of Globalization	Books	4	44	58	N	Y	A Page Turner.	Let me just say that, like the author Franklin Foer, I am a huge fan of international soccer and really love watching the World Cup every four years.  It's a far more entertaining month, in my mind, than The Olympics.  That's why I gave this book a chance.  As far as soccer goes, the book is fantastic.  The politics subplot left much to be desired, however, but that wasn't why I bought it in the first place.<br /><br />Each of the chapters tells a different story about soccer within a different area of the world.  Europe is, of course, represented heavily.  An inside look at teams like Red Star Belgrade would make anybody twice as happy to be a United States citizen.  Our sports have Holly Hobby characters by comparison.  The rivalry between the two Glasgow teams, the Protestant Rangers and the Catholic Celtic, is unlike anything that we have in this nation.  It makes the Red Sox/Yankees rivalry look like a Soap Box Derby.  The intensity of these matches and its meaning for the fans is something that Foer excels at describing.  One can practically see the Tottenham supporters and their emblems of their philosemitism in the stands, and that chapter, in particular, is brilliantly written.  It is ironic that a sport, referred to in one editorial as \\"a slum sport played by slum people\\" can produce so much grandeur and memory.<br /><br />The story of Brazilian team soccer, and its rule by top hats, is rather depressing.  It appears that the entire league is hopelessly corrupt, which may be a reason that so many of their superstars play elsewhere.<br /><br />The only problem that I had with Foer as a narrator is that he seems completely infected with political correctness.  He goes in search of finding a team to support and chooses Barcelona, but is dedicated to avoiding teams with a past history of racism or fascism or whatever -ism happens to be trendy at the moment.  The problem with this is that what transpires on the pitch has little to do with the thoughts that race through each supporters' head.  You cannot vouch for the sanity of your fellow fans, and you cannot blame team ownership for what former owners did before their individual births.  Soccer is a noble game; let's not reduce it to the level of politics or worry about a past that those of us in the present had zero control over.hat race through each supporters' head.  You cannot vouch for the sanity of your fellow fans, and you cannot blame team ownership for what former owners did before their individual births.  Soccer is a noble game; let's not reduce it to the level of politics or worry about a past that those of us in the present had zero control over.	2005-06-23
US	48486228	R1NAZBN8S0XAST	1400053684	336770599	Countdown to Crisis: The Coming Nuclear Showdown with Iran	Books	5	21	33	N	N	Excellently Told and Terrifying.	If there's anything scarier than the Iranian government in this world, I'm not sure what it is.  Oh, I am fully aware of the menace from North Korea and the possibilities of China becoming more aggressive, but the purposeful way in which the regime (Velayat-e faghih=absolute clerical rule) in Iran has decided to oppose the American people and sponsor terrorism in the world is frankly terrifying.  Their motto remains \\"Death to America\\" and turn the Persian Gulf into a \\"sea of blood.\\"<br /><br />There is no question here that the Iranians were involved in 9/11.  One source mentioned that an Iranian television station stated that Al Qaeda acted in conjunction with Iran in the attacks.  The depiction of the CIA's incompetence in Countdown to Crisis is quite depressing.  Nowhere was this more true than when our Marines were slaughtered in Beirut in 1983.  They never seem to know the bona fide sources from the fake ones.  The same was true of President Clinton whose impotent responses to Iranian maneuvers made our nation appear like weaklings.  Clinton even had a secret policy to allow the Iranians to supply with arms the Bosnian Muslims.  The horror.<br /><br />A major villain in the book is Mugniyeh, who before 9/11, had killed more Americans than any other terrorist.  He is Iran's chief terror master and we see that he worked arm in arm with Al Qaeda.  The son of the Shah is seen to be rather inept and an imbiber of millions of US dollars.  I won't mention the \\"Nixon Plan\\" but it is worth reading about.<br /><br />Richard Clarke also makes an appearance as he looked like a fool by stating that Iran will not be a proliferation threat.  The axis of evil after the Gulf War was Iran, Pakistan, and North Korea.  The Germans, Chinese, and even an American firm, were quite instrumental in Iran becoming a nuclear power.  That Hans Blix is ineffective, and not worth much, we already knew, but it is further demonstrated in Iran's case in Countdown to Crisis.<br /><br />On July 21, 1998, Iran showcased for the world its Shahab-3 medium range missile which could annihilate Israel.  The capacity to hit America was not far behind.  The North Koreans, demonstrated their own missile technology a month later--with the Iranians present as observers.<br /><br />Optimism regarding Khatami turned out to be quite mistaken.  He is described as an indecisive man who is a puppet of Mullah Khamenei and the other hard liners.  Again and again, he has an opportunity to stand up for his people and he repeatedly declines.  We meet evil Dr. Kahn who is a major architect of the nuclear program.<br /><br />According to Timmerman, the way to combat Iran is not to combat them--at least overly.  It's to delegitimize the mullahs by supporting the youth in a country in which 60% of the population is under age 25.  One has to pity the Iranian people for being subjected to such a self-destructive and suicidal leadership.<br /><br />Countdown to Crisis surprised me because it's really not journalism, it's a first rate work of history.  It reads like a spy thriller, and, in this way, reminds me in style of my favorite historian, Anthony Beevor.  This is greatly superior to Congressman Weldon's similarly titled book as it provides a ton more analysis and narrative.br />On July 21, 1998, Iran showcased for the world its Shahab-3 medium range missile which could annihilate Israel.  The capacity to hit America was not far behind.  The North Koreans, demonstrated their own missile technology a month later--with the Iranians present as observers.   <br /> <br />Optimism regarding Khatami turned out to be quite mistaken.  He is described as an indecisive man who is a puppet of Mullah Khamenei and the other hard liners.  Again and again, he has an opportunity to stand up for his people and he repeatedly declines.  We meet evil Dr. Kahn who is a major architect of the nuclear program.   <br /> <br />According to Timmerman, the way to combat Iran is not to combat them--at least overly.  It's to delegitimize the mullahs by supporting the youth in a country in which 60% of the population is under age 25.  One has to pity the Iranian people for being subjected to such a self-destructive and suicidal leadership.   <br /> <br />Countdown to Crisis surprised me because it's really not journalism, it's a first rate work of history.  It reads like a spy thriller, and, in this way, reminds me in style of my favorite historian, Anthony Beevor.  This is greatly superior to Congressman Weldon's similarly titled book as it provides a ton more analysis and narrative.	2005-06-23
US	48486228	R725EOV1LN5LO	159403091X	908224304	Taking Sex Differences Seriously	Books	5	26	32	N	Y	Brilliant.	Luckily, on the occasions when we find ourselves under fire for our own personal choices or the choices of our ancestors, which is what political correctness demands from anyone born male, blasphemers like myself can find sanctuary in Steven E. Rhoads's delightful new book, Taking Sex Differences Seriously. Upon finishing Rhoads's work, many readers will discover that they have renewed respect for the nature of women, and, perhaps, unexpected esteem for the nature of men.<br /><br />I should warn that Taking Sex Differences Seriously is not a chatty, self-help book. It is a highly erudite work in which the author examines study after study and author after author, yet, at the same time, it is very accessible (just as was the case with Why Men Don't Iron). It was written with the average person in mind even though it voluminously surveys contemporary scholarship. There is less focus here on statistics and experimental procedure than there is in works like The New Science of Intimate Relationships, The Mating Mind, or The Red Queen.<br /><br />The study of sex difference can be quite precarious for the academic, and it is with some relief that I noted that Rhoads already has put in thirty years of service at the University of Virginia. For those without tenure, such a book could spell unemployment. The author cites the opinions of heavyweights like Gloria Steinem and Gloria Allred on the topic of sex research. They believe that making inquiries into the discrepancies between men and women is downright dangerous to all women and anti-American in spirit [!]. Yet, one could make a strong case that unearthing what others purposefully ignore is intrinsic to what it means to be an American.<br /><br />The real question that most people have is not that differences are present but for what purpose do these variations exist? Central to Rhoads's work, and central to evolutionary psychology in general, is the fact that the biological drives of humans were formed long ago in a time known as the \\"environment of evolutionary adaptation.\\" This period embodied \\"99 percent of hominid existence.\\" Back then there were no hotels, no indoor plumbing, no antibiotics, no birth control pills or abortions, and certainly no cushy jobs which involved clacking away at keyboards. Survival was precarious and most of our current preferences evolved from our ancestors adapting to life in a brutal and unsavory setting.<br /><br />Only in today's world have we reached the levels of luxury and comfort where we can mistakenly assert that men and women want identical outcomes from love, sex, and life. This false assumption is a cause for considerable unhappiness in our interpersonal relations.<br /><br />Where Rhoads succeeds is through his presentation of all views and his relentless attempts to explain human behavior. He ignores nothing and shares with the reader many a citation which does not support his case. One would be wise to remember that the goal of evolutionary psychology is to illuminate the basis for human behavior and not to excuse or condone such behaviors. To describe is not to advocate. We embrace fantasy over fact if we deny that gender exerts an influence on the way we act, but, unfortunately, that is exactly what many universities around the country have done through their creation of women's studies programs and their never-ending fetish for describing the world as they want it to be rather than how it actually is.o in a time known as the \\"environment of evolutionary adaptation.\\" This period embodied \\"99 percent of hominid existence.\\" Back then there were no hotels, no indoor plumbing, no antibiotics, no birth control pills or abortions, and certainly no cushy jobs which involved clacking away at keyboards. Survival was precarious and most of our current preferences evolved from our ancestors adapting to life in a brutal and unsavory setting.  <br /> <br />Only in today's world have we reached the levels of luxury and comfort where we can mistakenly assert that men and women want identical outcomes from love, sex, and life. This false assumption is a cause for considerable unhappiness in our interpersonal relations.  <br /> <br />Where Rhoads succeeds is through his presentation of all views and his relentless attempts to explain human behavior. He ignores nothing and shares with the reader many a citation which does not support his case. One would be wise to remember that the goal of evolutionary psychology is to illuminate the basis for human behavior and not to excuse or condone such behaviors. To describe is not to advocate. We embrace fantasy over fact if we deny that gender exerts an influence on the way we act, but, unfortunately, that is exactly what many universities around the country have done through their creation of women's studies programs and their never-ending fetish for describing the world as they want it to be rather than how it actually is. <br />	2005-06-22
US	48486228	R3RS7HH0E2849Q	1930859619	478879292	The War Against Men	Books	4	67	75	N	N	A Much Needed Book.	The battle between the sexes has ceased being a battle and has quickly turned into a rout.  With women the recipients of state sponsored advantages such as affirmative action, preferential treatment in the courts, and a public educational system uniquely sensitive to the needs of girls, men are like frogs in an aquarium where water is added incrementally at ever-increasing temperatures.  The frogs only realize the danger just as they begin to boil to death. This is exact warning that Dr. Richard Hise gives us in his 2004 book, The War Against Men.<br /><br />Its full title includes the secondary, Why Women are Winning and What Men Must Do If America is to Survive, and this is the approach the author takes within.  He first outlines the problems of today and then gives suggestions as to what we should do about them.  Dr. Hise is a professor of marketing at Texas A&M's Mays Business School.  This would not be a natural subject for a business professor to address, yet he wrote the book for highly passionate reasons.<br /><br />This is very much a work of scholarship.  Dr. Hise has read just about everything he could get his hands on regarding radical feminism and the decline of men.  The farther he got into his research, the more surprised and dismayed he became.  He was shocked as to the extent in which contemporary society is biased against men.  The clear message here is that war is being waged against us, and if we continue to stand down we will become serfs within our own country.<br /><br />He leaves no stone, or troglodyte in the case of radical feminists, untipped in the pursuit of the truth.  Most of The War on Men highlights the exact nature of our dhimitude in the United States.  From the start he stresses that men and women are not the same, yet the desire of our social engineers is to feminize men and masculinize women.  They have been most successful thus far.  Dr. Hise surveys the available evidence and paints us a Guernica:  women are now more sexually aggressive than ever before, in many cases they consciously attempt to look like men, they choose traditionally male professions, and copy male hobbies and interests.  The androgenizing of women reduces male sexual desire as we inherently are attracted to the feminine.  What is the overall effect of this process?  The camaraderie and complementariness of the sexes is eliminated which is a major factor in our society's decline.<br /><br />Most frightening of all is what's happening in the courts where men are forced to pay for children they did not father, and thrown in jail should they not be able to come up with the amount of monthly funds arbitrarily determined by a judge.  The case of Dr. Griffin is recounted where he was falsely accused of sodomizing a female patient after he refused to testify on her behalf in a suit she filed against her landlord.  The judge barred the doctor from mentioning her past request of him, and also from mentioning her history of instigating frivolous lawsuits.  He got 3-and-a-half-years before being acquitted on appeal.re sexually aggressive than ever before, in many cases they consciously attempt to look like men, they choose traditionally male professions, and copy male hobbies and interests.  The androgenizing of women reduces male sexual desire as we inherently are attracted to the feminine.  What is the overall effect of this process?  The camaraderie and complementariness of the sexes is eliminated which is a major factor in our society's decline.    <br /> <br />Most frightening of all is what's happening in the courts where men are forced to pay for children they did not father, and thrown in jail should they not be able to come up with the amount of monthly funds arbitrarily determined by a judge.  The case of Dr. Griffin is recounted where he was falsely accused of sodomizing a female patient after he refused to testify on her behalf in a suit she filed against her landlord.  The judge barred the doctor from mentioning her past request of him, and also from mentioning her history of instigating frivolous lawsuits.  He got 3-and-a-half-years before being acquitted on appeal.	2005-06-22
US	48486228	R181ES7RPWPMMD	0895260166	363643550	Porn Generation: How Social Liberalism Is Corrupting Our Future	Books	1	210	324	N	N	Loving Censorship.	My enthusiasm concerning this actual book quickly eroded as the solutions endorsed by the author are even more disturbing than children watching Queer as Folk or worshipping the fogeys on Sex in the City. Alas, here, we find that censorship is not dead.<br /><br />On the surface, much of what Shapiro argues is unobjectionable. Our universities have largely abandoned the search for truth and many former radicals seek to brainwash their students. Same sex dorms and bathrooms do demystify relations between the sexes and deter romantic love. Many pop stars are tarts and actively promote alternative lifestyles. When he says that Paris Hilton is \\"a fabulously rich slut,\\" who would dispute it? Rap music is not indicative of black experience in America. Yes, television definitely is a cesspool, and Hollywood does champion homosexuality in many a film. Pornography does have a glamour today it does not deserve, yet Shapiro's way of ending the pornucopia comes straight from the annals of totalitarianism.<br /><br />There is no room for libertarians in the author's vision of the future. He sees censorship, both via the government and through the private sector, as being the solution. The traditional position, among those of us who mind our own damn business, is that whatever a person does which does not harm others should be permitted by the state. Shapiro refuses to tolerate such diversity. He sees all actions as being social and not individual. If what I do vicariously affects someone, such as supporting pornographers by purchasing their products, then I cannot claim that my actions do not negatively impact the community.<br /><br />What he is advocating essentially means there is no such thing as individual rights as everything could be construed as falling within the state's interest. [...]people like he and I would be the first to be censored by a Democratic administration. We would become the Oriana Fallaci's of the USA. A door would be opened from which totalitarianism would escape. His words frighten as if they came from Stephen King [...]<br /><br />Porn Generation even takes a stand against Levitra or Viagra to be advertised on television. However, regardless of whether its right or left who censors, the blue pencil is never the answer. If I could shut down The Nation and Mother Jones...I never would.<br />Censorship is evil.<br /><br />Another major flaw in the work is that Porn Generation constantly condemns this or that as being amoral or immoral without defining these terms for the reader. What exactly does such language mean? What is the moral system we are to operate within? We do not implicitly know what is or is not \\"immoral.\\" Is immorality to be strictly equated with religious sin or does it extend far beyond it?<br /><br />Of course, I have only provided the reader with my major objections, but I could spend another ten pages mentioning the minor ones. Many of the asides grate. The writing of James Joyce is called \\"drivel\\", yet James Joyce had more creative talent in one eye patch than most writers alive today.<br /><br />The problem with Porn Generation is not its subject. The topic is important and needs to be meaningfully discussed, yet, any chance of correcting the way in which social liberalism has endangered our future is not possible given the surface level of analysis provided here. If the reader wants to know more about the way in which the concept of deviancy has disappeared from our cultural parlance, I recommend purchasing Anne Henderschott's concise masterpiece, The Politics of Deviance, instead of this ignorant and offensive book.frighten as if they came from Stephen King [...]    Porn Generation even takes a stand against Levitra or Viagra to be advertised on television. However, regardless of whether its right or left who censors, the blue pencil is never the answer. If I could shut down The Nation and Mother Jones...I never would.  Censorship is evil.    Another major flaw in the work is that Porn Generation constantly condemns this or that as being amoral or immoral without defining these terms for the reader. What exactly does such language mean? What is the moral system we are to operate within? We do not implicitly know what is or is not \\"immoral.\\" Is immorality to be strictly equated with religious sin or does it extend far beyond it?     Of course, I have only provided the reader with my major objections, but I could spend another ten pages mentioning the minor ones. Many of the asides grate. The writing of James Joyce is called \\"drivel\\", yet James Joyce had more creative talent in one eye patch than most writers alive today.     The problem with Porn Generation is not its subject. The topic is important and needs to be meaningfully discussed, yet, any chance of correcting the way in which social liberalism has endangered our future is not possible given the surface level of analysis provided here. If the reader wants to know more about the way in which the concept of deviancy has disappeared from our cultural parlance, I recommend purchasing Anne Henderschott's concise masterpiece, The Politics of Deviance, instead of this ignorant and offensive book.	2005-06-21
US	48486228	RH1SG4UGJR8GL	0393318796	282163709	Hemingway: The Paris Years	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Recreates both Hemingway and Paris.	I've been trying to read two other books, on top of The Paris Years, but put them both down yesterday so that I could finish this one.  The biggest thing that stands out about it is the excellence of Michael Reynolds' prose.  He has the rare skills which enable readers to successfully jettison themselves back in time.<br /><br />This is the perfect companion to A Moveable Feast and elucidates the historical nature of the characters present in The Sun Also Rises as well.  Reynolds, although sometimes pretending to do otherwise, is a psychologizing narrator.  The good news is that most of his observations have the ring of truth. The biographer seems to understand his subject which is of great benefit to the rest of us.  Hemingway's first marriage is discussed extensively and the coming of Pauline Pfeiffer is also elucidated at the very end.  Hemingway had Ford and Pound as his philandering role models, and, eventually, he proves to be a most capable student.<br /><br />What I liked best about the book was the way in which Reynolds lets us know what Hemingway's writing process was; the daily habits he undertook which allowed him to excel at his craft.  He struggled mightily to master the short story and, throughout this work, his emergence as a novelist is far from certain. The scenes in Pamplona are vivid as is the depiction of the cafe life in Paris.  You may well want to go back and tour it as badly as I do by the time you're done.  Ah, the past.  Anyway, it is unfortunate that more on F. Scott Fitzgerald was not included, but you'll understand Ford Maddox Ford almost as well as Hemingway once the last page is turned.  Overall, it was simply outstanding, I may well read the other editions of the biography now based on what I discovered here.	2005-06-20
US	48486228	R3376VW3IH8D23	0679732268	161451712	Light in August	Books	5	105	112	N	N	Readable and Riveting.	I always recommend Light in August to people who say that Faulkner is impenetrable. Here the pages flow effortlessly by and the story line is easy to follow.  There's none of the interior monologues that so confuse and derail those picking up the southern master for the first time.  This plot is more traditional and will be readily appreciated by the average person.	2005-06-19
US	48486228	R2BY6G4U1SATWQ	0895260050	161277048	Countdown to Terror: The Top-Secret Information that Could Prevent the Next Terrorist Attack on America--and How the CIA Has Ignored It	Books	4	47	56	N	N	Quite Possibly the Truth.	In \\"Countdown to Terror\\" we have a first person account of our failings in The War on Terror which are specifically described in light of the 12th Iman plot.  It comes straight from the mouth of Curt Weldon, Congressman, and vice chairman of the House Armed Service Committee.  He immediately states that a \\"politically correct\\" attitude towards intelligence has eroded our national security.  I should state ahead of time that it is a partisan account (which doesn't bother me) as the Republican representative blames the Clinton Administration for much of what is wrong with our intelligence apparatus today.  Also, Weldon provides documents revealing that the Iranian government actively desired a Democrat in the White House in 2004, and that they had businessmen channeling funds for this purpose.<br /><br />Weldon is introduced to an Iranian revolutionary, counter-revolutionary as the case may be, to whom he gives the name \\"Ali.\\"  He goes to Paris to meet with him, and then forwards the information to the CIA who allegedly send a member of the French Interior Ministry to threaten Ali and demand that he keep quiet.  Ali has well-developed sources in Iran who have told him all kinds of things which would shock the American public--and everybody else.  Most important are:<br /><br />1. At the present time, Osama bin Laden is being hidden and sheltered in Iran by the Iranian government.<br /><br />2. Iran is sponsoring and planning an assassination attempt on the first President Bush.<br /><br />3. The Iranian government's attempt to build a nuclear bomb is far more advanced than we know.<br /><br />4. Iran is actively trying to purchase a nuclear weapon from North Korea.<br /><br />5. Ayatollah Khameni put out a contract (so to speak) on Yassir Arafat due to his wish to derail \\"an American peace.\\"<br /><br />The overall theme of the book is \\"speak truth to bureaucracy.\\"  Weldon knows that it goes against tradition and his better judgment, but he wishes to take his case to the American people so that they can be fully informed of the information that he has, which the CIA does not regard as being accurate.<br /><br />The impression that one has, after reading this account, of Ayatollah Khameni and his Committee of Nine is that they are completely mad.  They anticipate an American invasion of Iran and are actively taking steps to prevent it.  The leadership fully believes that they are not like Iraq and will win a showdown with the United States.  They regard the first President Bush as being the real brains behind the W presidency and that is why they wish to eliminate him.  Most intriguing to me, is that the Iranian government has created a Legion of Foreigners known as the \\"Fer de lance\\" which boasts 22,000 members from various countries.<br /><br />The book is mostly comprised of letters and memoranda that the Congressman has received from Ali.  For this reason, while the work is very interesting, I cannot recommend to you that you purchase its 200 pages for the price they're asking.  Picking it up used, or at least in paperback, is best practice unless you are independently wealthy.  Yet, for those who follow the behaviors of Islamofacist Iran, the story is infinitely believable.n people so that they can be fully informed of the information that he has, which the CIA does not regard as being accurate.    <br /> <br />The impression that one has, after reading this account, of Ayatollah Khameni and his Committee of Nine is that they are completely mad.  They anticipate an American invasion of Iran and are actively taking steps to prevent it.  The leadership fully believes that they are not like Iraq and will win a showdown with the United States.  They regard the first President Bush as being the real brains behind the W presidency and that is why they wish to eliminate him.  Most intriguing to me, is that the Iranian government has created a Legion of Foreigners known as the \\"Fer de lance\\" which boasts 22,000 members from various countries.   <br /> <br />The book is mostly comprised of letters and memoranda that the Congressman has received from Ali.  For this reason, while the work is very interesting, I cannot recommend to you that you purchase its 200 pages for the price they're asking.  Picking it up used, or at least in paperback, is best practice unless you are independently wealthy.  Yet, for those who follow the behaviors of Islamofacist Iran, the story is infinitely believable.	2005-06-18
US	48486228	RCTTALPYRIUS6	1580420842	808466577	Championship Hold'em (The Championship)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Championship Advice.	I first heard about this book when I read Jim MacManus's Positively Fifth Street last summer.  By the time that I finished, the manual was out-of-print, but it has since been reissued.  Its re-release is most likely due to the Hold'em craze, but, I believe, that its excellence made it difficult for its publishers to ignore.<br /><br />Overall, I'd place this one right behind Doyle's Super System, Number 1, in terms of educational and helpful works concerning tournament poker.  I know this to be the case because I just returned from Vegas two days ago and finished reading it during my plane flight over.  Championship... was fresh in my mind during the games that I played on vacation.<br /><br />I signed up twice for the 30 dollar, 30 person daily tournament at the Mandalay Bay.  The first day that I attended, I wound up making it to the final table and finishing seventh--two spots out of the money.  I had enough chips to allow me to coast to third or fourth place but, when Big Slick, a King/Ace of Hearts, fell into my hands, I had the sensation of hearing T.J. Cloutier whisper into my ears, \\"This is exactly what I meant.\\"<br /><br />My mind immediately scanned back to page 299 where he states that what you do with Big Slick, and how you play when the other player holds it, makes or breaks you during tournaments.  Here, Cloutier shares that it is also known as \\"Walking Back to Houston\\" as it has so often broken the players who held it.  I knew that folding it would have been cowardice--particular with three spots vacant at the table.<br /><br />The flop fell three suited and A, 8, K.  I had two Aces and two Kings. The guy across from me went all in with a few more chips than me.  I followed suit.  He didn't bet before the flop and I thought he had two 8s or a small pair going in.  I was wrong.  He had J, 10.  When I turned my cards over, the table gasped.  I had him, until a Queen fell on the River and he made a straight.  It was I who was walking back to Houston.  I dragged my way back to the Tropicana in a haze, but T.J. was right, Big Slick would have made or finished my tournament.<br /><br />That's the way the book is though.  It is a play-by-play analysis of what one should be doing during tournament Hold'em play and I thought it incredibly valuable.  It's much better than the Sklansky books as it's not as tight and I found it to be infinitely more realistic.  It adapts to the changing conditions of play.<br /><br />Another thing I'd like to mention is that Tom McEvoy has to be one of the most underrated of all the pros.  You know, he won the World Series of Poker back in 1983 but he is not given any coverage by ESPN.  He really deserves an expose.  Tom's point of view is quite valuable and I enjoyed the insights he shared, independent of T.J.'s.  I have to state that the book is worth the money that you'll pay.  If you want to save a few bucks, it's available from the Amazon z shops.  All the buyers that I've made purchases from have been reliable.Houston.  I dragged my way back to the Tropicana in a haze, but T.J. was right, Big Slick would have made or finished my tournament. <br /> <br />That's the way the book is though.  It is a play-by-play analysis of what one should be doing during tournament Hold'em play and I thought it incredibly valuable.  It's much better than the Sklansky books as it's not as tight and I found it to be infinitely more realistic.  It adapts to the changing conditions of play.   <br /> <br />Another thing I'd like to mention is that Tom McEvoy has to be one of the most underrated of all the pros.  You know, he won the World Series of Poker back in 1983 but he is not given any coverage by ESPN.  He really deserves an expose.  Tom's point of view is quite valuable and I enjoyed the insights he shared, independent of T.J.'s.  I have to state that the book is worth the money that you'll pay.  If you want to save a few bucks, it's available from the Amazon z shops.  All the buyers that I've made purchases from have been reliable.	2005-06-17
US	48486228	R69H7HPU6XNQH	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	10	14	N	N	The Road to Rather's Retirement.	It must have been rather sweet for Bernard Goldberg to have watched the fall of Dan Rather and CBS News from the comfortable distance of a retiree.  In his case, it was as a retiree who just wrote a blockbuster confessional about that slanted news organization.  In many ways, Bias was Rather's book and, when it hit the shelves in 2002 with the blam of a M-80, I'm sure \\"The Dan\\" had some inkling as to how much the revelations within would harm his reputation.<br /><br />I recall seeing Goldberg, an accidental conservative if there ever was one, lit up on the stadios of Fox News numerous times that summer and the book really is an example of one that is \\"important\\"--just look at its over 800 Amazon reviews.  If I were Bernie, I'd call up the fallen anchor and say, \\"You should have gotten your act together when you had the chance. Bias was notice enough.\\"  Its release was a sentry alarming of what was to follow.<br /><br />If one rereads the text now, the self-righteous arrogance revealed in Rather's attitude towards bloggers, and all who later questioned him, becomes quite predictable.  Dan Rather was a journalist on a mission and his mission was to dupe the general public into buying his unimaginative, disproven, leftist worldview.  We must all thank this author for having the courage he did to expose this little Napoleon for the dysfunctional egomaniac he was.<br /><br />Bias differs greatly from Coloring the News as MacGowan's work is an attempt to objectively describe the cult of political correctness that subsumed journalism. Goldberg reveals many of the same practices and values in these pages but they are not the center of his focus.  His is a personal tale and, by definition, a subjective account.  The retelling of it, according to the narrator, tortured him as he did not want to turn on his old friends and he wanted to make sure that it was liberal bias, as opposed to liberalism, that was castigated in his account.<br /><br />According to the narrator, everyone in the newsrooms concedes the existence of a liberal slant to their coverage and presentation of the events of the day.  Yet, many dismiss its importance because they mistake possessing liberal values with being a good person.  His first shot on the media establishment was fired over an op ed he wrote identifying the notable condescension of Eric Engberg as he reported on Steve Forbes \\"wacky\\" flat tax proposal.  There was nothing wacky about it as such a tax has helped economies in eastern Europe immeasurably but it went against orthodoxy so that it became an object of derision to the journalist.  After the piece came out in print, a friend warned him to enter the witness protection program.  He did one better, Goldberg crafted a work that is the quintessential smoking gun, and we should all be grateful to him.rrator, everyone in the newsrooms concedes the existence of a liberal slant to their coverage and presentation of the events of the day.  Yet, many dismiss its importance because they mistake possessing liberal values with being a good person.  His first shot on the media establishment was fired over an op ed he wrote identifying the notable condescension of Eric Engberg as he reported on Steve Forbes \\"wacky\\" flat tax proposal.  There was nothing wacky about it as such a tax has helped economies in eastern Europe immeasurably but it went against orthodoxy so that it became an object of derision to the journalist.  After the piece came out in print, a friend warned him to enter the witness protection program.  He did one better, Goldberg crafted a work that is the quintessential smoking gun, and we should all be grateful to him.   <br />	2005-06-12
US	48486228	R3D5DN6BK7N1YQ	0312284659	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say In America	Books	5	11	11	N	N	PC Set Ablaze.	Larry Elder did all of us who wish to live in an equal and just society a tremendous favor back in 2000 when he penned, The Ten Things You Can't Say in America.  The work is highly effective as it does much to deface the radioactive edifice that is political correctness.  The author's writing style is efficient and the pages fold by effortlessly.  Elder is obviously, given his career as both a lawyer and radio talk show host, quite used to verbal repartee and his points are evident and clear.  He scores against his opponents with the ease of a Cuban heavyweight, and reminds one of that phrase once used to disrespect President Reagan as he is a \\"great communicator.\\"  Yet, the most important thing about communicating is having something to say, which is definitely the case with Larry Elder.<br /><br />Anybody who discusses racism in public and refuses to relegate their analysis to falling  within the safe confines of white America opens themselves up to charges of racism.  This is ridiculous, however, as racism is something practiced by humans of all shapes, sizes, and colors and to pretend that it is unique to Caucasians is to negate any possibility for cross-cultural understanding.<br /><br />Elder will not be deterred or intimidated from mentioning the racism endemic to many minority groups.  As a black male, his arguments are far more difficult to dismiss than if the same words were uttered by a presumed oppressor like your humble reviewer.  In the first two chapters, he illuminates the denied aspects of racism and showcases many irrational examples of it from within his own community.  Then he illustrates the way in which white condescension towards blacks is the real force keeping people down (although the majority of blacks now are members of the middle class).<br /><br />What I found most valuable was Elder's economic refutation of racism.  It simply is not a viable option for corporations wishing to survive within a capitalist system.  It cannot be practiced and is fiscally self-defeating.  The conclusion here is that \\"racism is bad for business.\\"  It is something mutually exclusive with profit as to only hire workers of a certain persuasion would allow rival firms to destroy you as they would have the flexibility of hiring whomever they wanted for whatever price the employees would accept.  I had not heard such a perspective before opening this book.  Another bit of cleverness can be found in his proposal to do away with affirmative action and replace it with \\"affirmative attitude.\\"  It's tough to see how anyone sensible would argue with the 32 suggestions that he offers.<br /><br />White condescension and obsession with race is shown to be an attempt on the part of some to regain the moral authority lost due to us over the course of the last century.  This authority takes the form of a holier than thou superiority worn by many upper class and Trustafarian Caucasians.  They're never happier than when they self-righteously label those who disagree with them as rednecks or crackers.  Their condescending appeals to give minorities special treatment and unearned advantage is repulsive and tells us far more about their own internalized racial prejudices than it does about the condition of minorities in America.  Every time Caucasian-Americans apologize for things they haven't done, or for the arbitrary hue of their skin, it negatively impacts the nation's race relations.  Americans can't be equal if one group insists it is the spawn of Satan [see Susan Sontag of \\"the white race is a cancer\\" fame] and, thereby, inferior to the rest.  No citizen should be condemned as guilty for crimes they never committed.  Elder confirms what many of us instinctively know when he makes clear that cowering before minorities will not bring about racial harmony.<br /><br />Overall, these ten chapters are spirited, irreverent, and necessary.  Elder is particularly passionate about gun ownership and also about the way in which the two party system fails to represent all Americans (Chapter 8, \\"Republicans Versus Democrats-Maybe a Dime's Worth of Difference\\").  His defense of libertarianism is very topical considering the outrageous government spending bubble that has been created by the past two presidential administrations.<br /><br />We should be glad that Larry Elder took the time to say 10 verboten things about America and we should pray that in the future he will say 10,000 more.ich the two party system fails to represent all Americans (Chapter 8, \\"Republicans Versus Democrats-Maybe a Dime's Worth of Difference\\").  His defense of libertarianism is very topical considering the outrageous government spending bubble that has been created by the past two presidential administrations. <br /> <br />We should be glad that Larry Elder took the time to say 10 verboten things about America and we should pray that in the future he will say 10,000 more.    <br /> <br />	2005-06-07
US	48486228	R20E00JH3Q51C1	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	5	37	51	N	Y	Our Unmasterable Past.	It is somewhat ironic that Dr. Thomas Woods recently released How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization, as its celebration of Christianity may well make it as unpopular among the intelligentsia as is The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History.  The latter is a directed tour of our nation's forbidden history, and the title alone guarantees that it will never be found in any liberal arts syllabi.  I finished reading it yesterday and am somewhat surprised to admit just how much it has to offer.  In fact, I am now thoroughly bewildered as to the extent in which it was vilified by the mainstream media.<br /><br />Ordinarily, I don't pay a whole lot of attention to the derisive observations of The New York Times, but The Weekly Standard is a journal that I respect, and Max Boot's review was far from favorable.  Therefore, I assumed that Dr. Woods may have \\"gone over the edge\\" in this narrative, but am happy to report that this book cannot simply be dismissed with the word \\"polemic.\\"  I admit that I do not agree with all of the narrator's arguments and opinions; however, the little known facts, quotations, and accounts added much to my aggregate knowledge of America.  For this reason, the book's value cannot be denied.<br /><br />The ideas he shares are rare and necessary.  Through both the body of the text and in the inclusion of small boxes and sidebars, the narrator identifies primary sources and allows their voices to refute contemporary assessments on their own.  Items like \\"What Our Founders Said, What a President Said or What Our Allies Said\\" enable the words of the great men to resonate.  Dr. Woods also provides \\"PC Today\\" subsections that highlight the moronity of conventional wisdom (sic) regarding American history.  Further, the \\"A Book You're Not Supposed to Read\\" recommendations are quite serviceable for those of us not immersed in the historiography of America.  These little formatting aspects enhance the readability of The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History and heighten its pleasure.<br /><br />Most of these pages are a factual rejoinder to the dogma that proliferates around us.  Was Franklin Delano Roosevelt the hero that most of our citizens believe him to be?  The admiration that Roosevelt and his administration maintain seems fantastic given the anti-achievements of his economic record.  The New Deal merely consolidated and expanded the shadow socialism practiced by Herbert Hoover.  Indeed, when one closely evaluates FDR's programs and initiatives, he appears to be no more than an overly muscular, power-obsessed version of the president who preceded him.  In short, that Brahmin was no Messiah.  The New Deal made a mockery out of helping the poor as it subsidized the slaughtering of pigs and the destruction of grain in the hopes of boosting commodity prices while tens of thousands went to bed hungry as a result.  The actions of the federal government made the depression of the 1930s a Great Depression.<br /><br />Perhaps the most politically incorrect fact of all is that Joseph McCarthy was far more correct about the reality of the 1940s and 1950s than are many of the professors who instruct students about the period today.  Senator McCarthy was rude, drunk, and self-promoting, but the Venona Documents proved that our government was riddled with communist operatives.  This reality has not daunted our liberal aristocracy as they still obsess over the naming of names.  In the final analysis, it seems that not nearly enough were mouthed fifty years ago.  Venona has definitively proven that Communist Party USA was propped up by the Soviets solely for the purposes of espionage, and it is absurd to now pretend that communist affiliation did not increase the likelihood of one being a traitor.<br /><br />The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History has the type of bountiful yield that would make one of FDR's A.A.A. bureaucrats want to start up a tractor for the purposes of mowing it under.  I have no doubt that the reader, much like this reviewer, will discover useful facts and quotations within every chapter.  Certainly, with it being only 246 pages, it is not a definitive tome but it definitely is a start.  Hopefully more scholars will come forth and reclaim our factual history while forcefully arguing that telling the truth is not merely one form of historical narrative or perspective.  It is THE only perspective.  We need more Dr. Woods's to battle the Foners and Zinns who corrupt the nation's youth.  These charlatans have cut and pasted our historical record into a montage in which only slavery and oppression can be viewed.  We must undo their foul editing and let the brilliance of our centuries radiate.der.  I have no doubt that the reader, much like this reviewer, will discover useful facts and quotations within every chapter.  Certainly, with it being only 246 pages, it is not a definitive tome but it definitely is a start.  Hopefully more scholars will come forth and reclaim our factual history while forcefully arguing that telling the truth is not merely one form of historical narrative or perspective.  It is THE only perspective.  We need more Dr. Woods's to battle the Foners and Zinns who corrupt the nation's youth.  These charlatans have cut and pasted our historical record into a montage in which only slavery and oppression can be viewed.  We must undo their foul editing and let the brilliance of our centuries radiate.	2005-06-06
US	48486228	R15Y56WRU6VPHH	0786881852	358457399	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff: Simple Ways to Keep the Little Things from Taking Over Your Life (Don't Sweat the Small Stuff Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Nothing fancy, just the truth.	When I first heard it described, my impression was that \\"Don't Sweat...\\" sounded too pop and too easy for me to spend time reading.  My skepticism subsided about five pages in, however,  when I suddenly realized that these deceptively simple paragraphs and chapters contained numerous essential truths about the human condition.  In fact, ascertaining what the imperatives of life are should not be anywhere near as complex as we make them out to be.  We spend so much time obsessing about things that won't matter to us 10 days from now, let alone 10 years.  To fully understand the present is often to comprehend that the present is not very meaningful in the final analysis.<br /><br />In these 100 easy to scan and absorb lessons, Dr. Carlson gives his readers something far more valuable than fake self-esteem; he gives them perspective, and an accurate, nonjaded view of life has more worth than platinum.  The thing that I personally found most valuable about Dr. Carlson's message is that we can be, and often are, the catalysts for change in our own lives.  There's nothing we can do about other people's pathologies.  We must try to function as best we can amidst their dysfunctionalities.  Improving our own situations is fundamental.  We must avoid blaming others because that accomplishes nothing, and, most importantly, it moves us no further towards our goals.<br /><br />This is a work of joy and optimism, but why shouldn't our lives be imbued with the same characteristics as the text?  Carpe Diem is his final, parting message.  We must live every day as if it were our last because it may well turn out to be.	2005-05-21
US	48486228	R3MVK7PITDCZ42	0803280351	310365062	Chicago: The Second City	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Perfect Prose but a Dated Message.	This is the second A.J. Liebling book that I've read.  The first was Between Meals which was absolutely fantastic.  Chicago... is a beautiful piece of reportage about the city in which I live.  It is marred (seriously) only by its shrunken size.  It is a mere 140 pages long and much of the text is bloated by lengthy footnotes and cartoons.  Liebling's description of my town is a riveting historical relic that recreates the personality of Colonel McCormick, the newspapers of the past, a social scene that has no bearing to current reality, and demographics that are totally baffling to present residents.  This a fifties, pre-riots take on the second city and, as such, one cannot help but be surprised by some of its rhetoric.  Parts of the city that were in massive decline then are worth more than all but a few areas in the United States now.  This is notably true of the Old Town neighborhood which once possessed only German and Hungarian restaurants but now is a lively center of commerce with one bedroom condos worth as much or more than mansions in the suburbs.  Yet Liebling, like everyone else, should not be faulted for not predicting the future as gentrification is something that few thought possible until the eighties--which was long after he died.  Nearly all readers will marvel at the complexity and grandeur of his style, however.  This man was king of the metaphor as cliches were unknown to him.  His example enriches all writers who come across him.  If I were you though, I'd try to find these essays for free online somewhere because the price is too excessive for what you actually receive.  It's just too short to justify a cover price of $19.95.	2005-05-19
US	48486228	R3IKUGSUBISTYS	1400049520	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	5	19	N	N	Ann, More Roundhouses Please.	This is Ann Coulter's finest book.  It lacks the gratuitous venom of Treason and is on point the entire time.  Unlike How to Talk to a Liberal, there is a coherent theme here and not simply a rehash of old material.  Slander is fresh and courageous and that's why it sold millions of copies.  Much is made of her demeaning attitude towards her enemies, well, it certainly is true that she showers them with abuse and attitude, but what about when those of us on the right are called fascists, racists, sexists, or religious fanatics every time we open our mouths?  What many who criticize her don't understand is the fact that she always analyzes their arguments and defeats them before making insults.  However, concerning these verbal abuses, they are often witty and hilarious.  One of my favorite lines is when Coulter refers to Hollywood Starlets who denigrate Phyllis Schlafly that they \\"couldn't approach Schlafly's IQ if they were having brains instead of silicone injected.\\"  Although, some of it is rather profound such as when she states, \\"A central component of liberal hate speech is to make paranoid accusations based on their own neurotic influences.\\"  Quite right Ann, battle on--for us all. This is a wonderful book and was the pinnacle of her career if you ask me.	2005-05-14
US	48486228	R1RK12N8N7WE68	0786883367	791759742	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff at Work	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	If only every worker would read this one...	I think too many people in the psychology profession are snobby when it comes to analyzing social science works adored by the general public.  If the books or writers become too successful then they are dismissed as being \\"pop.\\"  This certainly has been the case with my peers in regards to the Dr. Richard Carlson \\"Don't Sweat the Small Stuff\\" series.  They could not be more wrong, however. This particular offering is a monograph of considerable value.  Other than this primer, I had only read the original, \\"...and it's all small stuff\\", edition. I found that, while the majority of his observations might not strike one as pure genius, they are steeped in common sense and are quite insightful.<br /><br />The theme here is \\"you be the adult.\\"  Even if your co-workers are acting like a bunch of ignorant sixth graders, you must rise above it.  You're better than that.  You'll forgive, work, and move on.  Office politics is a fleeting and shallow endeavor.  Keep your eyes on what you want in life.  Many of those around you will be forgotten in a few years time and there's no reason to obsess over their opinions.  They don't matter and, while you should be as kind and friendly as is possible, your long-term goals and aspirations are what counts.  With annoying and dominant co-workers, when you lose your temper you tranfer power to them and give them the satisfaction that they have been looking for.  Being above the frey is the last thing they want, but that's exactly where you should be.<br /><br />One of my favorite things that Dr. Carlson argues is that being relaxed and comfortable is essential to job performance and productivity.  Further, there is nothing lazy or shameful about being in a good mood while on the clock.  Do you help the company or institution by walking around like a grump so people have to proofread continuously what they're about to say to you?  Certainly not.  The wisdom is this book is not complex but it's not something that you will automatically figure out on your own.<br /><br />Don't Sweat the Small Stuff at Work is written in the same style as his other texts.  It is extremely reader friendly as it is small and fits into a coat pocket.  There are 284 pages which are efficiently broke up into 100 chapters.  It won't take long to read, but, if you're like me and have had lots of difficulties dealing with the emotional baggage of others during your career, you will savor it for a long while.  Dr. Carlson did us a great service by examining this subject.gure out on your own.<br /><br />Don't Sweat the Small Stuff at Work is written in the same style as his other texts.  It is extremely reader friendly as it is small and fits into a coat pocket.  There are 284 pages which are efficiently broke up into 100 chapters.  It won't take long to read, but, if you're like me and have had lots of difficulties dealing with the emotional baggage of others during your career, you will savor it for a long while.  Dr. Carlson did us a great service by examining this subject.	2005-05-14
US	48486228	RURFVPN4Q0P9G	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	9	14	N	N	No BS Here.	I've heard a lot of people say that this book is vulgar and trite but I don't think so.  I think Frankfurt's extended essay is quite valuable and useful in describing the people with which one interacts on a daily basis.  He's right in saying that there's more bullsh-t today than in previous times (even though he wrote it more than a decade ago).<br /><br />Personally, I immediatly lifted two quotations from these pages for a compiliation about blowhards that I'm putting together.  If I wasn't set against exhausting a single source then I would have pasted in several more.  Individuals who distort, self-promote, and blather are all around us; it's worth taking the time to study them.  Hopefully we can inoculate ourselves against some of the damage that they cause.<br /><br />What's really interesting about Frankfurt's approach is that he quickly makes delineations between bullsh-t and words that are often used as synonyms for it, such as lying, humbug, nonsense, hot air and even \\"bull session.\\"  There are some great quotations in it as well like the one from Wittgenstein. Overall, it's a good humored but provocative read.  It's certainly worth the five or six bucks that you'll pay for it on Amazon.	2005-05-11
US	48486228	RXFZPL4KRRK2T	0976261308	597343655	The Rantings of a Single Male: Losing Patience with Feminism, Political Correctness... and Basically Everything, First Edition	Books	5	152	187	N	N	Single Male Alone...and On Fire.	I was at a job interview last year and the administrator before me was in her late sixties and outfitted in a traditional tweed business suit.  Halfway through the questions I started to get the distinct impression that she liked me.  She then critiqued the habits of the person who previously held the position and dismissed her as being \\"such a woman.\\"  She then asked if I knew what she meant?  I suspected a trap so I told her uneasily that I did not.  The administrator remarked that she hated going into meetings without a man at her side.<br /><br />\\"No conference goes smoothly without a man in your corner.  Women can do a lot of things but they're just not as effective in showdowns as men.\\"<br /><br />Didn't I think so?  I gave no answer and hoped she'd move on to another subject.  She did not.  The question was repeated.  Sheepishly I confessed that I did not know because I had always been present in the meetings I attended.  I had to say something along those lines as her commentary was so politically incorrect that I doubted it to be genuine. I'll never know whether she was toying with me or not, however, as I did not hear back from that district.  If she was being sincere, such women, and men for that matter, are about as rare as girls who scour the unemployment lists in the hopes of finding future husbands.<br /><br />Although we can be sure of one thing, author Thomas Ellis has met precious few women like the one who interviewed me, but, in his life there has been no shortage of radical feminists, lipstick feminists, butch lesbians, lesbians in non-Wrangler clothing, herbologists, paranormal photographers, and occultist hangers-on.  As they often say, \\"He has lived.\\"  A great many of his experiences are described in depth as a supplement to his meticulous analysis and observation concerning men, women, government, and nearly every element of our sexual lives in his recent release, The Rantings of a Single Male: Losing Patience with Feminism, Political Correctness, and Basically Everything.<br /><br />Yet, his title is oddly inappropriate.  This compendium of wisdom is written in a calm and (nearly) respectful tone.  It is not a rant in the least.  Ellis offers up a work of logic.  He never lets emotion obscure the points that he makes.  The narrative is joyful and more reminiscent of boys blowing up Blackcats and Ladyfingers in the backyard than of a forsaken heretic clacking away in a dungeon upon a keyboard.  Ellis is more Fred Reed than Matthew Fitzgerald.  Very few gross overgeneralizations can be detected in these 26 alphabetically organized chapters.  He counterattacks the feminazis and man-haters with reason and wit alone.  Yes, there are insults on many a page but they are more along the lines of Mr. Reed's \\"PhD=Purple Haired Dyke,\\" than declarations of war against 51 percent of the population.<br /><br />The honest truth is that I was not prepared to enjoy this tome as much as I did.  I leafed through its pages and expected it to be overstated and vulgar, yet the author clearly is in earnest and conducted a great of research before putting it together.  Ellis is intimately familiar with the feminist satanic works and also the responses to them which sprung from brave and defiant men.  For those readers who follower the men's rights literature, I would place The Rantings of a Single Male as being a rung above The Miseducation of Women but a notch below Spreading Misandry: The Teaching of Contempt for Men in Popular Culture in terms of value and message.<br /><br />The Rantings of a Single Male is a work of tremendous importance.  It draws all the right conclusions about the serfification of the modern male.  We are, thanks to the government, the inferior sex and it's time people started talking about.  This book jams a piece of soundproofing into the Leviathan public address system that is political correctness, but we are still thousands of sections away from silencing it. Perhaps Ellis's book will never be abestseller, but it is essential reading for anyone who despises the fascist version of tolerance that pervades our culture.  Anyone who refuses to apologize for their genitalia, skin color, or nationality should buy a few copies for their friends, or better yet, leave them upon the doorsteps of their enemies.  Who knows, maybe they might even peruse a couple of pages and then question their masters.  If more and more of us took a courageous stand like Thomas Ellis, men wouldn't remain leaden tackling dummies in the endless powder-puff scrimmages that constitute gender relations.book will never be a bestseller, but it is essential reading for anyone who despises the fascist version of tolerance that pervades our culture.  Anyone who refuses to apologize for their genitalia, skin color, or nationality should buy a few copies for their friends, or better yet, leave them upon the doorsteps of their enemies.  Who knows, maybe they might even peruse a couple of pages and then question their masters.  If more and more of us took a courageous stand like Thomas Ellis, men wouldn't remain leaden tackling dummies in the endless powder-puff scrimmages that constitute gender relations.   <br />	2005-05-11
US	48486228	R1Y8B5VBL0FN2J	1932968237	934823174	New Art of War, Tactics, and Power: A New Rendition of Teachings from Sun Tzu's the Art of War, Niccolo Machiavelli's the Prince, Baltasar Gracian's the Art of Worldly Wisdom, and the Works of Han Fei Tzu	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Wisdom of Posterity.	The New Art of War is a summary involving four of history's richest observors of power and human nature.  The ideas of Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, Baltasar Gracian, and Han Fei Tzu are packaged into an easily accessible book and then recapitulated with modern readers in mind.  One can see how this would be useful to those in the business world and how the development of a strategy concerning interactions with others would benefit<br /><br />aspiring executives.<br /><br />It was helpful to read Ohebsion's descriptions of The Prince and The Art of War even though I was already highly familiar with the conclusions of those quasi-prophets. Yet, despite the nobility of Machievelli and Sun Tzu the latter two sages, Gracian and Han Fei Tzu, were what really stood out in the text.  I was a novice to their ideas and their thoughts before opening these pages. Baltasar Gracian's The Art of Worldly Wisdom is definitely something that I want to one day study in its entirety.  His insight on human nature is astounding. The statement, \\"People must be studied as deeply as books,\\" should be posted on the wall. His injunction against falling into the quagmire of trivial matters is pure gold and a point that is universally applicable to man.  With Han Fei Tzu, the fact that his views are galaxies away from the touchy-feely pap ruinously issued by self-help books mandates that these observations be read again and again.  Wouldn't Bill Clinton have benefited from Tzu's admonition, \\"The wise ruler, in conducting himself with women, enjoys them, but doesn't let them manipulate and control him with their requests.\\"  Ah, had he followed this there would have been \\"no blue light/two for one special\\" during his presidency.  Overall, the author does us a great service by elucidating the brainwork of these forgotten masterminds.<br /><br />I did have one criticism of the book which stemmed from its lack of a unifying, integrating introduction.  The ideas of these giants must be synthesized for the reader and presented as one vision.  Thta is essential. The author needs to let the reader know why these minds are so exceptional and also what their application is to the present day.  Certainly, once we read the book we can figure that out for ourselves (hopefully) but a strong preliminary statement would have been useful. Regrettably, it was absent.reader and presented as one vision.  Thta is essential. The author needs to let the reader know why these minds are so exceptional and also what their application is to the present day.  Certainly, once we read the book we can figure that out for ourselves (hopefully) but a strong preliminary statement would have been useful. Regrettably, it was absent.	2005-05-08
US	48486228	R2IFK3CPJLJCJD	0312304439	3398800	One Nation Under Therapy: How the Helping Culture Is Eroding Self-Reliance	Books	5	155	207	N	Y	Thank You For Not Sharing.	Years ago I was enrolled in a psychology class in which I happened to be the only male present.  On the first day, there were about thirty students arrayed at desks around a blackboard.  The professor came in and introduced herself.  Then she requested that each student say their name while \\"telling the class some details about yourself.\\"  When the procession reached me I said my name...and nothing else.  The professor eyed me carefully.  She then asked, \\"Won't you tell us something about yourself?\\"<br /><br />\\"No,\\" I answered. \\"I don't get into all that stuff.\\"<br /><br />Such expectations of personalization and sharing are now sadly the norm in primary, secondary, and higher education classrooms across the country.  Requests to emote come from one's peers and associates and are more rule than exception.  Reticence in meetings or events is viewed with suspicion.  The value of being \\"A Quiet Man\\" man well have died with John Wayne.<br /><br />Our nation is under the thrall of a movement that exerts its loathsome and self-righteous influence upon us whenever we tug at a dog's leash or tell somebody that they should \\"toughen up.\\"  The name of this movement and belief system is therapism and its take over of America has displaced traditional values like resilience, drive, pride, and honor.<br /><br />For this reviewer, the most intriguing sections of the book concern our public schools which have become, in many ways, a loco therapistis for the country's children.  To summarize the current situation, our primary and secondary institutions are presently expected to provide services which they are in no way qualified to offer.  It is now believed by many professionals that bestowing students with a good education alone is not fulfilling our mission.  They regard it as essential that we prepare pupils for every facet of life.  The line between teacher and social worker is becoming increasingly blurred.<br /><br />The school as one stop well-being center is now accepted by many an educator.  Obsessing about feelings and processing them is the height of chic. The posture of care makes others regard you as devoted, empathic and vested.  Should one appear otherwise they will look like a bat-wielding Neanderthal.  Exploring moods and student vicissitudes is cutting edge.  It's right up there with using words like \\"modality\\" and \\"rubric.\\"<br /><br />Should a teacher desire alienation, they would be advised to bring a copy of  \\"Exploding the Self-Esteem Myth\\" into their building's faculty lounge and begin quoting from its pages extemporaneously.<br /><br />By practicing reticence and reserve in regards to their feelings and thoughts it seems that many of our ancestors lived unfilled lives.  Yet, One Nation Under Therapy illustrates that the endlessly processing of feelings makes for pessimistic and dispirited obsessions-and little else.  Through constant discussion, irritation can morph into rage.  The evidence suggests that inhibition and repression can be more adaptive responses to grief and stress than blabbing your feelings to every passerby.<br /><br />How did such toxic views and practices arise? Sommers and Satel, in the chapter \\"Esteem Thyself\\", point in the direction of humanistic psychology and the works of Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers.  With the latter, his insistence that the quintessential question of life was, \\"Am I living in a way which is deeply satisfying to me, and which truly expresses me?\\" indicates just how shallow and narcissistic he desired his patients to be.  On the left they might refer to such a solid link to therapism as \\"a root cause.\\"  On the right we might dismiss it with the commandment of \\"Get Over Thyself.\\"  Rogers saw schools as \\"personal growth centers\\" with nonjudgmentalism as their core requirement.  As for Maslow, his theories were so vague and unfalsifiable that they left themselves open for misrepresentation and manipulation by thugs like Abbie Hoffman and Charles Dederich.  Humanistic theory bares as close a resemblance to the truth as the fantasist political works of Noam Chomsky.<br /><br />We live in days when the saying \\"Be Strong\\" is equated with insensitivity and that appeals to bravery are an embarrassment to those who make them.  There is only one thing that must be done; all of us must be as judgmental as possible.  We should never excuse the immoral behavior surrounding us.  Rather than minimalize and rationalize pathological acts on the part of the narcissistic, violent, or drug-addicted, our nation must embrace personal responsibility without qualifications.  We should follow the advice that Don Imus gives the sick children on his ranch, its time to \\"Cowboy Up.\\"theory bares as close a resemblance to the truth as the fantasist political works of Noam Chomsky. <br /> <br />We live in days when the saying \\"Be Strong\\" is equated with insensitivity and that appeals to bravery are an embarrassment to those who make them.  There is only one thing that must be done; all of us must be as judgmental as possible.  We should never excuse the immoral behavior surrounding us.  Rather than minimalize and rationalize pathological acts on the part of the narcissistic, violent, or drug-addicted, our nation must embrace personal responsibility without qualifications.  We should follow the advice that Don Imus gives the sick children on his ranch, its time to \\"Cowboy Up.\\"	2005-05-04
US	48486228	R3T12R2AWOKLUZ	0895260190	388961491	South Park Conservatives: The Revolt Against Liberal Media Bias	Books	5	23	36	N	Y	Viva La South Park Revolucion!	The idea that one possesses social views that diverge from the average conservative has caused many of us on the right to use \\"libertarian\\" as a means of self-description. Yet, there may be a better term for those devoted to the free market, the nation's defense, and who consider pornography...slightly less than offensive.  Andrew Sullivan was the first to describe such a subclass with words, \\"South Park Republicans.\\"  The notion of cross-cultural rightists has since been expounded upon by numerous pundits.  Brian Anderson first addressed the subject in 2003 through an essay in City Journal, a magazine he edits, called \\"We're Not Losing the Culture Wars Anymore.\\"  Mr. Anderson now celebrates this ultramodern breed of anti-perfectionists in his South Park Conservatives: The Revolt Against Liberal Media Bias.<br /><br />What is so provocative about the work is the notion of \\"South Park Conservative.\\"  What one immediately must ask is whether or not such people even exist.  The reviewer can answer the question affirmatively because he has had the pleasure to meet many of them. It is undeniable that political correctness and the smugness of liberals has generated a hybrid breed of conservative; one who possesses earthy cultural trappings but can no longer tolerate the self-righteousness and mock seriousness inherent to the emotion fueled left.  If the existence of the South Parker surprises traditional conservatives, imagine how unnerving it must be for your average liberal to discover that the guy who sat next to him during Phish's last concert had the Opinion Journal delivered to his Inbox every morning.<br /><br />Like the brilliant cartoon itself, the book offers both reality and joy.  An early review mentioned how funny these pages are, and the observation is certainly correct.  Many episodes from the wildly creative and irreverent South Park are referenced and quoted.  Dennis Miller's comedy, along with the reasons for his departure from the left, are discussed in detail.  His metaphors [\\"stop me before I subreference again\\"] are precious, and the same can be said of the way in which he inflames the sensitivity police.  Anderson's discussion of lesser known comics like Pete Correale, Julia Gorin, and Nick Di Paolo are inspiring as a conservative counter-presence in American entertainment is greatly needed even if it only slightly mitigates the damage the left has done via its years of transcendence.  Colin Quinn's Tough Crowd is a bleeped out television version of Arts & Letters when compared to the PC pap offered to viewers each night by the networks.<br /><br />The strongest part of the book is the chapter \\"Illiberal Liberalism\\" where the notion of \\"liberating tolerance\\" is addressed and refuted.  For the uninitiated, this is a counterfeit byproduct of the 1960s that was originally fabricated by Herbert Marcuse for use in making conservative points of view outside the pale of civilized discourse.  The author quite appropriately blames it for much of the incivility infecting our contemporary political discussions.  The way that this is practiced is through leftists appealing to tolerance after people disagree with them while simultaneously condemning whatever is mouthed by the right as racist, homophobic, sexist, elitist, and/or mean-spirited.  The attacks on those diverging from politically correct dogma are severe and integral to the \\"toleration\\" and \\"diversity\\" endemic to anti-liberals.  The famous quote by Nat Henthoff, \\"free speech for me-but not for thee,\\" is cited and resonates loudly.  This double-standard and lust for censorship is perhaps what is most repulsive about the American left.<br /><br />What may astonish baby boomer and Generation X conservatives, however, is the panic attacks that the monolithic campus left has suffered due to the recent emergence of Republican student organizations.  In the chapter, \\"Campus Conservatives Rising,\\" Anderson explores the arrogance of the moveon.org professors.  Anyone whohas ever read The Shadow University will be well-familiar with the totalitarian efforts of our pseudo-scholars to squelch difference if they happen to encounter it on the way to their teach-ins.  Imagine what hard working, tuition paying, fortune squandering, parents think when they see that their freshman daughter's syllabus for English contains, as its goal, to explore the hidden \\"homosexuality, pederasty, and incest\\" facets of the great works of western civilization.<br /><br />The recent attempt to pass an Academic Bill of Rights has proved that the champagne socialists possess bubbly but no clothes.  Anderson recounts a legislative hearing concerning the bill's passage, when a philosophy department chair walked up to a student and jammed him in the chest saying, \\"I will sue your f--king a-- if this bill passes.\\"  Yet, amid such bleakness, South Park Conservatives finds hope as the author documents the exponential growth of the right in the academy- even within the leftist redoubts of the Ivy League.<br /><br />Even if conservadom reached the same amount of people as the mainstream media and Hollywood, reason never competes with the flushed Night Train buzz of emotion in the minds of youth.  Such minute points aside, Brian Anderson has powerfully introduced the larger world to the reality of a growing, and occasionally breeding, block of conservatives that clusterbomb liberal orthodoxies.  Allow me to speak on the behalf of Kyle, Stan, Cartman and Dennis Miller when I iconoclastically thank him for his efforts.niversity will be well-familiar with the totalitarian efforts of our pseudo-scholars to squelch difference if they happen to encounter it on the way to their teach-ins.  Imagine what hard working, tuition paying, fortune squandering, parents think when they see that their freshman daughter's syllabus for English contains, as its goal, to explore the hidden \\"homosexuality, pederasty, and incest\\" facets of the great works of western civilization.     The recent attempt to pass an Academic Bill of Rights has proved that the champagne socialists possess bubbly but no clothes.  Anderson recounts a legislative hearing concerning the bill's passage, when a philosophy department chair walked up to a student and jammed him in the chest saying, \\"I will sue your f--king a-- if this bill passes.\\"  Yet, amid such bleakness, South Park Conservatives finds hope as the author documents the exponential growth of the right in the academy- even within the leftist redoubts of the Ivy League.      Even if conservadom reached the same amount of people as the mainstream media and Hollywood, reason never competes with the flushed Night Train buzz of emotion in the minds of youth.  Such minute points aside, Brian Anderson has powerfully introduced the larger world to the reality of a growing, and occasionally breeding, block of conservatives that clusterbomb liberal orthodoxies.  Allow me to speak on the behalf of Kyle, Stan, Cartman and Dennis Miller when I iconoclastically thank him for his efforts.	2005-04-24
US	48486228	R3AWASC0RQ7PNW	076156375X	398927034	Why the Left Hates America: Exposing the Lies That Have Obscured Our Nation's Greatness	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Just the Facts...and they're Something.	I just read this one for the second time and enjoyed it more than I did two years ago.  Dan Flynn presents a compelling case that leftists, meaning the far left and not your average Democrat, root against our nation whenever possible.  They are repelled by everything that America stands for and only want to accentuate failures and never successes. They are angry at their nation for disproving all of their theories ranging from the functionality of socialism to the misbelief that all cultures are equal.  This book is fast moving and Flynn's style is very concise.  He wastes few words and gives us a tome of proof in 213 pages. Why the Left... is thoroughly cited and the author takes the time to doggedly show that, while we are not perfect, the United States is far superior to every alternative.  You'll be twice as grateful for your citizenship after you finish it.	2005-04-19
US	48486228	R39CY6UXFGQKW5	0465030327	237103339	Letters to a Young Contrarian (Art of Mentoring)	Books	5	142	146	N	N	An Education in Itself.	It's easy to forget sometimes, based on the flair and panache he exudes on the television screen, just how educated Christopher Hitchens actually is.  In this book, you'll be treated to a lifetime's worth of insight and scholarship as he provides the reader with some of the best citations you'll ever come across, including, \\"Here I stand I can do no other\\" by Martin Luther.<br /><br />Hitchens is a contrarian but these Letters will appeal to anyone as they are the celebration of the mind via reason. When he first heard \\"the personal is political,\\" he knew it was poison and he rails against the emotional approach to deciding issues in these pages.  I am very glad he did.  I couldn't help but think what I've thought about him so many times, \\"This is such a brave man.\\"<br /><br />Regardless of what one believes regarding his arguments and positions, the author always puts forth sound rationale for why he thinks the way he does.  His critique of conformists is absolutely precious and I would be only too happy to give this book to any young person.  It's an education in itself.	2005-04-16
US	48486228	R11YPHP9N2STH6	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	128	156	N	N	How to Live Your Life.	For those of us who work in psychology, there is often a tendency to look down on works that were created for the mainstream population.  They are sometimes dismissed as \\"pop psychology.\\"  I believe that I regarded How to Win Friends... until I read it upon the recommendation of a friend.  I could not have been more wrong about a book.  Although Carnegie's title is often the target of derision, it is a deceptively deep and important work.  There's a very good reason why How to Win Friends... has been a bestseller for seventy years as the man shares essential truths with us about human behavior.  Every single one of us can profit from his advice.  His central ideas, such as that one should avoid arguments whenever possible, cannot be questioned.  The command that one should listen to others and let them talk about themselves is crucial to being liked.  A \\"simple\\" idea like that one is one that actually works.  I'm considering putting his nine rules for effective leadership on my wall so I can remember to generate enthusiasm in others and lead by example.<br /><br />I was really surprised as to how much this book matters and how much I learned by reading it.  Yes, some of the advice may be obvious, but it brings the correct way in which to interact with others to the forefront of the mind and that's why it's so valuable.	2005-04-03
US	48486228	R33VXB1SGNE0AS	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sublime Art.	I'm still not certain as to where Henry Miller rates among American authors, but I have to say that I just read Tropic... for the second time and enjoyed it almost as much as the first.<br /><br />As a word of warning to prospective readers, the first 50 pages is rather uneven and not reflective of the grandeur you'll find in the following 250.  Don't put it down as you will be immeasurably rewarded.<br /><br />Tropic of Cancer is an unprecedented blend of beauty, poetry, art, metaphor, and plot.  Believe it or not, Miller may be at his strongest when he relays to the reader the astounding specifics of his squalid and lascivious existence in a Bohemian Paris that is gone forever.  It'll make you want to buy a DeLorean, hire a mad professor, and travel back in time to a locale where there was no shame in pleasure and no shame in compulsively pursuing it.  So much of the description is wonderously decorative and memorable.  The city of Paris should erect monuments to Miller for the way in which he preserved an era for posterity.  For some reason in Tropic... unlike in a book like \\"Kafka was All the Rage\\", the perpetual use of metaphor works and does not annoy the reader.  Perhaps it is due to Miller's originality and flair for conversational description.  He is a listener and the author describes the human voice perfectly.  Miller is strongest when telling a story creatively as opposed to philosophizing.  In Tropic... there is just enough story and characterization to make the work a resounding success.  It's not a book for the timid, however.	2005-04-02
US	48486228	R3KDG9B2S4CHJM	0312420234	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	When will the brilliance end?	This is a collection of essays from the master of realistic fiction that are organized loosely around a few themes.  They are of varying length and the two best, \\"Hooking Up\\" and \\"In The Land of the Rococo Marxists\\", are unfortunately much shorter than most of the others.  The title essay is excellent but you'll find yourself finishing it after thirty minutes time which is a pity because the man who wrote \\"I am Charlotte Simmons\\" has volumes to say about the sexual relations of the young in America.  \\"In The Land of the Rococo Marxists\\" is a comical look at the Young Turks who basically now own our universities and are of varying ages.  How ironic it is that these famous postmodern profs drive Jaguars and conspicuously consume while both decrying capitalism and America?  Well, unfortunately, ironic or not, we're stuck with them.  They've dug into the academy like hedgehogs.  As you probably know, Wolfe can write about nearly anything and do so with flair and panache.  We see this here with his exposes of the business world, specifically, in \\"Two Young Men Who Went West\\", the new businesses geniuses of the sixties and seventies are profiled like Bob Noyce of Fairchild Semiconductor and Intel.  In an another piece, he even describes Bill Gates for us.  The New Yorker essays are rather dated as he reprints spoofs he wrote in the sixties of their editor, William Shawn, and his dry, boring magazine, but the bizarre reaction to his send-ups do not fail to amaze and entertain.  Lastly, I must recommend his \\"My Three Stooges\\" for the way in which it describes the past and future of the American novel while skewing literary heroes like Normal Mailer, John Updike, and John Irving.  These three cattily attack Wolfe for varying reasons after the publication of his \\"Man in Full.\\"  Here, in this collection, is a man in full and nearly everything he writes is worth reading.	2005-03-29
US	48486228	R2TR8TONS6PW0O	0385479433	129609703	In Defense of Elitism	Books	5	9	17	N	N	Thank you Mr. Henry, RIP.	I just read this book for the second time and it was better than the first.  Here we have the classic story of an old school \\"pacifism is not the answer; America is not Amerika\\" Democrat being careened rightwards by the sick, irrational forces of political correctness.  The author is bewildered to find himself agreeing with people like me on countless issues due to the lies of radical feminism, afrocentrism, and queer studies.  He knows that it's all hogwash and regrets the minimalization of his own college achievements by the Burger King, \\"you want it; we graduate it,\\" attitutde of the academy today.  Many of the examples he cites are tragic, but absolutely hilarious.  This is an old-fashioned pistol whipping of PC even though Henry may have mixed feelings about giving it.  Although the reader won't have any mixed feelings about spending time with the author's rich, elite style.  Most of his friends are liberals and one can gets to observe, through his stories, their obvious discomfort with the sensitivity police that are ruining their careers and their lives.  These liberals, unlike conservatives like myself, are frustrated by the fact that they'll be in many a catfight should they say anything about it.  William Henry, you are missed. Culture warriors like you are tough to replace.	2005-03-24
US	48486228	R3R4D7FE922ZFH	1585422274	78403350	Saying Yes: In Defense of Drug Use	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	A Scholarly Review.	I bought this book two weeks ago and really was not sure what exactly it would be.  I hoping that Sullum would write a well-referenced work that provided a fairly objective analysis of drugs and the ensuing war against them, and that's basically what I got.  Although, the reader is never in doubt as to what the author's opinion is regarding his subject, this is a scholarly synopsis of the literature and studies that embody our knowledge of psychoactive substances.  Sullum always presents both sides of the issue and never retreats to the shallow role of advocate.<br /><br />I personally have not tried, nor will I be trying, most of the drugs that are discussed in this book but I can say that I recognize the futility in our societal war on whatever the FDA and DEA suspect private individuals of currently enjoying at the moment.  Some of the arguments he presents are quite convincing such as the legitimate medical uses of marijuana, and also the way we avoid examining the occasional darkness of human nature by making drugs the scapegoat for the acts of promiscuous sex, violence, and irresponsibility that we commit.  Much of \\"Saying Yes\\" is a historical survey of drug origins and interdiction efforts, and this background information is absolutely fascinating.  Some of the discussion left me unmoved as I do not buy LSD as having any legitimate uses, but I was glad to read views that contradicted my own on the subject.<br /><br />Overall, a strong \\"yes\\" must be given in regards to this book.  We should not be surprised as Jacob Sullum has always been an engaging and stylistic writer.  I read his articles in Reason whenever I get the chance.	2005-03-20
US	48486228	R2CZDS1P2HTDN8	0312310846	349462775	The Complete A**hole's Guide to Handling Chicks	Books	5	130	191	N	Y	Outrageous Fun.	I cannot think of any book that would more offend Big Feminism or the avatars of political correctness than this one.  I'm not surprised that the authors used cover names when publishing it.  The premise of the book is, unless you're rich or famous, you have to be a SOB to consistently pick up women.  There is much truth in this assumption.  That women are receptive to bad boys appears undeniable even if it is profoundly depressing to those of us who treat them kindly.  The writers here want to teach their readers how to become a**holes so they can become more successful obtaining the pleasures that the opposite sex has to offer.  In the case of this reviewer, however, it's too late.  I seem to have a biological predisposition to being nice to women I like--this desire, I believe, is actually rather healthy but is counter-productive in the short-term.  I do think that there is great humor in many of their rules, asides, and stories.  Accusations of misogyny will (and have) be directed towards these guys, and, although I would like to defend them, I cannot.  They make some sweeping generalizations that are not completely accurate, but I think that's all part of the Andrew Dice Clay tone they adopt.  To them, it's all in good fun.  It won't be to feministas, who complain on a daily basis about the average man's lack of submission, so one can only imagine the conniptions they'll have after reading this.  Let's hope it becomes a classic in Womyn's Studies departments across the country.	2005-03-08
US	48486228	R3OWD7MODL9722	1595230033	703264751	Do-Gooders: How Liberals Hurt Those They Claim to Help (and the Rest of Us)	Books	5	24	37	N	Y	The Law of Unintended Consequence.	I've always enjoyed Mona Charen's columns and have read her regularly since 2000 or so.  It was both her work as a columnist and the book's title that made me pick up \\"Do-Gooders.\\"  First, I have to say that I was taken aback by the quality of her efforts here. Charen conducts an extensive amount of research and shares it all with her readers in these pages.  This is true of the education chapter in particular which seems as if it's quotation after quotation.  With crime, there's no better way to illustrate the failures of liberalism than to address the careers and words of Mayor John Lindsay and Ramsay Clark.  Their therapeutic responses to crime exacerbated nearly every social evil in America. It seems as if everything that the utopian mind addresses or modifies turns into a complete nightmare.  It's better to have a carpenter and a plumber design our laws than a few dreamers at a university.<br /><br />Charen's writing style is pleasant and informative.  This is no easy to dismiss polemic because Mona Charen is no Ann Coulter.  She does not call those she disagrees with names or insult them.  The author lets the disasterous nature of their decision making speak for itself.  My guess is that the left probably will not deal with this one directly and that they will be content to let it largely go unreviewed.  It's too lethal a critique of the nanny state for them to even begin to mention.	2005-03-06
US	48486228	R3NRF9G91INEDZ	0761123695	884635098	The Introvert Advantage: How Quiet People Can Thrive in an Extrovert World	Books	4	8	10	N	N	You'll Feel Normal!	The Introvert Advantage is a book that I highly recommend if you're a bookish, Amazonian type like myself.  Laney does a thorough and commendable job in defining introversion and illustrating the way in which our society is a place where extroversion is the norm and introversion is a pathology. Some of the ways that she describes introversion will ring true immediately as they include receiving energy from being alone, being alienated by having to interact with a myriad of people all night, hating to be interrupted, and not equating \\"alone\\" with \\"lonely.\\"  It is very difficult to explain to others that you don't have the same needs that they have, and after reading this book, you may feel less like you have to.  You'll feel good about yourself, not because it offers cheap self-esteem, but due to Laney's observations being accurate.<br /><br />I did have a few criticisms, however.  This book could have been better if its language weren't so folksy.  It really can't be used for the purposes of scholarly quotation.  Also, Laney seems oblivious to the fact that the Myers-Briggs is not a legitimate assessment instrument, and that Jung's theories are not widely accepted nowadays.  Yet, these flaws are relatively minor as the book overall is quite worthy.	2005-03-06
US	48486228	RIX7UWACLTOM7	0060936975	378058051	How I Accidentally Joined the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Vastly Underrated.	I just reread this for the first time this weekend after not having opened it for five years.  I remembered it mostly as an entertaining personal memoir which was really not giving the author the credit he deserved as there is considerable political punching power within these 270 plus pages.  Stein examines most of the great issues of our day, and illustrates the way in which common sense has the power to alter one's political beliefs.  In this autobiographical account, he discusses all manner of societal hot topics from feminism, gay rights, The New York Times, media bias, and the political parties.  His refutation of political correctness was quite impressive and I only wish that more people internalized it.  Stein is a very gifted writer as he does a magnificent job of recreating the personalities of the individuals he discusses, such as Tennessee Williams and Harvey Fierstein and countless others.  The title of this book is a reflection of Stein's wit and humor, but one should be forewarned that his views are not lightweight.	2005-03-01
US	48486228	R2WRNYJKYW2CMS	1553650018	627536633	Big Sister: How Extreme Feminism has Betrayed the Fight for Sexual Equality	Books	4	7	12	N	Y	Read and Comprehend.	This is actually, despite its title, a very mainstream book.  Boyd is not a conservative, and, at least three times by my recollection, he goes out of his way to point out all the ways in which feminism has benefited North America and how valuable it once was [sic].  Yet, despite its supposed past achievements in the areas of pornography, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, and societal outlook, feminism is bringing about a new dark age.  It is an age where the opinions of women outweigh facts and where a woman is idolized as a bastion of power, yet also viewed, by the law, as a hothouse flower that wilts after hearing a dirty joke or reference.<br /><br />Boyd has written a thorough and meticulous book that documents the way in which emotion has triumphed over reason when it comes to feminist issues.  The legal cases he presents are maddening and outrageous.  Of course, the transcendence of Big Sister is most notable in the universities and the author does a thorough job in covering the state of affairs within our radical ivory petri dishes.  Yes, of course, the book is particularly depressing if you happen to be a man but discovering the truth is always worth a few deflating moments.  A side effect of reading this book is that, should anyone ever be foolish enough to consider moving to Canada, they will quickly reconsider after perusing some of the decisions of The Canadian Supreme Court regarding sexual harassment and the censorship of film.  It's a wonder that this fine Northern people has not taken the time to notice that Andrea Dworkin and Catherine MacKinnon are taken more seriously by their government than the truth itself.  Let's just hope that Hillary and Big Sisters are kept away from (absolute) power for as long as is possible United States.	2005-02-26
US	48486228	R1XJIYHR97M0BB	030010510X	996551178	Getting It Wrong from the Beginning: Our Progressivist Inheritance from Herbert Spencer, John Dewey, and Jean Piaget	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Getting it Right in Hindsight.	This is an outstanding title for a book and I could not wait for it to arrive in the mail.  The author proves to be quite witty and authoritative regarding the history of education and the way in which it has been influenced, and in turn dominated, by the progressives.  His recapitulation of the career of the Herbert Spencer was quite insightful but no where is Egan stronger than in the chapter that discusses the impact that progressivism has had on the study of history and all other forms of knowledge that are not directly useful to the real world (such as Latin).<br /><br />Many of his observations about progressive education are worth highlighting, but the reason I could not give \\"Getting it Wrong from the Beginning\\" a higher rating is that I did not find the book to be particularly readable.  It is a dry slog that takes longer than one would expect based on its less than 200 pages.  Had he included more examples from our modern public schools I would have found it more useful as a reference work.  Egan's put considerable thought into his positions though so the book is definitely worth a serious skim.	2005-02-21
US	48486228	R1RRZDAQDVWWOA	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Our Anti-Father Down Below.	After at least a decade and several personal recommendations to read it each year, I finally got around to buying \\"The Screwtape Letters.\\"  The initial emotion I experienced after reading its introduction was jealously as I could not help but wish that it was I, and not Lewis, who had such an ingenious idea.  Once you discover the book's method, which is of a senior demon writing to his nephew with recommendations on how to steal souls, you'll be astounded at the wonderful complexity of the author's mind.  His reverse theological technique provided ample opportunity to skewer many of the most powerful members of England's WWII society.  What is most remarkable about the book is that it is even more applicable to our present day world than it was to the author's era.  Moderate and touchy-feely churches are ubiquitous to our landscape and Screwtape undoubtedly would be most pleased with their constant empthasis on social issues rather than the Lord's Word.  The book has tremendous meaning as it difficult to dismiss the possibility that the Devil influences our daily lives and the world around us.  One cannot help but wonder if their are Screwtapes and Wormwoods in the air we breath who attempt, with subtle direction, to steer us away from productive activities and into the netherworld of souless entertainment.	2005-02-20
US	48486228	R2019CDP7VPCAE	1580421369	440664396	Doyle Brunson's Super System 2: A Course in Power Poker	Books	3	114	162	N	Y	Caveat Emptor.	I love Doyle Brunson, I love \\"Super System,\\" and I love poker, but I cannot figure out why he chose to make this book as scattered in focus as he did.  In 1978, it was easy to understand why a manual that covered numerous forms of poker would be released, but nowadays, all you see on TV (with a few WSOP exceptions) is Texas Hold 'Em.  So why did Doyle make a book that wastes the talent of Daniel Negreanu on \\"Triple Draw?\\"  I concede that the reader may be a far more in depth player than I am, but most of us play Hold'Em and little else.  \\"Seven-Card Stud High-Low-Eight-or Better\\" also seems rather pointless to me.  Who cares?  I was further deflated to see that he reprinted his life story and original No Limit advice in these pages.  I know all of that stuff from \\"Super System.\\"  If it's not new, don't waste our time.  The best parts of this book are Doyle on internet poker, the tips from Mike Caro, and Jennifer Harman's section on Limit Hold'Em.  These sections are why I give it three stars, but honestly, I looked forward to getting it and am dissatisfied with its quality.	2005-02-10
US	48486228	R1QJQ70SMQGUV4	0060958286	184878576	Art of Loving, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	6	13	N	N	The Art of Greatness.	The title for this book is very misleading as, in today's world, it conjures up images of Dr. Phil and Oprah.  In fact, Dr. Fromm wrote an outstanding work about what it means to live a passionate, engaged existence.  It's short and my copy is filled with two different kinds of ink from my circling at least 25 quotations over a couple of readings.<br /><br />In order to love, we must appreciate, and in order to appreciate, we must know.  A person without seriousness and focus is worthless.  We must work and make the most out of the time that we are given.<br /><br />As far as romantic love is concerned, Fromm was quite perceptive when he wrote that the lack of polarity between the sexes meant the death of love.  In order for men and women to have harmonious relationships, they cannot be exactly the same.  Without \\"viva la difference\\" there can be no eros.<br /><br />The first time I read The Art of Loving I did not fully comprehend the Marxist bend to Dr. Fromm's criticism.  Now I do unfortunately.  It is a distraction but it in no way undermine's the work's message.  He was a member of the Frankfort School and they supplied us with the evil cancer that is political correctness, so it is rather predictable that a critique of capitalism is included in these pages.  Fifty years have made these political asides and observations trite.  If man is a cog in the capitalist machine what would he be in a bureaucratic socialistic one?  Pol Pot, Stalin, Mao, and Castro teach us that under socialism man exists to be endlessly trampled by the heel of a boot (ala Orwell).<br /><br />Regardless of politics, Fromm understands better than most commentators what we should be doing with our lives on this earth and I respect this work immensely.  Fromm truly challenges the reader in the text and it is the thinking man's self-help guide.  And unlike all of the garbage on tv and in the bookstore, is actually helpful.	2005-01-15
US	48486228	R114XWFZKUV4AM	0684856794	293461229	The POLITICS OF BAD FAITH: The Radical Assault on America's Future	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Nobody Knows the Left Better.	This is an essential book for young conservatives.  It's slight, distilled and commanding.  David Horowitz may well be one of the most underrated writers of our time.  I find his prose to be excelsior.  His style renders a sober political analysis, like The Politics of Bad Faith, into a page turner.  This work is a collection of essays and they are all worth reading.  The Marxist roots of today's political correctness is fully investigated and the attempt to substitute the proletariat as the dogs of the world with race, class, and gender is well-developed.  Horowitz's essay on AIDS is entitled, \\"A Radical Holocaust\\" and it is inspiring.  One sees the ways in which the radical, revolutionary idea have sabotaged our public safety.  He also does a wonderful job explaining how today's liberals are anti-liberals and are the forces of censure and oppression rather than freedom and liberty.  I loved this book and heartily recommend it.	2005-01-10
US	48486228	RPEUQ7KRSI2BW	0306809273	714690505	The Labyrinth: Memoirs Of Walter Schellenberg, Hitler's Chief Of Counterintelligence	Books	4	10	14	N	N	A Historical Polaroid.	This is an amazing testimonial about life within the NAZI German rogue state. Schellenberg's confessional documents the attempts by one man to put together an intricate secret service on the behalf of his totalitarian benefactors.  His tales are rather bewildering and one is grateful that he had the time with which to memorialize his deeds in print before he died. Ultimately his organization became extensive but paled in comparison to that of the Soviets.<br /><br />Indeed, The Labyrinth also tells us much about the Soviet Union as their espionage links were so established that Schellenberg, in a country where he could randomly assasinate nearly anyone that he wished, was unable to completely disable the transmitters of the Rote Kapelle (Red Chapel).<br /><br />To me, the most valuable thing about the book is the historical primary source information it provides.  These prose portraits of Hitler, Himmler, Heydrich, Canaris, Ribbentropp and Kaltenbrunner are quite thorough and illuminating.  Schellenberg has many useful insights about human nature that he shares as well.<br /><br />The only reservation I had is that the narrator seems to be putting forth a sugar coated version of himself in its pages.  This appeared to me to be a final bit of misinformation before death.  His self-description is highly non-ideological and one feels as if they are being played while reading it.  He really portrays himself as a highly humane individual who is an outsider within this criminal regime.  His SS ranking of Brigadefueher belied such a conclusion.	2005-01-05
US	48486228	R31Q12JD6AH4JC	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One Moveable Gift.	This book is nothing short of stupendous. It's written straight as a collection of pastiches from when the author was one of the ex-patriates--due mostly to prohibition.  Paris was the Mecca of the literary artist.  For those of us stuck in vocations of repetition and bureaucracy, Hemingway's spontaneous, productive lifestyle in Paris will truly produce envy.  The cuisine and the company will turn you green.  Nothing will make you want a dozen oysters and a bottle of Sancere more.  When I first read it I believed that he had been cruel to Fitzgerald, but I must modify that view now.  It may be an accurate portrait of a man tied to a crazy spouse who constantly placed him under psychological siege.  Hemingway is very sensitive towards the French working man, and his prose, for the most part, is up to his usual quality.  I greatly enjoyed this book and recommend it as a grand vacation away from life's drudgery.	2004-12-22
US	48486228	R1LF94HFDGHJXU	086547236X	882621740	Between Meals: An Appetite for Paris	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	A Taste for Life.	I have to say first of all that I'm a sucker for all of the \\"Paris in the early part of the twentieth century\\" literature.  I love Celine and Miller, but my favorite was Hemingway's A Moveable Feast.  Well, Between Meals is no A Moveable Feast but it certainly is a high quality read that I can unquestionably recommend to you.<br /><br />Liebling, make no mistake, is a top notch writer and his sentence structure, use of metaphor, and style have much to offer aspiring wordsmiths.  He has an eye for the essential and this is particularly true if you're at all like me as far as food is concerned.  Liebling is a true gourmand and, even though I am completely unlearned and unappreciative in regards to fine dining, I still enjoyed his narration and memories of that splendid age.<br /><br />The best of these essays is \\"Passable\\" where he recalls his old girlfriend from his student years.  Liebling informs us that he does a poor job in reconstructing her but his description of their romance is quite compelling.  I loved that essay just as I did the one on Mirande.  This is a world long gone but we're fortunate that books like this are still in print.  Reading it will give you a snapshot of beauty that will hang like a Renoir in the corridors of your mind.	2004-12-21
US	48486228	R33485OLQF1VYY	0807043443	697049143	The Wimp Factor: Gender Gaps, Holy Wars, and the Politics of Anxious Masculinity	Books	1	28	185	N	Y	The Anti-Male Gimp Factor.	I happened to come across a book by Stephan J. Ducat called The Wimp Factor: Gender Gaps, Holy Wars, and the Politics of Anxious Masculinity.  I read the back cover, along with the chapter titles, and felt utter revulsion.  Yet, in the spirit of knowing one's enemies, I begrudgingly further enriched the wealthy psychoanalyst author by purchasing it for the purposes of review and refutation.  I lament to report that the quality of this work is quite poor.  To adapt a quote of Gertrude Stein's, \\"there's no there there.\\"<br /><br />The Wimp Factor offers nothing new and is a rank bouillabaisse of clich&eacute; and dogma.  It's stock is boiled from political correctness and within it swirl chunks of radical feminism, socialism, and anti-white racism.  It cannot be recommended as Ducat's positions are so stereotyped and unoriginal that they are entirely devoid of educational value.  On the very first page of his Preface, the narrator lets his readers know that his voice will be a polemical one as he describes a politician's need to be seen hunting as a way of letting the \\"male electorate\\" know that \\"he still likes to kill things.\\"<br /><br />Not only is the author a peddler of hackneyed emotion, he is also a very poor psychologist.  No insight on men is offered that could not be cut and pasted from the clipboards of Katha Pollitt or Barbara Enhrenreich.  Ducat is a jargon-enriched Michael Moore who is devoid of the filmmaker's creativity.  The analysis here is strictly Manichean.  Ducat views women, gays, people of color, and Democrats as being good while all white heterosexual males, and Republicans in general, are evil.  It's really quite tiresome. The only new thing presented is a vast expanse of psychological gobbledygook that is smeared upon everyone with a differing opinion.  The extensive morass of pseudo-intellectual constructs are land mines on the page and make this thin book seem the length of  War and Peace.<br /><br />In my opinion, this book should have been titled, \\"My Personal War on Men and Masculinity\\", as I have yet to encounter any work, outside of radical feminism, where men are held with such abominable contempt.  Ducat is an individual who seems to hate everything about his own gender.  We find that men, and our politician's need to appeal to them, is the causation behind most of America's problems.  The reader is often treated to strangely Dworkinesque rhetoric like \\"Politics for these authoritarian priests of patriarchy\\" and \\"while male privilege cannot be explained as simply an attempt to induce envy in women, it can often serve that function.\\"  His view of women is as inaccurate as it is cliched: \\"The new link between women's goodness and the issues of charity, education, and social reform led to an unprecedented gendering of political issues, and, correspondingly, to florid expressions of femiphobia.\\"  Women's goodness?  Are all women inherently good?  Of course not.  It seems that Ducat has never mixed with the general population. Some women are good and others are not.  That's always the case when one examines the personalities of a sample size that, in this world, exceeds three billion souls.  Assertions to the contrary illustrate how little leftists know about human behavior.<br /><br />This author refers to our culture as one \\"that disparages the feminine.\\"  Does it?  In my mind, far more evidence suggests that we celebrate the feminine.  Television is awash with talk shows dedicated to the processing of emotional issues that were once treated by stoicism alone, and independent cable channels are available which are dedicated specifically to the proclivities of a female audience.  Furthermore, it is common in daily conversation to hear phrases such as \\"a man expressing their feminine side\\" even though nothing I've ever read or seen suggests that such gender rotating halves exist.  What about the pink ribbon?  A crusade has been initiated to end breast cancer but no such grand social movement startedup to end prostate cancer-a disease which claims far more lives.  By this point in our new millennium, half of society actually believes inanities like \\"a women would never lie about rape.\\"  Yet would they believe that there is anything under the sun a man would not lie about?  Has Ducat not heard of affirmative action or the horrors of the Sexual Harassment Industry?  The only way that this author could realistically regard this nation as being biased in favor of men is if he had spent the last 365 days in a Bronx madrassah.<br /><br />The Wimp Factor provides political correctness with a new ism and phobia for its ever-increasing lexicon through its coining of the word, \\"femiphobia.\\"  This is something that Ducat diagnoses in all men who don't want to be women, act like them, and resent being called a sissy.  Contrarily, if a woman is perfectly happy being a woman and has no interest in being a man or compared to a man then she is [you guessed it] absolutely normal.  I suppose that if one already buys spurious concepts like \\"homophobia\\" then such additional notions like femiphobia are easily accepted.up to end prostate cancer-a disease which claims far more lives.  By this point in our new millennium, half of society actually believes inanities like \\"a women would never lie about rape.\\"  Yet would they believe that there is anything under the sun a man would not lie about?  Has Ducat not heard of affirmative action or the horrors of the Sexual Harassment Industry?  The only way that this author could realistically regard this nation as being biased in favor of men is if he had spent the last 365 days in a Bronx madrassah.<br /><br />The Wimp Factor provides political correctness with a new ism and phobia for its ever-increasing lexicon through its coining of the word, \\"femiphobia.\\"  This is something that Ducat diagnoses in all men who don't want to be women, act like them, and resent being called a sissy.  Contrarily, if a woman is perfectly happy being a woman and has no interest in being a man or compared to a man then she is [you guessed it] absolutely normal.  I suppose that if one already buys spurious concepts like \\"homophobia\\" then such additional notions like femiphobia are easily accepted.	2004-12-20
US	48486228	R180TS0TPO9E5S	1893554864	829421208	The Rape of the Masters: How Political Correctness Sabotages Art	Books	5	49	66	N	Y	The Defender of Our Faith.	In the area of Chicago in which I live there are at least ten art galleries within a square mile of my home, and the other day I had the unexpected opportunity to actually enter one of them.  What brought several of us to the open house was not a desire to examine art, imbibe free wine or socialize with the trendy poseurs by the door.  It was for the most Philistine of reasons; we were attracted to its name.  It was called the Verbeek, which also happens to be the last name of a former Detroit Red Wing whom a couple of us were particularly fond.  We walked inside and discovered numerous pieces of metallic sculpture in every corner.  One of them was particularly humorous as it was entitled, \\"the gender gap.\\"  It consisted of a steel rectangle and a steel triangle that were linked by a chain.  My friend asked, \\"What the hell could that mean?\\"  I answered, \\"Nothing good for our types I'm sure.\\"<br /><br />My friend's sentiment is exactly what many outsiders experience when encountering today's art.  Yet, such responses would be even more common if the average person were exposed to the opinions and theorizing that is inherent to art criticism.  Endless politicizing  appears to be as essential to the field as free passes to a museum.  The proper exposure of this Bedlam is one of the main goals of Roger Kimball's The Rape of the Masters: How Political Correctness Sabotages Art.  A few pages in, the reader discovers that, for many pseudo-scholars, art is merely an innocuous container into which  their political machinations can be poured.  Their criticism is merely an \\"index prohibitrum of political correctness.\\"<br /><br />Theory alone is transcendent.  The trendinista \\"write to traduce, not satirize.  More precisely, they poach upon the authority of art in order to pursue an entirely non-artistic agenda.  Their interest in art is ulterior, not aesthetic.\\"  A oily film of degradation has been applied to the characters and talent of men like Courbet, Rubens, Sargent, van Gogh, Gauguin, and whoever else with canvasses that clash with twenty-first century, anti-humanist thought. Their criticism includes all the usual mumbo-jumbo that students are oppressed by in universities across the country.  Ubiquitous is the constantly looping, hyper-verbal m&eacute;lange of anti-intellectualism which takes the form of radical feminism, anti-capitalism, and anti-western positions.  In this contrived arena, a person in not simply fair of skin but instead \\"the privileged male of the white race.\\"  In this respect, the above mentioned hockey player's nickname, \\"The Little Ball of Hate\\", is quite appropriate for the subject matter after all.<br /><br />Much of the gibberish these chapters outline will surprise even the most experienced detractors of political correctness.  Our professors' explanations are more disturbing than illuminating.  We find that Rubens, in his portrait Drunken Silenus, was not actually depicting a ribald scene from Greek mythology, but actually showcasing one of the world's first artistic representations of homosexual, interracial, anal rape [I'm not making it up].  We are also treated to malignant fantasy concerning a work like John Singer Sargent's The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit.  What looks to our naked eye a scene of familial contentment is really subtle documentation of women's low status within Victorian society.  These well-adjusted children are not well-adjusted at all; they are, instead, sexually charged symbols.  Kimball mocks both argument and language by pointing out: \\"Clearly, Professor Lubin is not the sort of chap you want to leave alone with an underaged circumflex.\\"<br /><br />Courbet's The Quarry is not what it seems either.  A dead deer hung up like a trophy amid a hunter and hounds might cause one to conclude that this painting concerns a hunting expedition. but that would be an incorrect interpretation.  You see, the roe deer's genitals, which are not depicted, are the real story and this indicates, to critics like Michael Fried, that the main purpose of the work is to elucidate Freud's theory of castration.  Along the lines of Dr. Freud, we must now ask, when can a pair of shoes simply be pair of shoes?  Ah, never, if you're Jacques Derrida.  He would rather endlessly play with Van Gogh's A Pair of Shoes for 130 pages in his The Truth in Painting than be so gauche as to admit that the subject in the work is obvious to everyone.<br /><br />If you find what is mentioned about to be absolute madness then you'll be very glad that Roger Kimball took the time to write this book.  The Rape of the Masters is something that will be appreciated by many a reader, and it's convenient plates of paintings in the center allow those who have never seen the works to follow along as Kimball attempts to welcome logic back into the pretentious confines of art criticism.  This work will appeal to anyone who witnessed the cultural revolution while frantically searching for a multi-generational \\"off\\" button.<br /><br />As an author, Kimball has always used common sense when wading through the obscurantist terrains of contemporary academia.  That's the best weapon to use when one is confronted with requests to adhere to multiculturalism, deconstructionism, post-modernism, and, perhaps most frightening of all, senseless careerism.  Kimball has the education and wit to stand up to these million-dollar-word terrorists by telling them that their positions are \\"unbridled intellectual masturbation.\\"<br /><br />This reviewer will now refrain from offering any trite puns based on the word \\"picture,\\" but, in many a university today, the discipline of art criticism seems to be every bit as contaminated by politics as the rest of the liberal arts departments.  With politics reigning supreme, one has to wonder what the good of obtaining a degree is when it amounts to little more than a skilled parroting of politically correct ideology.  It is hoped that, through books like this one, the general public fully realizes that sometimes a pose is only a pose.cates, to critics like Michael Fried, that the main purpose of the work is to elucidate Freud's theory of castration.  Along the lines of Dr. Freud, we must now ask, when can a pair of shoes simply be pair of shoes?  Ah, never, if you're Jacques Derrida.  He would rather endlessly play with Van Gogh's A Pair of Shoes for 130 pages in his The Truth in Painting than be so gauche as to admit that the subject in the work is obvious to everyone.   <br />  <br />If you find what is mentioned about to be absolute madness then you'll be very glad that Roger Kimball took the time to write this book.  The Rape of the Masters is something that will be appreciated by many a reader, and it's convenient plates of paintings in the center allow those who have never seen the works to follow along as Kimball attempts to welcome logic back into the pretentious confines of art criticism.  This work will appeal to anyone who witnessed the cultural revolution while frantically searching for a multi-generational \\"off\\" button.   <br /> <br />As an author, Kimball has always used common sense when wading through the obscurantist terrains of contemporary academia.  That's the best weapon to use when one is confronted with requests to adhere to multiculturalism, deconstructionism, post-modernism, and, perhaps most frightening of all, senseless careerism.  Kimball has the education and wit to stand up to these million-dollar-word terrorists by telling them that their positions are \\"unbridled intellectual masturbation.\\"   <br /> <br />This reviewer will now refrain from offering any trite puns based on the word \\"picture,\\" but, in many a university today, the discipline of art criticism seems to be every bit as contaminated by politics as the rest of the liberal arts departments.  With politics reigning supreme, one has to wonder what the good of obtaining a degree is when it amounts to little more than a skilled parroting of politically correct ideology.  It is hoped that, through books like this one, the general public fully realizes that sometimes a pose is only a pose.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-13
US	48486228	RPSU43RRHA2XU	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Timeless!	Perhaps the worst cliche about The Prince is that it is a work about political philosophy rather than being a masterpiece of psychology.  Not only did Niccolo Machiavelli understand the way in which rulers should rule their principalities; he also understood the mechanics of the human mind far better than many psychologists writing today. Machiavelli knew far more about people than those who persecuted him and condemned his positions ever did. He became synonomous with the Devil but I think there is little in this work which offends our modern sensibilities.  Another thing I rarely hear said about The Prince is that it offers the reader a large amount of history in its short 130 pages.  Much can be learned about Renaissance Italy and ancient Rome and Greece.  I particularly liked his summary of Severus myself. If you haven't read it before give it a try.  There's nothing as valuable out there for the price.	2004-12-07
US	48486228	R1II1B23PHRV9N	1893554309	643613111	The Long March: How the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s Changed America	Books	5	32	35	N	N	The Greatest Book I've Ever Read.	In my entire life, this is the only book that I've read three times.  Upon each perusal it becomes more endearing.  The Long March is the most powerful indict of the 1960s and the counterculture that has ever been written.  More than any other publication, it is capable of convincing moderates of the need to CONSERVE America and our western tradition as well.  Although, I am politically of the same bend as Mr. Kimball, I must admit that this book was not a simple sermon to the parishioners.  In my youth, I idolized the beat poets but only knew the true story of their lives after reading his second chapter.  The same is true of Marcuse, whose Eros and Civilization along with One-Dimensional Man I devoured and appreciated years ago.<br /><br />The Long March depicts the full story of the way in which our society was softened up by the likes of Brown, Reich, and Goodman to allow it to blossom into the permanent immaturity of the sixties.  An immaturity and a selfishness that still binds us.  The pseudo-compassionate hippies brought us multiculturalism and political correctness and currently are the cause of 18 year olds mortgaging their futures by borrowing fortunes in exchange for a Philistine's college education.<br /><br />As a cultural commentator, Kimball is resolute, spirited, witty, and as observant as an eagle peering down from Mount Rushmore.  This is, quite simply, the finest and most important work whose spine I ever cracked.	2004-12-04
US	48486228	R380BI2K6O13WR	1400053552	946602413	Intellectual Morons: How Ideology Makes Smart People Fall for Stupid Ideas	Books	4	34	56	N	Y	Helpful and Authoritative.	I really enjoyed this book just as I got quite a bit of pleasure from Flynn's last offering (Why the Left Hates America).  This is a tour of some amazingly famous people who, at their core, are ideologically unsound.  The sections are concise but highly informative and will serve the reader well in many a future political argument.<br /><br />We now have a movie out about the reprehensible and repugnant, Dr. Alfred Kinzie.  It will come as a shock to those who see the glossy work that he belonged more in a freak show than in the annals of science.  Flynn does well to single out the politically engaged (read=lying) works of Howard Zinn, Gore Vidal, and Noam Chomsky.  He does an admirable job in the handling of most of his subjects.  The chapter on Betty Friedan was particularly strong.  My only reservation is that, perhaps to make the book more marketable, he includes conservatives like Ayn Rand and Leo Strauss among his subjects.  With Rand, the abrasiveness (and arguably nuttiness) of her personality is tough to question but he really doesn't deal much with her ideas, and, with Strauss, I don't think he makes his case in the least.  He accuses many of those labeled neoconservatives of being his devotees but produces no proof that Mr. Strauss, or his philosophy, has anything to do with their current political stances.  Also, unlike Rand, one comes away from the chapter on Strauss with little indication that he was a moron in any way.  Other than these two reservations, I can honestly recommend this book as it entertains and educates which is about the most that one can ask from an author.	2004-12-04
US	48486228	R2YDM4SLIINXYN	0195071328	782616429	The Great Terror: A Reassessment	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Master Historian.	Let me begin by saying that Robert Conquest is an absolutely brilliant writer and scholar.  I'd classify him as being at the top of our era's historians; which would put him alongside men like Anthony Beevor and Paul Johnson.  I read this book about 10 years ago but studied it again this week. It is a concise account of one of the most horrific periods in the history of mankind.  Few books will have the unexpected outcome of making you so grateful to live in the present age.  Conquest is meticulous in his telling of the Yagoda/Yeshov/Beria schinas, and behind them all we find Stalin willfully exterminating his countrymen and consolidating his rule.  No book that I've read has given a more thorough or readable accounting.  I would give it 10 stars if I could. My only regret is that no photos were included. The rare photos offered in this year's \\"Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar\\" really accentuated the text.	2004-11-27
US	48486228	R1ZKCWR430YH2Q	189355497X	944466358	Anti Chomsky Reader	Books	5	40	72	N	Y	The Full Chomsky.	Question: How could a linguist working as a college professor have omniscient insight regarding the inner-workings of the American government and exclusive knowledge concerning the hidden motivations of every government official in our nation's history?<br /><br />Answer: There's no way he could.<br /><br />Yet, such common sense does little to refute the fact that Noam Chomsky is one of the ten most quoted figures in the humanities.  He has published screed after screed deconstructing American foreign policy positions and never has given any indication that his insinuations may somehow be limited by lack of connections or first hand evidence (or, in some cases, any evidence whatsoever).  Since the 1960s, he has fully played the role of  Wizard Professor and created an entire library's worth of \\"pseudo-academic smog\\".<br /><br />The Anti-Chomsky Reader is a compilation of essays outlining and refuting the travesties that the M.I.T. linguist has passed off as truth.  It does not confine itself to politics alone.  Substantial space is given to the analysis of his scholarly publications in linguistics.  These are addressed in two chapters called, \\"A Corrupted Linguistics\\" and \\"Chomsky, Language, World War II and Me.\\"  In the area of his chosen field, many have given him an intellectual pass but this work does not. His linguistic ideas may be as spurious as his political tomes.<br /><br />Chomsky's hopes for mankind are vested in murderous revolutionaries and not in his own nation.  It is our nation, and never the Khmer Rouge, which gives its citizens the freedom to vote, the freedom to trade, and, most obviously, the freedom to spread the type of sedition that Noam Chomsky has been disseminating for close to 40 years.<br /><br />Chomsky's self-proclaimed political orientation is preposterous.  He is enthralled with the socialist ideal but describes himself as a libertarian.  If this were true he would be the first libertarian in history who hated capitalism and the free market.  He also claims to be an anarchist but seems to love nothing more than strong governments which redistribute the wealth of its citizens and coerce its people into complying with the socialist ideal.  He is so deeply repulsed by our nation, and so entirely lacking in perspective, that he holds Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Truman to be war criminals but Pol Pot, who murdered 25 percent of all Cambodians, as creating \\"constructive achievements for much of the population.\\"<br /><br />What can one say about Chomsky?  As a scholar and shaper of young minds he is deplorable.  He is a Jew hating Jew who views the Israelis as Nazis and their behavior will result in \\"a final solution from which few will escape.\\"  His country has made him rich and famous although he discerns no good in the sea of prosperity around him.  His is a most disturbed, jealous, and depressed mind.  Chomsky has tied his life's disappointments to officials in Washington.  If the linguist would merely be content to hate himself rather than project his feelings upon the government, we would all be much better off.e market.  He also claims to be an anarchist but seems to love nothing more than strong governments which redistribute the wealth of its citizens and coerce its people into complying with the socialist ideal.  He is so deeply repulsed by our nation, and so entirely lacking in perspective, that he holds Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Truman to be war criminals but Pol Pot, who murdered 25 percent of all Cambodians, as creating \\"constructive achievements for much of the population.\\"<br /><br />What can one say about Chomsky?  As a scholar and shaper of young minds he is deplorable.  He is a Jew hating Jew who views the Israelis as Nazis and their behavior will result in \\"a final solution from which few will escape.\\"  His country has made him rich and famous although he discerns no good in the sea of prosperity around him.  His is a most disturbed, jealous, and depressed mind.  Chomsky has tied his life's disappointments to officials in Washington.  If the linguist would merely be content to hate himself rather than project his feelings upon the government, we would all be much better off.	2004-11-10
US	48486228	R3IENE9H970K3N	0553380621	30977168	Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers	Books	5	34	40	N	Y	Absolutely Delightful.	I can't believe it took me this long to get around to reading this book.  Here we see the rich and famous cavorting with violent anti-white, anti-American, and anti-Semitic criminals during the 1960s.  It's hard to say who these pampered masochistic high society types hated more; themselves or their own people.  Wolfe's recounting of Leonard Bernstein's \\"ode to the Panthers\\" party is outstanding.  It's great journatlism.  Heck, you know a situation is surreal when Barbara Walters is a voice of reason at a social gathering.<br /><br />As a writer, Wolfe, could not possibly have done a better job.  The narrator is everywhere but is not himself a character in the proceedings.  He may be a fly on the wall but he is a fly that takes copious notes.  The details are magnificent and he has a savant's eye for great quotations.  You'll laugh, you'll rage, the limousine liberals and champagne socialists will astound you.  The book was written over 30 years ago but it is just as applicable today as one could replace The Black Panthers with a nineties fellon like Mumia Abu Jamal.  The section on mau-mauing, or the fine art of the racial shakedown, is totally priceless.  It too is as applicable to the present as to the past.  Wolfe foreshadows the great future successes of Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson at coercing cash out of whites who willingly give it away to ease their politically correct minds.  A magnificent effort and, at 10 bucks, the price isn't bad--a pity that he didn't write another 200 pages.	2004-11-05
US	48486228	R1J1RGW7890A93	1890626554	871403050	The Supremacists: The Tyranny Of Judges And How To Stop It	Books	3	30	40	N	N	Our Robed Masters.	Well, this is the best time to review this book as it's now clear that, at least for the next four years, we will have fewer \\"supremacists\\", or judicial lawmakers, writing our laws rather than interpreting them.  Only through the courts has the left been able to succeed in pushing through its cultural agenda.  Schlafly reviews a suprising number of cases in this book to illustrate the way in which judges have been become more powerful forgers of government than the legistlators that we actually elect.  Her case is strong and the book is very readable; however, I would recommend waiting until the paperback comes out as the book is far too short to be worth full price.  It was a helpful primer though for those of us with only fading memories of Marbury v. Madison and ex parte McCardle.	2004-11-05
US	48486228	R3V729SDWMQ74W	0974150207	274499793	Internet Texas Hold'em: Winning Strategies from an Internet Pro	Books	3	10	19	N	N	Fine Organization but Overpriced.	Internet Texas Hold 'Em is one of the more meticulously put together books I've ever seen.  It is strong in organization and focus.  It gives chapter outlines, summaries, and test questions galore and the author indisputedly knows what he's talking about.  You may recognize his name from this year's WSOP Championship where he had his Aces snapped by Al Krux on ESPN.  Overall, this offering is educational even if rather dry and mechanical.<br /><br />I recommend this guide as I definitely learned some things, but I will say that you may be wise to buy something else first as the price is rather prohibitive.  [...]	2004-10-31
US	48486228	R1ZGTSGHMT67QS	159257257X	975098821	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Poker	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Easy to Read and Insightful.	First, let me say that I wholeheartedly recommend this book. The fact that it is inexpensive is an immediate bonus but also, Mr. Glazer, has strong writing skills and the pages are very accessible.  If you're not in the mood for concentrating you could even scan it, because, as is true with all of the \\"Idiot's Guide\\" series, \\"Poker\\" has little subgroupings that allow for quick digestion.  In this edition, they're little boxes called \\"the inside straight, table talk\\" and \\"perilous play.\\"  Each page is full of advice and tips.  It's a belly busting value play if you ask me.<br /><br />As far as particulars are concerned, Glazer exposes us to all of the intricacies of the poker omniculture.  There isn't a game, style, or concept that he doesn't devote words to.  What I personally found most useful were his discussions about the internet and tournaments.  He really does a great job explaining to the reader what exactly goes on in a tournament.  It's very hard to know if you're just watching ESPN or the Travel Channel as to what exactly is transpiring behind the scenes.  Previously the methodology behind tournament payouts was a mystery to me.  His section on player personalities was memorable as well.	2004-10-23
US	48486228	R1KC5ISPZEXAQD	0679760202	229524517	Thursday Night Poker: How to Understand, Enjoy and Win	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Real Value.	This is a very good book that is quite well written; however, since it is from 1996, it's rather dated.  The author, of course, does not make any mention of the internet which is the vehicle through which most of us play poker nowadays.  He also could not have foreseen the extraordinary success that amateurs have had against professionals which is why he stated that amateurs usually lose their money at the World Series of Poker.  In the last two years Greg Reimer and Chris Moneymaker thoroughly disproved such a notion.  Yet the author should not be blamed for historical eventualities he could not anticipate.  He has written a highly functional and readable guide for the weekly, or Thursday night, poker game.  It's ideal for beginners as his explanations of the game (and its many variations) are clear and concise.  His knowledge of strategy and tactics is notable.  A big plus at the end is the annotated bibliography which I read a couple of times.	2004-10-23
US	48486228	R21T6F632CACYV	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	4	29	47	N	N	The Coulterpalooza!	Ann Coulter's new release, How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter, is a thorough compendium of newspaper columns and magazine articles written by one of America's most famous politicos.  Within this Coulter-rama, no bigger enemies are found than Bill Clinton and Ted Kennedy. Their names are often mentioned, corrupted, and ridiculed with delight.<br /><br />The average reader, should they happen to be one of the ubiquitous \\"undecideds\\" so constantly discussed at this particular junction in the election cycle will have little use for the book as there are few diplomatic or bi-partisan sentences to be found.  Coulter's is a Manichean world: us vs. them, real men vs. Metrosexuals, good vs. evil, God vs. Satan, Couric vs. Schlafly, and Rush vs. the Clintons.<br /><br />Unfortunately, my admiration for Coulter's zeal and vivaciousness is not shared by all conservatives as some have a tendency to look down their reading glasses at her.  This reviewer grants that she's irritable, mean, emotional, and aggressive, but ultimately we should value her for the same qualities that Lincoln valued in Grant; \\"she fights.\\"  Pugnacious conservatives are hard to come by nowadays as too many of us lead hermetically sealed lives causing them to underestimate the toxicity of the left and how much they continue to degrade our nation.  Ann Coulter is worth any twenty tea and crumpet conservatives-who get along with their tormentors through the tactics of avoidance and non-engagement.  If you want to purge snakes from your garden you must get down in the weeds and hunt them.  Ann Coulter is one of the few conservatives who will.<br /><br />The last thing that should be addressed is the fashionable, yet absurd, claim that she is our \\"Michael Moore.\\"  She certainly is not.  Coulter is not a conspiracy theorist.  Yes, she is a habitual provocateur and one who is occasionally guilty of graphomanic pyrotechnics but she does not believe that wars are fought to obtain cheap oil or that the Saudis are dearer to our president than his own people.  Most of Coulter's arguments are correct and her central thesis, that liberals are not interested in defending this nation, is absolutely closer to the truth than conventional wisdom.<br /><br />Today's leftists are anything but liberal.  They have been duped into believing a trendy corruption of Marxist theory known as political correctness.  The left views our nation as the embodiment of racism, sexism, and oppression.  That much is obvious, but the real logical leap is that they would ever bother to defend our shores in the first place after holding such views.  This cognitive dissonance is why they voted to defund our military and intelligence agencies in the 1990s and why they are forever offended by the prospects of military action.  In the mind of the leftist, it's always 1984 and the real name for our country is Engsoc.  In all international situations, we are the ones with the black hats who bring terror down from the hills.  In their eyes, even alongside genocidal murderers, the United States is always the real den of iniquity and the root cause of every bit of evil uncovered.<br /><br />If we surrender to the anti-American left then we will lose all that is good about our country.  We seek to preserve while they seek to uproot and destroy.  To conserve America is to conserve civilization.  We have to work and labor if we wish our land to remain a nation of individuals and not a commune serving a bureaucratic apparatus.  We cannot expect anything to come from hiding out in hermetically sealed cages.  We must battle and Ann Coulter is one of our most brave and tenacious champions.  Read the book.  It won't teach you how to talk to a liberal but you'll learn how to clash with them which is an end in itself.fought to obtain cheap oil or that the Saudis are dearer to our president than his own people.  Most of Coulter's arguments are correct and her central thesis, that liberals are not interested in defending this nation, is absolutely closer to the truth than conventional wisdom.    <br /> <br />Today's leftists are anything but liberal.  They have been duped into believing a trendy corruption of Marxist theory known as political correctness.  The left views our nation as the embodiment of racism, sexism, and oppression.  That much is obvious, but the real logical leap is that they would ever bother to defend our shores in the first place after holding such views.  This cognitive dissonance is why they voted to defund our military and intelligence agencies in the 1990s and why they are forever offended by the prospects of military action.  In the mind of the leftist, it's always 1984 and the real name for our country is Engsoc.  In all international situations, we are the ones with the black hats who bring terror down from the hills.  In their eyes, even alongside genocidal murderers, the United States is always the real den of iniquity and the root cause of every bit of evil uncovered.   <br />  <br />If we surrender to the anti-American left then we will lose all that is good about our country.  We seek to preserve while they seek to uproot and destroy.  To conserve America is to conserve civilization.  We have to work and labor if we wish our land to remain a nation of individuals and not a commune serving a bureaucratic apparatus.  We cannot expect anything to come from hiding out in hermetically sealed cages.  We must battle and Ann Coulter is one of our most brave and tenacious champions.  Read the book.  It won't teach you how to talk to a liberal but you'll learn how to clash with them which is an end in itself.   <br />	2004-10-21
US	48486228	R2LEH077UFCJP0	0349115192	728343989	Big Deal: One Year as a Professional Poker Player	Books	4	6	12	N	Y	Clever and Fun.	Big Deal is a vivid, charming tour many famous poker venues and events around the world through the eyes of a full-time writer and wannabe pro.  Mr. Holden is quite skilled as a journalist.  Through his description, one really feels like they are there in Malta as rain causes the roof to crumble.  He has a strong eye for important and interesting details.  Many of his quotations are invaluable and the book flows like words from the mouth of Amarillo Slim.  The narrator has his own issues but one cannot help but be sympathetic towards him and cheer for his doomed attempts in becoming a poker legend.<br /><br />The book will completely appeal to dreamers on every continent who wish to avoid spending the rest of their days working for the man (or mam as the case often is nowadays).<br /><br />His trip to the psychologist and brief discussion of the psychology behind gambling was enlightening.  I learned from his \\"shrink's\\" perspective and welcomed the alternative hypothesis concerning what makes people gamble.  Saying it's simply masochism alone is in no way a universal explanation.<br /><br />As a narrator, Holden unfortunately introduces some politics into his text.  He exudes smug anti-Americanism in spades.  (Yawn...)  He appears to think the majority of us are uncouth and disinterested in the finer things of life although his friend Eric Drache obviously belies his stereotyped impressions.  He makes digs about Margaret Thatcher and embraces the foppish left-wing notions of many in the English elite but there is no substance behind his snarky comments.  Holden intentionally describes some hick at the table as predictably being a Republican.  Southerners are also a target and to think, just because a gambling event in Louisiana was cancelled, that nothing has changed in the south in 150 years time is absurd, flawd, and deeply prejudiced.<br /><br />He notes that many poker players are right wing, but why they are is the crucial angle he refuses to explore.  All poker players are capitalists by definition--whether they admit it or not.  Maximizing profit is why we sit at the table.  Those who play should be opposed to redistributionist schemes.  True social justice is about keeping what you've earned which is what poker is all about.  Oh well, such mindless political asides are not representative of the whole book but they are annoying enough to keep me from giving it five stars.  Otherwise, good show London Tony!plore.  All poker players are capitalists by definition--whether they admit it or not.  Maximizing profit is why we sit at the table.  Those who play should be opposed to redistributionist schemes.  True social justice is about keeping what you've earned which is what poker is all about.  Oh well, such mindless political asides are not representative of the whole book but they are annoying enough to keep me from giving it five stars.  Otherwise, good show London Tony!  <br />	2004-10-10
US	48486228	ROF43LIVKONX5	0811834344	205845992	The Biggest Game in Town	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Delicate and Hypnotic.	Quite simply, this is one of the best books I have ever read.  My only regret is that it was way too short.  Alvarez, simply put, is a great writer.  You will not be surprised by his background as a poet after opening it because he writes masterfully.  He has a poet's sense for distilled language no words are wasted and the quotations are carefully selected and sometimes astounding (like Binion's equating gambling with all that is American).  The organization and flow of the work is tremendous and his 188 pages turned like 40.  There's no way you'll put The Biggest Game in Town once you start it.<br /><br />No work better describes the \\"alligator blood\\" of the world's top notch professional poker players.  His portraits of Doyle Brunson, Johnny Moss, and Jack Strauss will be with you forever.<br /><br />The sheer aggression of Hold 'Em becomes quite obvious as does the way in which our sexual drives, and just about everything else, become sublimated in those who are addicted to gambling.  However, the allure of \\"action\\" is quite apparent and will make readers want to fly out to the World Series of Poker to experience the pagaentry for themselves.  This is a rare and valuable offering.	2004-10-06
US	48486228	RGP5DIHM8DQGE	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	4	28	36	N	Y	Moore's One Hell of a Sick Guy Indeed.	I was suprised at how much I enjoyed this book.  It's definitely a polemical work and not anywhere near dispassionate in tone.  Some conservatives have looked down on it because of its stridency but I think they're short-sighted to do so.  I think an irreverant, irritable response like this one is exactly what Michael Moore deserves.<br /><br />This book is a compilation of articles produced by the authors and various commentators (including even a writer from the Democratic Leadership Council).  It's a shooting gallery of attacks on the many lies in Moore's films and written works.  It's so easy to do you wonder how even the ultra biased New York Times can ethically get around doing the same thing.<br /><br />I heartily recommend this book.  Hey, I've had it with tea and crumpet conservatives, we need more guys like Hardy and Clarke. Bravo!	2004-09-29
US	48486228	RNT4LMFYG989M	1880685213	94226235	Sklansky Talks Blackjack	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Nothing New Here.	I admire David Sklansky very much and think that his attitude towards living the gambling life is b-lls out, but I do not think this book was worth the money I paid for it.  Contingent to winning, with Sklansky, is that you, as reader, have the ability to count cards.  Without it, you won't get any advantage over the house by reading Sklansky Talks Blackjack.  The book's organization and use of pictured cards is useful but the author's offering nothing new here that can't be obtained by knowing basic strategy.  Sadly, he provides no original or intellectual take on dealing with the 5 and 6 deck shoes that all of us-- outside of the gambling Meccas-- must deal with.  I wish that he had.	2004-09-25
US	48486228	RJNIG73A5PQ1G	1580421504	959729479	Beat Texas Hold'em	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent for Novices.	This book is what it is.  \\"Beat Texas Hold Em\\" is designed to give beginners a feel for the game and ideas for strategy and tactics.  It succeeds wonderfully.  Its price is very cheap which is something that cannot be said of many gambling books.  The narration style is very clear and concise.  There's nothing confusing in the least in its structure.  McEvoy provides advice on how to play common hands and also addresses internet poker in a separate chapter.  No, it won't say a great deal to the pros but for those of us initially grappling with the game it's well worth the price.	2004-09-21
US	48486228	R18UINUMY47FEB	0812966937	742340053	The Gambler (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Beauty Amid Ashes.	I loved this book.  I'm not sure that any book entitled \\"Gambling Psychology\\" would include a better profile of the psychopathology that is gambling addiction.  The main character's massochism is also a wonderful case study of how such personalities operate and function.  The plot is excellent and \\"granny\\" is so perfectly described that it's as if the author included a photograph of her.  Much of the Russian psyche is on display and the reader will get a glimpse into people and lifestyles that are quite in keeping with what one might find today in our own Roulettenberg, Las Vegas.  This was a concise but pleasant ride through human nature.	2004-09-12
US	48486228	R1XCEAHZK4IXGE	156663430X	667401134	Experiments Against Reality: The Fate of Culture in the Postmodern Age	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Yet More Brilliance from Kimball.	This is one of my favorite books and a person could hardly do better than to purchase the two for one Amazon deal that includes \\"The Long March.\\"  I thought of reviewing \\"Experiments...\\" today because upon reading the latest issue of The New Criterion (the journal Kimball edits) the author includes, in an essay concerning shame, a reference to Robert Musil.  This reference immediately reminded me of the superlative essay this book contains regarding Musil and his masterpiece, \\"The Man without Qualities.\\"<br /><br />\\"Experiments...\\" is highly similar to \\"Lives of the Mind\\" in its ecletic choice of subject matter.  Unlike \\"The Long March,\\" it is not uniformly guided by a single theme but this does not decrease its educational merit.<br /><br />I should also state that this is not a partisan book.  It's for intellectuals of all stripes but is particularly valuable to those who cherish our culture and western civilization.  Enjoy, I wish I could read these essays for the first time all over again.	2004-08-31
US	48486228	R1F1W05VL8PZTJ	081840633X	304381089	Gregorian Strategy For Multiple Deck Blackjack	Books	5	14	19	N	Y	Totally Worth the Investment.	This author has written a slim but valuable work on the most beatable of casino games.  His advice is not conventional but I agree with it after many punishing hands when I stood with 12s and 13s.  He's right as you should hit and hit them.  His strategy requires discipline but I really believe that it is viable, and is particularly necessary if you're like me and have a really tough time counting cards.  It's just not something I can pull off so his alterno-tactics are welcome.	2004-08-30
US	48486228	R3H52KKYGUCZVU	1552092364	46490851	The Woodlot Management Handbook: Making the Most of Your Wooded Property For Conservation, Income or Both	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Perfect for City Slickers.	I found this book to be an incredibly valuable asset in the managing of my newly acquired 10 acres of woods.  I had no previous experience and didn't read this text until I had owned it for several months.  Unfortunately, I had learned the hard way many of the common sense facts the authors share in these pages.  It is a well-written and well-documented work that is perfect for those of us who wish to conserve and preserve deciduous woodlands.  I have opened mine up as a guide and reference several times after finishing it.	2004-08-25
US	48486228	RMVOY12E8M5XZ	0876850867	561703515	Post Office	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Light and Enjoyable.	What a life!  This collection of vignettes, in novelized form, tells us much about the Post Office of the late fifties and sixties and also about Charles Bukowski.  The book is a raunchy page turner and an all around good time.  If you're like me and you'll never be an alcoholic or quit your job it's an unexpected pleasure to live your life vicariously through the narrator, Hank Chinaski.  Personally, I do not regard Bukowski as being a great poet or artist but the work's decadence cannot fail to entertain.	2004-08-20
US	48486228	RO578SEIA78RH	0374236488	961531135	Positively Fifth Street: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker	Books	3	33	37	N	N	Were it not for the narrator...	The author is sterling when he decides to discuss the Binion murder and its outcome.  He possesses a wonderful knowledge of poker and illuminates his readers considerably through the facts and history that he shares.  His success in the tournament is admirable and rather amazing.<br /><br />Unfortunately, he teases us with the Binion Las Vegas Confidential angle intermittently throughout the book.  Its 400 page length becomes excruciating as his need to discuss himself overpowers his desire to tell a tale.  In the end we get a bit of a muddle.<br /><br />Yet, overall, the book is definitely worth reading and informative even if McManus is one of the most self-indulgent writers I've ever encountered.  His constant personalizations (\\"Bad Jim\\"/\\"Good Jim\\") are pure torture.  He is not nearly as interesting as the coverage assignment he received from  Harpers.<br /><br />This is really an autobiography of a sensitive, New Age academic who appears to have completely bought into feminism, post-modernism, chic leftism, multiculturalism, and every other theory to come out of the narcissistic 1960s.  Had he merely given a journalistic account of the murder and the WSOP tournament in 200 pages I would have given him, in good faith, five stars for his effort, but his self-fascination degrades the product at every turn.<br /><br />Mr. McManus is a novelist and a writing instructor which is evident in his extensive vocabulary and occasional witty turn of phrase.  Yet he seems to use extraneous metaphor after extraneous metaphor in chapter after chapter.  Indeed, the thing that is most characteristic of \\"Positively Fifth Street\\" is its overwriting.  Is someone who takes 500 words to say what he could in 50 really a great writer?  I don't think so.	2004-08-20
US	48486228	RWHLMTQB8D4BU	0761525262	304809369	How Capitalism Saved America: The Untold History of Our Country, from the Pilgrims to the Present	Books	4	87	105	N	N	Excellent Reference Work.	What this reviewer appreciated most about this book is the way in which the author debunks popular myths. What is more intrinsic to being American than having the opportunity with which to better one's lot? Di Lorenzo illustrates that even the poorest of the poor continue to have the chance to rise through our capitalist system, and they frequently make use of this opportunity.<br /><br />Readers would be wise to remember the next time they are challenged with the mantra, \\"social justice,\\" to retort that the only way to achieve it is through, \\"capitalism.\\"<br /><br />Capitalism, through its cheaper goods and higher wages, has distinctly benefited the working class. A hundred years ago, the fattest of the fat cats could not purchase the same type of goods that your average retail worker can purchase today, and the fact that such unbelievable wares are available is strictly due to the incentives created by a capitalist system. In a socialist economy, they would never have been invented or discovered in the first place.<br /><br />We find as well that those dubbed \\"robber barons\\" were not as they enriched far more often than they robbed. Men like James J. Hill, Cornelius Vanderbilt, and John D. Rockefeller were brilliant entrepreneurs who employed thousands and gave stability to countless American families. The charitable organizations and nonprofits they bequeathed remain viable today and many of their innovations benefited all Americans-not just those they directly employed.<br /><br />This review would not be complete if it did not mention the non-partisan nature of How Capitalism Saved America. Di Lorenzo attacks all interventionists regardless of their political orientation. He excoriates the Republican Hoover Administration for its part in causing the Great Depression and then turns to examine the ways in which the Democratic Roosevelt Administration exacerbated the problems inherited from Hoover. The period appears to be an age where the temptations of state intrusion into the economy appealed to a majority of our legislators. The author views Roosevelt's New Deal as being merely a continuation, and logical outcome, of the policies enacted by the previous administration.f state intrusion into the economy appealed to a majority of our legislators. The author views Roosevelt's New Deal as being merely a continuation, and logical outcome, of the policies enacted by the previous administration.	2004-08-18
US	48486228	R3D56V4BA30LRZ	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Plot Unlike Any Other.	Everybody always mentions books that they read in a day.  This is one of the few books that I have succeeded reading in 24 hours time.  I found that I could not put it down.  The plot is sensational.  You admire the MIT students for their mathematical brilliance, but their lack of social skills is readily apparent in the way they keep tempting fate and risk getting whacked by private investigators or casino security.  My only issue with not rating it higher was that I found the narrative to be over-written.  There are way too many metaphors and adjectives in these pages.  There's no reason to write in such a fashion for a book like this, but the author was right to jump at the story as there are not many like it.	2004-08-09
US	48486228	R18HEQGLGDH8EI	0895267314	556131464	The Heterodoxy Handbook: How to Survive the PC Campus	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fighting PC Where You See It.	I had never heard of the magazine, Heterodoxy, when it was still operational, but now, in retrospect, I wish I would have subscribed to it. This is a collection of their best of and the essays are, for the most part, very cranial and introspective. I enjoyed almost all of them. The subsection, The Academic Zoo, excoriates radical feminism and the politicization of the fields of literary criticism and archaeology. We also see what political correctness has done to the navy, the methodist church, and the big gray enchilada, The New York Times. The writing is highly spirited and entertaining in my opinion. You'll enjoy it.	2004-07-29
US	48486228	R5L5QAO4DR6ON	1890626503	259447187	How to Beat the Democrats and Other Subversive Ideas	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Alas, if only the GOP would listen to him.	There is no room for RINOs (Republicans in Name Only) in our fight to win over the general population concerning the merits of conservative principles.  Horowitz's book documents the fact that rightward ideas are winning ideas and will resonate with voters across the nation.  This is a collection of essays, and, for the most part, they are brilliant.  Two chapters, The War Room and How to Beat the Democrats, should be very influential upon politicians and the average reader.  He preaches tactics and strategies that conservatives must hear and internalize.  Important points are that politics are emotional and they should always be about hope.  Republicans would be wise to learn from the words of this master.  Ten more Horowitz's and the country would be in a much better place.  He speaks his mind in beautiful prose and you'll turn these pages quickly.  This is a highly recommended choice, indeed.	2004-07-29
US	48486228	R2IMWWG8CB02ZD	0684826410	880804863	DESTRUCTIVE GENERATION: Second Thoughts About the '60s	Books	5	25	32	N	Y	The Real Sixties.	These essays are priceless and they tell a tale that many have never heard.  We are presented with the personal impacts of radicalism on human relationships and also on communities that sponsor it.  Progressivism and its sympathizers practically imploded the city of Berkeley and still exert a noxious influence upon that locality today.  The life of Fay Stender, a lawyer/groupie of the Black Panthers, teaches the reader just how much ideological blindness can bring a person down.  The Weatherman Underground is given its own (pathetic) chapter length treatment.  Believe me, you'll be horrified by the specifics of their pseudo-struggle and laugh when you discover that they viewed sex as being an ideological statement.  The anti-Americanism of the New Left has long been denied but Horowitz and Collier reveal much about them that has been hidden by the sixties.  If you're appalled by what the country's become, read this back and learn the causation of our cultural decline.	2004-07-29
US	48486228	R3BDV2A0E1FWQ0	1893554716	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy over Reparations for Slavery	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	Thank God for David Horowiz!	Who else would tackle this subject?  If you've ever found yourself under siege from people who advocate for reparations, you will be profoundly thankful that you have a copy of Uncivil Wars around.  Horowitz got people talking about this subject and, I believe, he has helped render this terribly unfair proposal unviable today.  The cogent point is that everybody, no matter who they are, should be grateful that they found their way to these shores.  The majority of black Americans are now middle class and making it in this country.  The last thing we need to do is practice reverse racism procedures like reparations.  A great quote from John McWhorter summed it up for me, as he said, lowering the bar never helped anyone.  Damn strait!  Blacks can, and are, making it in this wonderful country.	2004-07-29
US	48486228	RACCBKCIDB3W2	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	4	31	42	N	Y	A Catalogue of Iniquities.	The last days of the Clintons were an occasion for the country to witness just how corrupt this two for the price of one team actually was. They took furniture and gifts that were not their's for the taking, and appeared to be granting pardons on the basis of what law breakers held the most influence within their circle of friends and family. From arsenic to Mark Rich, the whole squalid tale is recounted by the superlative Barbara Olso, who sadly is no longer with us.	2004-07-27
US	48486228	R2VMEXBY659284	0806520027	327332350	The Dysfunctional President: Understanding the Compulsions of Bill Clinton	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Intriguing.	This was one of the first political books I ever read and I bought it mostly because it was written in the form of a psychological case study.  The author's diagnosis of Clinton's chief concern being that he is the adult child of an alcoholic may or may not be the cause behind his erratic professional and personal behavior.  To me, he appears to be more narcississtic than anything else (of course, a narcississtic personality is not mutually exclusive with having an alcoholic parent).  Seeing Clinton last night speak at the Democratic Party convention reminded me of just how much the public differs in its perceptions of this man and how much he continues to affect our lives.  I can honestly say that this book was informative and provocative and I recommend it to you.	2004-07-27
US	48486228	R1TP0SJABJ5HD6	0618257594	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Linguistic in Focus.	I have massive respect for Tom Shippey and his obvious knowledge and command of the English language.  There are few books that you'll read which will educate the layman as much as this one will.  For the Lord of the Rings fanatic, however, much of this book may not be what one expected as it points a laser into the mechanics of Tolkien linguistic universe present in LOTR, the Hobbitt and the Silmarillion.  The worm's eye view can't be beat but it is still a very detailed view.  The Foreward is an amazing read as it is more whollistic then the rest of the book and gives a thorough and illuminating overview of Tolkien's majestic place in the history of literature.	2004-07-25
US	48486228	RJKVPCNXPJXR1	1573226882	326942117	Fever Pitch	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Impeccible!	Nick Hornby tells his life story through Fever Pitch, but the emotions and struggles he describes will undoubtedly resonate with many a male reader. We learn all we need to know about English soccer, the Premier League, the Arsenal Football Club, and, most of all, Nick Hornby, in its pages. The narration is filled with charm and I believe this work is far superior to everything that he wrote afterwards (even though I loved &quot;High Fidelity&quot; and liked &quot;About a Boy&quot;). His subtitles are hilarious (Wembley II: The Nightmare Continues) and his vignettes are riveting. The author's coherent weaving of sport into the larger tapestry of life is something that only a very abstract mind could have accomplished. I sometimes get out the section on the Arsenal footballer, Gus Ceasar, and read it aloud to whoever will listen as it sums up the fact that outside of athletic competition, few incompetent individuals are ever discovered or found out. I loved this book.	2004-07-25
US	48486228	RRON5MDWJNBMO	0895261979	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Real Hillary.	And it's not pretty, but we already knew that.  Barbara Olson wrote a top flight biography with \\"Hell to Pay.\\"  I, for one, definitely miss her presence in the field of non-fiction and am sorry she is no longer with us.  Many people may not realize that R. Emmett Tyrrell's book, \\"Madame Hillary,\\" was heavily influenced by this work.  Olson exposes the hidden, radical nature of Hillary's worldview.  Her thought is far closer to Saul Alinsky than John Jay or Thomas Paine.  In the wake of the 2000 election recount, when she came out against the electoral college, who could doubt that she cares little about the institutions or traditions that embody this country.  She hides her radicalism behind a bourgeois veneer but Olson allows her true traits to become visible through \\"Hell to Pay.\\"	2004-07-18
US	48486228	R3F2VT4XNTLABH	0812970411	218999601	The American Revolution: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	A Spirited Overview.	This is a perfect book for those of us who have forgotten many of the specifics concerning the way in which America obtained its freedom.  Wood offers a concise summary of the main revolutionary events and also discusses the factors which proceeded rebellion.  This is not a book for historians but is an excellent introduction to the era.  Oftentimes we forget about the neoclassicism of the age and the way in which Rome and Greece influenced the political outlooks of the men who forged our republic. Wood's examination of equality and the philosophical influences that embody our state are quite enlightening.  I wish that this text were used in the schools as it would undeniably foster a high level of appreciation for just how unique the American form of government actually is.	2004-07-18
US	48486228	R2NXB93X7CFI2S	0060096616	315049590	The Worm in the Apple: How the Teacher Unions Are Destroying American Education	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A Solid and Grim Case.	This is not a cheerful or optimistic book, but it is one that absolutely had to be written.  I am personally familiar with Peter Brimelow although it took me awhile to getting around to purchasing this particular work.  I just recently read it and have to recommend it due to its thoroughness and its exposure of the teacher unions' true nature.  Two reviews in Education Next derided the text for its derisive and condescending tone.  Certainly there are sentences that one can easily find which are overwrought, but overall, Brimelow's tone is dispassionate and informative.  When one considers that each year the taxpayer throws more and more money into education in America (over 750 billion this year alone), and that so much of this lucre finds its way into the teacher unions, it is easy to see that Worm in the Apple is a valuable addition to the public square.  Indeed, it is an absolute necessity.	2004-07-17
US	48486228	R39PN4NI8JQBST	1893554724	564301385	In Denial: Historians, Communism, and Espionage	Books	5	27	38	N	Y	The Truth--Finally!	Haynes and Klehr tell a story that few acknowledge and it concerns the fetish that many of our professiorial anti-elite have towards the Soviet Union.  These academics lie and minimize, and follow it up with indoctrinating those youth who are unfortunate enough to take their classes at the university.  They recognize that a solid study of communism and the USSR would result students being eternally grateful that they live in the west as opposed to elsewhere.  This may be precisely the reason that radicals distort and relativize objective history.  Kudos to Klehr and Haynes for producing this valuable work.  Incidentally, some of you may recognize a section that is quite familiar concerning the way the left manufacted the phrase \\"Premature Antifacists.\\" It was supposedly stamped on the army files of those who served in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade in Spain after they then enlisted in the American army during WW II.  It's a nice tale but that's exactly what it is.  This ruse was merely a way to demean our military. The chapter originally appeared in a 2002 article in The New Criterion and it is an engaging page turner. In Denial is worth every penny.	2004-07-14
US	48486228	R1ADU0CK29HXPQ	1566633842	435428161	Modern Sex: Liberation and Its Discontents	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Vastly Underrated.	The title looks racy, people give me odd looks when they see it on my shelf, but no work on the market better refutes the endless sexualization of America than \\"Modern Sex.\\"  We really shouldn't be surprised though.  This book is a selection of the best of City Journal (which I recommend as a publication if you haven't read it before).  Harry Stein's article on feminism is remarkable as are those of Roger Scruton-but practically everything that comes from his keyboard is top shelf.  The authors of this book can, and do, stare down the sexual revolution.  It's a must buy.	2004-07-12
US	48486228	R3EJ7D0FCDKCY2	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	3	32	55	N	N	Educational but a Disappointment.	It is quite surprising that a book about grammar would become a runaway bestseller in America today, particularly as there are fewer people reading than ever before, but Lynn Truss's Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation has defied all expectations for the genre.<br />The author is a successful British journalist who decided to pen a book about punctuation as it happens to be one of her greatest passions.  She dedicated it to \\"sticklers\\" everywhere and urged them to unite as the only thing they had to lose was their \\"sense of proportion.\\"  Truss is a perfectionist who dreams of stickler brigades running through the streets and whiting-out misused apostrophes or adding missing question marks to sentences upon advertisements.<br />There is much that is right about this book.  Entire chapters are devoted to individual forms of punctuation.  Over 130 pages of the text concern apostrophes, commas, colons, semicolons, dashes, question marks, and exclamation marks.  Her work is strong when she is discussing the specifics of grammatical usage.  Considerable historical background on language is shared and most of it is quite fascinating.  We learn of a controversy created by a deathbed bound Graham Greene adding a comma to a document, and also the situation of Sir Roger Casement whose legal defense hinged on a bizarre grammatical interpretation of the Treason Act of 1351.  In the end, Casement was \\"hanged on a comma.\\"<br />Eats, Shoots & Leaves can be very educational for those who have difficulty remembering the essentials of grammar.  Many will welcome instruction regarding terms like stet, interrobang, and the \\"yob's comma.\\"<br />Unfortunately, this reviewer cannot recommend the book as its parts are infinitely greater than its whole.  Truss's illuminations are handicapped by her narrative voice.  At first, her cheeky and hyper-adrenaline style charm the reader, but by page 50 one longs for a voice that is content to merely inform as opposed to one that seeks to entertain.  The  incessant asides are tiresome and a source of distraction.  Here is an excellent example:<br />\\"Look at that sentence fly.  Amazing.  The way it stays up like that.  Would anyone mind if I ate the last sandwich?\\"<br />In the sentence below the narrator manages not only to disrupt but to disturb as well:<br />\\"That man was Aldus Manutius the Elder (1450-1515) and I will happily admit I hadn't heard of him until about a year ago, but am now absolutely kicking myself that I never volunteered to have his babies.\\"<br />There is also an irritability about Ms. Truss that cannot be denied.  In the following passage, she shares her views regarding someone with whom she once had a transatlantic correspondence,<br />\\"In hindsight I see it was unrealistic to expect a pen-pal from the 8th grade in Detroit to write like Samuel Johnson.  But on the other hand, what earthly use to me was this vapid mousey moron parading a pigmentational handicap?\\"<br />Then there is the matter of Truss's relentless personalization of punctuation marks which will strike anyone as being odd.  She loves them and we never hear the end of it.  It makes one wonder if the author is attempting to over-compensate for a disdain of humanity by swooning lustily for apostrophes and semi-colons.  This excessive enthusiasm for punctuation affects the palate like four packets of saccharin in a small cup of coffee.<br />Yet another defect is that there has been no Americanization of the book.  Her rules and procedures often are inappropriate for those who live outside of Britain.  A three page discussion of how and where to use quotation marks disappointingly ends with, \\"[u]nless, of course, you are in America.\\"  Given the amount of sales in England, there is little excuse as to why the publisher didn't alter selected passages to meet the needs of those of us in the colonies.<br />This reviewer certainly cannot deny that Eats, Shoots & Leaves has some value for neophytes, but there are numerous works on the mechanics of writing, such as L. Sue Baugh's Essentials of English Grammar, that are more informative and less expensive.us works on the mechanics of writing, such as L. Sue Baugh's Essentials of English Grammar, that are more informative and less expensive.	2004-07-11
US	48486228	R3AQTK1NIR9PB2	1400052599	172992935	Betrayal: How Union Bosses Shake Down Their Members and Corrupt American Politics	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Informative but Not Dynamic.	I liked this book.  It yielded a great deal of insight as to the functioning of unions.  The subchapter on the teacher unions was my personal favorite, but its tone is partisan and it undoubtedly won't appeal to liberals or their fellow travellers.  The prose is merely average but it does give helpful background on the ways in which the unions have influenced our political process-and not for the better.	2004-07-11
US	48486228	REHA3K8LG1EDU	1574882864	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier	Books	5	225	234	N	N	Poignant and Powerful.	This is simply one of the most memorable and important books that I've ever encountered.  I first read it in 1994 and it remains as vivid in my mind today as it did on the day ten years ago that I finished it.  I have heard questions regarding its historical accuracy but can only say that his account of the nature of war can be supported by other German memoirs of the Eastern Front such as \\"The Black March.\\"  Was the  GrossDeutschland Division in all the places that he claimed?  Perhaps not, but I will say that, as the Eastern Front disintegrated, it was far from unusual for scratch companies to be formed regardless of where the units derived.  Either way, it's a magnificent read.  His desription of the Hitler Jugend before the battle of Belgorod is absolutely priceless with their banners reading \\"The World Belongs to Us.\\"  In chapter four, his romance with the Berlin girl Paula happens to be one of the most engaging and believable relationships I've ever run across in print.  I've read it aloud to high school students and they loved it.  The book should appeal to anybody who has experienced passion.	2004-07-02
US	48486228	R3A7QNAS65L0HL	1929631030	540429161	In Stalin's Secret Service: Memoirs of the First Soviet Master Spy to Defect	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Required Reading for Communist Deniers.	If I could I'd see every person who laments &quot;US Triumphalism&quot; regarding The Cold War be forced to read Krivitsky's memoir of his years in the GRU (Soviet Military Intelligence).  Those who believe that America was too worried about communism in the thirties and forties would be wise to examine &quot;In Stalin's Secret Service&quot; for they'll discover that our intelligence bureaus were clueless as to the threat around us. They denied that there even was such a thing as Krivitsky's position in USSR.  Krivitsky used to see NKVD agents walking around New York City and our authorities were none the wiser.  Once you're finished with this tale, you'll have new sympathy for Whittaker Chambers who said after he left the communists that he &quot;had exchanged being on the winning side for being on the losing side.&quot;  With as rife as we were with communist spies in the middle part of the twentieth century, its a miracle that we won any wars.  As a bonus, the spy stories are first rate.	2004-07-02
US	48486228	R3LWGDVIUMRN3A	1854794884	331085814	The Most Evil Men and Women in History	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Excellent Resource Book.	I picked this up on deep discount but I think that it's worth full-price.  It consists of 16 different essays on some of the most vile individuals to walk this earth.  It is far from perfect and Mao is suspiciously absent as he is indisputably in the top five on everyone's Monster List.  However, the book is quite helpful for research purposes as I made use of the chapters on Caligula and Nero just the other day.  It's not a pretty picture but it's one that must be studied or in the words of Santayana, those who forget the past are condemned to relive it.	2004-07-02
US	48486228	R3M1YURQ8X7PTX	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Flows like a Dream.	This is great history.  I could not put it down but I gave it four stars because I did not feel it was in the same class as Simon Sebag Montefiore's &quot;Stalin: In the Court of the Red Tsar.&quot;  Radzinsky in no way compiles the same type of comprehensive narrative as does Montefiore but it is very much worth your time.  The archival evidence he uses is excellent and this is particularly true for someone who went to school (as I did) before the fall of communism.  His best nugget involved Mikhail Bulgakov accidentally hanging up the phone on Stalin who assumed that he was the recipient of an April's Fool joke (p.262).  Stalin, the sphinx, actually got Bulgakov a job at the Moscow Arts Theatre.  The inconsistencies of the General Secretary's personality are clearly displayed by the author in this 1996 effort.	2004-07-02
US	48486228	R1JBYVUOZRF2ED	0395825172	956346567	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Love this Edition.	American Heritage is my favorite dictionary and I finally set my old one out to pasture and bought this edition four months ago.  I have not been disappointed in the least.  It's thorough with a very clear type set and readable fonts.  I don't know about you, but microscopic print is useless to me regardless of the text.  I'd never use the magnifying lens that comes with the OED.  American Heritage is inexpensive and quite helpful so that's why I recommend it.	2004-06-26
US	48486228	R2SSG7MDXOS65O	0847689875	577493763	Heterophobia: Sexual Harassment and the Future of Feminism (American Intellectual Culture)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Brave and Heroic.	This one is an all-time favorite.  It depicts the heterophobic feministas at their height of their game--terrorizing all men who happen to be in an non-submissive state.  Patai investigates the \\"Sexual Harassment Industry\\" and the way in which men are trampled under the gnarly sawteeth of radical feminism.  The story of Professor Jane Gallop is one you'll never forget along with her outrage at being charged with sexually soliciting favors from undergraduates.  She actually said, I thought this stuff only applied to men.  No, it's supposed to apply to her as well, in theory at least.  I'm sometimes asked what my favorite anti-radical feminist work is and Heterophobia would definitely be one at the top of the list.	2004-06-22
US	48486228	R1DR35C8QZH53D	046500802X	773488704	The Evolution Of Desire: Strategies of Human Mating	Books	5	4	9	N	Y	The Immaculate Truth.	Through his analysis of 37 cultures across all economic and geographic boundaries, Dr. David Buss has produced a masterpiece that provides extensive rationale for why we as humans act as we do.  Buss uses reams of research (and also, obviously his own) to showcase what men want from women and what women want from men.  They are certainly not the same thing, and the denial of this actuality has caused considerable friction between the sexes.  I've found that when most people are exposed to the arguments of evolutionary psychology they immediately recognize it...as the truth.  Read away, you'll never deny anything again.	2004-06-16
US	48486228	R1NANPBWQTTUQC	0140249850	436220225	Stalingrad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	World Class History.	I first read this book during the summer of 1999 and had never heard of the author beforehand.  I took to him immediately and experienced considerable difficulty putting Stalingrad down.  I usually read three or four books at a time but could not with Stalingrad as it became my sole concern until it was finished.  Beevor makes use of outstanding primary source materials and his narrative technique makes one feel as if you have secret access to the innermost recesses of the minds of Chuikov, Paulus, Zhukov, von Manstein, and, of course, Hitler and Stalin.  It reminded me of the old PBS documentary,<br />\\"Battleground\\" for the way in which it flowed.  Buy it,I guarantee you won't regret it.	2004-06-12
US	48486228	R6O90KWRK89O2	0142002801	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Even Better than Stalingrad.	It's one ugly story indeed but it is one which must be told.  January of 1945 brought a firestorm of mythic proportions onto the German Reich and effectively turned the dreams of Hitler inside out as Germany, at least half of it, became the vassal state of Russia.  Anthony Beevor, in my opinion, is the strongest historian writing today.  He colors this narrative with geographical fact, poignant memories, and a steady, consistent pace.  I was so impressed with him after Stalingrad that I bought a signed edition of The Fall of Berlin for a few bucks more.  I notice that it's available along with Stalingrad for 23 bucks, and, if you're not familiar with any of his work, it'll be the best 23 bucks you'll ever spend to buy them both.	2004-06-12
US	48486228	RDQFLWOLAFD3I	0679600116	705442339	Ulysses (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Creative Genius Unbound.	We're approaching the 100th anniversary of the action in Ulysses and I've taken my copy out and began to reread it.  No other book I know of has more power to inspire or instill creative thought.  His symbolism and skill is simply astounding.  Anthony Burgess once said that many times he'd think of Ulysses and then think about his own work, &quot;Why bother?&quot;  I know what he meant, but the power of the characters and style gives everday writers like myself something to strive for.  This book is worth more than ten creative writing courses in the Ivy League.  Even if I wanted to, I could never forget it.	2004-06-09
US	48486228	R3KLR0Y4YI0YVR	0446529761	557825357	Politicians, Partisans, and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Caught in the Crossfire.	In Politicians, Partisans, and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News the author provides a pleasurable read even if imparting little in the way of political wisdom.<br />Carlson's narration spares few details and one has the feeling that his publishers were pleasantly surprised with the richness of his account.  His onscreen adventures began, improbably enough, with the OJ trial in 1995.  It seems that the offices of The Weekly Standard were called by Dan Rather's booker in the hopes of finding a reporter to provide a conservative take on the trial, and Carlson, as he was the first one back from lunch, accepted the invitation.<br />A few years and many appearances later, our author was transformed from a chain-smoking journo to a smoke-free, media celebrity.  He even got falsely accused of rape by a stalker fan (which says all one needs to know about his renown).  Carlson briefly had his own show with Bill Press called Spin Room and currently he is one of the hosts on Crossfire.<br />Before relaying more specifics about the book, let me state, as a disclaimer, that I am personally not a fan of this author.  Previously, I've always anticipated his views on politics with the same interest that I have in glasses of room temperature skim milk.<br />Carlson himself cites the concerns that Congressman Tom Delay had about his representing the conservative side before the nation.  He believed Carlson \\"too liberal to represent the Right on the air.\\"  Frankly, I agreed with the Congressman before reading a page of the memoir and, after finishing it, I still agree with him.  CNN needs guys like Carlson to be rightists in name, as the rest of us would not let Bill Press or Paul Begala dominate us with their informercials.<br />The author has warm affection for the likes of James Carville and Bill Press.  He also seems to lament Senator McCain's loss to President Bush in the 2000 Republican primary, which is rather disturbing as McCain's goal, in regards to the Republican Party, was that we should \\"burn it down.\\"<br />It may well be worth buying the book just to read about the catty way in which Carlson deals with Barney Frank after the Congressman berated a producer who tried to adjust his blazer (the horror!): \\"I made a mental note to devote the rest of my life to subverting Frank's career.\\"  He does a noble job.<br />This is by no means a philosophical work, but it was a great deal of fun to read.  As many liberal comedians have painfully illustrated in the past, you do not have to be on the exact same ideological page as your audience in order to entertain. Tucker Carlson was on a mission to lightly and gleefully depict some of the strange politicians, partisans, and parasites that he has known on from cable news and he has succeeded admirably.  Now if he could just lose that bowtie.  Anyway, if you're short a present or two, you might consider his memoir for just about anyone who likes to laugh.was that we should \\"burn it down.\\"<BR>It may well be worth buying the book just to read about the catty way in which Carlson deals with Barney Frank after the Congressman berated a producer who tried to adjust his blazer (the horror!): \\"I made a mental note to devote the rest of my life to subverting Frank's career.\\"  He does a noble job.  <BR>This is by no means a philosophical work, but it was a great deal of fun to read.  As many liberal comedians have painfully illustrated in the past, you do not have to be on the exact same ideological page as your audience in order to entertain. Tucker Carlson was on a mission to lightly and gleefully depict some of the strange politicians, partisans, and parasites that he has known on from cable news and he has succeeded admirably.  Now if he could just lose that bowtie.  Anyway, if you're short a present or two, you might consider his memoir for just about anyone who likes to laugh.	2004-06-09
US	48486228	R2Q2TZBH6SLSVX	1893554457	439951201	Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism	Books	5	15	19	N	Y	I wish everyone would read this.	The errors of the communal impulse are meticulously documented in Joshua Muravchik's sensational Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism.  I have seldom encountered a book that is such a perfect balance of entertainment and education as is Muravchik's.  In a world where one can pay $25 for 200 pages of utter tripe, Heaven on Earth stands as a bargain and an ideal.  It entertains as much as it educates.  His compendium of the mayhem of that is socialism is also a testament to the necessity for historical analysis.  He is similar to Anthony Beevor in the way his prose and style can create interest in a topic that one never wanted to study before.<br />The author of this work made a clever decision, and it was to focus on many of the lesser known members of the cult of socialism.  Less publicized figures like Gracchus Babeuf, Robert Owen, and Julius Nyerere are given chapter long treatments.  Clement Atlee, Samuel Gompers, George Meany, and the Israeli kibbutzim are discussed in order to flesh out the overall picture of the political actualities behind the success or lack of success of the socialist movement.  It makes for a surprisingly suspenseful read, as many of the facts, stories, and quotations contained it the book the reader may never have gazed upon before.<br />The men who founded the movement known as socialism can best be described by a quote meant for Robert Owen which was, \\"He became a humanitarian, and lost his humanity.\\"  No better sentence can sum up the socialist mind and their 150 years of ruthless social engineering.  Pass a cemetery and think of their legacy to the world.  It is unfortunate that their bankrupt ideology remains politically viable in many locales today.  Upon reading Heaven on Earth, the reader will realize that you can no more build a socialism which works than you can create a human being who will live forever.	2004-06-05
US	48486228	R1L68SG5VBTLRW	0375414827	998457405	The Language Police:  How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Valuable and True.	The desire of textbook makers and assessment companies to never challenge a student's preexisting sensibilities is very much the reason that Diane Ravitch wrote her new book, The Language Police: How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn.<br />Dr. Ravitch is a former member of the first Bush administration's Department of Education.  She is currently a professor at New York University .  Despite her past political affiliations, I'd like to firmly state that this is not a \\"conservative\\" book.  The author painstakingly documented that censorship, or pressure, upon textbook manufacturers comes from both the right and the left.  Indeed, she has separate chapters devoted to analyzing censorship from both sides of the political spectrum.  This book is not in any way a polemic.  It is instead a professional, objective account of what has happened to the educational resources industry within the United States .<br />This is a fine work of scholarship, as Dr. Ravitch relies on primary source materials as a means of bolstering her conclusions about the current milquetoast world of instructional decision making.  She personally examines the textbooks, diagnostic devices, and publishing house guidelines of the companies she investigates.  The results will be particularly disturbing to the layman who has little knowledge of the workings of educrats and educationese.<br />I recommend this work to the reader, as it is a fountain of rare and useful information, but I would like to mention that, at least to this reviewer, it was far from a page turner.  It principally deals with dry subject matter.  In fact, you might say that it is the vocation of publishing and assessment companies to be as bland in their creation of products as is humanly possible.<br />The truly \\"laugh out loud\\" portion of The Language Police can be found in her \\"Glossary of Banned Words.\\"  I recommend reading this first as you'll have conversation for the rest of the week.  None of the words that you'd think would be in there are present (they must be too obvious).  We see that \\"abnormal\\" is verboten due to it demeaning those with disabilities.  This would seem to negate a semester long graduate course I once took called \\"Abnormal Psychology.\\"  I should not be surprised if the class is now called \\"Variations of Normal Psychology.\\"  Alas, I spoke too soon, as \\"normal,\\" the antonym of abnormal, has been banned as well.  Further, you now cannot use the term \\"American\\" to describe citizens of the United States (I'm not kidding), as it discriminates against those from Canada and Mexico who are also part of the greater \\"American\\" landmass.  More moronically, you can't put into print the words \\"beast, fanatic, fat, jungle, lunatic, maid, special, strange, yacht\\" and \\"costume\\" as some bureaucrat behind an AV machine must quiver at their pronunciation as well.<br />The dear educational publishers and their word enemy list offer an answer to the eternal question of whether one is a man or mouse.  It has now been decisively answered that they are the latter, as the merchandisers appear to be sincerely frightened of rodents in general.  Dr. Ravitch elaborates, \\"It is hard to imagine that a fourth-grade student would be paralyzed by dread by reading a story that included descriptions of mice.  Clearly forbidden by such a prohibition is any excerpt from books like E.B. White's Stuart Little or Robert Lawson's Ben and Me.\\"you'd think would be in there are present (they must be too obvious).  We see that \\"abnormal\\" is verboten due to it demeaning those with disabilities.  This would seem to negate a semester long graduate course I once took called \\"Abnormal Psychology.\\"  I should not be surprised if the class is now called \\"Variations of Normal Psychology.\\"  Alas, I spoke too soon, as \\"normal,\\" the antonym of abnormal, has been banned as well.  Further, you now cannot use the term \\"American\\" to describe citizens of the United States (I'm not kidding), as it discriminates against those from Canada and Mexico who are also part of the greater \\"American\\" landmass.  More moronically, you can't put into print the words \\"beast, fanatic, fat, jungle, lunatic, maid, special, strange, yacht\\" and \\"costume\\" as some bureaucrat behind an AV machine must quiver at their pronunciation as well.    <BR>The dear educational publishers and their word enemy list offer an answer to the eternal question of whether one is a man or mouse.  It has now been decisively answered that they are the latter, as the merchandisers appear to be sincerely frightened of rodents in general.  Dr. Ravitch elaborates, \\"It is hard to imagine that a fourth-grade student would be paralyzed by dread by reading a story that included descriptions of mice.  Clearly forbidden by such a prohibition is any excerpt from books like E.B. White's Stuart Little or Robert Lawson's Ben and Me.\\"	2004-06-05
US	48486228	R13YE7FVVQ7HNJ	0679640509	459507287	Communism: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Concise and Brilliant.	Oscar Wilde said that the cigarette was the perfect type of pleasure, as it was exquisite but left one unsatisfied.  The same can be said regarding Richard Pipes' Communism: A History.  It is a concise work, and its 160 pages of narrative are perfect for those under time constraints, but when you're done, you'll wish there was another section hidden behind the index.  To corrupt the words of Stalin, this book is an essential and short course on communism, which, in hindsight, can be defined as the desire of a government to destroy its own people.<br />Pipes had an ambitious task before him when he classified so much history into so little space, but the end product is first rate.  His conclusion that, \\"Communism was not a good idea that went wrong; it was a bad idea\\" rings true to the majority who have studied it.  Communism's survey is quite damning and leaves little room for exculpatory evidence for all the tragedies committed on the behalf of a pseudo-philosopher named Marx.<br />Pipes visits the theoretical underpinnings of Marxism and finds every premise flawed.  First, there has never been a society where man did not value his possessions.  Even in the days of feudalism, the serf had his own plot of land he worked and was allowed to maintain.  What he did not give to his lord he kept for himself.  Communism pretends that man will productively work when he is inherently not vested in the results of his labors.  This has never been the case.  When one acknowledges this theoretical misassumption, the doom that flows from it is not surprising.  Traditionally, the landowner and the tenant were partners, and the landowner could not profit without the tenant's successful tilling of the soil.  With communism, no such interaction between citizen and bureaucrat was necessary.  If the yields were low, only the citizens starved.  The bureaucrats never did.  In Russia , there was no motivation to work at all.  As one peasant said, \\"They pretend to pay us and we pretend to work.\\"  Another said, \\"If you don't steal from your government, you are stealing from your family.\\"  If you get any time off over the summer and are at the beach (or even at a laundromat), I recommend reading or skimming Communism: A History. If nothing else, it helps us give thanks for all we've been given (and avoided) by living in the United States of America.d to work.\\"  Another said, \\"If you don't steal from your government, you are stealing from your family.\\"   If you get any time off over the summer and are at the beach (or even at a laundromat), I recommend reading or skimming Communism: A History. If nothing else, it helps us give thanks for all we've been given (and avoided) by living in the United States of America.	2004-06-05
US	48486228	R1XPD426GG2HF7	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Mountain of Creative Joy.	The trilogy, and Fellowship in particular, helped to shape my childhood.  It opened the doors of perception far more than Aldous Huxley or LSD ever could have.  Tolkien is a creative master with talent far beyond what I would have thought possible.  Do you realize just how much literature has been an organized rip off of The Lord of the Things?  Buy for any boy you know--and read it aloud to them if they're too young to discern the words.	2004-06-01
US	48486228	R2JE8U8CIZW9AO	1890626317	991819171	Hating Whitey and Other Progressive Causes	Books	5	22	30	N	N	Earthshaking.	When I read this book in 2000, it completely changed my life.  I was voting Democrat at the time because it was the party of my family, but Hating Whitey was the final straw as I never voted Democrat again.  Horowitz takes out a mighty sword and hacks political correctness to pieces.  He accomplishes many things in these pages as he points out the folly of reverse racism and President Clinton's mistakes in national security.  This is his finest compilation to date although the Anti-Chomsky reader is on my wish list.	2004-05-30
US	48486228	R2K4JOF6WYGEVQ	0895260670	355836637	Madame Hillary: The Dark Road to the White House	Books	4	72	81	N	N	Hillary's Long March.	Most conservatives are completely baffled by the Hillarymania of today's liberals.  A recent poll illustrates that she remains a highly polarizing figure among the American electorate.  Should she run in 2008, the right will have no trouble turning out its base as 48% of the population hold an unfavorable view of her.  Her road to victory will be formidable, but the Clintons have encountered numerous challenges over the years and emerged victorious time after time.  It is undoubtedly for this reason that R. Emmett Tyrrell, Jr. (with Mark Davis) decided to write Madame Hillary: The Dark Road to the White House.<br />Their account is a brief political history of the woman who could be queen.  It is also an attempt to warn us of what may happen should she seize power.  This biography gazes into the future and is terrified by what may be.<br />The \\"Madame\\" in the title refers to China's Madame Mao who was known as \\"the white boned demon.\\"  Tyrrell does not accuse Hillary Clinton of being a demon but does believe that the respectable person presented to us by her PR department does not in fact exist.  Senator Clinton is a \\"Coat and Tie Radical\\" who has never forgotten or disowned the revolutionary ideas of the 1960's.  Society exists for her and her kind to reconfigure.<br />As the allusion to Madame Mao may have informed you, this book is not an objective account of Hillary's life.  It is written from the perspective of a warrior in the Clinton Wars and there is nothing equivocal in its narration.<br />As Editor in Chief of The American Spectator, R. Emmett Tyrrell's experiences with the Clintons were legion and none of them produced pleasure.  He recounts a story when he ran across Bill in the Jockey Club.  He decided to ask him a question.  The former President responded with annoyance and a very pathetic temper tantrum.  Yet Tyrrell notes that it was Hillary's cold stare, as opposed to Mr. Clinton's babyish whines, that truly unnerved him.<br />Madame Hillary will not appeal to anyone on the left or moderates in general as there is little diplomatic or uncertain about its tone.  Tyrrell has seen all he needs to see from the former first lady and, while he admits that she has made great strides in her political skills, he fears for all of our futures should she become president.<br />\\"Madame Hillary would, in her wildest dreams, undoubtedly relish a presidency that was an unending left-wing rampage, a national Cambodian re-education camp for anyone caught wearing an Adam Smith necktie or scarf.  Such `extremists are the enemy, after all, composing the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy that must be scotched if Clintonian America is to be saved.  She would install an all-woman Cabinet to thumb her nose at the patriarchy...With Hillary now making all the appointments, why not have a Cabinet full of short-haired harridans and crypto-Marxists from assorted left-wing hothouses?\\"<br />She is one of the most important people on our planet and Tyrrell believes this outcome is not due to chance.  He depicts her as an individual consumed by ambition and a lust for power.  Her personality is colored by an overwhelming need to control others.  She is a \\"self-promoting dynamo\\" and a \\"self-regarding existentialist.\\"  What steps she takes (and over whom) are irrelevant.  The ends always justify the means.  The author asks Dick Morris about her private life and he relays that she doesn't have one.  Hillary is an example of a life whose essence is to make the most of the political opportunities that are encountered.<br />Madame Hillary is a  well-written work and a general good use of one's time, yet it is by no means a comprehensive history of the junior Senator from New York.  If that's what the reader is looking for I'd recommend Barbara Olson's Hell to Pay instead.  Although, as far as producing entertainment and arguments for the conservative faithful, there are few better or more timely offerings available than this strident book by Emmett Tyrrell.	2004-05-29
US	48486228	R2L7IPT704FJIO	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	3	13	23	N	N	Not Exactly Treason.	Ann Coulter is a heroine to many conservatives as she writes voluminously and is a ubiquitous figure on television where she can be seen championing our cause several times a week. Regardless of the media venue, she'll stand up to any foe that the left brings before her and unflinchingly debates firebrands like Gloria Allred, James Carville, Paul Begala, and Eric Alterman. She is more Green Beret than Hessian mercenary. Ann Coulter is simply the best sword that we on the right possess. With this in mind, I joined thousands of others who bought her new book the first week it was released.<br />Coulter's theme is that although \\"the form of treachery varies slightly from case to case, liberals always manage to take the position that most undermines American security.\\" To this particular reviewer, a better title for the book would have been \\"Negligence\\" as it is a more accurate description of the positions taken (or not taken as the case may be) by the left. To have focused on negligence rather than treason would have been less inflammatory, and it would also have decreased the breadth of her critics' argumentative ground.<br />Coulter has some very valuable and timeless observations apart from the controversial Senator McCarthy. She argues that, \\"[h]istory is an endless process of liberal brainwashing,\\" and I find much truth in this statement. I've read over 100 books on Hitler and Stalin but I'd be hard-pressed to tell you which one was more evil. They were both a level of sadistic monstrosity that makes comparisons arbitrary and meaningless. Yet, to embrace the Soviet Union is still a socially acceptable (or really socially neutral) act, but to embrace the Third Reich is the act of a pariah. Why is this true? Unfortunately, it is because communism is thought of being on the left side of the political spectrum and Nazism is thought of being on the right side of the political spectrum. Of course, such perceptions are not accurate. In my opinion, both are pathologies of the left but I'll save that argument for another time. Regardless, I believe that Coulter's statement about history is quite insightful.<br />The fundamental premise of Treason, that leftist-liberals care little about this nation's security and often display an anti-American bias when analyzing world events, has considerable evidence behind it. She states that the only part of government that the left ever wants to reduce in size is national defense. Whether America has a right to defend itself is central to this work. It is also a very topical discussion. This reviewer just penned a piece about Liberia and my belief is that their struggle does not advance America's interests in any way, so it seems an unworthy use of force. In Treason, Coulter provides the microscope through which the left would examine my arguments. She stated, \\"The left's theory of a just war had evolved to (1) military force must never be deployed in America's self-interest; and (2) we must first receive approval from the Europeans, especially the Germans. Good thing we didn't have that rule in 1941.\\" Indeed, the left never expects us to act in our own interests because defending the nation is something that ironic and rational adults would never consider.<br />Treason is a polemic and thus is imbued with a great deal of hyperbole (as if I have any room to talk). This has not been lost on any of Coulter's critics and they have, and will, spend considerable time attacking her politically incorrect speech. I acknowledge that name-calling weakens her case as the use of \\"Oriental beasts\\" will offend practically everybody. She further describes America's defeatist male liberals as being \\"women\\" along with labeling professors: \\"sissy-boys in academia.\\"<br />People will make much of this non-PC talk, but I don't think it's anything more than the purposeful desire to blow the veneer off the edifice of society's submission to leftist dogma (a.k.a.-PC). Coulter, like many other conservatives, knows thatcalling grown men \\"girls\\" irritates the recipient to no end and horrifies the radical feminists who despise everyone that refuses to obey their commands. Ann Coulter is guilty of too much zeal but considering the lies and deceit that the left foists upon those of us who defend western civilization, it is nearly warranted. Given our times, I am not surprised that venomous invective is so much a part of this book. I agree it would be a more scholarly work without it but I think it unlikely she would willingly sanitize her own words even if one hundred million people requested it. It's not in her nature. This book will be a huge money-maker for all involved and I recommend it without hesitation to my brothers and sisters on the right, yet I acknowledge it will have little appeal to those in the center.g grown men \\"girls\\" irritates the recipient to no end and horrifies the radical feminists who despise everyone that refuses to obey their commands. Ann Coulter is guilty of too much zeal but considering the lies and deceit that the left foists upon those of us who defend western civilization, it is nearly warranted. Given our times, I am not surprised that venomous invective is so much a part of this book. I agree it would be a more scholarly work without it but I think it unlikely she would willingly sanitize her own words even if one hundred million people requested it. It's not in her nature. This book will be a huge money-maker for all involved and I recommend it without hesitation to my brothers and sisters on the right, yet I acknowledge it will have little appeal to those in the center.	2004-05-27
US	48486228	R2D8C3T5TVYZQA	0786868821	913926982	Cad: Confessions of a Toxic Bachelor	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A Jolly Ride.	First off, the title for the book is potentially misleading. Mr. Marin is not a cad as he is neither unprincipled nor ungentlemanly throughout the majority of his interactions. At one point a woman he works with wants to set him up on a blind date and he says \\"I have a girlfriend. I can't take her number.\\" This is not the response of a cad. In the eyes of this reviewer, it appears that Mr. Marin is well within the range of average behavior for a man or woman in America throughout the 284 pages in which he describes himself. He is not a saint or a demon. At one point he even recites the motto of all anti-cads by saying that \\"sex is not enough.\\"<br />Marin's is a story with great universality. His work will resonate with many unmarried straight people and there is much truth in it. His observation that \\"I'd spent so much time `pouring my heart and soul into being insincere,' I'd forgotten how to act with a girl I actually liked\\" is an unhappy predicament that affects countless single adults. Re-igniting lost idealism and optimism is a highly daunting task and a foremost reason as to why finding love later in life is such a struggle. Those of us in our thirties all have emotional baggage and it invariably means that sometimes one has been brutalized in the past and can now be brutalizing in the future. This is true regardless of one's sex as we inflict pain but also have it inflicted upon us. Mr. Marin is far from an exception to this rule.<br />Much of Marin's status seeking in the memoir can be attributed to the old Orson Welles quote about men making civilization to impress their girlfriends but the narrator amends the saying it by changing it \\"to get girlfriends.\\" He spends tremendous mental capital in the pursuit of making his career as a journalist a success but often finds that he needs monthly subsidies from his parents just to get by. Work is as chancy a venture as love is for Mr. Marin. It seems that his internal makeup and character are nearly insurmountable obstacles to Marin getting what he wants and needs out of life as he lacks the quality of `decisiveness', which is one of the worlds greatest virtues, and his indecisiveness in all things sabotages his numerous opportunities.<br />What drives the action in Cad... is the author's attempt to recover and stabilize his life after the debacle of his divorce. This traumatizing event is key to any understanding of our aging anti-hero. In his three year marriage, Marin was flayed and flamb&eacute;ed by his ex-wife severely. By any configuration, his was an awful marriage. His narration humorously documented: \\"...even our goldfish were committing suicide. I found them on the floor halfway between the door and the window. Making a break for it, maybe. I didn't blame them.\\" Marin had met a girl who cuckolded him and he ignored every portend of their relationship's doom (\\"after we were married, she was still introducing me as her `friend'\\").<br />This book is a jolly good ride and, therefore, easy to recommend. Unlike other tell-alls, Marin never takes himself too seriously and shows that he can laugh at himself. One of my favorites lines is illustrative: \\"She called me an `opportunist,' because I went to publicity events for the free booze. I'm a journalist!' I protested.\\" Cad is a major surprise as the misandry embossed onto the back cover gave this reviewer a bad case of the heebie-jeebies, but, in the end, it is a far more valid description of the single life today than what one finds in practically every other memoir or publication.bstacles to Marin getting what he wants and needs out of life as he lacks the quality of `decisiveness', which is one of the worlds greatest virtues, and his indecisiveness in all things sabotages his numerous opportunities. <BR>What drives the action in Cad... is the author's attempt to recover and stabilize his life after the debacle of his divorce. This traumatizing event is key to any understanding of our aging anti-hero. In his three year marriage, Marin was flayed and flambed by his ex-wife severely. By any configuration, his was an awful marriage. His narration humorously documented: \\"...even our goldfish were committing suicide. I found them on the floor halfway between the door and the window. Making a break for it, maybe. I didn't blame them.\\" Marin had met a girl who cuckolded him and he ignored every portend of their relationship's doom (\\"after we were married, she was still introducing me as her `friend'\\").<BR>This book is a jolly good ride and, therefore, easy to recommend. Unlike other tell-alls, Marin never takes himself too seriously and shows that he can laugh at himself. One of my favorites lines is illustrative: \\"She called me an `opportunist,' because I went to publicity events for the free booze. I'm a journalist!' I protested.\\" Cad is a major surprise as the misandry embossed onto the back cover gave this reviewer a bad case of the heebie-jeebies, but, in the end, it is a far more valid description of the single life today than what one finds in practically every other memoir or publication.	2004-05-26
US	48486228	R1T0GR3187ORBL	0465017339	897442970	Letters to a Young Conservative (Art of Mentoring)	Books	5	37	44	N	N	Arguments for the Masses.	Occasionally a book comes along that validates the old clich&eacute; about being so good that you can't put it down. Dinesh D'Souza's Letters to a Young Conservative is absolutely one such book. In it he writes a series of letters, thirty-one in all, to a fictional young undergraduate conservative named Chris. The premise is that Chris has written D'Souza after seeing him speak at his university. Chris is overwhelmed by the leftist politically correct atmosphere at his college and D'Souza comforts him by giving counsel on every imaginable topic in the realm of ideas. His arguments draw on nearly twenty-five years of street fighting within the conservative movement. This work is part of a series by Basic Books of established older masters offering advice to the young, and includes Christopher Hitchens' outstanding Letters to a Young Contrarian.<br />D'Souza's book is a moving, exquisite pep-talk for all right-minded thinkers regardless of age. It is not an explosive tirade and instead is a series of quiet, rational arguments designed to illustrate that anything is possible if one is reflective and patient. The work is truly deceiving due to its accessibility and style. D'Souza is not verbose and writes highly comprehensible sentences. The clarity of the text is problematic as you may plow through a few pages before realizing that D'Souza has just written something quite profound. As a warning, you should not begin reading this hardback if you have vocational or personal interests that cannot be immediately neglected because the enlightenment the book issues is highly addictive.<br />The material is serious for the most part but there are a few occasions where the reader may find his or her self laughing out loud after ingesting the exploits of D'Souza and his college peers who worked at the samizdat, The Dartmouth Review. They were one of the first, if not the very first, alternative conservative college publications in the country and the militancy of the left at Dartmouth propelled D'Souza to their ranks even though he initially entered college as a liberal.<br />He and his friends bait the existing power hierarchy repeatedly but on no occasion so humorously as when they protest the university's expenditures on the Gay Students' Association. The Dartmouth Review viewed this as being inappropriate and discriminatory as it was awarding funds to individuals based on sexual orientation only. Their way of dealing with the quandary was quite novel to say the least.<br />D'Souza and peers, to illustrate the ridiculousness of such organizations, formed The Dartmouth Bestiality Society and even appointed a president and zookeeper. They then went to the dean to ask for support but the dean responded that no support was necessary as there was no interest in such activities at Dartmouth. The President of the Bestiality Society responded with, \\"That may be true, Dean Hanson, but it is because of centuries of discrimination! Those of us who are inclined toward animals have been systematically excluded and ostracized. Our organization will provide a supportive atmosphere in which people of our particular sexual orientation are treated with respect. At Dartmouth...let us put an end to beast phobia.\\" [p.28] Their method may be extreme but it teaches the moral that ridicule is a potent force when dealing with the absurdity that is multi-cultural theory and diversity in America. They may not have won the battle but nearly everyone held the Gay Students' Association in a different light after their proposal.<br />D'Souza has some very original arguments in the book that should help the reader in dealing with the ever present emotional tirades thrown by liberals. This reviewer's favorite chapter was the one on the temperament of conservatives versus that of liberals. The most important point in the book, and certainly the argument that the author most needed to make, is that conservatives are a far happier lot than liberals. This is due to the fact that we have already embraced the realities of our world and the inherent flaws within human nature. As we view ourselves as being part of a historical continuum, we do not attempt to wrestle with forces that cannot change so we accept our limited place in the scheme of things and never experience emotional meltdown when we discover that legislation cannot alter the flaws of humanity.<br />This book is a recording of quintessential songs to be learned and sung by any who are a David beneath the boot of the leftist Goliath. This Goliath has the media as a sword and the universities and the public schools as his spear, but with the help of D'Souza, independent media outlets, and patriotic fervor, we may be able to stone this unruly Goliath back into the bronze age.ave already embraced the realities of our world and the inherent flaws within human nature. As we view ourselves as being part of a historical continuum, we do not attempt to wrestle with forces that cannot change so we accept our limited place in the scheme of things and never experience emotional meltdown when we discover that legislation cannot alter the flaws of humanity. <BR>This book is a recording of quintessential songs to be learned and sung by any who are a David beneath the boot of the leftist Goliath. This Goliath has the media as a sword and the universities and the public schools as his spear, but with the help of DSouza, independent media outlets, and patriotic fervor, we may be able to stone this unruly Goliath back into the bronze age.	2004-05-26
US	48486228	R2MGKMMURUYTT2	0142003018	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Noble Cause.	This book is really a &quot;how to&quot; book.  It depicts ways in which you can defend the country that many others are ashamed to say they live in.  The author attempts to understand radical Islam as opposed to simply condemning it.  His analysis of the Islamic mentality is concise and thoughtful.  We will understand those who hate us much better because of his efforts.<br />What D'Souza does here that is truly unique is that he puts geopolitical events in the proper perspective.  There is no denial to be found in his pages.  The US is far from perfect.  We have committed numerous wrongs but in the final analysis we are the freest, kindest, most generous country on this planet.  We should all be as proud as D'Souza.	2004-05-25
US	48486228	R1M720CBIJX0G4	076580090X	974098417	Discontents: Postmodern and Postcommunist	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Uneven but Wonderful.	Discontents is prolonged and efficient siege on the seductive and corrupt ideas that have hypnotized our cognitive elite. He thoroughly debunks the hogwash which poses as scholarship today. Hollander offers no circumlocution. No target evades him and, in a little over 400 pages, his pen turns the dogma of academia to verbose scrapple.<br />The book is comprised of 25 essays and most of them are brilliant. They should be read again and again. This is particularly true of his introduction, \\"`Imagined Tyranny'? Political Correctness Reconsidered,\\" \\"Reassessing the Adversary Culture,\\" \\"The Pursuit of Identity, Community and Social Justice,\\" and, lastly, \\"Marxism and Western Intellectuals in the Post-communist Era.\\"<br />The remainder are average or better with the exception being a piece regarding Coppola's film, \\"Godfather II.\\" This was his only offering with a conclusion I disagreed with, and I regard its inclusion in the collection as a mistake.<br />Without question, Paul Hollander is an expert on the subject of which he writes. He is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and a fellow of Russian Studies at Harvard University, but his career is miles from winding down as he will soon release a title on anti-Americanism.<br />Should Hollander be named to a college presidency, cultural Marxism would soon go the way of Khmer Rouge apologists. There would be no where to hide from his supervision. To him, a politically correct campus is one that includes the following: the presence of speech codes, advantages in financial aid, admission or recruitment for designated groups, an allowance for group self-segregation like in dormitories, freshman orientation programs drenched in leftist dogma, the presence of black studies, women studies, or gay studies, required courses in multiculturalism, required sensitivity training for staff, and, lastly, computing the profile of the school's average commencement speaker and whether they are consistently on the left of the political spectrum.<br />In my mind, the book's strongest passage is Hollander's dissection of what is known as \\"selective determinism.\\" I acknowledge that some readers were already aware of this concept, but I was unaware of it until reading Discontents. Selective determinism suggests that, for some blessed members of the population, nothing they do is their fault.<br />This minority, which strangely makes up 70% of the population, is excused and forgiven because they are deemed oppressed and were embroidered with a pink letter \\"O\\" at birth. They are not individuals. Their lives have been steered by societal forces that, like a powerful undertow, drags them in directions they never intended to go.<br />In summation, Paul Hollander's Discontents documents the humane need to triumph over lies wherever we encounter them. The contributions of this exceptional man invigorate our side in the culture war; a side that stands for free speech, liberty, and honesty. As for me, I will not sell my personal copy nor loan it out, but, should I ever awake to find a Swedish PC Inspector armed with several pens and an assistant at the door, you can be sure I'll toss the text into a pre-constructed secret panel before inviting them in for a microscopic tour of Abba records and Jessie Jackson Cat in the Hat books on tape.left of the political spectrum.  In my mind, the book's strongest passage is Hollander's dissection of what is known as \\"selective determinism.\\" I acknowledge that some readers were already aware of this concept, but I was unaware of it until reading Discontents. Selective determinism suggests that, for some blessed members of the population, nothing they do is their fault.  This minority, which strangely makes up 70% of the population, is excused and forgiven because they are deemed oppressed and were embroidered with a pink letter \\"O\\" at birth. They are not individuals. Their lives have been steered by societal forces that, like a powerful undertow, drags them in directions they never intended to go.  In summation, Paul Hollander's Discontents documents the humane need to triumph over lies wherever we encounter them. The contributions of this exceptional man invigorate our side in the culture war; a side that stands for free speech, liberty, and honesty. As for me, I will not sell my personal copy nor loan it out, but, should I ever awake to find a Swedish PC Inspector armed with several pens and an assistant at the door, you can be sure I'll toss the text into a pre-constructed secret panel before inviting them in for a microscopic tour of Abba records and Jessie Jackson Cat in the Hat books on tape.	2004-05-23
US	48486228	R2A7WKTUJUQI8P	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Absolutely Marvelous.	This is a book I'd place in the same stratosphere as Conquest's The Great Terror.  It's lively and written with a skilled hand.  You'll be shocked at the speed in which you'll read this meticulous and entertaining history.  The sickness and sadism that embodied Stalinism is vividly defined by Montefiore.  The author spent considerable time analyzing primary source materials and it paid off in a biography that was definitely worth the money I paid for it.  I highly recommend it.	2004-05-23
US	48486228	RAXZQHEJEWUT4	0142001686	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Thank God for Reagan.	Not only the length of Ronald Reagan's life but also the length of his political shadow has surpassed all expectations. Along with Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy, poll data suggests that he is ranked by the general public as being one of three greatest presidents in our history. With the USS Ronald Reagan being commissioned the other day, there seems to be no more opportune time to discuss a man who, in this writer's opinion, is the greatest hero of the twentieth century.<br />Peggy Noonan's When Character was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan adds to the plethora of works now available about the 40th president. Dinesh D'Souza's Ronald Reagan: How an Ordinary Man Became an Extraordinary Leader and Michael Deaver's A Different Drummer: My Thirty Years with Ronald Reagan are two other excellent biographies that were also penned quite recently. Noonan's account is as valuable as the others but all of them have something individually unique to offer the reader.<br />In the case of Peggy Noonan, although she was a speechwriter in the Reagan Administration, her account is a journalistic tapestry and rarely an \\"I was there\\" type of memoir (as opposed to Deaver's). Noonan conducts countless interviews with family members like Nancy Reagan and Patty Reagan along with many other friends and associates. I was taken aback when I read Bob Feller quoted several times concerning the strengths of President Reagan. I had no idea that they knew one another. The author left few sources unturned and her account will undoubtedly be treasured by future biographers.<br />What makes reading about Reagan so immensely rewarding is that his life was lived above and beyond the parameters of our \\"what did he know and when did he know it\\" time of cynicism. Noonan makes clear, even in her detailed description of the Iran-contra affair, that this was a leader who breathed optimism and exhaled confidence. Once one finishes Character, the reader will accurately wonder if they'll ever be another man like this born again.<br />Noonan's story is exactly what it purports to be. It is a description of character, as opposed to a chronological tale and through this writer's talented hand, a frail and sickly man becomes lively again. I think a better title for the book may be Nuances of Ronald Reagan because that's exactly what her narrative delivers. Unlike D'Souza, Noonan does not believe that Reagan was an ordinary man at all. She holds much of what he did to be magnificent and little that he said or accomplished could be described by the word \\"average.\\"<br />Of all the traits that he possesses, humility seems to be the one that is all-pervasive. His biggest aspiration as a young man was to become an actor. This profession embodied all of his dreams. When the day came and he was actually offered an acting job in Hollywood (it came with a salary of 200 dollars a week and a seven year contract), he wired back to his agent in California, \\"Sign before they change their minds.\\"<br />There is one story that is better than all of the others. Who among us can remain unmoved when reading about the president with Frances Green? For those of you who are unfamiliar with the interlude let me recapitulate the events. Frances Green was a poor 83-year-old woman from California who was a lifelong member of the Republican Party and a fervent admirer of Ronald Reagan. One day she received in the mail an invitation to a Republican fundraiser event that included a meeting with President Reagan. The event came with a hefty price tag (Noonan's account does not mention this specific) and, Ms. Green, failing to notice that a contribution was expected, hopped on a train to Washington to attend without even attempting to RSVP. Upon her arrival, she was barred from the White House, but a Ford executive overheard her story and arranged for her to get a tour anyway.<br />Think about buying or borrowing a copy of this book as it will give you more tingles than the ending of the movie \\"Signs.\\"When Noonan shares her memory of Reagan's 1981 inauguration as President of the United States, and tells the reader that the sun made its way through an ugly and dark day to cast a halo of light upon the president's head, it takes an atheist indeed to question it-given the light, glory and freedom this man gave to the world.igns.\\" When Noonan shares her memory of Reagans 1981 inauguration as President of the United States, and tells the reader that the sun made its way through an ugly and dark day to cast a halo of light upon the presidents head, it takes an atheist indeed to question it-given the light, glory and freedom this man gave to the world.	2004-05-23
US	48486228	R2W9BF1LN48NXA	014018726X	704446933	The Clown (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	The Finest Novel Ever.	Rash as it is to say this is the finest novel I've ever read.  It is Catcher in the Rye for adults and it's depth of feeling is unsurpassed.  Boll is a magnificent writer and translation in no way diminishes his gifts.  The creativity, an example would be Schnier's ability to smell odors through the phone, is remarkable.  I couldn't put it down either the first or the second time that I read it. Yes, it is depressing, but there is much joy in it and it gives a reader a tremendous opportunity to reflect on the realities of his or her own life.  I could not recommend a book more highly.	2004-05-21
US	48486228	R2J7R3I1EXYA4Y	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	3	13	22	N	N	Who Was Bill Clinton?	William Jefferson Clinton is a president who will be studied in photos, films and books for generations to come. He may be the most famous man in America. This famous man was given an opportunity to lead the greatest and most powerful nation on earth and in due course he turned his administration into a \\"carefree `saxophone, dark sunglasses, and boogie-down anything goes'\\" parade of self-interest, so says Lieutenant Colonel Robert \\"Buzz\\" Patterson in his Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How Bill Clinton Endangered America's Long-Term National Security. Through Patterson, the reader is privy to many occasions when Clinton's view of national security was no better than fluff and circumstance.<br />Patterson was one of the military aides who carried the \\"nuclear football,\\" which is an attach&eacute; case containing America's nuclear launch codes. He, or whichever officer was assigned to carry it, was supposed to be at the president's beck and call 24 hours a day in case of a nuclear attack. From this vantage point, Patterson, in eight quickly moving chapters, spins a highly grim yarn. One of the job functions of the president is to keep a set of nuclear codes on his person at all times no matter where he is, but, at one point, when Patterson comes to him to replace last year's codes with new ones, he discovers that Clinton has lost them. Clinton said \\"I don't have mine on me. I'll track it down, guys, and get it back to you.\\" [p.56] He never did and, despite a frantic search, the old codes were never found.<br />The book is both a political and a personal tale. We learn much about the Clinton Administration but we also learn much about Lieutenant Colonel Patterson. He is at first awed by the White House and slightly awed by Clinton himself. \\"I was immediately impressed by his presence, his charisma, and the way he looked me straight in the eye. I couldn't help instantly liking him.\\" [p.44] I personally don't know President Clinton and if I stay in my current tax bracket I undoubtedly never will, but I suspect that Patterson's first impression of him is quite similar to what the majority of others have experienced. Clinton, as we all already know, casts a mighty spell indeed.<br />Many stories told about Clinton cite his reported mental pathology as their focal point, sometimes he is described as having antisocial personality traits or as being the adult child of an alcoholic. Patterson does not do this. His analysis does not include a clinical angle but the conclusions that he does make are based on common sense which seems to be abundantly available to twenty year, highly decorated, Air Force veterans.<br />The strongest sections in Dereliction of Duty are when Patterson lets events speak for themselves and the narration has a \\"just the facts\\" approach. The facts in isolation are able to speak bombastically without further support or qualification. The incidents that Patterson witnessed are unusual as they depict a president who was criminally irresponsible and unable to sacrifice an infatuation with his own life long enough to allow time for managing our nation's defense. By the end of the book, the reader is profoundly grateful that Clinton's inattention, passivity and indecisiveness did not get us involved in a nuclear conflagration (where those lost codes would have actually been needed).<br />Again and again Patterson illuminates that Clinton had no business being our commander in chief. On September 13, 1996, Clinton attended the President's Cup golf tournament in Virginia and, while the president mingled and gladhanded, an opportunity presented itself to thwart the Iraqi massacres of the Kurds. Sandy Berger, at the time the National Security Council deputy director, called repeatedly to get the president's okay for launching air strikes against Iraqi positions. Patterson tried many times to get his attention but Clinton viewed golf and socializing as being his work for the day. He dismissed Patterson and refused to speak to Berger. Nighttime air cover was soon lost and the strikes against Iraq were never launched.<br />A wonderful tidbit of insider information is conveyed in the story of \\"Operation Bojinka.\\" As he was organizing the notes in one of Clinton's Presidential Daily Briefs, he found reference to an \\"Operation Bojinka\\" which was Osama Bin Laden's plan for using airplanes as flying bombs and kamikaze instruments. The author unearthed this helpful find during the summer of 1996 which makes one wonder how the press could have used reports like this one against the current president and concluding that \\"he knew the attacks were coming.\\" By the same measure or standard, Clinton would have known five years before 9/11.<br />The most egregious error made by Clinton was when he turned down the opportunity to take out the same Osama Bin Laden. It was in the fall of 1998 and Bin Laden was located and our forces had a two hour window in which to act. Berger attempted for a hour to locate Clinton but was told he was unavailable. Finally, when they located him, Clinton would not act. He wanted to study and consult with other staff members about the issue. By the time he was done mulling it over, Bin Laden was gone. Had a dirty bomb been in Al Qaeda's hands before 9/11 the indecisive and uninterested, President Clinton may well have really managed to have dropped the nuclear football.o Berger. Nighttime air cover was soon lost and the strikes against Iraq were never launched. <BR>A wonderful tidbit of insider information is conveyed in the story of \\"Operation Bojinka.\\" As he was organizing the notes in one of Clintons Presidential Daily Briefs, he found reference to an \\"Operation Bojinka\\" which was Osama Bin Ladens plan for using airplanes as flying bombs and kamikaze instruments. The author unearthed this helpful find during the summer of 1996 which makes one wonder how the press could have used reports like this one against the current president and concluding that \\"he knew the attacks were coming.\\" By the same measure or standard, Clinton would have known five years before 9/11. <BR>The most egregious error made by Clinton was when he turned down the opportunity to take out the same Osama Bin Laden. It was in the fall of 1998 and Bin Laden was located and our forces had a two hour window in which to act. Berger attempted for a hour to locate Clinton but was told he was unavailable. Finally, when they located him, Clinton would not act. He wanted to study and consult with other staff members about the issue. By the time he was done mulling it over, Bin Laden was gone. Had a dirty bomb been in Al Qaedas hands before 9/11 the indecisive and uninterested, President Clinton may well have really managed to have dropped the nuclear football.	2004-05-21
US	48486228	RX50TZQH03EBT	1566635241	443719433	Lives of the Mind: The Use and Abuse of Intelligence from Hegel to Wodehouse	Books	5	25	31	N	Y	Conserving our Culture.	I am ecstatic to inform you of the noble presence of Roger Kimball. This man, the Managing Editor of The New Criterion, had made his career a tenacious crusade to save our history and to publicize the great minds and ideas that have made our culture the greatest on this earth.<br />Kimball is one of the few men who recognized the cultural calamity from its beginnings. His Tenured Radicals was one of the first publications to identify and showcase the current bizarre practices in our universities. It came out over a decade ago and, since that time, he has written numerous books that examine the major figures and trends within literature, art, philosophy, history, and political science. Unlike the rest of us, Kimball has the ability to specialize in the liberal arts on the whole.<br />Even though it lacks the earth-shattering power of The Long March; Lives of the Mind is an exquisite endeavor.<br />The book showcases 18 \\"minds\\" or intellectuals and its theme is that \\"intelligence, like fire, is a power that is neither good nor bad in itself but rather takes its virtue, its moral coloring from its application.\\" Although, no chapter is assigned for him in the text, Karl Marx would be the perfect example of the misapplication of intelligence. Hegel and Wittgenstein, who both receive treatment in Lives of the Mind, would be two others.<br />All of the 18 essays originally appeared in The New Criterion, and, as I have a subscription to the excellent journal, it was my second chance to read many of them. My favorites involved Plutarch, P.G. Wodehouse, and George Santayana. Yet, all of them have value as they inform us of lives and works of writers who are rarely discussed within the current Kultursmog.<br />Many of his subjects like Descartes, Schopenhauer, Plutarch, and Tocqueville are familiar to most of our readers, but how much time do we have as adults to devote ourselves to their actual achievements? The answer is not much. One of his most enjoyable essays concerns G.C. Lichtenberg, and I can honestly state that I had never even heard his name before I read Kimball's chapter. Lives offers a brief tutorial for those of us who have forgotten about these men or never had a chance to learn about them in the first place.<br />What makes Kimball so important? Well, first of all, Kimball stands up to phonies and charlatans with a combination of bravery and erudition that few others possess. There appears to be no living person that he is afraid to refute, and he could care less about popular opinion.<br />This may sound odd but I think that his intelligence is best expressed in the way that he makes his paragraphs accessible to the reader. There's no need for him to hide behind amalgamations of post-modernist verbal diarrhea like other contemporary scholars. Kimball readily reveals his words and analysis to the reader.<br />Yet, to leave it at intelligence and courage is to sell the writer short. I would be leaving out his wit, which has to be his most endearing characteristic. For a man who is earnestly serious, his very creative sense of humor is integral to his success.<br />There's no reason to take my word for it. Let's let the author speak for himself. At one point, he labels the leftist obfuscators, Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri, as having crafted a \\"reader-proof tome.\\" He, later in the text, describes Alcibiades as being \\"the perfect contemporary hero: rich, handsome, brilliant, amoral: he had it all. He was even bisexual, virtually a prerequisite for appearing well-rounded these days.\\"<br />This next line, concerning the German poet Schiller, made me laugh aloud: \\"Schiller once spoke of himself in a letter as an intellectual Zwitterart, a hermaphrodite, a remark that doubtless will form the basis of some Ph.D thesis in `queer theory' before long.\\" Apparently, Kimball has forgotten that Schiller was too white, too male, and too talented to be the focus of modern dissertations.<br />Lastly, in reference to the moronic quote ofone of his subjects (\\"I think to be born under Bolshevism would not be worse than to be born in Boston\\"), he sardonically adds, in reference to the Brahmin families of Boston, \\"Moscow, where Stalins speak only to Lenins, and the Lenins speak only to Marx.\\"<br />The book is rife with primary source materials and Kimball always uses his subjects' words to enliven his discussion. A good example would be in his essay on Walter Bagehot (one of Kimball's favorites) . He quotes \\"the greatest Victorian\\" statement that, \\"the best institutions will not keep right a nation that will go wrong.\\" Bagehot's analysis proves to be surprising topical considering that he wrote them over a century ago. In this same lively chapter, we read Bagehot's unknowing description of the post-modernist malarkey that suffocates our current university scholarship: \\"In the faculty of writing non-sense, stupidity is no match for genius.\\" After reading this line, one has the sensation of Michael Foucault and Jacques Derrida whisking into the room and clamoring for more flouts of Krug and packs of Sobranies.one of his subjects (\\"I think to be born under Bolshevism would not be worse than to be born in Boston\\"), he sardonically adds, in reference to the Brahmin families of Boston, \\"Moscow, where Stalins speak only to Lenins, and the Lenins speak only to Marx.\\"<br />The book is rife with primary source materials and Kimball always uses his subjects' words to enliven his discussion. A good example would be in his essay on Walter Bagehot (one of Kimball's favorites) . He quotes \\"the greatest Victorian\\" statement that, \\"the best institutions will not keep right a nation that will go wrong.\\" Bagehot's analysis proves to be surprising topical considering that he wrote them over a century ago. In this same lively chapter, we read Bagehot's unknowing description of the post-modernist malarkey that suffocates our current university scholarship: \\"In the faculty of writing non-sense, stupidity is no match for genius.\\" After reading this line, one has the sensation of Michael Foucault and Jacques Derrida whisking into the room and clamoring for more flouts of Krug and packs of Sobranies.	2004-05-21
US	48486228	R11WXPGCYW90VJ	1400053064	314734038	Hard America, Soft America: Competition vs. Coddling and the Battle for the Nation's Future	Books	4	68	73	N	N	Great America.	In our society we generally acknowledge that the only way to gain strength and prestige is through working hard and enhancing one's innate abilities.  Even though some may dispute this reality, the proof is in the peripherals as there is probably not a work place in the country lacking one of those mundane \\"Sharpen the Saw\\" posters.<br />That is why it was with considerable excitement that I opened Michael Barone's  Hard America, Soft America: Competition Vs. Coddling and the Battle for the Nation's Future.  The book was just over 160 pages long and proved nearly impossible to put down.  In this extended essay, Barone pounces upon one of the most important questions of our day and his work overlaps public policy, politics, history, philosophy and education.  In short, it is a text that just about everybody should be able to relate to if not appreciate.<br />The theme of Hard America, Soft America is that from the ages of 6 to 18 Americans grow up in a downy world that is largely devoid of competition and accountability, but from the ages of 18 to 30 the texture of their lives radically changes as it becomes rocky and subject to the laws of nature.  One either produces or they are fired.  It is this world, this cauldron of struggle, that forges the Americans who awe the world with a never-ending parade of inventions and discoveries.<br />Barone gives us a tour of our own history and concludes that much of our illustriousness was created by the rigid and unforgiving forces of Hard America.  Men like John D. Rockefeller and J.P. Morgan may not have been able to release their inner child or give group hugs but they were able to employ thousands and provide the means for mass production that made us the victors of war and peace.  Barone views their torch as being carried forward by men like Bill Gates, Jack Welch, Fred Smith, and Sam Walton.  Barone makes use of cultural works to justify his thesis and includes films like \\"The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit,\\" novels like Sister Carrie and infamous dementations like Charles Reich's The Greening of America.<br />The author stresses that there are no firm boundaries between the hard and the soft.  Schools may be bastions of softness but within them are islands of sinew.  High school graduates immediately encounter Hard America when they enter the military or the private sector (perhaps earlier should they work at McDonalds or Wal-Mart before age 18).<br />There is a parasitical relationship between the solid and the downy aspects of our culture.  It is only by the grace and skill of Hard America that Soft America can survive: \\"Soft America lives off the productivity, creativity, and competence of Hard America, and we have the luxury of keeping parts of our society Soft only if we keep enough of it hard.\\"  Without a robust military, there would be no way to preserve the freedom and laxity that is Soft America.<br />Barone dedicated this work to the memory of Senator Moynihan and it is almost a certainty that he would have been pleased by the following description of the effects of excessive softness upon black Americans:<br />\\"The Softening of criminal justice, welfare, racial quotas and preferences, and education- had the effect of confining most blacks to Soft America.  They were left unprotected against crime, deterred from forming stable families, deincentivized the will to achieve.  The advocates of Softening hated the idea of imposing middle-class mores on black Americans, but middle-class mores are necessary for achievement in Hard America, and underclass behavior makes such achievement impossible.\\"<br />The field of public education is one in which Softness has triumphed and the author believes that this situation will not change until parents force the issue.  For many professionals in our schools, the Chaise lounge chairs of pulpous America massages them forever.  Only external forces will coerce them into changing their ways or methodologies.<br />This reviewer has personallywitnessed several attempts of individuals to \\"Speak Truth to Squishiness\\" by bringing rigor into their classrooms and then observed the predicable punishments that were meted out to them in response.<br />Shortly after I finished reading the text I told a teacher about it and she said, \\"Give me that book now!  I need it.\\"  The basis for her interest may have stemmed from her name appearing on a school wide memo ranking our teachers based on who passed the most students.  Her name was on the bottom.  I recall her coming up to me in the hallway and wondering if I knew of a way she could have passed a student who missed 70 out of 92 days of instruction.  I had no answer then and I have no answer now.<br />Another educator told me of an alternative school that got around the dilemma of what to do with students who do not meet even diluted academic requirements.  They issue a no grades whatsoever policy that precludes all descriptors (including \\"Pass\\" or \\"Fail\\").  He is currently being considered for the Principalship of this institution and wanted to know what I thought about their anti-grading scheme.  I told him it was insane.  He agreed but noted that the salary was 70 grand a year.  I advised that he not mention the policy at all during his interview and then quickly abandon it once his contract was signed.  We will see whether or not he has the strength to do so.<br />Unfortunately, although it is not as clear cut as the two examples I cite, most children do grow up in Soft America.  It is a land in which they are molly-coddled and excuses are made for their every need and whimper.  Many adults are more concerned with injecting them with self-esteem rather than buoying them up with knowledge.  Who would have ever thought that the word \\"facts\\" would have the negative connotations it has today in educational circles?  Children are shielded from the Bizzaro world of Hard America until they graduate and then are thrown into the cauldron of competition.<br />I think Michael Barone has done America a great service by writing this book and I encourage everyone to read it.  There's absolutely nothing wonkish about it.  The issues are global and should appeal to most citizens- even if it makes the pens of a few bureaucrats run dry.nally witnessed several attempts of individuals to \\"Speak Truth to Squishiness\\" by bringing rigor into their classrooms and then observed the predicable punishments that were meted out to them in response.  <br />Shortly after I finished reading the text I told a teacher about it and she said, \\"Give me that book now!  I need it.\\"  The basis for her interest may have stemmed from her name appearing on a school wide memo ranking our teachers based on who passed the most students.  Her name was on the bottom.  I recall her coming up to me in the hallway and wondering if I knew of a way she could have passed a student who missed 70 out of 92 days of instruction.  I had no answer then and I have no answer now.<br />Another educator told me of an alternative school that got around the dilemma of what to do with students who do not meet even diluted academic requirements.  They issue a no grades whatsoever policy that precludes all descriptors (including \\"Pass\\" or \\"Fail\\").  He is currently being considered for the Principalship of this institution and wanted to know what I thought about their anti-grading scheme.  I told him it was insane.  He agreed but noted that the salary was 70 grand a year.  I advised that he not mention the policy at all during his interview and then quickly abandon it once his contract was signed.  We will see whether or not he has the strength to do so.  <br />Unfortunately, although it is not as clear cut as the two examples I cite, most children do grow up in Soft America.  It is a land in which they are molly-coddled and excuses are made for their every need and whimper.  Many adults are more concerned with injecting them with self-esteem rather than buoying them up with knowledge.  Who would have ever thought that the word \\"facts\\" would have the negative connotations it has today in educational circles?  Children are shielded from the Bizzaro world of Hard America until they graduate and then are thrown into the cauldron of competition.  <br />I think Michael Barone has done America a great service by writing this book and I encourage everyone to read it.  There's absolutely nothing wonkish about it.  The issues are global and should appeal to most citizens- even if it makes the pens of a few bureaucrats run dry.	2004-05-19
US	48486228	R3UN5WMKEBAXP4	0071381678	613409063	Emotional Vampires: Dealing With People Who Drain You Dry	Books	5	237	253	N	Y	The Grand Master of Disorder Speaks.	Gee, I work with two vampire personalities but I have to tell you that this book by Bernstein has to be, by far, the finest non-technical description of personality disorders that I've ever encountered.  It's for both the layman and the psychologist and, best of all, it's self-help.  I can't say enough about it.  It reads like deja vu for anyone who has ever suffered the attentions of self-promoting, self-worshipping, narcissistic psychopaths.  His advice is sound but they're so crazy you can't always use it--yet you will feel better after reading his work.	2004-04-23
US	48486228	R36Z6HDXBBCSOI	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	1	28	98	N	N	The Real David Brock.	Last weekend I finally had a chance to read David Brock's infamous Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative and was underwhelmed to say the least. Brock manages to be thoroughly dislikable while at the same time being completely banal. Unlike many of the other tell-all tales that have been published, it was nearly impossible to be sympathetic towards this particular narrator. It is hard to be empathic when a man slays and flails almost every friend that he ever made over the course of a dozen years working as a journalist at such renowned right-of-center institutions as The Washington Times, the Heritage Institute and The American Spectator. Charitably, he gets around to informing the reader about his attitude towards human relationships: \\"I lived in a mutual use society...I didn't really know what friendship was, nor was I ready to give it.\\" [p.315]. My feelings for this memoir can be summed up in words the author penned for another topic. It manifests \\"a moral obtuseness that, when I think back on it, still astounds me...\\" [150]<br />A better title for this book would have been \\"The Unbearable Lightness of Observation\\" or \\"Will Somebody Somewhere Please Accept me\\" or more realistically: \\"Blinded by Ambition.\\" David Brock, by virtue of his own description, was born a most ambitious young man whose biggest flaw appeared to an internal wiring that predisposed him to emotion-based decision making. His schoolboy autobiography \\"All About David\\" adumbrates the philosophy that he would adhere to for the rest of his life. Yes, after forty years, no better description is still possible of this man or his career.<br />Brock displays great insight when he says that while at The Washington Times he \\"had no deep understanding of conservative ideology.\\" [p.36] What was true then is true now. I would contend that he never had one ounce of conservatism in him to begin with. From early on he was an unlikely rightist. His first political hero was Bobby Kennedy and one of the first pieces of legislation he supported was the proposed ERA amendment. Further, the first presidential candidate that he ever voted for was Jimmy Carter.<br />The whole premise for the story is flawed as if he were really a conservative to begin with there would have been one piece at least, of the leftist, anti-liberal agenda rejected somewhere at some point in the book. Yet, he appears incapable of deviating even slightly from the line of the new party for which he has fallen in love. He proffers substantive evidence that the man who was once blinded by the right is now blinded by the left. His concluding statements are an example of the type of tripe that might be a part of an undergraduate's paper for a radical professor. Brock blathers Democratic positions that have no basis in reality. He wrote, \\"The new [Bush] administration's policies of tax cuts for the wealthy...\\"[p.361] The tax cuts of both 2001 and 2003 impact everyone who pays taxes and not just the wealthy. They do so in a ratio that is proportionate to how much one has paid in the first place- but why let the truth interfere with good yarn? He continues on the same page with an accusation that Bush is \\"slashing environmental protections...\\" Another emotion inspired canard. No protections were ever slashed. Clinton's poison pills about arsenic in the water and appliance regulations were never part of his administration and were signed on the eve of Bush's inauguration. Bush was right to discard them. No existing laws were ever changed. Then he finally says that Bush was \\"rolling back civil rights\\" which is another leftist confabulation. He never has or undoubtedly will ever do such a thing. As a matter of fact, Bush through his support of the Supreme Court cases regarding affirmative action, has come out in support of civil rights legislation as if affirmative action is found to be unconstitutional it will ensure that citizens will not be discriminated against anymore based on their genderor race.<br />Brock is not content merely to go after Bush, he wants Ronald Reagan as well. He states that \\"the Reagan combination of tax cuts and deficit spending had wrecked the economy.\\"[p.247] No more fallacious words have ever been written. Tremendous economic growth and the stock market boom of 1982 to 2000 obviously disproves his statement that the economy was wrecked. Unemployment plunged, inflation disappeared, as did our deficit from the resulting revenues that increased productivity and growth created. Obviously, with statements like this, David Brock has mentally, in the words of that old Chris Farley skit, been \\"living in a van down by the river\\" since he reentered the den of the left.<br />Brock's ambition made the right his conduit for approval after he witnessed the endless tattered-shirt marching of the politically correct hordes at his college campus. That's not particularly surprising when one considers that he attended the University of California at Berkeley. According to Brock, he was so alienated by the PC totalitarians that he fled, as he always seems to do, to the side that was its diametric opposite. That is how we inherited him. [One only wishes that he had enrolled at Hillsdale.] Brock wants us to believe that over the course of many encounters and friendships he eventually became blinded by right. Most likely, David Brock is an opportunist and, as such, he, neither the right nor the left, has been the one done the blinding all along.<br />One must presume that Brock showed a prodigious amount of talent as a young political writer but I think that this form of writing is not the right vocation for him. The gloss of his observations make one believe that fashion or the gossip columns are a more suitable destination. He should address this by writing a dedication for his next edition, if there is one, in honor of the \\"wonderful trivial muse that has dominated my existence for almost a half-century.\\" That is in keeping with his confessional as it is plagued by superficial observations and trivial asides. We hear all about restaurants in the capitol and what his acquaintances abodes were adorned with, but why would any serious person even remotely care enough about such filler to make it an intrinsic part of an autobiographical work? I grew so tired of this E Television sensibility that I almost put the book down twice. We are informed that Sidney Blumenthal wore his suits quite stylishly and that a couple of people he knew often wore Hermes ties, as if the act of their wearing them encouraged judgment on our part. Now I concede that I am not the type of person who would even be admitted into the Calaveras County Jumping Frog jet set, but what the heck does it matter if someone wears a Hermes tie anyway? The book is thoroughly marred by endless minutiae about people who wear skirts but used to appear as tomboys and others who wear sloppy corduroy jackets. Who even remotely cares about this stuff?<br />While I read I could not but wonder how much this man could have learned if he had not been so obsessed with the jejune aspects of life. For a dozen years David Brock associated with some of the most gifted people in America but observing fashions, rather than thoughts, seemed to be his passion. His conservative days can be remembered by his habit of buying \\"Turbull & Asser shirts and switching from cigarettes to cigars\\" [p.91] and he then fondly recalled that a famous editor gave him \\"a compliment about a pale-blue spread-collar shirt I had bought with my mother's credit card at Neiman Marcus.\\" [p.25] With such thoughts on his mind it's no wonder his convictions were as deep as a kiddie pool purchased at a Wal-Mart in July.<br />A major focus of the book concerns his gay sexuality. He falls into the classic trap of believing that the world is divided into only two types of people. For Brock it is between those who are pro-gay and those who are anti-gay. At the end of the book he sees the liberals [anti-liberals-BC] as being the more compassionate and tolerant and that's why he begins worshipping them as his new deity. Well, they certainly advertise that they're diverse and tolerant so, when one considers Brock's shallowness, it becomes immensely surprising that he ever found his way to the conservative side in the first place.<br />Brock's take on the pro-gay/anti-gay issue is devoid of meaningful argument. Really, he offers no arguments whatsoever but is content to assert interior motives without the benefit of providing the reader evidence for his conclusions. At one point he says \\"I thought name-calling was cool.\\"[p.67] and this is obvious over the course of 365 tedious pages. He attacks practically everybody for being anti-gay or a racist (one imagines a member of the Blinded... editorial team flipping him diamond cuff links or designer handkerchiefs every time he made use of invective). In fine leftist fashion, Brock concludes that being anti-homosexual is an inherent part of being a Republican.confessional as it is plagued by superficial observations and trivial asides. We hear all about restaurants in the capitol and what his acquaintances abodes were adorned with, but why would any serious person even remotely care enough about such filler to make it an intrinsic part of an autobiographical work? I grew so tired of this E Television sensibility that I almost put the book down twice. We are informed that Sidney Blumenthal wore his suits quite stylishly and that a couple of people he knew often wore Hermes ties, as if the act of their wearing them encouraged judgment on our part. Now I concede that I am not the type of person who would even be admitted into the Calaveras County Jumping Frog jet set, but what the heck does it matter if someone wears a Hermes tie anyway? The book is thoroughly marred by endless minutiae about people who wear skirts but used to appear as tomboys and others who wear sloppy corduroy jackets. Who even remotely cares about this stuff?<br />While I read I could not but wonder how much this man could have learned if he had not been so obsessed with the jejune aspects of life. For a dozen years David Brock associated with some of the most gifted people in America but observing fashions, rather than thoughts, seemed to be his passion. His conservative days can be remembered by his habit of buying \\"Turbull & Asser shirts and switching from cigarettes to cigars\\" [p.91] and he then fondly recalled that a famous editor gave him \\"a compliment about a pale-blue spread-collar shirt I had bought with my mothers credit card at Neiman Marcus.\\" [p.25] With such thoughts on his mind its no wonder his convictions were as deep as a kiddie pool purchased at a Wal-Mart in July. <br />A major focus of the book concerns his gay sexuality. He falls into the classic trap of believing that the world is divided into only two types of people. For Brock it is between those who are pro-gay and those who are anti-gay. At the end of the book he sees the liberals [anti-liberals-BC] as being the more compassionate and tolerant and thats why he begins worshipping them as his new deity. Well, they certainly advertise that theyre diverse and tolerant so, when one considers Brocks shallowness, it becomes immensely surprising that he ever found his way to the conservative side in the first place.<br />Brocks take on the pro-gay/anti-gay issue is devoid of meaningful argument. Really, he offers no arguments whatsoever but is content to assert interior motives without the benefit of providing the reader evidence for his conclusions. At one point he says \\"I thought name-calling was cool.\\"[p.67] and this is obvious over the course of 365 tedious pages. He attacks practically everybody for being anti-gay or a racist (one imagines a member of the Blinded... editorial team flipping him diamond cuff links or designer handkerchiefs every time he made use of invective). In fine leftist fashion, Brock concludes that being anti-homosexual is an inherent part of being a Republican.	2004-03-29
