US	48509548	RDW9EMVKL3AWL	0865381143	343645799	The Storms of May: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Extraordinary Survivors	An idealistic young couple named Ruth and Mike Sullivan decide to run a group home for troubled teenagers. The home provides support for an ethnically diverse group of girls with troubled pasts while giving them the stability of a real home like an impromptu family. Although each of the girls has her share of problems, Ruth and Mike keep the home fairly stable until a mysterious girl named May Royale joins the house. She seems to have walked straight out of a Tennessee Williams' play with her complex past and emotionally tumultuous nature. Ruth and Mike suddenly find themselves challenged by problems they never could have anticipated.<br /><br />Edward Hower writes with incredible strength and frank language about people who live in the margins of society. The novel is narrated through Ruth's point of view. She comes from a privileged background and has a deep social awareness. However, she is still young (scarcely much older than some of the girls in the home) and finds herself tempted by May's very attractive and fascinating boyfriend Paco. As it turns out, Paco is revealed to be one of the most complex characters in the novel. He comes from a violent background having served time for his involvement in gang violence, but is trying to distance himself from this world and work rehabilitating drug-addicted children. The novel addresses contemporary racial and social issues with great awareness. Hower shows remarkable wisdom in his insights into human character. Their frailties, desires and passions are all played against each other in this rich and memorable story. With compassion and sincerity, the author writes about spousal relationships better than almost anyone else I've ever read. The novel also addresses the importance of art in all our lives. Hower deserves to be carefully read by a wide audience.	2005-05-25
US	48509548	R2BYIVXHH619GD	1400042429	501569971	Maps for Lost Lovers	Books	5	58	61	N	N	A Flag of a Deeper Colour	Maps for Lost Lovers takes place in 1997 and is set over the course of a year in an unnamed community in England with a large Muslim population. It's primary focus is a married couple, Shamas, a non-believer and Kaukab, his pious wife. There are many mysteries threaded throughout this beautifully written novel, but the central one focuses on the disappearance of Shamas' brother Jugnu and the woman he was living with, Chanda. The two were not married and therefore were perceived to be living in a state of sin according to Muslim belief. Chanda's two brothers have been accused of murdering the couple. Over the course of the year, the trial over their suspected murder unfolds and many hidden secrets of the community are brought to light. It's a story of great suspense, giving precious insight into a very closed community that is struggling to maintain the beliefs of the country they left and the religion which is in many ways antithetical to modern English life.<br /><br />It took Aslam over ten years to write this novel, working largely in solitude and subsisting on a very humble income. The beautifully wrought passages attest to the concentrated labour used to create them and the vast amount of time he spent with these characters shows in the penetrating insight he gives to their individual minds and hearts. The lyrical style of the novel which uses metaphor upon metaphor might at first be a distraction to the reader. However, this persistent way of likening one thing to another reflects the attitudes of people in this community who persistently compare things in England to their home country. It's a device by the author to show how they are in some ways unable to see things in England as they really are. One of the most remarkable things about this novel is the shocking, extremely violent reactions by the Muslim community used to condemn some of the characters' actions. Aslam based all these events on real reported incidents. He also depicts the extremely intolerant and racist attitudes of non-Muslims to this community of immigrants. However, at the same time the author shows how deeply compassionate members of the community are to each other and the difficult struggle they experience trying to maintain their beliefs in opposition to the more extreme Muslim behaviour some of them disapprove of. Aslam has spoken about how moderate Muslim's need to speak up in today's world and dispel the popular Western view that all people of this religion are dangerous extremists. This rich, entertaining and poignant novel is a testament to that struggle.ant and racist attitudes of non-Muslims to this community of immigrants. However, at the same time the author shows how deeply compassionate members of the community are to each other and the difficult struggle they experience trying to maintain their beliefs in opposition to the more extreme Muslim behaviour some of them disapprove of. Aslam has spoken about how moderate Muslim's need to speak up in today's world and dispel the popular Western view that all people of this religion are dangerous extremists. This rich, entertaining and poignant novel is a testament to that struggle.  <br />	2005-05-18
US	48509548	R2UYLPRFSXRE9V	0151011176	354022357	Lighthousekeeping	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Her Gift of Life	Silver is a girl born completely by chance. Her mother had a brief encounter with a sailor, leaving the penniless woman to raise the baby girl in a crooked house tipping into the sea. The house was so slanted that the family dog's legs grew irregularly and they couldn't eat any food that would roll away. Eventually Silver is taken by a hilariously prudish woman named Miss Pinch (a curiously Dickensian touch from an author who has spoken so condescendingly about the work of Sarah Waters) to live with a lighthouse keeper named Pew. From Pew she learns the art of story telling and consequently a way of finding value in her life. Because of her origins and social status Silver is viewed by people like Miss Pinch as worthless or an accident. Through the medium of story telling Silver is able to forge for herself an identity more true than any documented reality.<br /><br />Interwoven with the tale of the novel's central character Silver, is the story of a priest named Babel Dark. He is a fascinatingly divided character, something Winterson has Robert Louise Stevenson cement in English literature. As always, the author's surreal nature of story telling melds with philosophical insights which have the ability to really turn our world upside down. Stunningly beautiful passages add depth to wonderfully quirky tales. Winterson always holds up the importance of storytelling in a way that is ceaselessly inventive and inspiring and makes you want to read on.	2005-04-04
US	48509548	R3E1CZXTGRQJGP	0060541490	451528647	Sexy	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Oates Greatest Young Adults Novel Thus Far	Unflinchingly forging into new territory, Joyce Carol Oates has written a novel delving into the mind of an adolescent boy whose potent sexual appeal is only just emerging. The author's first two novels for young adults primarily focused on the lives of unpopular, strong-willed teenage girls. In this novel she writes about a character named Darren who is popular, athletic and (to his confusion) attractive. The story focuses on an encounter Darren has with one of his teachers named Mr Tracy. A group of Darren's friends choose to use this teacher as a scapegoat to divert attention away from their own misconduct. The hapless boy is put under enormous pressure to speak out against his teacher and is forced to make a serious choice.<br /><br />With remarkable subtlety, Oates depicts this teenage boy's evolving consciousness. You follow how he suddenly becomes aware of himself as a physical presence in the world. The author expresses in the narrative the way that he is unable to articulate his own feelings and thoughts about people such as the girl he is romantically involved with and events such as the ride home with the teacher. Oates skilfully explores the male psyche in Sexy like she did in the accomplished novels What I Lived For and Wonderland, but in a much more compressed form. This novel would make a wonderful start for growing readers who can then continue on to delve into a rich range of adult novels by the same author.	2005-02-22
US	48509548	R1S0VHOJ14Q0OX	0807072648	51006661	American Ghosts: A Memoir	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Can We Overcome Who We Were Born To Be?	David Plante is a serious and committed writer who has over the years produced thirteen novels. This is the second memoir he has published, the first being an account of his friendship with three charismatic, famous women. One of the greatest things Plante is able to do in his non-fiction is raise questions about the nature of our existence. In this book he traces the history of his family and ponders what affect their lives and beliefs have had on his own character. He grew up in a strong French-Canadian Catholic community in Providence. There are moments he recounts in his childhood which he believes either contributed to who he became or were indications of a personality which was there from the start. Like many writers, when Plante grew to be a teenager he moved far away from his home in an attempt to almost completely reinvent himself by travelling and studying throughout Europe. Interestingly it was the aimless explorations and chance meetings which seem to have impacted him the most during that formative period. But while he grew older and became more established, questions about his origins became more urgent to him. No matter how much he traces his father's wilfully obscured Native American history or his mother's far reaching French origins, the factors which contribute to Plante's unique identity remain opaque. His inquiry into essential questions about his wavering beliefs and family background truly relate to the way each of our individual religious, social and familial backgrounds impact who we are and our quest to overcome our origins.	2005-01-05
US	48509548	R2ZDYWZSYIG48F	0060722282	265537154	The Falls: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Buried Secrets and Individual Responsibility	At the beginning of this novel we are introduced to Ariah Erskine who is an intensely creative and complex individual. She is nonetheless very naive and is led into a marriage because she thinks it will enhance her own self worth. When the marriage ends abruptly during the couple's honeymoon to Niagara Falls in the first few pages of this novel she suddenly becomes a hapless victim and she believes herself to be damned. In actuality the reason for her husband's death has nothing to do with her personally, yet the guilt is still affixed to her and she feels that she has failed him. The shadow of that naive personality is turned into a local legend known as \\"The Widow Bride of the Falls\\". But the spirited individual remains and she is in a sense brought back to life by a charismatic, well-known member of the community called Dirk Burnaby. The two decide to forge a life for themselves despite Ariah's humble background and Dirk's influential, wealthy family. Although they are successful at first, submerged problems well up causing difficulties. When Dirk becomes involved with an enormously contentious community problem, it threatens the safety of their beloved family and extremely difficult choices need to be made. A powerful question arises: Where does personal sacrifice end in the pursuit of justice?<br /><br />Oates used the historical Love Canal incident as a reference point in this novel. If you aren't already familiar with the case, it's useful to know that the Love Canal was a neighborhood near the city of Niagara Falls that was built upon a severely polluted landfill. The families who lived in this community suffered terribly for almost three decades because they were lied to from officials, could not afford to move away and had their cases dismissed by the justice system. Only in 1978 were they able to receive some compensation for their suffering. By this point, many of the victims were dead or had contracted severely debilitating medical conditions. Oates' fictional character Dick Burnaby becomes heavily involved in the controversy surrounding this case. Rather than giving us a full picture of the victims, Oates shows us someone outside the event who has a choice to make a real difference in helping to change it. He is even someone who could be said to have been implicated in the continuation of this disaster through his business associations. With tremendous power and stamina, the author writes in this novel about the ways in which a sense of social responsibility can at times supersede the loyalty one feels to his or her own family, friends and colleagues. Oates wrote a similarly themed novel called Do With Me What You Will which has now been sadly forgotten and I would suggest that anyone who enjoys this novel try to obtain a copy of it. She is able to write with razor sharpness about the complex way our lives become entangled with events we may feel morally ambivalent toward. For all the dark aspects of life that this powerful novel portrays, the will of the individual is shown to dynamically stand in opposition to the inhuman acts of society. The greatest thing this tremendous writer has been able to do throughout her prestigious body of work is give voice to disparate people who have been rendered voiceless. As Oates said in her 1970 National Book Award Acceptance speech \\"The use of language is all we have to pit against death and silence.\\" This novel speaks far further than the characters and events it contains.fictional character Dick Burnaby becomes heavily involved in the controversy surrounding this case. Rather than giving us a full picture of the victims, Oates shows us someone outside the event who has a choice to make a real difference in helping to change it. He is even someone who could be said to have been implicated in the continuation of this disaster through his business associations. With tremendous power and stamina, the author writes in this novel about the ways in which a sense of social responsibility can at times supersede the loyalty one feels to his or her own family, friends and colleagues. Oates wrote a similarly themed novel called Do With Me What You Will which has now been sadly forgotten and I would suggest that anyone who enjoys this novel try to obtain a copy of it. She is able to write with razor sharpness about the complex way our lives become entangled with events we may feel morally ambivalent toward. For all the dark aspects of life that this powerful novel portrays, the will of the individual is shown to dynamically stand in opposition to the inhuman acts of society. The greatest thing this tremendous writer has been able to do throughout her prestigious body of work is give voice to disparate people who have been rendered voiceless. As Oates said in her 1970 National Book Award Acceptance speech \\"The use of language is all we have to pit against death and silence.\\" This novel speaks far further than the characters and events it contains.  <br />	2004-09-14
US	48509548	R1JLHIIU0G775W	1565123875	765418048	Purple Hibiscus	Books	5	71	75	N	N	An Extremely Engaging First Novel	Purple Hibiscus is a vivid, beautifully written novel about a 14 year-old girl named Kambili growing up in a stifling Catholic household in Nigeria.  The story pairs the collapse of the family's strong patriarch who frequently physically abuses his family alongside with the deterioration of the Nigerian society's infrastructure as it undergoes a military coup. Kambili is a very sheltered child who is incredibly insecure because of the repressive regimen her father forces her to follow. Yet, she is looked down upon by her peers and initially scorned by her outspoken cousin because she is viewed as a privileged snob.  When she visits her aunt and cousins she learns how to assert herself and become a more independent individual.<br /><br />Adichie presents you with a portrait of domestic violence very much from the inside. We see the father through Kambili's eyes as a pillar of the community and someone she genuinely loves. Therefore the abuse he administers is seen only as a gesture of love for her own good. It's only when Kambili is pulled out of this horrific environment that she is able to see how wrong it is and understand that this abuse is not normal. While this novel really involves you in the struggles of its characters, it also shows you a lot about the complex political and religious struggles occurring in Nigeria. It's one of those wonderful stories that can broaden your perspective while being incredibly emotionally engaging. This is an amazing first novel from such a young writer and I hope she will continue to write many more books with as much heart and soul as Purple Hibiscus.	2004-09-10
US	48509548	RFS4E0UA9CL7G	0385507763	631255312	Love in Idleness: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Beautifully Composed and Magical Escape	A group of American and British people on vacation travel to the idyllic Italian setting of Casa Luna, Cortona for a fortnight and find that their expectations about what will happen are totally reversed. Craig introduces a large cast of characters who we get to know intimately over the course of the novel due to her skill at delicately portraying the psychological state of each one. She shows how Daniel's noble sensibility is at odds with his mother Betty's more ambitious goals for him. The author is able to beautifully conjure her characters sometimes in a single terse, meaningful line such as \\"Betty did not so much converse as hand down a smaller tablet of stone.\\" Craig also creates the intensely fresh perspective of the young in the three children showing how their magical world melds with the vibrant physical landscape of the Italian countryside. Those that are familiar with Craig's earlier work will recognize Ivo as the mischievous critic who loves to be hated from A Vicious Circle. But even with this superficially unlikeable man, the author's meaningful phrases hint at an underlying insecurity giving his character a lot of depth. Over the course of the vacation the characters find themselves paired with the ones they could never admit to really desiring. All it takes is the madness of summer and a little fairy magic.<br /><br />This is a thoroughly engaging and funny novel that is an up to date revisioning of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream. Although the tone of the novel maintains a comic air, Craig doesn't shy from tackling difficult social issues such as racism, sexuality and our culture's obsession with beauty. These problems are woven into the characters lives making them a fully-realized, modern and recognizable group of people. Most importantly, this book ponders the question of love in a way that is not trite or sentimental. Rather it shows the maddening confusion of it, the heart-stopping joy it brings and how it pulls us in the most unexpected ways.ected ways. <br /> <br />	2004-07-31
US	48509548	RCP8ZTU658SI6	0060565519	979137544	Take Me, Take Me with You: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Masterful Psychological Thriller	Lara Quade is a Princeton research assistant who one day receives an anonymous invitation to a concert. From here she sets out to rediscover the truth about her family and past that she had previously tried to abandon. A strange accident in Lara's youth rests at the center of the novel. The story alternates between past and present, piecing the violent circumstances of Lara's upbringing together while also relating the impulsive and dangerous journey she embarks upon after her mentor and superior is attacked. The self-destructive impulse that reduced her mother to a near invalid threatens to overcome Lara as well.<br />Lara has a deeply introverted personality that makes her virtually friendless and yearning for the approval of people she deems superior. One of the central conflicts she has in re-examining her past is her sense of class difference. She views the lower class community from which she came with a certain contempt, but she also abhors the cultured people of money she encounters so frequently in the affluent community of Princeton. The pretension of her scholastic endeavors even leads her to walk away from a discussion laughing in the academics faces. She went there determined to redefine herself (even giving herself a new name) but finds that she is trapped in a doll like image of the neglected girl who lost her family.<br />Like the character of Ghislaine from Angela Carter's first novel Shadow Dance, Lara is similarly scarred and drawn toward degradation for the sake of love she never fully receives. She is fiercely intelligent and bravely faces her past unlike her brother Ryan who has determined to only embrace the future. In a haunting way, the past is shown to mirror the present. For instance, the description of a dribble of spit Lara sees on her mother's face is repeated in how she sees herself when waking after passing out on a strange bed. Clues relating to the truth of what happened in Lara's childhood are scattered throughout the novel so that series of events hit the reader like premonitions turning it into a tense psychological adventure. It is also a deeply moving novel about a family that is broken apart through violence and jealousy. The sense of desperate isolation it conveys is chilling.series of events hit the reader like premonitions turning it into a tense psychological adventure. It is also a deeply moving novel about a family that is broken apart through violence and jealousy. The sense of desperate isolation it conveys is chilling.	2004-04-28
US	48509548	R10Q8MQZ47VILF	0060592885	682371142	I Am No One You Know: Stories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Past Revision	In this new story collection by Joyce Carol Oates, she invokes a wide range of voices from children to adults, both male and female. The content is sometimes horrifically violent like in `The Girl with the Blackened Eye' where a woman recalls her experience being kidnapped and at other times the tone of the stories is incredibly tender and gentle like in `Three Girls' where two young students follow and protect a disguised Marilyn Monroe around the famous Strand Used Book store. What is striking about this arrangement of stories is the very personal feel they all contain with the sense that many of the characters are looking back and trying to decipher crucial moments when their destinies changed.<br /><br />A mournful feeling of regret runs through this collection. For instance, when using a complex narrator's voice in the story `Me &amp; Wolfie, 1979' (probably the most experimental and difficult story in the collection) the protagonist states, \\"For every hurt dealt to her son she loved, Me dealt herself a dozen.\\" In many cases a decision on the part of one person has led to an irresolvable split in that person's family like in `Curly Red' where a girl chooses to reveal a family secret leading to her own isolation. One of Oates' greatest abilities is to seek out injustice and expose it by giving a voice to those who are silenced. But she is not one to shy from the complexities of certain situations by recognizing the levels of conscious participation on all sides or the wilful self deceit some people impose upon themselves. In `The Deaths: An Elegy' a woman chooses to confuse the facts of her parents' relationship and strikes out against her brother who probably saved her life.  What is interesting about the retrospective sense many of the stories contain is how facts are confused and the way family members recall events differently from others like in `Happiness' where two sisters disagree over what they saw one day or `Fire' where a brother breaks the idealized vision his sister keeps of their deceased father.<br />There is a feeling that the individuals in this collection are desperately trying to hold on to a certain vision of themselves which the events of the world are trying to take from them. All the diverse stories in this collection are artfully arranged to convey a wide range of this emotion. One of the first stories `In Hiding' shows a poet who is trying to protect herself from intrusion by living a sheltered life. But by depicting the experiences of one individual in the events of 9/11the final eerie story `The Mutants' shows that sometimes the larger events of the world will force themselves into your life and change you - for better or worse.sion his sister keeps of their deceased father. <br />There is a feeling that the individuals in this collection are desperately trying to hold on to a certain vision of themselves which the events of the world are trying to take from them. All the diverse stories in this collection are artfully arranged to convey a wide range of this emotion. One of the first stories `In Hiding' shows a poet who is trying to protect herself from intrusion by living a sheltered life. But by depicting the experiences of one individual in the events of 9/11the final eerie story `The Mutants' shows that sometimes the larger events of the world will force themselves into your life and change you - for better or worse.	2004-04-16
US	48509548	R3CRYBROUCB6E2	0385502621	121774244	In a Dark Wood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Light and Dark	Benedick Hunter is having what at first appears to be a middle-aged crisis. He's an actor who hasn't had any steady work recently. His wife is divorcing him and he bickers constantly with his pompous father. He finds little joy from taking care of his imaginative, but demanding young children. Benedick lives off from the small amount of royalties from his mother's children's books. After rediscovering one of these collection of fairy tales he begins reading the stories for deeper personal meanings. He's compelled to follow a trail of his mother's old friends who are scattered over Britain and America like a trail of breadcrumbs. The mysteries contained in her subversive fables lead him to his mother's childhood home and the truth about his family that has been hidden from him. Gradually he learns that his alienation from society and erratic behaviour has its roots in a mental illness. But he has to descend into the darkest psychological depths in order to learn how to live with this disorder.<br />In this beautiful and moving novel, Craig manages to write very convincingly about a man's perspective of the world. Benedick's personal aspirations are clouded by despair in a way that prevents him from also appreciating all the loving people he has in his life. Unfortunately, he has also inherited a lot of pain and bitterness from his mother's life, many of the facts of which have been hidden from him. We are also given many funny details about the cultural differences between America and England. What the author also does so extraordinarily well is show a blend of light and dark in this central character's psychology. He does a number of detestable things. Yet we are given insight into them and understand they are acts of desperation brought about through a mental illness he can`t control. Craig pays tribute to the important and complex work of Angela Carter who was dubbed the Fairy Godmother of British fiction. She does this by insisting that fairy tales have a much deeper meaning than what appears on the surface. The raucous emotions and terrible violence they depict just may be a greater reflection of reality than we care to admit. The psychological demons which hound many people are indeed more terrifying than the creatures who lurk in the dark woods of fairy tales. By blending the story of Benedick's travels with a number of creative fairy tales, Craig gives us a lot of insight into this while producing an enthralling story.eper meaning than what appears on the surface. The raucous emotions and terrible violence they depict just may be a greater reflection of reality than we care to admit. The psychological demons which hound many people are indeed more terrifying than the creatures who lurk in the dark woods of fairy tales. By blending the story of Benedick's travels with a number of creative fairy tales, Craig gives us a lot of insight into this while producing an enthralling story.	2004-02-11
US	48509548	R17NI581J7TFXT	0802117643	228454813	The Good Doctor	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Youthful Optimism vs Middle Aged Cynicism	Galgut's novel evokes the stark landscape of rural post-apartheid South Africa. But do not let the daunting subject matter scare you away. This is a highly accessible novel written in simple, but eloquent prose. It's told from the point of view of middle-aged Frank Eloff who is an under-achieving doctor that has spent many years of his life at a remote hospital waiting to be promoted. He begins the tale when an enthusiastic young doctor named Laurence joins the hospital as part of a required year of training. The two are required to share a room. A uncomfortable friendship blossoms. Laurence is determined to use his time at the hospital to make some radical changes as part of the new South Africa he welcomes. Frank however isn't so certain that the old South Africa has entirely left. Through the novel they are confronted by unavoidable people and problems from the past which slow the progress Laurence so ardently desires.<br />It's a literary work that contemplates the dilemma of the new South Africa with the same brevity as Gordimer's None to Accompany Me and Coetzee's Disgrace. Apart from the political connotations, this novel is a powerful and haunting tale about friendship and a man coming to terms with his middle age. It echoes the disturbing quality of Ibsen's Ghosts through its repetition of sexual betrayal. Toward the end of Frank's narrative, his accounts become more hallucinatory and his honesty becomes uncertain. A tremendous guilt overshadows his narrative. There is a desire to shake the complacency of the environment, yet any attempt at progress instantly proves futile. This is a very melancholy novel, but one of captivating beauty and intriguing mystery.	2004-01-20
US	48509548	RNPVBKHWFSVDH	0316740845	887528533	You Are Here: A Memoir of Arrival	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A True and Funny Memoir	For many young gay men who live in disparate communities around the country, New York City is the golden promise land that they strive to merge into once age and finances allow. The tale of an obscure individual arriving in the city with nothing and achieving fame beyond his wildest dreams has become an American myth. Wesley Gibson has written his own tale of travelling to the famous city where he hopes to establish himself as a writer. He lives under the threat that if he doesn't make it he will have to return to his hometown as a failure.<br />He casts the physical landscape of the city under the terms of a gay sensibility. For instance, he remarks: \\"Central Park is Martha, as in George and Martha, braying at you, `I do not bray.' It's too much of muchness.\\" In this redefinition of the city he marks it as his own territory. It's also a clever way for the author to introduce his environment as a character itself. While the tone of the book remains that of a memoir, the people Gibson encounters are transformed into eccentric characters that stand alongside the colourful caricatures of Dickens' fictional world. In fact by the end he remarks that he feels a growing kinship to one of Dickens' greatest tragic females. This fictional cast to his life is borne out of a self-consciousness playfulness that comes through in his thought process, usually spurred on by morbid premonitions of doom. After hardly speaking to his new roommate he is on the phone to a close friend fearing that he's moved in with an axe murderer. Dramatic events are conceived in his mind and then the reality of the city asserts itself as stranger than anything this writer could have imagined.<br />Gibson describes the typical life of a writer, where little actual writing is accomplished, and a mass of experience is acquired. To make ends meet he tries different jobs and finds a room through a gay housing agency. These lead to hilarious encounters which highlight the absurdities of life like in the best writing of David Sedaris. However, much of the book is also concerned with the serious problems Gibson encounters such as depression, AIDS and isolation. He finds that having abandoned the threatening homophobic environment of his home in Virginia, the liberal big city does little to comfort this gay man. His first potential romantic encounter turns out to be a hustler looking for money and a place to crash for the night. A potential roommate with a large collection of extremely anatomically correct GI Joe figures proclaims that Gibson isn't a normal gay man. This lingering resentment of being outcast for not conforming to a certain image of a gay man haunts the memoir. It leads me to believe that Gibson has a much bigger fictional work ahead of him.<br />Nevertheless, YOU ARE HERE remains a funny, thoughtful account that many people will no doubt identify with for it's witty observations of cosmopolitan life.t writing of David Sedaris. However, much of the book is also concerned with the serious problems Gibson encounters such as depression, AIDS and isolation. He finds that having abandoned the threatening homophobic environment of his home in Virginia, the liberal big city does little to comfort this gay man. His first potential romantic encounter turns out to be a hustler looking for money and a place to crash for the night. A potential roommate with a large collection of extremely anatomically correct GI Joe figures proclaims that Gibson isn't a normal gay man. This lingering resentment of being outcast for not conforming to a certain image of a gay man haunts the memoir. It leads me to believe that Gibson has a much bigger fictional work ahead of him.<br />Nevertheless, YOU ARE HERE remains a funny, thoughtful account that many people will no doubt identify with for it's witty observations of cosmopolitan life.	2004-01-16
US	48509548	R377R4VBQQJM4K	0060004843	272587061	Fanny: A Fiction	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Two Fannys	Edmund White has published a trilogy of novels in a mode he has termed \\"autofiction\\" and another novel heavily based upon his experiences with one of his lovers who died of AIDS. He is currently working on his autobiography and later this year a book called Original Youth: The Real Story of Edmund White's Youth by Keith Fleming will be published. Stephen Barber has also published a biography of White. This profuse amount of material focusing on White's life uses it to examine how gay culture has evolved through decades of gradual liberation. It is a tribute to the complex way a gay identity does not only encompass one life, but many.<br />White is also a skilful artist that is able to experiment in his narratives with different genres. Persistently, his focus is on particular lives and through them he excavates the ideologies of the time that impacted upon these people's lives. His new novel FANNY: A FICTION is on its surface a great departure from his earlier work, but when examined closely utilizes his greatest skills as a writer to tremendous success. It is a fictional biography of the cerebral Scottish pioneer Francis Wright who moved to America in the early 19th centuy to found a commune with the hope of dissolving slavery. It is narrated from the perspective of Francis Trollope who was a friend to Wright and a middle class women seeking to reverse the fortunes of her family as they sank into bankruptcy. She did so by publishing a non-fiction work titled Domestic Manners of the Americans which trashed the culture of the \\"New World\\". Given Wright's ecstatic love of America, this created a rift in the tempestuous friendship of the two which could never be healed. Trollope is writing this biography close to her own death, years after the death of Francis Wright. Still, the anger and resentment burns between these two revolutionary women.<br />FANNY: A FICTION feels like some amazing drag act with White dressed as Mrs. Trollope. It is an incredibly entertaining read with pages overflowing with tantalizing gossip and fascinating observations. It's also much more sophisticated than just that because it's composed with such a tight structure and uses an elegant style with luscious detail to convey the effect of the early 1800s. What is does best is to examine how the details of a person's life work within the context of when they lived. While this novel includes almost none of the gay content White is famous for, it does point out the aching divisions that can exist within a minority group seeking equality. The abolitionist movement was long and complex with many disagreements about how the end of slavery should be achieved. From the vantage point of history it is easy to forget how groups that struggle for equality are inevitably made of individuals whose objectives may greatly differ. It can even inspire hatred between those who should be allies. Now that the movement for gay liberation has progressed this far with many of it's pioneers buried, it may be useful to think back upon some of the divisions within it and lay some ghosts to rest. White's new novel is a strong example of how this re-examination of history is not only necessary, but urgent.d with pages overflowing with tantalizing gossip and fascinating observations. It's also much more sophisticated than just that because it's composed with such a tight structure and uses an elegant style with luscious detail to convey the effect of the early 1800s. What is does best is to examine how the details of a person's life work within the context of when they lived. While this novel includes almost none of the gay content White is famous for, it does point out the aching divisions that can exist within a minority group seeking equality. The abolitionist movement was long and complex with many disagreements about how the end of slavery should be achieved. From the vantage point of history it is easy to forget how groups that struggle for equality are inevitably made of individuals whose objectives may greatly differ. It can even inspire hatred between those who should be allies. Now that the movement for gay liberation has progressed this far with many of it's pioneers buried, it may be useful to think back upon some of the divisions within it and lay some ghosts to rest. White's new novel is a strong example of how this re-examination of history is not only necessary, but urgent.	2003-11-12
US	48509548	R6H37XJCA4P9I	0375414983	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Finding the Real Amidst Words	Following from Carey's hugely successful True History of the Kelly Gang, the author plucks another charismatic figure from history to reform in his fiction. This time he has taken the Ern Malley hoax and rewritten it using a bounty of sumptuous detail. In the 1940s a couple of writers sought to play a joke on the surrealist movement of the time. Their hoax got out of hand. They composed poetry using a mixture of their own original work, Shakespeare, a rhyming dictionary and a US army report. However, it was taken seriously, published and then caused a scandal because the content of the work was considered indecent. In many ways the editor who first received the work considered that the fake poet really did come to life. Stemming from this thought, Carey creates the story of Christopher Chubb who similarly sets up a literary hoax. This time, the fictional poet really does come to life.<br />The narrator of My Life is a Fake is the English poetry editor Sarah Wode-Douglass. She travels to Kuala Lumpur on the invitation of her acquaintance, the poet John Slater, with whom she has a long and complicated past. By accident she meets Chubb who is working in a bicycle repair shop. He gives her a glimpse of a poem by the poet he created named McCorkle. Sarah is desperate to retrieve this poet's work to make her own claim to fame. However, first she must hear the whole gruesome story behind it. It is a complicated affair leading Sarah and the reader to wonder what is real and what is fake. McCorkle comes to life and discredits Chubb's own life. Not only is Chubb's past revealed, but through conversations Slater Sarah's own past is examined. Another fake is revealed.<br />Carey does a magnificent job at evoking the environment of Kuala Lumpur in this time period. He creates a thrilling story despite its complicated plot. As the story progresses it becomes confusing who exactly is narrating the story. This fight to be heard seems to be the point because the spotlight is the object of desire for which the characters' manic ambition is set. Lies are the fuel used to gain entry into it. Each character struggles to make their lies sound the most convincing. It is the reader's delightful job to sift through for the truth.ject of desire for which the characters' manic ambition is set. Lies are the fuel used to gain entry into it. Each character struggles to make their lies sound the most convincing. It is the reader's delightful job to sift through for the truth.	2003-11-02
US	48509548	R19OOZGGI9Q8MS	0670031305	183103177	Elizabeth Costello	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Portrait of the Famous Artist	Elizabeth Costello is a famous Australian writer who spends much of her later years travelling the world and giving lectures. Like many famous people Costello has an uncomfortable relationship with her fame. At times she simply goes through the motions, remaining disconnected from her speeches and satisfying many of her listeners. However, on many occasions sited throughout this novel she spontaneously decides to speak about something she actually believes in. The results are usually unpopular thoughts that her audience has no interest in. Costello is trying to sort through her past while coming to conclusions about the meaning of life. Her strained relationships with her children and sister leave her a highly isolated individual grappling with her battered psyche. Despite the unpopularity of her recent ideas, her fame rests securely in a novel she wrote many years ago that expands on the fictional life of James Joyce's Molly Bloom.<br />Coetzee has done something both astonishing and baffling with this novel. At the back of the book he lists his acknowledgements. The truth is that substantial amounts of this novel are lectures that Coetzee himself has previously given and/or published before. As the novel progresses these lectures are integrated less into the story until the final short section which seems to hang very precariously upon the end of the novel and bears no obvious relation to the story. Rather than give us just a straightforward critique of literary fame integrated into his story, Coetzee also mocks how novels are traditionally constructed by writing what amounts to very little story to link these disconnected works. This isn't to say that it makes a bad novel. On the contrary, the story is very effective. I only longed to hear more about Elizabeth. The lectures are incredibly interesting. They focus on a range of subjects from the rights of animals to the meaning of representing evil in literature. We are given the voice of the artist who is uncertain about his creations and wary of the fame they have brought him, something that the majority of readers don't normally want to hear.  Coetzee is able to make this compelling with his masterful use of language and complex ideas. No doubt Coetzee's uncomfortable relationship to his literary fame has only been strained further having recently won the Nobel Prize. I wonder if he had been writing this novel a little later whether he would have also included the speech he delivered at that ceremony. While this is a fascinating work, I would suggest that if you are approaching Coetzee's work for the first time this strange, short and brilliant novel isn't the best thing to begin with. You might want to start reading some of his earlier and more straightforward novels like the brilliant Disgrace or Age of Iron.in about his creations and wary of the fame they have brought him, something that the majority of readers don't normally want to hear.  Coetzee is able to make this compelling with his masterful use of language and complex ideas. No doubt Coetzee's uncomfortable relationship to his literary fame has only been strained further having recently won the Nobel Prize. I wonder if he had been writing this novel a little later whether he would have also included the speech he delivered at that ceremony. While this is a fascinating work, I would suggest that if you are approaching Coetzee's work for the first time this strange, short and brilliant novel isn't the best thing to begin with. You might want to start reading some of his earlier and more straightforward novels like the brilliant Disgrace or Age of Iron.	2003-10-16
US	48509548	R1EAEADNKDQICV	0743243307	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tourists in their own Adopted Country	Brick Lane focuses on the story of Nazneen who moves to a Bangladesh community in London when she is still very young. Her marriage to a man named Chanu was arranged and she had very little choice in what she wanted to do with her life. Her destiny as a housewife and mother seems to have been set, but one of the main focuses of this novel is questioning whether the individual can have a hand in forming his or her own destiny. This age old question is artfully contemplated as we follow Nazneen through a great portion of her life while she gives birth three times and cares for her husband. Much of the novel seems to pass in the calm routines of her daily life. However, now and then we are given glimpses of Nazneen's rebellious thoughts which signify that she is anything but a passive character. When she meets an attractive radical named Karim we are aware that everything could easily change.<br />Brewing beneath this internal and domestic struggle is a conflict in the community of Bangladesh immigrants who are caught between assimilation to English life and reinventing a shared space where they can express their religion and culture. Many of these people came to England with the hope of earning a fortune and returning to their own country triumphantly wealthy. This rarely happens. Many have to renegotiate their sense of their own identities to survive in a culture that is alien and sometimes hostile toward them. Political groups form in the community. Things come to a crisis. It becomes evident that the community is not as threatened by groups outside of itself as by it's own internal divisions. The fact that many of these Bagladeshi people live their entire lives in England and still feel like outsiders is illuminated in a scene where Chanu takes his family on a hilarious outing to view London like tourists.<br />Monica Ali gives tremendous dignity to all her characters. While many may feel a natural sympathy with Nazneen as a captive to her own household, the idealistic Chanu is drawn as a very complex and loveable character. He may be stubborn, unappreciative and lost in his own dreams. But he's also shown to be very loving, honest and loyal to his family. Throughout the entire novel Nazneen keeps in touch with her sister who lives a difficult life in Bangladesh. This gives a hint of the life she might have had if she had chosen not to obediently follow tradition and proceed with her arranged marriage. This novel is filled with humor and sorrow making it an extremely compulsive and delightful read. The familial struggles really transcend any national boundaries however formed they are by cultural traditions. Ali gives a truly universal story in a very specific setting.stic Chanu is drawn as a very complex and loveable character. He may be stubborn, unappreciative and lost in his own dreams. But he's also shown to be very loving, honest and loyal to his family. Throughout the entire novel Nazneen keeps in touch with her sister who lives a difficult life in Bangladesh. This gives a hint of the life she might have had if she had chosen not to obediently follow tradition and proceed with her arranged marriage. This novel is filled with humor and sorrow making it an extremely compulsive and delightful read. The familial struggles really transcend any national boundaries however formed they are by cultural traditions. Ali gives a truly universal story in a very specific setting.	2003-10-10
US	48509548	R3P06U8ZV3OR5L	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Noose is Tightening	Vernon is a typical American teenage boy living in Martirio, Texas. He spends a lot of time fantasizing about the panties of a particular girl. He suffers the abuse of dominant social groups at his high school. He struggles to maintain a sense of normality in his broken home. Only one day his friend Jesus reaches his breaking point and things get out of hand. Suddenly Vernon is caught in a maelstrom of controversy when the nation in its grief points a guilty finger. He must justify his innocence by wading through the media-hype determined to crucify him without the help of his friends and family who are caught up in their own banal problems. Vernon sets out on a surreal escape from America.<br />Pierre creates a highly original voice in this dark, funny and incredibly clever novel. The structure is somewhere between satire and a dream-like logic where Vernon stumbles upon a number of colorful characters that distract him from his goal. While Vernon himself isn't especially likeable, his commentary on America with all his clever twists of language is hilarious to read. Vernon and his mother have an uncomfortable but loving relationship. While on death row, Vernon's mother is more concerned about the delivery of a new almond toned refrigerator. Vernon's ongoing analysis of the relationship between mother and son is devastating. More than its political commentary, I think this novel makes a powerful statement about familial relations. There has been a lot of attention paid recently to gun control and high school massacres. Pierre manages to make a moving statement about American values using the voice of a decidedly average boy caught in extraordinary circumstances. This isn't a cynical treatise. For all it's bitterness, Vernon God Little has a lot of hope.	2003-10-09
US	48509548	R24MIZ9P6LPGF6	0805073337	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Romance and a Passionate Friend	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal is narrated by a late middle-aged teacher named Barbara. She has decided to write an account of her friendship with her former colleague Sheba in the hope of clarifying the events which led to Sheba's dismissal from their school. Sheba is a new pottery teacher who has been married for a long time with two children. Over the course of her first year teaching she strikes up an intimate friendship with a 15 year-old pupil named Connolly. The student's interest in learning is very welcome as Sheba's success with the rest of the students is minimal. Sheba's optimism about a student who actually cares about learning is quickly confused with feelings of lust. The two have an affair which becomes public and leads to Sheba's ultimate humiliation and isolation from everyone except the ever devoted Barbara.<br />Although Barbara begins the novel professing to write about her friend Sheba, the narrative is gradually subsumed with details of Barbara's life. She is an extremely solitary individual prone to making sharp judgements about people. Her last close friendship ended abruptly. We can only infer that the reason for this was because Barbara became far too attached. Hoping to become the objective recorder of Sheba's plight, Barbara is revealed to be anything but an innocent bystander. Late in the novel Sheba gets a hold of these \\"notes\\" written by Barbara and denounces it all as lies calling into question the validity of Barbara`s already suspect account. This tremendous novel was written with great subtlety and yields a fascinating plot fuelled by passion. It doesn't condone or condemn the legally inappropriate student-teacher relationship which takes place. Instead it illuminates the complexities involved where the moral line is blurred while making powerful statements about the nature of lust and obsession.	2003-10-08
US	48509548	RAR4KI42HWUS6	0954130324	479538690	Astonishing Splashes of Colour	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Intensely Colored Emotions	Astonishing Splashes of Colour, Clare Morrall's first published novel, takes its title from a description of Peter Pan's Neverland. It follows the life of an eccentric Birmingham woman who in a sense never has grown up. She is impulsive, doesn't follow conventional daily time tables and can be rather mischievous. But like a child she is someone you have an immediate affection for if only, for no other reason, the purity of her response to the world. It is revealed that Kitty reacts this way because of family tragedies that have impaired her ability to act rationally and develop a secure sense of self. She lives a kind of improvised life reviewing children's books, occasionally visiting her husband who lives in the apartment next door and fostering a strange obsession for her nieces as well as other children. The remote nature of her family relations makes it all too clear why this woman maintains a childish need for love and attention.<br />The great strength of this novel is the strong personality of the protagonist as she relates her tale in a  barely chronological sequence (which suits her jumbled state of consciousness). We follow her mood swings which switch dramatically from joy to deep depression. These are illuminated by the way she views people that emanate certain colors in accordance with her emotions. She can be at one time horribly remote and at another time excruciatingly too personal. The plot quickly gains speed as the novel progresses revealing startling details about Kitty`s past. It's to the author's credit that a seemingly innocent journey to the sea side can take on such dark undertones. We feel simultaneously sympathetic and horrified with Kitty for embarking on this impetuous journey. For all this novel's local flavor, it conveys universal truths about the bonds of family, the need for love and the subsistence of childhood innocence into adulthood.	2003-10-06
US	48509548	R2KZ12WLGUHTGP	0060531061	45935744	The Tattooed Girl: A Novel (Oates, Joyce Carol)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	The Dangers of Our Unspoken Reality	After September 11, 2001 many authors felt it necessary to respond in some way. But how? Joyce Carol Oates has chosen to write a novel, not about that historical event specifically, but about the nature of hate and evil. She chooses to concentrate this exploration in the intimate environment of a celebrated, reclusive writer named Joshua Seigl. He has reached a point in his life where he realises that he can no longer block the world out and needs human company. Searching for an assistant to help him organize his enormous body of work and attend to the menial chores of his large house, he encounters a drifter who calls herself Alma. Her body is covered in what may be scars, birthmarks or tattoos. Alma uses these mysterious marks on her body to fashion a personality for herself which can confront the uglier aspects of the world that her more sensitive self cannot combat. After hiring her there follows a working relationship in the intimate space of Seigl's house that unearths hidden aspects of both their identities. The unspoken antithesis that exists between them is built through months of a seemingly harmonious working relationship. Yet the hatred that exists between them is brought physically to the forefront by the exaggerated attitudes of Alma's dangerous, anti-Semitic lover Dmitri and Seigl's mentally unbalanced, passionately upper class sister Jet. Inevitably, the central characters own prejudices must come to the forefront where a tacit understanding is formed amidst tragic events.<br />The ultimate question this novel raises is: what place does art have in illuminating the past and dispensing with hatred? The answer is not as simple as it appears because fiction does not deal in truth. One can't help feeling that Oates herself is attempting to work out her own feelings over the matter in a heated argument toward the end of the novel where Joshua defends his writing:<br />\\"`Alma, I think of myself as writing stories for others. In place of others who are dead, or mute. Who can't speak for themselves.'\\"<br />This argument for the exhumation of buried events and people is the same that Oates has used in interviews to explain why she has written some novels such as Black Water and Blonde that reinvent historical situations. Alma's rebuttal is that he pretends to know these things, but doesn't actually know. However, one could argue that the point of fictional writing isn't to get at the \\"truth\\" but to convey an \\"idea\\" and in these \\"ideas\\" we discover the reality that has been hidden. The Tattooed Girl isn't a political novel in any obvious allegorical manner. It does, however, haunt your thoughts in the way it illuminates the divisions (economical, social, racial and religious) between people to such a startlingly intense degree. It is an incredibly important book that ought to be read now.d, or mute. Who can't speak for themselves.'\\"<br />This argument for the exhumation of buried events and people is the same that Oates has used in interviews to explain why she has written some novels such as Black Water and Blonde that reinvent historical situations. Alma's rebuttal is that he pretends to know these things, but doesn't actually know. However, one could argue that the point of fictional writing isn't to get at the \\"truth\\" but to convey an \\"idea\\" and in these \\"ideas\\" we discover the reality that has been hidden. The Tattooed Girl isn't a political novel in any obvious allegorical manner. It does, however, haunt your thoughts in the way it illuminates the divisions (economical, social, racial and religious) between people to such a startlingly intense degree. It is an incredibly important book that ought to be read now.	2003-06-17
US	48509548	RB2D5EWAF8FIX	006001217X	32432343	Small Avalanches and Other Stories	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Adolescent Tales	Small Avalanches is a collection of short stories previously published by Joyce Carol Oates whose thematic link is that each centers around the life of an adolescent or teenage girl. The focus on this age group is appropriate for this extremely talented writer who has written in an incredible range of styles and voices, but has often focused on the lives of young woman especially in her novels such as Man Crazy, Blonde and I'll Take You There to name just a few.<br />Oates has said in an interview with Diane Rehm in 2002:<br />\\"I feel probably quintessentially very adolescent... I guess it's just that age of romance and yearning and some scepticism, sometimes a little bit of cynicism.\\"<br />The temperament of this age group that Oates so readily identifies with is something that the author is able to ingeniously capture in this series of tales. She shows in her female characters those intense feelings she marks as emblematic of this age group from a variety of perspectives.<br />Despite the close ages of all these girls there is a tremendous diversity of voice within the stories. They are sometimes vulnerable as the girls are primarily perceived or surprisingly self-aware which gives them the ability to manipulate their own situation. This occurs in some of the stories like Capricorn where a girl named Melanie meets a man on the internet who begins obsessively watching her play tennis and Small Avalanches where a girl walking home is followed by a suspicious looking man she nearly escapes. Some of the girls from these stories are timid, naive and orbit danger with curious innocence. In others, like Bad Girls where three close sisters invade the privacy of their mother's new boyfriend and The Model where a girl meets a man in the park who starts paying her large sums to pose for sketches, the girls are defensive to a militant degree. These diverse perspectives give a refreshing perspective when contemplating an age group so heavily stereotyped. Oates also uses multifarious structures to tell the girls' stories producing a wide range of possible meanings and giving a unique accent to their particular situations. Some take on a creepy gothic tone as in The Sky Blue Ball where a girl begins throwing a ball back and forth with a faceless participant over a wall and Haunted in which a mysterious violent woman appears to two curious girls who were searching a house they thought was empty. The most experimental structure Oates uses is in the story How I Contemplated the World from the Detroit House of Correction and Began My Life Over Again where you read a girl's notes for a school paper that descend into an intense disjointed personal deliberation about her past and future. However, all the stories are incredibly accessible to read while still challenging the reader to think complexly about growing up and the nature of identity. Each gives a deep focus on the consciousness of these girls and presents in some way a close perspective of their point of view. The stories also examine the process in which these girls become self conscious about how they are viewed by the rest of the world. It is an extremely emotional, varied and pleasurable read.arious structures to tell the girls' stories producing a wide range of possible meanings and giving a unique accent to their particular situations. Some take on a creepy gothic tone as in The Sky Blue Ball where a girl begins throwing a ball back and forth with a faceless participant over a wall and Haunted in which a mysterious violent woman appears to two curious girls who were searching a house they thought was empty. The most experimental structure Oates uses is in the story How I Contemplated the World from the Detroit House of Correction and Began My Life Over Again where you read a girl's notes for a school paper that descend into an intense disjointed personal deliberation about her past and future. However, all the stories are incredibly accessible to read while still challenging the reader to think complexly about growing up and the nature of identity. Each gives a deep focus on the consciousness of these girls and presents in some way a close perspective of their point of view. The stories also examine the process in which these girls become self conscious about how they are viewed by the rest of the world. It is an extremely emotional, varied and pleasurable read.	2003-04-02
US	48509548	R18S10YVK2J6GJ	0156007169	589056135	Best New American Voices 2003	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Wonderful Collection of New Writers	The Best New American Voices 2003 is a superb collection of stories from new writers working in graduate writing programs, arts organizations, workshops and summer conferences. The stories stretch over a wide variety of subjects representing areas from many different cultures. In \\"Good\\" a woman named Jeanie has a confusing affair with a man she meets while visiting her dying mother in the hospital. \\"The Storekeeper\\" tells the story of Hays, a sharpshooter performing an illegal mission in operation Desert Shield. The collection ends with \\"The Good Life\\" the story in this collection that dips the most into a surreal tone where a couple's new perfect home literally disintegrates before their eyes. They all focus intensely on a central character whose perspective largely dominates the story. As Joyce Carol Oates comments in her excellent introduction, \\"the dominant mode is psychological realism.\\" She goes on to suggest interesting ways in which writers emerge as writers and how the discipline of writing as a formal practice has swiftly developed in America. Many of the stories have a peculiar ability to haunt you with their distinctive tone as in the stories \\"Who is Beatrice,\\" where a woman is strangely disengaged from her life and wanders continuously through used book stores; \\"Chickensnake,\\" where snakes demonstrate their ravenous ability to consume things whole; and \\"Everything Must Go,\\" where a grieving wife is attempting to forge a new life for herself in New Hampshire with her son. The dead or dying play a major role in many of the stories. Nevertheless, the stories each feature many moments of uncommon humor and uplifting sentiments. This collection can serve as an introduction for people who want to be writers to understand the predominate contemporary \\"voice\\" and form of American fiction today. Equally, it is a treat for passionate readers to enjoy short glimpses of powerful new talent and learn names to watch for in the new releases section of bookstores. It is a wonderful and diverse collection of stories to own.s a wonderful and diverse collection of stories to own.	2003-02-13
US	48509548	R1V3OPA3P5EGZ3	1555834930	505526282	The Blue Lawn	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Making the Untold Ordinary	David is the star of his school's rugby team and he is famous throughout his New Zealand community for being so. But gradually he's discovered that rugby isn't something he's really interested and as is natural he needs to painfully pull himself out of that role in the community. At the same time he is doing this he meets Theo, a mysterious newcomer to the community. There is an unspoken bond between the boys from when they meet and a gradual friendship is created. Theo is extroverted, rebellious against adults and blunt in trying to bring issues to the forefront whilst concealing aspects of his identity and feelings he finds hard to vocalize. Green-thumbed David is the opposite, a good boy who always does as he should and gets along with adults, but who is able to insist on what he needs to make him happy. It's interesting the ways these boys are shown to come together from different parts of society to form a romantic relationship that neither of them fully understand. It is a relationship which proves through various tests to be a lasting one.<br />This novel is beautifully written. It never fully tells what the boys relationship is because it is in a slow process of formation. It isn't a representation of a typical coming out story or gay discovery, but a unique discovery of new sexual feelings for two sharply drawn individuals. It seems strange at times that for hormonal boys of their age there is no realisation throughout the narrative of their sexual feelings, but this is explained to be because they literally don't know what to do yet. The presence of Theo's grandmother sometimes distracts from the main story of the boy's budding relationship, though she is an interesting enough character that seems to be crying for a story in her own right. This is a very lovingly told, nice tale that explores how \\"normal\\" boys adjust to new aspects of their identity.	2002-11-27
US	48509548	R1AV7NN4YNMHR1	1566492254	458573740	Edinburgh	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An Ingeniously Conceived Modern Myth	Alexander Chee's first novel is the tale of a demon fox who is finally captured. Aphias Zee or Fee is an American of Korean and Scottish descent. In early age Fee's grandfather tells him the tale of Lady Tammamo, a fox who fell in love and, after being ridiculed by the community after her husband's death, engulfed herself and her husband's body in flames. He believes himself to be a fox in the shape of a man. Greek mythology informs his destiny as well, subtly setting the stage upon which the events of his life play. Yet, above the decorous theatre is a profoundly human story of Fee's experience growing up in Maine and, along with eleven other boys, suffering sexual abuse at the hands of a Boys Chorus instructor named Big Eric. Sex and suicide surround Fee through his entire adolescence and teenage years. He learns somehow to survive with the elements of creation and death orbiting him constantly, but it is an empty sort of existence for him. Passion is expended on lovers he doesn't care for. The guilt of his former instructor attaches itself to him as he discovers quickly that he is a homosexual himself. His natural desire is tragically intertwined with the other's perversity. His first love, Peter, becomes for him a distorted mirror image of all he is not: blonde, straight and freed by death. Thus, he embarks on an endless struggle to merge with this image, to fall into it, be devoured and emerge cleansed by flame. Despite surviving (barely) through college, making close friends and finding a lover, Bridely, who he marries in a commitment ceremony, Fee is unable to escape from his past and the conception of his own destiny militated by his demon fox spirit. He is paired finally with a spectre from the past and the mirror image he longed to meld into.<br />The first most striking quality of Chee's unique prose style is his use of metaphor. With a lyrical intensity, the world is shaped by Fee's subjective understand of what surrounds him. Like the best of Eudora Welty's stories, the author uses metaphor to beautifully invoke experience with hyper-intensive feeling. The most emotionally unsettling moments of the book are captured with startling imagery. These moments not only convey the essential elements of the story, but also distort the world in a way to disturb and inspire your conscious interpretation of it. The understanding of desire and love are wildly twisted to unsettle and force you to think of the nature of their meaning. You are pushed to re-evaluate your own experience: \\"Do you remember what it was like, to be young? You do. Was there any innocence? No. Things were exactly what they looked like. If anyone tries for innocence, it's the adult, moving forward, forgetting.\\" The structure of the novel impresses the need for these contemplations all the more. The first person, present tense of the narration impresses a sense of immediacy relevant for the dramatization of the characters' consciousness. Noticeably, the quotation marks of speech are experimentally removed letting the words uttered float freely in the air along with the sensitive impressions of the characters' thoughts. Yet, Chee's impressive expansion of the novels form does not delineate from the impact of the tale told. Although it is anything but a light read, it is still a thoroughly engaging and enjoyable novel. This is anything but a common coming of age story. The book is packed with intense, fully realised characters each of whom radiate a need to have their own stories told. The primary setting of Maine, so often an idyllic stage in fiction, is depicted as a troubled landscape, both turbulent and beautiful. It is interesting the final scene takes place in Cape Elizabeth's Fort Williams, an army fort well stocked in WWII that never witnessed the battles it was prepared to face. Now it is a popular park. The ruins left may speak more for the characters they surround than the characters speak for themselves. Sparkling with impressive imagery and powerful wisdom, Edinburgh is an incredible artistic accomplishment and a powerful debut.rful wisdom, Edinburgh is an incredible artistic accomplishment and a powerful debut.	2002-10-30
US	48509548	R2ND9GXI8R0ZIJ	1573222038	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	188	197	N	N	Pickpocketing the Pages of History	Sarah Waters' third novel begins simply enough. Sue Trinder is a teenage orphan who lives amongst a group of confidence men, thieves, baby farmers and fingersmiths (a 19th-century term for a pickpockets). An unscrupulous man commonly and ironically known as Gentleman compels Sue to join in his plot to win the heart of an elderly bookish man's niece named Maud. Maud is heiress to a fortune, but she can only claim it if she marries. The plan is: win the lady, ditch the wife in an insane asylum and split the fortune. Sue becomes Maud's maid and when the plot is reaching its timely conclusion is the exact point where it is fractured and split like a forest path into numerous twisting paths revealing long held secrets and hidden strife. Sue and Maud are made to endure separate trials in their journey including the incarceration in a mad house, the subjection of reading and transcribing appalling pornography to a perverted old man and a dangerous journey through treacherous London in search of a friend in order for them to discover what their true pasts consist of and what predestined traits may tweak their futures.<br />It is fitting that at the beginning of this novel a reference is made to Dickens' Oliver Twist. Fingersmith is a novel descended from Dickens voluminous library as well as much 19th century sensualist fiction. Waters skilled use of language to evoke characters and a sense of place through physical detail and psychological mapping of experience is a distinct characteristic of this descent. She also has a tremendous ability to use fabulous names such as (Mrs Sucksby and Miss Bacon) as Dickens did to mark poignant traits of her characters. Where Waters veers from Dickens is in her conjuring of robust female characters who can dominate the novel, not through the circumstances of their plight and their representation of certain social injustice, but through the powerful voice they use to assert their individual positions. Of course the great descriptions and plotting Waters uses to conjure this tale of a 19th century English plot to capture a family fortune makes a great many statements about the ways in which women were marginalised and the bizarre social positions they were forced to inhabit. However, the great strength of her brilliant protagonists Sue and Maud is in the way their actions are guided more by their impulsive desire to survive rather than to spur the trim, thrilling plot or subscribe to any societal roles presented to them. Their struggles led by these natures produces a longing for a happy resolution built not out of sentimentally contrived conventions, but a deserved reward for revealing to us their faulty human natures.<br />Sue and Maud are not angels. They both deceive and betray each other, but they discover in this Darwinian world a rare affection for each other and a chance to share confidence when one's closest family is apt to betray you. The curious mirroring effect Waters uses with them, mixing pasts and characteristics of them, is descended from a more recent literary genius, Angela Carter. There are elements of her ideas (particularly realised in her novel Wise Children) on the way identity can be splintered, performed and reimagined which correspond to the ways Susan and Maud's fates are intertwined. Their relationship is drawn out as a struggle to express their mutual love and define their suppressed lesbian desires. But this is also presented as an arduous task to realise the aspects which make them powerful individuals. This novel makes the remote past enticingly familiar and relates a harrowing story that makes you wish it to continue on and on.lotting Waters uses to conjure this tale of a 19th century English plot to capture a family fortune makes a great many statements about the ways in which women were marginalised and the bizarre social positions they were forced to inhabit. However, the great strength of her brilliant protagonists Sue and Maud is in the way their actions are guided more by their impulsive desire to survive rather than to spur the trim, thrilling plot or subscribe to any societal roles presented to them. Their struggles led by these natures produces a longing for a happy resolution built not out of sentimentally contrived conventions, but a deserved reward for revealing to us their faulty human natures.<br />Sue and Maud are not angels. They both deceive and betray each other, but they discover in this Darwinian world a rare affection for each other and a chance to share confidence when one's closest family is apt to betray you. The curious mirroring effect Waters uses with them, mixing pasts and characteristics of them, is descended from a more recent literary genius, Angela Carter. There are elements of her ideas (particularly realised in her novel Wise Children) on the way identity can be splintered, performed and reimagined which correspond to the ways Susan and Maud's fates are intertwined. Their relationship is drawn out as a struggle to express their mutual love and define their suppressed lesbian desires. But this is also presented as an arduous task to realise the aspects which make them powerful individuals. This novel makes the remote past enticingly familiar and relates a harrowing story that makes you wish it to continue on and on.	2002-10-18
US	48509548	R35PO61SL4FO01	0701173629	881932045	To the Last City	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Past the Last	To The Last City is about a group of Europeans who travel deep into the Peruvian Andes in search of the lost Inca civilization's ruins and one city in particular, Vilcabamba. Each possesses a distinct viewpoint on life and their reasons for travelling to this wild place. Through his lush and fantastically evocative prose, Colin Thubron creates a novel of powerful beauty that pares down the civilised demeanour of his characters to reveal their burning spirits. His experience as a travel writes gives him unique insight into the brutality of group excursions in foreign places and detailed knowledge of exotic environments. By the relationships of the diverse characters, we experience their search for what remains of this lost civilization and their memories of the past. My only criticism is that Thubron doesn't spend enough time relating the psychology of the Peruvian characters who are travelling with the Europeans. While very occasionally he writes of the guide's thoughts, he almost exclusively follows only the European's perspectives.<br />What makes this novel disturbingly unique is its exploration of the way the past influences the present for the characters. Each character is fiercely trying to remember and forget. Francisco feels a terrible burden as his ancestors were Spanish conquerors who helped invade and destroy the Incan civilization. Religion wasn't enough to purge his feelings of guilt, but he feels he must offer himself as a sacrifice to the unknown of this lost city. Desire to rectify the past is a common feeling, but what can be given to compensate for what we don't understand? Their journey builds to a terrifying standoff where the present meets the past. As we travel the road to the last city where the Incans tried to subsist free of the Spanish invasion, we strip away the characters' exteriors to find their true intentions.	2002-10-10
US	48509548	R1X22JRBOL4XWB	0060501170	876613013	I'll Take You There: A Novel	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Arriving Where She Needs To Be	I'll Take You There is a story divided into three sections concerning crucial stages of a girl's development and narrated in the first person by the girl, Anellia, herself. This is the same structure Joyce Carol Oates uses in her 1986 novel Marya: A Life though the stories of the two novels differ in some crucial elements. The first section, The Penitent, is primarily concerned with Anellia's torturous time spent in a sorority called Kappa Gamma Pi and her relationship with the foreboding and ultimately tragic English headmistress Mrs. Agnes Thayer. Her entrance into the sorority sparked by a timid desire to gain acceptance from her peers, gradually reveals the shallow nature of the sisters and the vacuous symbols of their elite collective. The second section, The Negro Lover, explores Anellia's complex relationship with brilliant and troubled Vernor Matheius. Her obsession with the philosophy student blooms into a tumultuous relationship based on passion that is stirred by feelings of alienation. Each of them are fiercely intelligent and trapped by a societal definition based on the exterior that they cannot escape. But unlike Vernor, Anellia embraces this identity distinction, her Jewish heritage, in order to exile herself from the repugnant normality she has discovered. The third and slightest section, The Way Out, finds Anellia extracted from the developmental struggle of university and unexpectedly driven to a reunion with her estranged father. As he is slowly dying, she develops a relationship with his caregiver and fiancee Hildie. The feelings of opportunities lost and emotions wasted are gradually excavated over their time together as they come to terms with losing a man who will always remain an aloof mystery.<br />This novel is brewing with complex ideas all delicately arranged around an intricate plot. The sections of the novel could stand quite independently from each other. But together they draw an intriguing picture of Anellia's development and her discovery of the woman she wants to become. The frame she has set around her life is designed to mollify her qualms with existence but it is also a trap that limits the freedom of her individuality. The language she composes to liberate herself is also an unbearable burden. This is revealed in the telling line: \\"In fear I seemed to be plucking at, with childish fingers, a consolation of philosophy.\\" Anellia's relationship with Vernor is akin to an artist gazing upon her muse, drawing inspiration and guidance to create an artwork, an identity for herself. Unhesitating in her confrontation of the troubles of racial relations as Oates always is, the denial of the language which defines Vernor's color provokes the collapse of any true connection between them. This, paired with Vernor's own inability to divert from the path he has limited himself to, makes their coupling wildly antagonistic and dangerous.<br />It is significant that Oates has dedicated this novel to Gloria Vanderbilt, the visual artist, on who's work Oates has written: \\"It may be that Dream Boxes represent an elliptical, subversive reclaiming of identity by one who has, unlike most of us, been over-defined - `over-determined' in psychoanalytical terms-by the exterior world.\\" Anellia is also unique and this confession to an unknown companion is her psychological triptych. Engagingly emotional and philosophical, I'll Take You There is a deep study of a difficult climb to adulthood. Its artful composition produces a compelling novel. It is a skillful accomplishment that can be enjoyed by both the passionate thinking and the romantic reader.scovery of the woman she wants to become. The frame she has set around her life is designed to mollify her qualms with existence but it is also a trap that limits the freedom of her individuality. The language she composes to liberate herself is also an unbearable burden. This is revealed in the telling line: \\"In fear I seemed to be plucking at, with childish fingers, a consolation of philosophy.\\" Anellia's relationship with Vernor is akin to an artist gazing upon her muse, drawing inspiration and guidance to create an artwork, an identity for herself. Unhesitating in her confrontation of the troubles of racial relations as Oates always is, the denial of the language which defines Vernor's color provokes the collapse of any true connection between them. This, paired with Vernor's own inability to divert from the path he has limited himself to, makes their coupling wildly antagonistic and dangerous.<br />It is significant that Oates has dedicated this novel to Gloria Vanderbilt, the visual artist, on who's work Oates has written: \\"It may be that Dream Boxes represent an elliptical, subversive reclaiming of identity by one who has, unlike most of us, been over-defined - `over-determined' in psychoanalytical terms-by the exterior world.\\" Anellia is also unique and this confession to an unknown companion is her psychological triptych. Engagingly emotional and philosophical, I'll Take You There is a deep study of a difficult climb to adulthood. Its artful composition produces a compelling novel. It is a skillful accomplishment that can be enjoyed by both the passionate thinking and the romantic reader.	2002-10-01
US	48509548	R2G6GJN2O9ZZF4	1555836372	313913479	Sticky Kisses: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Making Them Last	Sticky Kisses is a bright, innovative novel throbbing with pertinent ideas. It is the story of a family focusing more on the uncommon theme of sibling relationship rather than the more popular area of complexities between parents and children. Thom, a gay real estate agent has been estranged from his family for years. When his sister Abby comes to visit him, both Thom and their mother have expectations as to the reasons for her visit. However, it is Abby's determination to use the visit as a means for exploring her own needs as she was unable to do in the sheltered nest of her mother's home. From there follows a moving story of the changing relations of this family in the midst of confronting unexpected obstacles and overcoming bitter resentment.<br />The characters have slow, contemplative natures. Both Thom and Abby, the most intensely \\"real\\" characters, don't seem to make decisions for their future based on moral deductions but through carefully filtering their emotions of the past. This is really against their catholic upbringing in a strong, but understated way. The way they moved between memories of the past and the actions of the present was quite eloquent. It's very sad in a way, not just the multiple tragedies which besiege the characters, but their inability to communicate their pain to each other amidst such close, free relationships. The thing that stays with me the most is thinking of Connie's character. He's quite a perplexing person since he's so outwardly jubilant, but inwardly tortured by drugs and his tumultuous relationship with his father (imagined or not?). It's interesting how the families are paired: the connection that Connie and his mother were unable to form because of death, Thom and Lucille find because they both seem to realize how fleeting their chances are. Or at least this is Thom's realization as we're not given Lucille's \\"reasoning\\" for her change of heart rather than her declaration of the importance of family. It is touching also how each tragedy seems paired with a reprieve from suffering, through moments of isolated joy like Thom's encounter with the boy in the public toilet or his \\"angel\\" male nurse. At one point Philip quotes to Abby: \\"Sick people form such deep, sincere attachments.\\" This mysterious quote sets the tone for the rest of the novel. It gives the character's moments of blissful revelation a sinister edge, like deceit and tragedy are just around the corner. This is a novel of compelling strength rendered with a fine talent.how each tragedy seems paired with a reprieve from suffering, through moments of isolated joy like Thom's encounter with the boy in the public toilet or his \\"angel\\" male nurse. At one point Philip quotes to Abby: \\"Sick people form such deep, sincere attachments.\\" This mysterious quote sets the tone for the rest of the novel. It gives the character's moments of blissful revelation a sinister edge, like deceit and tragedy are just around the corner. This is a novel of compelling strength rendered with a fine talent.	2002-09-25
US	48509548	RP2XK8WJX54EC	0375403736	564250926	Family Matters	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Wise Tale of Family Life	This novel takes place in Bombay in the mid-90s. While it's story makes many interesting specific statements about the politics and social climate of Parsi life in this time period, it holds timeless meanings for any family that exists anywhere in the world. This immensely readable novel tells the story of Nariman Vakeel in his last years and his relations with his two stepchildren Jal and Coomy, his daughter Roxana and her family. Nariman, debilitated by Parkinson's, has come to a point in his life where he can no longer take care of himself and so must rely on the attention of his children. Throughout the novel, we discover the details of Nariman's tragic past while we simultaneously experience the fascinating and harrowing trials his children undergo. As the family struggles to decide whose responsibility it is to care for the aging man, Roxana and her husband Yezad labor to make ends meet while raising two enduring boys. Yezad, whose dreams of an idyllic life in Canada are thwarted, works in a sporting goods shop and finds the amount of comfort he receives returning each day to a loving family decrease. Through several trials of transgression, the family learn that chance alone can calculate when their fortunes will arise. Peace is a certain uncertainty. The only times that are certain are fleeting moments of contentment wrought from loving gestures.<br />This is a beautiful and heartfelt novel. Mistry is thoroughly familiar with the tedious existence wrought from working in an uncreative job in order to keep the family going. (He worked in a bank for many years before beginning his writing career.) This is evident in Yezad's daily struggles. However, each character is sharply drawn making them seem instantly familiar as if they have long been a part of our own family. Therefore, the connections become extremely personal and during tender moments you may find yourself moved to tears like I was in one scene. The book also makes powerful statements about living in postcolonial India where the shadow of English culture still weighs over life. Yezad witnesses his son falling under the same amorous spell he submitted to as a child reading heroic novels about an England that only exists as an idea of England. Family life according to Rohinton Mistry is not a happy matter, but it is enlightening, complex, rewarding and surprisingly rich.in postcolonial India where the shadow of English culture still weighs over life. Yezad witnesses his son falling under the same amorous spell he submitted to as a child reading heroic novels about an England that only exists as an idea of England. Family life according to Rohinton Mistry is not a happy matter, but it is enlightening, complex, rewarding and surprisingly rich.	2002-09-23
US	48509548	R3K4LRLPW8IS94	1582432082	193895251	Critical Injuries	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Necessary Healing	Simple pleasures lead to dangerous results in Barfoot's deeply compelling and emotional novel Critical Injuries. Isla, a middle aged women goes with her husband Lyle to get an ice cream cone as a small reward. This innocent act turns to tragedy when Isla finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong time. Roddy is a teenage boy who makes a foolhardy plan with his close friend Mike to make some quick money in an attempt to escape the monotony of their small town. A thoughtless action at the dairy bar sparks a chain of events that will alter their lives forever. Gradually, as the heart wrenching struggles of the present unfold, the pasts of Isla and Roddy are related to give an unprejudiced view of their development. Each has had to deal with unexpected loss, disappointment and terrifying challenges. Extraordinary decisions need to be made by ordinary people. This novel is a tribute to that struggle. Slowly we are given a detailed picture of the nature of recovery and forgiveness. The brutal honesty of the ending creates a resounding impression.<br />The tremendous strength of this novel is in the power of Barfoot's prose to create a sense of immediacy. She does this through establishing powerful voices for her characters that comment upon situations as they occur letting their thoughts and memories leak out into the present moment. Her portrait of each character is deeply sympathetic to their struggle to live happily and thus the reader feels a strong connection to them. It is as if, through a slight alteration of fate, these moving characters could be us and their harrowing events might be ours. Each character is neither perfect nor evil. The author depicts with elegantly constructed prose the flaws of human nature using accuracy and profound wit. The intellectual conflicts the characters face are presented with emotionally rounded pictures lending depth and wisdom to their struggle. The novel makes a powerful impression.	2002-09-05
US	48509548	RVJ9U7VAZWQJJ	1573441236	672543819	Vanishing Rooms: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Dancing on Broken Feet	Vanishing Rooms is an intensely emotional novel. It gives equal voices to three characters: Jesse, a young black dancer who loses his troubled boyfriend Metro; Ruella, a female black dancer who is enamoured with Jesse; and Lonny, a white teenager who prefers the streets and feels he must prove himself to his tough friends. At the centre of the story is the loss of Metro and how it affects all three characters. The death is described flatly, like a piece of impersonal news. This is a contrast to Jesse's deep feelings for him that he describes as akin to his passion for dancing. More than the injustice of this murder, the novel continues on to describe the horrible injustices made toward people who are gay and black as they are forced to be marginal groups of American society. It describes the troubling relationship not only felt in an interracial relationship but also the sad imbalances felt by many gay couples whose definition of monogamy tragically varies. However, the book's attitude toward the varieties of gay life is ambivalent. At one point, Jesse finds himself wandering through a large sex club being led by an older black man who is trying to seduce him. The meaning it has for Jesse is ambivalent. There are wonderful passages describing the scene in a way that is almost hallucinatory.  The novel is filled with such morally ambiguous dilemmas such as the way in which Ruella's brother, a convict, arranges special retribution for Metro's death. Ruella's friendship with Jesse is mysterious and their dependency on each other turns out to be for selfish reasons rather than genuine friendship. The delicate relationships are poignantly explored and the ending is characteristic of the character's personalities with their beautifully rendered drama.	2002-08-28
US	48509548	R1QXXIZM0HR01G	0449223019	30689578	Garden of Earthly Delights	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Embittered Gardens	This is Joyce Carol Oates second published novel. It is where she proved her ability to write a powerful epic as she would later do again in novels such as Bellefleur. It follows the life of Clara, a woman born to migrant workers in the midst of the Depression. She is born appropriately in the middle of a violent accident. Here we see the delicacy and terrifying indifference of human life swept up in a sea of natural transformation. Children, parents and friends die in this bleak Darwinian environment. It is part of the course and they must accept it as they move to the next field where labour is required. Clara grows into a defensive and powerful woman bent on carving a safe space for herself in this harsh world. She falls in love with a man named Lowry who is independent and intelligent. Through him Clara establishes a new life for herself. Only after the birth of their son, Swan (Steven), must she make the decision whether to join with a wealthy restricted life with a man named Revere or lead a life of tumultuous romance with Lowry. Through Swan, Clara attempts to realise all the desires for living which were denied to her in her restricted upbringing. However, Swan, intelligent and emotional, has desires of an entirely different sort. This is a compelling novel that knowledgably explores the multifarious stages of life: the tense exploration of childhood, the embittered compromises of adulthood and the difficult choices we must make to survive. It is a beautifully crafted work.	2002-08-07
US	48509548	R1A36QVBROPGLF	0020209851	673390483	Not Without Laughter	Books	5	53	57	N	N	Laughter and Living	Despite his considerable output of poetry, short stories and autobiographical work, this is Langston Hughes' only novel. It is the tremendously crafted story of Sandy, a black child of the 1920s in rural Kansas. In poignant tightly written chapters, Hughes' depicts various events in Sandy's life often slipping into the perspective of those closest to him. Sandy lives most his life with his strong-willed and deeply religious grandmother Aunt Hager. She is a benevolent woman who desires peaceful racial relations despite the overwhelming amount of racism and discrimination professed by both white and black community members. Sandy's mother Annjee is a loving and hard working woman eternally devoted to her husband Jimboy who is a good hearted man constantly on the move. Sandy's aunt Tempy is a well-off woman trying to immerse herself in white society and denigrating her own race in the process. His other aunt Harriett is a wilful woman who turns from the church for a different kind of existence. Through these expertly drawn characters, Sandy views their examples and he must make the choices that will effect his future. The novel is a tremendous chronicle of the struggle of a family to survive financially. It gives accounts of the psychological dilemma created by growing in a racially divided society and the diffuse joy in life that can be found even in troubling circumstances.<br />Maya Angelou wrote of Not Without Laughter: \\"This book was written when preachers had to be poets and poets were preachers, because they needed to be available to all the people all the time.\\" The messages this novel gives are not subtle. But, through its varied perspectives and eloquently written prose, it envelops the issues it preaches with emotionally edifying ideas. It leaves the reader with a feeling of deep connection to all the characters, particularly the beautiful Sandy in whom we invest our hope and trust to fulfil his potential to become a good, intelligent and strong man who does not feel limited by his racial heritage despite any restrictions society may attempt to place for him. Although it may be a shame that Hughes never wrote another novel as he aptly demonstrated his skill in this one, Not Without Laughter stands as shining work be a skilled artist.not feel limited by his racial heritage despite any restrictions society may attempt to place for him. Although it may be a shame that Hughes never wrote another novel as he aptly demonstrated his skill in this one, Not Without Laughter stands as shining work be a skilled artist.	2002-08-02
US	48509548	RXANS79RSI7V0	0066237564	428641147	Big Mouth & Ugly Girl	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Big Leaps	Big Mouth & Ugly Girl is Joyce Carol Oates' first novel published specifically for young adults. It is the story of two highschool students: Ursula Riggs and Matt Donaghy. Matt is a confident and well-regarded aspiring writer. After making a seemingly harmless comment, he finds himself unexpectedly driven into the center of a controversy over safety within schools. His personal life is in turmoil when Usula, self-proclaimed \\"Ugly Girl,\\" interjects her perspective into the debate and quells the legal persecutions against him with her testimony. Ursula is an athlete with a visual artist's sensibility who thinks of herself as an outsider women warrior. The two teenagers find themselves embroiled in the politics of the adults in their lives as they mature and become familiar with aspects of the society they live in. The tenuous bond they form through e-mails and snatches of conversation develops into an outsider team capable of asserting values formed through practical experience.<br />It seems strange at first that Oates has chosen to write a novel designed for a young adult audience. Yet, her most pressing concerns as a writer seem to me inherently mixed with the emotional pitch of this age group. The central characters' construction is based upon a self-conscious redevelopment of identity where their societal position is internalized and interpreted by the characters through a proclaimed role. Oates has used this device before most notably in her novels Blonde and Man Crazy. The characters understand what is thought of them and they define themselves in accordance with this as a method of coping in society. Oates recognizes that teenagers are more subject to this violent process. This is due to the perilous condition of the young who exist within a space of circumscribed personal freedom. As their behavior is molded, their desperation to maintain a personal conception of themselves as individuals is heightened. Oates tremendous gift is for observing the emotional process of this struggle by delineating the experiences of multifarious personalities. She does this in a convincing portrait of modern teenage youth. This novel is a cleverly conceived dramatization of the lives of the next generation.ocess of this struggle by delineating the experiences of multifarious personalities. She does this in a convincing portrait of modern teenage youth. This novel is a cleverly conceived dramatization of the lives of the next generation.	2002-05-13
US	48509548	R21JH2K4R7J31W	0140036105	884126670	Quartet	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Forget Me Knots	Quartet was Jean Rhys' first novel. It is the story of Marya, a British expatriate living in Paris in the early part of the 20th century. She is acutely self-conscious and yet utterly incapable of changing her life to achieve happiness. Her life revolves around two men: Stephan, her vague Polish husband and HJ, a married British ex-pat who is extremely social and active in the arts. Marya's life has been pared down to essentials: dining, drinking, reading and waiting for her husband to return. When she finds Stephan has been unexpectedly arrested her attachment to him is disturbed. Craving affection and financial security, she desperately attempts to discover why Stephan has been arrested and how she can stay in contact with him. However, she quickly takes up with HJ and his wife, Lois. Her emotions become dangerously tangled between the two. Meandering through defeat after defeat entirely unsatisfied and pining for the money to pay for her rent and a glass of brandy, she ultimately has to face the consequences of her love affair. Marya is vaguely dissatisfied and compulsively tragic. In her life which closely parallels Rhys' own, she finds no remission for the terribly existential fact of life.<br />In this novel Rhys subtly satirizes her affair with Ford Madox Ford and the life she led with him in Paris. This time of great artistic innovation is reduced to the bare facts of the debased livelihood of the expatriates: their drinking and intertwining sexual affairs. Rhys is unremittingly spare in her emotional honesty. Her prose are hollowed out just as the main character's personality is hollowed out. There is nothing tender about this fictitious recreating. It is brutal, just as Rhys' vision of life. Emotions seep out in sporadic bursts and the rest is contemptuously smoking a cigarette and watching passers by. But the gaze of Marya's is incredibly telling. Her feelings are projected outward onto the people surrounding her. A man or woman witnessed walking by or sitting on the opposite side of a caf&eacute; will inhabit the emotions Marya does not allow to pool inside her. In this way, Rhys fiction is a strong precursor to Alain Robbe-Grillet's because of the intensely violent subjectivity of the character's perception of the world. The solemn nature of novel evokes powerful feelings of sympathy and sorrow.tting on the opposite side of a caf&eacute; will inhabit the emotions Marya does not allow to pool inside her. In this way, Rhys fiction is a strong precursor to Alain Robbe-Grillet's because of the intensely violent subjectivity of the character's perception of the world. The solemn nature of novel evokes powerful feelings of sympathy and sorrow.	2002-04-02
US	48509548	RVDBB77PPJRG7	0865476144	470513060	Tower: Faith, Vertigo, and Amateur Construction	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Less Than Ivory	Against all logic, Bill Henderson travels to Maine in search of a quiescent state of mind. The editor of Pushcart Press is a married middle-aged man who has just completed his memoirs and is now searching for... what? A tower. His own tower. This compulsion to create a space of fortified solitude is an impulse that is as equally mysterious to the writer/builder himself as to the reader. This curious book is a hodgepodge of details of some of the most acute personal events of his life, the practical construction of a tower from the allocation of a plot of land to the ideal decor for a tower and a scattered history of tower raising. It is a meditation on the compulsive need for solitude in a world where religion falls short of answering our metaphysical questions. The details of the tower's construction are threaded with Henderson's anecdotal accounts and justifications for the project. Illustrations of the tower he builds and various historical towers are scattered throughout the book. Unfortunately, he spends a tad too long summarizing the major points of his two previous memoirs instead of digging into new areas of his literary and personal life. Far from solving the problem of why he wants to build his own tower, this book is a testament to the impulsive desires of our lives. It is meant not only as a practical guide to building your own tower but dealing with the oddities of individual existence. Like Thoreau's Walden, this book is a novel, memoir, philosophical essay and social commentary touching upon universal issues through a moving personal account.	2002-02-11
US	48509548	R36EFG9SOA3T66	0670880574	193009937	Marcel Proust	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Making the Enormous Manageable	This is not a deep study on the great French writer's work, nor is it meant to be. However, it is a slim, fascinating and surprisingly penetrating insight into the life and writing of Proust. This tale is consciously told from White's perspective touching on issues and aspects about Proust's life he is interested in. This includes the way the world perceives Proust & interprets his work, how his homosexual status effected his work and public persona, the interaction between his writing & life and citing the most interesting work that has been done preceding Proust's life. It follows the basic time line of Proust's life and is related in a gossipy though highly intelligent fashion. The most interesting aspect of the book is the way it examines the way he is able to historically place the opinion of homosexuality at the time with other writers and the politics of the time and explain how it effected Proust's life. It relates how his life was really guided by a need for love and approval and how this was reflected in his relationships with his mother & lovers and filtered into his writing. The border between fictionalization and wishful thinking is finely tread in Proust's work because of this. White also gives an interesting insight into the way Proust worked as a craftsman playing with and mixing the genres of novel and the essay. Though this book touches on many interesting academic issues such as this, it is a very entertaining read and can be read easily by anyone who is a large fan of Proust's work or a complete novice. It is admirable White is able to touch on aspects of the writer's life that have not be ever deeply explored before.	2002-01-21
US	48509548	R19ES18NMUKIYZ	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	3	4	N	N	America Unbound	The Corrections is a large-scale examination of American culture focused through the eyes of a \\"typical\\" American family named Lambert. Each of the members of the family are dysfunctional and tortured in their own ways, but Franzen gives an equally critical and sympathetic attitude toward each. One of the children of the family, Gary, is a determined businessman, bent on a self-help book form of fulfilment. It seems to me ironic that Opera initially wanted this book as part of her club when her show so commonly preaches his kind of internally motivated and overly analytical desire for bettering the self. The novel revolves between the family's perspectives drawing you to understand with the mysteries of their different personalities. They all exemplify classic stereotypes of their generation captured in the transformative nature of chance. Franzen loads us with their sensations mounting to an enormous accumulation of detail and description of life in America. It addresses international relations, drug addiction, homosexuality, capital underhandedness, Alzheimer's disease, environmentalism and many other loaded issues of relevance. Many novels have given us a broad look at a culture such as this, but where this novel truly excels is the way it cuts through the cynicism which so naturally accompanies a survey of this kind, especially one which the author himself comes out of.  This is exemplified in the character of Chip, second son of the family, who is an anxious young man whose authority is undermined in scenes such as a cultural studies class he teaches, by his students' reactions and the cynicism is turned on its head. Chip himself actually becomes a very hopeful character (as do some of the others). This attitude isn't a melodramatic twist as it may have been in some other novels which try to do similar things, but feels entirely earned by each of the characters who struggle for a new form of happiness and peaceful coexistence in culture as turbulent as this.	2002-01-18
US	48509548	R2M376ZNAH8R3F	0863164013	757355138	Iris Murdoch for Beginners	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A Great Way to Begin	I only bought this book because I thought it was hilarious that the Beginners series did one on Iris Murdoch. It just seemed a strange choice. However, now that I've read it I feel that Bran Nicol gives a very comprehensive and entertaining introduction to one of the greatest British writers of the 20th century. The most insightful thing about the book is his very concise, but pointed explanation of Murdoch's philosophy. He does this systematically by explaining the terms of philosophy she was working with in her time period and giving short summaries of the influential thinkers like Plato, Sarte &amp; Freud. He also does a fair evaluation of some of her most important fiction and gives a summary of the most poignant events in her life. While he could have written much more as she wrote so many interesting and diverse novels, the aim of the book and the series is only to give a beginning to the author and there are tips at the end of the best books of Murdoch's to begin with to understand her work. I'd recommend this book to not only anyone who hasn't read books by Murdoch and wants a starting point with her work, but also to people who've read several of her novels and want a better understanding of her place as a great philosophical thinker. This naturally gives further insight to the books you have already read by her. It is a comprehensive and rich start.	2002-01-15
US	48509548	R33B5VP5O02ZCU	0786708964	723656217	Beasts	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Carved Lives	Beasts is a gothic novella set in a small New England woman's college in the 70s. It is told through the perspective of Gillian Brauer, a yearning student poet who is infatuated with her D. H. Lawrence loving professor Andre Harrow and his controversial and mysterious sculptress wife, Dorcas. Several mysteries including recurring acts of arson, a coveted but secret apprenticeship to the radical Dorcas and several students who are debilitated by mental illness are balanced through the book. The characters explore the moral boundary of the liberal time period through their sexual explorations, but this isn't a novella that seeks to exploit the titillating age of free love. Rather, it reinvents the tale of Bluebeard to create a contemporary fable of the grotesque.<br />This novella explores the deadly consequences of a train of thought taken too far, viciously seeking out the passionate ends of extended thoughts. Harrow and his wife take the liberal sexual attitude of DH Lawrence and act out the extreme barriers of it. Gillian enigmatically buries her responsibility in the events of her early life while simultaneously plotting the motives which form her guilt. Somehow she is left centrally pure, a passionate girl spoiled by ideas. Oates draws out the violent inner natures of her characters to show them in the light, exposing the consequences of their nature. This novella isn't subtle, Oates chooses instead to go for the extreme to show us our forgotten nightmares. It is a powerful and memorable read.	2001-12-12
US	48509548	RVFEFG3UGCEOU	1555835929	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Men with Words	Ross Ohrenstedt is a literary scholar whose interest in the Purple Circle (fictionalization of Picano's Violet Quill Club) borders on obsession. He methodically searches out the widowers of the group's members and the few members who remain alive in search of a mysterious man who was rumored to be associated with the group. Amidst his literary finds we are given glimpses of his personal life, aspirations as a scholar and his ambiguous sexuality. This is a book of mysteries layered upon mysteries and the reader ultimately has to draw his own conclusions about what actually happened within this group. The lush prose and biting dialogue lead to a triumphant climax where the ground beneath your feet is obliterated.<br />The mysteries of this book are only a costume for the real problems it is working to unravel. It is a quest to understand the male identity and how we negotiate sexual relations. Its most pressing issue probes the meaning of a self-defined gay literature which the group claims didn't exist before they established it. The need for a category of gay literature extends to sociological issues, but the primary focus of this novel is to explore the impact of this literature upon the general population. By unearthing the multifaceted expressions of homosexuality it celebrates both love and the problems which inspire the need for a defined gay \\"community\\". Ross's primary search is for scholarly achievement, but his desire is to find an understanding of himself which can encompass a fluid sexuality. This is an involving tale and a deep meditation on gay writing itself.	2001-11-20
US	48509548	R6MGNZOHRKHMF	0452267080	367061040	I Lock My Door upon Myself	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Delivering Herself	Inspired by the fantastic poem by Christina Rossetti, I Lock My Door Upon Myself is a tremendous novella that recounts the life of Edith \\"Calla\\" Freilicht from the perspective of her granddaughter. Calla is raised in a small New England community in the early 20th century isolated and detached from her surroundings. She lets others decide the course of her life because she has little interest in the major decisions and is trapped instead inside conundrums of existence: whether life is a dream and if it is who dreams it? Only rarely does she wake from these deep thoughts to reality of the world and the decisions she makes when she does are staunchly opposed to the opinions of society. Her actions though sparse leave her family befuddled for generations so that her granddaughter constantly wonders who Calla really was.<br />This novella questions strongly the location of narrative. The granddaughter tells the story, but it is not really hers and often it is broken by the voice of Calla herself in Oates' characteristic italicised sections which mark the sharp emotional responses of the characters. There is great attention paid to the way the tale is told as the story of the tale itself. It also explores the repression of women in this time period as well as the inherent racism of America. The central theme of the book holds close to the dilemma of Rossetti's poem asking how the self can be protected from others who it recognises itself as separate from and, more importantly, how can false conceptions of oneself be separated from the physical reality of being. This is an emotional and serious tale that makes you think how we are bound to each other and how we place ourselves in the world.	2001-11-07
US	48509548	R2HI8N5T9U76D5	0375421041	27158829	The Dark Room: A Novel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Dark Lives	There have been many narratives which deal with the world's reaction to the atrocities caused by the Nazis, but few have dealt so directly with how Germans feel about inheriting the knowledge of these crimes. Does sharing a national identity with people who have committed such crimes make you a criminal as well? This is the issue that Rachel Seiffert follows with such tenacity in her incredible first novel. The question is beautifully threaded throughout the three narratives of Germans at different points in the century. The final narrative of Micha's digs the deepest into the problem. The three central characters are connected to the Nazi warfare and are trying to understand if their relation to it is something integrally related to themselves. What emerges is a well-rounded picture of the difficulty of living with the fact of this history and trying to peacefully make it a part of your identity.<br />Yet, this novel isn't a meditation only for Germans to deal with their own history. (After all, who doesn't belong to a nation that has committed governmentally enforced crimes against a group of people?) It makes an important statement about World War II but also one about the human condition and our relation to the past. The human relationships are tenderly drawn. All the characters are intensely selfish in their own way, but have encountered numerous difficulties in their lives which have moderated the way they relate to people. The book moves much more slowly at the end and becomes very meditative. At times this becomes more tedious than insightful. However, the final picture is a complicated portrait of national guilt wrapped with small examples of human kindness and forgiveness.	2001-10-29
US	48509548	R2HIII010W7WGW	0066209463	250779400	Middle Age: A Romance	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Starting New	Middle Age is about several upper class characters exploring potential new paths at the mid-point of their lives. At its centre is Adam Berendt whose life is unexpectedly cut off, but whose influence and Socratic interrogation of life acts as a catalyst to transform his friends in the tight-knit community of Salthill. Their lives, as they understand them, dissolve upon his death to be reformed. The mystery of Adam's past is threaded throughout the novel opening dozens of different possible beginnings to his life at the same time as multiple endings to the other characters' lives are imagined. Oates' tremendous skill is to draw a multitude of realistic detail while emotionally constructing her characters' thoughts. This method works to unearth strange revelations in her contemplation of mortality and the depthless possibilities of experience. The characters tear off the costumes of their present identity to wear new masks and reconstitute their sense of being. Marina Troy's potentiality as an artist has lain dormant for many years, but, through Adam's bequest of a residence for solitude, she is given the possibility of expressing her vision. Augusta Cutler leaves her secure life to pursue dangerous new possibilities and trace Adam's past. These stories as well as those of the other characters are told in a revolving narrative focus that juxtaposes the characters' intentions with the dramatic realizations of their experiences. Their middle age lives turn out not to be about just endings, but multiple beginnings as well. The novel gives a heartfelt portrait of characters that identify themselves alternatively as amorphous and fabled beings and desperate to break from their identification of an ordinary life.	2001-09-05
US	48509548	RO3E1T1V6788L	0816612285	600350133	Problems of Dostoevskys Poetics (Theory and History of Literature)	Books	5	60	61	N	N	Intense Revelations	Bakhtin's critique of Dostoevsky's work has revealed so much more to me about the form of this great author's novels than I would have ever been able to understand for myself. What makes Bakhtin such a masterful theorist is his methodical approach to understanding an author's work discussing the historical influence of form and the critical misinterpretations that have preceded the work. He is so attentive to levels of narration that he is able to identify voices in relation to the author and the other characters. This helps to clarify the structure of the narrative and the many ways we can interpret it. Many people have marvelled at the brilliance of Doestoevsky's work but haven't been able to put their finger on why it is so great. Bahktin not only names the reason, but also gives an incredible amount of thorough evidence as to why this is so in a comprehensible way. The technical theory is easy to understand as he is very careful to define his terms and the reasons he uses them. His survey of the development of literary forms, particularly the carnavelesque is informed and inspiring, but be careful as it is slightly idealistic and, though perfectly relevant, you feel that he is assimilating it a little too easy to his critique of Doestoevsky. The narrative techniques he identifies are not only useful in understanding Doestoevskys work but are incredibly useful in thinking about current authors. This is a very important piece of critical work I have come back to again and again.	2001-07-23
US	48509548	RDFMSSOJ0KDQQ	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	5	20	28	N	N	Losing Her Self	The novel Blonde immediately raises questions concerning the reasons for its creation beginning with the choice of its subject: Norma Jean Baker. To write a lengthy novel on a person who has inspired volumes of biographical accounts and publicity may appear to be a spurious task. Yet, Joyce Carol Oates has published Blonde whose original hardback length reaches 738 pages (she reports the original length to be over 1,400 pages before editing) making it the longest novel of the thirty-nine novels she has published previous to Blonde. Why was it necessary for Oates to write this novel now? A partial answer may lie in her disclaimer at the beginning of the novel that clearly defines the work as fiction and that it should not in any way be understood to be a biographical account of the actress. To mark her novel as a work of the imagination is to distance Blonde from interpretations of it as a faithful historical recreation. It insists that the novel intends to deal more with ideas rather than fact. Then, why choose to base the characters and events upon historical occurrences? For Oates purposes, recognizing the historical basis of a subject in a novel links the ideas presented with real concerns and issues rather than letting them flounder in an abstract space. That is not to say that fiction which recognizes itself to be purely fictional cannot discuss \\"real\\" ideas, but Oates novelistic method uses these historical bases as points for ideological engagement. The novel represents and explores many of the essential themes with which Oates has concerned herself in her previous works of fiction. Marilyn Monroe, being the focus of tremendous public attention, has been turned into a mythic and still mysterious figure in American culture. Oates chose her as a subject specifically because so much emphasis has been placed upon \\"Marilyn Monroe,\\" the public image and not on \\"Norma Jean,\\" the historic person. From this base Oates engages with some of her primary motivations as a novelist which are to mingle social commentary with an emotional reimagination of American images in a highly formed literary novel.<br />Oates attraction to the subject of alter-egos and split identities suffuses into her fiction and forms one of the primary subjects of Blonde. There is a recurrent tone Oates uses with many of her female characters when trying to create what she calls psychological realism. Within this literary style she creates a characters who reveals a hypersensitive awareness of her or his own being and a special attentiveness to the perspective of the other characters. The characters establish a delicate relationship to themselves where they are a viewer watching themselves. In her early years, Oates describes from Norma Jean's perspective how this relationship to her Norma Jean self is created: \\"There was a Friend-in-the-Mirror. As soon as I was big enough to see. My Magic Friend. There was a purity in this. Never did I experience my face and body from the inside (where there was numbness like sleep), only through the mirror, where there was sharpness and clarity. In that way I could see myself.\\" The \\"Magic Friend\\" is an ontological observer of the character. It is an objective perspective of the self but is a part of the self at the same time. This is a useful tool for the character to use within her survival of the fictional world as it allows her to manipulate other characters around her by understanding the way they perceive her. However, it is also a dangerous way to condition her place in relation to the world because it divides her sense of reality. As the novel continues the \\"Magic Friend\\" becomes an addictive sedative to Norma Jean leading her further into the realm of the fictitious which serves as an inescapable hall of mirrors where she is unable to distinguish one constructed identity from another. In this divided sense of the self, Oates reveals some of her most powerful literary influences for Blonde.<br />Norma Jean is cited as reading Dostoevsky several times throughout Blonde. Her involvement with his novels betrays not only her intellectual vigor, but a reference to how an individual can contain multiple perspectives in a single consciousness or Bahktin's theory of the dialogic. Oates incorporates this theme into the structure of the novel. She has described the novel as a posthumous account from Norma Jean's perspective. The narrative logic traces her memories in a chronological order interspersed with her self-destructive desire and fated sense of being. Within this perspective is an existential crisis of trying to construct a secure sense of being that is unimpeded by the labels of others. In this overly conscious, split sense of self, Norma Jean parallels the Underground man. This intense consciousness draws the individual into hopeless conundrums concerning the reality of being. Oates portrays this overly conscious self as a division between the inner, spiritual being and outer, materialistic being. The division is irreconcilable because the different interpretations of being are desirous of different consequences. They represent an ideological divide particularly relevant to the American sensibility as Oates more fully discusses in her novel Bellefluer whose central family plays out these dualities through the generations and to tragic consequences. However, as they are contained within the individual of Norma Jean she is led into believing that only by selling the superficial side of her being can she gain the love and recognition she needs. Her original name has been lost to this profession as a blonde actress and this identity can only prove to temporarily solve her unfulfilled sense of being. This need to sell the self to others makes up the central subject of Blonde. It is a powerful and emotionally moving read.as reading Dostoevsky several times throughout Blonde. Her involvement with his novels betrays not only her intellectual vigor, but a reference to how an individual can contain multiple perspectives in a single consciousness or Bahktin's theory of the dialogic. Oates incorporates this theme into the structure of the novel. She has described the novel as a posthumous account from Norma Jean's perspective. The narrative logic traces her memories in a chronological order interspersed with her self-destructive desire and fated sense of being. Within this perspective is an existential crisis of trying to construct a secure sense of being that is unimpeded by the labels of others. In this overly conscious, split sense of self, Norma Jean parallels the Underground man. This intense consciousness draws the individual into hopeless conundrums concerning the reality of being. Oates portrays this overly conscious self as a division between the inner, spiritual being and outer, materialistic being. The division is irreconcilable because the different interpretations of being are desirous of different consequences. They represent an ideological divide particularly relevant to the American sensibility as Oates more fully discusses in her novel Bellefluer whose central family plays out these dualities through the generations and to tragic consequences. However, as they are contained within the individual of Norma Jean she is led into believing that only by selling the superficial side of her being can she gain the love and recognition she needs. Her original name has been lost to this profession as a blonde actress and this identity can only prove to temporarily solve her unfulfilled sense of being. This need to sell the self to others makes up the central subject of Blonde. It is a powerful and emotionally moving read.	2001-06-29
US	48509548	RA7D0UXNGBWHE	0140250395	657744837	None to Accompany Me	Books	5	14	17	N	N	ReInventing Notions of National Identity	Nadine Gordimer's novel None to Accompany Me was published in the same year of South Africa's first Democratic election. The fact that these events coincided is an important influence on interpretations of the novel because of the personal and political significance of the event in relation to Gordimer. A preoccupation with the conflicting political parties reverberates in the consciousness of the South African characters who populate the novel because of the radical nature of this changing government. The characters are captured in a state of transformation where they must renegotiate their own sense of national identity. Gordimer lived through the age of apartheid in South Africa. She always renounced it, discussing its inherent flaws and misconceptions in her fiction and nonfiction. The fact that she defiantly chose not to exile herself in the face of political conflict while writing novels which were mainly in opposition to the National Party who enforced apartheid shows her unswerving commitment to an identification with being a South African citizen who works actively against racism. In a society such as South Africa that has a highly turbulent climate of racism Gordimer has found that a sense of \\"home\\" is an important component upon which to build an environment of equality. The physical nation is what its citizens have in common and, in negotiating boundaries, mental and emotional divides are laid out as well. Therefore, her emphasis on the importance of the land in her writing, how it is sectioned off, claimed and divided, represents the way South Africans have divided their national identity from having any singular meaning. Gordimer has represented in her fiction the levels of these boundaries between people and she has offered a constructive approach to possibly thinking of South African national identity as inclusive of difference while accepting the pragmatism of boundaries. In her early essays of the 1960s she shows a strong resolution that the inherently racist government would be replaced by a power which enforces greater equality. Yet, she also realized that the most important transformation needed to occur in the minds of the citizens of South Africa. They had to recognize the fact of racial difference but also acknowledge that everyone who lives in South Africa is entitled to equal citizenship.<br />Due to the governmentally enforced segregation between the different races, citizens found that living in South Africa under apartheid caused a hypersensitive awareness of his or her own race. Gordimer is no exception to this and has spent much of her writing discussing where white people position themselves in relation to black people. She tries to think out how people can change their frame of mind to assimilate to the idea of a South Africa where people have an equal sense of national identity instead of trapping themselves within terms of binaries. She makes this clear in her statement, \\"If one will always have to feel white first, and African second, it would be better not to stay in Africa.\\" What she seems to be saying is that to live peacefully in a nation you must accept you are entitled to be a citizen of that nation rather than an outsider who happens to inhabit it. This is a dilemma for white Africans who live under the image of \\"black Africa\\". To be African does not necessarily mean that you are black. This is something Gordimer has always vehemently asserted in her writing. It is in the fixed idea of \\"black Africa\\" that boundaries within the national identity are laid and Gordimer is committed to writing of Africa as inclusive of all the relations between its people of all colors. Both the National Party and the Inkath Movement stressed physical boundaries between white and black people. The impact they had on South African citizens over the 20th century encouraged the idea of a national identity divided by color. It is only with the end of apartheid and subsequently the first democratic national election that South Africans can evaluate the impact this division has had with hindsight and whether or not they choose to leave it behind.<br />A major theme of the novel is how to reconcile the ideological transformation taking place politically in South Africa with the personal notions of national identity formulated up to the present time. For people who worked to terminate apartheid, it is difficult to envision any progression when the primary motives of one's actions are committed to ending the politically instituted segregation. Personal actions were planned with thought of a watchful government eye. For the majority of the writing there could be no subject other than the institutionalized racism. It became a polemic for a political position whether direct or indirect that perpetuated itself in all the literature produced. Only now that apartheid has ended and a new political group has succeeded to power can South African individuals envision a future that is not strictly concerned with this national condition. Gordimer is trying to capture in None to Accompany Me the moment of this change through personal transformations: \\"Perhaps the passing away of the old regime makes the abandonment of an old personal life also possible. I'm getting there.\\" Leaving an old notion of national identity behind may make possible the dispensing of an old sense of selfhood. This illustrates the uncertainty of the people who live under this changing government to decide upon how they will perceive their sense of self now that an essential factor of what they perceive to be their identity has changed. The primary subject of this novel then is the omnipresent transformations taking place in South Africa at that time ranging from the personal to the broadly political. This novel is an important work that captures a nation in the midst of dramatic change. It will teach you about the conflicts in South Africa if you have never read much about it before and prompt you to find out more.ection that South Africans can evaluate the impact this division has had with hindsight and whether or not they choose to leave it behind.   <br />A major theme of the novel is how to reconcile the ideological transformation taking place politically in South Africa with the personal notions of national identity formulated up to the present time. For people who worked to terminate apartheid, it is difficult to envision any progression when the primary motives of one's actions are committed to ending the politically instituted segregation. Personal actions were planned with thought of a watchful government eye. For the majority of the writing there could be no subject other than the institutionalized racism. It became a polemic for a political position whether direct or indirect that perpetuated itself in all the literature produced. Only now that apartheid has ended and a new political group has succeeded to power can South African individuals envision a future that is not strictly concerned with this national condition. Gordimer is trying to capture in None to Accompany Me the moment of this change through personal transformations: \\"Perhaps the passing away of the old regime makes the abandonment of an old personal life also possible. I'm getting there.\\" Leaving an old notion of national identity behind may make possible the dispensing of an old sense of selfhood. This illustrates the uncertainty of the people who live under this changing government to decide upon how they will perceive their sense of self now that an essential factor of what they perceive to be their identity has changed. The primary subject of this novel then is the omnipresent transformations taking place in South Africa at that time ranging from the personal to the broadly political. This novel is an important work that captures a nation in the midst of dramatic change. It will teach you about the conflicts in South Africa if you have never read much about it before and prompt you to find out more.	2001-04-23
US	48509548	R2LZUINLTBSFRA	006093140X	285203459	The Golden Notebook: Perennial Classics edition	Books	5	184	203	N	N	All the Amazing Notes	The Golden Notebook is Lessing's most well known of her works and with good reason. It is an incredibly complex and layered work that addresses such ideas as authorship of one's life, the political climate of the 60s and the power relation between the sexes. It would be nave to consider this novel as just a feminist polemic. I know many people have read it only this way or not read it because they assume it is only this. Lessing articulates this point well in her introduction. The novel inhabits many worlds of thought. It just so happens that at the time of its publication it was a very poignant work for feminism. More than any book I know it has the deepest and longest meditation on what it means to split your identity into categories because you can not conceive of yourself as whole in the present climate of society and in viewing your own interactions with people. This obsession with constructing a comprehensive sense of identity leads to an infinite fictionalisation of the protagonist's life. Consider the following passage \\"I looked at her, and thought: That's my child, my flesh and blood. But I couldn't feel it. She said again: `Play, mummy.' I moved wooden bricks for a house, but like a machine. Making myself perform every movement. I could see myself sitting on the floor, the picture of a `young mother playing with her little girl.' Like a film shot, or a photograph.\\" She can't attach her own vision of herself to the reality of her life. The two are separated by the ideologies of society which influence her own vision of who she should be.<br />This novel also captures the political climate of the era, a state of post-war disillusionment with the available models political ideology. They recognise the need for some kind of change, but are unable to envision a model that will work. Opinion is split into infinite personal categories of what government should become. Unfortunately, for all these good things which this novel intelligently discusses, it also has its own shortcomings that the reader should be aware of. Its representation of homosexuality is very limited. It has the unfortunate tendency to envision homosexuality as an idea of being rather than an actual state of being. No doubt, this was influenced at the time it was written by the meaning of being `a gay' as being strongly attached to one's political position. The state of being a homosexual is inextricably attached to the misogynist vision of what femininity should be when it is actually something a bit more complex than that. Though Lessing is able to see through many misconceptions of her era such as the hypocritical actions of people who claimed to be fighting against racism while reinforcing racial divisions, the novel falls a bit short in other areas. Nevertheless, this doesn't prevent it from being a very powerful and enjoyable novel to read.its own shortcomings that the reader should be aware of. Its representation of homosexuality is very limited. It has the unfortunate tendency to envision homosexuality as an idea of being rather than an actual state of being. No doubt, this was influenced at the time it was written by the meaning of being `a gay' as being strongly attached to one's political position. The state of being a homosexual is inextricably attached to the misogynist vision of what femininity should be when it is actually something a bit more complex than that. Though Lessing is able to see through many misconceptions of her era such as the hypocritical actions of people who claimed to be fighting against racism while reinforcing racial divisions, the novel falls a bit short in other areas. Nevertheless, this doesn't prevent it from being a very powerful and enjoyable novel to read.	2001-03-27
US	48509548	R211RLEUOH7QWD	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wanting to Remember and Needing to Forget	At the center of this novel is a house that is infused with the memory of what is too painful to be remembered and what is so important that it cannot be forgot. Sethe and Paul D are people who have both survived slavery though at a heavy cost. Both had to flee their homes and everything that was familiar because \\"home\\" is not completely \\"sweet\\" as its name wishes to make it but then again it is not all sour. Both have been raped. Now, together, they are trying to find a way to look to the future. Paul D is constantly pressing to this end in his naturally patriarchal way, but he is stopped in his progression to make a home by a spiritual invocation that is nothing less than a living memory: Beloved. The make-shift idealistic home is not a proper enclosure for memories that are so terribly large. Lost somewhere in the middle is Denver who has been raised on the retelling of these memories. Through her a process of recreation takes place that elevates the memories of her mother to a present time through oral storytelling. Beloved subjects all the characters to a trial that forces them to look at the past that they alternately avoid and wallow in.<br />The true power of this novel is created in the skilful way it is constructed by Morrison. Never fully in the past, never fully in the present and never looking through just a single pair of eyes. The reader is shifted constantly through time and perspective in a way that makes you feel you are really experiencing the chaos and painfully disordered lives of the characters. You may feel at first what a lovely thing it is that this baby has returned to her mother to create a second chance for them all, but she turns out to be a troubled presence though not an entirely sinister one. The community that rises together to expel her do not have bad intentions, but their intentions are not pure. This is the deep complexity of the novel because the characters are trapped in these paradoxes of aspects to their past and identity that are not all good and not all bad, but work against each other to make existence a painful thing to live with. Somehow, through this, the characters are expected to construct a life for themselves that doesn't let itself be clogged by the onslaught of a difficult past. This is the message for the present day readers who find it so easy to forget and need to find a way to live with a painful awareness of what really happened in our history.at are not all good and not all bad, but work against each other to make existence a painful thing to live with. Somehow, through this, the characters are expected to construct a life for themselves that doesn't let itself be clogged by the onslaught of a difficult past. This is the message for the present day readers who find it so easy to forget and need to find a way to live with a painful awareness of what really happened in our history.	2001-02-19
US	48509548	R1PQNNTWZE7BMF	0876451121	529172811	Mrs. Caliban	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Monster Love	This is a powerful short novel filled with playful words and images that are in dialogue with classical ideas of romance and gothic horror. It works on Shakespeare's idea of the interplay between dream and reality, but does so at a very domestically satisfying level. As the title suggests, this novel's focus is on the housewife and not the great green monster that finds his way into her kitchen. Yet, behind this simple romance is a thick plot of betrayal. This is tightly controlled by Ingalls who never gives anything away until it will make its maximum impact. It's a shame that this novel (and author!) seems to have fallen into a category of obscure fiction because it is truly inspiring in its creative inventiveness and deep psychological portrayal of corrupted innocence.	2001-02-19
US	48509548	R23CZVYJQKIE2C	0843176717	232538493	Mr. Clever (Mr. Men and Little Miss)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Border Between Reality and Clever Clever Land	This is a short fabulous story in the powerfully beautiful Hargreaves Mr Men &amp; Little Miss series. What happens to Mr Clever when he passes beyond the boundary of his Cleverland? He finds for all his cleverness, he has little practical knowledge. A friend of mine said to me that this is similar to college graduates who, after leaving university, find little practical application for all their clever thoughts. This is very true and this small book would make a good joke gift for graduates for this reason. You will find many small but profound similarities between the characters in these little books. They are sharp and witty looks at single aspects of people's personalities. No doubt adults as well as children will draw much enjoyment from them.	2001-02-19
US	48509548	R1CZQLCVUJT78R	0811200051	613618854	Nightwood	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Drama Queens on Parade	In Nightwood there is a purposeful distortion of biographical facts. The past is based on self-deception and self-forgetfulness. The characters speak about their identity as if it were something they are trying to lose by constantly forgetting and reformulating who they are. Felix begins the novel with a past that is admitted to be one based upon deceit. Instead of trying to clarify it, he is compelled to associate with men and women of the theatre who have assumed titles that are equally false. By absorbing himself in this community of carnival freaks, he is able to relieve himself of the need to technically defend the presentation of his identity and he is able to more fully believe in the illusion himself. It is apparent that his assumed identity is no less true than the one that has been given to him through inheritance. An implied assertion is made through his actions that an understanding of identity cannot be achieved by either historical or self-evaluative means. The reaction, then, is to cast the notion of one's own identity out away from oneself as something to be created externally. This effect is illuminated upon in Dr. O'Connor's speech about the continual process of the night: \\"Let a man lay himself down in the Great Bed and his ` identity' is no longer his own, his `trust' is not with him, and his `willingness' is turned over and is of another permission. His distress is wild and anonymous. He sleeps in a Town of Darkness, member of a secret brotherhood. He neither knows himself nor his outriders; he berserks a fearful dimension and dismounts, miraculously, in bed!\\" By giving oneself over to the \\"Night\\", you dispel with the responsibility for your own identity. It is a space of anonymity that can be used to escape from identity because it becomes something completely outside of the self. The suggestion is that this is a process that people are a continual participant in. It is a necessary ritual performed in order to not only to escape what identity is understood to be, but to escape false layers of identity as well. To \\"berserk a fearful dimension\\" is to be rid of the aspects of identity that are used as props to cover what is really unknown about identity. Consequently, the greatest fear of anyone in Nightwood would be the discovery of any certain facts about themselves and, more importantly, their own remembrance of their actual identities. Yet, this is unlikely to happen to any of the characters because they have subjected themselves to enough \\"Nights\\" to never remember themselves again. The result is that you are left in a labyrinth of each character's creation where they may open any one door to find another display, but no certainty because the true identity of the character has been irretrievably lost.<br />Barnes's elliptical descriptions of her characters create a sense that she knows as little about the characters in their narration as the reader knows reading of them. This is not a failure to properly think out the characters, but a condition intentionally created to blur the character's past and relinquish control of the character's enactment of their identity. The authorial descriptions of the characters are largely metaphorical, but as the identities of the characters become more layered the descriptions become more actual than metaphorical. An example is the description of the Duchess of Broadback (Frau Mann): \\"She seemed to have a skin that was the pattern of her costume: a bodice of lozenges, red and yellow, low in the back and ruffled over and under the arms, faded with the reek of her three-a-day control, red tights, laced boots-one somehow felt they ran through her as the design runs through hard holiday candies, and the bulge in the groin where she took the bar, one foot caught in the flex of the calf, was as solid, specialized and as polished as oak. The stuff of the tights was no longer a covering, it was herself; the span of the tightly stitched crotch was so much her own flesh that shewas as unsexed as a doll.\\" The metaphor becomes more than an artistic way to relate the characters to reality. The characters absorb them and they transform into the thing described. This creates a space where the distinction between stage and reality is also blurred and the character can thus create a reality built on their own terms. Reality and performance become inextricable linked to each other. The absorbed descriptions of the characters create a distance between the author and character so that the characters create their own identities to perform. In this way the characters are given as much creative freedom as the author. Just as the author's imagination in the creation of the story is limitless, so is the character's scope of their identity. Thus they are able to perform as they like while giving and withholding bits of their own identity.<br />The purpose for performing identity originates in the character's belief that there is something essential about their identity that does not work within the social mode they inhabit. In Nightwood characters are revealed to be Jewish, homosexual and transgendered. They have all found ways to express facets of these parts of their identity in ways that are safe within the community they inhabit. Because the character's past is obscured, there is no concrete sense of the identities they abandoned or the circumstances under which it did not fit into a set of social norms. Doctor O'Connor's physical identity does not coincide with his belief of what his essential identity is and so he must create a sense of being through words and by dwelling in places that are uninhibited by social norms. This novel gives a complex view on the way we view ourselves and choose to present this self perception.was as unsexed as a doll.\\" The metaphor becomes more than an artistic way to relate the characters to reality. The characters absorb them and they transform into the thing described. This creates a space where the distinction between stage and reality is also blurred and the character can thus create a reality built on their own terms. Reality and performance become inextricable linked to each other. The absorbed descriptions of the characters create a distance between the author and character so that the characters create their own identities to perform. In this way the characters are given as much creative freedom as the author. Just as the author's imagination in the creation of the story is limitless, so is the character's scope of their identity. Thus they are able to perform as they like while giving and withholding bits of their own identity.<br />The purpose for performing identity originates in the character's belief that there is something essential about their identity that does not work within the social mode they inhabit. In Nightwood characters are revealed to be Jewish, homosexual and transgendered. They have all found ways to express facets of these parts of their identity in ways that are safe within the community they inhabit. Because the character's past is obscured, there is no concrete sense of the identities they abandoned or the circumstances under which it did not fit into a set of social norms. Doctor O'Connor's physical identity does not coincide with his belief of what his essential identity is and so he must create a sense of being through words and by dwelling in places that are uninhibited by social norms. This novel gives a complex view on the way we view ourselves and choose to present this self perception.	2001-02-15
US	48509548	R2UG5RVZNO6OEX	0802135161	24358295	Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit	Books	5	34	38	N	N	The Creation of Reality	This novel has often been criticised as Winterson's best now that she has gone on to write several powerfully experimental novels. This is implying that she should have remained in these more familiar regions of experience or stuck to a slightly more conventional mode of narrative. What's tremendous about this novel is the way it works as a perfect springboard for the kind of fiction that is being so negatively criticised for its inventiveness. This is a story about a girl who is struggling with the conventions of a restrictive Pentecostal community in a small spot of England, but it is also about the interplay between reality and fiction in people's lives. Jeanette's fables are established to be as valid as the complex religious practices of her family. The characters of the novel constantly differ to a fictional artifice to hold together the reality they cannot understand. Tension builds when the fictional worlds that people struggle to hold into place contradicts other people's realities. This novel is a tribute to the fight for independence and survival. She powerfully asserts that there is a necessary space for these fictional parts of people's realities despite the conflict it will inevitably create. She suggests that the reality built in fiction is also the truth of our own fictions accepted as reality. The interplay of these two creates a living reality.	2001-02-13
US	48509548	R38SRMBQO5R2ZP	0345348087	396759235	Day of Dog	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heritage and its Consequences	This is a novel about a character named Doug who was just released from prison and the stigma attached to him. It turns out that the consequences of his past is inextricably intertwined with his racial identity and the division in his Australian community between black and white. This novel moves very fast. The rapid pace of the narrative matches the speed with which Doug spirals down toward his inevitable doom. The tone is largely based on a quality of fatalism. For each moment of peace and release, Doug finds an intrusion that prevents him reaching a sense of fulfillment. At times, the author makes this too explicit. The relationships between the characters are what make the story so moving. There is such a strong sense of haphazardly drawn communities between Doug's friends and lovers, but which, for the moment, seem so tremendously real to the characters that you want to believe in their permanence. Doug is plagued with a heritage of divide between his helpful mother and his broken father. This is built in the context of a racially divided community. His parole officer doesn't have any hope or, seemingly, any desire to see Doug become successful. With all these conspiring influences, he cannot achieve any lasting stability. It becomes obvious that there is something unstable that has been built in him that leads him, almost unconsciously, toward his own destruction. This is a short, sad and poignant tale.	2001-02-09
US	48509548	R14E4C74KY31HE	0140077030	383742226	Nights at the Circus	Books	5	19	30	N	N	The Subversive Author and Her Incredible Feats	The beginning of Nights at the Circus is filled with descriptions that question the identities of the characters rather than offer clear descriptions of them. The characters transform themselves, but not in the typical way that fiction creates characters through an explained process of development; but rather, it is one of mutation. The character's presentation of themselves is an act of subterfuge. All the narrative voices that are encountered assert their position as authoritative and dominant in a way that seeks to undermine all the rest, but remains questionable. As Lorna Sage writes in her examination of narrative voices in Nights at the Circus, All of these voices are generously endowed with the kind of dubious plausibility that comes from the suspicion that they are making it up as they go along, just like the author, so that the reader is often treated to the uncanny feeling that he or she is being addressed from behind masks by characters who know they are on stage. It is in the hands of the questionable narrators that the author has placed us as an act of subversion to point out that, while the characters are fictional constructs, they are also entitled to a kind of creative freedom in the identity they choose to present to the reader. This is a technique that blurs the character's identities to create a space of historical disharmony. If the reader is to believe that the characters have an actual past, it is one that we will never feel entirely secure about. It is implied in this that the past is created out of a single personal perspective, one that is largely based on imagination, rather than a line of uncontestable facts. This narrative technique pushes the reader into the chair of an audience member. The spectacle that ensues frames a number of questions about the construction of identity.  Is identity solid or fluid? Are the assumptions made about the character's identities formed from a personal perspective or that of an observer? Rather than offer answers to these questions, the narrative of the characters offer a sense of being that is constantly maintained within the present and not subject to a sense of inevitability based on history.<br />Biographical facts are distorted through a voyeuristic presence upon a character's identity. When Walser comes to interview Fevvers he is more ambitious about dismantling and destroying the identity that is presented to him than trying to understand it. This is a condition of his journalistic ambition, but it is also an act of misogyny to align Fevvers to his own image of what a woman (or a proper bird) should be. Considering her actions in the rest of the narrative, it appears that her ability to transform what people believe to be her identity is what saves her from the many attempts to destroy her sense of being (both physically and mentally). Her vibrant character and profession as a performer enables her to dodge any idea that she is only what the external perspective perceives her as. Through her ability to constantly maintain a performance, the reader and other characters that view her are forced to question their sense of her identity. Through this she is able to maintain an unstifled sense of identity because it is one based upon transformation and elusiveness. Walser deliberates on her motives of presenting herself in the way she does: he (Walser) was astonished to discover that it was the limitations of her act in themselves that made him briefly contemplate the unimaginable - that is, the absolute suspension of disbelief. For, in order to earn a living, might not a genuine bird-woman - in the implausible event that such a thing existed - have to pretend she was an artificial one? He smiled to himself at the paradox: in a secular age, an authentic miracle must purport to be a hoax, in order to gain credit in the world. The distinction between what is genuine and what is false is invalid if a perception of another is made with total acceptance. The reason why Fevvers encounters so many hardships is that people cannot suspend their disbelief. However, the question of whether she really is a bird-woman is suspended in favor of the idea that an unconditional perception of another is what should be made rather than asking a plethora of unanswerable questions about another's identity. If this is the standpoint the reader maintains while reading Fevvers' account of her life, then emotional involvement will take precedence over any logical objections. Any secure sense of being can only be made if there is a certain amount of faith. Fevvers' sense of her own identity is large enough to undo any grounding perception others may have of her and this is why she is able to fly.<br />The communities in Nights at the Circus are counterpoints to the closed, highly formed communities found in novels like To the Lighthouse and the stories of Katherine Mansfield. They allow identity to be individually created rather than socially arranged. The identities always remain in control and under the ownership of the characters themselves. This technique of writing resists any attempt to marginalise the character's position in their social environments because they create identities outside of a hierarchy scheme. Rather, the characters inhabit a fantasy zone composed of mobile symbols intended to poke fun at and undermine the ideas they represent. Nights at the Circus is never allowed to submit to any particular ideological scheme, but point to dreams which are the hinder side of thought's boundaries. It is a novel not intended to platform any particular ideology like feminism (a common belief of this novel), but champion a general philosophical outlook that can undermine conventional moralistic and limited systems of belief.evvers encounters so many hardships is that people cannot suspend their disbelief. However, the question of whether she really is a bird-woman is suspended in favor of the idea that an unconditional perception of another is what should be made rather than asking a plethora of unanswerable questions about another's identity. If this is the standpoint the reader maintains while reading Fevvers' account of her life, then emotional involvement will take precedence over any logical objections. Any secure sense of being can only be made if there is a certain amount of faith. Fevvers' sense of her own identity is large enough to undo any grounding perception others may have of her and this is why she is able to fly.<br />The communities in Nights at the Circus are counterpoints to the closed, highly formed communities found in novels like To the Lighthouse and the stories of Katherine Mansfield. They allow identity to be individually created rather than socially arranged. The identities always remain in control and under the ownership of the characters themselves. This technique of writing resists any attempt to marginalise the character's position in their social environments because they create identities outside of a hierarchy scheme. Rather, the characters inhabit a fantasy zone composed of mobile symbols intended to poke fun at and undermine the ideas they represent. Nights at the Circus is never allowed to submit to any particular ideological scheme, but point to dreams which are the hinder side of thought's boundaries. It is a novel not intended to platform any particular ideology like feminism (a common belief of this novel), but champion a general philosophical outlook that can undermine conventional moralistic and limited systems of belief.	2001-01-30
US	48509548	R1HOX6F9RQ3FUL	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Identity isnt Skin Deep	This is a story about three people, but it is moreover an account of a culture that has been splintered by colonialism. There were a lot of critical arguments circulating at the time of this novel's publication because there was a heavy debate over what the Maori culture should represent itself as and if this female author was doing it properly. The powerful thing about the novel is that while reading it you are hardly aware of the culture representation because at the heart of the story is the conflicts of the central characters. But likewise, when you stand back to look at the novel you see is that the influence of Maori culture is everywhere present in this novel. Instead of trying to interpret these characters as cultural symbols, perhaps they should be conceived as individuals coming to terms with their own identity like anyone else. Kerewin has all the marking of the stereotypical independent artist. She even lives in a tower by the sea, but she is unable to paint. You will find her overpowering ego annoying, but I think you are meant to. Her rapture with herself is one of the things she must learn to overcome throughout the novel. All of the three main characters have a form of artistic expression that is being suppressed through a division in their identity. They must each overcome a barrier before they can truly express themselves and they can only do this together. The interactions between the characters are a masterful portrayal of the way in which close people, especially family members, can avoid some of the most obvious conflicts in their lives when to anyone else they would be quite evident. Toward the end of the novel the characters sink into an almost mythical state of being where their only hope of survival is through a reinvention of their being. This is a sharp departure from the straightforward story up until this point. But it is gradually introduced through a growing emphasis on the internal processes of the characters by narrating their thoughts.<br />I found it disappointing that this novel wasn't properly edited before publication. For some reason the author views this as something to boast about, but I found that a rewording of some phrases and maybe slight cuts for some of the superfluously long scenes would have added to the immense pleasure of reading this astounding novel. Still, as you can tell, it didn't detract from my enjoyment of it.hts. <br />I found it disappointing that this novel wasn't properly edited before publication. For some reason the author views this as something to boast about, but I found that a rewording of some phrases and maybe slight cuts for some of the superfluously long scenes would have added to the immense pleasure of reading this astounding novel. Still, as you can tell, it didn't detract from my enjoyment of it.	2001-01-30
US	48509548	R1642SPNH3MCY6	1570711550	800066025	Love Coupons (Coupon Collections)	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Sometimes you need a Reminder	Even though Valentine's Day may be a little corny, it still is a good opportunity to remember how much someone really matters to you. These little tokens of indebted affection are good reminders to show someone you care. They are particularly important because they don't just last for the odd holiday to remember this, but make you take time out to be together in an intimate way. While it may seem inconvenient at a hectic time, you'll realise that it's just the kind of stimulation you need to remember how much you love someone. It's a great reminder for busy people that aren't always able to show they care.	2001-01-29
US	48509548	R24OXL8TKD568G	0802151361	71119109	Molloy	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Tinkering with the Hinder-Side of Language	Having disposed of the third person narrative in Watt, Beckett focused on the difficulties of articulating personal experience in the first person. Beckett is disengaged from the narratives of Molloy by giving them to the character's to write, but is present throughout the text because he doesn't have the answers to give to the characters to explain who they are and what they are to write. The structure that results is an empty frame in that it considers one explanation for a historical occurrence as valid as the next. The space in which Molloy exists is highly ambiguous and therefore the language he uses to narrate does not provide any comfort at all, but aggravates him to the point where he can extract no meaning at all from his existence. Moran begins his narrative in an ordered space and so many of the statements he makes at the beginning are simple, declarative and create a comfortable area for him to inhabit. This is where Beckett finds it necessary to impose the structure of a genre model, but it is only the proposition of a detective plot because the \\"case\\" isn't carried out in any intelligible fashion. Moran's task to find Molloy eventually becomes clear to be only an internal one. A separate physical being called Molloy may very well exist within the story, but numerous cross-connections between the characters of Molloy and Moran are illuminated in the structure. This is seen in the similarity of their names and the manner in which Moran takes on many of the characteristics of Molloy. For example, they are similar in their physical disintegration, lack of understanding for their environment and complex internal processes of reasoning which leave them with no clear understanding of reality. This results in a mystification of anything actual in the character's lives because language cannot support the fictional character's lack of substantial being.<br />If language presupposes a set of initial limitations it is necessary to find a method to breach them. Molloy examines a kind of ontological condition of narrative that suggests more is being left unwritten than is actually being written: Not to want to say, not to know what you want to say, not to be able to say what you think you want to say, and never to stop saying, or hardly ever, that is the thing to keep in mind, even in the heat of composition. He suggests that it is a human condition to be unable to really express oneself as well as being a fault of language. Rather than see language as a smooth path towards self-expression he sees numerous irregular bumps, the nots, which cut away at the original intended thought. Instead of trying to find an ulterior mode of expression he suggests that expression should simply be conscious of these limitations of language. In this way language is able to delete itself in the midst of its expression. Words are not deleted on the paper, but expressed and then claims are made afterward that the intention of the word does not inhabit the content. A conclusion drawn is that language is inherently muddy and incapable of any pure form of self-expression. This is a dramatic contrast to the use of language by many other Modernists. Unlike Molly's soliloquy in Ulysses where grammar was manipulated in order to simulate thought's form, Molloy's thoughts cannot be allowed to settle so comfortably into words but must be second-guessed and deleted in order to create an appropriate form of expression. This is one temporary solution Beckett makes to illuminate language's limitations and explain how written language can never say what is actually true partly because the actual is never quite a certainty.<br />Molloy is searching within his narrative to find a purpose for writing. He declares early on in the narrative that he does not know why he writes other than that it is for someone else and if he doesn't he will be scolded, but he does not know to what end the writing is for. It is more an obligation than a wish to express himself or to find a means of communication. Even though Molloy writes every day he never arrives at a sense that his identity has been collected and transcribed into a permanent form: And truly it little matters what I say, this or that or any other thing. Saying is inventing. Wrong, very rightly wrong. You invent nothing, you think you are inventing, you think you are escaping, and all you do is stammer out your lesson, the remnants of a pensum one day got by heart and long forgotten, life without tears, as it is wept. When arriving at a conclusion he immediately negates it by explaining why the opposite is true. Writing does not explain his experience. It only filters his thoughts into a form with a prearranged value attached to it. He is criticizing the false revelation of narrative that seeks to convey a true meaning through dead words. It is commonly and mistakenly perceived that there is a physical attachment between words and things when really as Molloy states there are: no things but nameless things, no names but thingless names. The relation between a word and object has no basis in reality, but is merely circumstantial. Because Molloy is unable to explain things without naming them he is only capable of conveying an approximate sense of what he is trying to describe. This prevents the possibility that what he writes will be regarded as a set of absolute truths related from one person to another. It allows reality to be maintained as an open question rather than a closed answer. This seems to be the central point of most of Beckett's work. He makes fascinating statements about the nature of language in Molloy. As always in Beckett's work, it achieves a comic and devastating quality that you will find in no other work.nd a means of communication. Even though Molloy writes every day he never arrives at a sense that his identity has been collected and transcribed into a permanent form: And truly it little matters what I say, this or that or any other thing. Saying is inventing. Wrong, very rightly wrong. You invent nothing, you think you are inventing, you think you are escaping, and all you do is stammer out your lesson, the remnants of a pensum one day got by heart and long forgotten, life without tears, as it is wept. When arriving at a conclusion he immediately negates it by explaining why the opposite is true. Writing does not explain his experience. It only filters his thoughts into a form with a prearranged value attached to it. He is criticizing the false revelation of narrative that seeks to convey a true meaning through dead words. It is commonly and mistakenly perceived that there is a physical attachment between words and things when really as Molloy states there are: no things but nameless things, no names but thingless names. The relation between a word and object has no basis in reality, but is merely circumstantial. Because Molloy is unable to explain things without naming them he is only capable of conveying an approximate sense of what he is trying to describe. This prevents the possibility that what he writes will be regarded as a set of absolute truths related from one person to another. It allows reality to be maintained as an open question rather than a closed answer. This seems to be the central point of most of Beckett's work. He makes fascinating statements about the nature of language in Molloy. As always in Beckett's work, it achieves a comic and devastating quality that you will find in no other work.	2001-01-29
US	48509548	R1QCBQDYJNIJM6	156478214X	833071710	The Third Policeman	Books	4	30	42	N	N	Dark Humour	This novel is about a hilarious and terrifying murder case. You feel at many times dislocated and trapped in a surreal comedy, but the underlying ideas of the story are quite serious. In a sense, the murder is over and solved in the first sentence. The rest of the novel is a contemplation of the psychological and metaphysical consequences of it. With all its comic character twists and impossibly ludicrous theories about the nature of reality, it conveys serious anxieties over the meaning of humanity. The protagonist waits for punishment, but, like Raskolnikov, is tortured more by the anticipation of the punishment than in the execution of it. However, the protagonist's fate isn't that of a remote prison, but a terrible cycle of unjustified loss and excruciating befuddlement. Unlike the homoerotic/spiritual companionship of Ishmael and Queequeg his strangely intimate relationship with John Divney is based on antagonism and suspicion. It is also oddly anonymous for someone who is supposed to be so close to him. His relationship with all the characters including his soul, Joe, is based on a delicate unknowingness. The closest relationship he has is with his favourite author de Selby who he admits to committing his crime for in order to publish his critical commentary on him. It is through the backward logic of this author that he is forced to live by in the aftermath of the murder. He finds himself reverting back to his knowledge of de Selby even though it becomes clear that this has no rational basis. You find yourself laughing, but not for long.	2001-01-29
US	48509548	R35N8XUSR8TIUY	080215140X	983129683	Watt	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Developing Narrative Perspective	In&iexcl;Watt' the third person narration Beckett uses shares an uncomfortable relationship to the characters of the story. It is based either on anonymity or antagonism. This is different from the common intimate relation that the narrators of fiction share with the characters they tell us about. The result of Beckett&iexcl;s writing technique is that the reader can get no sense of a total picture or a comprehensive truth of the character's reality. The narrator is just as curious and confused by the nature of reality in the fictional world as the characters. In the first half of &iexcl;Watt&iexcl; the narrator shows an estrangement from Watt equal to that which Watt shows toward himself. This is not the unreliable narrator of traditional fiction, but a narrator whose ignorance is a cause of the technique of telling which seeks to provide a total viewpoint of reality. The narrator of &iexcl;Watt&iexcl;, rather than assuming the position of a narrator who is a guide through the tale, functions as an unnecessary intermediary between the characters and their search for an understanding of reality. Who else but Watt can effectively relate the experience of his being? Consider Lawrence Harvey&iexcl;s point in his essay on &iexcl;Watt, &quot;He [Watt] becomes a storyteller, but one who by this time is so convinced of the inadequacy of ordinary language that he feels compelled to invent verbal structures that are more closely related to his experience.&iexcl; Watt himself is dissatisfied with the way the narrator is telling the story in the first half of the novel and so tells in his own unique mode of expression his story to Sam who acts as an interpreter. This points to a growing dissatisfaction with language as a way of telling in the text and debunks the impossible power of the third person narrator.<br />Sam, who writes in the first person of his relationship with Watt, narrates the second half of the novel. Because Sam's subjective view isn't constrained by the obligations of the supposed all-knowing omniscient narrator, he can more effectively convey that the experience of being is unknowable and unnamable. He admits to the inefficiency of his communication with Watt because it is burdened by the hindrance of their environment and their physical inadequacy. A first person narration is limited by its partial point of view of reality, but it is this limited viewpoint that Beckett seems to be trying to convey. For all of Sam's studious attention and examination of Watt, we are left just as baffled as to who he is as the characters observing Watt at the beginning of the novel, but at least it is a view more conscious of its subjectivity than the omniscient narrator could provide. In the first half of the novel we were given descriptions of the fallibility of logic and in the second half we are given a direct account of the ways in which each solution obtained only generates multiple objections. The first person narrative&iexcl;s direct account thus points to a conscious subjectivity that deletes the assumptions made in omniscient narration that this view of reality is a true representation of what it actually is. However, it becomes apparent in the narrative that the fallibility of reason reveals itself to be not limited to a complication caused by the point of view in telling, but in the nature of the written language used to tell. He develops this point well in his subsequent fiction, but 'Watt' is a fascinating look at how these different narrative perspectives work and is a rich, comic novel to read.-knowing omniscient narrator, he can more effectively convey that the experience of being is unknowable and unnamable. He admits to the inefficiency of his communication with Watt because it is burdened by the hindrance of their environment and their physical inadequacy. A first person narration is limited by its partial point of view of reality, but it is this limited viewpoint that Beckett seems to be trying to convey. For all of Sam's studious attention and examination of Watt, we are left just as baffled as to who he is as the characters observing Watt at the beginning of the novel, but at least it is a view more conscious of its subjectivity than the omniscient narrator could provide. In the first half of the novel we were given descriptions of the fallibility of logic and in the second half we are given a direct account of the ways in which each solution obtained only generates multiple objections. The first person narratives direct account thus points to a conscious subjectivity that deletes the assumptions made in omniscient narration that this view of reality is a true representation of what it actually is. However, it becomes apparent in the narrative that the fallibility of reason reveals itself to be not limited to a complication caused by the point of view in telling, but in the nature of the written language used to tell. He develops this point well in his subsequent fiction, but 'Watt' is a fascinating look at how these different narrative perspectives work and is a rich, comic novel to read.	2001-01-24
US	48509548	R1ZDE9GJ716KPE	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Disturbing Internal Look at the Ego of Capitalism	It seems that the object of this novel was to capture the obsessive materialism of 80s American urban culture and point out the inherent racism and sexism of the business world. It does this very well, even if it leaves the reader often bored by the repetitiveness of the narration and the excruciatingly gory scenes. Patrick Bateman has an apparent Raskolnikov-complex believing himself naturally superior. However, he obviously is not due to his unfailing efforts to remain superior within the circumscribed world of the upper class. What really allows him to maintain his superiority is the cushion of our capitalistic society. His status allows him to transcend the rules that the lower classes and minority groups must live by. Not only social rules, but physical rules as well. His status allows him to accomplish super-human feats. Yet, it is never clear if these accomplishments occur in reality or the complex realm of his poisoned psyche. Not a light `Now a Major Motion Picture' read, but a painful thought-provoking one.	2001-01-22
US	48509548	RJZ5F9SSXDWB1	0805055908	961086949	The Enchantment of Lily Dahl: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enchanting the Reader	Like `The Blindfold' a self consciously post-modern novel filled with empty signs and cultural observation. What I felt her central goal in this novel was to capture the human content of a typical American woman, star-eyed and given to thoughts of her image more than thoughts of her self. At first, it seems that the story might be sacrificed for these random but poignant observations, but by the end you are left with a fragmented image of a woman, cut up by the short-sightedness of society and the misogynistic nature of men. As with her prior novel, she always keeps a tight focus on her heroine, but has succeeded to a much better end a carefully plotted narrative. Like Atwood's `The Edible Woman', the image of what the heroine sees herself to be is eaten by the woman herself, or buried in this case, in order to be redefined by the woman herself. The novel is beautifully written and an engaging read.	2001-01-22
US	48509548	R1XR7UGGCCYOBH	0679723404	44839279	King, Queen, Knave	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Nabakovs Psychological Chess Game	This is an entertaining novel about a love triangle. The only twist about the story is the end which turns out to be surprising and satisfying, but what makes this novel exceptional is Nabakov's beautiful prose style and capability for penetrating the depths of the character's thoughts with intense lyrical innovations. I don't think you are meant to like any of the characters, but consider them to be hard toys with which Nabakov can play his devilish word games.	2001-01-16
US	48509548	REK0X1NNHXBF3	0786705639	722586933	Master Georgie (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Viewing the Man in the Photograph	In a revolving first person narrative, three people who are close to George narrate the events of their mid-nineteenth century life. These narrations center around photographs taken at certain points. Through the course of the novel the idea of an image taken is made increasingly more complex as is the mystery of George who is most often portrayed idealistically as a man of high knowledge and wisdom. Through the carefully written language of the narrative, there are surprisingly human incidents and facts revealed that are startlingly human. These are placed in the frame of the historical context leading to the war between England and Russia. The gruesome events of the war that follow strip each of the three characters of their pretence and leaves them yearning for the image of their lost ideal, Master George. This is a fascinating experiment in looking at ways of perception, the identities they fashion for people and the personal impact of assumptions about other people's identities.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	R3V21QGHHZ6NYO	0807609560	58973848	Owls Do Cry	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Beautifully Stylised View of a Family	This novel follows a linear time scale of the growth in a family's generation with occasional shifts backward or forward to comment on the present. It focuses on the intense emotions of its characters through a detailed focus on objects and the character's speech. There are eloquent descriptions of clothing, the setting of their hometown and even the rubbish in the junkyard the children play in. The most striking part of the book is the long sections narrated from the third person singular perspective of Daphne who spends a good part of her life in a mental institution. These sections are highly poetic and suggest the other language with which people who are mentally think by seeing the world not as reality but as a clutter of subconscious and symbolic images. This, in contrast with the long diary entries of Daphne's sister Teresa (Chicks) who lives in a conventional domestic style maps the different patterns by which people think and reminds you that the world can be perceived in a multitude of different ways. Through poignant metaphorical descriptions and sharp dialogue she conveys what is missing in human relations, especially between family members. There is a delicately portrayed need for genuine respect of the individuality of the children apart from the fixed images acquired in childhood. People change; identity is fluid. When an image of them is maintained or they are held up to an ideal (like the Bessicks who turn out not to be so ideal) then a connection is lost and the individual is left isolated. They become a stranger. This is emphasised in the epilogue where a socially prominent couple discuss articles in a newspaper who they know nothing about but are characters we have become intimately involved with over the course of the novel. It is a beautiful, intimate and heartbreaking portrayal of a family.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	RZK0XZF5YPD7	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A New Kind of Novel for Ishiguro	Mr Ryder is a musician of great reputation. So much so that his public image has become confused with his true self. He seems to have little personality beyond what is projected upon him. In this way he resembles a movie screen, flat and empty. He has no clear idea of his own past or the events that brought him into his present circumstances. His public identity is so fluent that his actual being is at times almost non-existent.  During his session with the photographers they do not speak as if he were there. At other times he becomes omniscient diving into the past and memories of the person he is with. Other times he views a scene at close detail from a great distance away. The text is composed primarily of long monologues of characters spilling themselves out to Ryder which makes the reader wonder if this is actually being said or is only thought. Time is impossibly stretched. In the opening scene when he is riding in the elevator, Gustav speaks for five pages when the elevator couldn't possibly have taken that long to reach their floor. This is the first tip-off for the reader that something larger is going on in the text. This book seems very closely lined with absurdism. The characters make their identities up as they go along. The city isn't in any particular place, but somewhere in Europe. Time isn't always linear. Nevertheless there are very emotional scenes between Ryder's old friend with her snobbish neighbours, Stephan's performance and his parent's recognition. There is a great emphasis placed on coincidence. Places link almost simultaneously with Ryder's needs. People appear and disappear as they are needed. There is a bridge between intention and action that Ryder cannot seem to bring into existence. In great detail he can plan an action but then, through interference, cannot bring the plan into fruition. (His speech at the Countess' party, his speech to the audience after Brodsky's tragic end) This makes the reader wonder about the last few pages that are composed almost completely of his intention regarding the bus ride and the book ends with the impression that time is running circular. This novel is a wonder of innovation and experiment. As long as you aren't looking for something in the same style as Ishiguro's three previous novels the beautiful writing and emotionally powerful story of this novel will amaze you.t are composed almost completely of his intention regarding the bus ride and the book ends with the impression that time is running circular. This novel is a wonder of innovation and experiment. As long as you aren't looking for something in the same style as Ishiguro's three previous novels the beautiful writing and emotionally powerful story of this novel will amaze you.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	R29O8RRQOQ73FV	0679751343	457276000	Angels & Insects: Two Novellas	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Watch the Old Butterflies Flutter	The first novella, Morpho Eugenia, is an account told in the fashion of a Victorian novel and is set in that time. William Anderson is a natural scientist, survivor of a shipwreck returning from his journeys of scientific exploration in the Amazons. Son of Adam of the garden of Eden living in the time where Darwinism is overcoming a long history of fervent religiosity. He is devoted above all to his study of science but finds himself at the novella's start in financial destitution, but has lucked upon the Alabasters, the father of whom is an avid collector of insects and natural life. William is more or less employed by him and inevitably falls in love with his daughter. They marry and William wishes he had found his happy ending. This is where the traditional Victorian novel would have ended it seems; though the complexity of the affair would have been drawn out further. If this had been all there was to the novel, it would have been a great disappointment by only touching upon the novella's major subjects the struggle between religion &amp; science, class conflicts and inhibited sexuality. But instead William finds himself unsatisfied with his happy ending life and dives deeply into the local insect world of ants alongside the withdrawn and mysterious Matty Crompton. Subsequently, each of the issues is explored much more deeply and their entire world is revealed to be some sort of perverse fable with which William becomes thoroughly disgusted yet he is incapable of leaving by his own will. Only by Miss Compton's strength is he able to extricate himself from the Alabaster's swamp. This seems to be a strong comment on many Victorian novels that allowed women to transcend their fated circumstances only through the assistance of a man. This statement is made in contrast to the character of William's wife Eugenia who has been marginalized by her husband who views her only as an angel or an insect but never as a human. It seems that if he had ever recognised her as such that his happy ending would have been a sincere one. Instead, he returns to the point from which he had just returned at the start of the novella, back to the jungle of the Amazon but invested with more hope this time and the powerful human Matty beside him.<br />The second novella, The Conjugal Angel, seems illuminated best by Sophy Sheekhy's thought, \\"They strangled her, she felt sometimes, the living not the dead.\\" The diverse lives of a cluster of spiritualists who seek to communicate with those they love. The complexity of their faith is drawn out in a series of memories and meditations focusing on the transcendental aspect of love, but also the insurmountable divide between human relations and the power of a divided spirit to ferociously tear at the living. The constant need of all those involved to reach out points to an inadequacy to communicate truthfully with the living. There is a sense that in life we are separated by these many dividing factors, but the ideal is that in death we may be joined as one. The ending which reunited Mrs. Papagay with Captain Papagay suggests a hope for the living to experience spiritual union in life that need not wait for death.<br />I found the first novella much more enjoyable than the second. Morpho Eugenia is able to relate a number of complex issues while being entertaining at the same time, but The Conjugal Angel is simply quite dense while portraying interesting intellectual ideas and is too literary.that his happy ending would have been a sincere one. Instead, he returns to the point from which he had just returned at the start of the novella, back to the jungle of the Amazon but invested with more hope this time and the powerful human Matty beside him.<br />The second novella, The Conjugal Angel, seems illuminated best by Sophy Sheekhy's thought, \\"They strangled her, she felt sometimes, the living not the dead.\\" The diverse lives of a cluster of spiritualists who seek to communicate with those they love. The complexity of their faith is drawn out in a series of memories and meditations focusing on the transcendental aspect of love, but also the insurmountable divide between human relations and the power of a divided spirit to ferociously tear at the living. The constant need of all those involved to reach out points to an inadequacy to communicate truthfully with the living. There is a sense that in life we are separated by these many dividing factors, but the ideal is that in death we may be joined as one. The ending which reunited Mrs. Papagay with Captain Papagay suggests a hope for the living to experience spiritual union in life that need not wait for death.<br />I found the first novella much more enjoyable than the second. Morpho Eugenia is able to relate a number of complex issues while being entertaining at the same time, but The Conjugal Angel is simply quite dense while portraying interesting intellectual ideas and is too literary.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	R1C8XTAFS7J50K	0140014454	445043218	Under the Net	Books	5	56	61	N	N	Whats Becoming of Being?	I audibly laughed through half the scenes of this amazing first novel. It is a great thing to make someone laugh out loud while reading and this book did it continually. Whether it be the point where Jake Donaghue sits outside Sadie's flat listening to the \\"plot\\" against him with the neighbours poking him to see what he'll do or the superhero stunts of Jake and Hugo at the Roman set saving Lefty. I couldn't stop myself from laughing at the clever wit of the situation. But, what is amazing is that behind all of this there are deep philosophical thoughts at work, but the spaciousness of these thoughts never intrude upon the enjoyability of the story. It is similar in that way to Bellow's Henderson the Rain King, but the comedy in this is up a few notches more. The story is deeply routed in London (with a side-trip to Paris) and this location no doubt gives all the more joy to readers familiar to the area with its deep descriptions of particular sections and jabs at the reputations of others. Yet, this too did not detract from the book's enjoyability because of the eloquence of her descriptions. \\"When caught unawares,\\" Jake reflects, \\"I usually tell the truth, and what's duller that that.\\" The book is one long reflection and so, according to this line, we are thenceforth suspicious of all we are told. Many points of his memory are probably deeply exaggerated and this would explain some of the all too convenient coincidences. But, who cares? It's a good, entertaining story. Ultimately, Murdoch is presenting a rather ideal view of the independent will of the free spirit. Jake's hope is neatly set forth at the end. But the ideals of living in regards to work and love, wealth and fame seem to be given a manageable frame in which to work in. What Murdoch seems to be saying is that we must be swept along by the course of our own story and not be caught \\"under the net.\\" The old argument which Bellow echoes also of Being and Becoming. Living, not without reflection, but containing the dialogue between oneself and existence within because once it is set out on paper it becomes a story, not life. \\"The substance of my life is a private conversation with myself which to turn into a dialogue would be equivalent to self destruction.\\" Jake is learning to live more fully by instinct and self-forgetfulness. He is learning to allow other people's point of views into his own life. He finds that by constantly looking only within himself he isn't able to see anyone there. The being has left.ning the dialogue between oneself and existence within because once it is set out on paper it becomes a story, not life. \\"The substance of my life is a private conversation with myself which to turn into a dialogue would be equivalent to self destruction.\\" Jake is learning to live more fully by instinct and self-forgetfulness. He is learning to allow other people's point of views into his own life. He finds that by constantly looking only within himself he isn't able to see anyone there. The being has left.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	R289NVX3QS714H	0802135331	373377229	Moon Tiger	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Where the Future Begins	A history of the world. What's said and what's left out. The things and people that construct the world of an individual. The grand events of a civilisation are on an equal level with the detailed actions of human relations and rather than recount a life as a progression it is looked at as a mosaic, focusing on points here and there, gathering the impression of a whole life. The narration jumps between all forms of telling: 1st, 2nd and 3rd person narration recounted events through numerous viewpoints. A focused attention is required throughout the novel to keep track of who is talking and in what point of history they are at in any section. What Claudia is trying to do in this history of the world is an impossibility. She moulds languages to work for her own purposes by using it for multiple perspectives. \\"The power of language. Preserving the ephemeral; giving form to dreams, permanence to sparks of sunlight.\\" The question of how to recall the past is the central issue. Rather than flow through the past as in a stream of conscious novel we're given slabs of moments pitted against each other pointing out the importance of individual emotions. Slowly throughout the novel the reader is made increasingly aware of what isn't being remembered. Claudia's relationship with Tom was on of the most emotionally turbulent times of her life, one she is uncertain of how to recount which is why she avoided writing about Egypt for so long. But once she has recalled it she can begin to leave the past behind and what begins is the future.	2001-01-15
US	48509548	R663EIWNQBY77	0395869463	540961512	The Bookshop	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Precious Bookshop	This was an incredibly enjoyable book to read. Penelope Fitzgerald had a precision with words that make them clear and pleasurable. One of the main themes she explores in this novel is the cosmopolitan view verses the small town sensibility. It was exciting for me to read about the prospect of a new bookshop because I enjoy to read just about anything, but many people whose reading is more selected wouldn't openly welcome the enterprise she tried to initiate. But this novel is patronising at all to people who don't happen to be bookish. It is simply a tale about the struggle of a failed idea. The many small comic and tragic stories that ensue are incredibly engaging. The relationship between Florence and her assistant is very touching. It is a sharp observation of a relationship between two generations. I thoroughly recommend that anyone should sit down in a cosy chair and read this novel.	2001-01-12
US	48509548	R1YIU6AGQTYHR3	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Choosing to Tell	This is an amazing first novel and it is a good introduction to Ishiguro for readers who haven't read his books before. It is so delicately told from the point of view of a woman who has survived WWII. You are given only brief personal glimpses of her life, yet those glimpses spark an enormous amount of questions revealing her to be a woman of deep complexity. You would expect her to be pondering the life of her daughter Keiko, but she spends most of her time remembering the mysterious woman Sachiko who she knew briefly in Nagasaki. Over the course of reading the novel you begin to understand that this is a way for her to process her emotions over her daughter's death. Pondering the mysteries of a woman she can never understand is preferable to admitting the responsibility for her daughter's suicide. Perhaps she contributed in some way to her death? From her obsession with Sachiko and Sachiko's daughter Mariko we understand that she is possibly drawing parallels between the girls. While this mystery looms in the background you are brought deeply into her observations of Sachiko and her story of a single woman trying to survive independently. Through the entire time Ishiguro is very careful about what is and is not given away. He is a master at telling and not telling. The selection that goes into telling has an impact on the way we interpret what is told. In this way he explores human complexities that few other writers are able to dig into. Our view of Etsuko, like our view of Nagasaki, is blurred and from this not quite clear view we understand that this Japanese woman still has a lot more to tell.	2001-01-12
US	48509548	R2G3GJOHMFBFFS	0393303942	695452701	Good Morning, Midnight	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Delicately Violent	It is no wonder that after the publication of this novel people assumed Jean Rhys had committed suicide. It is a dark, introverted, soul-searching novel. It's brilliance lies in the compassion with which Sasha is treated. This is a woman who is unquestionably at the end of her tether. Life occurs almost unconsciously to her. She drinks non-stop and thinks of fashion before eating. But these aren't superficial choices. They are the few soft whispers of a woman about to go over the brink. Throughout the novel you are given brief glimpses of her past as a shop assistant and the troubles in her marriage. In themselves the troubles which result from them are not ample enough to drive a normal woman to such desperation. You feel that the reason for her state of mind is more the result of a profound neglect of her individual spirit by men. She is led on to believe in a progression of being, but is abandoned to clutch at the ghosts of her old haunts in Paris. This is a sharp contrast to the ideas that we have about artistic scene of Paris in this time period. It is a more sincerely concentrated personal experience than most accounts. It is interesting to think of the end in contrast to the jubilant yeses of Molly Bloom in Ulysses. Sasha's yes is one of doom and resignation to a world that has flown past her.<br />Despite its depressing character, this novel is a fascinating look at a tendency to sink into a psychological state often ignored. It is also a subtle portrayal of an identity built on a knife's edge. Luckily, Ms Rhys did survive this novel (however unhappily). It is a miracle that she did considering the violent lack of self worth of Sasha; to have imagined such a person must have been terrifying indeed.	2001-01-11
US	48509548	R154RYHQOF6AAA	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This Classic is Still Burning	This classic dystopian novel must be read by anyone with a passion for literature. It reminds us in enormous sharp signs that books will only maintain an importance in our lives if we keep them actively alive by relating them to our present society.  Montag is like many of us, going through every day life and responding to things in the correct way. When one day he receives a kind of wake up call. Revived to life he struggles with his moral sensibility over whether to abandon his home or remain in a life clustered in routine mindlessness. Clarisse is the beacon of hope in our lives. She is our belief that a common sense will prevail in the wake of senselessness. The depictions of our society as media-drenched placid reflections of ourselves is indeed accurate. In almost every creation Mr Bradbury made in this novel a direct parallel can be found in our society such as Montag's wife's television family where a popular computer game today is call The Sims where you create your own families. The statements he makes aren't much more complicated than that, but it is a powerful message indeed and a highly creative and entertaining story.	2001-01-11
US	48509548	R145R26IGRPE1C	0156767503	346001917	The Road to Wigan Pier	Books	4	12	15	N	N	The Picture Speaks for Itself	This book is divided into two sections. The first is a devastating account of the lives of coal miners in the north of England. While this account may be exaggerated it is completely conceivable that life in this time under such social and political conditions might have been like this. He goes to considerable length to explore the personal reactions and methods of endurance of the people he met. Orwell's dedication to exploring what life was really like for the coal miners was made at considerable personal discomfort and were as heroic as Jonathan Kozol's efforts in our present time.<br />The second half of the book is a long argument by Orwell of the negative aspects of socialism. He does this in order to provoke a serious discussion over how socialism can be implemented in our society. He understood well, as demonstrated in 1984, that many political parties use propaganda as a means of convincing the public that theirs is the right way. But, by taking the opposing view and criticising his own beliefs, he is able to bring the issues of the party into an open forum to consider implementations of change rather than party rhetoric. He does this most sincerely and in no way tries to hide the faults of the socialist political system of thought. In doing so he proves himself to be quite dignified in his system of beliefs. The juxtaposition of these two sections provides a striking idea of the immediate need for political reformation. He did not need to defend socialism because the need for a political change that could effect the lives of the lower class he investigated was obvious. This showed that Orwell's political ideas didn't exist on some ideological utopian plain, but were firmly rooted in the immense danger a political system could inflict upon a large population. It would be wise to remember this in reading the more popular 1984 and Animal Farm as well.<br />This book is compelling not just for people interested in politics, but also for anyone interested in history and the human condition. It is something you will be able to learn much from and provide you with inspiration.story and the human condition. It is something you will be able to learn much from and provide you with inspiration.	2001-01-11
US	48509548	R2W00YJ39XYBD4	042511774X	595375829	Breathing Lessons	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The EXTRA-Ordinary Maggie	Let me tell you why I liked this book. It gave me a different perspective. Although many people (both readers and characters in the book) have criticised her for being one-dimensional I found her to be quite extraordinary. Her sensitivity and sense of place within her family is touching. The reason why her image radiates ordinariness is because everyone has labelled her that way. I found this to be true in the way that people often create labels for others and then the label is accepted as some kind of truth. Maggie may not be a likeable person or even a realistic person you can picture in your life, but certainly everyone can empathise with the tendency people have to suffocate other people with images they have created for them. I don't think Maggie is that simple. If she were than she could never imagine a life outside of her own. But, when she and Ira get in a fight in the car and she demands to be let out she imagines a completely different life for herself. This is the imaginary flight that is carried out in actuality in Ladder of Years. You could say that this is the off-handed daydream of a flat character because it is just as immediately forgotten as it is conjured. However, I think this suggests a more complex state of mind. One which can envision other states of being but consciously rejects them. Incidentally this is a very ordinary trait, one that I imagine many people can sympathise with. In some ways she is more ordinary than most people because she is always actively trying to normalise other people. She is not only suppressed by other people's images of her, but she is trying to mould everyone into the image she wants them to be. Her intentions are always positive. She wants them to be better people and fulfil their potential, but at the same time she is stifling their sense of individual identity by imaging them to inhabit an image that isn't realistic. This is a common difficulty with people who are \\"well-wishers\\". A major reason for why I appreciated this novel so much is because of its comic perspective. While dealing with the difficult relations between people, especially family, it is able to not take itself too seriously. There are incredibly comic moments such as the car accident and when Maggie and Ira are caught making out in the friend's bedroom. Anne Tyler is able to balance the serious and the comic while making shrewd observations about human nature. She shows us we all have the ability to be just like everyone else and wholly our own person at the same time.ated this novel so much is because of its comic perspective. While dealing with the difficult relations between people, especially family, it is able to not take itself too seriously. There are incredibly comic moments such as the car accident and when Maggie and Ira are caught making out in the friend's bedroom. Anne Tyler is able to balance the serious and the comic while making shrewd observations about human nature. She shows us we all have the ability to be just like everyone else and wholly our own person at the same time.	2001-01-11
US	48509548	R4URH2GCGUDQW	0156180650	794361431	A Clergyman's Daughter	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Definitely Not Kansas	It is interesting when thinking of the protagonist in this novel to compare her to Dorothy of The Wizard of OZ. She mysteriously wakes up far away from her home and her claustrophobic small town life. But, unlike Dorothy of Kansas who finds a world of magical wonder, Orwell's Dorothy finds a bleak world of late-industrial England where people are left to survive in the dark corners and from the scraps they can find. It is an adventurous tale of a young woman's survival, but it is also a ripe opportunity for Orwell to critique the social condition of England's underclass. The comments are poignantly made. Orwell also finds his an interesting way to incorporate some stylistic techniques in his fiction that he hasn't explored before. The scene where Dorothy is trying to survive on the streets is written in dramatic dialogue. This creates a greater physical intimacy with the situation that is dramatically created in the mind of the reader. It also enables immediacy with repetitious dialogue like Dorothy's obsession with how cold the cold can be. Like Dorothy of Kansas's journey, this is meant to be a journey of self-discovery. It is up to the reader to decide whether she has learned anything. It is one of Orwell's best novels, though not his most subtle.	2001-01-10
US	48509548	R15RQEPJL3J6UK	0156148501	43278951	Burmese Days: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Strong Novel Still Relevant Today	This novel explores the difficult racial issues surrounding colonialized Burma from a perspective that was obviously intensely personal for Orwell. What's interesting is the way in which these issues relate to our culture today. The debate over Affirmative Action bears a strong resemblance to the disagreements of the white colonials with the officials. Flory whose devotion to cultural difference is touching, if somewhat simplistic, and brings this story alive. Orwell is always good at cutting to the heart of the matter realising that our most intense difficulties over racial and social difference are basedon simplistic attitudes. He represents this well in the case of Elizabeth whose interest in cultural difference is based more in a stereotype than the actual culture. The romance is an interesting exploration of Orwell's tentative attitude toward women, but is also essentially a debate over whether to side with the one's culture of origin or maintain a respect for the culture upon which you haveviolently intruded. Flory's inadequicy is a strong symbol of guilt over the imperialist regime he is forced to enforce and actively practice but can never fully accept. The novel will never strike you as being directly political, but more about the difficulty of accepting one'sown individual idea of identity within the influence of social propaganda. It explores more fully all of the issues Orwell condensed in his essay Shooting an Elephant'.	2001-01-10
US	48509548	RF4LRH6LUDPNN	0156468999	283082677	Keep the Aspidistra Flying	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Deeper Side of Orwell	I believe that this novel is Orwell's most personal. It certainly encompasses many of the socialist issues he so vehemently fought for throughout his life. But it also shows a more deeply sentimental side to him that is rarely seen in his other fiction. Gordon's obsessive fight to loosen money's control over him is a battle for independence and artistic freedom. His fight to become independent in the greater society inevitably fails because he cannot ignore that fact that he is a product and part of that society.  The scene where he goes to a restaurant in the country with Rosemary is one of the most heartbreaking because it demonstrates the unbreakable bind to society's laws that he feels and the tendency of people to be completely conventional in circumstances where they are trying to be extraordinary. The novel is important because it is a picture of compromised values for the sake of society's morality. The moral sensibility within us is the unkillable Aspidistra. You feel in some ways that Orwell is making a tribute here to the ideals that he has had to sacrifice in order to live a civilised life. The picture is not as bleak as all that. There is room for personal expression and convictions. At least, there certainly was in Orwell's own life if not in Gordon's. It is a short, beautifully written novel that will give you immense pleasure.	2001-01-10
US	48509548	R278F3R8UXZ3MN	0449911594	1665039	Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Center of the Family	This is a delicate loving piece of fiction. What is harder in life than to try to understand the perspective of the other people in our family? Anne Tyler gives us an intimate look at each of the family member's thoughts and from this we draw a large picture of a complex set of family relations. Where else does a family join together but the dinner table? It is a spot of joyous reunions and a catalyst for causing severe fractures, but it is a place where every person in the family ultimately returns. By placing this at the center of her tale she is able to jump of on all the character's many stories. This novel makes you reconsider the point of view of people in your family you might have given up on. Your sympathy always goes with Ezra, forever trying to hold the family together. But you also learn to see the perspective of the other members through hearing small poignant details of their lives from Pearl's apple apple apple to the devastating reunion and confrontation with the missing father at the end. Their actions aren't just quirky details, but strong philosophies by which they live and rich points of difference that cause friction in their relations. This is handled with tremendous sympathy and understanding by the author. Anyone who has had strained relations with members of their family will be able to relate to this book and be wildly entertained by its twists and turns.	2001-01-09
US	48509548	RP03HQGOWLPK1	0452279445	493663435	Andorra	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Dark Land of the Mind	Andorra is a compelling and beautifully written mystery. It is about a murder about to happen and one that already has happened, but it is mostly about forgetting and running away from a past that cannot be faced. La Plata is not a real place, but an ideal land to run to in your mind to live peacefully when the world becomes violent. Still the imagination which Mr Cameron uses to describe this fantasy land is powerful and descriptively beautiful. Amidst the grim background of the story there are surprisingly fun and quirky observations. Who would think to write an operatic version of The Immoralist? In this author's strange and surreal imaginary land people can give way to eccentricities in searching for an understanding of themselves and there are quite a few surprises that follow.	2001-01-09
US	48509548	R1NVRHAWIEC0R0	0802131654	465761878	The Voyeur	Books	4	23	30	N	N	Eyes Like Daggers	This novel seems much longer than it actually is. The \\"action\\" is dragged out and you begin to find Mathias' obsessive plans to sell his watches tedious, but there is something oddly compelling about it that makes you read on. Lingering behind his figure eight strategies is the death of a disreputable girl and this is what keeps you on the edge of your seat, sick with worry and anxiety. Even though we are following Mathias incredibly closely in all his movements we still don't feel we know him. This is largely because we are made to understand that Mathias doesn't know anything about himself. There is a distinction made between \\"the salesman\\" and Mathias. It indicates there is an impersonal aspect to him we will never know. He is constantly being made into an impersonal and stereotypical type of person and the reader is forced to search for details that will connect him with a personal experience. His past is portrayed as an impenetrable muddy mess.  \\"it was useless trying to stir up his memories, he didn't even know what he should be looking for.\\" You gather that the world will in a sense always remain unknowable because of our limited personal perspective. In a sense each person's perception causes harm to what they perceive by limiting it by our own values and labels. This is the murderer and the mystery is how to disassemble our own code of perception. This novel is a fascinating exploration of these ideas and a pleasure to read.	2001-01-09
US	48509548	RMVDO5VX8MO57	0449910571	376970861	Ladder of Years: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Ever Want to Walk Away???	Delia does what we all wish we could do at some point in our lives. She walks out on her life. Not because it's terrible or too hard, but because you feel like it. Who knows what the reason is? You need a change. You want to see what else is out there. The question of why will eat away at your mind while reading this novel and you'll never find a suitable answer. What Anne Tyler does in this novel is build a fictional story within a story. This woman creates a little world within her own world in which she feels space to breathe. A small apartment with a local library: what a perfect little escape. Every small action she performs within this world has something tremendously sacred attached to it because it belongs wholly to her. It is a chance for her to find out who she is again. After so many years of living in the role of a mother and having that image dominate the way in which people look at her, she is able to stand in the mirror and see herself as an independent woman. We should all be allowed small opportunities of selfishness from time to time. Delia is simply making up for lost time with the time she takes away from her family. You might think that it is inevitable she would return to her old life, but it isn't. It is her decision if she wants to go back or not and it is a hard one. This is the thrilling thing about this novel and it is why it is one of my favorite. Along with Delia, you are in completely unfamiliar territory where you feel the central character is empowered to direct her own destiny rather than the author or any of the other characters in the novel. You discover that we all have the choice to plunge into a well of potential and remerge as someone completely new. Each person is first and always in charge of whom he or she wants to be and if he or she needs to take dramatic measures to reclaim his or her identity than he or she should.	2001-01-08
US	48509548	R1JSFW9GIHDXGB	0385479484	944864152	The Short History of a Prince: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Than a Story About a Boy From a Small Town	Walter McCloud is boy who has had to suffer the suppression and unjust treatment of living in a small community. Then why does he move to a small community to live when he's older? In an age where urbanisation seems to be the only safe-haven for gay men Walter is trying to achieve a normalcy amidst a world that has pre-labelled him abnormal. But it is not a gay-story (though that is a big part of the story). It is a tale of a young man trying to find his place in society and in his own family. Small town life is a major theme of Ms Hamilton's. What I think she is trying to get at is a desire of people in society today to achieve a state of normalcy that is almost a parody of what the ideal notion of normal is. It's trying to act and live in a way that is domestic and provincial in the face of a world that is continually pushing toward globalisation.<br />The touching thing about Walter is that he has experienced many feelings that so many of us can relate to. The scenes between he and his brother dying of Hodgkin's Disease are some of the most intimate because the feelings portrayed are layered with hate and love. Also his secret desire for his childhood best friend is moving for anyone who has experience unrequited love. Sometimes the movement in time and range of characters will threaten to make you lose your place in the narrative, but the relationships Walter shares with others strike me a truly complex in his desire to leave them and become them simultaneously.	2001-01-08
US	48509548	R2TRZ6HVPZY70L	0571203299	164241000	Timbuktu	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Powerful Message from a Little Corner	I can't help thinking about this book without knowing it was published around the same time as Auster's friend DeLillo published Underworld. It is an interesting juxtaposition because Underworld is such a grand novel making huge statements about society and Timbuktu is such a small novel focusing on a forgotten corner of one little dog's life. People familiar with Auster's fiction will recognise many familiar themes and will enjoy Auster's beautiful style of writing as always. But you will be surprised by the small bursts of personal emotion which are threaded through Mr Bones' tale. You envision the tale winding down into a simple case of a brilliant book of poetry lost to the world (a common idea of Auster's), but it turns into something much more complex. It is a story of human relations and loss. It is about personal change and survival. These issues naturally explode into much larger issues, but they are maintained in a touchingly small way throughout Mr Bones' various observations of human life. This novel won't change your life but you'll certainly enjoy the ride of emotions.	2001-01-05
US	48509548	R2P5RP2T02XFD8	0679748156	669299751	The Longest Journey	Books	4	11	16	N	N	The Modernist Makes it Personal	The Longest Journey's suspicious form and strange conclusions were quite accurately detected by Lionel Trilling who declared this novel in comparison to Forster's others to be his least perfect, least compact, least precisely formed and, simultaneously, his most brilliant, most dramatic, and most passionate. Such a multi-faceted existence is an exact indication of the risky and unfamiliar lines upon which modernists walked. One can assume that Trilling considered A Passage to India to be the wiser and more perfect of Forster's novels in comparison. Where A Passage to India is socio-political, The Longest Journey is personal. The philosophical issues portrayed can be interpreted as being in dialogue with Forster's fellow scholars, pontificating upon the arguments of his academic circles. Scholars who engaged with these same philosophical arguments will no doubt warm to the affable and ironical gestures Forster uses to argue his case.<br />The structure in which Forster composes The Longest Journey sometimes borders on an obsessive control of the novel's plot and particularly the characters. As the events of the story unfold, we see the frame leading us to a central statement about the human condition. The overemphasis of these points crowded with immense symbolism leads us to question the effectiveness of Forster's statements. Particular points in the story, such as Rickie's realisation that Stephen is his half brother and the reintroduction of Ansell teamed with Stephen, leave us in a troublesome position asking whether this highly personal story was sacrificed to the musically fluent style Forster was working. The Longest Journey's most difficult problem is that it introduces itself as a modernist novel whose commitment is to style, yet its story is obviously Forster's personal account of a series of emotions and events in his own life.<br /> The narrator's voice and Rickie's are essentially interchangeable. The only difference between the two is that the narrator is consciously aware of what Rickie's subconscious knows, but can't admit. If Rickie were so closely intertwined with the authorial voice, then it would seem that there is no room for intimacy with the reader. Yet, the story redeems itself through Rickie's struggle because it is so personal in its metaphysical complications. It is only later in the story, as it drifts farther away from Rickie's consciousness that the emotional impact lets go and we are left wandering through labyrinths of overt symbolic designs. The design in which Rickie is brought to his end is ultimately unfulfilling because the tragedy of the human condition makes itself so poignantly clear when the story is brought full circle to the ending ominously predicted from the outset. Instead, we are asked to accept that no life is tragic because of the enduring factor a human's spiritual hope. If Stephen were created as a character more complicated than a pastoral hero, then this resolution might be effective. However, in the troublesome structure it exists in, it falls short of an enlightening resolution.<br /> Within the complex faults that unfold from an authorial voice inseparable from a central character's consciousness, there is a meaning that resounds through. Apart from stylistic concerns, the modernists were intensely concerned about the human's existential crisis that results from an awareness of the bleak resistance to have faith in either scientific or theological assertions. Rickie is the only vehicle with which we can understand and interpret the complicity of an early twentieth century man's reality. The other characters exist as mere paper figures that serve stilted plot functions. It is through Rickie alone that we understand this particular metaphysical crisis. These sentiments are what make The Longest Journey an important work of modernist fiction in the historical sense. Its theoretical importance lies in the fact of its mismatched structural and sentimental tale's existence.<br />There is an odd coincidence between symbols he and other modernist writers use. For example, Rickie hangs a towel over a painted harp in the room he is sleeping in at Ansell's house just as Woolf wrote about Mrs. Ramsay hanging her shawl over the skull hanging in the children's bedroom. The symbolic meaning of this can be interpreted in various ways. Yet, in Woolf's writing the meaning makes itself abundantly more clear because the style with which she works supersedes the story in To the Lighthouse. This is why To the Lighthouse is a more successful modernist experiment. A writer that does not work within the laws of the form in which they are working will inevitably fail in their efforts. Forster does not seem to be ignorant of these laws, but he is so enthusiastic about the application of them that his obsessive use of the stylistics becomes rather inappropriate.<br /> Forster often declaimed himself as \\"not a great novelist\\". The reason he felt this was probably because he was not able to abide by the standards that he himself set as the qualifications for great novels. This is, at least, the primary objection to be made toward The Longest Journey. In Aspects of the Novel Forster writes, \\"The novelist who betrays too much interest in his own method can never be more than interesting; he has given up the creation of character and summoned us to help analyse his own mind, and a heavy drop in the emotional thermometer results\\".  The obsessive control of style as an opposition to the driving story he wanted to tell in The Longest Journey proves to be a fatal merging of a novelist who wants to keep with the artistic innovations of his time. Forster is too aware of his use of stylistic method to make the novel a wholly satisfactory piece of literature. Yet, because there is so much of Forster in the novel, it remains a very interesting book to serious and passionate readers.<br />There is an odd coincidence between symbols he and other modernist writers use. For example, Rickie hangs a towel over a painted harp in the room he is sleeping in at Ansell's house just as Woolf wrote about Mrs. Ramsay hanging her shawl over the skull hanging in the children's bedroom. The symbolic meaning of this can be interpreted in various ways. Yet, in Woolf's writing the meaning makes itself abundantly more clear because the style with which she works supersedes the story in To the Lighthouse. This is why To the Lighthouse is a more successful modernist experiment. A writer that does not work within the laws of the form in which they are working will inevitably fail in their efforts. Forster does not seem to be ignorant of these laws, but he is so enthusiastic about the application of them that his obsessive use of the stylistics becomes rather inappropriate. <br /> Forster often declaimed himself as \\"not a great novelist\\". The reason he felt this was probably because he was not able to abide by the standards that he himself set as the qualifications for great novels. This is, at least, the primary objection to be made toward The Longest Journey. In Aspects of the Novel Forster writes, \\"The novelist who betrays too much interest in his own method can never be more than interesting; he has given up the creation of character and summoned us to help analyse his own mind, and a heavy drop in the emotional thermometer results\\".  The obsessive control of style as an opposition to the driving story he wanted to tell in The Longest Journey proves to be a fatal merging of a novelist who wants to keep with the artistic innovations of his time. Forster is too aware of his use of stylistic method to make the novel a wholly satisfactory piece of literature. Yet, because there is so much of Forster in the novel, it remains a very interesting book to serious and passionate readers.	2001-01-05
US	48509548	RHCOAZSZJ3M4T	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Acting Roles &amp; Creating Stories	The reader of Ulysses is forced to continually reassert his perspective and understanding of point of view when reading the text. The narrative frequently shifts in perspective between Stephen, Bloom, the citizens of Dublin and a faceless narrator operating on levels internal and external. Language is used directly in speech and substantiation, as well as symbolically in mental thought and acquires transcendental meaning in grammatical and spelling reconfiguration.<br /> Stephen's typological character is self-defined in Telemachus as that of a servant. As he explains to Haines, \\"I am the servant of two masters... the imperial British state... and the holy Roman catholic and apostolic church.\\" Whether this servitude is literal or self-inflicted, we do not know. We know from Mulligan's remonstrations of Stephen's actions at his dying mother's bedside that Stephen has struggled with the Catholic faith. We know from Haines' knowledge of Gaelic over the milkwoman's that there is a level of intellectual and political dominance in place. We also know this from Haines' self admission, \\"We feel in England that we have treated you rather unfairly. It seems history is to blame.\\" This is exactly a point where a reading of Ulysses accompanied by a fair knowledge of the political relationship of England to Ireland and an understanding of the rise of Nationalism during the time in which the novel was placed could add a good deal of understanding to the depths of the characters relations. This will continue to be the case throughout the novel as there are countless allusions to the history of the church and Ireland. There are frequent references by Stephen of historical heroes such as Pyrrhhus, Moses and Parnell who were frustrated while trying to lead a certain people out of bondage. The purpose of these references culminates in the important discussion between Stephen and Bloom toward the end of Ithica about Moses Maimonides and the chanting of the 113th psalm which celebrates the escape of the children of Israel from Egypt. These historic and theological references are important counterpoints to Stephen who in Telemachus declares himself not to be a hero. Though the narrative of the first few chapters can be followed fairly consistently without historic knowledge of this kind, in the later chapters the narrative will cease to make much sense when references are cited and counterpoised to create specific intellectual and sociological meanings in the lives of the characters. Once a fact or idea is raised it will surely resurface at a later time in the thoughts of a character and will be mulled over ad infinitum. It is the discourse of the narrative that gives the best illumination into the classification of characters.<br /> Not only does Joyce span the forms of narrative from dialogue to subconscious hallucination, but also he twists the structure of language and words themselves to reassign meaning to language tools whose original purpose was to have a definitive meaning. Consider the final functional unit of the novel. Molly begins her soliloquy with the internal declaration, \\"Yes because he never did a thing like that before as ask to get his breakfast in bed.\\" The entire soliloquy could be labeled as the indicial knowledge which feeds into the question: will Molly bring Bloom's breakfast to their bed in the morning? However, in the course of this long final narrative the question is eclipsed by the question: will Molly continue to be unfaithful to Bloom? Directly after this is established, it is tempting to speculate about the meaning of the narrative rather than cling to the rules of understanding its structure. Before this point in the narrative we have only had a very short encounter with Molly. The most we have gathered about her character is that of an object of desire. This image is both reinforced and destroyed by her final soliloquy. The answer concerning the original question of breakfast appears to be in the positive as Mollyhas expressed disappointment in her lover and a remembered passion of her vow to Bloom. This speculation gives a more refined meaning to the narrative as a whole implying a cyclical nature to Dublin life. Molly will bring Bloom his breakfast and he will leave on another journey throughout Dublin leaving her to remain in the bedchamber as an image in the lascivious imagination of the world. This seems to be the consensus of overall criticism of Ulysses. But, as it seems the day of Ulysses was the first day Molly had an affair, this suggests daily life isn't as static as it might first appear and people have the propensity to break from their assigned roles. This is especially true as with Stephen, whose role was to find a father figure or a \\"home\\" in the novel, but Stephen leaves him/it when the discovery is made. Creating final and definitive answers to Ulysses meaning is impossible and we should remain aware of this in conjunction with our methods of reading.y has expressed disappointment in her lover and a remembered passion of her vow to Bloom. This speculation gives a more refined meaning to the narrative as a whole implying a cyclical nature to Dublin life. Molly will bring Bloom his breakfast and he will leave on another journey throughout Dublin leaving her to remain in the bedchamber as an image in the lascivious imagination of the world. This seems to be the consensus of overall criticism of Ulysses. But, as it seems the day of Ulysses was the first day Molly had an affair, this suggests daily life isn't as static as it might first appear and people have the propensity to break from their assigned roles. This is especially true as with Stephen, whose role was to find a father figure or a \\"home\\" in the novel, but Stephen leaves him/it when the discovery is made. Creating final and definitive answers to Ulysses meaning is impossible and we should remain aware of this in conjunction with our methods of reading.	2001-01-05
US	48509548	R3FKAJIV6172MJ	0140255249	996403615	Shadow Dance	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Beauty is in the Eye	This novel is a peripheral view of monsters. One monster being Honeybuzzard, the nasty showy boy who routs through abandoned buildings and takes girls for granted. And the other is the once beautiful girl who has been horribly disfigured and looms in the background of much of this novel as a threatening figure. We see this through Morris, the good-natured but morally corrupt man who tends to mix himself up in trouble. This book introduces a lot of the central themes Angela Carter works with in her later novels. What is truly poignant about it is its setting in the counties of England in a place Carter will depart from and never return in her worldly travels of fiction. Although all of her fiction is concerned with the ways in which women are perceived and treated by society, this novel is the most concerned with an awareness of the violence which accompanies the feminine. The monsters are, as always, really storybook characters, the big bad wolf chasing little red riding hood. But, again like always, under Carter's hand they are not so plastic as that. Each character is innocent and guilty, virtuous and corrupt, powerful and weak. It is because we hold within us these binaries that we are human and so sympathetically related to all the characters of the fairy tales because we have the capacity within us for extreme emotions.  Honeybuzzard says: \\"I like - you know - to slip in and out of me. I would like to be somebody different every morning. Me and not me. I would like to have a cupboard bulging with all different bodies and faces and choose a fresh one every morning.\\" The identities that people wear shift constantly and if we aren't attentive to the way in which they change we will be damaged. The mystery of this novel is not the morality of the terrible deformation of the woman, but whether she is truly beautiful or ugly.  And, of course, she and we are both.	2001-01-04
US	48509548	R20CCS6Z3KT207	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What world do you see?	It is good to see that in this novel Saramago has finally been able to completely dispose of the uncomfortable names for things which plague his earlier work. I only say this because he always sounds so uncomfortable having to name something in his fiction. I believe this is because the concepts he is working with are so specific that to name people and places generalise them. The opposite is usually true, but what I think Saramago is trying to do is write of preoccupations that are so personal they encompass the preoccupations of our entire society. What greater preoccupation can we have as a society but the extermination of the entire human population? Instead of approaching this subject by speaking of atom bombs or space monsters, he lays the destruction in our on hands (or eyes). Handicapped people rely on others to assimilate them to a society that is entirely functional, but what if the entire society becomes handicapped? The individual response is unable to support the society and destruction ensues. As the destruction unfolds we are able to get a harsh look at the many base injustices that continue to survive in our society unnamed. Yet, if what he is saying is such a strong critique of society than why is everything in the novel so personal? Despite the character's states of being nameless things with professions or roles only, you begin to acquire sensitivity for the characters of each of the people discussed. You forget that the group that bands together in the plague of blindness is a microcosm of society and are drawn into each of their complex psychological dilemmas that result as the illness. To survive you must accept things as they are. It is a fight for survival and you understand from reading the novel that you must become aware of your own blindness to things or you will be lost in the chaos of mediocrity.	2001-01-03
US	48509548	R2JFIWJTEIBQ5Z	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Anyone Who Loves Woolf Will Love The Hours	This was written by a man who loves Woolf and if you love her writing like I do then you'll thoroughly enjoy this novel. The writing is poetically charmed with emotion and wit. While following the stories of these three different touching women you'll slowly become aware of Virginia's famous rooks circling above their heads threatening death and change, terror and peace, permanence and rebirth. Mr Cunningham tugs at a spiritual thread that runs through their lives. You can feel it with the sincerest sympathy. Not only do you get a compelling portrait of the way our perception of women have changed over the century, but you feel the dilemmas of life's uncertainties in all their horror and beauty.	2001-01-02
US	48509548	RZUHK88JKXDTY	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Thrilling Artistic Quest	I found this book very entertaining. The story is engaging and the protagonist is well rounded. You are drawn into his dilemma of wanting to make his fame and fortune. Any student could relate to his desire for procrastinating on his work by following a fanciful idea about an undiscovered treasure. I found his system of rational to be amusing and the way he carries out his theoretical ideas verses his wife's a touching way to pull the characters along. The fact that it is probably going to be made at the expense of a couple women is what makes the story more complex. You want to tell him that he can have a comfortable and happy rural living with his plump wife. You know eventually he will go back to her. The question is whether he will survive the experience. It was really thrilling when it became a matter of life or death. Of course, the story is a clich&eacute; and the narrator admits this in the beginning. You are always conscious that you are being told a story, but it is a very engaging one.	2001-01-02
US	48509548	RU69THHANLSU6	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Top Mixture	When We Were Orphans is a delightful mixture of Ishiguro's early and late styles of writing. Following on from his experimental The Unconsoled, it works with elements of chance and random selection as a way of propelling the story. But it also incorporates his masterful style of writing about a character who confesses nothing but shows everything which he used in his first three novels. This mixture of style is bringing his fiction past new boundaries and while the effect feels strange you also feel that you are presented with a rich picture of a person's identity. Many people have criticized the central character of Christopher because they feel his profession isn't believable. This would be true if his profession weren't simply an artifice to his prime motive as a character. That is to rediscover his parents and homeland. The result is that you discover a solid identity can't be re-gained but is perpetually created within the movement of history. Rather than view Christopher's profession as a narrative trick, think of it as a performance of which the character is unaware.	2000-12-18
US	48509548	RH31ZPSHHBTDJ	080211671X	72627568	How the Dead Live	Books	4	1	3	N	N	How the Dead Live	Will Self is renowned for being the &quot;bad boy&quot; of fiction and this book follows that reputation. No novel about the afterlife can fail to make large obvious ideological statements about the living. Still, that doesn't take away from the pleasure of this book. Self is makes some moving statements about the female and Jewish identity. He is harsh to them because our culture is still racist and sexist in many ways we don't consciously recognize. You'll find this novel very enjoyable because it is filled with a lovely kind of dark humor.	2000-12-18
US	48509548	R4Y6IHLFB05RY	0375411143	930101336	The Biographer's Tale	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Researching Identity?	This is a very literary book and an entertaining story, but you have to be in the mood. It is saturated with in-jokes. The long biographical bits can be very tedious if you don't like random bits of curious facts. It can easily be seen as pretentious. What grabbed me was that this novel is about the obsessive need to understand and possess another's identity. How much do we need to know to understand someone and what do we do when that understanding is found? Is history fixed or malleable? No answers are possible and this novel concedes to that point. It conveys a deep understanding that all this knowledge that we desperately acquire to know another must be gathered and dropped simultaneously if we are to gain any idea about another person's identity.	2000-12-18
US	48509548	R2X4CBENXU53TL	0374175403	96429552	In America	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Depth of Character	You can't ignore the self-consciousness of the author in this book, but in away she deals with this and does away with it in the prologue. The mystery of this book is the borderline between Sontag's consciousness and the protagonists. What it is really about is the violation and domination of the minds of others. Not only is the protagonist an actress as a character but a historical person acting out her consciousness through Sontag's mind. Rather than some mystical conjuring act this is an active method of recreating ideals. The feminine ideal is an endless performer: one who is constantly made-up and at the same time natural. It is this contradiction which is explored in the protagonist's life. Sontag is testing the merge of actor (ficional being) and actual person. The performer is inevitably lost, but paradoxically in this novel the performer is pushed back on stage. Is this where she naturally belongs? This is what you should ask going into In America. It is about ideas concerning identity and its conclusions are highly sophisticated.	2000-12-12
US	48509548	R2WMSO4UV1564S	0140033327	124251452	A Fairly Honourable Defeat	Books	3	1	8	N	N	A Lovely Exploration	Murdoch is good at using a conventional structure of narrative to explore pressing dilemmas. She does this very well in this novel, but more than in some of her other novels you are more conscious in A Fairly Honourable Defeat of being drawn along a philosophical argument. The characters are lively and entertaining. You will really enjoy the story and it will provoke you to think about the ways in which we view relationships. But you will probably also become conscious that you must sympathise with the monster and mistrust the faithful hero. I felt at times a need to forget, but the way in which the narrative is structured you are not really allowed to do this. Unfortunately, this characteristic of narrative doesn't function in the same way as it does in Angela Carter's fiction. A main conclusion you draw from reading this novel is that if commitment is something that is fixed it is already lost. It is a lesson that is tragically learned in this novel.	2000-12-12
US	48509548	RJBFVN6MMNKGR	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What you would give to let it go...	This is a book that can't be ignored if you want to be considered by anyone to be a &quot;serious&quot; reader, but it shouldn't be ignored. The truth is it is endless entertaining and enlightening. Though you need to spend many hours with it, you'll leave with a lot more than a great name to add to the list of authors you've read. You'll never let it go.	2000-12-12
US	48509548	R3J6YZMXSX916M	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What a Baffling Piece of Wonder	This novel emotionally gripped me more than any I had read for a long time. Any struggle between adults where the child is at the center inevitably causes your heartstrings to be pulled, but this novel explores the deep perversion of our greedy selfishness. How strange then to be totally let bewildered by the ending. I was amazed through the book at how Mr Oe carved such a delicately monstrous situation and psychological conflict only to be relieved by a simplistic personal positivism. It was as if he had popped the balloon that had so carefully blown full. It leaves a deeply peculiar taste in the mouth.	2000-12-12
US	48509548	R1JRW7D24GZ4G	0140178139	317388917	Leviathan	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Auster's Most Underrated	I've read all of Auster's fiction and, though his material surveys a wide variety of styles and subject matter, this novel is my favourite. I hesitate to call it his most intelligent, but the issues it explores are highly contemporary and provocative. The characters are very among his most original. You leave feeling very close to them and the issues they are dealing with.	2000-12-11
