US	48584321	R18FS9Q4LYWFAP	0679762582	676845016	Memoirs of Elizabeth Frankenstein	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a more feminine re-telling of a feminist classic	Theodore Roszak wrote _The Memoirs of Elizabeth Frankenstein_ to further explore the character that Mary Shelley based on herself in _Frankenstein_:  the foster sister and wife of the scientist main character.  Roszak is eerily accurate in his portrayal of some of the most difficult female emotional situations (menstruation, childbirth, and rape), and I loved his invocation of the Reason versus Nature and God versus Science conflicts.<br />However, Roszak took some risks by choosing the same narrator as Shelley did.  By allowing Robert Walton to re-tell the story (upon finding Elizabeth's journals), the deletion of important characters seems even more glaring.  Victor's youngest brother, William, was completely left out, and as a result so was the character Justine, who had come to stay with the family.  Also never mentioned was Victor Frankenstein's best friend Clavel.  Both William and Clavel were victims of his creation before Elizabeth, but were left out by Roszak which marred my enjoyment of the novel somewhat.<br />For the most part however, I found _The Memoirs of Elizabeth Frankenstein_ to be a fascinating read and a wonderful study of a classic work of literature.  The most amazing statement lies at the very heart of the novel:  the desired result of the alchemic union Victor's mother was planning between Victor and Elizabeth was to stop the masculinization of science.  I think Mary Shelley would have understood that.	2004-03-24
US	48584321	R23ZUOP67YID1L	0385730586	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	i want these magical pants!	I am 30, and I read this book because my MOM recommended it to me!  Obviously, Ann Brashares' writing has universal appeal.  _The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants_ is about four 15 year old best friends who must spend the summer apart for the first time, and the Pants, found in a thrift store and magical because they fit all four girls perfectly, are sent from girl to girl to take part in their (mis)adventures.  Carmen visits her father in the south and is in for an unpleasant surprise; Lena spends some confusing time with her grandparents in Italy; Bridget is a shooting star at soccer camp; Tibby stays in Maryland (home) to work at a chain drugstore and makes some unlikely new friends.<br />Each chapter begins with a quote from sources as varied as James Joyce and Beck, and each girl's voice is fresh and believable.  My only criticism would be that the traveling independence that these teenagers  enjoy seems more fitting for those in college than for girls with two years of high school left:  \\"She left a note for her mom on the kitchen table... took a bus to the airport, where she picked up an expensive round-trip ticket that she'd reserved last night with her father's 'emergencies and books' credit card... she slept peacefully across three seats on the two-hour flight to Charleston... then she took a cab to the Episcopal church on Meeting Street.\\"  Considering that I'm twice as old as this character I'm sure I'm behind the times, but when I was 15 I had to ask permission to go across town to a friend's house, and to this day I'd probably have a hard time hopping a plane by myself and getting a cab in an unfamiliar city.<br />That small item aside, I truly loved this book and was moved to tears more than once.  I recommend it to anyone of any age and eagerly look forward to reading the next installment in the Pants saga.	2004-03-18
US	48584321	R1VAA8FHZ6RU0W	0399150498	7666598	The Effect of Living Backwards	Books	3	6	9	N	N	weird, weird, so very weird.	I can definitely understand the 1 or 2 star ratings being given this book by other amazon.com reviewers; I have very mixed feelings about it myself.  There were parts I enjoyed:  the interplay between the two sisters, the interesting post-Sept.11 theorizing, the fact that the confusing plot did draw me in and didn't want to let go.  What I didn't enjoy was that the reader can never distinguish what is real and what is not, who is \\"good\\" and who is \\"bad,\\"  whether the whole hijacking was set up as a study on how passengers react to certain aspects of terrorism or whether the whole BOOK was set up to see how readers react to certain aspects of bizarre and overzealous writing.<br />I liked the terrorist attacks on the US being referred to as \\"The Big Terrible\\" (which Julavits credits to Thomas Freidman in her acknowledgements) rather than the ubiqutous \\"9-11,\\" and I also liked the creative hijacking story of a rugby team overpowering their captors and crashing the plane when it wasn't necessary (resulting in stickers posted in all airplanes saying WHEN TO OVERPOWER YOUR HIJACKERS).  However, much of the writing about the terrorism school seemed contrived, as though Julavits was trying a little too hard, and the battle between the two factions there didn't make a lot of sense to me.<br />_The Effect of Living Backwards_ certainly held my interest, and in all I'd say that it was a good read.  At times the writing was just a little hard to wade through... and I'm still trying to decide if the effort was worth it.	2004-03-16
US	48584321	R3ITYMB099N41C	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	0	1	N	N	the most refreshingly inventive book i've ever read	From the moment I heard about this book and its subject matter, I was dying to read it... and I was not disappointed.  This murder mystery/ family drama is written from the perspective of Christopher Boone,  a fifteen year old with autism, and his voice is so real and authentic that as  I read I would forget that intellectually normal Mark Haddon was the author and not Christopher himself.<br />When Christopher finds his neighbor's dog, Wellington, impaled on the lawn with a garden fork, he is accused of the crime, mainly due to the police officer's misunderstanding of his autistic behavior.  Before Christopher's father comes to pick him up from the station and he is exonerated, he decides that, like his hero Sherlock Holmes, he will discover who really killed the dog in spite of being warned not to &quot;meddle&quot;.<br />Christopher is a genius at math and has a photographic memory; yet he cannot stand to be touched.  He loves prime numbers and the chapters in the book (which is actually in the form of a journal which his counselor at school encourages him to keep), are numbered that way instead of the usual 1 - 2 - 3.  He has a hard time feeling and relating, yet as Christophter delves deeper into the mystery, he learns many unpleasant surprises about his own family and takes many risks to try to make things right.<br />_The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time_ is exquisitely rendered, complete with drawings and diagrams, in a pure and authentic voice of an autistic teen coming of age.  Besides being wonderfully entertaining, the novel is also educational as I feel I now have new insight into a very misunderstood disorder.  Completely original and thoroughly enjoyable.	2004-03-15
US	48584321	R1AO9VQE2177CU	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	names may be changed to protect the not-so innocent	When this book first came out, I had no desire to read  _The Nanny Diaries_ due to the publicity and its seeming to be the latest in a long line of Bridget Jones-spawned \\"women's literature\\" novels.  I also knew long in advance that I would probably love it in spite of myself (just as I adored _Bridget Jones' Diary_).  So when it came into the coffee shop/used bookstore where I work, I snagged it and thought it was probably time.  And I was right, I did love it.<br />The story and its statement about the very wealthy and their children is actually a sad one, and that message is well conveyed, but the voice of the generically-named \\"Nanny\\" is absolutely hilarious and right on target.  She loves the child she is caring for (Grayer), and in order to protect his emotional well-being she must sometimes subtly circumvent the instructions of the neurotic and absent \\"Mrs. X\\".  This puts her in a very bad position which is stated early on:  \\"to do this job well is to lose it.\\"<br />I very much liked the anonymity McLaughlin and Kraus gave their fictional characters:  there is of course \\"Nanny\\" the nanny, her love interest \\"H.H.\\" (for Harvard Hottie),  and the employer family \\"X.\\"  It brings home the feeling that the authors are writing about similar situations that did happen to them, and the nannycam diatribe at the end smacks of everything every nanny has ever wanted to scream at her employers but has never dared.  This book may not be added to the literary canon anytime soon, but it is interesting, witty, compassionate, and impossible to stop reading once you've started.	2004-03-14
US	48584321	R3VOHWW5QH2D7X	0679744711	216030075	Another Country	Books	5	11	13	N	N	the universal language of love	This is an extremely intense, beautiful, and believable book about the complicated textures of relationships.  Not only about the \\"typical\\" man-woman union, Baldwin's richly woven story also contains homosexual and bisexual relationships; inter-racial relationships; intricate and deeply explored male friendships; and, to a lesser degree (though with no less accuracy), the careful dance of women's friendships.  The relationship between blacks and whites.  The relationship between racists and non-racists.  The relationship between the rich and the poor, between sell-outs and non sell-outs.  So much is touched upon and examined in this novel that the 436 pages seem more like 600, and by the end I found myself taking notes.  But the complexity was not at all daunting.  Because of Baldwin's deep (but never boring) detailing and because of the fact that all of these topics are limited to the lives of six main characters, I was completely enthralled and moved, and often had to pause to consider my own feelings and viewpoints.<br />To me, this book is amazing simply because James Baldwin is able to make a thirty year old midwestern girl feel as though she thoroughly knows and understands a fictional group of struggling and eclectic writers and musicians from 1960's New York City.  With _Another Country_, so aptly titled because Rufus, Vivaldo, Cass, Richard, Eric and Ida each seem to have their own, Baldwin was also able to further open a mind I thought was pretty wide already.	2004-03-13
US	48584321	RJPETH5AVVBW1	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	2	2	5	N	N	a disappointment from irving	_The Fourh Hand_ is the only book I have read by John Irving that didn't raise goosebumps on my skin or cause me to cry.  Not that those things are automatically required of a great book, but what I do require is being made to care.  I found that as I read I didn't like Patrick Wallingford, the TV journalist (\\"Disaster Man\\") main character whose hand is eaten off by a lion, and didn't like the people surrounding him.  Even after Patrick's humanization, presumably caused by the hand transplant and the \\"strings\\" that were attached, he seems shallow, more bemused by the fact he'd fallen in love than anything.<br />_The Fourth Hand_ is written in an acerbic comedic tone, ostensibly a treatise against the media and the news that transfixes us as a nation.  Almost Swiftian, the novel might have made a better essay, possibly even without the love aspect which is supposed to be the redemptive force of the book but is not entirely believable.  Great writers cannot be great all the time, and upon finishing all I wanted to do was re-read _The Cider House Rules_ or _A Prayer for Owen Meany_.  First time Irving readers would be better off with one of his earlier works, and long time fans shouldn't expect too much.	2004-03-13
US	48584321	R3C5T7JD9YKNI7	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	2	9	12	N	N	twisted wearing the mask of beautiful	Upon reading the fly leaf description of this book I thought it sounded interesting and magical, and at first I wasn't disappointed.  Paul Iverson's wife Lexy has died mysteriously with the couple's dog Lorelei as the only witness.  While flashing back to the story of their lives together, Paul struggles with trying to discover clues about the circumstances of Lexy's demise, wishing that Lorelei could speak in order to tell him the truth about the events of that day.  He actually begins to try to teach her, taking a sabbatical from the university where he is a professor of linguistics.<br />Even that part sounds preposterous, but it really wasn't until the middle of the book, when some of Paul's choices lead him into a sick situation with the predictability of a bad horror movie (No, you idiot!  Don't go to that house, what are you thinking?) ... after that, the symbolism becomes forced, the characters no longer seem believable, and surprises that should be important fall flat with their poor delivery.<br />Parkhurst's writing style is lovely, but she could use some help on plot.  Even though the cover, the book's summary, and its book club status make it appear tantalizing, I would skip this one.	2004-03-04
US	48584321	R3K7D6BE169C49	0553803077	138668501	Sickened: The Memoir of a Munchausen by Proxy Childhood	Books	5	14	16	N	N	horribly sad	This heart wrenching memoir by Julie Gregory is both difficult to read and impossible to put down.  The reader is compelled to remind herself often that this is abuse that actually occured in a real family; it seems impossible that a child could live through so much.  Munchausen by Proxy is a confusing mental illness which causes a mother to cause physical symptoms in her own child for the attention it will bring her.  In Julie's case, she was fed matches, virtually starved, and punished if she didn't tell her doctor the &quot;right&quot; things while on the examining table.  Besides the MPB, there were other types of abuse and torture...  brutal, but extremely well written.  Julie Gregory is a hero.	2004-03-04
US	48584321	R1RW3A08J53KIA	0806524537	380564907	Marilyn: Her Life In Her Own Words: Her Life in Her Own Words : Marilyn Monroe's Revealing LastWords and Photographs	Books	5	84	87	N	N	marilyn at her beautiful best	In the plethora of books out there written about and containing pictures of Marilyn Monroe, I feel that this collaboration between friend and photographer George Barris and Marilyn herself is truly special, and is as essential to own as _Legend_ by Guiles or the photography books of Bert Stern or Andre de Dienes.  In some of the last pictures of her taken before her death, Marilyn is natural and luminescent, appearing happy, calm, and at home in her body.<br />The text is also highly interesting, containing the words of Marilyn herself as told to Barris.  Like her ghost-written _My Story_, this book contains the fragments of Marilyn's life she saw fit to share at that time, and therefore captures her public mindset during the summer before her death more than anything I've read.  For example:  &quot;When I was a small child, my fondest memories were being around my mother and her friends.  It made me feel like we were one big happy family.&quot;  And even sadder:  &quot;As far as I'm concerned, the happiest time of my life is now.  There's a future, and I can't wait to get to it.  It should be interesting.&quot;  Barris' conclusion is that Monroe did not commit suicide, and reading her statements contained in this book, it's easy to see why.  A beautiful representation of a beautiful woman (inside and out).	2004-02-22
US	48584321	R3020ZYB47APFD	0819308935	192190564	Ivan, Divan, and Zariman	Books	3	5	5	N	N	scarier than i remembered	I recently acquired this out of print children's book through Amazon's Marketplace because I had such fond memories of reading it (and the smell of the binding, and the texture of the pages) when I was very small.  I didn't even remember the exact title; I just typed in the sounds as I remembered them.<br />When the book arrived, it evoked the same feelings in me that it always had (also the copy was a library reject, so it even smelled the same); but upon paging through the book I realized that one of those feelings was a vague sense of fear.  The story is about a small boy and his relationship with an old sofa and a mouse in the junk-filled attic of his home; the pictures are oddly not to scale and use mostly black and red watercolor, showing Divan as impossibly huge and the color of blood as Ivan and Zariman (the mouse) play on it/him.  One day when Ivan ventures up to his favorite place, he finds it completely empty because his mother had cleaned it out and had everything hauled away by the ominous-looking  City Rubbish Service truck.  When Ivan takes off on his tricycle to search for his friends, he encounters an extremely huge and booted Rubbish Guard (who looks suspiciously like a member of Hitler's SS) which  increases the unease of the book and is easily its scariest image.<br />Dealing with unlikely friendships and loss, this book (published in 1973)  definitely has teaching value and I do remember loving it as a child.  As an adult, however, I find it unbearably --but somehow deliciously!-- creepy.	2004-02-22
US	48584321	R3AZJWYYZ1RD9T	0743244354	217847661	Liars and Saints: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	most are a little of both	_Liars and Saints_ by Maile Meloy is the multi-generational saga of a Catholic family.  This short description may call to mind a very long book, entrenched in the lives of each character, filled with description of each era and bogged down by characterization, but unlike most stories of this type, Meloy's novel is a quick read with relatively short chapters, easy to delve into and difficult to put down.<br />Each chapter is told by the point of view of a different character, with frequent years-long skips ahead in time.  The story begins with the marriage of Yvette and Teddy Santerre during WWII, his overseas fighting, the births of their daughters (Margot and Clarissa), and Teddy's jealousy.  The secrets begin almost immediately as Yvette confesses a small one to her husband (at the recommendation of her priest) only to have it be a mistake to have told him; she never faces truth easily again.  The birth of the family's third child, Jamie, is cloaked in subterfuge as only Yvette and her oldest daughter know that this boy is really Yvette and Teddy's GRANDCHILD, not their son, as everyone will believe until Jamie is well into adulthood.<br />The family's transgressions, secrets, and tribulations continue from there, becoming more outlandish as the reader is fully immersed in the novel, truly cares about the characters, and is therefore able to suspend some disbelief.  Meloy's writing style is to treat the most serious matters very lightly, which some may consider a flaw, but I actually found that it made the events easier to digest somehow.<br />The progeny of the Santerres, Yvette and Teddy's great-grandchild, is another birth of mysterious parentage and also of tragedy, but little T.J. becomes the focus and seems to bring about the final redemption of them all:  patriarch, daughters, and grandson; as well as some important stragglers picked up along the way.  I thought the religious aspect of this novel might become overbearing for me and it almost did in one of the later chapters, but Meloy pulled it back just in time for a perfect balance of God's will and personal determination.  I fully loved this book for its ability to pull me in and not let go, but some of its sheer implausibility (in my mind) caused me to give it 4 instead of 5 stars.the later chapters, but Meloy pulled it back just in time for a perfect balance of God's will and personal determination.   I fully loved this book for its ability to pull me in and not let go, but some of its sheer implausibility (in my mind) caused me to give it 4 instead of 5 stars.	2004-02-22
US	48584321	R98NUFQ822CH7	0966646908	189483642	Tales of a Punk Rock Nothing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	judy blume for punkers	This memoir-style independent press novel is a bittersweet and hilarious capsule of the 90's punk lifestyle with all its pretensions, good intentions, and occasional hypocrisies (as are encountered with any movement).  It's also a very quick, quirky, and fun read.<br />Elliot is from a small town in Tennessee, and having just graduated from high school and partaken in his first punk-like activity of busting out the windows of his local Wal-Mart, is eager for a change.  He moves to Washington DC to a straight-edge vegan co-op, and begins his new struggle of trying to fit in while doing the right things as he sees them,  and also trying hard to look like he's NOT trying to fit in.  If that sounds complicated, it is, as anyone who has been in or on the fringe of any punk-type movement since the early 90's knows.<br />This book contains letters, journal entries, fliers, and three issues of Elliot's zine, which have a very authentic feel.  Elliot's joys in his new life (working for Food Not Bombs, stenciling \\"KISS\\" over nazi graffiti, being in a band, and a vigilante-style operation against a K-Mart store) are wonderful to read, and his frustrations (being a \\"feminist\\" male while in a relationship with a Riot Grrrl; putting together rock shows when bands are feuding and the thin line between selling out and not selling out comes into question; the calculated non-fashionable \\"fashion\\" of punk; infighting with his house and scene mates) are familiar and easy to relate to.  With its ironic ending and Elliot's refreshing voice all the way through, this book is a must-read for anyone knowledgeable or curious about the evolving punk movement.	2004-02-22
US	48584321	R4YG4DUW1LPBT	0553250515	524181283	The Member of the Wedding	Books	2	4	13	N	N	a membership of one	My husband read _The Member of the Wedding_ in school but it was never part of any of my Lit classes; I only read it now for the first time.  As I began to know unlikeable, lonely, awkward, and aggressive Frankie I was struck by the intensity of McCullers' writing and could see that she was/is a great author; however I was unable to understand why the book has become such a classic and that feeling lasted until the final page.  We all know someone a little like Frankie or have been somewhat like her ourselves, but she is such an extreme character that I found it hard to sympathize with her even as I recognized her fears and loneliness.<br />After her brother brings his fiancee home and announces their impending marriage, Frankie decides that she is to be part of their lives after the wedding.  Fully believing this imagined change in her circumstances, she dresses up and walks around town, reveling in her story and making serious errors in judgement which put her in danger.  At this juncture I was still following along, waiting for the epiphany or turning point, but even after Frankie bravely extricates herself from a very bad situation (which could lead her to believe that she is an okay person on her own) none is forthcoming.<br />The wedding is very anticlimactic; we learn about it in the words of one of Frankie's only friends, the housekeeper Berniece, and one short paragraph in Frankie's distanced perception.  Frankie really seems to be emotionally ill and the reader gets the feeling that nothing will truly help her; especially at the end when it seems that, in my analysis, Frankie is about to repeat her mistakes, having learned nothing.	2004-02-22
US	48584321	R3D1FNZLKKFZ2	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	chabon is a wonder boy	I read _Wonder Boys_ immediately after finishing _Oryx and Crake_ by Margaret Atwood, and was shocked that I'd had an easier time keeping up with the latter.  When I was initially getting into Chabon's book, I felt as though I had to run to keep up with the narrative, and I even felt out of breath, continually referring back to remember who had said what to whom to provoke an action.<br />However, once I had become accustomed to the speed of the narrative, I was thoroughly entertained by the adventures of Grady Tripp, his unfortunate student James Leer, and the editor Terry Crabtree.  There were many moments when I laughed out loud and read lines to my husband because they were so witty (usually in the voice of Grady).  Most of the plot seemed to focus on Grady's failing marriage and also his failing affair, and his failing book which he'd been working on for 7 years.<br />Some items seemed unnessecarily confusing,  such as Grady's extreme attraction to a nymphette student who was inexplicably living in his basement;  the picture in James' room that matched one Grady's wife had (which was never explained), and who exactly was involved and why with the somewhat violent climax.  And at the end, you wonder: what is going to happen to James Leer, who was so important to this story?<br />I did love the descriptions of writing and the personalities of writers (&quot;the night disease&quot;), the interesting inclusion of the Marilyn Monroe jacket, and the willy-nilly escapes and cover-ups.  The ending seemed a bit inconclusive, but all in all a very entertaining and enjoyable novel.	2003-09-22
US	48584321	R2VY2RPLAYYZB3	0684829916	544518636	Winter Birds: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	very, very grim	This book, a cringing, nightmarish, too-violent-to-not-be-real heart wrencher, is nevertheless beautiful and extremely transfixing.  The story is told in an eerie second-person narrative by Danny Crell, one of five children in a family with an unbelievably abusive alcoholic father.<br />At the beginning of the book after meeting Danny's brothers (one of whom is a hemophiliac like himself), the reader is also introduced to Danny's fantasy world near the river adjacent to the family home (dubbed &quot;the circle house&quot; due to its spherical path of doors).  Danny has imagined for himself a kind and attentive father he calls The River Man, who is described to appear somewhat like bigfoot.  As the stories of abuse begin in flashback form, we see very little of Danny's River Man, yet it sometimes feels as though the story is being told by him:  &quot;Even with a new baby she watched you every minute, Danny, and you never stepped out of the house without her warning you to be careful.&quot;<br />The novel culminates on Thanksgiving Day with unimaginable horror and a final act no one would suspect.  The resolution I was hoping for never arrived, perhaps making the work even more realistic.  A devastating book, but one worth reading.  I look forward to reading Jim Grimsley's other novels.	2003-09-22
US	48584321	R1BK286AE6U0FO	0316085251	494363300	The Boys of My Youth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	excellent autobiographical short stories	_The Boys of My Youth_ is a two day read (or one day, if the reader has nothing else going on) because of the way it captivates. This book, a collection of autobiographical short stories, weave together and create a beautiful and poetic novel about a woman that I could fully relate to.  The vignettes involve her childhood, including pieces about her mother and aunt, her cousin, and her siblings; her teenage years with her best friend and various crushes;  and her somewhat depressing adult life with a philandering husband and a tragic work occurence.  I feel that my writing a short encapsulated review cannot do Beard's book justice, so I will end here with the recommendation to buy this book and prepare to be astonished.	2003-09-20
US	48584321	R3MV5QFPKZVOXX	1565121899	458872496	Herb's Pajamas	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Abigail's Sad Characters	I am not usually a fan of short stories, but this book was recommended to me by a friend who explained how the characters are connected by living near each other and spotting each other in various places.  I immediately found that I love Thomas's writing style; it seems matter-of-fact and magical at the same time.  I enjoyed the first story about Walter, but was mildly disappointed by the plodding sadness of &quot;Edith's Wardrobe.&quot;  There was nothing about the sections of her story (all named for various articles of clothing) that made me able to relate to her.<br />However, this book is entirely worth reading only for the heartbreaking, beautiful story &quot;Bunny's Sister.&quot;  The transcendent writing in this segment allows Bunny to soar over the other characters, causing the reader to love her broken spirit as she embarks upon a reckless journey and impossible quest.  Connections in this particular story, especially with Edith, are rampant.  After &quot;Bunny's Sister,&quot; the last story (for which the book is titled) seems too short and unimportant, and the book for me ended on a flat note.  I would have loved to have read an entire novel about Bunny, but generally, this book was a quick read and fairly enjoyable.	2003-09-16
US	48584321	R3M2KR30ZBV1JL	0553377876	479446374	Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas	Books	3	10	13	N	N	half asleep...	This is the fourth Tom Robbins book I've read, and even though I enjoyed it, _Half Asleep In Frog Pajamas_ is my least favorite so far (the best being _Still LIfe With Woodpecker_).  One of the things I adore about Robbins is that it's wonderful fun to discover who his characters are going to be:  in _Skinny Legs and All_ an anthropomorphised can of beans, dirty sock, and spoon are featured; in _Frog Pajamas_ we get to experience life with a 300 pound psychic, a former jewel thief monkey, and an unscrupulous, materialistic stockbroker after a market crash.<br />One of the problems I had with this particular novel involved Gwen, the stockbroker.  I just couldn't like her.  I realize that her obsession with money and material objects was part of Robbins' point, but I just didn't enjoy reading almost 400 pages about someone I could not respect.  I also found that as the book got closer to its conclusion, Robbins became more and more preachy (through the voice of Larry, the other main character).  I know that it was necessary at that point for the reader to understand the theme of the novel (it happens with his other books as well), but Larry's explanations are pages long and I found myself skimming them.<br />As with the other Robbins novels I've read, _Half Asleep In Frog Pajamas_ is extremely interesting and creative; the reader never has any idea what he will come up with next.  In this case, the reader learns more about amphibians, Sirius A, B, and C, and rectal cancer than she would ever think possible.  I still recommend this book, but if you've never read Tom Robbins before, don't start with this one.	2003-09-16
US	48584321	R27OIJIRQ6B6XU	0805031308	691653721	The Deep Green Sea: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	haunting and lyrical	I was immediately pulled into this novel by the short chapters and the earnest voices of the two characters.  Ben is a Vietnam War veteran, returning to that country after its inevitable &quot;fall&quot; to communism in order to search his soul and perhaps find some closure.  Tien is a young Vietnamese woman to whom Ben is immediately drawn, and has some healing of her own to do.  The two begin a very tender (and tentative) love affair which consumes them both.<br />I enjoyed the addition of Vietnamese culture and landmarks, especially because they lent a sense of historical realism to a novel which, with Butler's sparse, poetic prose, may have seemed dream-like without them.  The chapters alternate between Ben and Tien's points of view, pulling the reader into their tragic drama and making it impossible to look away even for a second.  What I especially liked was that the book truly remains a love story, with Tien and Ben both receiving the closure they've so desperately been seeking (though in not the ways they may have imagined-- or maybe they did).<br />_The Deep Green Sea_ is a sad, touching novel about the aftermath of war, the bonds that bring people together, and unintended consequences.  Not everyone will like this book, but I do guarantee that the story won't easily leave you.	2003-08-24
US	48584321	RWALEL2BJXSQ5	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	one of her best	I finished reading _Oryx and Crake_ about a half hour ago, and I still have goosebumps.  My immediate advice:  try to not read the professional reviews, because they give too much away.  The dust jacket is okay, but don't go to oryxandcrake.com unless you've finished reading.  I think most people can figure out the spliced vocabulary on their own.<br />This book read a lot like _The Handmaid's Tale_, as though it were an extremely interesting documentary about a not very implausible future.  Once I was 1/4 the way through the quick-reading narrative I could not put it down, and Atwood's brilliant way of putting thoughts and sentences together had me laughing and crying.  I spotted a couple items that had woven their way into her future that are already true events and experiments, and I wondered:  How much of the rest of _Oryx and Crake_ is already true?<br />If you are a lover of Margaret Atwood, this book will not let you down.  If you are not a reader of her books, start now.  After finishing, you will never look at chicken nuggets the same way again... and you also might feel just a little paranoid.	2003-08-24
US	48584321	R1PFVOFQNHPSR9	0812885252	129767028	Legend: The Life and Death of Marilyn Monroe	Books	5	25	26	N	N	blonde, beautiful, and doomed...	I seem to have read the Marilyn Monroe biograhpies backward, because so many of the ones I've already read (including Norman Mailer's, Gloria Steinem's, and Barbara Leaming's) used Guiles' _Legend_ (or his first Marilyn book, _Norma Jean_) as a reference and guide.  This book is truly incredible for its in-depth look into a confusing, tragic life; especially since Marilyn often embellished her past.<br />I especially enjoyed Guiles' treatment of her decline.  He never judged; he was sympathetic and kind about her lateness, dependence on drugs, and occasional fits of bitchiness.  Unlike other biographers, Guiles didn't place all that much emphasis on her barbituate addiction, which I felt was kind of refreshing.  Her death was handled eloquently, steering the reader toward a suicide verdict, carefully negating other reports.<br />I have only a couple of minor complaints; I think if I could I would give the book 4 1/2 stars.  Twice near the beginning of his biography, Guiles points out that Marilyn was \\"not naturally pretty.\\"  He said it about Norma Jeane when she was starting to model, and again about Marilyn after some of her plastic surgery.  How could he say that? It just seems like an odd statement to make about the greatest sex symbol of all time, especially because of her vulnerable, luminous quality.  Also, regarding her marriage to Jim Dougherty, it seemed that Guiles took every word Jim said as gospel, when he would have as much reason as Marilyn to embellish that situation to his benefit (and no more proof than she had, and of course when Jim wrote his book, she was already dead).<br />On the whole, this is the best book on Marilyn Monroe, comparable only with Donald Spoto's biography.  I recommend it to all readers, not simply people who are already Marilyn fans.	2003-08-20
US	48584321	R14GEQ9T7JGOOG	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	5	3	3	N	N	the horrors of childhood, revisited	_Cat's Eye_ is a novel that speaks to everyone.  It speaks to those who moved often in childhood, and those who left their hometowns to escape negative memories.  It speaks to artists.  It speaks to women, and to anyone who had difficult relationships in childhood.  It speaks to those who have obtained a measure of success, and to those that haven't.  It speaks to Canadians, Americans, and even to men.  It speaks to anyone who is haunted by their past.<br />Elaine Risley is an artist who is returning to her home city of Toronto for a retrospective of her work.  Following her everywhere as she moves through the streets is the shadow of Cordelia, her childhood friend, confidant, and finally, her torturer.  We learn about Elaine's childhood through highly effective and captivating flashbacks:  her father was an entymologist, they moved around often, and when Elaine was finally able to settle and make friends she chooses the wrong girls.  We suffer with her through her torment, and sympathize with her as an adult trying to heal through her art.<br />For me, the descriptions of Elaine's paintings are some of the finest points of the book.  Each painting is a capsule of Elaine's childhood: the images overlap and symbolize events which she is trying to take out and place onto the canvas in order to purge herself.  The reader can envision them clearly, and understand where they came from in the artist's psyche.  The paintings are essential to the hypnotic flow of the book (one of them is displayed on the cover).<br />Ultimately, with the help of her successful retrospective and revisiting of Toronto, Elaine does finally emerge from her personal blizzard and into the sunlight.  It is a journey well worth taking with her.  One of my three favorite books of all time.	2003-08-20
US	48584321	R2C7UVLT33AF7N	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	waiting, and waiting, and waiting.	This book demonstrates the culture, habits, and politics of communist China, and also, it is a love story.  While reading, however, I found that army doctor Lin Kong remained remote and uninteresting, more an allegorical everyman rather than a fully developed character.  Manna Wu, the nurse at his hospital with whom he's been having a secret relationship, has a little more personality but is still not all that likeable.<br />Lin cannot get a divorce from his loveless, embarrassing (she has bound feet) arranged marriage without consent from his wife until 18 years have passed.  He promises Manna that he will try, summer after summer when he goes home to his village, but he never succeeds.  His repulsion for his wife increases, as does his secret ardor for Manna, but even early on the reader can sense that all is not what it appears to be, for rather than Manna Wu herself, Lin has fallen in love with the anticipatory, things-are-going-to-change nature of waiting.  And also he loves the allure of what he cannot have, which seems to be the ironic political moral of Ha Jin's story.<br />Because of the beautiful descriptions and the capsule of Chinese life that is experienced through the novel, I definitely recommend _Waiting_.  However, I think it would help to go into the book knowing that it is a parable rather than a romance.  I know it would have helped me.	2003-08-12
US	48584321	RC8BZZ0JYRK8N	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	misery loves company	I haven't read a Stephen King novel in about 15 years, but upon watching the movie adaption of _Misery_ with my husband recently, I remembered how much better I had liked the book (although the movie is good as well; Kathy Bates is amazing).  So I decided to pick it up and read it again, to see if I would like it as well now that I am an adult.<br />In short, I did.  Claustrophobia and medical issues top my list of fears, so this novel of being trapped in a crazy ex-nurse's house with broken legs and codeine addiction grabbed me right away.  Paul Sheldon is as dependent on Annie Wilkes as he is threatened by her, since as well as administering violent \\"punishments,\\" she is dispensing the magic capsules that keep his pain at bay.  She is the one who pulled him out of his battered car and  brought him back from the brink of death:  to keep him in her home, her favorite writer, her pet writer.  Without her dubious rescue he _would_ have died-- and later wishes he had.  But it is when she reads Sheldon's latest (and what was supposed to be the last) _Misery_ novel that her insanity truly reveals itself.  He had killed Misery, and she was going to make him bring her back to life in _Misery's Return_, a strange and tortuous novel-within-a-novel.<br />Some of my favorite descriptions dealt with the writing process (of \\"finding the hole in the paper\\"), and also realistic portrayal of the excruciating pain Paul was going through.  Upon re-reading, I thought about King's own somewhat-recent accident on a mountain road, when he was struck by a car and his legs were broken.  Did he think about _Misery_ then?  A captivating and satisfying quick read.	2003-08-11
US	48584321	R8FW6H902YNC2	0446675059	775003712	The Honk and Holler Opening Soon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	minds and hearts opening soon	I was initially resistant to reading this book, no matter that I loved Billie Letts' first novel, _Where The Heart Is._  My hesitation, snobbishly, had to do with what I considered to be a \\"silly\\" title, somewhat like _Fried Green Tomatoes At The Whistle-Stop Cafe_ by Fannie Flagg.  I only read THAT wonderful book after falling in love with the movie.  You'd think I'd have learned.<br />_The Honk And Holler Opening Soon_ begins bleakly, introducing characters one by one, some of whom have yet to meet.  Caney Paxton is a wheelchair-bound Vietnam veteran and owner of the strangely-named diner (due to a drunken misunderstanding with the sign-maker).  Molly O, a woman who helped to raise Caney and also helps him to run the cafe, is dreading Christmas without her country music-singing runaway daughter and is over-compensating by forcing Christmas cheer on Caney and the Holler's regulars.  Vena Takes Horse, a beautiful young Crow woman and drifter, rescues an injured dog while thinking of her sister; and Bui Khanh, a Vietnamese immigrant, searches for a new home after an unfortunate car accident.  Both Vena and Bui wind up at the Honk and Holler, turning the small-town Oklahoma diner into a veritable melting pot and the lives of Caney and Molly O upside down.<br />Letts brings to life even the book's more minor characters, causing the reader to feel part of a large and mixed-up extended family.  The use of foreshadowing and symbolism might seem heavy-handed in a book of this type (an oriental-looking baby Jesus in Molly O's nativity display; a gelding terrified by the sound of gunshots), but instead lends magic and a not-unwelcome feeling of security due to fate (or the hand of a Higher Power) stepping in where it is most needed.  There are a few minor faults, but they seemed insignificant as I was eventually unable to put the book down for fear the story would move on without me.  As it catapults to its perfect conclusion, Letts' writing is sure to bring tears to more sensitive readers, including myself.  _The Honk and Holler Opening Soon_ is not such a silly title after all, for the \\"opening soon\\" applies to the broadening of the characters' minds, the building of new lives, and the irrelevance of race in true caring and friendship.  A feel-good story with a universal message, this book shouldn't disappoint anyone.ensitive readers, including myself.    _The Honk and Holler Opening Soon_ is not such a silly title after all, for the \\"opening soon\\" applies to the broadening of the characters' minds, the building of new lives, and the irrelevance of race in true caring and friendship.  A feel-good story with a universal message, this book shouldn't disappoint anyone.	2003-08-03
US	48584321	R1AWM159S7YUG9	0380732149	398450731	On the Occasion of My Last Afternoon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a different Civil War	This historical novel of the Civil War begins with the protagonist's father having murdered a slave for talking back.  We meet Emma Garnet Tate and Clarice immediately following, the former being the aforementioned daughter of a plantation owner; the latter being the support of the book, a strong, wise black woman who is actually the one who holds the family and the plantation together.<br />Emma is narrating in flashback as she rests in bed, pushing off death until she can finish her story.  She grew up a girl who identified more with her father's slaves than with her father; more with intellectuals than socialites.  Her father's religious, racist rage is a terrifying force, and at times it seems no one around him is going to survive unscathed.  But Emma does escape, thanks to Quincy Powell, a Boston doctor whose perfection would be irritating had Emma not needed him so badly (and deserved him so much).  After they marry and honeymoon (in Paris, with Clarice along with them), the war begins and Quincy opens a hospital to take care of wounded Confederate soldiers. Emma has to become a caregiver, nurse, and finally an unofficial doctor when the wounded and dying start pouring in.  Besides the gory and realistic descriptions of the horror of war, there are also detailed passages regarding the sick carnival of a public hanging and the misguided attempts to heal with leeches and blood-letting.  These realistic and uncompromising details cause the book to be fascinating instead of merely a diversion.<br />Emma Garnet has survived much, but at times she seems wishy-washy and irritatingly upper-class.  Gibbons might have intended this, because the character who shines through the most is Clarice.  She had known Mr. Tate from the time he was a little boy and had rescued him from an unimaginable situation, and is therefore the only person, including those in his own family, who is not afraid of him.  She rises to each terrible event with determination and bravery, all the while cooking, cleaning, guiding the many other slaves of the household, and mothering Emma and her sister (they do have a much-beloved mother, but she is often ill).  Emma loves Clarice as much as she would love the secret and best part of her own self, which it seems she sometimes mistakes Clarice to be.<br />Kaye Gibbons is a fabulous writer and weaves a story of the Civil War which is unflinching and also non-racist.  The voice of the narrator sometimes sounds slightly pompous, but I feel that Emma is entitled due to the sometimes brutal life she led.  I believe most readers will feel the same way, and also will probably see, as I do, that Clarice is the real heroine of this book.while cooking, cleaning, guiding the many other slaves of the household, and mothering Emma and her sister (they do have a much-beloved mother, but she is often ill).  Emma loves Clarice as much as she would love the secret and best part of her own self, which it seems she sometimes mistakes Clarice to be.<br />Kaye Gibbons is a fabulous writer and weaves a story of the Civil War which is unflinching and also non-racist.  The voice of the narrator sometimes sounds slightly pompous, but I feel that Emma is entitled due to the sometimes brutal life she led.  I believe most readers will feel the same way, and also will probably see, as I do, that Clarice is the real heroine of this book.	2003-08-03
US	48584321	R2E3FL0RP6H0XA	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	13	17	N	N	magical, confounding, and brilliant	Most of you who are considering buying this book right now already know that _Life of Pi_ is about a boy and a bengal tiger adrift in a lifeboat.  That fabulous premise is reason enough to read it, but as you begin, you will soon realize that the novel goes much deeper.<br />Pi (short for Piscine, which means \\"swimming pool\\" in French) is introduced as a boy in India learning about the animals in his father's zoo and delving fully into three separate religions.  He already seems adrift, but the family's venture across the Pacific in order to move to Canada doesn't happen until page 90.  And yes, much of the Pondicherry Zoo accompanies them in cages, but headed to different destinations (various zoos in the United States).<br />This is definitely a review in which I don't want to say too much, but the ship does sink, and Richard Parker the tiger isn't the only animal to reach the lifeboat.  In fact, there are days of struggle before the \\"crew\\" is reduced to only two.  And I have to admit that I had cozy images of the young boy curled up with the tiger, the open ocean forcing them to hang on to each other for comfort.  But as surprising as it may seem, this is a realistic book.  Richard Parker remains exactly what he is:  a very hungry, thirsty, and sickly 450 pound carnivore.  Only by utilizing what he has learned by studying animals can Pi keep from being torn to shreds.  But as for surviving the ocean...  both Pi and Richard Parker have a lot ahead of them.<br />I was fascinated and transported by this beautiful book which is presented as a true story (part of the mystery is that I still don't know whether it is).  My favorite section has to do with a tactile discovery the two make while still on the open sea; the ending of the novel leaves the reader possibly frustrated and definitely wanting more.  However, things never stop happening as they would REALLY happen, truly amazing in a novel which on the surface seems so much like fantasy.  Read it for the plot, read it for the Martel's poetic writing style, read it to learn about animals.  But definitely read it.  You won't really understand until you do.d it for the Martel's poetic writing style, read it to learn about animals.  But definitely read it.  You won't really understand until you do.	2003-08-01
US	48584321	R2E2X7GVFZ8T5A	0743411366	334367554	Say When: A Novel (Berg, Elizabeth)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a very realistic book	_Say When_ is prolific Elizabeth Berg's first attempt at the male point of view, and she does not let the reader down.  Because she has so successfully written from the perspectives of women and children I was unsure whether the character of Frank Griffin would be believable.  He is, in fact, painfully believable in his reactions to his wife's announcement that she is in love with someone else and wants a divorce.  Griffin, who goes by his last name, has been inadvertantly ignoring Ellen for a very long time.  Now he has to wake up.<br />Throughout the novel, the reader gets to know the two main characters and to learn with them what their mistakes were.  Griffin, almost immediately after learning about the imminent separation, impulsively gets a job as a mall Santa Claus. It is that job, as much as his wife's infidelity, that changes him.  Griffin and Ellen's daughter, Zoe, adds another dimension of sadness to the story, and also helps the reader to get to know her parents better.  She's a sweet addition to the novel, bringing out  their different techniques with her,  and also their tenderness and love for their daughter.  However, as one of my only criticisms of the book, I think that Zoe's actions and habits didn't completely ring true for the 8 year old she is in this story.  She also seemed merely incidental to the dramas playing out in both of her parents' heads, which may have actually been Berg's intention.<br />Ultimately, this novel was a simple, interesting read with great characters and almost palpaple emotion.  By the end, the reader feels that the conclusion is right and makes sense for the characters, producing a wonderful sense of completion.  Elizabeth Berg's books almost always grab you.  With this one, she has us in the palm of her hand.	2003-07-31
US	48584321	R2NZRHWCBFBHCI	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	8	10	N	N	an important book	I am a subscriber to _The Nation_ magazine, which often features pieces by Barbara Ehrenreich, so when I read about this book I was excited to find out what her \\"undercover\\" work would reveal about living on minimum wage (or a few dollars above, actually).  I wasn't disappointed.  Ms. Ehrenreich, who points out that she has a PhD and that when she travels is often given an important title like \\"keynote speaker\\" or \\"discussion group leader,\\" tries to find low paying jobs and a place to live in three different places:  Key West; Portland, Maine; and Minneapolis.  She was able to find work by going through the indignity of drug testing, personality tests, and computerized interviews without appearing too overqualified, but finding an affordable place to live was another matter entirely, and she had extreme difficulty with that in all three cities.<br />It was interesting to read about her experiences waitressing in a busy, touristy restaurant and then switching to a busier, more touristy restaurant in Key West because it paid better...  but she wasn't allowed breaks, or even to \\"chat\\" with the customers or other waitresses.  In Maine, she worked weekends in a retirement home serving food to alzheimer's patients (probably her most agreeable job) and during the week for a house-cleaning company; in Minneapolis she suffered through a month-long job at Wal-Mart, where she actually dared to discuss the value of unions with other employees, something which would have gotten her fired had she not been leaving soon anyway to complete her book.<br />Ehrenreich's conclusion is that it is impossible to finance any kind of rent on 7.00 an hour, and very difficult even on 10.00 an hour.  It is even worse for single parents (women are her primary focus) and most she meets on the job are living with relatives.  She points out that welfare reform, however much trumpeted as a success by the press and the Clinton administration, does not work if people just off welfare are going to make less at their jobs than they did with the government's monthly check (especially including the necessary gasoline, childcare, uniforms, and expensive health care deductibles).<br />My only difficulty with the book was that at times it seemed slightly condescending.  I myself am in a service job, and in 1998 (until I was promoted and then got married) I actually WAS able to live in a small Ohio college town in an efficiency just fine on 7.50 an hour, even though I was living alone.  Granted, it was a horrible apartment, and I'm not trying to invalidate Ehrenreich's findings.  However, I did think some of her statements seemed to be biased by normally living in  \\"the top 20%,\\" as she classifies herself at the end of the book.  For example, upon being told to show up the next day at the restaurant where she was hired, she writes:  \\"At the word _tomorrow_, something between fear and indignation rises in my chest.  I want to say, 'Thank you for your time, sir, but this is just an experiment, you know, not my actual life.'\\"  Well, for millions of Americans, it is real life.  And isn't that supposed to be the point?  Still, an important book by a brave woman who entered the lower classes with more guts than most in her position would have.less at their jobs than they did with the government's monthly check (especially including the necessary gasoline, childcare, uniforms, and expensive health care deductibles).  <br />My only difficulty with the book was that at times it seemed slightly condescending.  I myself am in a service job, and in 1998 (until I was promoted and then got married) I actually WAS able to live in a small Ohio college town in an efficiency just fine on 7.50 an hour, even though I was living alone.  Granted, it was a horrible apartment, and I'm not trying to invalidate Ehrenreich's findings.  However, I did think some of her statements seemed to be biased by normally living in  \\"the top 20%,\\" as she classifies herself at the end of the book.  For example, upon being told to show up the next day at the restaurant where she was hired, she writes:  \\"At the word _tomorrow_, something between fear and indignation rises in my chest.  I want to say, 'Thank you for your time, sir, but this is just an experiment, you know, not my actual life.'\\"  Well, for millions of Americans, it is real life.  And isn't that supposed to be the point?  Still, an important book by a brave woman who entered the lower classes with more guts than most in her position would have.	2003-07-27
US	48584321	RXMEA03XMC79R	0452259827	380564907	Marilyn (Signet)	Books	5	23	29	N	N	THIS is the Marilyn I love	Having recently read the axe-grinding Marilyn Monroe \\"biography\\" by Ted Jordan, finding this gem by Gloria Steinem (with beautiful photograhps by George Barris) was such a relief.  Whether kind or unkind, most Marilyn biographers are men;  it makes sense that a woman (and a feminist) would have a much different understanding of her.  Steinem pays much attention to the remaining Norma Jeane personality in the grown Marilyn, a little girl who was abandoned, abused, shuffled between the orphanage and foster homes, and married off at 16.  This, Steinem writes, explains much of Marilyn's troublesome behavior:  she still had the insecurities of Norma Jeane, but tried to get the love she needed by being the sex symbol Marilyn.<br />This larger sized paperback is split into chapters, for example:  \\"Norma Jeane,\\" about her childhood and background, and \\"Work and Money, Sex and Politics\\" about Marilyn's battles with the Studio, her marriages, and her affairs with powerful men.  Each chapter is a complete essay unto itself.  And the accompanying photographs, most taken by George Barris the month before her death, show a natural, cavorting, and thoughtful Marilyn at 36 years old.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone curious about the REAL Marilyn Monroe.  In truth, she had many realities, but I think that Gloria Steinem captures the most important one.	2003-07-26
US	48584321	R34UMPOMDXRM3T	0743431030	305287579	Mother of Pearl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	sweet, thick, and slow as molasses	When I began this book, I actually put it down and picked it up again months later.  It is a slow-starter, pulling you in gradually, bit by bit, until you're half-in, half-out of the quicksand and not sure whether to give in or try to get out.  This time, I opted for staying in, and I was glad I did.<br />This book contains many different plots, but as the novel reaches its conclusion,  most of them blend together seamlessly and in a way that makes perfect sense...  it just seems to take a while to get there.  Haynes does revel in sometimes needless symbolism, and I was put off at first by the contrived similarity to Toni Morrison's _Song of Solomon_ (which was written 20 years earlier).  Characters have names like Valuable Korner and Even Grade.  Other characters are very unlikeable (Beryn Green, for example, father of Joleb), and some are irresistable, especially Joody Two Sun (who is a magical woman living by the river).  The river is very important in the novel, as are dreams, connections between people, and family ties.<br />Sometimes I would have to re-read sections due to the large number of characters...  I would actually lose track of what had happened to whom, even though I read the book constantly.  Other aspects of the novel were frustrating and painful.  However, I was thoroughly moved by the novel and was transported, finally, by Haynes' writing, which to me is the best thing a writer can do for you.  I recommend this book to anyone with a little patience and some time on their hands.	2003-07-26
US	48584321	R37GAYNGZG0ODN	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A beautiful, timeless classic	When I was a senior in high school, Toni Morrison's _Song of Solomon_ was assigned by the teacher of my A.P. English class.  From the first chapter, the story completely overwhelmed me, sucked me in, and virtually changed my life.<br />I am now about to turn 30, and _Song of Solomon_ is still one of my three favorite books.  Threaded beginning to end with the slave-symbolism of flying away in order to be free, the novel is filled with rich, realistic characters whom you feel you know as well as your own family.  Milkman Dead, a troubled and cocky young man with an unfortunate nickname.  Pilate Dead, his magical aunt, named when her illiterate father blindly pointed to a name in the bible.  Milkman's sisters First Corinthians and Magdelene called Lena; his best friend Guitar, his cousin and lover Hagar.  All beautiful black threads in the same quilt, all connected.  They all love, and hate, and work, and fight for their own futures before the advent of the civil rights movement in America made it not _quite_ so dangerous to be of African descent.<br />Milkman grows and matures into a fully-realized individual as he traces his family background to a slave named Shalimar who was known to be able to fly.  He gradually learns how to treat himself and others with respect, and a character that makes the reader cringe through the beginning of the novel makes us proud by the end.  Every time I read this book (more than any of her others, though they're all good), I am amazed again by Toni Morrison's talent; she is truly one of the world's greatest writers.  Read this book... I guarantee you will be a little bit changed by the time you reach the last page.	2003-07-26
US	48584321	RQ5H8DLP0W9IU	0688177859	894932092	Ahab's Wife: Or, The Star-Gazer: A Novel	Books	5	6	10	N	N	a woman far stronger than her husband	&quot;Captain Ahab was neither my first husband nor my last.&quot;  From the very beginning of this phenomenal book, Ahab is squarely put in his place and the richly fascinating life story of Una begins.  Sent to live with her aunt and uncle on a lighthouse island to save her from her puritanical father, Una learns to love the sea, and by the age of 16 she is seeking work on a whaling ship by pretending to be a boy.  Unfortunately, her search leads her to _The Essex_, a doomed real-life whaler which, in part, inspired Melville to write _Moby Dick_.  Una falls into the life of a whaling boat easily, but when the boat is stove by a whale, she is forced into the most difficult situation imaginable.  When she is rescued she slowly recovers and begins life anew.<br />Una meets Ahab again (their ships had met at sea before the Essex disaster) as Nantucket is burning to the ground, and a connection is renewed.  They marry and have children, and while he is away Una delves into the social, political, and intellectual world of  1800's New England.  Of course, the reader knows that Ahab will be injured by a white whale and become obsessed with revenge, and therefore Una's life with him is infused with sadness.  Una, however, is so strong-minded that she doesn't let circumstances bury her, and the reader grows to admire and even love her as she struggles beautifully through a difficult life.  Incorporating many true events of the time and invoking other literary works, _Ahab's Wife_ is a rich, fulfilling novel which I became completely immersed in.  One of the best books I have ever read.	2003-07-21
US	48584321	R1FH7UTX9X4AVX	1565124057	846975245	The Last Girls (Smith, Lee)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	boring women, boring book	_The Last Girls_ is loosely based on Lee Smith's own raft trip down the Mississippi with some friends from college.  But for a rich subject and a metaphoric theme with such potential, Lee drops anchor (as one of the raft's \\"crew\\" did in the article at the beginning of the book) and can't seem to get moving.<br />In 1965, 12 girls from the southern Mary Scott College, while studying _Huckleberry Finn_, decide to take their own raft trip down the river (unfortunately this was rarely discussed).  Thirty four years later, the most dynamic and troubled of the friends (\\"Baby\\" Ballou) is dead, and her husband asks the four women who were closest to Baby to take a trip down the river again, in a cruise ship this time, to dispose of some of Baby's ashes near New Orleans.  The four women have not been in touch, and have embarked upon lives none of them would have expected.  Imagine _Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood_ meets _The Big Chill_, but not as interesting as either one.<br />Harriet, with a personality befitting her name, was Baby's best friend and has put her personal life completely on hold since her college days.  Courtney married into wealth but is predictably miserable.  Anna has become a famous romance novelist.  And Catherine is on her third husband.  Their current lives are interspersed with stories from the past, and it can be hard to keep track of which character is which, because the women aren't developed fully enough.  (The most fleshed-out one is Baby, and she's dead.)<br />Lee's writing never reaches the transcendence which allows the reader to lose themselves in the story, and it feels as though a climax is never reached.  At the book's end there is an appendix which discusses what has happened to the other 7 raft-riders which seems completely unnecessary.  Ultimately, I found I didn't care about the characters at all, which made _The Last Girls_ a slow and disappointing book.	2003-07-21
US	48584321	R1Y0FIU21LDWF9	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	31	35	N	N	brooding and atmospheric	I chose this book because I try to read all of the National Book Award winners, and I was a little surprised by its plodding, detailed format, but not disappointed.  _Three Junes_  is split into three sections, and Fenno, the main character, plays a part in each one.  The first section, &quot;Collies,&quot; focuses on Fenno's father in Scotland and Greece; the second section, &quot;Upright&quot; is about Fenno's life in New York City (the bookstore he owns and the man he falls in love with); and the third section, &quot;Boys,&quot; focuses on a woman whom Fenno's father met in Greece and now is meeting Fenno's accquaintance in New York as well.  It is a little difficult to shift gears between the sections, but they are connected by thin strings of coincidence and fate, actions and reactions, so ultimately the reader can get comfortable again.  Glass deals with some difficult subjects including infidelity, AIDS, and infertility with remarkable smoothness, and makes  you really feel the characters' guilt, love, and confusion, as well as hope.  It is hope, I think, that permeates the novel most of all.  My only criticism is that I felt there were one or two minor subplots that weren't tied up sufficiently, and there also weren't too many ups and downs but just a slow crescendo of choices and misunderstandings.  On the whole, however,  this is a very rewarding book, and well worth the time it takes to get to know the characters and their environments.	2003-07-20
US	48584321	R1XDRRVRR2PPXE	0375901744	892456017	Real Love: The Drawings for Sean	Books	5	9	9	N	N	simple and pure	I already owned this book, but I recently purchased it for a friend of mine who is about to have a baby.  She chose \\"John Lennon's Musical Parade\\" for her nursery theme, a line of baby products based on this loving collaboration between John Lennon and his young son Sean; she had never seen the actual drawings and I wanted her to know where those images of animals and musical notes came from.  The book is endearing and simple, revealing Lennon's creativity with words (\\"A turtle winning by a hare\\" under a drawing of a turtle and a rabbit;  \\"A bird bath\\" under a picture of a bird in in the rain).  In the short introduction, Yoko explains that Sean came up with some of the titles himself.  All in all, a wonderful book for children, fans of John Lennon, and adults who are young at heart.	2003-07-19
US	48584321	R1M4OOTGDKUEVJ	0451169123	750366482	Norma Jean: My Secret Life with Marilyn Monroe (Signet)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	an unkind portrayal	This particular biography of Marilyn Monroe sometimes seems plausible in dialogue and description, but a few of the events seem exaggerated and contrived.  Ted Jordan is another person who claims to have been Marilyn's lover, secret boyfriend, and confidant throughout her entire career.  I can't help comparing it to Robert Slatzer's  _The Mysterious Death of Marilyn Monroe_ because he claims EXACTLY the same things in his book, portraying himself as the most important person in her life with even less corroboration than Ted provides.  In fact, the two books often directly contradict each other.  For example, Bob claims that Marilyn had no interest in finding her father because she knew him to be her mother's former husband Ed Mortenson, who died in a motorcycle accident; Ted writes that Marilyn (or Norma Jean, as he calls her all the way through-- without the \\"e\\") knew the identity of her father to be her mother's co-worker, C. Stanley Gifford.  Both men say they knew her so well... is one or both of them lying?  (I think it is more likely to be Bob Slatzer who is lying, as his book reads as one long fantasy that he created in his head. ) And if about that, what else?  _My Secret Life_ makes a lot of outrageous claims, including Marilyn having a lesbian affair with his stripper wife, Marilyn aborting their baby, and Marilyn calling him on the night of her death.  The uncomfortable thing to me is how Jordan portrays her as a horribly ambitious, mentally ill prostitute, repeating several times that she had no talent and used everyone to get what she wanted.  Maybe some of that is true, but in a book such as this one (as well as _The Mysterious Death of_), the reader never knows WHAT to believe.	2003-07-16
US	48584321	R33ID9JAKLMG1Y	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	an incredible experience	Already a fan of Joyce Carol Oates, when I finished _Blonde_ I almost immediately became a fan of Marilyn Monroe as well.  Yes, it is a very long, somewhat foggy fictionalized account of Marilyn's life, but having now read several different biograhpies I see how close to the truth Oates really came.  Changing many names (foster parents and producers, for example) and referring to Marilyn's husbands as &quot;The Ex-Athlete&quot; and &quot;The Playwright&quot;, Oates nevertheless fills the book with all the people who surrounded Marilyn, and reveals the roles they played in both her desperate need to be loved and her blind ambition to become famous.  The best part about this novel is Oates' ability to BECOME Norma Jeane, to get inside of her head and write in the actress' voice in an extremely believable way (hence the sometimes confusing and &quot;foggy&quot; aspect of the narration).  _Blonde_ is a very haunting and beautiful work that will always be with me.	2003-07-16
US	48584321	RNGRYMG96ZBFX	156331925X	97431559	The Smile of a Dolphin: Remarkable Accounts of Animal Emotions	Books	5	7	7	N	N	an opening into a new world	As a vegetarian, I have felt especially vindicated by evidence of animals' emotions.  If an elephant can feel grief, a chimp baby can carry around a stick &quot;doll,&quot; and wolves can bond to one another, then of course they can also feel pain.  However, I believe that absolutely anyone could and should enjoy this charming book edited by Marc Bekoff.  It is separated into sections, and each chapter is then only a few pages long, so it is easy to read cover to cover, or simply to flip through.  I also think that this book would be a great way for children to learn respect for their fellow earth-dwellers.  Many readers will be surprised by these anecdotes...  I highly recommend (although the title is a strange choice, since a big &quot;grin&quot; on a dolphin can indicate aggression).	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R2J8MXSRLDIHPO	0523418590	312643642	Life and Curious Death of Marilyn Monroe	Books	4	6	7	N	N	interesting...	When I finished this book, I truly believed that Marilyn Monroe was murdered (I pretty much believed that anyway).  However, I didn't believe some of Slatzer's other claims, such as:  he was Marilyn's best friend and confidant all through her career; that they were secretly married in Mexico and only annulled it because of Zanuck's insistence; and that he had privileged information regarding the infamous &quot;red diary.&quot;  (Interestingly, a book by another supposed career-long friend/lover, Ted Jordan, directly contradicts some of Bob's statements, and Ted also claims to have been her secret special boyfriend during the same time and to have knowledge of the diary in a similar way.)  I am grateful for the amount of research Bob put into the mystery of her death, because he does make it hard to believe that she committed suicide.  But by bragging non-stop about his intense relationship with Marilyn, he makes his other, more important assertions harder to believe.  An important book for fans, but take with a grain of salt!	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R3LCZM5OPO7R61	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	5	5	N	N	fulfilling.	This richly written novel follows narrator Lily Owen through heartbreak, yearning, love, and eventually, the discovery of a place she can call home.  Lily's mother died when she was very young and she is being raised by her uncaring, brute father whom she calls T.Ray as the book opens.  Set in the south during the civil rights movement, the book contains many African-American characters including Lily's housekeeper Rosaleen, as well as the women whose honey farm the two of them escape  to after Lily breaks Rosaleen out of jail (the honey farm is Lily's only connection to her mother, having found a card with the name of the town and a mysterious Black Madonna).  Lily is an extremely brave but still believable character,  and the book moved me so much that at times I had to put it down and let the feelings wash through me  before continuing.  The book is about family wherever you may find it, the acceptance of the self, and spirituality as a force that brings everything together.  An excellent book.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R33L0TDA1VD6R6	0738203408	337159473	Drawing the Line: Science and the Case for Animal Rights	Books	5	10	12	N	N	I never looked back	This is the book which introduced me to the world of animal intelligence and emotion. In Steven Wise's book, he dedicates chapters to an African Grey parrot, a pair of dolphins, an elephant matriarch, an orangutan, Koko the gorilla, Wise's own family dog, and even spends a chapter describing the intricate communication of honeybees.  Wise is a lawyer, and so his goal in the book is to analyze whether or not these \\"nonhuman animals\\" (I love that wording!) fit the criteria to deserve rights under the law.  Some of them do (by his estimation), and some of them don't...  but Wise's writing style draws you in and his stories about the various animals he meets are fascinating (my favorite was Alex the parrot).  Animal lovers will feel vindicated, and those who are unsure on the subject of animal rights may find themselves swayed by Wise's strong arguments.  The writing is a little scientific at times, but the book is well worth the effort!	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R1AJNRHTGNGAT1	0395877431	161295356	Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence	Books	5	13	19	N	N	eye-opening	The daughter of a friend of mine is a PhD student of Wrangham's at Harvard, which is how I was introduced to this book (I borrowed their autographed copy).  _Demonic Males_ is easy to read and fascinating, dispelling the myth that apes in the wild are peaceful; in fact they rape, kill each other for no reason, and have turf wars just like humans.  One exception, Wrangham points out, is the incredible bonobo, a species of ape which evolved differently and enjoys a peaceful societal communion.  The most interesting aspect of the book to me involved evolution: Wrangham describes how there was a cataclysmic event in Africa which caused chimps to split off into two separate groups.  One of those groups, because they had to become land-dwellers, eventually evolved into hominids.  An amazing book which helps the reader  to understand that we are biologically disposed to war;  unfortunately, because of this it is also rather depressing.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R7WL07Q3VOU7H	039330938X	350979794	Marilyn Monroe: Photographs 1945-1962 (Schirmer's Visual Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a wonderful collection.	A small book containing a plethora of beautiful photographs, some of which I've seen nowhere else (the Halsman &quot;leaping&quot; shots, for example).  Truman Capote's essay at the beginning also reveals a raunchy, funny Marilyn rarely seen in other writings.  Marilyn had such a wide variety of friends in New York and Los Angeles, and it's interesting to read a literary giant's take on a screen giant --and enduring icon-- like Marilyn.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R289G6J2MDTO48	0609805533	745004034	Marilyn Monroe	Books	1	37	40	N	N	disappointing.	Don't buy this biography of Marilyn Monroe if you are at all curious about her thoughts and feelings, details of her personal life, or her mysterious death.  However, if you want to read hundreds of pages all about Marilyn's battles with 20th Century Fox studios, her dissolved partnership with Milton Greene, and how she spent her money, then this is the book for you.  Leaming's primary source was Marilyn's extensive file at Fox, which leads to an extremely disappointing and impersonal look at a dynamic icon.  I recommend _Legend_ by Fred Lawrence Guiles instead, though non-conspiracy fans tend to prefer the Donald Spoto biography.  Either is preferable to this one.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R1UQASH9P59QNX	3822811998	276384964	Marilyn	Books	5	9	9	N	N	beautiful, sumptuous package	When I opened this box on Christmas morning, I felt like the luckiest girl in the world.  A recent convert to Marilyn-ism, this was one of the first books about her I owned, and I'm so glad, because I think it's important to know Norma Jeane before you know Marilyn.  These huge, glorious photographs taken by Andre de Dienes capture her innocence and natural beauty at a time when she was an unknown model.  De Dienes' memoirs are touching and reveal Norma Jeane as she was to him, a man who fell in love with her, as so many would in the future.  After paging through these books, you are left to feel as though Norma Jeane Dougherty would never look quite as beautiful again (and of course she would, but not in the same way).  Revealing Marilyn Monroe at her earliest beginnings, this limited edition package is definitely worth the money.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R1J8F3RDXVW5LZ	3823854836	388945255	Marilyn Monroe: The Complete Last Sitting (Stern Portfolio)	Books	5	36	38	N	N	stunning...	This collection of photographs from Marilyn's last official sitting is haunting and extraordinary.  The pictures show so many different sides of her, and I think that Stern did a fabulous job capturing them with the clothes, scarves, and props he provided.  His introduction is interesting and gives the reader an idea of what it would be like to work with Marilyn in that way; however, he seems to fall under the Marilyn love spell, like every other man who encountered her, and becomes maudlin imagining a romantic encounter.  I have to add that seeing the damage that Marilyn did to the negatives she didn't like gave me goosebumps; it is chilling to know that she thought so little of herself, especially so close to death.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R3G0LREW3W4HRR	0385314280	525863762	When Elephants Weep: The Emotional Lives of Animals	Books	4	10	12	N	N	a thoughtful book on a difficult subject	In the scientific community, &quot;anthropomorphism&quot; (assigning human qualities to inanimate ojects or animals) is villified to an astonishing degree.  Masson has bravely written a book which contains stories of animals interacting with members of their own species and also with humans, stories that definitely would indicate emotion to any sensible person.  Unfortunately, emotion in animals cannot be proven, because they cannot talk (with the notable exception of Koko the signing gorilla and Alex the parrot).  And because animals-as-objects are important to research and industry, this is a subject that no one wants to touch.  Although at times the writing in the book is somewhat bland, I recommend it and am grateful to people like Masson, Jane Goodall, and Marc Bekoff who are not afraid to bring this issue to the forefront.	2003-07-15
US	48584321	R3ERQ5SXNHAX2I	1585671886	890978873	Marilyn Encyclopedia	Books	5	1	2	N	N	AMAZING!	As a rather new Marilyn fan/collector, this book is invaluable to me as a resource.  It is a huge book, alphabetized and cross-referenced, covering everything from movies, music, books, and biographies to gowns, hotels, cars, cities, and family.  There are also, of course, hundreds of gorgeous pictures!  What I'm enjoying the most is that as I read other Marilyn books, I can fact-check and look up obscurely mentioned items to learn more, or gain perspective.  An objective, fact-filled, exhaustive collection of Marilyn trivia.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R3FL7TSPBMGA1C	0385507607	23679385	The Probable Future (Hoffman, Alice)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	familiar, but still beautiful	As someone who has read all of Alice Hoffman's books, I feel that her latest seems a little formulaic when compared with some of the others (especially _Practical Magic_).  It is a story of three women of the magical, bewitching Sparrow family:  the men they are and are not supposed to be with, townspeople who don't understand and therefore fear them, and the tricky relationships within their own family.  Since the story line seemed so familiar it took a little while for the book to snare me, however, the ending is beautiful and made it all worthwhile.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	RG115ZEFHM1WG	0151008884	472760741	The Life Before Her Eyes	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Beautiful and Unexpected	A carefully written and timely story about a woman who was involved in a school shooting during her senior year,  _The Life Before Her Eyes_ was both a quick read and difficult to put down.  At the beginning of the book, the reader is introduced to a pair of best friends primping in the mirror when gunshots ring out.  Just as they begin to realize they are in danger, the shooter --a boy from their biology class-- walks into the bathroom.  Reminiscent of some of the stories to come out of the Columbine tragedy, the girls' classmate asks them which one he should kill.  The rest of the book flows from that moment in both flashbacks and in the present day, when the girl who tells the shooter she wants to live is a grown woman.  The book ends with a poetic twist, but most astute readers will not find it entirely surprising.  A very enjoyable and well written book.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R9NOEHRG3HHPW	0140065172	529046584	Ordinary People	Books	5	1	1	N	N	wonderfully refreshing	I've owned this book for quite awhile without reading it, and when I finally did I never expected what I found:  a compelling look into the grief and mental illness under the facade of a &quot;normal&quot; wealthy suburban family.  Focusing mainly on the son (Conrad) and the father (Calvin), the book explores the difficulty of recovering and communicating after the death of a loved one.  Each family member handles the situation differently: for example, Conrad has recently been released from an eight month stay in a mental hospital for trying to commit suicide.  This book is a very quick read and written in such a way that I was able to relate just as well to father and son, and I felt as though I was going through the healing process with them.  Although written in the 70's the book will never lose its relevance.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R1RTSPOCLISP0T	0802135196	175817283	Valley of the Dolls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	both fun and sad	This is an amazingly enjoyable, funny, and ultimately heartbreaking book which could only have been written by a show-business insider like Susann.  We meet the three main characters as naive girls as they are just starting out in New York City trying to land the jobs (and the men) of their dreams.  Through the rest of the book all three of them become wiser, more mature, and more bitter as they realize what will be required of them in order reach their goals.  &quot;Dolls&quot; are the downers and uppers they begin to rely on along the way...  a pop culture must-read!	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R3OU3VWWGBGBMY	0316776661	251649592	Make Believe: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	tragic and atmospheric	This book both drew me in with its beauty and realistic portrayal of 3-year-old Bo's thoughts and repelled me with its unstoppable sense of tragedy.  About responsibility and piousness as well as familial love, Scott also deals admirably with the tricky subject of interracial relationships.  Bo's father dies before he is born, so he is left in the care of his still teen-aged mother (who has been disowned by her own family for falling in love with Kanon, who is African-American and Bo's father) and his father's loving parents.  When his mother, Jenny, dies, a custody battle ensues between the grandparents and the situation escalates into one which is dangerous for everyone.  I recommend this book due to the poetry of Scott's writing, and also the beautiful fragmentary style with which she switches between characters in the past and present.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R4OQ92ZHD3SQ3	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	a slightly hesitant recommendation	I read this book knowing that it had changed people's lives, so maybe I expected too much, but while I thought the book was wonderfully written I was never able to fully sympathize with the main character, Carrie Bell.  The book begins with Carrie's fiance diving off a pier into a too-low Wisconsin lake and becoming paralyzed; however, the real tragedy is that Carrie had already decided to break up with him when the event occurs, and blames herself for the accident.  As Mike comes out of his coma and enters physical therapy, Carrie begins making drastic decisions about her life and future, but seems to execute them impulsively with little thought to the ripple of consequences affecting everyone around her.  I would still recommend the book.  It will hit close to home for a lot of people (it did for me), but nevertheless, some of the details just didn't ring true.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R22CX4M15A8DR6	0967761700	910106513	The Marilyn Diaries	Books	4	9	10	N	N	haunting	I think that all Marilyn fans WANT TO KNOW; we want to know how she really felt, thought, lived, and died.  The fiction and non-fiction books all portray a much different woman, whether nasty and sexually aggressive or naive and scared (she was all these, I think).  This fictional diary by Charles Casillo is fascinating because he got inside her head so well I occasionally forgot I wasn't actually reading Marilyn's thoughts...  I felt upon finishing that if we could read her real diary, it would be something like Casillo's verson.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R30DDWNGL4XM5X	0374514429	36054596	The Pine Barrens	Books	4	7	7	N	N	outdated, but very informative	John McPhee's book about the still-wild region of New Jersey called the Pine Barrens is a must-read for anyone interested in ecology or regional culture.  When it was written in 1967, a great disservice had been done to the people of the Pines (called &quot;Pineys&quot;) through the release of studies claiming they were all slow, stupid, and inbred; McPhee did much to dispell these harmful myths.  He also discusses the unique flora and fauna of the area, and the possibility of development, which fortunately never occured.  I also recommend  _Cranberry Queen_ by Kathleen DeMarco for a fictional taste of the Pine Barrens region.	2003-07-14
US	48584321	R30JE7FE0BXY2E	0815411022	263782568	My Story	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a marilyn fan necessity	Whether you believe that Marilyn herself or friend Ben Hecht wrote this book, it is a must-own for any collector.  With short, charming chapters that you can almost hear  being whispered to you in Marilyn's little girl voice, the book truly captures her persona.  How awful to get to the end, knowing her troubles are barely beginning!	2003-07-14
