US	48657377	R1HNQEMSV40NFS	0198752199	207224935	Augustine: Christian Truth and Fractured Humanity (Christian Theology in Context)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	St. Augustine and his Times	It is said that if anyone claims to have read all of Augustine, he is a liar.  Certainly, given the sheer amount of written works by Augustine, some even found recently, this is a reasonable phrase.  But Coral Harrison comes very close to proving this phrase wrong.<br />In this exceptionally well-written text, Harrison outlines the major threads in Augustine's thought, seeing them in the context of his life and his times.  Along with this, she clearly has a good grasp on the veritable ocean of secondary literature on Augustine.<br />For those not familiar with St. Augustine's theology and philosophy, this is an excellent introduction to the bishop of Hippo Regius.  For those who are familiar with Augustine, or even specialize in him, this is still a helpful text.  As Augustine's thought goes both far and wide, Harrison illustrates the connections between them, as well as helping the experienced reader see elements of Augustine's thought that he/she may not be familiar with.<br />As a warning, though - one should not take this text as exhaustive.  So, for instance, on Augustine's political theory and views on coercion, Harrison gives some pages to this, but only hinting at its complexity.  Certainly, this says nothing bad about her book - one can't address everything in 220 pages.  But it is a caution.<br />One other note.  One sees, at times, &quot;context&quot; used in as a codeword for &quot;postmodern&quot; or the like.  Thankfully, this book is spared that nonsense.  Harrison's book is solid, well-versed in primary and secondary literature, and not pedantic.  Highly recommended.	2004-04-12
US	48657377	R303TLW0J3EGIL	0830814914	588241483	Ancient Christian Commentary on Scripture: Romans	Books	4	39	42	N	N	A place to begin	The ACCS series, of which this volume on Romans is a part, is a place to begin in terms of patristic commentary, not a place to end.  If this series had claimed to be an in-depth and comprehensive collection on the Church Fathers' statements on Scripture, then many of the critiques leveled at it would be justified.  However, these negative reviews are aiming at a straw man.<br />The ACCS series provides selected commentary by various thinkers in the early centuries of Christianity regarding the various books of the Bible.  Even with its selectivity, these books are hundreds of pages long (compared to the at most thirty or so pages of the actual Scriptural text).  To try and be as comprehensive as some reviewers seem to be demanding, the volume on Romans would no doubt have to be at least three large volumes itself.<br />The series creators hoped these volumes could help encourage cross-denominational discussion with these formative thinkers.  It is a starting place for thinking and discussing, not the end.  Perhaps the best use of these volumes are as time-savers.  Even the best Patristics scholar will not have the location of every comment on a particular Scripture verse by the Fathers right of the top of his/her head.  And they may not want to spend the time of going through the index of, say, every volume in the Ante-Nicene, Nicene, and Post-Nicene Fathers series (all, what, 28 of them?).  Instead, the scholar can look quickly at this volume from the ACCS, looking to see what various Fathers had to say, then go to the original document to see the topic in context, where the various commentaries can be compared.  Certainly, the ACCS volume on Romans is useful for that.<br />If one is looking for every comment from every Church Father on Scripture, this is not the series for you.  But, then again, that's not what this series intended to be in the first place.  But, as a starting place for further research, it is excellent.	2004-02-01
US	48657377	R109IZFXE0IQKY	0521437695	412272516	The Cambridge Companion to Aquinas (Cambridge Companions to Philosophy)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent work	St. Thomas Aquinas was not a man short of words.  The depth of his thinking, and the sheer volume of his texts, makes his thinking both profound and difficult.  But most of all, the aspiring student of Thomas' work may be afraid to face the daunting task of diving into the vast ocean of Thomas' words.<br />For them, this volume is exactly what they need.<br />By gathering up some of the top Aquinas scholars in the field, this volume presents the major topics of Aquinas' work in a lucid, considered, and (most importantly) easily understood way.  While certainly not comprehensive (that is not its aim, and after all, the book would be another 500 pages at least), any potential Thomist scholar would be greatly served by this volume.  Not only do the various authors give the reader a general overview of Thomas' thought and development, they also introduce some of the disputes going on within academic Thomistic studies.  As such, this volume is a good starting point for those interested in Aquinas, be it an academic interest or an desire to learn about the life and thought of a Doctor of the Church.<br />Admittedly, one should not try and delve into this book with no previous background into Thomas' thought.  It does presume some level of familiarity with the terminology Aquinas gained from Aristotle, as well as from the Church Fathers and others.  Given this, a general background in philosophy and/or patristic/scholastic theology should suffice for most of the work.<br />If you want to understand Aquinas, but are just starting out, you should have this book on your shelf.  Highly Recommended.	2003-12-15
US	48657377	RJZZCIFS5W5WJ	0742522326	887938989	The Just War: Force and Political Responsibility	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Good Work to Have	This book by Paul Ramsey is intelligent and insightful in its discussion of the just war doctrine.  While many would say the best work on the doctrine in the last 40 years is Walzer's &quot;Just and Unjust Wars,&quot; I consider this far superior.<br />Ramsey, a Methodist theologian, considers the doctrine in terms of his religion.  This is quite helpful, as the doctrine (at its inception and for most of its history) was intermixed with theology.  By taking religion seriously, Ramsey manages to show some of the errors of modern just war theory, especially as regards questions with ius in bello.<br />Along with this, Ramsey dedicates chapters to enduring and difficult questions for the doctrine, regarding nuclear deterrence as well as counter-insurgency combat (to name merely two).  Ramsey is able to get the reader to think through the hard questions, and think seriously about the just war doctrine, what it means and what it requires.<br />There is only one criticism I have of the book.  It is a collection of articles and such that Ramsey wrote.  As such, the reader will often times find the same arguments or preliminary discussions repeated over and over again.  This can tend to make the book a bit of a hard read, as at times the reader will think s/he is just re-reading a previous chapter, thanks to the repetition.  Trudging through it is worthwhile, but it does slow down the pace of reading.<br />There is only one other possible critique, depending upon what the reader is interested in.  Some chapters are dedicated to discussing issues (and a translation problem) of the papal encyclical &quot;Pacem in Terris.&quot;  For Catholics (like myself) or those interested in modern Catholic interpretations on war, these chapters are quite helpful.  However, I'm not sure if others would find them as interesting.  Just something for the potential reader to keep in mind.<br />All in all, and excellent work that should be read by anyone interested in the just war doctrine.  Highly recommended.ghly recommended.	2003-11-10
US	48657377	R3SBT1JDFQW4CE	0807057991	489751212	The Gnostic Religion	Books	4	26	30	N	N	A hard read, but worthwhile	For those of us who study Church history (especially as regards heretical movements), the Gnostic heresies are some of the most important, whether from its appearance in the early centuries of Christianity, to the conflicts with the Manichaeans, even on into the Middle Ages with the Cathars and the Bogomils, and possibly now with the rise of a more feminist-tinged neo-Gnosticism a la &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; and Pangels' works.  For those of us interested in these topics, this is a must read.<br />Jonas delves into the origins and development of various Gnostic sects and their histories, in themselves and in connection with Christianity.  He makes good use of the (at the time) recently discovered Nag Hammadi documents (as much as was available then) and previous histories/documents regarding the Gnostics.  The book focuses on the Gnostic sects around the time of the Roman Empire, and does not extend into the Gonstic revivals in times after.  Considering the amount of information available on Gnostic mythology, it is understandable that Jonas would keep his focus limited.<br />As a warning, if one is looking for an easy-to-read introduction to the Gnostic sects and heresies, this is not the book to read.  It presumes some previous knowledge of the Gnostics, and is most obviously geared towards academics.  If you are somewhat familiar with the heresy, and/or are an academic, this is a work to have.<br />Jonas near the end makes some connections between Gnostic thought and that of more modern existentialists.  Whether he is correct or not, I leave to the reader.<br />While some of this work is dated, it does provide core insights into the Gnostic history and heresy, and should be read through by those interested in understanding this most tenacious of heretical sects.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R7HRDWHB4MOFZ	0465081894	166988503	Spheres Of Justice: A Defense Of Pluralism And Equality	Books	2	88	99	N	N	The other shoe never drops	Before critiquing this book, Mr. Walzer should be given some credit.  He manages to make a good argument for pluralism, equality, and the like, and avoids the deus ex machina thought experiments a la Rawls (with &quot;original positions&quot;) or the like.  For that, Mr. Walzer should be thanked.<br />Now for the problems.  Walzer, author of &quot;Just and Unjust Wars&quot; and &quot;On Toleration&quot; (among many others), is trying to defend a certain order of society where differences can be accepted and equality may be ensured.  But Walzer's arguments suffer from a major problem - his starting point(s) are left undefended, and indeed sometimes even undefined.  The key to his system is &quot;shared meanings,&quot; an idea that he has used in other works (like &quot;Just and Unjust Wars&quot; [J&amp;UW]) under various names.  What these shared meanings are, Walzer generally avoids saying directly.  As he mentioned in J&amp;UW, Walzer tends to avoid the more complex questions of the foundations for morality and the like - he tends, in practice anyway, to be an antifoundationalist.  This presents a problem - he gives the reader all these beautifully reasoned arguments for his idea of society, but always leaves the starting-point out.  As such, it is hard to make much of his argument, if you may find yourself in disagreement with his elusive first principles.<br />Walzer argues that he's starting with &quot;shared meanings,&quot; and just following out logically what that entails.  In practice, this results in a social democratic, left-oriented society.  Fine.  But one feels a sleight-of-hand is being played.  The &quot;shared meanings&quot; are rather vague.  Moreover, &quot;shared&quot; by whom?  While Walzer gives some discussion to this, the question lingers.  Shared by all those in Western society?  By those in only one country?  By those in one class?  By those on the editorial board of &quot;Dissent&quot; magazine?  The reader may find that s/he is locked into the &quot;logical result&quot; of premises that were unknown in the beginning.<br />Having written all that, this is a very important book in political thoery/philosophy.  If those are areas you are interested in, you should read this book.  While well-argued, I find it less than compelling (for the reasons discussed above).  I could be wrong.  Read and decide for yourself.the &quot;logical result&quot; of premises that were unknown in the beginning.<br />Having written all that, this is a very important book in political thoery/philosophy.  If those are areas you are interested in, you should read this book.  While well-argued, I find it less than compelling (for the reasons discussed above).  I could be wrong.  Read and decide for yourself.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R2XBPFSAK3PNIB	0631222766	441508307	Medieval Heresy: Popular Movements from the Gregorian Reform to the Reformation	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Good Book to Have	Lambert's book manages to cover a large amount of history in readable and helpful manner.  It is a great introduction into the heresies of the medieval period.<br />This is really an introductory work - one comes to know the major heresies about at the time, as well as how the Church attempted to deal with the situation and how the secular governments reacted.  For those of us trying to get a start into the field, this book is most helpful.  Not only does it give you an overview of the topic, but the amount of citation is extremely useful for further study.  The short glossary is also helpful in keeping straight the various groups being mentioned.<br />Another benefit of this work is how it manages to avoid falling into an unfortunately typical problem - the genuflecting to heresy.  While some historians tend to fall into seeing the heretics as wonderful, creative, populist bodies cruelly put down by the oppressive, corrupt, arrogant, mean, etc., etc. Church, Lambert thankfully takes a much more distanced and objective look at the matter.  He relates who, what, when, where, and offers some discussion on why, without falling into the worship of the &quot;wretched of the earth.&quot;<br />If there would be any critique, it would be the lack of a time table to keep the various groups organized in time (for the benefit of the reader).  But, it doesn't really warrant a star marked off (oh, if only one could put in four and a half stars).  This work is readable and easily accessable.  Anyone interested in this topic or time period should pick this book up, whether academic or interested layperson.  Highly recommended.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R12M0EY84UIFEN	0875805566	778863258	In Defense of the Indians: The Defense of the Most Reverend Lord, Don Fray Bartolome De Las Casas, of the Order of Preachers, Late Bishop of Chiapa	Books	4	36	38	N	N	An interesting read, but be prepared	Las Casas is an interesting figure: bishop, Dominican, late scholastic, polemicist, he spent great amounts of time and effort in order to ensure the equitable treatment of the American natives by the Spaniards.  This tome is a good example of his toils.<br />This book (if memory serves) is basically the defense of the native peoples Las Casas presented at the Council of Valladolid against various others, most especially a theologian named Sepulveda (who argued, among other things, that the natives were Aristotelian &quot;natural slaves&quot;).  Las Casas makes his case that the natives are fully human, can be converted, and should be treated rightly.  In the process of doing this, Las Casas touches on (among other things) the nature of the Church, conversion and &quot;scandal,&quot; and the just war tradition.  Las Casas manages to pile quite a bit into this work.<br />The reader should prepare, though, for a somewhat difficult read.  Las Casas was using every argumentative means available to make his case for the Indians.  He goes from scholastic argument and legal discussion (often times repeatedly bringing up the same or similar point) to out and out polemics and ad hominem attacks.  The work is not terribly systematic, and can seem a bit frenzied.<br />Having written that, though, it is a fascinating read by a remarkable bishop.  Those interested in the time of exploration, the relations between the Europeans and the Indians, a practical use of Thomistic thinking and canon law, or of conversion in a foreign land. should read this book.  The translation by Poole is excellent, as is his citing of works mentioned/implied in Las Casas' arguments.  Highly recommended.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R2446KE4BX47C7	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A rather interesting read	First, the problem with this book.  As has been mentioned by many reviewers (both here and elsewhere), this book is effectively concerned with left-leaning intellectuals, and not merely intellectuals generally.  Johnson may have been better served focusing on some others of a more conservative bent, but then again, perhaps not.  I rather doubt Michael Oakeshott was living the swinging lifestyle, and the oddites of the Objectivist Ayn Rand are well-known.  Burke may make for an interesting story (though not a scandalous one), but might be questionably an &quot;intellectual&quot; (more a thinking practitioner).  And Strauss is a whole complexity in and of himself....<br />Johnson's book does a wonderful job of poking some holes in the grand histories of various intellectuals, from Rousseau to Hellman.  With many of them, it's rather enlightening - while preaching love of humanity and so forth, these people tended to use and abuse those around them in almost aristocratic fashion.  Collecting the various unpleasantries about these high figures, Johnson in a way makes them more human.  This is not necessarily a good thing for them, as they tend to be rather horrid human beings.<br />This book's strength is it reminds the reader to be cautious regarding those considered &quot;intellectuals&quot; - indeed, it fosters some useful skepticism.  Even the highly educated can tend towards a herd mentality - Johnson's book does a good job of illustrating that.  It is a good and enjoyable book, especially worthwhile for those in/interested in academia and some of its major figures.  Recommended.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R1RJJ05MA8RCB1	0451183665	239863830	A Case of Need	Books	1	13	26	N	N	Trite	This is the first, and at this point only, book written by Mr. Crichton that I have read.  It hasn't exactly inspired me to read any others.<br />The story, as the other reviewers have mentioned, is a medical murder mystery.  One thing the curious reader should keep in mind, however, is that the book also is very much involved in the abortion controversy.  If memory serves, it was written and originally published in the early 1970s (but sometime before the Roe v. Wade decision), and you can certainly tell Mr. Crichton's opinion on the matter.  If you are pro-life/anti-abortion/etc., keep in mind that this book will be at times rather teeth-grinding.<br />But, even with the political/moral issue aside, this work is dreadful.  The characters having a stunning resemblence to cardboard cut-outs, the plot meanders like a drunken sailor, all leading up to a conclusion both compressed and totally out of left field (not as in &quot;oh, that's inventive!&quot; but in a more deus ex machina &quot;deadline's coming - I have to wrap this up quick&quot;).<br />Looking at the other reviews, apparently Mr. Crichton's writing has since improved.  One can only hope.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R3N3TL9MDIQ5ES	0674005422	78767720	The Law of Peoples: with "The Idea of Public Reason Revisited"	Books	1	29	59	N	N	An unfortunate book	First, some disclosure regarding my opinion of Rawls (may he rest in peace).  I am no fan of Rawls' work, be it this work or his others.  As such, my own views will no doubt influence my opinion, so keep that in mind as you read on.<br />This book is divided into two parts, the first dedicated to the &quot;Law of Peoples,&quot; the second to public reason.  In the interests of space, I will only concentrate on the first portion.<br />The Law of Peoples is Rawls' attempt to bring his notions of justice as fairness and the like into the international scene.  Using a modified &quot;original position,&quot; Rawls discusses the way the international scene would run, not only with liberal societies, but also &quot;decent&quot; and &quot;outlaw&quot; states (among others).  Fine and good.<br />The problem lies (as it does with &quot;Theory of Justice&quot; and &quot;Political Liberalism&quot;) in the acceptance of what the &quot;original position&quot; would result in.  The original position requires that &quot;comprehensive doctrines&quot; be left to the side (read &quot;Theory&quot; for more on that).  In other words, your (or a people's) worldview (or deep notion of the good) must be cast aside.  This is problematic enough, but it gets worse.  Rawls wants a &quot;political, not metaphysical&quot; notion of justice to prevail.  By happy chance, that &quot;political&quot; notion just happends to be liberal, of a moderate left variety.  Rawls would deny that he is slipping in his &quot;comprehensive doctrine&quot; into the works, but it does make things difficult.<br />So, say a people decides that they prefer their own comprehensive doctrine (a religion, an ideology of one type or another, etc.) to the &quot;political&quot; version of Rawls.  Rawls argues that &quot;reasonable&quot; peoples will accept it, at least on some level, thanks to an &quot;overlapping consensus&quot; (very basically, that the political notion will overlap enough with the comprehensive doctrine, making it acceptable at some level).  Both &quot;reasonable&quot; and &quot;overlapping consensus&quot; are argued at length in &quot;Political Liberalism.&quot;  The consensus idea has some merit.  But who are &quot;reasonable&quot;?  Why, they are the peoples who follow the original position's precepts, of course.  How....convenient.<br />While Rawls would not agree, this system (like his national systems in &quot;Theory&quot; and &quot;PL&quot;) is in practice the imposition of comprehensive liberalism by other means.  When reading Rawls, it isn't a bad idea to have some critiques on his work handy (for instance: Michael Sandel, Robert P. George, perhaps Gutmann &amp; Thompson, among others).  Rawls is a giant in the field, whether one agrees with him or not.  If one wants to understand contemporary political theory, he should be read - but read &quot;Theory&quot; or &quot;PL&quot;.  If you are interested in political theory as it involves international relations, read &quot;PL&quot;, then read this, not because it's great, but it's popular.aking it acceptable at some level).  Both &quot;reasonable&quot; and &quot;overlapping consensus&quot; are argued at length in &quot;Political Liberalism.&quot;  The consensus idea has some merit.  But who are &quot;reasonable&quot;?  Why, they are the peoples who follow the original position's precepts, of course.  How....convenient.<br />While Rawls would not agree, this system (like his national systems in &quot;Theory&quot; and &quot;PL&quot;) is in practice the imposition of comprehensive liberalism by other means.  When reading Rawls, it isn't a bad idea to have some critiques on his work handy (for instance: Michael Sandel, Robert P. George, perhaps Gutmann &amp; Thompson, among others).  Rawls is a giant in the field, whether one agrees with him or not.  If one wants to understand contemporary political theory, he should be read - but read &quot;Theory&quot; or &quot;PL&quot;.  If you are interested in political theory as it involves international relations, read &quot;PL&quot;, then read this, not because it's great, but it's popular.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R7RRSE09Q7RP8	0553580272	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Mixed Novel	This book isn't bad, in and of itself.  Taking place in the world of the Dune series, but decades before the first Dune novel, it is a pleasant read.  For Dune junkies, it is rather nice to see the familiar characters - the dread Baron, Duke Leto, and so forth.  It makes for an easy, quick read.<br />But therein lies the problem.  Almost by definition, a Dune novel is never a &quot;quick read.&quot;  Frank Herbert's books generally took some re-reading in order to understand what he was getting at (unless one is either a superficial reader or very good at grasping complexity quickly).  Whether in the digressions that, while not dealing directly with the story at hand, enhanced the feel of this alien universe, or in putting the &quot;wheels within wheels within wheels&quot; of the plots together, Frank Herbert wrote works that were meant to challenge the reader and force some thinking.  This novel, however, just doesn't come close.<br />Having written that, I'll probably end up buying the two following works as well.  Again, the story itself isn't bad - it's a fine, run-of-the-mill, not terribly challenging read.  Nothing wrong with that.  But compared to the dense and wonderful world chronicled by Frank Herbert, it is but a mere shadow.	2003-11-09
US	48657377	R3PAAXOI1BAYTJ	0688123023	451287545	Inventing the Middle Ages	Books	2	30	41	N	N	The bibliography the only saving grace	It's generally acknowldged among medievalists that Norman Cantor can be a good scholar.  It is also acknowldged that this book is basically a scorched-earth screed, by which Cantor tries to &quot;get even&quot; with many in the field, living and dead.  For instance, in the 1997 preface to Kantorowicz's magisterial &quot;The King's Two Bodies,&quot; William C. Jordan mentions that Kantorowicz's life had been &quot;written and rewritten by intelligent admirers and at least one crank&quot; (p. xi).  In the footnotes, this book is included.  While Jordan was tactful enough to leave unsaid which authors fell under which description, those familiar with intra-field politics are fully aware of which author is the &quot;crank.&quot;<br />I must agree with the reader from Silicon Valley, USA: this work truly is the venting of a bitter academic.  Generally speaking, the one great merit of this book is giving the aspiring medievalist (like myself) the names of some of the more important scholars in twentieth-century medieval studies.  The bibliography is also helpful in this regard.  The actual text, however, is far more questionable.  When Cantor isn't sneering about this scholar or that, he gives the reader his trite psychoanalysis of other scholars.  If one feeling pulses through this work, it is Cantor's arrogance.<br />A shame, really - he could do much better.  Instead, he tried to settle scores.  And thus, among many medievalists, his name is a curse.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R3OVOA0E2I59G5	0805070869	535954953	To Hell and Back	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A must read	Audie Murphy is truly a hero.  This is self-evident.  His book deals very well with giving the feeling of being a soldier, with the incredible stress that comes from being in a life-and-death situation.  This feeling includes anger, and apathy, and friendship.  Murphy describes the events of his time in service straight-forwardly and clearly.<br />For anyone studying war, whether in terms of history, military science, morality in war, etc., this book is a must read.  In the bird's eye view of war, one sees strategies, tactics, political imperatives, and the like.  This work will always serve to remind scholars and interested amatuers of the costs of battle, and the strength of the men who risk their lives for their country.  The reader will remember, not just that battles occur, but that in these conflicts, soldiers must face (as Murphy talks about) friends dying, men they were just talking to being vaporized by a mortar, good soldiers having their nerves suddenly break (having heard one bomb too many), and the like.<br />This book helps those who study war to always remember the human element - both in terms of the tragedy for those involved, but also the courage of those involved.  Highly recommended.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R2BOZNWYUG0OJ	382287213X	949724687	Gustav Klimt, 1862-1918: The World in Female Form (Big Series Art)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good, but....	Klimt's art, whether one is a fan or not, is seen everywhere.  Rarely can one spend much time in a college dormitory before running into &quot;The Kiss&quot; or another poster of Klimt.  This book itself is a nice collection of his various artworks over his career.  However, the text leaves much to be desired.  To the author's credit, he avoids taking at face value many of the risque rumors that surround Klimt's life.  Instead, the author attempts to psychoanalyze him, and the &quot;crisis of the male liberal ego.&quot;  This seems quite a trick, as the author even admits that Klimt was rather reticient about talking about himself or leaving a paper trail of his life.  As such, and especially by removing the rumors from the equation, the author seems to have blessed little to go on to try and delve into Klimt's mind.  In this regard, I must agree with Barzun - this type of psychological history is questionable at best.  If you do consider purchasing this work, do it for the artwork - don't bother yourself with the text.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	RYTNRYO1N2BN9	0803936370	455374267	The  Augustinian Imperative: A Reflection on the Politics of Modernity (Modernity and Political Thought)	Books	2	8	25	N	N	Dreadful	It would seem a good rule of thumb to approach with caution any work dedicated to a thinker in the Western canon, only to find that Nietzsche and Foucault are analyzed almost as much as the thinker that is supposedly the focus of examination.<br />Let's put it bluntly: Connolly is less than a fan of St. Augustine.  As he writes in the Preface, he wants to examine, not Augustine himself exactly, but rather &quot;the Augustinian Imperative, the insistence that there is an intrinsic moral order to susceptible to authoritative representation.&quot;  This is linked to &quot;an obligatory pursuit: the quest to move closer to one's truest self by exploring its inner geography.&quot;  This also involves looking at practices of &quot;moralization of the self and demoralization of the other.&quot;<br />Needless to say, this work is postmodernist.  Effectively, Augustine becomes Connolly's whipping-boy for the postmodern critique of ideas like objective morality and the like.  I am cautious of saying too much, as this work (like most PoMo pieces) is nuanced-to-death, and therefore hard to summarize.<br />So, I'll put it this way: if you are deeply interested in St. Augustine's political thought (and need to know the secondary literature), or are a postmodernist, you should own this book.  If you do not fall into one of these categories, spare yourself a great deal of pain and don't even pick it up.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R3E00XFHJCS5LX	3822859850	422535632	Hopper	Books	3	28	30	N	N	If it's all you can find	This work is of medium value.  The collection of reproductions is good, both in terms of the amount of them, as well as their quality.  Certainly it's nothing overly-impressive, but it is a fine collection.<br />The problem lies more in the commentary.  Renner spends a great deal of time on &quot;re-codings&quot; in Hooper's work, leading to many...interesting conclusions.  As one reads along, one gets the impression that Hooper himself didn't have a great deal to say (espeically compared to artists, like Dali, who can't shut up), so Renner instead fills the space with what lamentably passes for art criticism these days (mostly of the postmodern and psychologizing variety).  I wasn't terribly impressed.<br />Everything considered, you would be better served by another Hooper book from Taschen, this one written by Ivo Kranzfelder.  Kranzfelder takes much greater care to deal with the little amount Hopper said, and (while the current style does occur to an extent) the commentary tends to be much more lucid as regards Hopper's works.  Additionally, that volume has a much larger and better variety of Hopper's works than Renner's.<br />That being said, if one cannot get a hold on Kranzfelder's book, or does not want to spend the extra money for it, Renner's work is acceptable.  The commentary isn't swell, but it is still passable.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R2D7HVNTJ7Y6PI	0800628802	996583047	Bible in Christian North Africa	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent work	First, some disclosure - Tilley was the professor to introduce me to St. Augustine's work in a seminar at the University of Dayton, for which I am eternally grateful.  So, naturally, I shall be a bit biased in her favor.<br />Having said that, this work is excellent on many levels.  First, Tilley shows a exceptional knowledge of the Donatist heresy, both in terms of facts and also for the &quot;feel&quot; of Donatist piety.  She presents very well the style of thinking and types of discourse that the Donatists used, and why it makes sense for them to have done so.  Second, Tilley approaches the Donatists in an intellectually fair manner.  On the one hand, she is not joining in the (oft-times polemical) attacks in the style of the orthodox writers, and on the other hand does not present the Donatist heresy as a group that can do no wrong (and thereby avoids the adulation given by some scholars to any movement with the word &quot;heresy&quot; attached to it).  Third, by presenting the context (in history and culture) within which the Donatists existed, one comes away with a very helpful understanding of how Donatism fit into its time and place.<br />All in all, an excellent work.  Anyone interested in St. Augustine, patristic-era church history, or heresy should have this book on his/her shelf.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	RJ5C2ECUF8YWT	0804722455	367920814	The World in Their Minds: Information Processing, Cognition, and Perception in Foreign Policy Decisionmaking	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An unjustly unknown work	In terms of decision-making in foreign policy, this work should be a classic.  Vertzberger is both comprehensive as well as challenging in this book.  While admittedly this is no light read, it is well worth the effort.  The research possibilities that can be gleaned from Verzberger's theoretical considerations in themselves make this book worthwhile.  It is a pity it is not better read and cited in the relevant literature.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R1TO9DXNK0LT27	0691017042	635160069	The King's Two Bodies	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A Classic	&quot;The King's Two Bodies,&quot; decades after its publication, is still one of the definitive works on political theology relating to kingship during the middle ages.  The level of research and investigation Kantorowicz shows in this volume is truly impressive.  If one wants to have a good understanding of some of the issues and developments regarding the place of the king, the idea of law, and so forth, this is a volume to read.<br />If there is any problem with the work, it may be its dryness.  At times, it is quite easy for the text to blur in front of one's eyes as Kantorowicz delves into a (necessary) digression on a term or idea.  However, this is not a fair critique - considering the type of analysis he is doing, and the sheer breadth of sources, one shouldn't expect a light read from this volume.  I highly recommend it for anyone interested in Medieval political thought/theology, or in Medieval notions of kingship.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R3V3OV7BATSGNM	0830814876	842394228	Ancient Christian Commentary on Scripture, New Testament II: Mark (Vol 2)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A place to start, not to end	This volume (and I wager the rest of the series) is useful if one approaches it with the right perspective.  Certainly, this book is not (and could never be) a substitute for reading and examining the Church Fathers and their considerations on Scripture.  However, if one uses this work more for quick reference and leads, it can be most helpful.  After all, the sheer volume of the Fathers' works prevents even the most learned patristics scholar from remembering who commented on what verse.  As an example, I have used this volume to quickly find some comments on the verse regarding rendering unto Caesar what is Caesar's - seeing some of the comments listed, I then went to the source and read the Fathers' comments in context.  This volume, then, is a tool (perhaps a shortcut) to find certain texts that may be of use.<br />Is this volume comprehensive?  No.  But, even in its current state, it is over 200 pages (when the Gospel of Mark, in the New American version, is about 35 pages) - trying to collect all the commentary by the Fathers would extend the length much more.  As such, it is a starting point, useful for quick reference.  It should not be held to a higher standard than that.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R3I138VHV3EBIG	0226310809	279155337	The Descent of Political Theory: The Genealogy of an American Vocation	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Puts things in perspective	Gunnell's work does a great service for American political theory, as well as US political science as a whole.  In this book, Gunnell traces how the study of politics developed in the United States, and how the current separation between political science and political theory came about.  Avoiding the self-made histories of these fields (for the poliscientists, that the &quot;true&quot; study of politics came about around the behavioralist revolution; for the politheorists, that they are merely the continuation of an unbroken line of thinkers), the author presents a fine history of how the field of political science became what it is.<br />Gunnell describes how political scientists early on tried to emulate the more German style of academia (and along with that, picked up notions about the State, rather than the more English style of institutions), and then began to head in a new direction.  Things became more complex with the entry of European scholars escaping from the Third Reich around the second world war, most especially in the person of Leo Strauss.  Gunnell shows how the various personalities and events of the century shaped the field and its current discontents.<br />This makes for a good read, both for information and for its well-written prose.  For theorists, it is enjoyable to see how little the rhetoric of &quot;number-crunchers&quot; on the always-on-the-horizon &quot;political science as science&quot; vision has changed in a hundred years.  For poliscientists, it will tickle their fancy to see how theorists were rather instrumental in their own marginalization.<br />But more importantly than score-settling, this book shows how the separation of theory and science did not have to be the way it is.  Moreover, Gunnell shows well how tragic the situation has become for the subfields and the field as a whole, both in terms of intra-field civility as well as in terms of the ability for political science (in all its forms) to have an effect on the real world of politics.<br />There are only point that is slightly problematic in this work.  Gunnell is obviously in support of political science being more active in politics, and shows the more activist bent to the field in its origins.  This aim, however, is one that is not necessarily shared - many poliscientists are of the opinion that they are scientists, not policy-wonks (and should remain thus), and some politheorists tend to the same notion (except replace &quot;scientist&quot; with &quot;philosopher&quot;).  Perhaps Gunnell could have explained more the importance of activism in political science, and pointed more to some solution.  But, perhaps another book would better serve that purpose.<br />The is an excellent book.  It should be required reading for every member of the American Political Science Association.	2003-10-23
US	48657377	R11VEIGOTHZNCM	1893554120	824181499	The Killing of History: How Literary Critics and Social Theorists Are Murdering Our Past	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Work for Many Fields	This book is both entertaining and informative, and not only for those focused on history as a discipline.  The structuralist/postmodernist/et. al. movement has debilitated many fields in the last decade or so.  Windschuttle's book is a good response.<br />One of the problems with the styles of writing/thinking that the author addresses in &quot;The Killing of History&quot; is the appeal of such styles.  My area of study is philosophy, and originally (like any sane person) saw postmodernism, etc. as completely cracked.  After a while, though, it seemed more appealing by the assumptions it questioned and such.  This book gives a great deal of evidence, and logically thought-out critiques, of how the new styles are in fact contradictory and often times just plainly trite.<br />While one may not agree with all of Windschuttle's conclusions (as I certainly didn't), the greatest value of the work is its relentless, and often times rather amusing, smashing of the high and mighty rhetoric of the new styles.  A must read for anyone in the humanities or social sciences.	2001-12-06
US	48657377	RQF09ZVA7960X	0802881017	772794634	4: St. Augustine: The Writings Against the Manichaeans and Against the Donatists (Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers Series 1, Volume IV)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An excellent collection	This collection of Augustine's writings against the Manichees and Donatists is wonderful.  The collection is concise, but gives the reader the necessary works to understand the Bishop's attacks and thoughts on this heresy and this schism.  Moreover, it illustrates many of the interesting points of Augustine's theology and philosophy.  For instance, his letter to Boniface in this book shows how Augustine justifies the use of coercion against schismatics, which is of great service in trying to comprehend his general views on the use of force.<br />This work (and the volume following right after) are definitely worth the price.	2001-11-03
US	48657377	R573JGVK57ITO	0631179445	599068959	The Blackwell Encyclopaedia of Political Thought	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Exceptionally helpful	While the previous reviewer is correct, that Strauss's &quot;history of political philosophy&quot; is more in-depth, one benefit of this book is its lack of a Straussian angle.  Not that Strauss's views are bad or wrong, but it is a bias.<br />This work's sheer amount of entries is very useful.  While some articles are somewhat brief, it is a good starting point for students of political philosophy.  Done by among the best minds in the field, any political philosopher who wants to have a handy reference to terms and authors should order a copy of this book.	2001-11-03
US	48657377	RMVFM4GP6BJW3	0140445285	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	For those of a philosophical bent...	From all the reviews, there is very little I can add to describe this masterpiece.  This is just a suggestion.  I have heard (though I have no idea if it's true, but it practically works all the same) that this novel was Dostoyevsky's response to Nietzche's &quot;Beyond Good and Evil.&quot;  If so, he did a wonderful job.  So, if one wishes to read Nietzche at some point, read &quot;Beyond Good and Evil,&quot; then directly follow it with this novel.  It will be well worth it.	2001-11-02
US	48657377	R3RRZAN4TSLW2J	0460873466	820499080	Utilitarianism, on Liberty (Everyman's Library)	Books	1	2	18	N	N	It's amazing he's so popular	Mill has to be among the most egotistical and arrogant of philosophers.  That is saying quite a bit.<br />&quot;On Liberty&quot; shows this very well.  In this little tract, he is hailed as focusing on the individual and extolling freedom, etc.  In fact, however, it is a rather good reflection of his dim view of the majority of humanity as &quot;mediocre&quot; (which may or may not be accurate), and his very self-serving view of eccentricity.  Why is this so?  Quite simply, this can be seen by his vaunted &quot;harm principle.&quot;  It seems great on the surface, and hard to argue that it would limit &quot;good&quot; eccentricity.  But this is not the case.  If one wishes to stretch what is considered &quot;harm,&quot; and (in following from the &quot;Considerations on Representative Government&quot;) what is considered &quot;self-protection,&quot; one would run against Mill's ideology, and one can guess that this protector of liberty would then be more than willing to come down on this &quot;dangerous&quot; eccentric.  In the end, it turns out that Mill is very supportive of eccentricity....as long as it is the eccentricity of John Stuart Mill.  Moreover, his system seems like it would only work if it became what he was arguing against: he wants to liberate (certain) people from the bonds of social prejudice.  Yet, in order to free people from the intoleration of social opinion, tolerance must become the social opinion, which would be just as biased and intolerant as the previous variety.  Perhaps this is where we have the origin of our modern &quot;tolerance of all, except the 'intolerant.'&quot;<br />For a man hailed so much for his writings, a deeper reading reveals a rather elitist and self-centered ideology.  Quite a disappointment.	2001-11-02
US	48657377	RH1MEGDZ1CH4H	0226777111	430375704	Persecution and the Art of Writing	Books	5	34	35	N	N	An excellent source for readers of philosophy	An excellent text, Strauss explicates on his views of how philosophers in times of persecution will &quot;hide&quot; their most stunning and important ideas &quot;between the lines&quot; of their works.  In this way, the authors avoid death, and also provide the deepest insight to only those intelligent enough to find it in the texts. Pay special attention to Strauss's chapter on the &quot;Guide for the Perplexed:&quot; not only is it an interesting read, but one can see Strauss himself using some of the same techniques that he claims authors of the past used.  It's all a matter of trying to understand what he truly wants to tell us.	2000-10-24
US	48657377	R2G19V2V7TNB4P	0226776948	299568134	Natural Right and History (Walgreen Foundation Lectures)	Books	5	13	18	N	N	A needed bit of classical thought for a modern age	Strauss does a wonderful job of illustrating how natural right has changed between classic and modern.  In doing so, he reveals the world of difference on the views of reality between these times.  An area of particular interest and importance is Strauss's discussion of the distinction between fact and values: for those in the social sciences, it should be a required read.  While sometimes hard to read, this work is certainly worth the effort.	2000-10-18
