US	48702608	R1KNL938RF3QV7	0684853302	194940241	The Touch	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Missing the McCullough Touch	I had anticipated an exciting and engrossing novel that is patently Colleen McCullough.  The Touch was neither, very disappointingly so.  The premise sounds promising, something akin to The Thorn Birds, full of strength, tragedy, and Australia.  If that's what you are looking for, you won't find it here.<br />The tale has the makings of an epic.  Thwarted desires, steely ambition, distinctive characters, a kinetic period of history.  McCullough creates the elements, but fails to produce anything magical.  She sets the story out fairly well in the beginning, but appears to have lost her passion for the plot as it treads the emotional depths lightly but sinks into every predictable hole imaginable.<br />The main characters, Alex and Elizabeth, are so cliche and monotoned, I lost interest in them halfway through.  As one-dimensional as they are, even they don't keep to their personalities by the conclusion, acting so out of tune and all rationality, they lose the shape of their characters entirely.  Many of the characters felt like strangers to me by the end.  The supporting players, like Ruby, Nell, and Bede, were much livelier and even thoughtful creations, but McCullough isn't very consistent with their storylines (they pop out when you want more and pop in just when you're forgetting they exist) and doesn't follow through just when you feel she is digging deeper.<br />The historical aspect of The Touch is important and it is here that McCullough shines more steadily.  The gold rush and the technology boom of the Industrial Revolution are interesting and researched.  That one man, Alexander Kinross, literally conquers the world over in all these areas is where she loses contact with reality.  Considering the remarkable skill McCullough has shown in capturing subtle layers in people and places, this sort of half-heartedness is indicative of the whole book.  She sets it up and then lacks the focus to bring it to life.<br />All in all, the sheer predictability of the action is what turned me off this novel.  It is entertaining as a novel well-written and if that was all I was expecting I wouldn't have anything to say.  The author is what makes the difference.  This is the epic queen Colleen McCullough and her audience deserves better.  Read this if you're looking for a well-written book to pass the time.	2004-03-05
US	48702608	R1DFSWS8QS8LTI	0312313810	265469425	The Dirty Girls Social Club: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fluffy fun for the beach	As long as you don't expect the second coming of Isabel Allende or Sandra Cisneros, The Dirty Girls Social Club will keep you plenty entertained on the beach or on your commute.  Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez debuts a nuanced, if unbelievable piece of \\"chica\\"-lit.<br />The six women narrate the story, each from her own perspective.  Lauren, Usnavys, Rebecca, Sara, Elizabeth, Amber encompass everything from rising from poverty to spousal abuse to living in a parent's shadow to identity crises.  The women are typical girlfriends in their late 20's with hackneyed love, family, and career problems that all get resolved in a fairly (but not entirely) predictable manner.  But what makes them fun to read is their distinctive voices and personalities.  Often an author shouldn't attempt multiple narrators because they basically all sound identical (like Summer 2002's The Boy Next Door).  To Valdes-Rodriguez's great credit, these women speak their individual minds in original ways.  That, and the author's overall sure, clear writing (especially of the primary setting, Boston) made this book a pleasure to read.<br />And it is funny - in a sarcastic, biting way.  By all accounts, Lauren is modeled after Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez.  Thanks to her sharp descriptive pen, the characters came to life in a variety of ways.  I found Lauren the least likeable although it felt as if she was meant to be the main protagonist.  Rebecca was painted negatively initially, but I found her the most relatable and the most fulfilled.  Valdes-Rodriguez writes each woman multi-faceted.  They all have problems tailored to their situations, but don't all reach the perfect answer or solution by the conclusion.  The same creativity cannot be applied to the men in the Girls' lives or the fantasy-like premises (magical $2 million investor, a number one record on multiple charts, a sensitive drug dealer).  In short, interesting women, lousy side characters, poor plot construction.<br />I am not Latina, but that didn't mean I didn't connect with The Dirty Girls.  It got me thinking about the disparity between the Latino minority and my own.  Contrary to popular belief, not all minorities bond over their status and this book really makes that clear just by exploring the six lives of women in ONE minority group.  While other reviewers have criticized Valdes-Rodriguez's inadequate or awkward treatment of the vast scope of the Latino-American experience (which includes too many cultures and regions to list here), I think she makes her point by failing to live up to expectations.  The matter is just too huge to be ever be comprehensive much less in a light, humorous novel.<br />A great beach read, a page-turner, and if you're open to some more depth, it can get you thinking, although you should probably look elsewhere for more info.	2003-07-21
US	48702608	R2GMB0DHD0L15F	0152046925	333672873	Calling on Dragons: The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book Three	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a Killer fantasy	The third book of the four Enchanted Forest Chronicles continues the clever stories of Cimorene, Mendanbar, and company. Each volume is sucessive, so reading them in order is a good idea. Morwen, the practical witch who brought all the characters together one way or another, is a major player this time (along with her equally sensible cats). This one takes place after the events involving a magic sword that controls King Mendanbar's Enchanted Forest. The sword has been stolen and the rescue team consists of Cimorene, Morwen, her cats, Telemain, Kazul, and Killer the rabbit-donkey.<br />The ladies are great role models of intelligence, reason, and strength. All of which they need when they encounter fire witches, hungry vines, and a whole lot of mud. Telemain and Killer provide the comic relief.<br />Again, Patricia Wrede is in fine form with her trademark sly humor and fairy tale jokes. The detail and plot are complete *and* completely fun. Many fantasy books get bogged down in their own importance. Wrede never takes it that seriously, all the while maintaining a high degree of authorial responsibility. This is particularly important in this book because it ends on a cliff hanger that gets resolved in the final book. Again, Wrede does not disappoint. Her books, which I first read in junior high, have been the perfect comfort reading to cheer me up and take me away to a world every bit as convincing as other great fantasies like Narnia, the Dark is Rising books, and Jane Yolen.	2003-07-03
US	48702608	R2KE6C9QXQP6ZU	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Readable	I'm one of those readers that finish things to the bitter end. It's telling that the first time I read The Edge of Reason, I chucked it. I was so disgusted with Bridget's psychotic ramblings on her thighs. As sweet and hilarious as she can be, it made me wonder just how stupid she could be. The first fifty pages of Edge of Reason answered that question far too well (really, can you fully love a character who doesn't know where Germany is?). While its longer length delighted me at first, once I began the book, I couldn't wait for the end of the year.<br />It's probably worth 3.5 stars and isn't a complete waste. I re-attempted the book a year later and didn't find Bridget's neuroses nearly so annoying, although some of the events Helen Fielding conjures up are so far from the realm of realism, that it didn't feel quite like I was getting to know Bridget. The diary format worked so well in the original, but the sequel lacks the narrative structure and insights of BJD (probably since Fielding borrowed so heavily (but creatively) from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice for the first Diary).  This one is modeled after Persuasion, also by Austen, but it's done in a haphazard, careless way that only begins to dawn on you in the middle of the novel.<br />What makes this one fun is a familiarity with the ever exasperatingly adorable Bridget, the deliciously befuddled Mark Darcy, and the usual cast of side characters - all tinged with British humor. It's better as a stand-alone because you can't help but be disappointed if you follow up the prequel with The Edge of Reason. Good beach or plane reading, but no need to run out to the store for this one.	2003-03-21
US	48702608	RJUAB8B8VQI4T	0064404773	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	5	1	1	N	N	the BEST beauty and the beast	Robin McKinley has a masterful way with words and in creating worlds believable and beautiful.  The descriptive details are perfectly delicious and her characterization is vibrant.  <Beauty> is one of her masterpieces.  The best of her works have heart-rending choices, a blend of intelligence and sympathy, and a heroine who must forge her own path in life.  I've read a great deal of young adult books and still do, as an adult, but I have found McKinley to have among the best female role models.<br />Honour, known as Beauty, is the third daughter of a wealthy widowed merchant.  Her father and lovely sisters, Grace and Hope, dote on their tomboy, scholarly youngest member.  Beauty spends her days translating Greek and riding her horse, Greatheart.  She isn't a looker, but her humor and accomplishments compensate for her self-perceived awkwardness.  A sudden change in fortune forces the family to abandon their city life for exile in the deep, mysterious north where they lead a rustic life.  The plot then follows the traditional tale of the father's journey back to town, Beauty's rose request, his fateful encounter, and Beauty's sacrifice.<br />The Beast's castle is remarkably described and imagined.  The magical elements are uniquely satisfying, such as wardrobes that furnish outfits on request, libraries with every book ever (past and future) written, and corridors that will lead you to your destination.  Beauty's narration of the story gives readers the sensation of viewing everything directly.  It's eye-candy you can read.  More importantly, the personalities of Beauty and the Beast are given center stage.  You see their unlikely friendship bud and develop, their intelligence and mutual appreciation for each other.  It's not a romance per se, but rather, a true love story.  It's all logical, fitting, and blossoming.  The setting is fantasical, but the characters ring true, no matter how minor.<br />McKinley takes great trouble setting scenes and letting them slowlyunfurl splendidly like, well, a rose.  You feel as though you are walking by Beauty's side through her adventure.  The book's first person voice also helps place you right in the center of the action as well offering insight from the independent, intelligent, inquisitive Beauty.  She isn't perfect - experiencing doubt, fear, guilt, and a poor sense of image throughout the novel - but she reaches past them as she evolves.  Although this is categorized as a children's book, the vocabulary and style set this apart for a more mature audience.  I have heard this was originally an adult book, and this is understandable.  There a maturity to the overall tone of the work that transcends the innocuous story.  Anyone at the recommended reading level will be able to enjoy the book, but the richness and depth of the author is something to be discovered even as an adult.  I find myself rereading this gem every few months - for comfort, for inspiration, for focus.  It really is that powerful.<br />Note: McKinley recently wrote another retelling of \\"Beauty and the Beast\\" called <Rose Daughter,> but while readable, it's pretty spotty and nowhere as brilliant as <Beauty.>	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R3D5VPPSN4ZWJW	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A New Classic: Cinderella with a twist	A lifelong fairy tale fan, I thought I knew what to expect when I picked up Ella Enchanted, but even I was often startled over how Gail Carson Levine manages to make this story stand on its own, while also incorporating the traditional details with logical circumstances (for a fantasy).  You forget that the old story elements - like the pumpkin, the glass slipper, and the fairy godmother - until you are actually reading about them and remember that you already knew that they were coming up.  She takes the less attractive or believable aspects of the age-old tale and turns them gently and sensibly on their heads.  I particularly admired Ella's rebelliousness against her forced obedience, and how she and her Prince fall in love corresponding in intelligent, involved letters.<br />If you ever wondered why Cinderella put up with all the abuse her stepmother and stepsisters heaped on her, this is the book to satisfy your curiosity.  A wacky fairy gives her the \\"gift\\" of obedience and Ella is forced to follow every imperative addressed to her.  She learns quite a bit about the preciousness of free will and how to maintain her own independence.  As soon as she is able, she begins a search to reverse her situation.  This is no sitting-pretty damsel-in-distress.  On her adventure, she encounters elves, ogres, giants, and her Prince.<br />Levine creates a marvelous fantasy world that shows how priceless choice is.  Appreciation for life's simple pleasures takes center stage here.  In most fairy tales, it's more convenient to overlook weaknesses in heroes/heroines because we know the story will stop being a fairy tale if we question it.  Ella Enchanted confronts the all-important \\"why\\"s of the story and is still a pure pleasure to read.  This book's got it all - Ella is a spirited, charismatic character, the descriptive elements are crisp, the situations are clever and often very funny, and the romance isn't contrived at all (a true coup in re-telling fairy tales).  I finishedreading it and immediately wanted to begin again on page one.  That's a rare feeling and this is a rare book - make sure you read this one and pass it on!	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R2AO2R9DICZCIV	0441328091	178447398	The Hero and the Crown	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Dragon's Bane	The first part of a two-part historical fantasy, The Hero and the Crown won Robin McKinley a well-deserved Newbery Award.  The land of Damar will captivate you and linger with you long after you close the book.  McKinley's writing and style are exceptional.  Let's face it, authors do not write like this anymore - even she doesn't anymore.  All the more reason to treasure these intoxicating worlds of words.<br />The titular Hero is actually a heroine, Aerin, an shunned princess of Damar.  From the beginning, life is not good for Aerin and sets the dark mood of the novel.  She's the only royal who is not magical - a very strange occurrence for a Damarian.  Additionally, her late mother's dubious reputation has cast a shadow on the daughter.  Her only allies are Tor, a cousin, and her maimed horse, Talat.<br />A dragon is tormenting Damarians and Aerin sets out to prove her worth to her people.  Her preparations, struggles, and failures are heart-breaking.  McKinley's superior descriptive skills are very much in evidence throughout the book.  From the moment you begin reading, her words cast a spell, drawing readers into her world like a vortex.  It's so easy to empathize with Aerin as she fights every step of the way to finding herself.<br />This journey leads her to a mage, Luthe, and further battles.  There is a sense of constant action, when in fact there are not many actual combats.  Aerin's search for purpose, identity is so strong every sentence carried the weight of a sword-clashing charge.  The final course of the plot and characters weren't quite to my liking as a romantic teen when I first read Hero, but the inevitability and *rightness* of it comes with a realistic sense of bittersweetness and maturity.  I hesitated to write this review at all because I was (and am) afraid I may dissuade a reader from trying this excellent author, but I believe other reviews speak just as strongly in its favor as this one is attempting to.<br />The more I consider Robin McKinley, the more I believe she isn't so much a young adult author as simply an adult one.  Her text and content are fit for an adolescent age bracket, but to get the most of her best work, a great deal more maturity is helpful.  I'm still learning from these \\"kid's\\" books well into my twenties.  These are the kind of books that grow up with you and continue to enlighten, comfort, and push you.  Another favorite is the sequel, The Blue Sword.	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R3U0PS8I6P99R6	0140371516	541266042	The Prince of the Pond: Otherwise Known as De Fawg Pin	Books	5	5	6	N	N	It's hard to be green...	The Prince of the Pond: Otherwise Known As De Fawg Pin is a sweet, hilarious story for the young and the young-at-heart.  I'm one of the latter, as I was almost hysterical with the giggles at the very silliness of a lisping frog.  Although I do not care for amphibians at all, I found the illustrations excellent and learned a thing or two since they also have a slightly biology-lesson feel.  The story also provided facts about frogs that will interest children.<br />The story is narrated by a female frog who befriends our hapless hero, Pin.  The basic tale of The Frog Prince is maintained, but only as shell.  The real story revolves around Pin's adaptation to his new world and the compromises of his human and frog selves.<br />Donna Jo Napoli did a wonderful job of creating just the right mood for each scene - light and carefree when the frogs are playing, a little menacing when the mean old bullfrog comes, and particularly sweet when Pin is determined to save all his hundreds of tadpole children.  A bit of the fantastic, the scientific, and the winsome.  Also charming is the sequel, Jimmy, the Pickpocket of the Palace.	2003-03-12
US	48702608	RPJ0LM36HV4I6	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of my all-time favorites!	An intoxicating world is summoned by Robin McKinley's evocative writing.  The Blue Sword concludes the historical fantasy of Damar.  This story takes place a few centuries after Aerin and her adventures in The Hero and the Crown, but the same spirit haunts its sequel.  Our heroine extraordinaire is Harry, an ordinary, bored orphan living Daria with a military officer and his family.  A political meeting with the rogue king of the Hills leads to Harry's reluctant kidnapping.<br />King Corlath, whose sixth sense, called kelar, tells him his people need Harry.  So he trains her as a warrior as the Damarians/Darians prepare for war.  Harry's loyalties are tested as she grows and flourishes in her new role as Harimad-sol and find she cannot follow Corlath.  Her choice carries massive repercussions for both her people and Corlath's people, who she has come to honor.<br />This is an amazing story that layers itself into a breath-taking trip of empowerment and adventure.  One of my all-time favorite fantasies, I return to this book for it's comforting, entertaining qualities.  Its prequel is much more intense and heavy with realism.  Critically, The Hero and the Crown is the superior, but the feel-good and fairy tale aura of The Blue Sword is much more accessible than the rich, but mature world of Aerin.	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R10MHKJKXM987R	0440431808	646438686	From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler (Yearling Newbery)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	from a lifelong museum lover - it all started here!	One of the most entertaining children's books ever!  This ranks right up there with The Westing Game for superb description, imagination, and characters.  Claudia and Jamie Kincaid run away from home, but clever Claudia isn't settling for any less than the best.  She decided the Metropolitan Museum of Art will do, with its antique beds fit for queens, a cafeteria for their meals, and school tours to pass the days.  So, with their instrument cases full of spare underwear and Jamie's savings, the two siblings set off.  While dodging museum guards, raising funds, and admiring artwork at their leisure after hours, the two stumble upon a mysterious sculpture which may have been created by Michelangelo.  A reclusive Mrs. Basil Frankweiler holds the secret, but will she tell?<br />When I read this back in grade school, I loved the thrilling idea of running away (what kid didn't), preferably somewhere as exotic as the Met.  The Kincaid kids are organized and sensible, and it was a pleasure to see a runaway elegantly done.  They think of everything.  Of course, their method is out of the realm of possibility, but the creativity they show is pure reading fun.<br />The author wrote the children as complex personalities with layers of wisdom, innocence, and intelligence.  The story is slightly dated only in things like the price of admission or stamps - in spirit, it's timeless.  It's got everything: a treasure hunt, a mystery, suspense, ingenuity, and the coolest brother and sister team you will find in children's lit.	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R12GANMJA7SFHI	0140374493	112313982	An Old-Fashioned Girl (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A plummy story	Louisa May Alcott is a trustworthy author - you know what you're getting.  Although I hadn't read An Old-Fashioned Girl, I gave my sister a copy, thinking it would be a nice way to get her to continue reading.  Not only did it get her reading, she got me so into it, I was waiting to read it for myself.  Alcott is a good writer with some great books that have beautifully stood the test of time - this is one of them.<br />Polly Milton is a country girl visiting friends in the big city.  Her quaintness charms the Shaws, especially the adults.  As much as the Shaw children also love Polly, they think she is unfashionable and even embarrassing.  They are shamed by her unaffected wholesomeness and act as children do, by being unkind and unjust.  Polly's innocence and pride are bruised by the careless Fanny, spoiled Maud, and gruff Tom.  Her modest ways are tested by the temptations of living with the wealthy Shaws, but her sensitivity to this only supports her personal credo to be as good as possible.<br />Polly is old-fashioned even by Victorian standards, but her honesty and cheerfulness are contagious.  Even as a pragmatic adult, every time I read her story I feel a surge of inspiration and affirmation that it's still worth being good.  Her charismatic personality will both beguile and challenge you.  A moral, but not moralistic character, Polly leads by example by having fun, (eventually) blooming in the face of adversity, and always being true to herself.  Polly's gentleness is layered around a steely core.  She doesn't aim to convert you, but won't let others convince her to do what she feels is wrong, as Fanny and her trendy group find out.  This is the sort of girl every parent wishes for, every girl needs for a friend, and every guy is looking for.<br />\\"Good\\" heroines usually ring false and are burdensome to the reader.  Alcott creates a real girl, who happens to be extremely loving.  Polly embraces the world with wise, but accepting arms.  She's magnetically sincere, drawing out the best in others.  It's hard not to be affected.  The Shaws and their friends become interesting and layered characters due to her quiet influence.  I didn't like the children intially, but as they became increasingly complex and conflicted, I found them nearly as dear as Polly.  There isn't much of a plot per se, but small episodes tied together over the course of a few years, often very funny in the end.  The last part in particular will be a surprise - even this experienced reader didn't see it coming!<br />Read this and feel Polly's (er, Alcott's) magic for yourself!  A real treasure you'll want to pass on.  It will only get better with age.  A few books are part of a journey of a lifetime and I've found that An Old-Fashioned Girl is one of them.	2003-03-12
US	48702608	R1DG07JWGV334M	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	4	0	0	N	N	be fourteen again! sweet, witty, unique, wildly fantastic	High school freshman Mia Thermopolis is given a journal to release her \\"inner rage\\" and be self-assertive. Mia, like any other teen, wishes to attain self-actualization - oh, and go out with the hottest guy in school (or at least get asked out once), have bigger breasts, a passing grade in Algebra, and that her 25-pound cat wouldn't eat socks. She's pretty well-adjusted, though, living in Greenwich Village with her artist mother, summering with her European dad, making public access TV shows with her best friend Lilly, Algebra tutoring with Michael, Lilly's brother, watching movies of the week, and trying to save the environment. All peachy until her father comes to NYC to tell her she must be his heir to the throne of Genovia, a tiny country in Europe.<br />To which Mia says, \\"Thanks. Thanks a *whole* lot,\\" because being a princess isn't all it's cracked up to be. Her scary Grandmere comes to give her daily princess lessons, she has to have a Glock-carrying bodyguard with her at all times, and worst of all, she can't tell anyone because she's already a 5-foot-9, chestless freak with yield-sign-shaped hair at Albert Einstein High whose mother is dating her Algebra teacher. Even though Mia tries to keep the embarrassing princess thing secret, the stress of it all leads to a fight with Lilly, an ice cream stabbing, and a visit to the principal's office. Then her story gets leaked to a major newspaper! Now, who would ask a girl like that to the Cultural Diversity Dance????? Mia thinks her life is over. O-V-E-R.<br />It's been a while since I was fourteen, but this book took me right back. I guess in a few years this book will become dated like the Judy Blumes of my generation, but it's endearing and funny, especially for all the kids who weren't jocks or drunks or brains. Of course, I'd venture to say *none* of us will find out we are royal princesses, but Mia's traumas and dramas are very relatable. Adolescence is all about identity crises, and hers is a big one. Can she be Her Royal Highness Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo and still be future-Greenpeace-representative Mia Thermopolis? Despite the strong empathy I felt for Mia, she isn't perfect. I liked Mia, but I didn't admire her (why does she have to be stereotypically flunking math). Lilly is much more interesting in that respect. Still, Mia is a good kid. She's modest, cute, and conscientious and her voice is thoroughly entertaining. A strong beginning for a lovely series, Meg Cabot's style will capture many young-at-hearts.<br />Note: the movie took many liberties with the story, so be warned - this is the real thing and much, much more original.she be Her Royal Highness Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo and still be future-Greenpeace-representative Mia Thermopolis? Despite the strong empathy I felt for Mia, she isn't perfect. I liked Mia, but I didn't admire her (why does she have to be stereotypically flunking math). Lilly is much more interesting in that respect. Still, Mia is a good kid. She's modest, cute, and conscientious and her voice is thoroughly entertaining. A strong beginning for a lovely series, Meg Cabot's style will capture many young-at-hearts.<br />Note: the movie took many liberties with the story, so be warned - this is the real thing and much, much more original.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R3A3BE9MRIZW85	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A romance dedicated to readers and writers	This is my first Julia Quinn and my first romance novel.  If there are more like this one, I'll keep reading - and buying!  Romancing Mr. Bridgerton was witty and sweet and sexy while having a sound plot with a great deal of internal conflict that really brought the main characters to life.  I guess not having read the previous three books, I can't really compare it as other reviewers have done, but I can assure you that as a stand-along novel it is definitely enjoyable.<br />Penelope Featherington isn't beautiful, popular, titled, or rich.  She has been unsuccessfully on the Marriage Mart for over a decade and has been shelved as a spinster, really only going to balls to chaperon her younger sister.  Her dominating mother does not do much to bolster Penelope's self-esteem and a lifetime of maternal companionship awaits her.  Penelope has good company as a wallflower, though.  Her best friend, Eloise Bridgerton is also single.  Although, Eloise has actually turned down offers, while Penelope simply hasn't had any.  For almost as long as they have been friends (since their debuts), Penelope has been (secretly) in love with Eloise's older brother Colin.  Colin still isn't married and has recently returned from a long trip abroad.<br />He returns to find everything the same, exactly the same, which only feeds his wanderlust again.  He is discontent with his position in English society, but isn't strong enough to give it up, and so he leaves to find purpose in his idle existence.  Meanwhile, during his tenure in London, he has to put up with the social doings of the ton and the frequent mention of his name in the thrice-weekly gossip rag, \\"Lady Whistledown's Society Papers.\\"  The only thing making it bearable is, surprisingly, Penelope Featherington's sane, pleasant conversation, especially after she finds out his hidden ambition and encourages him in it.<br />A challenge is issued from the prickly, but honest Lady Danbury: a thousand pounds to the person who reveals the true Lady Whistledown.  She also takes an added interest in Penelope, recognizing her intelligence and drawing her out to receive some deserved attention.  Penelope slowly grows out of her forced shyness to blossom before Colin and the rest of the ton.<br />Of course, Colin is smitten, but he is plagued with doubts.  Penelope also does not just fall at her hero's feet, especially since he hasn't done anything particularly heroic.  I enjoyed their conversations, their individual personalities, and the cozy interiorness of their thoughts and struggles.  It created amazing empathy (with Penelope in particular) and wasn't overblown or dramatic or chaotic to create something out of nothing.  Quinn synthesizes a sensible, likeable heroine with an intelligent, honest partner within a relationship that will develop each partner in their chosen separate paths.  <br />I also loved the Bridgerton clan - they are such a *nice* family (admittedly, with superior verbal skills).  Having looked through other novels subsequently, I was surprised how unpleasant many people and events are.  Quinn has a light touch, without stepping into the realms of complete comedy or biting satire.  She handles the funny and the intense with a sure hand.  Romancing Mr. Bridgerton was a delight to read and I'm only sorry I finished it too quickly.  I can't wait to find out about the other Bridgertons!	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R2BAOJ0FMBYEUM	0060096195	825975444	The Boy Next Door	Books	4	3	4	N	N	great beach reading	Meg Cabot (of The Princess Diaries fame) delivers another boy-meets-girl story with her trademark light touch, peopled with an earnest neighbor from the Midwest, her sassy best friend, a celebrity photog, a supermodel, a Park Avenue family, and a troupe of wacky second-rate journalists, and a Great Dane.<br />This book is entirely in first-person due to the use of emails instead of diary entries.  Surprisingly, it works.  It's thoroughly enjoyable, a fast read, and something you can pick up again for a few laughs.  Mel Fuller, our sweet and principled heroine, gets caught up in a New York moment when she discovers her 80-year-old, multimillionaire neighbor conked on the head.  Assuming responsibilities for the woman's three pets, including Paco, the Great Dane, Mel's search for the next-of-kin leads her to Max Frielander, who may or may not be the biggest playboy of the Western hemisphere, but who charms Mel off her normally steady feet.<br />Enter John Trent, Max's college rommmate and a rival journalist.  Emails fly between Mel and her best friend (and colleague) Nadine, John and his brother and sister-in-law, John and Max, the Human Resources Department and Mel (who is late more often than not), and of course, Mel and the Boy Next Door.<br />The email format works pretty well.  It tells you enough while leaving details to your imagination.  After all, isn't that what all good stories do?  Being pretty attached to email myself, I found the email detail and frequency very believable.  My only problem with the format was the presence of the author.  Each of the characters wrote in slightly different styles, but you could definitely feel a common voice behind them.  It made looking at the \\"To/From\\" necessary.  Still, the characters themselves were very distinct ?it was just preferable when another character wrote about events, rather than the actual people involved.<br />The plot is slightly screwball, but adorable.  If you liked The Princess Diaries (the book, not movie) or comedic romances (a la chick lit like Bridget Jones), this will hit the spot and leave you smiling.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	RRSKB6Q1Q2XKK	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Not a pleasure, but definitely worth it	This is the first Nick Hornby book I've read.  While I felt it compelling enough to pick up every night until I finished, I'm not running out to find another.  There are books that provoke one or two emotions, usually satisfaction and/or a bubble of optimism.  This isn't one of those feel-good novels that reassure you and your place in the world.  Those, you can shut and be done with, no need to go back because there isn't a need to mine for more meaning.  How to Be Good is deeper than that.  It doesn't shock you or rock your world with new knowledge, but it infiltrates your foundations and gives them a nice big shove.<br />Most of us like to think we're \\"good.\\"  We pay taxes, recycle, do not condone prejudices, take an interest in critically-praised works, believe in globalized humanitarianism, quietly put up with annoyances.  We feel sorry for the poor, hungry, homeless, aspire to the Peace Corps or Habitat for Humanity, maybe even take part in organized religion.  Okay, so does Katie Carr.  She's a doctor after all - of course, SHE's good.  Somehow in her complacent way of thinking, being a doctor and taking part in the abovementioned activities, automatically makes her a good person, no questions asked.  It's just so *obvious,* right?<br />No, not quite.  That's where Hornby makes his point: is that all that it takes to be good?  No, IT'S NOT ENOUGH, and what's more, it's pathetic to use the above criteria.  Being good is surprisingly unpleasant and entails serious sacrifice.  Katie is married to David, a pathologically angry man, whose rotten attitude would make the most jaded of us blanch in dismay.  She's nearly a saint for somehow living with him for over two decades, but Katie is having a cheap affair.  So much for her canonization (imagine, a doctor and a long-suffering wife - she had it made).  Then David meets GoodNews, a strange young man with healing hands.  Gone is his chronic back pain and his meanness, just when Katie is feeling justified for her misbehavior.<br />David is dissonantly gentle, understanding, generous.  He goes on a crusade to do his part to save the world.  GoodNews moves in and they embark on a semi-spiritual journey to correct society's ills.  They persuade neighbors to take in homeless kids, make the Carr kids befriend social outcasts, and give away everything from prized possessions to their carfare home.  Katie resists every step of the way, futilely.  Taking the reader with her, she struggles with reality and the aspirations of social responsibility, charity, autonomy, altruism, and hope.  The more she lives with David, the less she feels she has any of these things.  Her marriage and family also unravel as she questions her understanding of goodness because certainly David's actions are examples of true goodness making Katie (and probably most readers) feel like a sham.<br />The deeper you get into the book, the more you begin to feel increasingly battered and enervated as Katie.  David is - if possible - too good.  Katie goes on desperate searches to regain her balance, her complacency, an assurance that *her* perceptions are right and David is just over-the-top.  She attempts church, moving out, even threatening a minister unless she gives Katie a straight answer.  In all of Katie's efforts, Hornby casts a satiric light on them, portraying them as ridiculous and vain.  Honestly, it was hard not to feel as nothing was good enough, short of David and GoodNews' methods.<br />I didn't really find it as funny or witty as others have, but it was a pleasant, smooth read.  Very readable and marked by graceful storytelling.  I didn't like Katie or David or any of the characters much, but they were believable - sometimes painfully so.  Hornby did an excellent job of writing in a woman's voice.  I couldn't sympathize with Katie, but I could empathize with her.  Hornby is definitely a writer I'll be considering in the future - reading him is deceptively easy, but what he's got to say lingers for quite a while afterwards, as you lie on the ground after the rug is swept out from under you.  That doesn't sound terribly positive, but sometimes you have to look at things from a startling and unusual perspective.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	RBIKKFLOWTVIY	0152046917	536847715	Talking to Dragons: The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book Four	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Always be polite, especially to dragons, witches, and hedges	The conclusion to the enchanting Enchanted Forest Chronicles is a slight departure from the previous three books.  Cimorene isn't the heroine so much as her son is the hero.  Daystar is unceremoniously sent off on a quest by his no-nonsense mum.  Apparently, he has to take an old sword and his good manners to save the father he never met.  A change of pace to be reading a first-hand account (Daystar's) and from such a young perspective, this one is just as entertaining as the prequels.<br />Daystar stumbles upon some interesting characters in the Forest, beginning with the sharp, wise Suz.  Soon, he is keeping company with a surprisingly cunning princess, a baby dragon, and a rude fire witch.  The group is not at all like the older, assured adults we met in the other books, but it's just as charming to get to know these young 'uns as they grow up together during their Great Adventure.<br />Patricia Wrede has written a strong finish to her utterly lovable series.  The perfect blend of action, description, humor, and intelligence have made this one of my favorite fantasy series.  Revisiting the Enchanted Forest is pure fun even years later.  Look for her other books as well.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R16TS1T0SQNFT2	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Perfect Winter Reading	Meg Cabot returns readers to the wonderfully hilarious world of Mia Thermopolis, Albert Einstein High freshman and, oh yeah, Crown Princess of Genovia. Following the narrative in the two previous Princess Diaries, Book 3 takes place in December. Mia finally has her long-awaited boyfriend, but he isn't her prince.<br />That would be her lifelong, unattainable crush, who, in the meantime, appears to have found a girlfriend, a brain who can probably do the algebra Mia can't. But Mia is WAY too busy to deal with that just now. She's prepping for her formal introduction to the Genovians on Christmas Eve - and dealing with her finals. More Mia misadventures ensue, such as:<br />- finding \\"meaningful\\" holiday gifts<br />- finding a way to break up nicely<br />- avoiding a disaster-waiting-to-happen political protest<br />- suspecting her fashion-designer cousin of wanting to usurp the throne<br />- find a date to the Nondenominational Winter Dance and<br />- find out who her Secret Snowflake is.<br />She actually looking forward to getting away to Genovia. Even with her jam-packed royal schedule, THAT is starting to look like a vacation compared to her life in Manhattan.<br />This third book is as sweet as the first one and a nice recovery from the strange, chaotic second volume. This one returns to more solid ground by focusing on Mia and her choices. The whole princess thing is fantastical, but her adolescent crises and dramas sound all too familiar.  They resonate with a ring of truth that all girls will understand on some level.  That's what makes these books worth at least a look.  Mia's voice is excellently presented in these adorable diaries that will have you finishing them in one sitting, but will have you returning to be refreshed whenever you need a little pick-me-up. Looking forward to the fourth book!	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R18H7WQ59QQ9E9	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	bridging two great reads	This sequel to The Princess Diaries takes the next month of high school freshman Mia Thermopolis' life. October has Mia getting used to the daily princess lessons and constant publicity and bodyguards. Life is just getting bearable when her mother announces that she's pregnant¡¦with Mia's Algebra teacher's baby! Why, God, why?<br />Meanwhile, Mia's grandmother sets up a high profile TV interview that goes hopelessly awry. Mia is dealing with her embarrassment and the fallout at school when a secret admirer appears. Could it be the senior who Mia has crushed on forever? But Mia can't concentrate on that right now. Grandmere is on her case again, while her mother is in the throes of morning sickness, and her father is dating her interviewer. Why, God, why?<br />The book's strange adventures are redeemed by Mia's growing maturation and Meg Cabot's humor and memorable characters. It was very enjoyable and hilarious read in succession to the first volume, although it disappointed a bit on its own. Cabot seems to have been a little distracted from her main point, which is Mia. The wacky events in this sequel overshadow her at times and are far removed from those elements of realism that make these books a lovely visit down adolescent memory lane. A decent, entrertaining read, but recommended you read the first and third as well, in order. 2.5 stars	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R8HUSX12Y9HYS	0152046925	333672873	Calling on Dragons: The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book Three	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a Killer fantasy	The third book of the four Enchanted Forest Chronicles continues the clever stories of Cimorene, Mendanbar, and company.  Each volume is sucessive, so reading them in order is a good idea.  Morwen, the practical witch who brought all the characters together one way or another, is a major player this time (along with her equally sensible cats).  This one takes place after the events involving a magic sword that controls King Mendanbar's Enchanted Forest.  The sword has been stolen and the rescue team consists of Cimorene, Morwen, her cats, Telemain, Kazul, and Killer the rabbit-donkey.<br />The ladies are great role models of intelligence, reason, and strength.  All of which they need when they encounter fire witches, hungry vines, and a whole lot of mud.  Telemain and Killer provide the comic relief.<br />Again, Patricia Wrede is in fine form with her trademark sly humor and fairy tale jokes.  The detail and plot are complete *and* completely fun.  Many fantasy books get bogged down in their own importance.  Wrede never takes it that seriously, all the while maintaining a high degree of authorial responsibility.  This is particularly important in this book because it ends on a cliff hanger that gets resolved in the final book.  Again, Wrede does not disappoint.  Her books, which I first read in junior high, have been the perfect comfort reading to cheer me up and take me away to a world every bit as convincing as other great fantasies like Narnia, the Dark is Rising books, and Jane Yolen.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R1SI81WE0HT54W	0152045651	432195823	Searching for Dragons: The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book Two	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Off to the Rescue!	After meeting the irrepressible Cimorene, Chief Cook and Librarian to Kazul and formerly Princess of Linderwall, in Book One (Dealing with Dragons) of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles, you can't help wanting to get to the rest of the quartet.  The second volume begins with two problems.  King Mendanbar of the Enchanted Forest notices his kingdom is being scorched away, apparently by a dragon.  Going to consult the King of the Dragons, he meets Cimorene preparing to set out on a search for Kazul, who is missing.  They decide they must join forces, even though Mendanbar is as phobic of princesses as Cimorene is of princes.  On their journey they meet the coolest witch ever, a tech-geek magician, a bucking magic carpet, a leaky sword, a giant with a career crisis, Herman (formerly-known-as-Rumplestiltskin), and of course, wizards.<br />Patricia Wrede has written another tongue-in-cheek story incorporating familiar fairy tales with a clever twist.  Her humor and details are dead-on as usual as expected by this thorough and thoroughly enjoyable author.  You want to keep the next two books, Calling on Dragons and Talking to Dragons close at hand.  I don't have any more to say because you can only do justice to these wonderful books by reading them - again and again!	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R34LQ4CWNV5UIR	014018869X	651296590	Cold Comfort Farm (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brilliantly hilarious classic - a must for Austen lovers!	Newly-orphaned Flora Poste decides that the hundred pounds per annum left to her by her parents will simply not do.  Disregarding her friend Mrs. Smiling's advice that she find employment, Flora seeks out her only relatives to support her.  Choosing the Starkadders of Cold Comfort Farm in Howling, Sussex, Flora sets about making life comfortable and orderly for her bizarre cousins.<br />Setting the action slightly in the future, Stella Gibbons creates a hilariously surreal world pulled straight from Gothic-style novels of the early 1900's where descriptions of the country were prolix, decadent, and elaborate (she precedes those sections with ***).  The dark and melodramatic and stereotypical are given much the same treatment Jane Austen gave the original Gothic novels in Northanger Abbey.  In general, Gibbons seems to model herself after Austen just as Flora models herself after her favorite books.  Flora is reminiscent of Emma Woodhouse (of Austen's Emma), trying to make everyone's life more perfect.  Except in Flora's case, it works beautifully.<br />Flora is a cheeky, but dignified character - everything she predicts happens exactly as she says, no matter how wildly preposterous the situation may be.  As she begins to straighten out the chaos of Cold Comfort by allowing each member fulfill their dreams - of course, only in proper channels and as neatly as possible - she in effect takes over the family.  The last obstacle is Aunt Ada Doom, a woman every inch as formidable as, well, Flora herself.<br />Each of the thoroughly memorable characters are totally unique - I dare you to find any more eccentric and still lovable - with Dickensian names, but not the baggage.  This is a book that didn't make me smile or chuckle, but positively laugh with glee.  It's clever, witty, sly, and extremely satisfying.	2003-03-03
US	48702608	R3VJ24QN8AYQOG	0226467627	802681949	The Ghosts of Berlin: Confronting German History in the Urban Landscape	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Forget the guide books!  Take this instead!	This book was on the short list of texts my German language/culture study abroad course required.  As far as the architectural culture went, this book was all you needed to taste the essence of the capital.  It was better than any guide book out there, especially relating the tulmultuous past with what you were seeing with your own eyes as an urban landscape.<br />Berlin is complex, historically and culturally - from its imperialist days to Hitler's capital to the scarred divided city just now seaming together.  Germany is the embodiment of ambiguity - which is made abundantly evident by its very structures throughout the wide city.  Brian Ladd's photography is unobtrusive and tasteful, illustrating his thoroughly researched work.  He compares an old photograph to one taken recently by him to study, at one point, how unchanged some parts of the city have been in the midst of constant upheaval in the last century.<br />It is remarkable how entertaining the book is, as well as its vitality in its examination of Berlin.  It was, quite simply, such a pleasure to read.  The Ghosts of Berlin takes in the large picture, of a country uniting, political ideologies - past and present, and the significance of massive structures - standing and ruined.  It also encompasses details in exquisite ordinariness, like street corners, department stores, and public transportation.  All this is told in an appealing style that is accessible (so you don't need any background in Germany or Berlin), but not overly casual (Ladd is informed and comprehensive).	2003-01-16
US	48702608	R11FM45E6CBILD	0590457225	504604393	Dealing With Dragons (Enchanted Forest Chronicles)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Knights: No Rescues - please!	Cimorene isn't your everyday fairytale princess and Dealing with Dragons isn't your everyday fairytale, although you will recognize many allusions to them.  Patricia Wrede tweaks the old-fashioned, well-known stories without getting embroiled in a politically correct mood-killer.  The traditional characters retain their charm beginning with this first book of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles.  With her trademark light touch, Wrede creates a charming world with wizards and dragons and knights, giving you details to make your imagination take flight.<br />And the places she takes your imagination!  It all begins with a talking frog and an exasperated princess of Linderwall.  Ever practical, Cimorene, plans her escape and decides she will be a dragon's princess.  Adopted by Kazul as her Chief Cook and Librarian, Cimorene starts a whole new life filled with cherries jubilee, Latin, fire-proofing spells, challenging would-be rescuers, and intrigues for the dragon throne.<br />Cimorene is joined by other delicious characters, like the cool witch Morwen, allergy-prone Roxim, fellow dragon princess Alianora, and the pretentious Society of Wizards.  The action is fast-paced and exciting, but what really makes these Chronicles memorable is Wrede's witty, smooth humor.  She slips in tongue-in-cheek references to conventional fairy tales everywhere, from chapter headings to bit characters without drawing unnecessary attention to it.  The plot also doesn't leave things unexplained.  Wrede is a tight writer, accounting for all her details in the end.  Dealing with Dragons is thoroughly satisfying, completely engrossing, and totally fun, as are the sequels.  A must read, at any age, especially if you like whimsical fantasy with a touch of humor and a dose of common sense!	2003-01-16
US	48702608	R3FQMILJ47OYXH	0425188175	127717221	Up a Road Slowly	Books	5	37	38	N	N	a book for every girl you know	If you were ever a child, ever an adolescent, you will understand Julie.  I saw a lot of myself in her when I read this as a middle school dreamer.  Irene Hunt's coming-of-age novel is a remarkably moving work - and therefore, timeless.<br />Little Julie Trelling and her older brother Chris are left to live with their firm, but kind Aunt Cordelia when her father is widowed.  Bright, sensitive, and a bit of a rebel, Julie faces the tough challenges of growing up smart and female.  During her childhood, Julie learns bittersweet lessons in heartbreak and compassion and justice and love as only as children do.  As idyllic as her country life seems, there is prejudice, meanness, and smallness of human spirit in all corners of the world.  Hunt emphasizes her point by making the time and place settings vague.  We could all be a Julie living in a no-name town.<br />As Julie grows up from a young child of seven to seventeen, she tells her story in a voice both immediate and honest.  So you feel her triumphs, spirit, wrongs, and experiences in \\"real time.\\"  Hunt creates a vibrantly alive character who draws you in with her compelling point of view.  While this is primarily Julie's story, you meet the formidable Aunt Cordelia, whose own life could have been Julie's life.  Both women are strong, admirable portrayals, making this an excellent book for girls.  Other memorable characters are Alicia, Danny, Carlotta, and Aggie.<br />The book isn't all lessons and wisdom.  It's mostly evocative and reflective, stringing together significant moments in growing up with precise detail of everyday things (like windowsills and bowls of berries), rather than being action-packed or plot-driven.  Hunt tell us that growing up isn't simple, but you're also never alone even when you want to be, as even enemies and bad experiences shape us as much as the loved ones and good times do.  Up a Road Slowly is written poignantly and intimately.  Every girl deserves to read this and I can't tell you how pleased I am that it is being reprinted.  I'm going to buy up quite a few copies for friends and family.	2003-01-16
US	48702608	R3HQN7M4K8T8W5	0553280511	804782425	The Blue Castle	Books	5	86	88	N	N	Carpe diem	The Blue Castle is a perfect example of marketing gone very, VERY wrong.  Those silly publishers who gave this wonderful book such a tawdry cover and shallow synopsis have done L. M. Montgomery and Valancy Stirling a huge disservice.  This isn't a conventional romance, but an inspiring story of a woman who takes control of her life and discovers a beautiful world living her dream, her Blue Castle.  The positive reviews may sound a little over-enthusiastic, but women and girls have reaffirmed this book as an all-time favorite time and time again.  Everyone I know who has read this wishes they had gotten to it sooner and/or laments its undeserved obscurity.  My sister and I fight over our copy, stupid cover and all, since we both feel compelled to read it a few times a year.<br />Here's why: Valancy Stirling is an Everywoman - all of us can relate to her helplessness and apathy, her joys and triumphs.  In Valancy's case, her intimidating, suffocating family and poverty have instilled fear from a young age, when she was an insignificant little girl.  After a lifetime of negative comments, she finds herself a hopeless, though respectable, old maid at the age of 29, unloved and unwanted even by her own mother.  Then Dr. Trent tells her she has a terminal heart condition, and Valancy throws all caution to the winds, deciding to really *live* for her last few months.<br />Her repressed personality and spirit finally express themselves, often humorously and cheekily.  She says what's on her mind, sees her relatives as the sillies they are, and very importantly, refuses to wear her hated red flannel petticoat.  You will feel deliciously refreshed as Valancy lives on her own terms for once.  The characters are well drawn with Montgomery's typically detailed hand, giving life to each of the distinctive citizens of Deerwood, from hilarious Roaring Abel to sweet Cissy to the fearsome Rev. Stalling, as well as many members of the upright, uptight Stirling clan.  Also as importantas the people is the marvelous Muskoka \\"outback,\\" with its evocative descriptions in the John Foster books Valancy devours, and the lovely little island of Mistawis and its natural wonders.<br />Most readers will agree that The Blue Castle is an adult book.  Considering L. M. Montgomery wrote *all* her books for an adult audience, this isn't strange.  What makes this one more so isn't content so much as appreciation.  Any adolescent will enjoy the book, but it takes those years after being a teen to truly empathize with Valancy's story.  The Blue Castle is about disappointment and renewal, bitterness and second chances, rarely in the realm of an age of \\"firsts;\\" which is why this one markedly lacks the preciousness that is often found (appropriately) in the \\"younger\\" books like The Story Girl, the Anne of Green Gables, and the Emily of New Moon books.  Give this book a try - you won't regret it.  This is one to share and pass on.	2003-01-16
US	48702608	RE332UYL6K6Z0	0742662756	818419685	Dear Enemy (The Best Sellers of 1916 Series)	Books	4	70	71	N	N	Minty fresh childhood favorite	Jean Webster is best known for the classic Daddy Long-Legs.  While it is certainly a worthy little novel, I have always preferred Dear Enemy, its lesser-known sequel.  Daddy Long-Legs is vanilla, sweet and smooth.  Dear Enemy is more like mint chocolate chip, refreshing with nuggets of warmth, laughter, bittersweetness.  You will be enchanted by the fiery-haired Sallie McBride and her orphans.<br />Sallie has been asked by her college buddy, the Judy Abbott of Daddy Long-Legs, to run the John Grier Home, the orphanage Judy was raised in.  A cheerful and unabashed socialite waiting for her Congressman boyfriend to propose, Sallie takes on the job on a temporary basis.  Armed with her sense of humor and her firm brightness, along with her maid and her Chow doggie, she gets her heart stolen by the 100 sad-eyed charges.  <br />The book is modeled after Daddy Long-Legs, so it is entirely composed of Sallie's stick-figure-illustrated letters to Judy, Gordon (the boyfriend), and the Home's prickly visiting doctor, whose letters are soon addressed \\"Dear Enemy.\\" Her letters catalogue her daily adventures with the sweet, colorful kids, a series of cooks and farmers, sexist trustees, and grumpy neighbors.  In all of this, there sparkles a strong feminine spirit, blithe optimism, and clear-headed compassion.  The letters read so naturally and sure, Sallie's charm radiates whether she is amusing us with a story of orphan mischief or seriously discussing the consequences of hereditary alcoholism.  The pace of the novel also clips along due to the relative shortness of the epistolary style.<br />As beguiling as the characters and story is, there are drawbacks that date the work (written in the 1910's) with its references to inherited behavior, social expectations, and nationalist stereotypes.  A historical context is important for those.  The overall voice is strong enough to carry the worthwhile messages - particularly, forging a future and identity for girls.  I recommend this highly.  There are books that you return to time and time again to comfort, entertain, and enlighten you - this is one of those I have treasured from my childhood.  They need to bring this one back in print!	2003-01-16
US	48702608	RN1V1LT6EE68S	0140386645	374123609	The Westing Game	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A perfect mystery	The Westing Game is one of those books that you will return to time and time again.  It's not just an amazing mystery, it's an acute study of human nature, all wrapped up in wonderful writing.  Somehow, knowing the ending doesn't change your pleasure in re-reading this completely original book.  In fact, it will certainly enhance it once you know how everything fits so precisely, perfectly together. <br />The premise is that Sam Westing's multimillion-dollar fortune is up for grabs among 16 heirs - if one of them will find out who murdered him!  The will divides the quirky heirs (including Chinese restaurant owners, a socialite, a dressmaker, a judge, a podiatrist, an engaged couple, a shin-kicking teen, and a private investigator) into unusual pairs.  With all the heirs working or living in the same remote apartment complex, suspicions are rife and feelings are high.  In the midst of all this tension, there is also a bomber, a thief, and a mistake when a snowstorm isolates them.  Then the accidents begin...<br />The heirs are finely portrayed, and each is subtly revealed without giving away the plot.  Ellen Raskin creates a sense of history and personality for each of the characters.  She shows us their inner thoughts and actions in random, episodic scenes.  As a result, the action moves quickly and memorably, which is good because there is a lot to take in.  This isn't one of those mysteries you can figure out, so don't bother trying to remember it all.  Just sit back and let Raskin work her magic.  The Westing Game is deliciously clever, wildly funny, tightly organized, and delightfully captivating.<br />Raskin was a marvel and there aren't many of her books, so treasure this one.  The story has a few shivers and plenty of suspense, but nothing truly frightening or gruesome.  Every child deserves to experience this book, as do any adults who missed out as a kid.  Cannot recommend this enough!	2003-01-16
US	48702608	R3FJ4RT2DZ2KQE	0440484839	12674303	Taran Wanderer (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	a boy becomes a man	Taran, who we met as a boy in The Book of Three and whose splendid adventures we breathlessly followed in The Black Cauldron and The Castle of Llyr, decides to find himself and his past in the fourth marvelous Prydain Chronicle by gifted storyweaver Lloyd Alexander.  An orphan raised by the wise Dallben, he has none of the history and connections that come from parents and family.  Now, he off alone to find some answers - hopefully noble ones - so he can be \\"worthy\\" of his royal love.<br />If you're like me, you didn't love Taran automatically - he could occasionally be sullen, petty, and prickly during his \\"growing up\\" phases in Books 1 to 3 (necessitating Eilonwy's great put-downs and quips).  Continuing his growth, Taran Wanderer marks his first journey into adulthood.  This is the one where my respect for this character solidified and I really began to care for him.  This is the least \\"heroic\\" of the books, and yet, I believe this is one where Taran is most admirable.<br />He explores the land he has been fighting for by connecting to the common people as well as kings and wizards.  We are introduced to more excellent characters (besides some old ones) and a deeper understanding of Prydain with the intricate ties that bind all of them together.  On a quest for the Mirror of Llunet, Taran roams old and new territory from the Marshes to the Free Commots doing everything from making pottery to facing off against kingly challenges.  The change is how he sees the world, with its ugliness and beauty, as he searches for his place in it.  Along the way, he learns about himself: humbly, intelligently, honestly, and courageously.<br />As it closely builds on the last book in particular, and is in general an evolution of his maturity, reading the books in order is strongly recommended.  (Considering how wonderful the others are, this is no chore.)  It's a relatively quiet book compared to the rousing chases of the previous ones, but Taran Wanderer is ultimately more powerful and moving.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R2DGAJJ5G5HXO6	0440406498	711445845	The Black Cauldron (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	And the adventure continues...	Book 2 of the Prydain Chronicles, The Black Cauldron, returns us to the wonderful world of the unforgettable characters in The Book of Three. An uneasy peace has reigned, but with the Death Lord rising again, the adventurers are off, joined by new friends and foes - with either not always clear which is which (the wacky ladies of the Marshes of Morva and Ellidyr are real puzzlers). While each of these marvelous books can certainly stand alone and be judged individually, I like to think of them in their totality. The action and characters are briefly reintroduced in each work, but it's knowing where they came from that makes their present personalities and connections more meaningful, so I encourage reading them in order if possible.<br />The Black Cauldron is darker and more conflicted than its predecessor, but how can it not be with the dreadful Cauldron-born, the unkillable walking dead warriors - I'm all grown up and they still give me delicious heebie-jeebies. It may sound strange to enjoy the shivers, but that's the wonder of Lloyd Alexander's storytelling - you feel pity for these seemingly one-dimensional horrors. Similarly, Taran and his friends have left their innocence in Book 1. Being a Hero is not only more difficult than he thought, but Taran is not sure he knows what it means to be one anymore. The also-matured Eilonwy, Fflewddur, and Gurgi continue to be the brave, loyal friends who liven up the story with wit, sweetness, and (often) better sense.<br />Alexander mimics life so wisely, something I appreciate increasingly with each successive reading. Taran has to live with more difficult choices that no longer only affect those immediately around him. Not only is his newfound authority challenged, but people and situations are more ambiguous, no longer just good or bad, triumphant or defeated, joyful or sorrowful, but usually a combination of both. Death tinges these pages, not victoriously, but sadly - precisely because it is necessary. At the same time, the narrative is woven throughout with gentle humor. Nothing is absolute with Alexander, and the beauty of The Black Cauldron is how the conflict makes perfect sense.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R32IRH7D60BLJ3	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Just the beginning....	Like all great fantasy series, the Prydain Chronicles will resonate with you for a long while after you put them down. The Book of Three begins the legendary adventure of Taran, Eilonwy, Fflewddur Flam, Gurgi, Doli, and Gwydion. The heroes are witty, warm, and wise; the villains are frightening, chilling, and insidious. You will laugh and shudder by turns as Taran faces the Death Lord's minions on his search for the cute and prophetic pig, Hen Wen.<br />Lloyd Alexander's writing is first-rate and grand, like listening to a superb storyteller. His paints a vivid landscape peopled with truly unique characters. There is some argument about similarities with Tolkien, Star Wars, C.S. Lewis' Narnia, etc. Actually, you can take any epic about the battle of good and evil and point fingers, but isn't a good story worth another excellent retelling? This is one those rare treasures you read as a child, and rediscover as an adult again and again.<br />Why? Besides the lovely writing, the characters aren't simple bystanders or perfect people caught up in the action. They make choices (and mistakes), face consequences, and struggle through personal challenges. It's reality in an unreal setting. In this first book, Taran, in a rush to grow up, leaves his post as Assistant Pig-keeper to become a Hero. Everyone who has ever been an adolescent can relate to wanting to break away. Finding yourself is the hard part, and one aspect of the series is about this universal phase.<br />But it isn't all Serious and about Learning A Lesson. There is cheeky humor, poked at our valiant, though sometimes too earnest Taran. Things can't go according to the great Hero Plan with Eilonwy cutting him down to size, Doli scoffing at the young 'uns, and Gurgi wanting \\"munchings and crunchings\\" all the time. This is one of those books that you will feel ends too soon. Be sure to have the next one close at hand, because The Book of Three is just the beginning once you have tasted Alexander's magic.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	RIP6TMSV7BXG8	0440435749	989777565	The High King (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The End - but not really	After reviewing the previous four books of the Prydain cycle, you would think I would have run out of steam by now, but I'm not done yet!  The High King proves to be the best saved for last (or at least as outstanding as the others).  Lloyd Alexander can finally stretch his wings here with the marvelous heroes and heroine all grown up and ready to face the world - together.  All the great characters that gave the stories their extra sparkle are back, including enemies.  Taran, Eilonwy, and Company face the greatest danger to Prydain when Arawn, Death Lord steals a legendary guardian sword.<br />This is probably the most obvious of the books regarding good vs. evil, but don't slight its impact.  Alexander has amused, enthralled, and drawn us in with his unique interpretation of ancient Welsh myths as only a master storyteller can.  You will laugh and marvel as usual, but there are moments of bittersweetness.  You may hate these for being heartrending, but then realize that they couldn't be otherwise.<br />Alexander is in fine form with his quirky, yet beautiful rendered prose.  It is simplistic, soothing, and haunting, making the Chronicles perfect reading for all ages.  Kids can handle him and adults can appreciate the poetic rhythm.  Additionally, lessons (wise, but not preachy) unfolding in previous books culminate in the last.  Answers to questions and mysteries and personal histories are revealed (not to be missed if you read any of the others!).  While The High King can stand alone the most of the series, it's merely a good book without the other four.  All together, it is the ending to perhaps one of the most meaningful and moving fantasy series - ever.  I do not exaggerate, these are books that can change your life, and will continue to reveal wonders and wisdom every time you pick them up again.  Highly recommended for everyone, at any age.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R3JMJRVZGDAH7G	0812520858	517642132	The Magicians's Ward (Mass Market)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a great Wit: Wizard-in-training	Kim and Mairelon are back in a lovely sequel to Mairelon the Magician.  Kim begins her training as a wizard, while living with Richard Merrill (aka Mairelon) and his formidable Aunt Agatha as his ward.  This time we get a different look into Wrede's wonderfully evocative Regency England.  London is mostly grand homes and marquises, with an occasional trip to the Wizard's College to remind us that this is a fantasy.<br />Not that we need to be reminded, for there are enchanted plots abrewing.  A book of spells seems to be a popular wanted item, and when a backfired spell leaves Mairelon magically incapacitated, it¡¯s up to novice Kim and his vivacious mother to unravel the increasingly sinister mystery.  Additionally, Kim is the toast of London and with avid suitors seeking her hand, Mairelon has to face some difficult decisions.<br />Wrede again delivers a witty, sparkling story peopled by memorable characters.  The plot is as complex than the prequel, but without its madcap pace, this one falters a bit.  Some interesting supporting characters are Aunt Agatha, Mairelon's mother, and her monkey - giving us a look into society manners and fashions of the period.  Hunch is less prominent in this book, although we see more of Renee and her compatriots.  The mood is more serious than the farcical Mairelon the Magician, but has a more distinct touch of romance.  The ending is reminscent of Sherlock Holmes or Hercule Poirot and felt a little rushed.  As pleasant as the book was, I hope there is another sequel because it's not everyday you meet remarkable characters like Kim and Mairelon.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R3GNE0GKBVU7C7	0440411254	684291028	The Castle of Llyr (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Love me, love my kitty....	A slight break from the thunderous intensity of Prydain's battles, Book 3 features our favorite characters from the previous two books.  Again, maintaining continuity will greatly enhance your experience of each story.  Eilonwy, the girl adventurer must return to her proper position of Princess, or at least learn to be more like one - no easy task for this independent spirit.  She is sent to the Isle of Mona unknowingly to be prepared as the future Mrs. Prince Somebody.  Taran, her best friend and best enemy, is sent to escort her to Mona.  Unfortunately, there are plots afoot and Eilonwy is gone before they know it.  Taran, working through his odd, new emotions for the Princess, is off and running with the faithful Gurgi and king-cum-bard Fflewddur.  We also meet the silly, sweet Prince Rhun, a tuneful kitty, a subterranean giant, and a real witch.<br />While this is about Eilonwy, her heritage, and her future, it's also about the future of the friendship as people must change and follow their own destinies.  Taran poignantly learns that sometimes the very most you can do is nothing.  The change of pace is a refreshing, as we see the characters develop with each other instead of having to constantly flee/fight evil.  This adventure feels more like a quest, with challenges to overcome and a goal to reach.  In the process, all the heroes become closer and richer together.	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R2C6RUWFL1H42F	0765342324	152532989	Mairelon the Magician	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Magic and mayhem	Secrets run wild in this Regency Era fantasy flavored with elements of mystery and farce.  An unusual combination to say the least, as is the pairing of Mairelon, the gentleman magician, with Kim, the master lockpicker.  The hilarious, whirlwind plot revolves around the chasing and stealing of a set of magical silver objects, involving a disgruntled dwarf, a French ex-patriate, wannabe druids, a country house party, and the Bow Street Runners.<br />Patricia Wrede departs from her fantastic Enchanted Forest Chronicles by setting this story in semi-real Regency England, but the quick wit and light touch are still here with the bonus of exceptional period detail.  Kim's thieves' cant (slang) is interesting to decipher, contrasting nicely with Mairelon's toff's (aristocratic) education.  They make for rather amusing conversation, as you can imagine.  <br />In the midst of all the comedy and adventure, there are glimpses of the great class divide and the dark underbelly of the London streets.  A street thief didn't have a bright future, a girl's was much, much worse.  Wrede does an excellent job of recreating London¡¯s seamier side without becoming morose or harsh.  Kim is a wonderful heroine - tough, shrewd, wise, spirited, but tinged with a bit of sadness.<br />Overall, the mood is bright and witty, the humor a little wry, a little goofy, and a little sweet.  Particularly charming is the unpretentious Mairelon, who is very much an absent-minded-professor type.  The supporting characters are zany and lively.  The plot defies summary because it is complicated by many characters and places, but it's a surprisingly swift and smooth read - primarily due to Wrede's keen descriptive skills.  It was such a page-turner, I went out and got the sequel, The Magician's Ward, the next day because I was afraid it would end all too soon.  A satisfying, fun read, it will be over before you know it (or wish it to be).	2002-11-05
US	48702608	R2DTJK5011L6HX	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Like drinking the ocean	A.S. Byatt's Possession will continue to amaze, bewilder, and infect you with its magic long after you finish reading this engrossing book.  Possession is about literature, love, Victorians, and scholars, but they all boil down to that hunger for knowledge - of self, of others, of life.<br />There are two sets of players - modern-day Roland and Maud who search for 19th-century Randolph Ash and his muse, Christabel LaMotte.  Reading this work is almost overwhelming at times - there is poetry, mystery, literary theory, and romance practically surging out of its pages.  It's emotional, heady, and consuming - an unexpected adventure that takes place in the typically staid world of literary research.<br />The characters drive each moment of the plot, and are wonderfully executed.  This is old-fashioned good writing.  People and places come alive effortlessly and remain with you whether you are reading the book at the moment or not.  It feels almost like fantasy the way you slip into their world with every turn of the page.  As for the Ash/LaMotte literature in the work, I was surprised to realize that it was all fabricated by the author herself.  I had thought the writings were partly borrowed from real literary figures.  The scope and depth of these embellishments are well worth the time and effort if only to marvel at the impeccable performance.<br />Byatt accomplishes so much in the 555 pages, that the only way to do justice to the work is simply to read it.  A thrilling, stunning work, beautifully and emotionally uplifting.	2002-10-23
US	48702608	R2SBLS2X9T4RXX	0393010430	1686231	The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Gossipy history lesson	While it's probably true that if you're under 50 you most likely don't know who the Mitfords are.  That was the case with me, but I didn't find that it made a bit of difference.  Being young doesn't mean you have no sense of the historical.  If that were so, basically everyone who didn't live through WW2 would not be able to read this book.<br />The girls (author Nancy, socialite/fascist Diana, farmer Pamela, nazi Unity, communist Decca, and Duchess Debo) were heavily political and remarkably intelligent.  They were media darlings of the 1930's-60's.  Given their privileged, (though relatively poor) upbringing, and amazing involvement in the greatest events of the mid-20th century, you have to wonder what they thought, what made them tick, and what eventually happened to them.  All these factors make The Sisters a compelling read with semi-gossipy, semi-historical motivations.<br />All in all, Lovell is an easy author to follow - she's an unabashed Mitford fan and did her homework for this book - but you also get the impression that she idolizes the clan a bit too much for this to be entirely factual or objective.  But perhaps as readers, we wouldn't want it that way.  The women were sensational and eccentric if you admired them, selfish and self-destructive if you didn't.  The truth probably lies somewhere in the middle, which is mostly where this book is.<br />As much as I enjoyed reading the book and looking into the Mitford world, it was just that - looking in.  You never get the feeling that these are normal people you can relate to or would want to be, glamorous and fascinating as their lives were.  Historical significance aside, they didn't seem to be very likeable people - while sympathizing with tragedies and problems, you also feel they brought it upon themselves and acted stupidly in many regards.  As minor players on the large stage with Churchill, Hitler, and various political upheavals across Europe, and major players in the social and literary worlds,the Mitfords had interesting, almost surreal lives - but whether you like them or not isn't easily established.  Lovell's book takes in a lot of time and events, so you get to see this famous family in a long-range perspective, which gets you past the more bizarre episodes that would otherwise color your view of a sister.<br />I recommend this as a good read, but it will help enormously if you are a fan of the Mitfords.	2002-09-19
US	48702608	R26Q77K0ZQTI0E	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Attention: Trivia Buffs and Logophiles	I'm an inveterate word lover, so learning some interesting background on English made The Mother Tongue an obvious reading choice.  Add to that, my devotion to Bill Bryson books, and it was a match made in book heaven.<br />Still, like all assumed things, it wasn't a perfect arrangement - the first chapter began with some references that instantly dated the work - namely, the former Soviet Union, which was still very much in existence when this was written.  It sort of put a damper on my enthusiasm.  Still, I found plenty to keep me engrossed and the book never left my side once I began it.<br />Bryson does his research - this is clear in all his other works as well - but something that is as scholarly as the English language, needs a steadier hand with things that are open to interpretation.  Personally, I enjoyed the random trivia and digressions, but that style may not appeal to all.  <br />If you like Bryson, like languages, and have a good sense of humor, The Mother Tongue is a worthwhile read.  I recommend it.	2002-08-21
US	48702608	R2WBO3FBQTBL25	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	5	6	6	N	N	America the Beautiful	*A little warning: Bill Bryson, whom fans saw waving good-bye to jolly England in his last book (Notes from a Small Island), is found here in lovely little Hanover in the New Hampshire mountains.  I have inordinate fondness for Hanover, having spent my undergrad years there, so I am both very familiar and very biased here.  I am also inordinately fond of Bryson (who I saw once sitting at our local pub) as a smart, witty, keen-eyed writer.  Stranger gives you plenty to think and laugh about (sometimes simultaneously).  I can't recommend him enough!  I never travel without a Bryson book with me.*<br />After spending almost all of his adult life in Great Britain, Bryson has to relearn those fun experiences like mortgages, neighbors, and raising kids, American-style.  From spackle to post offices, from haircuts to the lost art of walking, the little things in life are highlighted and inspected in Bryson's funny, funny way.  He is sarcastic and befuddled by turns, but with the wry humor of a man who knows life is messy and complicated, but grand all the same.  He makes the most of his surroundings and modern America.<br />The chapters are actual columns that originally ran in a British newspaper, so they are somewhat tailored to that audience.  Of course, this means there are a few \\"explanations\\" of American customs, but hardly anything to get upset over as some reviewers have.  Bryson speaks of his own perceptions of his own experiences, not so criminal in a memoir.  And it is quite clear that he enjoys life in the US - strange as it is for him at times, which is what makes the book hilarious.  Check out his thoughts on taxes, computer tech support, death statistics, and America's car dependency.  Not to mention the general theme of a very confused middle-aged man trying to get back in sync with the country he grew up in.<br />Bryson has mellowed gradually, with each of his books.  Here he is wonderfully human - a happy family man, an earnest citizen, an ardent observerlooking at America from a unique perspective.  You'll be pleasantly surprised at how it will make you appreciate, or at least consider, the little things we Americans take for granted.  A fine, intelligent work that will have you entertained from cover to cover.	2002-08-21
US	48702608	R123DXFXENLJYQ	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Anglophiles Unite!	I've read every Bill Bryson book I could get my hands on, starting with A Walk in the Woods, probably his best work so far.  That being said, I'll admit the others in his repertoire fall a bit short in comparison (how could they not?) - but please don't let that dissuade you from this wonderful writer.<br />Bryson has made a reputation of his personal, detailed, humorous observances of places foreign.  Notes from a Small Island is much like its title - quirky, tongue-in-cheek, and a sort of literary snapshotting.  As Bryson prepares to leave Britain, his adopted country of the last 25 years, he takes one last fond look around before shoving off for the Colonies (New Hampshire to be exact - check out I'm a Stranger Here Myself).<br />Bryson's style won't suit everyone.  He's a touch caustic and not a little tempermental.  This makes for bitingly funny stuff - very British, in fact.  He's wonderfully witty, without being superior, and a nuanced writer.  He knows what he thinks/feels and he knows how to express himself eloquently.  Also, his background info is studied, smart, and relevant (but his digressions are great).  This is not to say that he is erudite or arrogant - actually, he's very accessible and tells his stories like you're sitting with him in a pub with a pint.  I could listen to (read) them into the wee hours.<br />What really marks Bryson from other travelogues is his humor and his sincerity.  I almost never get openly excited when reading, but with Bryson, I can't even take his books out in public because I find myself shaking helplessly from laughter.  Also, you know you've found a winner, when you feel the urge to stop people and read passages aloud, just because it's so satisfyingly funny and dead-on.  You just gotta share this stuff!  Another appealing characteristic of Bryson is his honesty.  He can be poignant, hilarious, a little mean, even profound at times, but he's always completely genuine even when looking the fool (which he does marvelously).<br />The reason I can't give this one 5 stars is because I've never been to the UK and can't quite tune into Bryson's frequency here.  Still, there is plenty to keep you entertained in fine Bryson style.  You won't regret a word.	2002-08-21
US	48702608	RFR86J9SWG9CL	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Austen's Best	While doing research for a high school paper on Pride and Prejudice, I often came across the statement that Emma was Austen's masterpiece.  Having practically memorized P&P and Persuasion as a child, I found this near impossible to believe, especially as I couldn't get into Emma's dense text.  Well, it's been 7 years hence and I'm eating my words.  Emma is by far Austen's greatest literary achievement.  The style and language and overall concept display her restraint and command as an author.  Every word is perfectly chosen and placed - a brilliant feat that doesn't excite, but soothes the soul.  The work isn't quite as plot-driven as P&P, or even S&S, and everything revolves around the ingenue, Emma Woodhouse.  If there was such a thing as an epic about one simple person, Emma would be it.<br />Love her or hate her, Emma is quite a creation.  She's somehow both the heroine and anti-heroine, sincerely generous and wildly selfish, preternaturally poised and childishly weak.  While Emma is not spared when she is wrong, it's very clear that Austen loves her - the sharpness of her satiric voice is soften by the overall tone of complacency and fondness.  Never do you worry that Emma will turn out badly.  <br />In addition to the remarkably controlled and polished language and structure, Austen's voice is more in evidence here than in any other novel, much to her credit.  The lack of a precise plot, makes the author's tone much more important - you feel with Emma, while also being able to judge her.  Austen inhabits Emma's head, giving you her particular slant on things (with remarkable nonchalance and neutrality), but also looks at the world of Highbury at large, giving you the chance to also see things as they actually are (and gently laughing at Emma's egocentricity).  Emma isn't the darling Elizabeth Bennet is, but neither is she so nearly one-dimensional.  Elizabeth is a latter-day Emma - too right, too cool, too witty.  Emma is more graceful, but human, conflicted,young.  Sometimes seeing a character's gradual growth is a worth more than watching her get from Point A to Point B.<br />The lesser characters set off Emma as the heroine more than her own actions do.  They are seen as the typical flawed humans, who will stay irredeemably mediocre.  Emma isn't really as perfect as she thinks she is, but she can and will grow beyond her immaturity.  It's abundantly clear that Elton, Mrs. E, and even Harriet will never do so.  As for the character who spouts off the mind-numbing chatter in all Austen's works, Miss Bates is the best of the bunch.  What is amazing is how logically it all flows together.  Genius.<br />Emma is a princess, a do-gooder, a child-woman becoming a woman.  While Emma is a bit hard to love, she is Austen's ideal: warm, sincere, graceful, teachable, and thinking.  Her counterpart in her metamorphosis is Mr. Knightley.  He's the everyman version of Darcy's integrity and presence, but approachable, wise, eloquent, and practical.  His semi-role as Emma's teacher bothers some readers, but given their difference in age and experience, it's only natural.  After all, he can't still be learning life's lessons at his age, unlike the young group in P&P.  All in all, Emma will be appreciated by readers who care about authorial voice and respect her more mature grasp of language.  It's really quite impossible to compare P&P and Emma - so to avoid disappointment, I don't recommend fixating on a rehash of a boy-meets-girl plot.  This story is richly told and is most definitely about the girl.	2002-08-05
US	48702608	RZFBPIJFZ83K6	1558820132	439891435	Love of Seven Dolls	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Passionate, brilliant storytelling	After seeing the beautifully moving film, Lili, I had to read the novella it was based upon.  That led me to Love of Seven Dolls.  I expected something similar to Lili's colorful, soulful setting, but Gallico is anything but.  His writing is a storm of emotions, action, and darkness - inexplicably compelling and enrapturing.  The language isn't particularly polished or eloquent, but the feeling behind them is breathtakingly fierce.  Through simple, almost juevenile words, Gallico takes you into the anti-hero Michel Peyrot's mind.  He's half-mad and starved of any human kindness.  The use of the seven puppets is a stroke of genius and perfectly illuminates Michel's sadly distorted spirit.  The protagonist, Mouche, is abused, tender, and childlike, but is wise beyond her time as we see when we delve into her humility, forgiveness, gratitude.<br />I found some parts to be rather disturbing, but this is a study of the best and worst of humanity: Mouche's heroism and Michel's depravity.  It's not simple or even realistic, but it mines psychological nuances uncannily, reminiscent of A Streetcar Named Desire.  Recommended for mature readers.	2002-08-05
US	48702608	R2NT4VD8XSRSOT	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hurrah for Singletons!	Bridget sounds like every woman's nightmare.  She's a seemingly shallow, insecure, ego-centric, delusional, semi-feminist, weight-obsessed, cigarette-and-alcohol-addicted, boyfriend-hungry \\"singleton\\" surrounded by \\"smug marrieds\\" and her garish mother - at least in her diary, where all her flaws get to come out.  All in all, a pretty normal woman.  The nightmare part is that it's constantly (and publicly) found out that she's not the superwoman/goddess that modern society seems to expect.<br />But that's alright.  She's also beguilingly charming, warm-hearted, witty (after disaster occurs, of course), and keenly observant when you least expect it.  All the wrong funny things lead to all the right funny things.  Follows Pride and Prejudice much closer than you would believe (try reading them in succession/concurrently), this is an inspired re-writing of Jane Austen's classic.  A fresh voice in an timeless situation of woman v. the world.  Guess who wins?<br />So, it's a bit predictable, but that doesn't take away from Bridget's charisma.  She's wonderfully, deleriously human.  An overdose of self-help books has her aiming for high, vague ideals like Inner Poise.  Her friends, having read different self-help books, aren't much help, but a crazy continuation of Bridget's frazzled, endearing self.<br />The movie captures Bridget's screwball comic essence (as well as Daniel Cleaver's caddishness) brilliantly, but the rest didn't do justice to her friends or mother.  A great read at any time, it will go all too quickly.  V. v. good.	2002-08-02
US	48702608	R1DSFBOFQQB9X2	0761119396	690240158	Three Black Skirts: All You Need to Survive	Books	4	6	6	N	N	from the trenches	I *am* a twenty-something who received this from a friend, so I guess it was a timely gift.  I agree that this book isn't for everyone.  I skipped the part on juggling motherhood and a career, not just because I'm not a mother (after all, future reference is key sometimes), but because it was rather obvious that Johnson isn't in her element - she flounders her way through the section at best.  Ditto for the part on depression, (although she deserves serious praise for bringing attention to something that affects so many women).  However, the sections on financial matters, being a handywoman, and career tips were fountains of sound advice with a few splashes of truly original, interesting ideas.<br />The chapters that didn't jive so well were the ones devoted to too much detail or the ones that seemed to dictate personal style.  Her cooking section would have been better off going over basics (stepping up from dorm cooking and take-out) and recommending a variety of cookbooks for a variety of tastes.  Her spare, decorative food didn't sound all that appealing and was a bit daunting for everyday eating or the novice cook.  In other areas as well, Johnson is a minimalist and seems to want you to be too.  It would have gone over better if she had just stated her advice as a checklist of \\"must-haves\\" for general living, with a few \\"must-nots\\" from going over the top.  If you want to look like a bone fide New Yorker, take notes on her \\"chic\\" (who uses \\"chic\\" these days??) fixation.  The style section is definitely for the post-20's generation, who want to look polished and Audrey Hepburn-esque, not fun and youthful.<br />However, the book is fun to read (note the author's great illustrations) and Johnson charms and soothes you into overlooking the less-perfect parts.  No general self-help book can ever cover every aspect of your life (especially love and friendships), but this tries bravely.  She like an older and wiser sorority sister mentor (without the silly trappingsof the collegiate microcosm).  Her personal stories that illustrated a point now and then, had me wanting to hear more.  She gives off an aura of having had an exciting life without divulging much.  While I respect her restraint (how easy is it to ramble on about oneself), the book would have been more meaningful with fuller examples.<br />A nice touch at the end, Johnson reminds readers to \\"give back.\\"  By being green, by giving to charity, by using resources.  Her spiritual advice fell flat, but her real point is made dead-on in the solitude and final sections on helping others.  And last, but not least, do check out her great bibliography - she's a woman who knows where to go for information.  If you pick and chose wisely, as Johnson no doubt would, you'll come away with a couple of gems in this classy, fun book.	2002-08-01
US	48702608	REAOVYTB2YEZB	0140431217	205100834	Adam Bede (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Classic tale of strength and weakness	George Eliot weaves a simple story of love, suffering, and goodness.  While the plot is hardly complex (boy loves girl, another boy gets girl, unhappiness abounds - also reused in Mill on the Floss), the manner in which Eliot develops her characters and their emotions and actions ring as true and resoundingly as a bell.  It's so clear, so obvious, but also moving and textured.  You feel Adam's absolute love for vain little Hetty, Dinah's calming grace, Arthur's good intentions, Lisbeth's fretting nature.  Eliot draws you in with her honest observations of life in a country town, without the background becoming a dominant factor.  The near idyllic life the characters lead is a healthy contrast to the town's emotional upheaval.<br />Adam is an upright, genuine character, and not as perfect as he seems.  If his love for Hetty seems unfounded at times, it only serves to highlight how dangerous delusions can be.  All the \\"sinners\\" are ultimately redeemed by truth - true love, true friends, true promises, and true acceptance.  Religion plays a significant part in the novel, but don't let that deter you.  It's so much more than that - Adam Bede is truly one of the few works that encompass a world of humanity between two covers.<br />AB reminded me of Tess of the D'Ubervilles a bit, but there is no villain here, just flawed, honest people in search of unattainable dreams.  In the process of trying to get a bit of happiness, they stumble and bleed, but ultimately find something truly worth having.  Bittersweetness is Eliot's trademark for good reason.<br />George Eliot's first full novel is obviously a bit less polished than her later works, but you see the wonderful command she has over language and expression. The book, the people, the story all come alive with her touch.  A rare read that has something to say and says it beautifully.	2002-07-29
US	48702608	R2ILIZ8ZXTZBNY	014243700X	664600793	Wives and Daughters (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Enjoyable, light classic	The novel itself is as unintentionally deceptive as the charming Cynthia. The style and insights into Victorian England is more a result of intuition than study. The heavier topics don't encroach on the pleasant plot, making W&D a more shallow affair than it should be. While I would hardly put Mrs. Gaskell in the same class as Austen, there are some similarities. The style is very readable, while not quite a page-turner. The plot is fresh and fleshed out, as are most of the characters. There is a tendency towards caricature, but the fine portraits of Molly Gibson, her father, and the Hamleys more than make up for the others. This is where Gaskell and Austen part company. Gaskell doesn't have quite the ear for nuances or the skill of pen, often repeating phrases and including too many allusions to then-contemporary sources for almost-inside-jokes. The writing seems less polished because of these unnecessary distractions.<br />For those interested in Victorian times, the novel provides a pleasant, graceful look into the lives of country folk and gentry without getting into the nitty-gritty of Eliot or Dickens. And, unfortunately, there isn't quite the depth and range of the latter authors that gives you a real taste of all the amazing and terrible lives of common Victorians. It's a light classic, easy to read and engaging enough to take on your commute, but for a deeper view of country life, try George Eliot or Thomas Hardy. And as I understand it, W&D was a departure from Gaskell's usual topics, so maybe her earlier works will have that combination of readability with a less pretty look at society.	2002-07-18
US	48702608	R2HJKA58ODLQSD	0140433880	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Quintessential English Masterpiece	This is not for the faint of heart.  I'll be the first to admit that Eliot is no day-in-the-park author.  She's regal, she's massive, she's intense.  She's the Titanic, the way it was meant to be.  The upside of all this is that you enter a world of literature so engrossing and pungent, it will be hard to pick up a less involved book afterwards.  Eliot is an aquired taste for some, but, oh, what a taste!  I began her books with Middlemarch and it has been my ultimate favorite ever since.  It even surpasses Pride and Prejudice in my estimation, no small concession.<br />Middlemarch isn't a glamourous town, but it *is* full of strangely fascinating normal people.  They're deliciously human, understandably flawed, and believably redeemed.  Love, life, and death are not sugar-coated, but shown in all their respective glory and shabbiness.  The characters, however minor, are honestly portrayed, making you feel like one of them.  Idealistic Dorothea could have lived in any age, in any place.  Lydgate is another.  They are mirrored by the sad realism of the Bulstrode and Casaubon among others.  All the other Middlemarchers fall in between these common extremes.  With as broad a brush as Eliot paints with (covering religion, provincial politics, social mores, business, romance), there are also many (relevant) commentaries that have her wielding as fine as brush as an ivory-painter (intricacies of human nature, society, and the ironies of life).  Eliot was an unabashed intellectual, but persuasive and logical, making it a pleasure to delve into her mind.  Her works are diamonds in English Lit - captivating from afar as they are breathtaking up close.  Read her for the fun plots, as well as the brilliant insights.<br />The characters are true, the settings are used to perfection, and the complexity is amazing.  The characters may not endear themselves to you on paper, but they become so lifelike through details that they will compel feelings through reason - reaching your heart through your brain.  Not a likely arrangement, but one that Eliot pulls off uncannily.<br />Eliot made a masterpiece of town life with Middlemarch.  The same is done for pastoral life with Mill on the Floss and Adam Bede.  For a shorter, sweeter story, read Silas Marner.  And never lump her with Dickens, who gracelessly and grotesquely inflates life in order to make a point.	2002-07-18
