US	48720238	R2XCOOVFG4O5JR	0553279718	662268278	The Uplift War (The Uplift Saga, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Classic From Brin	Warning: if you are not a fan of novels that deal in ideas over mindless shoot-`em-ups, which trade in complex concepts and mysteries rather than simple plots, or that take their time to develop three dimensional, motivated characters rather than offer thinly drawn, unimaginative dimbulbs whose chief function is to chew cigars and shewt them thar alien critters, then this book is not for you. However, if you are a fan of those things, then The Uplift War is something you should read, if you haven't already. This novel is one of David Brin's finest, brimming cover to cover with the things that make science fiction great: rich world-building, characters that leap off the page and make you care about them, tight plotting, aliens that are truly alien rather than just humans in suits, and enough credible science to please a bevy of MIT grads. <br />The novel is set in Brin's Uplift universe, introduced in his novel Sundiver and fleshed out in his Hugo winning Startide Rising. Uplift War won the Hugo as well, a considerable achievement . . . and while it is not quite as good as the book that preceded it, it is still a thoroughly excellent novel, which benefits from being both part of a great series of books, and being a novel that can be read as a stand-alone. <br />Anyone interested enough in Brin and the Uplift universe should know something about it by now; for those who don't, they can glean all they need to know from other reviews of this book or any of the other Uplift books. The simple explanation is that every species in the Five Galaxies as been uplifted or raised to sentience by another race, except for the \\"wolfling\\" human race. As a result, humans' place in the galactic political structure is uncertain at best. And humans, aided by their own uplifted clients, chimpanzees and dolphins, have a knack for stirring up trouble.<br />In the case of The Uplift War, the Five Galaxies are in turmoil because of an important find made by the dolphin ship Streaker-a mummified corpse nicknamed Herbie that may be one of the fabled Progenitors, the race that first uplifted a client species billions of years ago, and the location of the derelict fleet where Herbie was found. (All this is dealt with in far more detail in Startide Rising, and though it isn't necessary to read that book to enjoy this one, you may want to do so anyway because it's just as good.) Streaker and its dolphins never make an appearance in Uplift War except by mention, but the repercussions of their discovery are a chief motivator for everything that happens.<BR> <BR>The novel is set on Garth, a planet nearly destroyed by its last owners, a client race that reverted to feral status and ravaged it. It was given over to Humans mostly as a cruel joke by the other Galactics-the planet is on the verge of dying, and if it fails, it will be a Human failure, furthering the arguments of those who want to reduce Men to clients. But because war is erupting across the Galaxies, Garth has gained strategic importance-especially if it can be seized from the Humans, and its large population of uplifted chimpanzees can be made to forsake their Human patrons in favor of another race. This is the plot of the Gubru, birdlike beings that invade Garth near the beginning of the novel, plunging the planet into chaos and putting its residents under martial law. <br />Among those residents are Robert Oneagle, a captain in the Planetary Defense force and son of the Planetary Coordinator; Fiben Bolger, a chimpanzee ecologist and lieutenant in the militia; Uthacalthing, the practical-joke-loving Tymbrimi ambassador; his spirited daughter Athaclena; Kault, the newly-arrived Thenannin ambassador; Gailet Jones, a chimpanzee sociologist; and Sylvie, a chimpanzee who becomes one of Fiben's companions. They are thrown together in various interesting combinations as Humans and chimpanzees fight a guerilla war to free Garth, and uncover the Gubru's plot to replace Men as chimpanzees' patrons. A secondary plot is the race to discover and adopt a mysterious, unseen race known as Garthlings. There's also a developing relationship between Robert Oneagle and Athaclena, an intricate jest planned by Uthacalthing, explorations of the various aliens on Garth, action galore, and more mysteries than you can shake a banana at. <br />Brin handles it all with aplomb and intelligence. He lets the story develop at its own pace-something I find far preferable to the forced pace of most SF. Along the way develops his characters, and their stories, in truly masterful fashion. Most impressive, aside from his adept handling of the Tymbrimi and Gubru characters, is what he does with the chimpanzees. As he did with the dolphins in Startide Rising, Brin takes animals we have unconsciously anthropomorphized for decades, and creates for them an intelligence similar to, yet wholly independent from, what we think of as human. Brin makes an entirely new species out of his &quot;chims,&quot; and the more you read about them the more fascinating, and enjoyable, they become. Of course, the same can be said of all the characters in the book, but the chims are the heart of this novel, much as the dolphins were in Startide. They make the book what it is.<br />One of the things the book is, is long. At over six hundred pages it's pretty darned big, and there's a little fat here and there that Brin might have been able to safely cut-but this is a minor fault, in the end. The Uplift War is an excellent, intelligent novel, an exhilarating page-turner that exemplifies so much of what is great about science fiction. Just writing about it has made me want to read it all over again, and higher praise than that I cannot give.	2004-05-28
US	48720238	R3SQ7ABR1MPHBF	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Care Of The Reaper Man	I was never much of a fan of humorous fantasy/sf before I encountered Terry Pratchett. Most of what I read in the genre-Robert Asprin, say, and to some extent even the venerable Douglas Adams-depended far too much on the obvious, the over-labored, and the repetetive. (After all, how many different ways are there to describe the effects of a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster?) What's more, whatever humorous premise the writer comes up with is invariably not enough to sustain a single book, let alone a series of them (with a series of increasingly bad puns for titles).<BR> <BR>Then I was introduced to Terry Pratchett, and his hilarious novels of the Discworld, and my outlook on humorous fantasy changed somewhat. I discovered that it is possible to write a humorous fantasy novel not only well, but superbly-and that it is possible to sustain not just a single book, but a series of them, and have that series grow more complex, powerful and meaningful as those books progress. And of Pratchett's Discworld novels, one of the most powerful and meaningful is Reaper Man. <BR> <BR>A little background on the Discworld is necessary at this point-but just that, as a little is all that's really needed. The Discworld is what we used to think Earth was-in a word, flat. \\"Like a geological pizza without the anchovies,\\" as Pratchett himself describes it. The Discworld rests on the backs of four giant elephants, which themselves rest on the back of a truly Jovian turtle-and all this is really beside the point, because Pratchett's books aren't really about the Discworld. They just happen there. These books are far more concerned with people, and their hearts, than with the place they inhabit-which is all to the good, because the books wouldn't be half what they are otherwise.<BR> <BR>Reaper Man deals with one of Pratchett's most compelling characters-Death. Yes, Death. Skeletal, long black robe, scythe, all the Bergmanesque caricature you could want . . . yet this Grim Reaper is not a caricature at all. Nor is he particularly grim, come to think of it. He's a craftsman, who takes pride in his work...or did, until the events in this book start. The problem is that Death has begun to become a persona as well as a personification of nature, and as such has become an annoyance to the Auditors, beings whose sole purpose in the universe is not just to serve entropy, but to speed it up wherever possible. They do not want a Death who spends his free time pondering the imponderables of human nature, so they relieve him of his duties, and he descends to the Discworld, a mortal for the first time in his existence. <BR> <BR>This, as you might imagine, causes no end of problems for everyone. For one thing, people stop dying at their appointed times-and while that may not seem to be such a terrible thing at first, what about those who were ready to die, expecting it, and who will settle for nothing less? That is the fate of ancient wizard Windle Poons, when he reaches what he thinks is the end of his life. He doesn't. He gets mad, to say the least, and gathering behind him a cadre of disadvantaged undead, Poons sets out to find just what in the world has-or more accurately, hasn't-happened. Meanwhile, Death has found gainful employment as a farmhand (a natural job for a man used to scythework), starts to learn what being a mortal is all about, and becomes more and more obsessed with his own mortality . . . especially when he realizes that someone (or something) has to take his place, and that it might very well be coming after him first . . .<BR> <BR>And that is all I can reveal, I'm afraid. If you want to know the rest, such as the fate of Death, and Windle Poons, and many others, you must read the book. But be warned: you should be prepared to laugh very hard . . . and to cry as well. For as funny as Terry Pratchett is, at his best he can also be profoundly moving, and Reaper Man is one of the most moving fantasy novels I have ever written. There are problems with the book-the Windle Poons story is never linked well enough with Death's, and there is a subplot involving prominent Discworld wizards that seems to belong in another book entirely. So what? As good as it is, Reaper Man is not Pratchett's best Discworld novel, a prize which surely must go to Small Gods, or Witches Abroad, or Men at Arms-nor is it his funniest, which must surely be Soul Music, or Interesting Times, or Hogfather, or Lords and Ladies, or . . . well, you get the idea. If I had to pick one author whose books I would like to be stuck on a desert island with, it'd be Terry Pratchett. Quite a turnaround for someone who never liked comic fantasy very much, eh?	2004-05-25
US	48720238	R1YJUX3C9EF4SP	140003339X	471212842	McSweeney's Mammoth Treasury of Thrilling Tales	Books	4	3	5	N	N	An Excellent Collection	I love to read short fiction. I think the forms of short story, novelet, and novella are sorely overlooked and underappreciated in the literary world today. Having attempted to work with all three forms in my own writing, I know just how hard it is to make even a conditional success of them, let alone turn out works that are complex, and which engage the mind as well as the heart. That's why when I find a modern collection of really good short stories, I invariably rave about it and recommend it to everybody I can find. Such books are increasingly rare treasures in today's easy-reading, fast-food-fiction world, and deserve to be read by as many people as possible. <br />That's why, if you haven't already, you should run out and find a copy of McSweeney's Mammoth Treasury of Thrilling Tales. The list of contributors alone should be enough to get your attention: Stephen King, Carol Emshwiller, Laurie King, Glen David Gold, Michael Chabon, Elmore Leonard, Michael Crichton, Neil Gaiman-and that's just a few of the many excellent writers contributing some truly excellent work to this anthology.<br />Chabon, author of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Klay, one of the best novels of recent years, says in the introduction that he longed to get away from the \\"short stories, plotless and sparkling with epiphanic dew\\" that characterize so much of modern short fiction, and return to the great old days of the tightly-plotted tales in pulp magazines. So when Dave Eggers asked him to guest-edit his pomo quarterly, McSweeney's, Chabon jumped at the chance to bring his dream to life. To that end, this book has \\"pulp\\" written all over it, from the cover art (taken from an actual 1940 cover from Red Star Mystery Magazine), to the lurid exclamations of the cover copy, to the hyperbolic story summaries on the contents page, to Howard Chaykin's expressive illustrations; the whole creates a package designed to put one in mind of the pulps' heyday-and while the stories within aren'tquite that spectacular, they're still damned impressive. I'll describe just a few of them here, due to space limitations as much as anything else--but bear in mind that these are by no means a representative sampling of this varied anthology, just a few of my favorites:<br />*\\"The Tears of Squonk, and What Happened After,\\" Glen David Gold's heartfelt meditation on revenge; <br />*\\"Catskin,\\" an eerie fairy tale by Kelly Link; <br />*Nick Hornby's \\"Otherwise Pandemonium,\\" a great urban fantasy about a teenaged boy whose secondhand VCR shows him the future; <br />*\\"Weaving the Dark,\\" by Laurie King, a creepy yet humorous mystery (whose illustration, unfortunately, gives the ending away); <br />*\\"Ghost Dance,\\" a dark and grim horror-fest by Sherman Alexie; <br />*\\"The Martian Agent, a Planetary Romance,\\" by Chabon himself, an excellent alternative history tale, very much in the vein of Michael Moorcock (himself a contributor), and a delightful closer for the anthology-with the promise of a sequel to come. Can't wait!<BR>       <BR>Other stories are good, though not perhaps the classics Chabon was hoping for-like Michael Chrichton's \\"Blood Doesn't Come Out,\\" which is dark and effective though a bit unsavory, Moorcock's \\"The Case of the Nazi Canary,\\" which is almost too clever and wry for its own good, Harlan Ellison's \\"Goodbye to All That,\\" a reprint of a story he's already published (the lone exception in an anthology that promises the stories are all new, never before seen), and which is a retread of his Ronald Colman/Shangri-la/shaggy-dog-story-with-a-bad-punchline obsession. It's a decent story, but I would have preferred something original from Harlan. And Stephen King's \\"The Tale of Gray Dick,\\" an excerpt from the most recent Dark Tower novel, is far more subtle than his usual fare, and less engaging because of it, though it does grow on you. <br />Probably the best story in McSweeney's is Rick Moody's \\"The Albertine Notes,\\" a tour de force tale about a drug that allows one to relive memories. It's not unlike a Philip K. Dick story in sensibility, though in terms of writing and execution it's light years past even PKD's best work. The deeper you get into Moody's dark, atmospheric story (set in a near-future New York that is nightmarishly close to our worst surmises about what terrorism could do to it), the more it unfolds and envelops you; perceptions change, events shift, and reality itself goes up for grabs. The climax of the story, told in a Joycelike rush of prose that is one of the most thrilling, enthralling things I've read in years, must be read carefully to be understood; once you do so, I guarantee you a frisson you will remember fondly for a long time. In my opinion, \\"The Albertine Notes\\" is one of the best stories I've read in years. <BR>       <BR>If you love short fiction as much as I do, McSweeney's is for you. It's a multifarious, engaging, occasionally frustrating, but thoroughly excellent read, and one I hope you'll treasure for years to come. The best part is that a second McSweeney's book, likewise edited by Chabon, is due out later this year. If it's anywhere near as good as the first, I'm there.	2004-05-19
US	48720238	R364P5OGV6QC5V	0971991901	830969634	How to Succeed in Heaven Without Really Dying	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Entertaining First Novel	If you're anything like me - and I know I am - then at this time of year, either in the midst of or just after the holidays, you are stressed to one degree or another. You're tired, and a little fershimmeled, and not prepared for anything to make great demands on your time or your mind. In short, you're in the mood for a diversion, something that's fun and funny and full of heart, easy to follow and hard to put down. If you fit this description, then Adam McDaniel has a story he'd like to tell you. <BR> <BR>How to Succeed in Heaven Without Really Dying (which I gave two stars on the basis of the title alone) is the tale of Micah Cohen, a grown-up orphan with a lot of problems. Most of them stem back to the accident that claimed his parents when he was a boy. Micah nearly died in that accident as well, and is convinced that he survived only as a result of some form of divine intervention, in the form of a red-haired girl who may or may not have been an angel. Micah isn't sure, and it's that uncertainty which is the hardest thing for him to live with. <BR> <BR>Flash forward to the present: Micah is a young professional stuck in a dead-end job at a monolithic company in New York City, depressed and tired of slugging it out day after day against a world that seems indifferent at best, actively antagonistic towards him at worst. He decides to end it all - and by making that decision, Micah sets in motion a chain of events that include guardian angels, agents of Death, miracles, disasters, lies, half-truths, and even a few genuine surprises. <BR> <BR>That's a lot to pack into a couple of hundred pages, and it's pretty ambitious for a first-time novelist to even attempt - even more so when you consider that McDaniel's novel is a comedy. Yet McDaniel pulls it off with a fair degree of proficiency. The humor is based in whimsy rather than insult, which I find refreshing, and I got many smiles and several genuine laughs out of the story. McDaniel has a gift for witty dialoguethat I found very enjoyable. <br />However, the novel is by no means perfect - there are moments that are off-putting, or contrived, or both - and at some points the story and characters both seem a little weak. Sometimes McDaniel tries too hard for his jokes, as in the case of the corporate monolith Micah works for, improbably named Macchiavellian Foods. Sometimes McDaniel doesn't try hard enough, as in the case of Micah's failed suicide, which wants to be uproariously funny but comes off as barely chuckle-producing, and even a little pathetic. Somehow, I don't think that was the reaction the author wanted.<BR> <BR>There is also the much thornier question of theology - this is a story set at Christmastime, dealing with guardian angels, with a Jewish protagonist who winds up (SPOILER ALERT) falling in love with, and sleeping with, his guardian angel. Devout Christians and Jews alike may find this offensive - I didn't per se, but I did find myself wondering how germane the love story was to the larger tale being told. It adds little, and is actually something of a distraction from the overall arc of the plot. It feels tacked-on, as if McDaniel felt it necessary to add the love story in order to provide a little spice to the proceedings. It's daring, to be sure, but it raises theological issues with the reader that McDaniel may not have intended, and which as a result go unaddressed. However, this is a comedy, not a dissertation, so perhaps it isn't entirely fair to expect McDaniel to wrap everything up quite so neatly. <BR> <BR>The novel is at its best in its second half, as Micah goes about the business of redeeming his wasted life - McDaniel has a much surer sense of what he's doing here, and provides the reader with several scenes that make you smile and tug at your heart. He isn't afraid of sentiment, or of the occasional big gesture of the type Frank Capra used to make in his movies (an interesting notion I'll return to in a moment), and it is in these scenes that How To Succeed In Heaven finds itself. The story builds nicely to its climax, and for a good while you're unsure if the light at the end of the tunnel is the sun or a train. The ending is a little predictable - the cover of the book itself is something of a giveaway - but how McDaniel arrives at that ending is clever enough to fool you.<BR> <BR>Overall, How To Succeed In Heaven Without Really Trying is a good first novel, an entertaining story that's well-told for the most part, and which reads like a good though not exceptional Hollywood movie. (In fact, I suspect this may be a converted screenplay, as it does a lot of its work through visual imagery.)  I mentioned Capra in the last paragraph, and the story contains several Capraesque elements, especially its gentle sense of humor, and its firmly-held contention that one man can indeed make a difference in the lives of those around him. The novel has its flaws - including a subplot about a child-porn bust that has little to do with the main story - but most first novels have flaws, and if the story is good enough I'm inclined to overlook them. That's the case here. I found McDaniel's novel to be an ideal diversion at this stressful time of year, and I hope that you will too.	2002-12-20
US	48720238	R1PVIN04EFSCGX	1563152770	811349970	Lord Brother	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Virtuoso Performance	The best books are like good music: They seduce you, they comfort you, they transport you to another place and time, they unsettle you, they make you see things as you hadn't before, they make the blood surge in your veins and make your heart pound like you're on a roller-coaster ride down Mount Everest.<br />Lord Brother by Carolyn Kephart is such a novel. It's a tremendous, virtuoso perormance of the writer's art that takes the reader to fantastic highs and lows, often within the span of a few paragraphs; it's brimful with inspiration, imagery, memorable characters, and crackling energy. It's a novel of nervewracking suspense, aching romance, heart-stopping beauty, and breathless terror...and the fact that it's only the author's second book makes it all the more impressive.<br />Lord Brother continues the adventures of Ryel Mirai, Adept of the sorcerous Arts of Markul, who is searching for a way to restore the \\"rai\\" or spirit of his mentor, Edris, to a physical body, and defeat the will and the minions of the daimon Dagar, who wish to plunge the World into evil. Ryel's quest, begun in the equally-impressive Wysard (see my review, he said in a shameless fit of self-promotion), leads him from his lonely tower in Markul to the Steppes home of his boyhood, to the magnificent city of Almancar, where he meets its ruler Priamnor, and Priam's sister Diara, whose daimon-induced madness Ryel heals. But a fight between Ryel and a Dagar-goaded Priam leads to the former being wounded, then healed by arch-enemy Michael Essern, Dagar's human protege. Wysard ends, and Lord Brother begins, with Ryel meeting Srin Yan Tai, a wysardess of great power, who gives Ryel information vital to his mission.<br />Lord Brother takes Ryel further in his travels, through the northen city of Hallagh, the grim wysard-enclave of Ormala, the home of Dame Gwynedd, a wysardess who keeps a dramatic secret -- and to Riana, the One True Immortal, whose tremendous impact on both Ryel and his story cannotbe overestimated. These places, and what goes on in them, make Lord Brother a feast for the mind -- there was not a momonent in reading it that I wasn't entranced, thrilled, or seduced by the power of Ryel's story, and by the force of Kephart's writing. Her gifts for descriptive prose and the surprising plot-twist serve her well, even better in some instances than in Wysard. Kephart's ability to surprise the reader is rare indeed, especially in a genre where too many writers seem content to follow the same worn-out footpaths, and to write the same old Tolkienesque prose. Kephart does neither of these; she is an original in almost every respect. As an example let me cite this wonderful moment just past Lord Brother's midpoint, where Ryel attempts to save another of his friends from Dagar's cruel depradations:<br />\\"He opened his eyes to the snow, and murmured a phrase. The white flakes began to fall thick, and a rising wind began to blow it about ever more violently, until in a minute's space the entire courtyard was engulfed in a raging storm. Amid the blizzard Ryel could only just discern staggering fleeing figures, and maddened horses. Upon and around the platform, battle reddened and trampled the fresh cold white into bloody slush. The air throbbed with shrieks and cries and sword-clangs, the howl of wind and hiss of storm-driven snow. But one noise rose above it. Out of the high balcony Dagar craned st full length, screaming in fury for Roskerrek's death...\\"<br />I'll leave you there to contemplate what may or may not come next. It certainly wasn't what I expected.<br />Lord Brother's flaws are few and far between. Again Kephart has populated her story with a multitude of characters, so many that it's hard to keep track of them all upon a first reading. A couple of times I had to page back to someone's first appearance to remind myself of who they were, and why they were there. Once I even had to refer to Wysard, the first book, for such information...but I never minded a little research now and then. Another area where I felt Lord Brother lacked was more specific: Ryel's dramatic confrontation with nemesis Michael Essern, which for my tatses wasn't as detailed as I'd have liked it to be. I felt Kephart gave that particular area of her story short shrift -- but it's the only such time I felt that way in reading either of her novels. <br />In other areas Kephart has made forward strides, like her treatment of female characters. They're far better written here than in Wysard. Riana in particular made a very strong impression on me, and Srin Yan Tai if anything was better as a character than before. Even Diara, who in Wysard seemed little more than a plaything, has been \\"fleshed out,\\" and Ryel's mother and sister were more than rough sketches of people this time.<br />All in all, Lord Brother was even more impressive to me than Wysard--a novel I was very impressed with in the first place. I wouldn't hesitate to reccommend it to any lover of the fantasy genre, or any lover of good writing for that matter. I also understand Ms. Kephart is writing another chapter in Ryel Mirai's adventures. When it's done, I'll be one of the first in line to buy it.	2002-07-04
US	48720238	RBR6DYFUGTT7K	1563151448	194602540	Wysard	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Dark, Mature, and Original	In reading fantasy novels, one becomes aware of certain patterns, certain shapes such tales take. Among them are the quest, the defense of a realm against an evil invader, and the fulfillment of a destiny or prophecy. The best novels are those which combine those elements, like Tolkien's Rings saga -- and the best of these break the molds, and recast them in new shapes; Peter S. Beagle's The Last Unicorn comes to mind, as does the work of Tim Powers. Add to them Wysard, the impressive first novel by the highly talented Carolyn Kephart. The familiar \\"plot-patterns\\" above are there for the reader to spot -- but rarely do they take familiar courses. Instead they take on unique forms, and in the process tell a tale that will enchant and delight any discerning reader of fantasy.<br />Wysard is the tale of Ryel Mirai, young Lord Adept of the otherworldly city of Markul. Ryel, like his fellow Adepts, is a practitioner of the sorcerer's Art. Kephart reveals, through the expert use of flashbacks, how Ryel was trained in both wysardry and swordcraft by Edris, his gruff but caring mentor. Scenes of Ryel's early life in a semi-barbaric Steppes village, and later of his inauspicious arrival at Markul, give the reader insight into the outwardly confident, inwardly uncertain man Ryel becomes. <br />As the narrative deepens, we learn that Edris has died under mysterious circumstances, and that Ryel, having practiced the \\"cruel Art of Elecambron\\" (a rival wysard-enclave), has become an Overreacher, a virtual outcast among his people. This Overreaching has turned his eyes a chilling, voidlike black -- even the whites -- and has left him open to the temptations of the powerful daimon, Dagar. It's Dagar who draws Ryel forth from Markul and into the World, where the young wysard must seek the truth about Dagar's intentions, Edris's death, and his own life. Along the way Ryel retuns to his Steppes home, and travels to the city of Almancar to heal its Sovrana, Diara, driven to madness byDagar. <br />The answers that await Ryel on his journey are surprising, and deepen the mysteries which surround him. Kephart has a flair for the unexpected, which she uses to trememndous effect throughout Wysard...and I wish I could cite an example or two, but I'd hate to spoil anything! Instead I'll say that several times I thought I knew where Kephart was heading -- only to find I was dead wrong. Any writer who can surprise me that often and well is, in my book, a genuine treasure.<br />Another area where Kephart excels is her descriptive, lush, sensual prose. Whether describing Almancar and its surroundings, Ryel's first impressions of Edris, or the dramatic scene whee young Ryel is struck by lightning, Kephart brings each moment to vibrant life, filling the reader's mind with the sights, sounds, and scents of Ryel's world. World-building is vital to any work of fantasy, and Kephart succeeeds admirably at it. Wysard's settings come alive; her description of the smells in Ryel's Steppes village, \\"the compacted miasma of meat seared by fire, of hot spices, horses, human sweat, the gritty reek of dust and smoke,\\" is just one of many vivid examples. <br />More problematic is the issue of character. Wysard is populated with a large cast, most of it minor supporting characters. It's hard on a first reading to keep track of their comings and goings (and, as in Wonderland, these people come and go with a most startling suddenness), though one can do so with a little extra effort. And while male characters such as Ryel, Edris, Diara's brother Priamnor, Ryel's rival Michael Essern, and especially Dagar, are well-defined and believable, I had trouble with some of the women in the novel. Diara, Ryel's mother Mira, and his sister Nelora, struck me as rough sketches in an unfinished painting, figures the artist neglected to flesh out. Diara in particular, important as she is, seems little more than a prop, a toy played with and then put away. More believable for me were Ryel'sArt-sisters, the Lady Serah and Srin Yan Tai. Both are key to the story, and both made a significant impact with me.   Perhaps the best female character was Belphira, encountered in Almancar's pleasure district, the Diamond Heaven, and whose brief but vital appearance is one of Wysard's most heartfelt and inspired moments.<br />And while I'm on the subject of the Diamond Heaven, now seems an appropriate moment to mention that Wysard is a dark, mature novel, meant for mature readers. Kephart doesn't shy away from scenes of violence and overt sexuality, and she's to be commended for her straightforward, adult attitude towards these subjects. She does not use them merely for the sake of thrill or titillation, but as moments vital to the narrative. This is the mark of a smart and confident writer, who knows how to achieve an effect without resorting to mere vulgarity -- save for the use of a certain four-letter-word, which I felt was anachronistic, jarring, and one of Wysard's few genuine flaws. <br />But the flaws are minor, at worst. Overall Wysard is one of the best fantasy novels I've read in some time -- and the best thing is that it ends with the tantalizing promise of more to come. Ryel's tale continues (and concludes) in a sequel, Lord Brother, which I've just begun reading; it promises to be even better than its predecessor. Kephart is without a doubt a major new voice in the field, and I hope you enjoy what she has to say as much as I did.	2002-05-30
US	48720238	REHITZU1PVBO0	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A Multilayered Masterpiece	This is another one of those cases where I'd like to give 4 1/2 stars; since I can't I've decided to err on the side of caution rather than exuberance, and award 4 stars to this great work of modern fantasy, which is almost -- but not quite -- perfect.<br />American Gods is a reinterpretation of the numerous myths and myth-figures of the Old World -- the Norse, African, Asian, Greek, and Egyptian pantheons, the pagan gods and faery-folk of the Celts and Picts, Nativa American spirit animials, and others.  Enough gods to fill a plenitude of Heavens...and Hells. The novel takes these beings and places them in an American context (hence the title!) -- the first of many juxtapositions which make the story as brilliant as it is...but I'm getting ahead of myself.<br />The actual tale centers on Shadow, a small-time ex-con of uncertain origin and less certain future, whose beloved wife perishes just as he is paroled. Drifting and heartbroken, he falls in with Mr. Wednesday, who hires Shadow to drive his car...and to do things much less beneficial for someone who's on parole. Wednesday, we soon learn, is none other than Odin, the Norse god, who is trying to organize all the Old World deities for a final, apocalyptic (what else?) battle against the gods of the New World: Television, Internet, and even undercover operatives of a shadowy Secret Agency straight out of The X-Files. It's this fight which is central to the novel...or is it? The more Shadow becomes involved with Wednesday's doings, the less certain he is of anything -- and by the time the novel reaches its stunning denouement, Shadow (and the reader) will understand that Wednesday's \\"holy war\\" isn't all it's cracked up to be. By then you will have been mightily entertained, amused, delighted, and horrified -- sometimes all at once -- by Gaiman's incredible tale.<br />That isn't hyperbole, either. Gaiman has written a superb novel here, superior in just about every way to 90% of the fantasy that's out there. Only Tim Powers, Blaylock, and possibly Terry Pratchett are doing better work...and if Gaiman keeps doing stuff like this, he may very well outstrip them all. American Gods is imaginative as hell, particularly in its depictions of the Old Gods who make up the central supporting cast. They aren't seen as gods, but as just another bunch of immigrants, working dead-end jobs and eking out a bare-bones existence, because their native and unique \\"skills\\" no longer serve them in America. So it is that they take whatever work they can -- waiting tables, pumping gas, even prostitution. A Russian god works for a Chicago slaughterhouse. Several of the Egyptian gods work in Cairo, Illinois (where else?) as undertakers -- such a brilliant concept, just thinking about it brings a smile to my face. There is also a leprchaun who makes an early appearance, and is a hilarious distillation of all the Irish myths which populate our collective consciousness -- the hard drinker, the bare-knuckles brawler, the quick-tempered, coarse-natured ruffian. Being of Irish descent myself, I found this particularly amusing, if only because it's at once so far from the truth, and so close to it. The guy might have stepped right off someone's Notre Dame jacket.<br />Another reason this book excels is because it works on so many different levels. On one level it is a mystery; on another it's dark fantasy; on yet another it retells one of the oldest myths, the god's death and rebirth, which crops up again and again in religions  the world over. Gaiman has done his homework here and then some, and it shows in the numerous myths and myth-figures which occupy this novel's background -- everything from urban myths, to tall tales, to local heroes, can be found here. Sometimes they are blazingly original and subtle, as in the case of the numerous \\"Home Of This Great Athlete\\" signs welcoming Shadow to practically every town he visits. Sometimes they're blazingly obvious; I figured out the deal with the \\"klunker\\" long before I think I was supposed to.<br />But that's one of the few flaws in a novel full of wonders and delights. Gaiman, a Briton by birth, writes American dialogue and characters with a facility that is scary. His prose is crisp, clean, and puts me in mind of Stephen King at his peak, imitating Harlan Ellison. Lines like \\"[He was] the same size and shape as a Coke machine\\" populate the pages, full of a descriptive wit which is rare in modern fiction. If you care about modern fantasy at all, then American Gods is for you. There are few novels in any field that I can reccommend more highly.g before I think I was supposed to. <br />But that's one of the few flaws in a novel full of wonders and delights. Gaiman, a Briton by birth, writes American dialogue and characters with a facility that is scary. His prose is crisp, clean, and puts me in mind of Stephen King at his peak, imitating Harlan Ellison. Lines like \\"[He was] the same size and shape as a Coke machine\\" populate the pages, full of a descriptive wit which is rare in modern fiction. If you care about modern fantasy at all, then American Gods is for you. There are few novels in any field that I can reccommend more highly.	2002-04-15
US	48720238	RGNYQZVBW42OK	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Mixed Bag of Tricks	Black House is, to paraphrase a line from an early Peter Straub novel, a great ghost story in which the ghost is underutilized. It's an impressive piece of writing, however, and one which I enjoyed a great deal. It works a little better as a stand-alone novel than as a sequel, oddly enough, and deals well and (for the most part) fairly with its characters and the reader.<br />The novel is the authors' sequel to The Talisman, and that is using the term &quot;sequel&quot; very freely indeed. Only two of the first novel's characters appear in Black House, Jack Sawyer being of course the primary one. And instead of ranging across the country and a couple of universes, Black House pretty much stays in one place...which may be the book's biggest flaw, but I'll get to that later. The story finds Jack Sawyer, young hero of The Talisman, now a young retired cop living in a Wisconsin town. A series of grotesque murders have taken place, committed by the book's nominal villain, the Fisherman. Judy Marshall, the mother of one victim, is going mad, and is doing some...ah, rather unusual things...with her tongue. And the whole thing is somehow connected to Jack Sawyer's Territories (which he barely remembers)...and to other, darker worlds, as well.<br />MINOR SPOILER: I would like to point out here that Black House belongs as much in King's Dark Tower cycle of novels, as it does in the Territories King and Straub created. Many King fans have wondered if the two worlds might indeed be one and the same. They aren't -- but neither are they very far apart, it seems. The authors do a very good job of connecting the two universes, and in the process they tell a good, though not a great story. They pull a lot of different tricks out of their collective bag, and while a good deal of it works, not all of it does. A few examples:<br />Perhaps searching for a way to apprroach their work from a new angle, Straub and King chose to write in the present tense, which I found enjoyable. King haswritten a few short stories in that style, but never an entire novel, and the results are...interesting. The collaborative work with Straub has a nice &quot;flavor&quot; to it, perhaps even better than their work in Talisman -- but there is also a lot of what's called &quot;author intrusion&quot;: lines that are too-sly asides, cutesy-clever remarks, and cajolings of the &quot;come, Constant Reader, and we shall go&quot; variety. This I did not enjoy a bit, because its overall effect was to put the story at one remove from Constant Reader (in this case, me). As a result I found the story lacking in any real heat. Events seemed muted, even when they were meant to be GOOD AND LOUD -- and the &quot;Constant Reader&quot; stuff, which wears very thin after the first fifty pages, was a big reason why.<br />Another flaw is the pacing -- when I said Black House stays in one place, I meant it! SPOILER ALERT: For all the talk of this being a Talisman sequel, there is very little of the Territories in it, and Travelling Jack Sawyer does most of his travelling on the back roads of Wisconsin. That's not to say that the setting isn't interesting, because it is -- but it's also one of the stock weird-little-small-town portraits both authors could paint in their sleep. In fact, it's my opinion that both the setting and a great deal of the characters are more Straub's than King's -- most if not all of them could have stepped straight out of Mystery, or the Wisconsin-set scenes in Koko. which makes things interesting, as the &quot;events&quot; in Black House (when things do happen) are pure King. The biggest problem is that the setting is a very sleepy one, which makes for a somewhat sleepy novel. And while there's a lot of talk about borderlands and slippage, the authors show us very little convincing evidence of either until very late in the game. As a friend of mine has said, there just wasn't enough of the Territories (the ghost I referred to above) in this one. <br />There are other, less severe problems -- minor characters who appear, seem about to contribute something major to the narrative, then disappear forever, other major characters who are given ignominious and gratuitous exits (even for a novel by King and/or Straub!), too-obvious name symbolism, a Boo Radley slimy-newsman type who quite frankly borders on caricature, the least believable biker gang since The Wild One...but these are, in the end, minor things. As a whole Black House has more on the ball than off, with moments of humor and horror, drama and wonder, what I thought was a very appropriate ending, with more than one mythical resonance, and that's pretty good -- even if the authors never do explain what the deal is with Judy Marshall's tongue. Oh, well -- maybe they'll do that in the NEXT sequel. Remain In Light -- Phrodoe.	2002-03-22
US	48720238	R1CWTQZEQB2XJE	0553269828	224417303	Sundiver (The Uplift Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Better Than I Remembered	I first encountered Sundiver years ago, and I recall that when I first read it I didn't think much of it. I almost didn't more on to the other novels in the Uplift saga because of this, but on a friend's reccommendation I did, and I'm glad of it. I hadn't read Sundiver in years, preferring to reread the other Uplift novels instead. Recently, though, I decided to give the first novel another chance -- and I'm glad I did that, too. I don't know if it's the benefit of hindsight or simply seeing Sundiver in the context of the other Uplift novels or both, but it turns out that Sundiver was better the second time around. <br />Sundiver's pages are spent in the company of Jacob Demwa, a special operative working in a more-or-less unofficial capacity for the Terragens Council. We first encounter him working with a newly-uplifted dolphin (uplift being the process of genetically enhancing a near-sentient species to full sentience) -- but he is called away from this job to join the Sundiver project, a  Mercury-based expedition to explore the sun -- and it turns out life has been discovered there. What follows are a series of mysteries, interspersed with Brin's vivid evocations of what it might be like to actually be inside a stellar atmosphere. Brin does a very good job all around -- as other reviewers have noted, his training as a physicist serves him well from a \\"hard science\\" viewpoint. His description of the sundiver ship is both poetic and believable, and he also does a great job with the mysteries Demwa must solve, which include: a murder, what the solar life forms may (or may not) be, why the \\"shepherds\\" of these life forms are so hostile towards the sundivers, and what the motivations of the various human and alien characters are.<br />Speaking of which, Brin does a great job with character in this novel. Jake Demwa, being the focus of the narrative, is the best-defined of them all, but others -- Dr. Shriver, for instance, and Kanten Fagin, are well-written and believable. But it is Jake Demwa who is the heart of Sundiver, and I wish Brin would do something more with him, another novel or a short story or something! Jake D. is equal parts special operative, private investigator, criminal, and psychological case history -- recovering from the death of his wife, he has hypnotized himself into a split personality -- the \\"normal\\" Demwa and \\"Mr. Hyde,\\" who contains all of Jake's antisocial tendencies, and who takes over from time to time in unpredictable and unsettling ways. Demwa is unusual and engaging, and it is largely because of him that Sundiver is such a great read.<br />Of course, Sundiver is the first part of Brin's ongoing Uplift series, and as such does a lot of establishing -- introducing aliens like the Kanten, and the Pila, and mentioning aliens that will grow to play major roles in later Uplift novels, like the Soro and the prankish Tymbrimi. Brin also introduces the Uplift concept here, and the esential dichotomy of the Uplift universe: Every sentient species in the Five Galaxies has been uplifted by a patron species -- or so it is believed until mankind comes along. Humanity is a so-called \\"wolfling\\" race, a race with no known patrons...or if those patrons do exist, they abandoned humanity millenna ago, and will not admit to the crime of client abandonment. Humans might have been adopted as someone else's clients -- but for the fact that they have uplifted clients of their own, chimpanzees and dolphins, with talk of dogs soon to follow (an intriguing thread Brin unfortunately never returns to). This automatically gives them the status of a patron race -- which angers the Soro, the Pila, and others no end. Much of the outcome of Sundiver, as well as the other Uplift novels, hinges on whether or not men will keep their patron status, or whether the Galactcs' political maneuvering will reduce them to client status.<br />A crowded universe is Brin's great concept here -- a univese literally stuffed end-to-end with speciesthat have existed for thousands of centuries...and in which humans may have no place, where our very existence as free people is in jeapoardy. Brin returns to this \\"free existence\\" theme in other guises in many of his novels, such as The Postman and Glory Season, but nowhere is it as crisp and as immediate as it is in Sundiver. It serves as a great introduction to the Uplift saga (currently at six books; it's unclear whether Brin will write more); but it also works very well indeed as a stand-alone novel of mystery and science, of one man and his mental health, and of humanity's place in the cosmos. I liked it better the second time around, and I give Sundiver four stars as a result.	2002-01-27
US	48720238	R3V1DPU358GXHA	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	98	107	N	N	Fortune and Fate	The Dead Zone is one of Stephen King's best novels, a tale rich in every way. It's well-told, with excellent characters, loaded with symbolism and shocking events (oftentimes both), and full of the plainspoken yet lyrical prose that is King at his best. There is little in King's long and excellent list of titles that can surpass this novel.<br />We'll start with the basic story. A young teacher named Johnny Smith is \\"gifted,\\" through a car accident that leaves him comatose for nearly five years, with a strange precognitive/telepathic ability. And here's the catch, evidence of King's genius if ever I've seen it: He has to be touching a person or object for the power to work. King takes this startlingly simple (and original) idea, and weaves it into the most complex, and intriguing, tapestry of his career.<br />King does a lot -- and I mean a LOT -- with this novel. Take the prologue, which so expertly sets mood, and tone, and character -- Johnny shows early flashes of his power, while the villain of the piece, Greg Stillson, kicks a dog to death in a dooryard outside Ames, Iowa. King literally takes you from one extreme to the other here, does so brilliantly, and continues to do so for the rest of the novel, as Johnny and Stillson are set on their inexorable collision course. But the novel is much more than that, as well. It's the story of Johnny and Sarah, who might've been his wife if not for intervening circumstances; it's the story of Johnny and his parents, Herb and Vera, a loving couple who find separate ways of dealing with Johnny's misfortune; it is the story of Johnny and the Chatsworths, a rich New England family whose son Johnny tutors ... and it is the story of Johnny and one Frank Dodd, a character as frightening as any King has created.<br />All the way through, of course, this is Johnny's story -- and in John Smith, King has outdone himself. Johnny, in just about every way you'd care to imagine, represents us, the average person -- the name alone is adead giveaway. (Some have said the symbolism of the name is crude -- absolutely not! King has always gone for the larger symbols along with more subtle ones.) His reactions are our reactions -- never made more clear than during the press conference at the hospital, where he looks on in abject horror at what his own power has done to a reporter there. It's a tense moment, in a novel full of them.<br />King deals in many levels of symbolism in The Dead Zone, symbols of fate, fortune, and God's will (the three being interchangeable in King's Calvinistic view); fortune wheels, omens, Vera's obsession with the more hysterical and relevatory aspects of Christianity (she could've stepped out of a Flannery O'Connor story), the seller of lightning rods (used, much as Bradbury used him, as a harbnger of doom), the mythical resonances of Cassandra and the abiguity of the Delphic Oracle, the Biblical references to Jonah as Johnny runs from himself, his power, and finally from fate and God -- again, interchangeable from King's point of view. There is also the brilliant use of the Jekyll/Hyde mask, one of the most elegant pieces of symbolism in the novel.<br />But let me get back to the Calvinist attitude here -- which I've mentioned a couple of times, and by which I don't mean conservative and/or repressed. Instead I refer to the Calvinist notion that everything that happens, even things like \\"luck\\" and \\"fortune,\\" is predetermined, willed by God. And though we as human beings have free will to defy or not defy our fates, the fact remains (as Mother Abigail pointed out in The Stand) that this is what God wants from us. That's the statement at the heart of The Dead Zone; it is what John Smith, King's reluctant hero (another powerful myth-figure) miust face at last, in what is one of King's most powerful novels. It is a cornerstone of an King library, and should definitely be in yours right now. Think of it as -- Fate.	2002-01-25
US	48720238	RXNIL7J3OZH91	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	88	96	N	N	Miller's Masterpiece	One of the problems with writing about a genre classic nearly fifteen years after its original release is that so many will have tried to surpass it since then (mostly unsuccessfully). Such is the case with Miller's Dark Knight Returns. In the wake of superior product like Alan Moore's The Killing Joke and From Hell, inferior product like McFarlane's insipid Spawn series, and middling product like Miller's own Sin City limiteds, it's hard to understand what a splash was made by The Dark Knight Returns on its original release. Even in light of Miller's work on classics like Ronin, Elektra: Assassin, and the great Wolverine limited series, Dark Knight was something special, something so dark and twisted and mature, it all but demanded that the rest of the genre mature toward its standard, and almost literally forced establishment critics to take the genre seriously at last. No small feat, especially when considering the character Miller chose to work with -- after all, Batman to most people meant Adam West hitting Cesar Romero with a resounding POW! Not exactly the best way to reenergize a medium, right?<br />Except Miller did it -- boy, did he ever. Dark Knight was and is one of the most powerful pieces of comic art it's ever been my privelege to own. From the Miller/Janson team's gritty illustrative style, expertly suited to the material, to Lynn Varley's exquisite sense of color and mood, to Miller's expertly-written story, Dark Knight is everything a graphic novel should be.<br />Take as just one for-instance the story: It's a brilliant reimagining and reinterpretation of the entire Batman mythos, bridging the gap between every era of the Masked Manhunter's long career, from the dark noir of the early days, through the &quot;Boy Scout&quot; period of the forties and fifties, and even a little of the &quot;science fiction&quot; and tv-era Batman (though thankfully not much of either), and on to the modern Darknight Detective period. Miller takes Bruce Wayne into his mid-fifties, retired but still troubled in his heart, and sets up a chain of circumstances which force Batman's emergence from that retirement, even as Jim Gordon is being forced out of his job, Two-Face is supposedly &quot;cured&quot; by self-aggrandizing doctors, and the deadly Mutant gang, a &quot;purer breed&quot; of criminal, practically owns the streets of Gotham. Miller ties all of these disparate elements together in unique ways, and weaves from them a story so enthralling, and so full of mythical echoes, that few have been able to equal it, even today.<br />As one example of the mythical resonances in Dark Knight, have a look at Miller's dramatic depiction of Batman's old pal Superman. Here the &quot;big blue schoolboy&quot; (as one of the characters hilariously describes him) is shown as Jerry Siegel and Joe Schuster always meant him to be: an earthbound god among mortals. One panel in particular is key to this image: Superman holding the tank up over his head (with the memorable caption, &quot;We must not remind them that giants walk the Earth.&quot;), a very dramatic (and very deliberate) redrawing of the cover of Action Comics #1. The panel is meant to remind us of the basic difference between DC's two primary exponents: Batman is a mere costumed crimefighter, but Superman is, well, Super, man! From Part 3 on, the conflict between the two characters seems inevitable, and promises to be spectacular. <br />Then there is the Batman himself -- and here Miller has done something so astounding it beggars description. For example, consider Bruce Wayne's intensely-rendered flashback to his parents' murder, done in a series of still-frame-like panels, with no dialogue, narration or sound effects, just the horrifying images: a finger tightening on a trigger, Thomas Wayne's huge hand falling away from his shocked son, the strand of pearls splitting apart as the gun is fired again -- this is a dark sort of visual poetry, so immediate and visceral it makes you understand at last just why Bruce Wayne was so damaged in those fleeting, horrifying moments. Similarly, the HUGE bat crashing through Bruce's window (symbolizing the futility of resisting destiny, the second coming of Batman, the spirit of &quot;the finest warrior, the purest survivor&quot; and about a half-dozen other things), takes Bob Kane's original idea and expands it once more into the realm of myth -- this is not just a bat but a Bat, the soul and spirit of someting bigger than Bruce Wayne, Gotham City, or even Superman himself. This is the stuff, as Alan Moore once noted, of legend.<br />There's so much else in this rich tale, from brilliant caricatures of David Letterman, Ronald Reagan, and Dr. Ruth (not to mention a totally undeserved slam at Harlan Ellison -- &quot;eating our babies for breakfast,&quot; indeed!), to Miller's brilliant reimagining of Robin (no longer a boy wonder but a girl wonder!), that 1000 words simply can't shower Dark Knight with enough praise. If you're a Bat-fan, this volume should definitely be in your collection. If not, it will make you see what you've been missing. In any event, what are you sitting around reading this for? You could be reading Dark Knight instead! Waste no more time!	2001-11-20
US	48720238	R3T0HJLOEYQZQM	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Absolutely Brilliant!	I just read Startide Rising for the second time, and again I was blown away by how fantastic it really is. This book is full of the ideas that make science fiction what it is: Interesting characters who have actual personalities instead of cookie-cutter mannerisms, a premise whose most intriguing elements are revealed slowly, pulling the reader along (I hate books that read like a bad made for tv movie!), and oh, about a hundred other things that make Startide a compulsively readable joy, more than worthy of the awards it has won (in spite of what Brin's detractors may say, they don't give Hugos and Nebulas to also-rans and bad writers).<br />The basic plot is this: The neo-dolphin-crewed Earthship, Streaker, has put down on the ocean world of Kithrup to make repairs. Streaker is being chased by a fractious, infighting consortium of galactics, who are after the potentially explosive cargo Streaker carries: possible evidence of the so-called Progenitors, who supposedly began the &quot;Uplift&quot; process which created all sapient beings in the known universe. (For those unfamiliar with Brin, Uplifting is the genetic engineering of presentient or near-sentient creatures, creating from basic root-stock intelligent, starfaring races. All starfaring races have uplift &quot;patrons&quot; -- except Terrans, which rankles the so-called galactics no end. For a more detailed explanation of all this, read the book!) <br />Kithrup is a hostile world; its seas contain heavy mineral salts which irritate the dolphins' skin. Worse, their situation is so tense that some of the dolphins are beginning to go primal -- that is, to revert to their wild state. It is up to Streaker's command crew, plus human assistants Gillian Baskin and Tom Orley, and chimpanzee scientist Charles Dart, to effect repairs on the ship, somehow escape the vast armada battling for the right to their cargo, and make it back to Earth. <br />That's the plot, and it seems kind of goofy on the face of it, doesn'tit? Nothing could be futher from the truth, in fact! David Brin is a writer of immense skill and artistry, and turns what could have been a farce in lesser hands into a grand, fantastic, idea-rich story, a space opera worthy of the name. Startide is complex, full of plots and subplots, motives and murder, humor and heroics, and I've rarely read a better book, in any genre, in my life. <br />As just one example, since my time is short and my space is limited, let me offer the character of Captain Creideiki, the dolphin leader of the Streaker crew. Creideiki is one of the most fascinating characters ever created in a science fiction novel. He is a strong leader, wise and brave, with a metaphysical bent that nevertheless does not interfere when practical matters need taking care of. He is as complex and well-rendered as any of the human characters in Startide -- such as the impressively-rendered Toshio, or the Terragens Council agent Tom Orley, on whose heroics everything hinges ... but back to Credeiki. It is his journey through the story that is the most compelling, and kept me flipping through page after page -- more than anything, almost more than Streaker's fate, I wanted to know what happened to Creideiki next! It is rare for me to care so much about the fate of a non-human character, and that Brin was able to pull this off speaks volumes for his abilities as a writer.<br />I could go on and on -- one of the problems with writing about Startide is that it's SO rich in events and ideas, that it's simply impossible to cover everything I want to cover. From the incredible secret of Kithrup to the secret hidden by a select few of the Streaker dolphins, Startide Rising contains surprise after astonishing surprise, and it is no less rich the second time around than it was the first. I have little doubt that in fifty years or so, Startide (as well as the rest of the Uplift Saga) will be mentioned in the same breath as the Foundation Series, the Rama series, and the Dunesaga. It's that good -- no, strike that. It's that great.<br />(Postscript: I've learned from Brin's home page that Startide has been optioned for a film adaptation! I can't imagine how anybody could pull that off without turning it into a glorified version of Flipper -- but even though I'm sure nothing good will come of it, I'm hoping whoever makes the attempt will prove me wrong. Remain In Light -- Phrodoe.)	2001-11-10
US	48720238	R3HPG8DRI8A629	0345444884	122553244	The Talisman	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Collision Of Worlds	Quick aside: Given that my reviews of Stephen King have, with few exceptions, met with displeasure, I've come to look at this as something like placing my head in a lion's mouth -- after the liberal application of ground beef. Yet here I am again; hope somebody brought a suture kit! Onward:<br />First off, it's great to see that Talisman has been reissued in such a handsome-looking package -- I like this jacket much better than the original Viking hardcover version, which did not capture the novel's spirit at all. I'm also becoming more and more intrigued by advance word on Talisman's upcoming sequel, Black House...but that's for another time. Right now I want to address the original, a collaboration between two markedly different authors, a &quot;collision of worlds&quot; that produced an unexpected classic of fantastic literature. The Talisman is a brilliant, glowing, fantasy/quest adventure which, in spite of a slow start and some odd turns here and there, succeeds on just about every level.<br />The plot can be summed up in a few sentences: Young Jack Sawyer must save the life of his dying mother by travelling to California and retrieving the Talisman. Also involved are his travels through an alternate reality called The Territories, a medieval world where magic reigns and people Jack knows on Earth have &quot;twinners&quot;. Lined up against Jack are the diabolical Morgan Sloat and his minions, such as the maniacal Sunlight Gardener and the demonic, shape-shifting Elroy. On Jack's side are guide and mentor Speedy Parker, Sloat's skeptical son Richard, and Wolf...more on whom in a minute. I just told the basic story in a few moments; King and Straub spin this up into over six hundred delightful pages. It is an epic coming-of-age journey, a strange and beautiful admixture of Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, Lord of the Rings, the Round Table's quest for the Holy Grail, and still has room for both Jason's quest for the Golden Fleece and the Christian idea of ressurrection and rebirth. Pretty impressive, eh?<br />The novel is full of King's immediacy and intimacy, as well as Straub's sensuality and more surrealistic tendencies -- note for instance Jack and Richard's journey through the Blasted Lands, which is a precursor for The Waste Lands in King's Dark Tower novel of the same name (see my review, he said shamelessly). The passages here read like King but have Straub's fingerprints all over them. Of course, I could be wrong; King and Straub both play with each other's styles and sensibilities so much in Talisman that playing who-wrote-what guessing games is silly. Even so, I still enjoy it, and I also enjoy the King/Straub collaborative &quot;voice&quot; very much, which is neither as cold nor as dull as some critics (not mentioning any names, like, say, HARLAN ELLISON) would have us believe. However, having said that, I will also say this: King rails against overuse of adverbs and the passive tense in On Writing, yet there are an overabundance of both in Talisman. However, someone who uses both as much as I should probably just shut the heck up -- so I will.<br />The story does move slowly at first -- sedate is perhaps the best word, and I think that's as it should be. Lord of the Rings didn't exactly get off to a slambang start either, and look at what Tolkien did with it. In any event, once you get into the story, the pages fly by. I just read the whole thing two weeks ago, and devoured it in about three days, just as I did when it was first released (gulp!) seventeen years ago. And although Jack's &quot;Road of Trials&quot; takes off on some odd tangents (such as the shootout at Camp Readiness, which is still too weird for me), it is still a great story, well-crafted, well-told, full of many interesting and amazing characters.<br />And that brings me to Wolf -- one of the finest characters either author has ever created. What a beautiful switch on every single werewolf cliche ever created, from Curt Siodmak to Robert Louis Stevenson. Just the idea that Wolf should be a good guy, let alone shepherd to a flock of Territories sheep (hysterically called &quot;creep&quot; by Jack), is such a brilliant conceit that it still floors me. What the authors then do with Wolf is even more impressive. Wolf is man's best friend on two legs; he's loyal, brave, fearless (sort of), fearsome, comic, and damn near steals the book away from its stalwart protagonist. Talisman achieves some of its finest (and funniest) moments in Wolf -- I can almost hear his snarly voice shouting &quot;Right here and now, God pound it! Wolf!&quot; as I write these lines, and I can't suppress a grin. Every kid should have a friend like Wolf...as long as they have a good strong padlock on them, that is. Heh heh heh.<br />Sorry. Anyway, The Talisman is a hard book to put down...in any sense of the phrase. I loved it then and love it now, and I can't wait to see what happens next, now that this chronicle of a boy has at last become the chronicle of a man. Remain in Light -- Phrodoe.	2001-08-31
US	48720238	R2SF5TKXKNG0QZ	0385199570	825352881	The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Do People Ever Learn Anything?	...A good question, and one which Stephen King doesn't quite answer in this masterful, frightening, breathtaking, beautiful -- yes, I said beautiful -- novel. I've read both the original edition and the uncut version; I prefer the uncut. Not for what has been restored so much as for what those restorations have done for the overall novel. The restorations of the cut sequences add immeasurably to The Stand, bringing light to places formerly shadowed, expanding the vistas to a breadth and depth that is truly astonishing. In my review of Wizard and Glass I mentioned King's lyricism; I'd like to write about that again here, because The Stand is brimming with that lyric style (which seems to have deserted King in his last few novels, Bag of Bones excepted). His line about the clock in the parlor ticking off &quot;segments of time in a dry age&quot;, and his evocative description of Kojak's journey to reunite with Glen Bateman are key examples of what I mean. When you read those lines and passages, they sing to you. Even the darker moments, such as Larry Underwood's harrowing jaunt through the Lincoln Tunnel, and Trashcan Man's mad, scary encounter with The Kid (who seems like a distillation of every early rock pioneer who ever scared your grandparents -- there's a lot of Jerry Lee Lewis in The Kid), vibrate and pulse with that plain yet elegant language which is King's true gift.<br />The plot of the novel itself borrows from a few different sources (the novel Earth Abides, The Bible, T. S. Eliot, the stories about the SLA and livestock-killing chemical-weapon spills which were then current in the news), and weaves them into a new fabric. A deadly strain of the flu is accidentally unleashed on the world, by a series of mishaps that Rube Goldberg would have been proud of -- only a handfull of people are immune, and while they stare in wonder and fear at what is happening around them, we are treated to such delights (if that's the word) as mass hysteria, suicide, execution, and government-ordained slaughter -- vis-a-vis King's retelling of the Kent State tragedy, which some saw as a cheap shot at Uncle Sam, but which I feel was totally appropriate to the story. The survivors begin having dreams -- some dream of an old woman in Nebraska, named Mother Abigail. Others dream predominantly of an otherworldly, frightening personage with no face -- Randall Flagg, the Dark Man, the Walkin Dude...his name is Legion, as one of the characters later points out. The dreams call the survivors -- the good ones to Boulder, the evil ones to Flagg in Las Vegas. And from there, King leads his characters into a battle between the forces of Dark and Light Magic as has rarely been seen in the realm of fantastic fiction. <br />The characters in The Stand are some of King's best; Stu Redman, Glen Bateman, Nick Andros, Tom Cullen, Lloyd Henried, the scarifying Trashcan Man, the Judaslike Harold Lauder and Nadine Cross...and of course King's finest creation to date, the deadly, destructive, Dionysian Randall Flagg. A word about the Walkin Dude: he's appeared in several of King's novels now, has come to be the villain of the Dark Tower series, and I would be hard put to find a character more evil, yet also more of a joy to read about, than Flagg. Like the Joker in the Batman comics, Flagg is a homicidal maniac -- but he's so damned happy about his work! There is a glee to him, a merriness that makes the character what he is. The sequence with Christopher Bradenton, is a great illustration of the Dark Man's wickedly funny menace -- ditto his first encounter with Henried in the Arizona jail. Flagg is fun -- but let's face it folks, he's also real scary. His &quot;wedding night&quot; with Nadine is the other side of his coin, and a more terrifying passage is hard to find in King's work. <br />The female characters though -- and this is typical of early King -- don't fare so well. With the exceptions of Frannie Goldsmith and Mother Abigail (more on her in a second), they all come off subordinate to the men. King even tries to rationalize this chauvanism at one point, and it makes someone of my postmodern sensibilities want to cringe. But this is a minor issue, and I won't take King to task for it. Much. The subject of Abby Freemantle is another matter. King here has created a female counterpart to Jack Halloran in The Shining, a mystical &quot;super-black&quot; character whose job it is to show whitey what to do, then get the hell out of the way -- not unlike J. C. in The Green Mile, Mike in It, and (to a lesser degree) Odetta/Detta in The Drawing of the Three. This is not perhaps an awful thing -- certainly others have done it before and since (cf The Legend of Bagger Vance), but neither is it very noble, despite what must have been King's best intentions. It isn't precisely demeaning, but it is condescending...and it's worth noting that one of the book's few other black characters, Rat-Man, is a stereotypical urban hood-type, whose Stepin Fetchit patois which makes you wonder how far we've really come. King himself has said that he writes well for neither blacks nor women, though he has made some inroads with respect to the latter -- see Rose Madder and Dolores Claiborne. Even so, his treatment of ethnicities and gender here is wince-inducing at times.<br />As to the question in the title above -- whose answer King  never really gives, and rightly so -- I will say this: Maybe we never do really learn anything. After you live long enough, you see people, communities, and nations repeat the same mistakes so many times that you begin to doubt humanity's intelligence. Santayanna said that those who ignore the past are doomed to repeat it -- and perhaps it will be required that God teach us a lesson as fearsome and unforgettable as the one in The Stand for us to ever accept Santayanna's thesis. I hope not. In the meantime there is King's tale of dark Christianity to do the job for us, to make us think about the consequences ofall we do, to warn us of the dangers of pride, and to remind us who the future is really for -- our children. And that is a lesson worth learning, indeed.	2001-06-05
US	48720238	R27AATVZE7GY4P	0962344737	467628410	The Essential Ellison: A 35-Year Retrospective	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Truly Dangerous Visions	When Harlan Ellison published Dangerous Visions and Again, Dangerous Visions way back in the mists of the previous century, the speculative fiction community was turned on its ear, not just once but several times. Awards and accolades were heaped upon the participants -- none more so than Harlan himself, who brought the whole thing together. When the promised final volume, The Last Dangerous Visions, failed to materialize for thirty years, accolades turned to puzzlement, accusation, invective, and anger -- almost all of it directed at Harlan, who may or may not be the proper target. I won't enter into that debate (much of it is pointless and silly, not to mention frequently absurd and childish). The only reason I bring up the whole DV mess at all is because, in rereading Essential Ellison, I find that while other writers may have produced stories worthy of inclusion in those volumes, it is Harlan himself who, for all these years, had had the truly dangerous visions. Consider the following stories, all included in this eye-opening retrospective:<br />* &quot;Lonelyache&quot; -- a dark, mysterious tale of a man at the end of his emotional rope, which wallops you like a chunk of slate;<br />* Punky and the Yale Men&quot; -- wherein a man tries to relive the violent days of his youth; one of Harlan's most underrated stories;<br />* &quot;A Prayer For No One's Enemy&quot; -- one of Harlan's most controversial tales, which puts not just anti-Semitism but all racism in its proper perspective;<br />* &quot;Neither Your Jenny Nor Mine&quot; -- a harrowing story of the days of illegal abortions, absolutely riveting;<br />* &quot;The Resurgence of Miss Ankle-Strap Wedgie&quot; -- Harlan's best-ever parable about the cannibalistic world of Hollywood;<br />* &quot;'Repent, Harlequin!' Said the Ticktockman&quot; -- Harlan's delightful, delicious ode to nonconformity;<br />* &quot;Jeffty Is Five&quot; -- wistful, haunting, and scary all at once, this story (like Bradbury's &quot;The Playground&quot;) shows that eternal youth is not all it's cracked up to be;<br />* &quot;Mom&quot; --Harlan could've talked Oedipus into leaving home;<br />* &quot;Alive and Well On a Friendless Voyage&quot; -- existential despair as only Harlan can render it;<br />* &quot;A Boy and His Dog&quot; -- I usually hate the post-apocalypse genre, but Harlan gets it right on this one;<br />* &quot;The Deathbird&quot; -- my all-time favorite Ellison story, bar none, a beautifully-constructed parable about God, the Devil, and Man's true place in the universe...<br />...and this list just barely scratches the surface! I haven't touched upon half of the great work in this retrospective -- such as Harlan's heartfelt, sometimes touching, oftimes scathing nonfiction and essays, or the samples of his wicked sense of humor, his brilliant screenwriting, and his absolute fearlessness and honesty in the face of every sort of mendacity and double-dealing one could imagine.<br />That said, there are some things missing from this book as well; my short list would include such gems as the brilliant &quot;The Beast Who Shouted Love At the Heart of the World,&quot; the chilling &quot;Croatoan,&quot; the hysterical &quot;From A to Z, In the Chocolate Alphabet&quot; and &quot;How's the Night Life On Cissalda?&quot; (my nominee for Harlan's funniest-ever story), the thought-provoking &quot;Hitler Painted Roses&quot; and &quot;Lonely Women Are the Vessels of Time&quot;, and one of my favorites, the haunting &quot;Demon With a Glass Hand&quot;. I understand an updated version of Essential Ellison s coming out soon (soon being relative when talking about Harlan and anthologies, natch), and that it will include some new things, like the stunning &quot;Mefisto In Onyx&quot;. I can only hope some of the above stories are included as well -- and while they're at it, here's hoping Harlan and Terry Dowling decide to drop &quot;The Man Who Was Heavily Into Revenge,&quot; which is my least-favorite of Harlan's works. It's full of the purple overwriting (some of it bordering on self-parody) which has marred so much of Ray Bradbury's latter-day stories. (Sorry, fellow Harlan fans, but I call 'em like I see 'em!) Harlan has said of Stephen King that King needs a good editor; reading &quot;Revenge&quot; makes me wonder if Unca Harlan shouldn't attend the mote in his own eye first.<br />That, however, is another subject for another time. (And it's a good thing Harlan eschews computers and the Internet, or I'd be getting one hell of an e-mail from him right about now!) The Essential Ellison is what I'm talking about here, and not only is it a great introduction to Harlan's immense body of classic work, it is also one of the finest collections of writing that any American author, living or dead, has ever produced. Only Mark Twain has written as well, as volubly, and on as many topics as Harlan, and only Twain was better...and I have a feeling that only Harlan will be missed as much, and celebrated as much, over the course of the next century as Twain was over the last. Enjoy him while you can, folks -- because writers like Harlan Ellison come along about once every hundred years, and their dangerous visions are not to be taken lightly.	2001-04-26
US	48720238	R3L4JYVV96V8BL	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	84	91	N	N	A Bold and Daring Departure	Question: Why on earth should Rice (or any author) be expected to limit herself to writing one type of novel, in one style, on one note? For that seems to be what the negative reviews here seem to be insisting she do. A sampling of these would turn up such words and phrases as &quot;it's boring,&quot; &quot;this isn't a vampire novel,&quot; &quot;this isn't Lestat,&quot; &quot;it's out of character,&quot; &quot;offensive,&quot; and many other such (let's be polite here) well-intentioned chidings...all of which sound rather put out, and many of which miss the point entirely.<br />First, let's take the notions that this isn't a vampire novel, that it isn't Lestat, and that his behavior is out of character, and dispense with them right off. One: It seems to me that this is a vampire novel, as it does have its share of vampires haunting the pages. Two: If you study the overall arc of Lestat's character, from Interview through to Memnoch, the overall effect is a softening of Lestat's hard, conscienceless demeanor -- The Tale of the Body Thief really brings this to the fore, in fact; read it again and see if I'm wrong. Memnoch's characterization of Lestat in my mind is perfectly in keeping with what's gone before. As to the idea that the characters do not act in keeping with their usual presentations in Rice's previous vampire novels, well, ask yourself this: If you met, in the span of a few hours, both God and Satan, and had your mind blown by both Heaven and Hell, AND had your entire belief system turned upside-rightside-inside-out, how rationally would YOU act? My guess is not very, and that was part of the point Rice was trying to make: we're far too comfortable in our various faiths, and that kind of complacency is very dangerous. We need to question more, Rice is saying. We need to ask hard questions -- even if we don't like the answers.<br />Which brings us nicely to addressing what a lot of people say about this novel: That it's offensive, that it portrays God asa bumbling incompetent and Lucifer as the wronged party...and worse, that he's attractive to boot. Well, let me just say this about that: This is a work of FICTION, folks. A novel. A big fat lie, told to amuse and amaze you in your unoccupied moments, nothing more. If you're offended by the notion of a fictional vampire sinking his teeth into the fictional neck of a fictional Christ on the cross (note that Lestat makes no appearances in the Bible!), then maybe your faith isn't as strong as you think it is. At the very least you need to get out more often. And so Memnoch is handsome, attractive and persuasive. So what? Isn't that what makes evil such a siren call -- that so much of the time it is attractive, tempting, seductive? Would Eve ever have been tempted if the serpent hadn't used honeyed words and gentle persuasion? Finally, God is not presented as a bumbler here so much as he is cold and indifferent to his own creation -- and haven't many of us suffered from that suspicion in our darkest moments? &quot;Where were you when I made the world?&quot; God asks Job when Job questions him -- in other words, I have a plan and you don't know the half of it, pal. The thought that God knows what he's doing, but doesn't trust us enough to let us know too, has driven plenty of people to question, even doubt, their own faith. (And I'll fill you in on a little secret, too. It's all right to question and doubt. I'm sure God has his doubts about us sometimes. It's when you let those doubts drive you from God that you become endangered.)<br />Okay, what's next? Is Memnoch boring? Well, maybe -- if you have the attention span of a gnat. (Thought I was going to be polite here; oh well...) If you go into this novel expecting typical Lestat-type adventures, you will be disappointed. If, however, you pry that cover open without any expectations other than reading a well-told, intelligently-thought-out tale, you may just be in for a treat. Yes, it is a tale that's been told before,notably by Milton in Paradise Lost (&quot;It is better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven&quot;), but Rice comes up with a few wrinkles even Milton never thought of. This is not your average chapter of the Vampire chronicles (thank goodness)...which brings me back around to my original question. If Rice had written a more typical Lestat adventure, I'd be willing to bet that the reviews on this page would be even more scathing: &quot;We've read this before! How about something new? It's the same thing over and over again!&quot; etc. It's easy -- far too easy -- to tell the same story over and over again, as witness the novels of Sidney Sheldon, Jackie Collins, and (God save us and preserve us) Barbara Cartland. Rice could make a comfortable living doing that -- but instead she comes at us (or at the very least tries to) with a different perspective nearly every time, with a different story to tell. This is how writers become better at the craft: they try new things, explore new ideas, stake out new territory in their lives and minds. This, by the way, is also how people expand their horizons, by leaving behind the old and familiar for the new and uncharted. I'm proud to say my horizons were expanded by Anne Rice's bold, daring departure from her usual fare, and hope for more of the same in the future.<br />P.S.: You want to read a really boring novel? Try something by Sheldon &amp; co. I guarantee a fast cure for insomnia. Remain In Light -- Phrodoe.	2001-04-24
US	48720238	R1JHHNG51ZVLN5	0451162145	603909342	Koko	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Living Ghosts	Actually the star rating should be 4 1/2, not 4, but Amazon won't let you give half stars. Quibbling aside, Koko is a brilliant novel by a brilliant author, a masterwork of horror, a terrific ghost story in which all the best ghosts are still alive. <br />Straub fooled a lot of people with this novel, most if not all of whom (myself included) were expecting a novel of the supernatural a la Ghost Story or Floating Dragon -- not, certainly, a long mystery about Vietnam Vets whose resolution is ambiguous at best. However, although there is little of the supernatural in Koko, there is a lot of haunting going on here, which is just as it should be, considering the subject matter. One of the big themes in Straub's work, from Julia on down, is that of the revenant, the ghost of the past which haunts the present. Those revenants can be paraphysical beings, such as Julia and Maxim's departed daughter in that novel, Anna/Alma/Eva/etc. in Ghost Story, the Collector in Shadowland, and the Dragon in Floating Dragon -- or, as in the case of more recent novels like Koko, Mystery, and The Throat, the revenants can be actual, living people. Of course the revenants are also metaphors for guilt in nearly every case, and never has that concept been as crisply delineated (or arrived at in as serpentine a manner) as it is in Koko. The Me Lai-type massacre which is one of the novel's central events is where most (if not all) of the characters' guilt springs from, and the past as well as the present Koko murders accounts for the rest of it. The four Vietnam vets, Michael Poole in particular, understand that all of them together created Koko, that they are responsible for his existence, and it is the guilt they feel (apart from Beans Beevers, who wouldn't know from guilt even if he had a Jewish mother) which is their primary motive for tracking him down and stopping him.  <br />Koko is also a novel about memory's persistence, about how it colors our perceptions whether we want it to or not.Straub's use of the elephant as a metaphor for this -- both as a physical presence and on the backs of the regimental playng cards or &quot;death cards&quot; Koko uses to mark his kills -- is a sure sign of what he's doing. After all, what animal is more associated with persistence of memory than the elephant? The fact that an elephant leads Poole to Tim Underhill is hardly surprising -- it is where the past (memory) and the present (perception) meet, and the moment vibrates with a curious otherworldly feel that even Straub has rarely achieved, and which is one of my favorite moments in the novel.<br />As regards the mystery of who Koko really is -- well, I have to concede that yes, it is fairly easy to figure out Koko's identity, especially once Underhill is revealed as the red herring you figure him for all along. I don't really think Straub was out to create all that much mystery about Koko; having read the novel a number of times now, I've come to the conclusion that this really was not the point. The point was instead to illustrate the twin theses above: how guilt and the persistence of memory can color, and most times ruin, one's life. This, Straub seems to be arguing, is what ghosts do, whether one is talking about the pale specters of the dead or the pale specters of one's memories. They haunt us, not because they hate us, but because we so often hate ourselves for the things we have done. And Koko is a novel full of ghosts, both living and otherwise -- Poole's dead child is parallelled by the dying little girl he visits at the hospital; Conor Linklater loses a job to a man who strongly resembles Victor Spitalny; Tim Underhill haunts the first half of the narrative very strongly,  and is himself haunted by the ghosts of his own past; Beevers, though he would never admit it to himself, is haunted by the ghosts of his own inadequacies as the Lieutenant of their Vietnam combat unit; Agent Orange haunts all of them, for it may well be responsible for so much ofthe evil which has befallen them (cancers, madness, and death). Then there is Koko...the ghost of the killers all of them, even the best of them, once were, the ghost none of them can ever escape -- and which some of them don't even want to escape. That the novel ends so ambiguously should hardly be a surprise -- most of us never escape the ghosts of our pasts, and one gets the feeling that the survivors of this story will be haunted by Koko for a long time to come.<br />Koko is a rich novel, as full of symbolism and literary allusions as most of Straub's work. It is also a long novel, which does tend to wander from time to time. However, if you are patient and willing to follow Straub on this long journey into the heart of darkness, the rewards will be ample indeed. Just don't expect The Collector to come popping out of the mirrors -- because the best ghosts in this ghost story live in the heart and mind, not in the mirror.	2001-03-29
US	48720238	R3HI7E6WQ12TFU	0930289218	752643683	Frank Miller's Ronin	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An Underappreciated Classic	Back in the days when I was collecting comics, when Marvel was a name that still meant something, Jack &quot;King&quot; Kirby was still alive (yes, I'm that old), and the X-Men title was still just a metaphor and not a marketing frenzy, I remember certain names to whom one could look for consistent, intelligent, meaningful, quality work. Some of those names: Chris Claremont, John Byrne, Alan Moore, Berni Wrightson, Kirby, and perhaps the best of them, Frank Miller. In much the same way as Moore's Watchmen did, Miller's The Dark Knight Returns took established ideas (and in Miller's case, established characters), then deconstructed them and put them together in completely new ways. Miller gained a lot of renown for Dark Knight...but before that there was Ronin, which established the already-respected writer/artist as a force to be truly reckoned with.<br />Ronin, at first glance, is a science-fiction/fantasy tale of magic, demons, masterless samurai, artificial intelligence, and biotechnology...but first glances, especially where Miller's work is concerned, can fool you. Once you learn to look past the surface (and the fact that there is anything beyond the surface is itself a major triumph in comic art), you find in Ronin a story of incredible richness and subtlety, full of wicked humor, three-dimensional characters, and action scenes so intelligently, sensitively delineated they are breathtaking. The story itself is as full of twists and turns as the best science-fiction novels; it takes the overused &quot;mad computer&quot; concept and runs with it, ringing some fascinating changes with it at almost every step of the way. All of this is so far beyond even Miller's own highly mature work on Daredevil and Elektra:Assassin, that it is unsurprising to me that it is not to some readers' tastes -- readers of the type who want their comics to be ice cream instead of a gourmet meal, if you ask me.<br />Ronin succeeds on many levels, starting with the artwork. Miller is well-known for his fascination with the two very different worlds of hard-boiled crime stories a la Raymond Chandler, and of the Japanese middle ages (the era of warlords, samurai, and ronin); this work is one of his earliest attempts to fuse those  worlds together. The results are incredible, from the dirty, rubble-strewn street scenes and overhead city drawings beclouded with smog, to the abovementioned action sequences of Miller's nameless Ronin in action; the fighting is so cleanly rendered, the participants become, in Miller's own words, &quot;human motion lines&quot;, and the effect is memorable; I can sit here and recall any of dozens of panels in Ronin which are prime examples of what I mean. One of the best sequences is that of the Ronin and Casey McKenna doing battle with Agat's minions in the snow; the moment is worthy of Akira Kurosawa's samurai epics.<br />Then there are the characters. Miller has never subscribed to the notion of comic characters being, in the memorable words of Alan Moore, &quot;muscle-bound oafs uttering muscle-bound dialogue while attempting to dismember one another&quot;. Perhaps nowhere in Miller's work is that ethic as strongly embodied as it is by one character in particular, of Security Chief Casey McKenna. Casey is an intelligent, adult human being, full of faults and foibles like all real people. Her relationship with her husband, in fact, is very telling. The very adult moments between them, even as sensitively handled as they were, caused a sensation -- nobody in comics had ever dealt in such mature notions, and it was galvanizing. Casey's relationship with the Ronin, misleading as it is at first, is also handled in an extremely mature and intelligent fashion -- particularly the moment when Casey realizes that in order for the madness to end, she has to &quot;break the myth&quot;.  Miller has a gift for character, as well as for dialogue -- that cannot be understated. It is one of the main reasons his work succeeds where thatof so many other so-called &quot;auteurs&quot; in the field (Todd McFarlane springs immediately to mind) fails miserably. <br />One final aspect of Ronin I'd like to mention is its ambiguity, its refusal to be simplistic and one-dimensional. Miller knows that good and evil are highly subjective terms, and refuses to make judgments or paint simple pictures. Characters who at first glance seem evil, become good; other characters who are at first shown as good are later revealed as something else entirely. Others sit on the fence for almost the entire story, and their true natures are not revealed until the endgame. More than anything else, this indicates that Miller is working on a completely different level from most of his contemporaries, and it is a huge reason Ronin works as well as it does. The story ends on such an uncertain, haunting note, it will stay with you for a long time to come. This so-called &quot;lack of resolution&quot; has led some to say Miller's story was muddled -- wrong. It was very well-thought-out...think about it: How many things in your life ever ended with the clarity of a movie or comic book? Miller's awareness of this makes the end of Ronin extremely powerful. You draw your own conclusions, make up your own ending based on what he's already told you, use your imagination rather than let Miller imagine everything for you. For that reason alone, Ronin is far more than a comic book; it is indeed a graphic novel, and I use the word novel here in its best sense, as I would use it to describe a work of prose. Mille and Ronin are both that good.	2001-03-29
US	48720238	R38EH077LJSXHX	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	27	34	N	N	A Rare Accomplishment In the Genre	NOTE: I wrote a review of this novel a couple of months ago, but it was never posted. I won't speculate on the reason or reasons why (although I have my suspicions), but I promise to be a good little Phrodoe this time out. Onward:<br />  Snow Crash is an astonishing, clever, funny, suspenseful work of the imagination. I've read a couple of Neal Stephenson's books (Cryptonomicon and The Diamoind Age, both of which I highly reccommend), and I still think this is his best novel. In Snow Crash, a part-time hacker, information-scrounge, and delivery boy for Uncle Enzo's Cosa Nostra Pizzerias, and full-time Metaverse (virtual reality) samurai named Hiro Protagonist (one of the best names since Billy Pilgrim!), is slowly drawn into a mystery involving a virus program called Snow Crash, which is claiming not only the computers but the minds on hackers the world over, including Hiro's best friend. Who is behind all this, and what it has to do with Sumerian mythology and the hard-wiring of the human language centers is what Hiro must find out, while at the same time he attempts to prevent the further spread of the Snow Crash virus. Along the way he falls in with a skateboard punk named Y.T., who is more instrumental to the story than might first be suggested, and who is the novel's most intriguing character, if only because her investigations are almost more revealing than Hiro's are -- in fact, Hiro comes off as a bit of a cypher compared to her. But I digress. All of these events take place in Stephenson's richly- imagined near-future, where the American government has become a tight-sphinctered, half-failed corporation, while corporations have become governments, and a multimedia mogul has cobbled together a vast fleet of refugee boats from various countries, in the most questionable act of philanthropy since Ted Turner tried to buy the UN. There are also gated communities that are not just gated but practically self-contained universes. And then there is the Metaverse...Stephenson's delightful extrapolation of the Internet, where you can be anyone you want to be, whether that person is yourself or someone else, within reasonable limits of course. The Metaverse is also as overloaded with advertising as the 'net is, and it was Stephenson's clever description of M.V. ads that really hooked me on this book for good (not that I needed much more persuasion at that point). The Metaverse, and the weird, wired world which surrounds it, are both so enthrallingly, memorably...I was going to say realistically, but perhaps a better term would be surrealistically, rendered, that reading about it is one of the novel's high points. Every moment of Snow Crash, practically, is full of mystery, intrigue, brightly-drawn (for the most part) characters, and humor. Oh, didn't I mention that Stephenson is a bloody riot to read? The man is a futurist-humorist-satirist of the first caliber...I would say worthy of Vonnegut, but that's pretty lofty company, and probably not entirely accurate. yet Stephenson comes darned close, and he, along with Kurt Vonnegut, Mark Twain, and Douglas Adams, is one of the few authors who can make me laugh right out loud, so mordantly witty is his stuff. But Stephenson is also more than a wit, as the clever premise behind Snow Crash suggests. His concept, that human consciousness and language concepts are as programmable as any computer, is as intelligently-reasoned as any science-fiction concept I've ever come across, and one which would later be revisited, reexplored, and expanded upon by Greg Bear in Darwin's Radio (see my review, he said in a shameless plug), although Bear added some wrinkles even Stephenson didn't think of. And in linking his concept back to both the Biblical story of the Tower of Babel, and to the Babylonian creation myth Enuma Elish, Stephenson creates a tapestry of invention that few writers in my experience have been able to equal, all told elegantly in Stephenson's supple, muscular prose. And if none of what I've written here convinces you to pick up Snow Crash, maybe this will: There is a tendency in science-fiction for writers to create improbable post-apocalypse dystopias (i.e., The Matrix, Mad Max, or any one of a hundred bad stories written by good writers -- even the great Harlan Ellison has written his share), and in my opinion such stories are not only ill-conceived but also a cheat. It's easy to imagine a post-apocalyptic world (where there seems to be all the gasoline, computer time, and electric energy available, no matter how wretched the rest of the world has become) -- in fact, it's too easy, which is part of the problem. Show me instead a far more difficult feat...instead of a blue-sky approximation of the post-apocalypse, show me how the world is GOING to end. That is what Vonnegut has done time and again (cf. &quot;Harrison Bergeron&quot; and the novel Slaughterhouse Five), and that is pretty much what Stephenson is doing with Snow Crash. He isn't worried about the post-apocalypse...but rather, about the aptly-named Infocalypse which may be happening all around us even now, right under our noses. And that, above all else, is why I love Snow Crash so much. It is rare, unique, and a thrill to read, and I would reccommend it without reservation to anybody.	2001-01-27
US	48720238	R36SS8A2RM3AU6	0425097269	612750828	Shadowland	Books	5	0	3	N	N	OOPS!!	I goofed! In my original review, I made references to a character named &quot;Spider&quot; -- who does not exist in the novel! You'd think someone who'd read the bloody thing as many times as I have would know better! Oh well...<br />The character I meant to name was, of course, Skeleton Ridpath, son of the school's football coach, the &quot;heavy&quot; of the piece and a major character. I called him &quot;Spider&quot; because...well, never mind. You'll find out on your own. My apologies for any grievous mental confusion I might have caused.	2001-01-18
US	48720238	R1DDXQUUBS9GD3	0425097269	380179427	Shadowland	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The Key To The Treasure	Peter Straub's Shadowland is one of the pinnacles of the horror/ fantasy genre, a symbolic, unsettling, expertly-written journey into the country of magic, a coming-of-age story that surprises,  enlightens, and terrifies -- sometimes all at once. It follows the journey of two boys, Tom Flanagan and Del Nightingale, first in their experiences at school, discovering that magic is far more than the art of illusion...and then their travails at the house of Del's uncle, the legendary (and dangerous) Coleman Collins, aka Herbie Butter. Much of the story is revealed in flashback form, and sometimes in flashbacks within flashbacks, a literary device Straub loves to employ, and uses to great effect here, choosing just the right moment to provide a little illumination, a little atmosphere, or a little terror. As I noted above, the story is about magic (magic here being symbolic of manhood to Straub's young protagonists), about its discovery and its uses...as well as its perversions. Indeed the entire novel is largely a work of symbolism and allegory, echoing the fairy tales of the Brothers Grimm (who even make an appearance in the story) and, to a lesser degree, Hans Christian Anderssen. Straub loves to drop such literary allusions all over his novels, and in Shadowland he does it very well indeed, using his mythic backgrounds to echo and inform the story, providing color and shading much as a painter does. Often a fairy tale that has just been related will happen again as part of Tom's experiences, or the opposite will happen; sometimes the fairy tales are part of a tableau, staged by Coleman Collins for Tom and Del's benefit. Sometimes they become literal events, as they do in the case of Rose, about whom I will reveal nothing save to say that the revelation of who (or what) she really is will shock you down to your toes. This is a novel, as I also said, about comings-of-age and awakenings, both sexual and otherwise, with magic used as metaphor for this to a large degree (the sequences where Tom lifts the tree and flies being key examples of what I mean; his exhaustion afterwards is almost a sexual one), though there is a true sexual awakening for Tom in Shadowland that is just as telling in its way, and just as revealing about Rose's character, as all of the allegorical goings-on that I've been going on about (at some length) above. It is a dangerous moment for both of them, and Straub pulls it off beautifully, missing not a beat as he relates what could have been a clumsy passage in other hands. And speaking of danger, the villains in the story, from the enigmatic and menacing Collins to the troll-like Wandering Boys, to the ugly and utterly evil character of Spider (surely one of the best villans in all of fantastic literature) are portrayed to perfection, adding not just menace to the story but outright moments of terror; there are also three encounters with a mysterious character known only as M., whose confrontations with Tom echo certain elements of the New Testament, and which give the reader one of the clearest indications where Straub is going. Of course it's also worth noting that not all of the story is quite so serious and grim; there are moments of fine, if twisted, humor, as there are in all of Straub's novels. In one memorable sequence, during a hallucinatory magical revue put on by Collins in his Herbie Butter incarnation, Del and Tom meet up with Bugs Bunny, Jesus, and the Apostles (who sing a rousing rendition of -- of all things -- &quot;Fish For Supper&quot;!), all within a few pages. I could go on and on -- I haven't even touched on the novel's more hallucinatory aspects, or the wonderful depiction of life at a boys' school in the novel's early stages, surely one of the best, most realistic descriptions of such an experience I've ever read. There is also Collins' amazing tale of his days as a surgeon in World War I, and how he discovered magic under the tutelage of Speckle John, which will amaze and startle you as much as anything in the book. To sum up, Shadowland is essential reading for anyone interested in the horror/fantasy genre. I read it as a teeneager, and as I've grown older it's gained more and more resonance with each successive reading; I have no doubt that it'll do the same for you.	2001-01-06
US	48720238	R3INP208UXU7N6	0441004016	561680837	The Anubis Gates (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Seamless	Tim Powers is, to put it plainly, the best fantasist working in the genre. Period. One read of The Anubis Gates will prove it to anybody's satisfaction; I know it's done so for me. My God, what a book. Simply the ideas of time travel and dopplegangers that Powers puts forth here (not to mention his teriffic eye for Victorian Period detail, and his brilliant, believable characterizations of notable figures of the time) are a delight. Unfortunately, I can't talk too much about the plot without giving it away and ruining the immense pleasure reading this book for the first time will give you. I can speak in generalizations, however -- such as the manner in which Powers' protagonist becomes unstuck in time, which is so pedantic as to be wholly believable; or Powers' expert pacing and timing, which help the novel to tick away like Swiss clockwork; Powers' delicious sense of atmosphere and mood, which add to the Victorian setting just the right flavor of danger and eerie magic bubbling just under the surface of things; Powers' understanding that human beings are frail creatures, especially in the time period he's writing about (when his characters get hurt, man, they HURT!); Powers' impeccable plotting. And it is this last, most of all, that makes The Anubis Gates what it is -- for as fans of the fantasy and science fiction genres know, time travel is very difficult to write about effectively, and only the very talented can make even a conditional success of the job. Powers is one of the best -- rather than leave behind all manner of loose ends and creating more paradox than closure with his story, Powers instead makes sure that everything is tied up by the novel's last line. Everything that happens in Anubis Gates happens for a reason, and nothing, not a moment, is wasted on unnecessary business. Not only is the book's ending completely seamless, it is also a total surprise: you'll think you know what's about to happen, but Powers will (I guarantee) pull the rug right out from under you. The only other artists I know of who were so compltetely able to fool their audience were Cornell Woolrich, Ira Levin, and Alfred Hitchcock; Powers is every bit as good. The Anubis Gates, by reason of its brilliantly-imagined world and Powers' strong, effective characters and plot, is one of the greatest fantasy (or science-fantasy, or whatever the hell you want to call it) novels I've ever read. If you care at all about the genre, you MUST read, not only this book, but everything else by Powers that you can lay your hands on. You owe it to yourself -- and to Tim Powers as well, because as far as I'm concerned he doesn't get anywhere near the recognition he deserves.	2001-01-04
US	48720238	RNBKZTC18HB84	1565049640	391318106	The City on the Edge of Forever: The Original Teleplay that Became the Classic Star Trek Episode	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Harlan Sets the Record Straight	I have been a fan of Harlan's for years (what he thinks of me I have no idea, and probably shouldn't ask), so I'm extremely familiar with his irritation over the treatment of 'City' -- his entirely justifiable irritation, by the way. Ask yourself how you would feel, seeing something you'd worked very hard on and were extremely proud of...only to be told that it was no good, and that significant portions of it would have to be changed? Worse, how would you react if those changes made your work significantly inferior to the original? And worse yet, what do you think your reaction would be if the one who'd commissioned those changes to begin with, then started blaming the inferiority of the work on you, publicly, again and again, despite all your attempts to set the record straight? For that is what happened to Harlan, year in and year out, as Gene Roddenberry first mangled Harlan's work, then maligned not only his ability but his credibility. Roddenberry, frankly, was lucky Ellison didn't slap him with a defamation lawsuit years ago. As it was, Harlan was kind enough, after a certain point, to not reenter the debate while Gene was still alive. I'm amused at certain reviewers in this section who seem to think that Harlan is denigrating the Great Bird's good name in his 'Perils of the City' essay -- believe me, while Gene was no doubt a nice guy and loved by family and friends, his 'good name' in the industry was nonexistent. (His antics during the writing of Trek: The Motion Picture used up almost all of his goodwill in Hollywood for years. Ask Alan Dean Foster and Harold Livingston if you don't believe me. But I digress.) I'm also amused at those who think that Harlan is whining, too bitter, too full of invective and name-calling to present himself effectively. In the immortal words of Red Skelton, you don't know him very well, do ya folks? I've read a lot, and I mean a lot, of Harlan's work, and believe you me, 'Perils of the City' is mild compared to some of his harshest stuff! Don't believe me? Then you must never have read The Glass Teat or The Other Glass Teat -- which Stephen King compared to &quot;one of those...four-hour rants delivered by Fidel Castro&quot;. You want bitterness? Read his narrative about what happened to The Starlost ('Face Down In Gloria Swanson's Swimming Pool'). You want invective? Try Harlan's vicious attack on Frank Herbert and Dune (which I personally disagree with). Harlan is being a pussycat in 'Perils' -- trying to set the record straight. He is not insulting to everybody, and he even has nice things to say about a few people. (Mostly those who take his side, but so what? Again, what would you do?) And, more importantly, Harlan makes several good points in 'Perils', the most important being that he was trying to present the Trek characters as people, not as ivory-tower ideals of what people should be. Honestly now, have you ever in your life met somebody as noble, as downright saintly in his self-sacrifice, as Kirk is made out to be in the filmed version of 'City'? Which brings me to Harlan's original script, and how it compares to the finished product. Well, kids, there's simply no comparison. Harlan's original is heartfelt, intelligently-reasoned, presenting Kirk with an actual choice to make, instead of (as the filmed show does) making the choice for him. Spock is presented at his most truly alien, his most coldly logical -- and yet at the end shows he does indeed have a human side. The character of Beckwith? A distillation of evil, pure and simple, and with the right actor to play him, he could have been a memorable part of the show. The character of Trooper? Beautiful, possibly Harlan's best moment in his entire career of writing for television.The space pirates? Blame Roddenberry. The unnecessary inclusion of McCoy, a supposedly-responsible ship's surgeon, accidentally injecting himself with a dangerous drug? Blame -- well, I'll let you find that out on your own. I don't think Harlan was half so surprised by it as I was! The knowledge of who made what changes matters little, in the end -- the fact remains that the original 'City' teleplay not only leaves the finished version in the dust, it makes that version look like the work of first-year creative writing students, working from a Syd Field screenplay model. It has little of Harlan's intelligence, none of his wit, and only the smallest amount of his heart. Honestly, I'm surprised he didn't use his Cordwainer Bird alias for this one -- because if anything was ever a shoe made for a bird, the filmed version of 'City' is it. So thank you, Harlan, for setting the record straight, finally, and for giving us a rare glimpse at how good Star Trek could have been, if only the Great Bird could've kept his grubby wings off it.	2000-12-28
US	48720238	R4CNOMQ60EWVP	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	4	8	10	N	N	One of Bear's Best Yet!	I have been a fan of Greg Bear's for several years now, and whether he's writing epic, grand-scale science fiction (Foundation and Chaos, Eon, Eternity, Moving Mars), or deep character drama tinged with hard s-f concepts (Slant, Darwin's Radio), I am always entranced by his ideas and enthralled by the way he executes them. Darwin's Radio is no exception. While it is not as gripping as Slant nor as magnificent in scope as Moving Mars, Darwin's Radio is still prime Bear. His fascinating idea, that viruses exist encoded in human DNA, and trigger evolutionary changes, has of course been approached before (notably by Neal Stephenson in Snow Crash -- see my review), but Bear takes an entirely fresh approach, linking his virus to racism, fascism, and to the horrific examples of ethnic cleansing that keep cropping up in central and eastern europe. Humanity, the most basic paradigm of what it is to be human, is changing, Bear suggests in this novel -- and as always, the new and different frightens those who don't understand it. Bear's depiction of an aftermath of a village's massacre in the early goings is a sure sign, not only of where he is going, but that he has a sure grasp of what he wants to say and how he is going to say it. He carefully sets up a marvelous set of ambiguities with this early scene; we are in immediate sympathy with the victims of the killing, as we have been taught to be all our lives. But, as the narrative progresses and we learn why these poor souls were murdered, and why the emergence of the Sheva virus has thrown the world into fearful chaos, we grow more and more uncomfortable. What if, we think, this were happening to us, or to someone we know? Would we want to risk our health, and the growing enmity of our friends, neighbors and family, for a Sheva pregnancy? How fearful would we become about the product of such a birth? Would we, in the end, want such births to happen, if it meant the end of what it means to be human right now? How willing arewe to look to the future, rather than to think only of the short term? These are hard questions to ask of oneself, and they become harder to answer as the book goes on -- and therein lies Bear's triumph. For while I sympathized with the protagonists, running from a supposedly benevolent government which, as it reacts in fear instead of acting in hope, becomes more and more of a police state -- nevertheless, I found I was also able to understand the point of view of the hunters as well. Again, ask yourself: What would you do, if faced with the ultimate end of everything you knew, and were given what you saw as the slimmest hope possible, that this destruction would lead to a newer, better definition of humanity. Could you make that leap of faith? I have been trying to answer that question for weeks, and that fact that I'm still thinking about it, while other recently-read books have faded from my memory, indicate that Darwin's Radio is going to hold a special place in my collection for a long time to come.	2000-12-23
US	48720238	R2WKHLDHEMH3QC	0452279178	511631376	Wizard and Glass (Dark Tower) (Vol IV)	Books	5	46	53	N	N	It Just Gets Better and Better	Wizard and Glass is not only the best book in the Dark Tower series, it may well be the best Stephen King book I've ever read. It is grand, operatic, vivid, a story worthy of Tolkien, throbbing with atmosphere, and aching with the shattered soul and broken heart of the story's principal character, Roland Deschain, the last Gunslinger. This tale of first love, and that love's tragic loss, forms the centerpiece of the novel, which begins where The Waste Lands left off, with Roland and co. trapped on Blaine (the Pain), engaged in a riddling contest (shades of Bilbo and Gollum!) for their very lives. They defeat Blaine (how I won't say, but it's a moment that beats hell out of every time Captain Kirk ever overloaded a mad computer), and soon discover they've somehow jumped dimensions (another side effect of the Tower's failing), and have wound up in the world . of The Stand -- a moment so chilling I got goosepimples. Really! Of course, given that rambunctious Randy Flagg has now become the villain of this piece, this bit of dimension switching should hardly come as a surprise -- but it's nevertheless fascinating. Roland and co. travel on in this deserted world, finding evidence of both Mother Abigail and the Dark Man (as well as the Crimson King from Insomnia), and soon encounter a &quot;thinny&quot; -- a warp between dimensions that is like a mosquito with a thousand-watt amplifier buzzing in one's ear. This triggers in Roland a flashback -- and most of the next 550 pages are spent in the days of Roland's youth, just after he defeated Cort. He is sent by his father -- along with companions Cuthbert and Alain -- to the sleepy sea community of Mejis. Here they discover the conspiracies of John Farson (aka the Good Man, aka Marten Broadcloak, aka Richard Fannin, aka Randall Flagg) are hard at work, involving the theft of oil from a still (though barley) working refinery, which Farson intends to refine for use as gasoline, and, possibly, napalm. While evidence of this is slowly being uncovered, Roland meets Susan, the horse-drover's daughter alluded to in the first Dark Tower book, who is betrothed to the greedy mayor, Thorin (also the name of the greedy Dwarf in The Hobbit!). There begins between Susan and Roland a forbidden love. Much more happens, involving Farson's lackies, Susan's half-crazed aunt, and Rhea, the witch of the Coos, who holds in her hand an all-seeing crystal ball which is consuming her from the inside out...but it is the love between Susan and Roland which is the soul of this book. Every moment of it is sweetly, adoringly, even frighteningly realistic -- such as the moment when Roland kisses her with such force, her mouth bleeds, or Susan's mingled fear and excitement, even arousal, at being in such a precarious situation, or the jealousy and impatience of Cuthbert and Alain, who have Farson more on their minds (they think) than Roland does. I could go on -- about the marvelous depiction of Mejis, and its quaint (though dangerous) denizens, the evil Coffin Killers (I always picture Jason Robards as their leader for some reason), or the lyrical language King uses during this narrative -- a lyricism that is present, it seems, only in this series and early novels such as Salem's Lot and The Stand, although Rose Madder has a lot of it, too. I could speak of the richly-depicted characters, or the numerous Tolkien parallels -- I've mentioned two, and here's another: the Wizard's Grapefruit, which is in appearance and its effect on Rhea eerily like the Palantirs in the Rings saga. I could go on and on (if the good people at Amazon.com would allow me) -- but in the end, I'll mention this one thing, and leave it at that: Wizard and Glass is a work of boundless heart and imagination, chilling and warm all at once, a wholly-successful melding of the Wild West, the journey of the Ringbearer, and Arthurian myth that King hinted at in the previous three novels. There is not a moment when there is not something of interest going on, when you are not amused or unsettled or in love or in fear; King is a writer of immeasurable talent, and this novel proves it. As to the Wizard of Oz riff that provides much of the framing story -- it is, to quote King's description of the Marsten house in Salem's Lot, &quot;a literary curlicue, there to provide mood...and not much else&quot;. Of course it also sets the stage for what is to come in the next three books -- the true quest for the Dark Tower (where Sauron lived in Tolkien's story!) which promises to be every bit as enthralling and entertaining as what has come before. Dorothy was on a quest, too; she wanted nothing more than to go home, much as each of our characters does (except possibly young Jake), the difference being that not only do our heroes know they can never go home again (as Thomas Wolfe would no doubt tell them), there is not even a guarantee they will reach their destination alive. Using the Oz parallel is simply King's way of reminding us (and possibly himself) that all roads have endings, and that all quests much sooner or later reach their fruition. If Wizard and Glass is any indication, I can't wait for what is at the end of Roland's long, hard-traveled road.	2000-12-23
US	48720238	R81DTPN8APKNE	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Worthy of Tolkien	&quot;The man in black fled acsross the desert, and the Gunslinger followed.&quot; With these words, Stephen King began what is turning out to be one of the best epic fantasies since Frodo started on the road to Mordor and another Dark Tower. Much like Middle-Earth, Roland's universe (which we later learn is called Mid-World) is not shown to us all at once, but rather revealed to us slowly; we discover it as the characters do. Similarly, very little at first is revealed about Roland's quest for the Tower, just as the Ring-Bearer knows almost nothing about the task he must perform -- save that both journeys will be fraught with peril, hovering at the brink of disaster and madness, and that each may cost more than the hero is expecting (or willing) to pay. Roland in particular has lost almost everything he holds dear in his quest before The Gunslinger even begins; the first we see of him is as a lone figure, all but used up, still doggedly trailing his adversary west to the sea. In the course of this somewhat-episodic story, we slowly learn more about the mysterious Roland, and his strange world, which parallels our own so eerily (note the effective use of the song &quot;Hey Jude&quot;, which startles the reader even as it provides an anchor of familiarity in this semi-alien environment). We meet Jake, the boy from our own world who was pushed into Roland's (almost literally) when he died in a New York traffic accident, and whose character has unexpectedly come to inform and influence the story as much as, if not more than, that of Roland himself. We encounter the darkly magical aspects of Roland's world, both in his encounter with The Speaking Demon below the Way Station, and in his strange, eerie tryst with the Oracle in the Mountains, surely one of the most atmospheric, best-written passages in any of King's novels. We pass under the mountains with Roland and Jake, encounter the hideous Slow Mutants (which provide us with a clue as to just how the world began moving on), and just as light begins to (literally) appear at the end of the tunnel, the bleakest moment occurs, and we learn to what depths Roland is capable of sinking to attain the ultimate goal of his quest. Along the way, we slowly begin to learn about Roland's childhood -- his training as a gunslinger, the day he witnesses a hanging partly brought about by his actions, the serene majesty of a Harvest Dance in the Great Hall, and the first inklings of trouble between his mother and father. Later, we learn how Roland's confirmation of his mother Gabrielle's adultery will force him to take his final test, and become an apprentice gunslinger, at the youngest recorded age for such an event. These flashbacks inform and echo the rest of the story -- i.e., young Roland's realization of his mother's treachery and Jake's growing certainty that his friend will betray him; the sacrifice of the hawk David, and another sacrifice that will grow to haunt Roland ever more deeply as time goes on. This novel, which according to King took the longest of all his books to write, is very well-constructed, a good story in itself which also implies that there is much more to be discovered in the successive volumes (and this has indeed proved to be true). Most of all, I love the implications of the final chapter, the long palaver between Roland and the man in black, which suggests that not only is Roland's universe dying, it may be nothing more than a mote of dust within another, vaster universe. This concept is hardly original to King (even he admits he got it from someone else), but rarely have I seen it so well-executed as it is here. In fact, the entire story is infused with the idea that Roland's world, moving on as it is, is just one of many continua that are endangered in this story. Jake's final words to Roland, in fact (&quot;Go, then. There are other worlds than these.&quot;) would indicate that this is in fact so. Roland's strange, threatening, yet somehow beautiful world -- muchlike Middle-Earth -- is one of the best settings for a fantasy/quest story that I have ever seen, and the more that is revealed, the more enchanted I am. Roland and his journey may not be exactly on a par with Tolkien's tale of Frodo and the One Ring -- but it's pretty damned close. King's most ambitious work may well turn out to be one of the best fantasy epics ever created -- and if you haven't started it yet, you really should.	2000-12-23
US	48720238	R26YB0K775FKE3	0451163524	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Not Bad, But Not Great Either	The Drawing of the Three is probably the least of Stephen King's Dark Tower series -- not a bad book, mind you, but certainly not up to the standards of other entires in this series. The concepts are interesting (I love, for instance, King's mindbending description of the Door which appears to Roland on the beach), and the action, when there is action, is breathtakingly good. I also liked the &quot;lobstrosities&quot; and their &quot;lawyerly questions&quot;, and the eerie way they raise their wicked claws in some strange form of worship as the incoming waves strike the shore.  All of these things are good, as are the two new major characters King introduces: Eddie Dean and Odetta/Detta. Unfortunately, King indulges one of his worst traits here and spends far too much time providing backstory. Doing this for Eddie and Odetta I can understand, but for characters who appear in perhaps ten or twenty pages of the story? Come on, Steve! I don't know that much about some of my own friends -- I sure don't need to know the life stories of every character in a novel! There's a fine line between characterization and overkill, and King doesn't just cross it here, he buries the damn thing. It's the novel's biggest flaw, and it weakens King's more worthwhile efforts considerably. Then there is the connection between Detta/Odetta and Jack Mort (the heavy-handed symbolism of that name is another weak moment, by the way), which relies far too much on coincidence and is one of the story's more unlikely aspects -- even for a fantasy epic, it is asking a bit much for me to believe that Odetta was victimized by Mort not just once but twice, especially in a city as big as New York. And as far as Odetta herself is concerned -- well, I'm of two minds (pun unintended) about her character. King delineates the split in her mind quite well (I wonder if he toyed with the idea of calling her Janice at some point; I wouldn't be surprised) -- in fact, the moments involving the Detta/Odetta dichotomy are among the novel's best passages -- but I have problems with the way the two sides of Ms. Walker's personality are presented. Not only is the split between good and evil too neat, too clean (nobody is either as saintly or as wicked; each should have some aspect of the other in her), but Detta and Odetta both come dangerously close to caricature. Eddie Dean himself notes that Detta in particular is like some bizarre amalgam of Foxy Brown and Butterfly McQueen, while Odetta is the ultimate expression of King's &quot;superblack&quot; characters (i.e., Jack Halloran in The Shining, Mother Abigail in The Stand), a legless martyr for the civil rights battle in the early Sixties deliberately, almost calculatedly created to spark feelings of guilt among whites. To be perfectly fair to King, this is mostly or at least in part a setup, because neither of these characters is a real person; each is incomplete, unfinished, without the other to provide a real gestalt and make her into a functioning whole. But the whole thing could have been better, more delicately handled; while I was reading some passages I wanted to cringe at King's ham-handedness. Now, these moments are thankfully few and far between -- but combined with the other flaws I've mentioned, The Drawing of the Three is just an okay read, not the great one it could have been with a little more careful attention. I don't know if this was some weird form of sophomore slump, or if King was simply off his form while writing this one -- certainly the succeeding volumes in this series have perked up considerably -- but this book will never be ranked among King's most memorable work. It's second-tier at best.	2000-12-23
US	48720238	RC7N19HMWN9B4	0451173317	511631376	The Waste Lands (Dark Tower)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fear In A Handful of Dust	The Waste Lands is a significant improvement on the somewhat-disappointing The Drawing of the Three. Freed at last from the need to provide backstory on the new characters, seemingly less intent on trying to impress the reader with his dexterity, King has settled down and made this book much more what it should be: A raucous ripsnorting fantasy adventure, full of action, excellent characters, portents, omens, and the like. This is a story populated by demons and ghosts from a past world that has indeed moved on. Jake Chambers in New York and Roland in Mid-World are troubled by ghosts in particular, as they are slowly driven mad by twin sets of memories, one in which Jake dies at the hands of Jack Mort, meets Roland in the desert, then dies again under the mountain (&quot;Go, then. There are other worlds than these.&quot;) -- and one in which they never meet. Neither is able to reconcile these conflicting memories, though each searches for a way. The resolution comes at a stone circle, in battle with a pair of demons, in one of the tensest scenes King has ever written. Other ghosts occupy this landscape as well; Shardik, the giant Guardian bear, a leftover of the Great Old Ones who ruled Mid-World before the Cataclysm, menaces our heroes early on. David Quick, the Robin-Hood-like, legendary ruler of Lud, haunts the latter half of the story to some degree. Lud itself is a ghost, the cracked and shattered specter of a majestic city which has regressed to almost complete savagery. (Of course, no good Western should be without a ghost town; here King gives us an entire ghost city!)The residents of River Crossing, a sleepy, dying village where the travelers and their newly-adopted mascot, a &quot;billy-bumbler&quot; named Oy, take respite before their horrifying journey into the dead city of Lud, are ghosts as well -- ghosts of the Gunslinger's former life, when he and his kind were not only respected but revered as great heroes. Eddie Dean is haunted by the teasing revenant of his brother, Henry; his wife Susannah, by her own personal demon Detta Walker, and by her newly-discovered pregnancy with Eddie, of which she is most frightened, especially after her battle with the incubus-demon at the stone circle, moreso as their journey takes her through the mutant-infested, radiation diseased Waste Lands -- what kind of birth, she nervously (and rightfully) thinks, will result from all her horrifying experiences? The implications of this are horrifying indeed to contemplate -- but even more horrifying is the revelation that comes towards the story's climax, as Lud is tearing itself apart and Blaine is killing its inhabitants. I won't tell you what it is, but if you're a loyal King reader, the sheer adrenaline rush of &quot;Oh, no! Not HIM!&quot; that you will experience makes all that came before mere prologue. You realize, with a sinking feeling, that the stakes have just been raised immmeasurably, and that not only are Roland and his compatriots in grave danger, the road they're on has just gotten that much harder. Simply put (and that's a first for me), The Waste Lands is the second-best book in this great series, just behind Wizard and Glass. You can just feel King gearing up for something big here, and I for one can't wait.	2000-12-23
US	48720238	R3RRG79ZZU7PI7	0929480376	179012025	Insomnia: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ralph, I Feel For You	Thos who say that this novel is hard to get into are probably the ones used to what National Lampoon once referred to as the &quot;plot, plot, BOO!, plot, plot, BOO!&quot; technique King used a little more commonly in earlier years (Pet Sematary being a prime example). I'm not saying that technique isn't effective, because it sure is -- I'm just saying that King is trying to do something different in Insomnia, and I applaud it wholehearted-ly. You see, King in this novel is engaging in a deep character study, much as he did in Dolores Claiborne, establishing the &quot;country of the mind&quot; of Ralph Roberts as much as the actual setting of Derry, Maine. Ralph's life is the life of an old man, with little left to him but to watch his friends and loved ones die, and to wonder when his own time will come, hearing its slow approach like the ticking of a deathwatch beetle under the stairs -- an image King uses to great effect in the Prologue and Epilogue. In any event, what King is doing is evoking that world of uncertain certainty, that knowledge that death will strike, but not when. The fear that Ralph feels as he at first starts to lose sleep, then starts to experience the heightened reality of the Long-Timers, is the fear all the elderly must feel that they are losing their minds, that senility is taking hold, or, even worse, that they have some terminal illness. If you are unable to read these pages, then you are likely unable to face up to these ideas. King, a man who knows more about the fears of the living than any of us, has the surest feel for this country of the mind that I've ever seen. Young or old, you owe it to yourself to give Ralph Robert's and his world of certain uncertainty a try. The rewards will be rich.	2000-12-09
US	48720238	R58FRJ4EJ0VXI	0395974682	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Impeccable Mythology	Well, where did you think I got my nick? As a lover of the great fantasy novels (the Alice books, Lewis' Narnia chronicles, et al), I come always, inevitably, back to The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion -- the triptych of fantasy, without which none of what followed would be possible. (Simply look at Terry Brooks' Sword of Shannara to see what I mean. It parallels Tolkien in so many ways, it would be plagiarism if it wasn't so obviously a homage.) In thinking about the Rings saga while working on this review, I find so many things that delight and enlighten -- Tolkien's wonderful, memorable characters, his inventive Elven and Dwarvish languages, not to mention his even more inventive use of the English lamguage, his impeccably mythic story...I could go on, and I think I will! Continuing in the mythic vein for a moment, think about such creatures as the deadly, horrific barrow-wights, unseen in the story save for one clutching arm; Tom Bombadil, full of jollity and song, yet somehow wistful and a little sad at the same time; the hrm-ing, hooming, completely delightful Ents, pining for their lost wives -- that is what I mean by impeccably mythic. They all sound like stories you heard a hundred times when you were a child, as familiar as King Arthur, as spooky as Jack running from the Giant, as full of life and light, and sadness and darkness, as every adventure Dorothy ever had in Oz. Somehow, Tolkien tapped directly into what critic Burt Hatlen called the &quot;myth-pool&quot; with the Rings saga; his words and wonders are as intimate to us, in the archetypal sense, as our own blood and nerves. As an example, look at two key moments in The Fellowship of the Ring, where Frodo is rendered unconscious, first at the lair of the barrow-wights, then again at the high hill where his company is accosted by the ring-wraiths. In both instances, Frodo is nearly slain, and falls forward, his sword broken beneath him, calling to mind Arthur, fallen in his final battle, Achilles at Troy, or even a Biblical martyr, though that may be stretching a point. When we learn later that the Elven-king who cut the Ring-hand from Sauron's arm also fell slain with his sword broken beneath him, we know that not only is Tolkien paying close attention to detail, he understands full well that certain myths have a habit of running in cycles, and what happened to one Ring-Bearer will almost certainly happen to the next one. This is but one example of Tolkien's amazing work, which has such breadth and scope that I cannot fully convey its perfection in this short space, much as I would like to try. I will only say that if you have not read Lord of the Rings, you must; if you have read it but did not enjoy it, then there is no sense of wonder in your heart -- and may Shelob and Gollum cast you into the Cracks of Doom. (Yeah, I know it sounds silly, but it was better than the Marsh of the Dead!) And, as a simple matter of curiosity, is there anyone out there anticipating the new movie version as much as I? (At least we know it can't be worse than Ralph Bakshi's!)  Remain in Light -- Phrodoe.l battle, Achilles at Troy, or even a Biblical martyr, though that may be stretching a point. When we learn later that the Elven-king who cut the Ring-hand from Sauron's arm also fell slain with his sword broken beneath him, we know that not only is Tolkien paying close attention to detail, he understands full well that certain myths have a habit of running in cycles, and what happened to one Ring-Bearer will almost certainly happen to the next one. This is but one example of Tolkien's amazing work, which has such breadth and scope that I cannot fully convey its perfection in this short space, much as I would like to try. I will only say that if you have not read Lord of the Rings, you must; if you have read it but did not enjoy it, then there is no sense of wonder in your heart -- and may Shelob and Gollum cast you into the Cracks of Doom. (Yeah, I know it sounds silly, but it was better than the Marsh of the Dead!) And, as a simple matter of curiosity, is there anyone out there anticipating the new movie version as much as I? (At least we know it can't be worse than Ralph Bakshi's!)  Remain in Light -- Phrodoe.	2000-12-09
US	48720238	R1H8481EY5Y86S	0380791854	299110267	Lathe of Heaven	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Dark Side of Dreaming	I remember seeing the film version of Lathe on PBS when I was a child, and being totally mesmerised by it even then, although I didn't fully understand all the implications of its premise. I thought for years that it was an original &quot;unadapted&quot; story until I found LeGuin's original novel as a teen, and all but devoured it in one day! Wow! What a story! I've lost track since then of the number of times I've read Lathe, but every time I read it I find something new. The Taoist aspects of the novel have been remarked upon endlessly, but what I find intriguing is how few people seem to realize the Leguin is using Taoism, and George Orr's tale (and think about the significance of that last name!), to comment on the darker side of 1960's idealism. she covers many of the &quot;hot-button&quot; issues of the time -- racism, overpopulation, war, etc. -- and shows, through the nefarious Dr. Haber's attempts to eradicate those ills, that it will take a lot more than a &quot;quick fix&quot; or having a dream of the promised land to rid the world of such evils. This is far more than a novel about the near future -- it is a deeply cautionary tale about how dreams, unless they are treated with deep and tender care, can turn violent and dark. LeGuin herlelf, in her great foreword to The Left Hand of Darkness, has said that the best   s-f authors do not predict the future (that would be silly), but instead tell us something about today by showing us an imagined tomorrow. Just as the ambisexual aliens in Left Hand of Darkness were a comment on our own discomfiture about homosexuality and bisexuality, so Lathe is a warning that while being a dreamer is all well and good, it's a very dangerous thing to confuse dreams with reality. Few writers have ever been able to pull this trick off under the reader's nose quite so effectively -- or audaciously -- as LeGuin. Lathe is a classic for that reason alone, even if it weren't sweet, lyrical, mystical, and compulsively readable. Thefact that it is all those things at once is merely icing on the cake. Simply put, you HAVE to read this one!	2000-11-11
US	48720238	R2FR79VVQXF1VD	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spiders have feelings, too.	I just finished A Deepness In the Sky, and I was highly impressed with what Vinge was doing in this novel. His characters, human and alien alike, had more depth than most people I meet on the street every day -- their wants and needs were both clear and understandable. The plotting was typical of Vinge, ticking away with Swiss-movement precision and full of surprises. As to the Spiders, Arachna, and the OnOff star -- well, it was one of the best examples of worldbuilding I've ever seen. I thought the parallels between Arachna and post-WWII America and Europe were both exquisite and entirely apt for the story that Vinge was telling. And Focus is quite possibly one of the best s-f concepts since David Brin invented Uplift. Deepness is one of the best books I've read all year.	2000-11-04
