US	48775278	RXGYJQQ8GJ0M5	0374281394	935983820	The Good Wife: A Novel	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	A beautiful novel of spare prose	This haunting novel describes in spare prose the long span of time that passes between the commission of a crime by Patty's husband, Tommy, and his release from prison many years later.  Throughout it, Patty is the \\"good wife\\" indeed, nearly unwavering in her support for Tommy in the face of truly difficult circumstances.  The graceful writing and moral dilemmas in this novel will stay with you long after finishing it.<br /><br />O'Nan provides a totally convincing portrayal of a segment of society--the spouses, usually wives, of convicts--that goes almost completely ignored and neglected.  This book is searing reminder that crimes harm not only the victims of the crime, who naturally deserve the bulk of our sympathy, but also the criminal's loved ones.  Tommy's apparent lack of recognition of, and remorse for, the harm he has done to his wife and the child he was not around to raise is one of the most disturbing aspects of the novel.  Patty WAS a good wife, and she deserved more gratitude from Tommy than she received.<br /><br />What makes this novel deserving of 5 stars is not merely its story but the writing itself.  In beautiful, spare prose O'Nan writes simply of the day to day complications of trying to get by as a single mother whose only hope for the future is at the far end of a 25-year sentence.  Parts of Patty's life are described in detail, but in other parts of the book, entire years go by summarized in a phrase or a sentence.  The tragedy of Patty's life is that entire years COULD be summarized in a sentence, and through his prose O'Nan communicates vividly the bleakness of a life placed far too long on hold.<br /><br />Should Patty have stuck by Tommy?  That's a hard question.  You have to admire her perseverance and willingness to stand by her marriage vows and her love her for husband, although the subplot involving her attraction for another man suggests that, once again, Patty let her life be determined by the actions (or inactions) of others.  Given slightly different chance encounters, her story very easily could have ended differently.  In a way, I see her story not being one of loyalty but rather passivity...to Tommy, to a penal system that transferred her husband to a facility a day's drive away, to a fate that treated her badly.  Patty may have been a good wife, but in the final analysis, the only person that benefited was Tommy.  And you finish the novel feeling utterly sad about all the wasted lives involved.hance encounters, her story very easily could have ended differently.  In a way, I see her story not being one of loyalty but rather passivity...to Tommy, to a penal system that transferred her husband to a facility a day's drive away, to a fate that treated her badly.  Patty may have been a good wife, but in the final analysis, the only person that benefited was Tommy.  And you finish the novel feeling utterly sad about all the wasted lives involved.	2005-07-18
US	48775278	RMGUV8WX82OIE	0684872781	227257540	Janet & Me: An Illustrated Story of Love and Loss	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A beautiful and unflinching look at love and loss...	This book describes in both narrative form and cartoons the story of Stan Mack's relationship with his long-time partner, Janet, and how he coped with her illness and subsequent death from cancer.  Two primary themes emerged, with the first theme focusing on their love and commitment to each other.  You finish the book thinking that they were lucky to have had each other in their lives.  Stan's tender and total caregiving of Janet during the terminal phase of her illness was particularly impressive.  The second theme concerned the reactions of the medical establishment to terminal disease, and the discomfort medical professionals have in confronting the fact that they will not always be able to cure their patients.  One of the most heartrending parts of the book is toward the end, when Stan and Janet try repeatedly, in vain, to contact her physician (who had been wonderfully supportive at the beginning of her treatment) to ask whether her chemotherapy should be discontinued and what could be done instead. It was only when Stan started hospice care that Janet started receiving the home help and other sources of support that she needed to improve the quality of her remaining days.<br /><br />Indeed, one of the features of this book that cancer patients and their families might find most helpful is that Mack provides a more realistic picture of the day-to-day aspects of caring for a terminally ill loved one.  You get the sense that he wants to prevent others the trial-and-error efforts he had to go through to figure out what worked best.  A related moral is that persistence is needed in dealing with insurance companies and the medical establishment.  Lastly, his is a precautionary tale of the legal difficulties facing unmarried partners.  Janet's will, naming Stan as executor, was challenged by her relatives, resulting in a legal battle that took over a year to resolve.<br /><br />This last paragraph probably makes the book sound like it is cut and dried and concerned only with practical and logistical details.  That is not at all the case.  It is, first and foremost, a story of love and loss, and you will almost certainly be unable to read this book without being moved to tears by the depth of Mack's love and pain.  But perhaps the greatest strength of this book is that Mack points out that, in real life, love and loss doesn't proceed like you see on bad made-for-TV specials, or \\"Love Story,\\" where the heroine drifts off to sleep after a very short and essentially painless illness.  In real life, love and loss are embedded in a host of not-so-pleasant details like \\"what kind of bedpan is best for the advanced cancer patient?\\" (answer: full-size bedside commode) and \\"how can I get her to take her pain medicine if she can no longer swallow?\\" The beauty of this book is that Mack shows so compellingly how love can shine through and conquer all those messy details.cal and logistical details.  That is not at all the case.  It is, first and foremost, a story of love and loss, and you will almost certainly be unable to read this book without being moved to tears by the depth of Mack's love and pain.  But perhaps the greatest strength of this book is that Mack points out that, in real life, love and loss doesn't proceed like you see on bad made-for-TV specials, or \\"Love Story,\\" where the heroine drifts off to sleep after a very short and essentially painless illness.  In real life, love and loss are embedded in a host of not-so-pleasant details like \\"what kind of bedpan is best for the advanced cancer patient?\\" (answer: full-size bedside commode) and \\"how can I get her to take her pain medicine if she can no longer swallow?\\" The beauty of this book is that Mack shows so compellingly how love can shine through and conquer all those messy details.	2005-05-11
US	48775278	R2LSOF6L11QK4D	0812967941	42588856	A Working Stiff's Manifesto: A Memoir of Thirty Jobs I Quit, Nine That Fired Me, and Three I Can't Remember	Books	5	40	44	N	Y	An engaging and fun read....	This book should be required reading for any liberal arts major.  Levison does a terrific job detailing, in a hilarious fashion, the teeny-tiny downside to a college education that the glossy brochures never pointed out:  Just because you get a degree does not necessarily mean you will graduate with marketable skills an employer would find desirable.  Instead, you may be forced to endure, as Levison does, the indignities of a seemingly endless procession of McJobs.<br /><br />An added benefit to making this required reading is that undergraduates would probably find this book a more enjoyable read than, say, \\"Nickel and Dimed,\\" a more scholarly piece of nonfiction that makes the same basic point though with nowhere close to the same humor quotient. Levison is clearly a talented writer, and my primary complaint with the book was that it was too danged short; I wanted to hear about more of his 42 jobs.<br /><br />Employers ought to read this book, too, as it may give them insight to their perennial complaint about high levels of employee turnover.  Levison points out with great clarity that people quit jobs when those jobs don't offer reasonable incentive to stay, or when supervisors treat them so demeaningly that unemployment is preferable.  I must confess, however, to not buying Levison's rationalization for stealing from one particular employer. Stealing is wrong, no matter how irritating a supervisor is. But the respect I lost for him in that chapter was regained in the chapter describing what he went through working for the Alaska fishing companies.  The next time any of my undergraduates whine about my class being too demanding, I will be tempted to hand them a copy of Levison's book and tell them \\"This is REAL work. And if you don't want to be in the same boat as Levison, you will concentrate a lot harder in your classes and get something valuable out of your college education.\\"<br /><br />But I have to say that this book has made me exceedingly grateful for my job as a tenured professor that lets me write amazon.com reviews during working hours...for my job as a tenured professor that lets me write amazon.com reviews during working hours...	2005-04-04
US	48775278	RCI5B3NXB57LR	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	This book will break your heart....	Like most people, I remember watching the televison on 9/11, seeing the first tower collapse, and realizing with a sickened heart that I was watching the deaths of countless human beings.  I also remember Rudy Giuliani, when pressed repeatedly in one of the early press conferences for casualty estimates, saying only that the number would be \\"more than we can bear.\\"  This book puts a human face on the World Trade Center victims, and it shows that Giuliani was right--to fully grasp all the individual tragedies that occurred in the collapse of the towers is more than we can bear.  This book does a tremendous service to humankind by painting vividly the human stories behind the almost incomprehensible casualty figures.  The writing is impeccable and riveting, and the stories of heroism among everyday people who could have saved themselves but stayed behind to try to save others will haunt you long after the book is finished.<br /><br />The book performs an additional service, one that could ultimately prove the most valuable of all, and that is pointing out the role of the building codes under which the towers were constructed in contributing to the casualties of 9/11.  While it is clear that hundreds of people were doomed in the initial impact of the airplanes, the authors make even more clear the fact that hundreds, of not thousands, of the other victims did not have to die and perhaps would not have if only safer, more widely distributed stairway exits were available.  Perhaps the most surprising, and disconcerting, aspect of the book to me was the revelation that the building code followed by the World Trade Center was actually less stringent than earlier codes.  I guess I must be overly naive, but I had assumed that building codes, and building themselves, would only become safer with time as technology and engineering knowledge increased.  To learn that the WTC code was a step backward in ensuring safety (for example, through requiring only half as many exit staircases and allowing them to be clumped in the center of the building rather than spread across the floor) was a shock to me, and I suspect I will not inhabit skyscrapers quite so blithely as I have done in the past.<br /><br />If I have a criticism of the book at all, it is that with the exception of an offhand reference to the culpability of the hijackers in the author's note, and again in the epilogue, the bulk of the authors' anger is directed at the bureaucracy that allowed the lax building code and the inter-agency issues that prevented effective communication between the fire and police departments rather than the individuals who started the fires in the first place.  The authors make a convincing case that these issues contributed to the casualties of 9/11, and we need to learn what lessons we can from the collapse of the towers and make whatever changes necessary to building codes and interagency coordination to prevent such casualties in future fires in high-rise buildings.  But we must never forget that the finger of blame for 9/11 points squarely at Osama Bin Laden, the hijackers, and Al Qaida, and they are the targets of my anger.ircases and allowing them to be clumped in the center of the building rather than spread across the floor) was a shock to me, and I suspect I will not inhabit skyscrapers quite so blithely as I have done in the past. <br /> <br />If I have a criticism of the book at all, it is that with the exception of an offhand reference to the culpability of the hijackers in the author's note, and again in the epilogue, the bulk of the authors' anger is directed at the bureaucracy that allowed the lax building code and the inter-agency issues that prevented effective communication between the fire and police departments rather than the individuals who started the fires in the first place.  The authors make a convincing case that these issues contributed to the casualties of 9/11, and we need to learn what lessons we can from the collapse of the towers and make whatever changes necessary to building codes and interagency coordination to prevent such casualties in future fires in high-rise buildings.  But we must never forget that the finger of blame for 9/11 points squarely at Osama Bin Laden, the hijackers, and Al Qaida, and they are the targets of my anger.	2005-03-09
US	48775278	R1WYE3WBFZZEDC	0802170048	684529543	Death of an Ordinary Man: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Haunting, both literally and figuratively	The theme of this novel is revealed in a quote near the ending of the book: \\"Sartre said all writing's an act of infidelity.  So's surviving the dead\\" (p. 286).  In this beautiful, spare novel, Duncan explores the many betrayals that make up a family, ranging from an all-too-common marital infidelity to the infinitely more tragic betrayal of not being able to protect one's child from brutality.  We meet Nathan, the central character, in his first few moments of his awareness of being dead.  At first there is nothingness:  \\"It was neither dark nor light but if he lifted his hand in front of his face he wouldn't be able to see it.\\"  As the novel progresses, Nathan regains memories as well as being allowed to witness his family member's actions and thoughts.  As details emerge, the reader begins to realize there is much more here than an ordinary life and death.<br /><br />This is not a book to read for a laugh, as there are few laughs, if any, in it.  It is instead a book for any parent who has dared to confront the unthinkable: How would I react if it happened to my family?  Could I cope?  How could someone possibly cope? Nathan's story provides the uncomfortable confirmation of your suspicion that, sometimes, things happen that just can't be coped with. This message will linger with you long after you've put it down.  Duncan does a wonderful job of portraying characters as humans, fully dimensional, possessing hidden strengths yet simultaneously capable of thoughtless and mean behaviors.  Duncan's talent becomes apparent when you finish the book, despite full awareness of the wrongs committed by the people within it, feeling great sympathy and tenderness for all members of Nathan's family, including Nathan himself.	2005-02-21
US	48775278	RNTJMR2GG4AF9	0743258541	615630241	Eyeing the Flash: The Education of a Carnival Con Artist	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Clever and fun, but not a likable character in the book...	This book is an allegedly autobiographical description of the early life of Peter Fenton, who was introduced to a career as a carnival con artist by his high school friend Jackie.  Both Peter and Jackie are exceptionally bright, and both could be considered poster children for \\"what goes wrong when schools fail to challenge bright students.\\"  From setting up an underground casino, where they fleece their fellow high school students, to working at the Party Time Carnival, where they fleece hordes of blue collar families, Peter and Jackie provide a host of entertaining insights into the sheer gullibility of the average person.<br /><br />But there's not a likable character in the entire book, and I do mean not a one, which makes it a book hard to resonate to.  You finish reading it wanting to take a shower. Or--and this is how bad it gets--you get a craving to buy a \\"Chicken Soup for the Soul\\" book to regain your faith in the basic goodness of human beings. Because there sure as heck is no goodness described in these pages.  Whatever empathy you may be tempted to feel for Peter and Jackie, given their miserable home lives, starts to dissipate when you see them cheerfully cheating each other and the toddlers at the Duck Pond.  Instead, you end up wishing that Fenton had turned his obvious talents in a more socially productive direction.	2005-02-07
US	48775278	R2AL97G7Q4JQ9R	0449906647	512373014	Let Me Hear Your Voice: A Family's Triumph over Autism	Books	4	11	13	N	N	a touching mother's story	My son has been diagnosed with PDD-NOS (on the autism spectrum, but milder), and so I have read a great deal of books on autism spectrum disorders, some more of a scholarly textbook variety and others that were memoirs of raising an autistic or PDD child.  This book falls into the latter category, and it is one of the more hope-inspiring such memoirs that I have read.<br /><br />This book has many strengths. Perhaps the most important is its emphasis on seeking early intervention.  If there is one thing that the literature on treating autism shows, it is that early intervention is absolutely critical. I would urge all parents who are harboring even vague suspicions that there might be something \\"wrong\\" with their child to initiate the evaluation process, speech therapy, and other interventions. The interventions that have been shown to be successful (the ABA behavioral modification approach highlighted in this book and Greenspan's Floor Time method) can, as this book shows, make an amazing difference in a child's social and intellectual outcomes.  More to the point, they can't hurt... so even if your child turns out not to have a full-blown autism spectrum disorder, speech therapy and ABA can only help in terms of normal development.<br /><br />A second important strength of this book is to point out the weaknesses in psychodynamic approaches to treatment of autism.  Perhaps the most harrowing sections of the book were Maurice's description of the holding sessions conducted at the Mothering Center.  I hate to think how many families have put themselves through such a self-defeating and pointless exercise, especially if it reduced the likelihood that they would try interventions that actually have scientific evidence in their support.<br /><br />The part of the book that rang the truest for me was Maurice's description of the long period of doubts and the journey toward a definitive diagnosis.  One of the most frustrating things about autism spectrum disorders is that they are not obvious at birth, nor does a simple diagnostic test exist.  Instead, it generally takes several months or years of doubts first suppressed and then whispered to one's spouse, then voiced to a pediatrician, and ultimately to multiple specialists who are consulted.  I know that in my experience, the year or so it took our family to go from \\"I'm beginning to worry that our son's speech and social development is a little delayed\\" to the official PDD-NOS diagnosis was a time of great stress, uncertainty, and fear.  In retrospect, of course, it all seems so obvious--just as it did to Maurice.  But we don't have the luxury of going through life with the benefit of hindsight and must muddle through as best as we can.  Perhaps the greatest service this book can provide is to help other families deal with their fear and uncertainties as they face an autism spectrum diagnosis in one of their children.<br /><br />Maurice's story of (apparently) full recovery in not one, but two, autistic children thus stands as a beacon of hope.  But there is one sense that this can perhaps be considered one of the drawbacks of the book.  Perhaps it should be accompanied by the disclaimer one sees in ads for weight-loss products:  \\"Results not typical.\\"  The fact is that even the best clinical tests of the ABA method show only about 50% \\"success,\\" defined as significant improvement of the child's social and linguistic behavior and placement in regular educational settings.  Maurice's book may have the unfortunate effect of raising unrealistic expectations in parents and exacerbating their guilt when their child does not fare as well as Anne-Marie or Michel did.  On balance, I do not view this as a serious weakness.  Early intervention does help, and anything that inspires parents to try these techniques early on is a good thing, even if their children do not show the same degree of recovery.  I would also rather parents try the interventions that have been shown to be effective than not try anything at all.  Twenty or 40 hours a week of ABA may not result in a full recovery for your child, but doing nothing surely will not help.<br /><br />This book is well-written and often moving.  The passage describing the very first time Anne-Marie called out \\"Mommy\\" brought tears to my eyes.  However, I would recommend \\"A slant of sun\\" by Beth Kephart, as an even more beautifully written and moving memoir.  Maurice's book does a better job of describing the nuts and bolts of ABA and the advantages and disadvantages of various therapeutic interventions for autism.  But the Kephart book does a better job of capturing a parent's emotions--the raw grief and anguish that accompanies the realization that one's child has an autism spectrum diagnosis.  I highly recommend both of these books.  Lastly, for those parents who are contemplating reading this book because your child has just been diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder, or you are worried he or she might have one, I strongly recommend you read \\"Quirky Kids\\" as a scholarly reference on these disorders.ective than not try anything at all.  Twenty or 40 hours a week of ABA may not result in a full recovery for your child, but doing nothing surely will not help. <br /> <br />This book is well-written and often moving.  The passage describing the very first time Anne-Marie called out \\"Mommy\\" brought tears to my eyes.  However, I would recommend \\"A slant of sun\\" by Beth Kephart, as an even more beautifully written and moving memoir.  Maurice's book does a better job of describing the nuts and bolts of ABA and the advantages and disadvantages of various therapeutic interventions for autism.  But the Kephart book does a better job of capturing a parent's emotions--the raw grief and anguish that accompanies the realization that one's child has an autism spectrum diagnosis.  I highly recommend both of these books.  Lastly, for those parents who are contemplating reading this book because your child has just been diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder, or you are worried he or she might have one, I strongly recommend you read \\"Quirky Kids\\" as a scholarly reference on these disorders.	2005-02-02
US	48775278	R120A0C7SNLCCB	1400063426	59126797	The Man in the Flying Lawn Chair: And Other Excursions and Observations	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	We'll miss you, George	I ordered this book after reading an excerpt of the title piece in the New York Times. Like most of us, I was aware of Larry Walters's epic flying lawn chair adventure, and I was happy to hear the full details of the story.  Plimpton did a terrific job of painting a sympathetic and poignant picture of Walters. Indeed, throughout the book Plimpton displays a wonderfully breezy, droll, self-effacing writing style, and I enjoyed this book thoroughly.<br /><br />The title selection is the best in this book, but other highlights include \\"Inside the playpen of the damned\\" (a look inside the world of actors in pornographic movies); Plimpton's autobiographical sketch of how he flunked out of Exeter; and \\"The man who was eaten alive\\" (a description of Alan Root, a documentary film maker who has had more than his fair share of adventures filming wildlife in Africa).<br /><br />The only criticism I have of this book is that--like Plimpton's life itself--it is too short.  I get the impression that it had originally been intended to be longer, but Plimpton's untimely death no doubt threw a monkey wrench in those plans.  As it stands, the book contains only 184 double-spaced pages with large margins, and several of the 18 selections included are only a couple of pages long.  They're all highly entertaining, but when I buy a book with a $24.95 cover price, I prefer a little more heft.<br /><br />In sum, this book is a delightful way to spend an hour or so.  Plimpton is obviously a remarkable man and gifted writer who led an extremely interesting life.  The world will miss him.	2005-01-26
US	48775278	R11R48N15LDA1Q	0316740403	364639681	Case Histories: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	More beautiful and moving than a typical "detective story"	\\"Case Histories\\" is a beautiful, moving novel.  It begins by describing three ostensibly unrelated, heartbreaking family tragedies.  The cornerstone of the book is the Jackson Brodie character, who is hired as a private investigator in the hopes of bringing closure to each of the families involved.  As the plot develops, links between the cases emerge, and the lives of the survivors become intertwined.<br /><br />Do not be fooled into thinking that this book is just another detective novel that resolves everything with one tidy ending.  Although we do eventually discover who committed each of the three murders, these discoveries are almost beside the point, and there is no sense of justice or resolution being reached in each of the cases.  The victims are still long dead, and the survivors are still dealing, more or less effectively, with their grief and loss.  Indeed, the primary theme of the book focuses instead on the nature of loss, grief, and ultimate redemption. One finishes this book with a deep sense of sadness that we live in a society where people abuse and kill each other and where the victims' loved ones must cope with the knowledge of this loss and pain.  But one finishes the book also with a glimpse of hope that survivors can and do cope with this loss and pain, and that life must and should go on.	2005-01-24
US	48775278	R1H7L4YCGNSWPQ	0385507755	641692200	A Million Little Pieces	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Deeply moving, honest, harrowing...	As someone who has a close relative in recovery, I have read many addiction memoirs.  Frey's book is the best in this genre I have encountered.  His writing style is unique, with conventions of indentation, capitalization, and grammar thrown out the window.  As a compulsive copy-editor, I initially found his writing off-putting and somewhat pretentious.  But the story he was telling was so gripping, and the pain he went through communicated so compellingly, that I stuck with it. I am glad that I did, for after a few chapters I didn't even notice his unconventional style; I simply heard his voice instead.<br /><br />Frey had the good fortune to receive the best of the best: inpatient treatment at the rehab center with the highest success rate in treating addiction in the world.  That this success rate is only 17% sobriety after one year is disturbing evidence of the intractable and self-destructive nature of addiction.  Perhaps the most intriguing part of Frey's story is that he is, apparently, one of the VERY few individuals who has been able to stay clean without working the Twelve Steps.  As an atheist, Frey could not bring himself to believe in the Higher Power that is the cornerstone of the Twelve Step approach. He achieved serenity instead by concentrating on principles of acceptance:  acceptance of who he was, his anger toward his family, the wrongs he had committed during his long years of alcohol and drug abuse, and his responsibility for those wrongdoings.  The book ends with Frey leaving the rehab center to carry out a jail sentence he had been avoiding.  This book could therefore serve as inspiration to other addicts who have similar difficulties accepting the fundamental assumptions of the 12 steps...but the flip side of the coin is that the book could possibly have the unintentional effect of discouraging some addicts from following the 12 Steps (\\"hey, if Frey stayed clean without them, so can I\\"), which would be unfortunate given that the 12 Step approach thus far IS the best documented treatment for addiction.<br /><br />Although the jacket material does not specify exactly when, this book was evidently published some years after Frey's experience at the Clinic.  Because the book is so richly detailed, with many conversations reported verbatim, Frey either kept a highly detailed journal during his time there (which he does not mention doing), or a certain amount of what is described is being reconstructed after the fact.  So it is not clear to me how much of what is portrayed \\"really\\" happened the way he describes, but in a very real sense, it doesn't matter.  Any addict or alcoholic will recognize the genuineness of the emotions and events portrayed here.<br /><br />Frey's book also highlights one of the truisms of addiction, which is that it strikes people from all walks of life.  Frey describes a delightful variety of characters, from federal judges and professors to unemployed high school dropouts.  Perhaps the saddest part of the book was the very end, where Frey updates readers on how all the patients he described are doing now.<br /><br />I recommend this book for anybody who has ever faced the challenge of recovery from a drug or alcohol addiction, and for anybody who has ever loved such a person.  It is not a book you can read without being affected.  Frey narrates his actions and feelings in a honest, unflinching style that makes it at times painful to read, but ultimately fulfilling.  I have nothing but the greatest admiration for his decision to choose recovery and the strength he had to display to achieve it, and the literary world has benefitted as a result.far IS the best documented treatment for addiction.    Although the jacket material does not specify exactly when, this book was evidently published some years after Frey's experience at the Clinic.  Because the book is so richly detailed, with many conversations reported verbatim, Frey either kept a highly detailed journal during his time there (which he does not mention doing), or a certain amount of what is described is being reconstructed after the fact.  So it is not clear to me how much of what is portrayed \\"really\\" happened the way he describes, but in a very real sense, it doesn't matter.  Any addict or alcoholic will recognize the genuineness of the emotions and events portrayed here.    Frey's book also highlights one of the truisms of addiction, which is that it strikes people from all walks of life.  Frey describes a delightful variety of characters, from federal judges and professors to unemployed high school dropouts.  Perhaps the saddest part of the book was the very end, where Frey updates readers on how all the patients he described are doing now.    I recommend this book for anybody who has ever faced the challenge of recovery from a drug or alcohol addiction, and for anybody who has ever loved such a person.  It is not a book you can read without being affected.  Frey narrates his actions and feelings in a honest, unflinching style that makes it at times painful to read, but ultimately fulfilling.  I have nothing but the greatest admiration for his decision to choose recovery and the strength he had to display to achieve it, and the literary world has benefitted as a result.	2005-01-12
US	48775278	R1KSU9TDYKA6B	0465006108	57101637	Same Difference: How Gender Myths Are Hurting Our Relationships, Our Children, and Our Jobs	Books	2	104	121	N	N	Sometimes pendulums can swing too far...	As a social psychologist, I read this book with some eagerness, thinking of it as a potential text for my classes. However, I ended up feeling rather disappointed and concluding that--while it makes some good points--it suffers from many of the same criticisms it points out in the work of feminist scholars.<br /><br />As an example, the book devotes an inordinate amount of space to criticizing the work of Carol Gilligan.  I was actually glad to see this, because the authors correctly point out that Gilligan's work has had a disproportionate and scary amount of influence on cultural thought despite severe methodological flaws (e.g., small sample, reliance on unrepresentative anecdotal accounts, refusal to allow other researchers access to data, etc.).  However--and without any apparent sense of irony--Barnett and Rivers rely heavily on anecdotes from their own clinical practices throughout the book to make THEIR points.  And if it's not okay for Gilligan to do so, why is it okay for them?<br /><br />A second feature I found disappointing in this book is that the authors misinterpret \\"small differences\\" to mean trivial or meaningless.  For example, a frequent refrain throughout the book is that studies comparing genders find more variability within genders than between genders.  This is undoubtedly true, but it does not mean that the obtained mean differences are unimportant.  As an illustration, take the height difference in men and women.  Few people would argue that men, on average, are taller than women.  Of course, there is greater variability within genders than between; in other words, the difference between the tallest ten percent of men and shortest ten percent is greater than the difference between the average man and woman.  But that does not call into question the documented sex difference:  Men are, on average, taller than women, and this difference reflects innate biological sex differences.  Height, of course, is a trivial trait I chose to make the point vividly, but the same argument can be made about any of the cognitive and psychological traits that solid science (e.g., peer-reviewed meta-analyses) reveals to demonstrate sex differences.  To give a more substantive example, while men and women do not differ on overall IQ, they DO differ in the shape of the distribution, with men being disproportionately represented in the tails.  To put it bluntly, there are more severely retarded men...but there are also more male geniuses.  Why, nobody knows, but it does no good to try to pretend these differences don't exist or to blame it on some nonexistent glass ceiling that is preventing women from geniushood.<br /><br />In short, I feel this book goes too far in trying to deny the existence of sex differences.  I agree with the authors that the \\"Men are from Mars\\" and Carol Gilligan crowd is doing a disservice to men and women alike by stereotyping and pigeonholing us and insisting that we do not have the capabilities or flexibilities to show traits associated with the opposite gender.  But I think \\"Same Difference\\" undermines their own argument by insisting too steadfastly that there are no differences at all, and their argument is undermined further by a willingness to rely on anecdotal evidence they (rightfully) dismiss in others' work.  Yes, there is tremendous variability within genders, and both men and women are capable of an infinite range of behaviors, emotions, and talents.  But men and women also differ, reliably, consistently, and in statistically significant and practically important ways.  To pretend that they don't is the tale of the emperor's new clothes all over again.the same argument can be made about any of the cognitive and psychological traits that solid science (e.g., peer-reviewed meta-analyses) reveals to demonstrate sex differences.  To give a more substantive example, while men and women do not differ on overall IQ, they DO differ in the shape of the distribution, with men being disproportionately represented in the tails.  To put it bluntly, there are more severely retarded men...but there are also more male geniuses.  Why, nobody knows, but it does no good to try to pretend these differences don't exist or to blame it on some nonexistent glass ceiling that is preventing women from geniushood.    In short, I feel this book goes too far in trying to deny the existence of sex differences.  I agree with the authors that the \\"Men are from Mars\\" and Carol Gilligan crowd is doing a disservice to men and women alike by stereotyping and pigeonholing us and insisting that we do not have the capabilities or flexibilities to show traits associated with the opposite gender.  But I think \\"Same Difference\\" undermines their own argument by insisting too steadfastly that there are no differences at all, and their argument is undermined further by a willingness to rely on anecdotal evidence they (rightfully) dismiss in others' work.  Yes, there is tremendous variability within genders, and both men and women are capable of an infinite range of behaviors, emotions, and talents.  But men and women also differ, reliably, consistently, and in statistically significant and practically important ways.  To pretend that they don't is the tale of the emperor's new clothes all over again.	2005-01-07
US	48775278	R61OEP39V3PLH	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Worth the effort...	This is not a book you are going to be able to knock off in a weekend.  It starts off slowly (we do not get to either of the title characters for quite a while), and it takes a while to get adjusted to the quasi-textbook style of writing.  However, I would heartily recommend all readers to persevere, for when all is said and done, \\"Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell\\" is a remarkable novel.  Many reviewers have compared it favorably to Tolkien, and appropriately so, as the book creates a complex, detailed world inhabited by magical creatures.  It is the depth of characterization and setting that makes Clarke's book so special; you finish reading this book half-convinced that the magical England she describes either did exist, or should.  Clarke does not let an opportunity to digress slip by without being taken advantage of; the numerous footnotes (tedious to some, but heartily enjoyed by me) contain entire fables that could stand on their own as solid short stories.  The impressive length of the book allows Clarke to flesh out fully even allegedly \\"minor\\" characters, and the subplot involving the hilarious efforts of the gentleman with the thistle-down hair (whose name we never discover in the 800 pages of the book) to make Stephen, a Black servant, the new King of England--much to Stephen's dismay--could stand as a worthy novel on its own.<br /><br />The only criticism I have of the book is that the occasional archaic spellings (e.g., \\"chuse\\" for \\"choose\\" and \\"shew\\" for \\"show\\") seemed grating and overly self-conscious.  Clarke's beautifully precise syntax and phrasing are sufficient in themselves to convey the atmosphere of 19th century England, and given that she (wisely) did not choose to adopt archaic spellings consistently, the few examples she did come across as being arbitrary and somewhat pretentious.<br /><br />Bottom line:  This is not a book that grabs you from the opening pages.  If you read primarily fluffy page-turners like \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" or Grisham novels, you may not have the patience to immerse yourself in the tremendously appealing and complex land and characters that Clarke has created.  But you should try, because the journey is worth the effort.not have the patience to immerse yourself in the tremendously appealing and complex land and characters that Clarke has created.  But you should try, because the journey is worth the effort.	2005-01-06
US	48775278	R14NB2BKTZFA47	1400062012	707184660	Safelight: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	quietly moving	This is a book that grows on you.  The prose is sparse, and the book essentially consists of short vignettes that initially have no apparent meaning or relation to the other scenes. I was at first somewhat frustrated with the novel because I could not immediately figure out where the plot was leading to, or even what the plot was.  However, the scenes gradually build to a crescendo, and the result is a book that is simultaneously sad and inspirational, one that creates a mood that lingers long after you have finished it.<br /><br />Burke's writing style is distinctive and highly impressive for a first novel.  It probably didn't help that I read this book shortly after finishing Tom Wolfe's latest novel, as the two styles could not be more different.  Wolfe can devote paragraphs to describing the clothing of a minor character, and it takes at least days of devoted reading to get through his tomes.  I zipped through Safelight, however, in just a couple of hours.  But I do not mean to imply that book is lightweight; its message of regret, grief, and daring to love despite inevitable heartbreak makes this a disturbing yet highly moving novel.  I look forward to reading more of Burke's work in the future.	2004-12-29
US	48775278	REQKURM3OMNY0	0060555602	126822241	Confessions of a Tax Collector: One Man's Tour of Duty Inside the IRS	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	yes, a book about taxes can be hilarious entertainment	I bought this book because it was on amazon.com's list of Top Ten Editor's Picks for 2004.  Having read it, I can now easily understand how it made that list.  This book is absolutely hilarious, from its opening pages describing Yancey's surrealistic job interview, to the end.  Yancey is a gifted writer, with a talent for making characters larger-than-life.  As just one example, William Culpepper, Yancey's mentor at the IRS, rivals Lt. Kilgore in Apocalypse Now (the character of \\"I love the smell of napalm in the morning\\" fame) as a leader whose insanity starts to make a bizarre sort of sense in an insane situation.  The passage describing the woman who was so desperate to hide their tax troubles from her husband that she called Yancey back pretending to be the husband was alone worth the cost of the book.<br /><br />Here's how good this book is:  It made me want to change careers and be a tax collector.  And anybody who can engender sympathy for the IRS (the IRS!!!) is a darned good writer worth reading.	2004-12-13
US	48775278	R1Q2LRJ8171PPP	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Good, but not great...and I was hoping for great.	I am writing as someone who thinks that \\"A Man in Full\\" is perhaps THE Great American Novel of the 20th century.  And being a college professor myself, when I heard that Wolfe was working on a novel based on academic life, I couldn't wait for its publication.  I was therefore quite taken aback when I began to read truly blistering reviews of the book, posted here on amazon as well as such august sources as the New York Times.<br /><br />I was nonetheless determined to buy the book for the reasons mentioned above, and I finished the novel recently.  My assessment is that it is a good book, perhaps even excellent, but it does not come close to approaching \\"The Right Stuff,\\" \\"Bonfire of the Vanities,\\" and \\"A Man in Full\\" in terms of quality.  A lot of the problem, as several have noted, is that--especially in the begining of the novel--Charlotte is not a convincing character.  Young adults simply don't come that naive any more.  It is possible Wolfe knew that but made Charlotte that way simply to highlight more dramatically her loss of viriginity, both physical and metaphorical.  As a professor, I found other misunderstandings of academic life to be somewhat grating. For example, in the very first description of any of her classes, Charlotte is dumbfounded to discover that the other students in her French Literature class are reading Madame Bovary in translation, whereas she has read it in French.  Wolfe obviously spent too much time researching fraternity parties and not enough time in college bookstores, where he would have discovered that students buy the books that professors order for a class, and this mixup simply never would have happened. Or as another example, it is unlikely that a plagiarism charge would go straight from a faculty member to the president of the university; most universities have a codified process for dealing with such charges that is followed to the letter.<br /><br />On the positive side, I do believe that Wolfe has managed to bring attention to many of college life's dirty little secrets, e.g., the all-powerful role that alcohol and sex plays in the lives of many college students, with academics a MUCH lower priority if present on their radar screen at all.  And, indeed, the aspect of the novel that will probably stay with me the longest is its expression of the sad truth that, to students today, college is all too often completely unrelated to a love of learning.  Students come to college because their parents expect them to; because they believe a degree is a necessary credential to get the job of their choice; or because it is a fun way to spend a few years partying and hooking up with other students with minimal responsibiliites.  Even Charlotte Simmons, who is presented to us as being a genius of almost limitless potential, spends most of the 688 pages of this novel of college life obsessing about just about everything EXCEPT what she was learning in class.  As someone who has been teaching college students for 17 years, and encountering fewer and fewer students in class who actually possess an intrinsic interest in the material I am teaching them, the most depressing part of the novel for me was not Charlotte's heavy-handed treatment by the fraternity lout but rather her eventual abandonment of her own dreams of academic glory.<br /><br />In sum, this novel is much better than the mean-spirited reviews it has received.  And perhaps it is not surprising that a man who is capable of turning out a masterpiece like \\"A Man in Full\\" will experience the full brunt of schadenfreude when his next novel doesn't quite achieve the same level. Don't let that deter you from reading this book...but after you finish it, you should go out and buy Wolfe's other novels for truly great literature.college life's dirty little secrets, e.g., the all-powerful role that alcohol and sex plays in the lives of many college students, with academics a MUCH lower priority if present on their radar screen at all.  And, indeed, the aspect of the novel that will probably stay with me the longest is its expression of the sad truth that, to students today, college is all too often completely unrelated to a love of learning.  Students come to college because their parents expect them to; because they believe a degree is a necessary credential to get the job of their choice; or because it is a fun way to spend a few years partying and hooking up with other students with minimal responsibiliites.  Even Charlotte Simmons, who is presented to us as being a genius of almost limitless potential, spends most of the 688 pages of this novel of college life obsessing about just about everything EXCEPT what she was learning in class.  As someone who has been teaching college students for 17 years, and encountering fewer and fewer students in class who actually possess an intrinsic interest in the material I am teaching them, the most depressing part of the novel for me was not Charlotte's heavy-handed treatment by the fraternity lout but rather her eventual abandonment of her own dreams of academic glory.    In sum, this novel is much better than the mean-spirited reviews it has received.  And perhaps it is not surprising that a man who is capable of turning out a masterpiece like \\"A Man in Full\\" will experience the full brunt of schadenfreude when his next novel doesn't quite achieve the same level. Don't let that deter you from reading this book...but after you finish it, you should go out and buy Wolfe's other novels for truly great literature.	2004-12-02
US	48775278	RBMXRKSCAP8NX	080214151X	758410541	Triangle: The Fire That Changed America	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More than just about a fire	\\"Triangle\\" described the 1911 fire at the Triangle Waist Company where 146 workers perished, which was New York City's worst workplace disaster until the 9/11 terrorist attacks.  Von Drehle is a gifted writer and makes history come alive in his retelling of this fire that killed with such swiftness:  The blaze did its deadly work in less than 15 minutes from start to finish.<br /><br />I bought this book because I have long been interested in stories of infamous fires (beginning as a 10-year old reading a now out of print book about the Coacoanut Grove fire).  Thus, one of the aspects of the book I found personally somewhat disappointing is that it got off to a rather slow start, with the first 115 pages devoted to a history of such topics as immigration in New York City in the early 1900s, Tammany Hall, and the strike by shirtwaist workers.  I understand that Von Drehle's motivation by providing this history was to place the Triangle Fire in the larger cultural context so as to render understandable how such neglect of safety issues was tolerated in those days.  Providing this detail thus makes the book educational rather than sensationalistic, and I found myself learning a lot.  However, the bottom line is that I bought the book because I wanted to learn about a famous fire and not particularly about the labor history of New York in the 1900s.<br /><br />That having been said, it is a testament to Von Drehle's writing ability that he was able to make what could have been dry history riveting enough to keep me going through 115 pages until the part on the fire began.  Through painstaking research of original sources, he was able to find enough detail about individual workers so that the reader sees their deaths for the personal tragedies they were and not just another workplace statistic.  His prose at times was beautiful and poignant.  Take, for example, this sentence (p. 138) describing the recollection of one of the survivors of the fire: \\"...he saw 'five or six girls falling from the windows.' They seemed to start out just a few feet below him, barely out of reach, but then they dropped into space and got smaller and smaller until the world, for them, came to a sudden end.\\" This book serves an important function of making sure that the victims of the Triangle Fire are not forgotten.  More important, the book provides a vivid reminder that the safeguards most Americans enjoy in their workplaces today to ensure that such a disaster never happens again came with a terrible price.rom the windows.' They seemed to start out just a few feet below him, barely out of reach, but then they dropped into space and got smaller and smaller until the world, for them, came to a sudden end.\\" This book serves an important function of making sure that the victims of the Triangle Fire are not forgotten.  More important, the book provides a vivid reminder that the safeguards most Americans enjoy in their workplaces today to ensure that such a disaster never happens again came with a terrible price.	2004-11-15
US	48775278	R3KAL88IJZQHTM	0786818603	990781467	The Golem's Eye (The Bartimaeus Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A delightful--and even more thought-provoking--sequel	I consider the first Bartimaeus book to be one of the top five or so novels I have read in the past five years, so the standard it created was exceptionally high.  Indeed, one suspects that Stroud felt some nervousness as he wrote and published \\"The Golem's Eye,\\" as the ceiling effect set by the first novel was bound to set him up for cranky reviewers.  And, as one can tell from perusing the other reviews on Amazon, that did in fact occur.  Bartimaeus is such a wonderful character that some people did not appreciate the fact that he now shares the scene with two other main characters.  And, as a consequence, the biting wit and sarcasm factor of the sequel has been diminished somewhat.<br /><br />But it is still an excellent book, one that will capture readers' imagination and keep them turning pages way past their bedtimes, children and adults alike.  I personally found that the inclusion of Kitty and the corresponding greater emphasis on the Resistance actually contributed greatly to the depth and complexity of the novel.  Rather than being yet another children's book about magicians that portrays characters as either rather unidimensional heroes or villians (and yes that means the Harry Potter books), the Bartimaeus trilogy raises and thoughtfully discusses heavier issues, such as the importance of personal liberty, whether there can be such a thing as a benign totalitarian society, and the psychology of the enslaved.  Bartimaeus's evolution in thinking in regard to this latter issue is especially intriguing; we see in this sequel his growing awareness of, and weariness with, his fate of always serving as slave to beings who are his intellectual inferiors. Book 3 promises to bring these issues to a head in what will undoubtedly be an explosive conflict between the three main characters.  Will Bartimaeus and Kitty join forces?  Will Bartimaeus be the first djinni to escape servitude?  Will Nathaniel revert course and turn back into a likable person or head even further down the slippery slope toward being a power-hungry magician?  Will the Resistance succeed in overthrowing the rule of the magicians?<br /><br />I hope you're typing furiously, Mr. Stroud.  An eager public waits.<br /><br />Bottom line:  Do not let the other reviews opining that the sequel is not as good as the first Bartimaeus book deter you.  I'm not sure I agree with that assessment, and even if I did, it would be because I consider the first book to be essentially perfect, and it is hard to improve on perfection.n the slippery slope toward being a power-hungry magician?  Will the Resistance succeed in overthrowing the rule of the magicians?    I hope you're typing furiously, Mr. Stroud.  An eager public waits.    Bottom line:  Do not let the other reviews opining that the sequel is not as good as the first Bartimaeus book deter you.  I'm not sure I agree with that assessment, and even if I did, it would be because I consider the first book to be essentially perfect, and it is hard to improve on perfection.	2004-10-12
US	48775278	RQ75E5MXHF7XV	0399151346	119325771	Death's Acre: Inside the Legendary Forensic Lab, The Body Farm, Where the Dead Do Tell Tales (includes 16 pages of B&W photos)	Books	5	119	121	N	Y	Engaging, though not for the faint of heart	This is an utterly fascinating book describing a series of case studies taken from the career of the first author, Bill Bass, who is one of the nation's leading forensic anthropologists and the founder of the Body Farm.  I had first encountered the Body Farm from reading about it in the book by Mary Roach, \\"Stiff: The Curious Life of Human Cadavers\\" (a wickedly funny and interesting book in its own right). I have also had a life-long interest in true crime books, so when I found out about \\"Death's Acre\\" I ordered it promptly.<br />And I was not disappointed.  A previous reviewer expressed some dissatisfaction that the book did not deal solely with the work done at the Body Farm.  While it is true that the title of the book is perhaps misleading in this regard, I personally am glad that the book focused as much as it did on the variety of cases that Dr. Bass consulted on throughout his career.  I find it more interesting to hear about how forensic anthropology can help bring a murderer to justice than to read clinical data regarding just how many maggots can hatch in a body after 30 minutes in what temperature.<br />This is probably a good time to offer a gentle warning:  This is a great book and totally fascinating, but if that last sentence about maggots upset you, you should probably forego buying and reading this book because that is only a mild taste of what you will encounter inside its pages.  What happens to a human body after death isn't pretty, and the authors do a great job of describing it clinically and in terms that a lay audience will understand. But you need a pretty strong stomach to deal with it, especially when what is being described is, say, the brutally murdered body of a four-year-old girl.  The book also contains a section of photographs, some of which involve decaying bodies (naturally enough given that this is the subject matter of the book), but if you do not particularly want to see pictures of decaying bodies, find another book to read.<br />But I would not want prospective readers to think that this book is gory just for the sake of sensationalism. The authors draw a compelling portrait of the role of forensic science in solving crimes and convicting the perpetrators of the crimes.  The tone of the book is always scientific and the attitude toward the victims and research subjects at the Body Farm highly respectful.<br />The writing is also terrific. I think Dr. Blass made an excellent decision when he enlisted Jon Jefferson as co-author, as the writing is more literary and enjoyable than you expect from most mainstream academicians.  The only suggestion for improvement I would make is that I wish the authors had included a few more pictures or diagrams of some of the more important diagnostic cues that are relied on in determining gender, age, and race.  For example, we are repeatedly told of structural differences in the pelvis and skull that help to determine sex; it would have been helpful to see diagrams illustrating those differences.<br />Bottom line: Terrific book, one that left me half-wishing I had become a forensic anthropologist instead of a psychologist.<br />But I would not want prospective readers to think that this book is gory just for the sake of sensationalism. The authors draw a compelling portrait of the role of forensic science in solving crimes and convicting the perpetrators of the crimes.  The tone of the book is always scientific and the attitude toward the victims and research subjects at the Body Farm highly respectful. <br />The writing is also terrific. I think Dr. Blass made an excellent decision when he enlisted Jon Jefferson as co-author, as the writing is more literary and enjoyable than you expect from most mainstream academicians.  The only suggestion for improvement I would make is that I wish the authors had included a few more pictures or diagrams of some of the more important diagnostic cues that are relied on in determining gender, age, and race.  For example, we are repeatedly told of structural differences in the pelvis and skull that help to determine sex; it would have been helpful to see diagrams illustrating those differences. <br />Bottom line: Terrific book, one that left me half-wishing I had become a forensic anthropologist instead of a psychologist.	2004-06-17
US	48775278	RHSWB8BHPD5S9	1590710169	261935353	Internal Bleeding: The Truth Behind America's Terrifying Epidemic of Medical Mistakes	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Riveting AND educational!	I strongly suspect that the publishers insisted on the title of this book over the objections of the authors, because (as another reviewer has noted) the title is clearly sensationalistic and very much out of line with the even-handed and level-headed treatment of the rest of the book.  Indeed, the title is perhaps the ONLY thing I would criticize about this otherwise excellent and gripping description of the underlying causes of medical mistakes and what can be done about them.<br />I cannot praise the quality of the writing enough.  The authors accomplish just the right blend of fascinating case studies and theoretical analysis.  They make their basic point (that any system run by humans is fallible and medical mistakes are inevitable) very effectively in the beginning pages of the book by describing two case studies where mistakes were made...with the punch line being that the mistakes were committed by the authors themselves.  Beginning the book this way was in part so effective because it gets across the message that the vast majority of mistakes that are made are not the result of negligent, careless, or malicious physicians; rather, they are the inevitable consequence of a system that struggles to cope with the complexity of the ever-changing demands of a never-ending stream of patients.<br />The second most admirable feature of this book, in my opinion, is that it does not merely criticize but also offers suggestions for improving the delivery of medical services to eliminate errors, from such simple steps as physicians &quot;signing their sites&quot; (to prevent, say, amputation of the wrong limb) to computerizing medication orders (to prevent errors due to physicans' notoriously poor handwriting) to more systemic changes in malpractice law. I thought the authors' suggestions on this latter topic to be highly intriguing and novel.  The idea of adopting a modified no-fault system for compensating patients injured by medical errors is, in my mind, a terrific idea, and I would love to see the authors' recommendations in this regard enter the national debate on malpractice litigation reform.<br />Perhaps the only part of the book I found even slightly disappointing was the authors' reluctance to deal more bluntly with the problem of incompetent or alcoholic/drug dependent doctors.  The authors acknowledge that these &quot;bad apples&quot; exist, but they do little beyond saying that hospitals and physicians tend to cover up for the incompetents in their ranks. My mother-in-law died from botched surgery; after she died, the hospital risk manager told us to our faces that this particular surgeon had had &quot;other surgeries that did not turn out as he had planned.&quot;  I think if I had read this book before my mother-in-law died, I would have been more proactive in pressing our complaints about this surgeon, who--a scary thought--is still operating on people but probably should not be.<br />But these kinds of physicians are in the minority, and the contribution this book makes is to describe the much more common ways in which patients end up being hurt by medical care designed to help them.<br />I read a lot of nonfiction, and this book is one of the rare examples of nonfiction that can keep you glued to your chair and turning the pages eagerly.  I think it ranks right up there with Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into thin air&quot; and Richard Preston's &quot;The hot zone&quot; in terms of readability and interest value.  Yet it also probably outranks those and other books in terms of potential social value. It could well be one of the few books with potential to inform and enable real changes in social policy that has been published lately.idea, and I would love to see the authors' recommendations in this regard enter the national debate on malpractice litigation reform.<br />Perhaps the only part of the book I found even slightly disappointing was the authors' reluctance to deal more bluntly with the problem of incompetent or alcoholic/drug dependent doctors.  The authors acknowledge that these &quot;bad apples&quot; exist, but they do little beyond saying that hospitals and physicians tend to cover up for the incompetents in their ranks. My mother-in-law died from botched surgery; after she died, the hospital risk manager told us to our faces that this particular surgeon had had &quot;other surgeries that did not turn out as he had planned.&quot;  I think if I had read this book before my mother-in-law died, I would have been more proactive in pressing our complaints about this surgeon, who--a scary thought--is still operating on people but probably should not be.<br />But these kinds of physicians are in the minority, and the contribution this book makes is to describe the much more common ways in which patients end up being hurt by medical care designed to help them.<br />I read a lot of nonfiction, and this book is one of the rare examples of nonfiction that can keep you glued to your chair and turning the pages eagerly.  I think it ranks right up there with Jon Krakauer's &quot;Into thin air&quot; and Richard Preston's &quot;The hot zone&quot; in terms of readability and interest value.  Yet it also probably outranks those and other books in terms of potential social value. It could well be one of the few books with potential to inform and enable real changes in social policy that has been published lately.	2004-04-28
US	48775278	R3QSDHJT6XC61R	0345451422	340711328	Quirky Kids: Understanding and Helping Your Child Who Doesn't Fit In- When to Worry and When Not to Worry	Books	5	164	167	N	Y	Great source of reassurance and information	I would have loved to have this book two years ago.  My son, then just shy of 3, was sweet and rambunctious, but just a little bit off the normal developmental trajectories.  He had a phenomenal memory (he could walk into a store in a different state we had visited only once years earlier and remember EXACTLY where the bathroom was...), but he showed little interest in playing with other kids and his speech was delayed. Our worries peaked when another parent at Isaac's gymnastics class turned to us, identified himself as a pediatrician, and asked us what therapies Isaac was receiving because it was \\"obvious\\" he was a special needs child.  Needless to say, we were more than a little distraught at this off-the-cuff diagnosis and wound up spending the next several months having Isaac undergo various types of evaluation.  He ultimately was diagnosed with PDD-NOS and has shown tremendous gains after receiving early intervention and speech therapy.<br />Looking back over that confusing, scary time, when we feared that something was \\"wrong\\" with Isaac but didn't know what, I realize that our fear and uncertainty would have been greatly diminished had I known of and read \\"Quirky Kids.\\" Indeed, I think this book would be most helpful to those parents who are just starting the journey toward diagnosis and treatment. Parents like myself who have long gone through the evaluation process and have read extensively on these topics, etc. will not find much new in this volume.  That did not stop me from reading and enjoying the book, however; I just really wish I had read the book much earlier, as it would have helped me greatly in understanding what was going on with my son.<br />There were several aspects of the book I thought were particularly strong.  First, I was glad to see the authors devote so much time to the etiology of these disorders, and I was EXTREMELY glad to see them debunk several of the popular myths floating around (e.g., the MMR vaccine) regarding the causes of autism. I also found the section on common medications prescribed and their side effects to be very helpful; parents need full knowledge of the possible benefits and negative consequences of the medications that health professionals can sometimes be too eager to prescribe.<br />The aspect of the book I found most helpful, however, was the authors' calm reassurance regarding children who fall under the diagnoses covered by the book. The title itself captures this feeling of reassurance: These children are \\"quirky,\\" and as the authors stress repeatedly, these diagnoses are fairly new.  As recently as 10 or 20 years ago, these children would not have received a diagnosis at all.  This has important implications, and perhaps the authors could have pointed out more explicitly the Catch-22 that parents of quirky kids face today:  Early intervention helps, but receiving such intervention entails attaching a diagnostic label to your child that could stigmatize him or her and last a lifetime. Perhaps the greatest service this book provides is to walk parents through the maze of evaluation and diagnosis and subsequent therapies so that parents know better what they are getting themselves and their families into.<br />This book raises a broader philosophical question:  To what extent are we becoming a country obsessed with perfection and intolerant of any sort of deviation from the norm?  When quirky kids who are, for the most part, functional and happy are given a diagnosis and thrown into therapy to get them to play and talk like other children, are we at risk of losing or devaluing some of the incredible diversity of human behavior that makes life interesting?  I sometimes wonder.  I know that my son has always been and is now one of the happiest children I have ever seen.  He has an enthusiasm for life that brings smiles to the faces of everybody who sees him.  Quite frankly, it bothers us--his parents--that he has few friends more than it does him.  The admirable quality of \\"Quirky Kids\\" is that the authors help us to cherish the differences in our children and remind us that the most important thing, in the long run, is to help them enjoy their childhood and to let them be a kid first, and quirky second.of \\"Quirky Kids\\" is that the authors help us to cherish the differences in our children and remind us that the most important thing, in the long run, is to help them enjoy their childhood and to let them be a kid first, and quirky second.	2004-04-23
US	48775278	R2PU126ED9V733	0312315260	409658567	I Sleep at Red Lights: A True Story of Life After Triplets	Books	3	41	47	N	Y	Or, how NOT to raise children...	This is an extremely funny, and extremely well written book.  It is also a light read.  Anybody who has kids and has silently thanked God that they did not have twins or triplets themselves will enjoy Stockler's honest and witty rendering of what life with triplets is really like (i.e., chaotic and sleep-deprived).<br />Unfortunately, my enjoyment of this book was marred by my increasing dislike of Stockler's wife.  If Stockler described their relationship and her involvement as a parent honestly, I can't understand why he remains married to her and/or why she ever bothered to go through IVF in the first place.  She is a high powered New York lawyer, who works until at least 10 pm most nights and often later.  Stockler's book is a litany of all the important rites of passage that Roni missed because she was at work, as well as all the &quot;unimportant&quot; (but just as crucial from the perspective of a child) day in and day out moments that make up the bulk of child-rearing.  I am a working mother myself, but I took unpaid leaves of absence for the first years of both my children's lives, and I gladly put up with lowered productivity (and hence salary) now in order to make my children my highest priority.  I might have been more understanding if Stockler's wife was doing important, challenging work that she found fulfilling, but according to Stockler, she HATED her job and was there just for the money.  And it was at that point I lost sympathy for both her and Stockler.  There are more important things than money, and being there to raise your children well is one of them.  Stockler acknowledged repeatedly through the book that Roni didn't have to endure that brutal work schedule, that they could have moved to a more affordable region of the country and gotten by on what she (or he) could have made in a more normal job with less brutal work hours. The big unanswered question in the book is why the heck they didn't, then.<br />But Stockler wasn't much of a hero himself.  As you read the book, his obvious love for his children shines through (although while I appreciate his honesty in pointing out his difficulties in bonding with the one girl, Hannah, I cringe to think of how she will feel one day when she reads this book), and you've got to admire his willingness to be not just Mr. Mom, but Mr. Mom of triplets and an older child.  But I found myself wishing he would read a few parenting manuals, as some of his parenting tactics (offering bribes for good behavior, letting the children stay up as late as they want on school nights) leave much to be desired.  I know it is hard to be firm and enforce rules, and it must be exponentially more difficult when dealing with three toddlers at once, but as every parent (except, apparently, Stockler) knows, giving in is easier in the short term but sets disastrous precedents for the long run. The giving in and bribes sure make for more entertaining reading, but I can't help but think that these are going to be some pretty out of control teenagers.<br />I probably shouldn't criticize when I have not (thank God) had to deal with the breath-taking logistical problems of raising triplets.  That Stockler has been able to do so while maintaining a sharp sense of humor is to his credit. However, I think it is fair to say that when I reached the end of the book, my memories of having chuckled through most of it were overshadowed by the sad realization that this book portrays the worst of modern American culture:  when a big paycheck is more important than spending time with your children.self.  As you read the book, his obvious love for his children shines through (although while I appreciate his honesty in pointing out his difficulties in bonding with the one girl, Hannah, I cringe to think of how she will feel one day when she reads this book), and you've got to admire his willingness to be not just Mr. Mom, but Mr. Mom of triplets and an older child.  But I found myself wishing he would read a few parenting manuals, as some of his parenting tactics (offering bribes for good behavior, letting the children stay up as late as they want on school nights) leave much to be desired.  I know it is hard to be firm and enforce rules, and it must be exponentially more difficult when dealing with three toddlers at once, but as every parent (except, apparently, Stockler) knows, giving in is easier in the short term but sets disastrous precedents for the long run. The giving in and bribes sure make for more entertaining reading, but I can't help but think that these are going to be some pretty out of control teenagers.<br />I probably shouldn't criticize when I have not (thank God) had to deal with the breath-taking logistical problems of raising triplets.  That Stockler has been able to do so while maintaining a sharp sense of humor is to his credit. However, I think it is fair to say that when I reached the end of the book, my memories of having chuckled through most of it were overshadowed by the sad realization that this book portrays the worst of modern American culture:  when a big paycheck is more important than spending time with your children.	2004-04-22
US	48775278	RIOSWQ7MJNN2Z	193236000X	135727927	The Sleeping Father (Today Show Book Club #20)	Books	3	13	17	N	Y	A lot of potential, but tries too hard to be clever	I bought this book because I read an interview with Anne Tyler, one of my favorite authors, who recommended it.  Having read the reviews posted here, I was not expecting it to be like Tyler's novels (sympathetic and haunting), and it was not.  Instead, &quot;The Sleeping Father&quot; is one sarcastic remark after another.  Half the time these remarks work, and the reader is captivated by the wit with which Sharpe describes what is, after all, a heart-rending family tragedy: Two teenagers, Chris and Cathy, on the cusp of adulthood who must cope first with their parents' divorce and then their father's brain injury.  Unfortunately, the other half the time the comments fall flat, and--at least for this reader--the author's style grates on one's nerves.  It seemed at times overly self-conscious, similar to Dave Egger's &quot;A heartbreaking work of staggering genius,&quot; but whereas this self-consciousness was charming in Egger's book, here it merely becomes tedious.<br />But there are times that Sharpe's sardonic style issues sentences that linger like brain candy.  Take, for example, Sharpe's description of the rehab center where Chris and Cathy ultimately placed their recovering father:  &quot;Despite the effort of the management of the Roosevelt Rehabilitation Facility had made to ensure that its patrons would not feel shut in, quarantined, hospitalized, warehoused, imprisoned, or abandoned, a lot of them did, and some of them were&quot; (p. 136).  Or this delightful passage: &quot;As a child, [the Catholic saint] Edith Stein had secret, silent sufferings that eventually led her to faith in God.  Cathy had secret, silent sufferings that led her to more secret, silent sufferings&quot; (p. 145).<br />I kept reading this book because of passages like those.  I just wish that some editor had applied a firm and kind hand throughout the prose to wean out the comments that fell flat, e.g., &quot;That was what she [Cathy] wanted to believe but that was not what she believed&quot; (p. 56).<br />In short, this was a frustrating read for me.  Not so bad or awful that I regretted buying or reading it or couldn't finish it, but not so good I would recommend it without hesitation.ed&quot; (p. 56).<br />In short, this was a frustrating read for me.  Not so bad or awful that I regretted buying or reading it or couldn't finish it, but not so good I would recommend it without hesitation.	2004-04-03
US	48775278	R2G2PI8MUBCZK2	0670894737	141542110	The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	It was influenza, only influenza....	This book is a sobering wake-up call to those of us who fret about exotic diseases like smallpox and the Ebola virus when we should be worrying instead about &quot;only&quot; influenza.  Barry does an excellent job of describing why and how the 1918 influenza epidemic was so lethal, and he does not shy away from the disquieting conclusion that another lethal epidemic is inevitable.  Moreover, it is clear that the greater mobility and density of modern life will work to our disadvantage when the next epidemic hits.<br />This book was extremely well-researched, exhaustive, and well-written.  However, it was not without its disappointments.  First and foremost, the book got off to an extremely slow start, devoting approximately the first third to a detailed (and largely unnecessary) history of medicine throughout classical times and, in particular, the 19th century in the United States.  Particularly grating was the author's rather gushing portrayal of the establishment of the Johns Hopkins University, a fine institution to be sure, but not quite deserving of the idolatry displayed by Barry.<br />More generally, I was disappointed that so much of the book was devoted to institutional reactions to the epidemic, and less time and space was devoted to the human aspects of the story.  The parts of the book I enjoyed the most were when Barry presented people's individual experiences with the epidemic, as revealed in letters, books, and interviews.  These anecdotes conveyed much more vividly what it must have been like to live through the fear and panic wreaked by the epidemic.  Alas, this kind of detail was in the minority in this very long book, which tended to stress instead the system-level reactions to the epidemic, for example, the (irritatingly apathetic) response of the military.<br />Do these criticisms mean that the book is bad?  No, not at all; it just means that it is a more scholarly work, intended to place the epidemic within a larger historical context, rather than provide an oral history of what it was like to live through the epidemic.  Thus it is probably unfair of me to criticize it for not being something it did not intend to be; I'm just saying that readers who want primarily the more sensationalized, personalized story of the epidemic may very well be bored and frustrated by this book.<br />I also wish the author had devoted more time than the brief chapter he included on discussing what lessons we can learn from the 1918 epidemic in helping us to cope with the (inevitable) next influenza epidemic.  To me, the most interesting and provocative finding of the book was the author's description of how a very few communities were able to escape the epidemic virtually unscathed, and this was through a rapid response to the encroaching epidemic accompanied by a drastic and total closing of city borders.  Quite simply, the areas that did not lose any lives to the epidemics were the towns that did not allow anybody to come in.  This policy was effective where no other measures (wearing masks, shutting down public meetings, making spitting a crime) were, but the legal and logistical implications of such isolationism are staggering, and I wish Barry had explored them in depth.  I wish this because--even though it is only influenza--we will probably in our lifetimes be confronted with such a crisis.  Barry's book does an excellent job of explaining why we should be terrified at this prospect, but it falls short in telling us what we can do to minimize it.than provide an oral history of what it was like to live through the epidemic.   Thus it is probably unfair of me to criticize it for not being something it did not intend to be; I'm just saying that readers who want primarily the more sensationalized, personalized story of the epidemic may very well be bored and frustrated by this book.<br />I also wish the author had devoted more time than the brief chapter he included on discussing what lessons we can learn from the 1918 epidemic in helping us to cope with the (inevitable) next influenza epidemic.  To me, the most interesting and provocative finding of the book was the author's description of how a very few communities were able to escape the epidemic virtually unscathed, and this was through a rapid response to the encroaching epidemic accompanied by a drastic and total closing of city borders.  Quite simply, the areas that did not lose any lives to the epidemics were the towns that did not allow anybody to come in.  This policy was effective where no other measures (wearing masks, shutting down public meetings, making spitting a crime) were, but the legal and logistical implications of such isolationism are staggering, and I wish Barry had explored them in depth.  I wish this because--even though it is only influenza--we will probably in our lifetimes be confronted with such a crisis.  Barry's book does an excellent job of explaining why we should be terrified at this prospect, but it falls short in telling us what we can do to minimize it.	2004-03-23
US	48775278	R2EOLAOXLPBB74	078681859X	506234393	The Amulet of Samarkand, Book 1 (Bartimaeus )	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Original, complex, and just plain funny	I bought this book, somewhat reluctantly, for my 8-year-old daughter who is waiting not so patiently for the next Harry Potter volume.  At the time I ordered it I regarded it, with some condescension, as yet another Harry Potter clone.  After it arrived I picked it up to skim the first few pages.  Then a few more.  Then, in a shameful abuse of parental power, I confiscated it from my daughter so I could read it first.<br />This is an excellent, absolutely entertaining book, fully worth the money for Bartimaeus's hilarious footnotes alone.  I don't usually like books that switch points of view between characters, but in this case, the switching works and conveys the complexity of plot and character more effectively than if the author had stuck to one character consistently.  As others have noted, this book is darker in tone than Harry Potter, and my sense is that it is a better book for adults and teenagers than it is for children. There are no good guys in this book, for example (at least in terms of major characters), only Really Bad Guys and our heroes, who are not without their own flaws.<br />But what wonderful flaws! I don't think I've encountered such an enjoyable character as Bartimaeus in a book in a very, very long time.  It makes me wish the book were real and I could sit down and toss back a few beers with Bartimaeus, listening to his sharp but right-on-target assessment of human beings.<br />Bottom line:  If you are disinclined to buy this book because you are convinced it is just another unoriginal Harry Potter rip-off, please reconsider.  It would not surprise me in the slightest if in the future the Bartimaeus Trilogy is remembered and revered far longer than the Harry Potter books.<br />p.s. And somebody needs to tell Stroud to knock off this \\"trilogy\\" business.  Surely there will be more than three Bartimaeus books, won't there? Please??	2004-01-12
US	48775278	R3SYA102ND2L66	0465068626	634913745	Our Final Hour	Books	2	55	68	N	Y	Somewhat disappointing	I am a doom and gloom type person, so I bought this book with some eagerness. However, as pointed out in some of the other reviews, the book is disappointingly superficial in its coverage of issues and lacking in scholarship. Take, for example, the section on the dangers of nanotechnology. Michael Crichton's &quot;Prey&quot; does an infinitely better job of detailing what nanotechnology is all about and how it might go wrong. Similarly, if you're interested in viruses running amok, buy Preston's &quot;Hot Zone&quot; and &quot;Demon in the Freezer&quot; instead as a fascinating and gripping introduction and then tackle Laurie Garrett's &quot;The Coming Plague&quot; for a truly comprehensive treatment of the subject. As another example, Bill Bryson's recent book does a better job of describing threats due to possible geological disasters such as volcanoes...you get the picture. I found myself wishing at every chapter that the author had given more detail and provided more background on the threats he desribes. My bottom line? If you are also a doom and gloom person, save your money and wait for the paperback; there's enough in here to keep you mildly entertained, even if none of it is particularly new. If you're not into contemplating the destruction of the earth, skip this book entirely.	2003-09-18
US	48775278	R379TD3VSH94XD	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	48	53	N	Y	Wonderful Overview of Science and Scientists	I think this book should replace the texts used in most high school science courses.  If it did, I think we would see more kids pursuing science careers, because Bryson does a wonderful job of conveying the joy and excitement of doing science as well as a sense of awe that our world evolved as it did.<br />Sure, given a book of this nature, there is plenty people could quibble with.  Bryson's writing style is amusing and entertaining, though it doesn't come close to matching &quot;A walk in the woods,&quot; (but then again, not much could...).  Readers expecting the humor quotient of that book or Bryson's other travel books will be disappointed, however.  And although one can tell Bryson struggled valiantly to make the chapter on quantum physics understandable, he didn't succeed (at least for me).  For example, he relates a study showing that one atomic particle can affect another atomic particle 70 miles away, simultaneously.  I still don't understand how that can happen and wish somebody could explain it to me.<br />But those are minor complaints compared to what this book is able to accomplish, which is to provide a broad, yet admirably detailed, education in the physical and biological sciences.  I am overjoyed to see this book on the bestseller lists, because if enough people read it, we can no longer be accused of being the scientific ignoramuses that we largely have been.  I think it could also work to serve more effectively as an environmental wake-up call than the wide array of existing polemical books that are read only by the already convinced.<br />Lastly, perhaps the aspect of the book I admired and enjoyed the most is the way Bryson provides the human side of science through his frequent character sketches of the quirks and foibles of the many scientists whose work is reviewed.  I may soon forget, once again, all three of Newton's laws of motion, but I will never--for the rest of my life--forget that he once inserted a rod behind his eyeball and stirred it around &quot;just to see what would happen.&quot;  This book is worth reading just for the anecdotes, and along the way you will learn an incredible amount of science.red it around &quot;just to see what would happen.&quot;  This book is worth reading just for the anecdotes, and along the way you will learn an incredible amount of science.	2003-08-13
US	48775278	RW3ZCDFL90HJC	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	5	41	46	N	Y	A beautiful and moving novel	Some books you read and enjoy because they keep you entertained while you are reading them, but then you put them back on the shelf and essentially forget them.  More rarely, you read a book that stays with you long after you have finished it.  This book is one of those rare ones, and it is one of the best novels I have read in months or even years.  If you are hesitating to buy it because you aren't interested in autism, I would encourage you to try it anyway.  The narration by an autistic teenager does indeed give the book a unique perspective, but it is by no means only a \\"book about autism.\\"  Instead, the novel grapples with themes relevant to anybody's life, such as love, family duty, betrayal, and trust.<br />Having said that, I will acknowledge that the author has accomplished a tremendous writing feat in adopting the perspective of a boy with autism, and I admire his writing style enormously.  Somehow he is able to evoke strong emotional reactions in the reader while narrating events in a dispassionate, \\"just the facts\\" style devoid of any affect: Christopher writes of his mother's death in exactly the same tone as he does the death of a neighbor's dog. Yet somehow this style works--when Christopher notes that \\"there were tears running down Father's face,\\" the reader knows that this calm observation has no emotional impact for Christopher, but the reader grasps the context and feels like crying, too.<br />Another aspect of this novel I admired greatly is that Haddon does not romanticize or sugarcoat the world of special needs individuals.  According to the biographical material, Haddon has been a teacher of students with developmental disorders, and his description of the abilities and traits of a teenager with autism ring true.  Unlike most Hollywood portrayals of autism (think \\"Rainman,\\" which was exceedingly unrealistic), the character of Christopher displays not only the unique gifts but also the tremendous parenting challenges associated with autism.  He is a math whiz, but he also frequently wets himself, and when he is overwhelmed in public places, he groans or screams until taken away. While there is no tidy happy ending to this story --like any autistic person, Christopher will not experience a miraculous \\"cure\\"-- the reader nonetheless ends up with a sincere admiration for Chistopher's strength and courage, as well as that of Christopher's family.e is a math whiz, but he also frequently wets himself, and when he is overwhelmed in public places, he groans or screams until taken away. While there is no tidy happy ending to this story --like any autistic person, Christopher will not experience a miraculous \\"cure\\"-- the reader nonetheless ends up with a sincere admiration for Chistopher's strength and courage, as well as that of Christopher's family.	2003-06-23
US	48775278	R3FNUSCDEG45HN	0374524777	843669949	Getting What You Came For: The Smart Student's Guide to Earning an M.A. or a Ph.D.	Books	5	260	261	N	Y	Covers almost all the crucial topics	As a college professor, I am always on the lookout for a good source to help undergraduates who are contemplating getting a Ph.D. as well as to help graduate students succeed in their Ph.D. program.  This book is one of the best in this genre I have come across.  Although the author is a biologist, it is clear he has done his homework on other disciplines, and his advice is useful for graduate students in any field.<br />  One of the most impressive features of the book is its comprehensive coverage.  From improving one's credentials to get into a graduate program to getting a job once you have the Ph.D., Peters has detailed, entertaining advice for all the steps one encounters along the way.  Liberally sprinkled through the book are anecdotes from students in a variety of fields that will leave most of us thankful that we did not have the Ph.D. advisors  these poor hapless souls did.<br />  Indeed, there were only two aspects I wish the book would have covered but it did not.  First, there is no mention of handling coursework in a graduate program.  This is probably because coursework and course grades are of much lower priority in graduate school than it is for the undergraduate degree, but I think Peters could have made this point and encouraged readers not to fall into the trap of spending more time on coursework than is warranted.<br />  Second, I wish Peters had devoted more space to talking about getting academic jobs.  College-level teaching is still the single most popular career goal for Ph.D.'s, and there are aspects of getting an academic job that are different than applying for jobs in the private sector.  I wish he had written a separate chapter on academic jobs.<br />  In a related vein, there was only one piece of advice that Peters give that I flat-out disagreed with, and that was his comment that teaching wastes time and that Ph.D. students should avoid teaching as much as possible.  This is true for many Ph.D. students, but it is definitely NOT true for Ph.D. students desiring teaching jobs at 4-year, liberal arts colleges.  Those jobs will want to see ample teaching experience, not just as a teaching assistant but also as sole instructor of a course.  A student who does not have considerable teaching experience will not be competitive for those jobs, and because there are more of those jobs available than tenure track lines at research universities, taking Peters' advice on that score could be ultimately self-defeating.<br />  However, those are the only negative comments I would make on an otherwise excellent book.  I recommend it highly for anybody even contemplating going on beyond an undergraduate degree, and I plan to give copies of it to all my incoming graduate students.e for Ph.D. students desiring teaching jobs at 4-year, liberal arts colleges.  Those jobs will want to see ample teaching experience, not just as a teaching assistant but also as sole instructor of a course.  A student who does not have considerable teaching experience will not be competitive for those jobs, and because there are more of those jobs available than tenure track lines at research universities, taking Peters' advice on that score could be ultimately self-defeating.<BR>   However, those are the only negative comments I would make on an otherwise excellent book.  I recommend it highly for anybody even contemplating going on beyond an undergraduate degree, and I plan to give copies of it to all my incoming graduate students.	2002-03-06
