US	48819053	RMWNNUCT8F5GB	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	3 1/2 stars If I could....	Eversince the Duke and I, I've become an avid fan of Julia Quinn.  I've read almost all of her books and all are not only romantic but full of laughs as well.  She is definitely witty and knows how to weave magical stories.   However....<br />Romancing Mr. Bridgerton is the 4th installment of Julia Quinn's-The Bridgerton series.  This may be my least favorite out of the four but mind you, it still merits 3 stars as it was an entertaining read.   I noticed that Ms. Quinn didn't waste time retelling or even summarizing the previous book on this series.  She updates you with the previous characters, and even uses them as secondary characters but none of those \\"skipping-pages-bec-i-know-this-part-already\\" on this book series.  In fact, you can pretty much read these books as an  individual without feeling lost.  But I still suggest you read the whole series for an add-on smile on your face when you read the updates...<br />I will not rehash the plot or the story anymore as most have already done it.  I will just add that however entertaining this book may be, I find the romance between the H & H a little too light.  I also find Colin's character lacking.   I guess I wanted him to be the bold one in this story.  Seems to me that Penelope sorta overshadowed him a little bit (and to think she was a wallflower!).  He does show his manliness in some areas but I still feel a little unsatisfied.  On the outside, Colin was an adventurer, carefree and playful but inside, he was filled with insecurities.  Uncertain about himself...  He hid himself by smiling coolly or playing the smoothie.  Penelope however is an almost true-to-life character.  Not very pretty, not so fashionable, not so rich and in fact a \\"wallflower\\" for so many years.  But she compensated her imperfections with her intelligence.  That I like.  And her intelligence is what captivated Colin.  That I like too.  None of those superficial physical love-at-first-sight here, that's for sure.  I also liked the idea ofPenelope learning more about herself and what she can actually be.  Sometimes, it takes TIME and another person to encourage us to be who we can be.  So the beauty of this book is that both Colin and Penelope benefited each other by filling the hole on each other's soul and personality.  I also do like friendship-first in my romance books but in this instance, the frienship-love-story was somewhat slow in the beginning.  I'm also still skeptical as to how the love suddenly came in to both of them.  Maybe not so much to Penelope because  I know she always had her heart for Colin but Colin's love seems too fast to have happened.  There wasn't any challenge in their love story either.  A little effort on Colin's part in pursuing Penelope would be nice.  I wished my heart skipped a beat once in awhile while I read on but it didn't.  Even the marriage proposal was too facile.  Colin and Penelope romance just didn't soar my heart.  <br />The revelation of Lady Whistledown was a complete surprise to me.  Some people told me that they knew from the previous book who L.W. is... My, I didn't know!  Didn't even know who it was until 1/2 of this book.  I must say, It's not who or what I expected.   I have to read The Duke and I, Viscount Who Love Me & An Offer From A Gentleman all over again...  I want to see which clues have I missed.   I would have given this book a 3 1/2 stars if I could. Overall, this book is entertaining though definitely not Ms. Quinn's best.	2003-04-01
US	48819053	RWTADXAQKJU1N	0380792028	726577953	Glorious Angel (Southern Series)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Mediocre	First, read Amazon synopsis for book summary...<br />This is a very light read for me, especially one that's of Johanna Lindsey's work.  The plot is quite simple; The twists are mostly predictable; The conflicts are a bit too easy; The characters are a bit unpolished; but I considered the fact that this is one of Ms. Lindsey's earlier works that is why I wasn't totally turned off.  I also don't think this book merits lower than 3 stars because i was able to finish this book in less than 5 hours.  I guess, u can say that overall, it is an easy and a light read.  Yes, there is no topsy-turvy or overwhelming heart effects here yet I can't say it's boring either...  I've read lots of Ms. Lindsey's recent works and she is definitely much improved today as a writer/story teller. So, if you are a first time Lindsey reader then I suggest you start with her latter works.	2002-07-11
US	48819053	R3M16MF5D69VSF	0843949325	706690115	The Dragon Lord	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Sugar &amp; Spice...	Now here's another Connie Mason book that'll definitely keep u on your toes.  It's fast and absorbing.  The characters were desirable even the secondary ones.  Dominic and Rose are both pridefull in their own rights.  They're confident, tough, spunky and arrogant.  Yet both are also loving, patient and gentle.  They always find themselves in the battle of wills,  they clash many times but unconsciously both were looking forward to the challenge of taming each other and the process was an enjoyable read. Some of Roses antics and stubbornness were a bit off but the consequences were exciting which made this book even more compelling.  There is definitely lots of challenge in their relationship, aside  from the nervy political dilemma of loyalty vs. righteousness, Dominic's conniving ex-mistress, Veronica is one of my favorite parts.  Her character was well done.  She's the added heart wretching spice in this book. Oh, as always in all of Ms. Mason's work, the lovemaking scenes sizzles!<br />I also enjoyed the political conflicts of this book concerning the MAGNA CARTA &amp; King John Lackland.  He's so overbearing, false-hearted &amp; devious.  His betraying ways is so unpredictable that it scares the heck out of me!  He is capable of almost anything and have the power to achieve it too.  This is the added thrill to the story. <br />I notice a slight anachronism in terms of the dialogue but it's not excessive to distract me.  I manage to by pass that flaw only because overall, this book is both sugar and spice.  It's fast, funny, exciting &amp; heart warming.  One you shouldn't miss. Thank you, Ambrangel for suggesting this book to me.	2001-12-05
US	48819053	R3R33LI4QXZ3EC	0609611003	282856370	The Plains of Passage (Earth's Children)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Another Average Read...	Earth Children Series: <br />1.)THE CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS<br />2.)THE VALLEY OF HORSES<br />3.)THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS<br />4.)PLAINS OF PASSAGE<br />5.)THE SHELTERS OF STONE <br />This fourth segment of Jean Auel's Earth Series is Ayla and Jondalar journey to Jondalar's home, Zelandonii. Inasmuch as I wanted to like this book so much, i find it rather an average read with some tedious parts here and there.  Mind you, there's some interesting points and even memorable moments - such as the encounters of hostile and friendly people, overcoming challenges that's in their way and the new discoveries... but I agree with one reviewer here from U.K., this book concentrated too much on their travelling; with too much descriptions of animals, plants and landscapes that there's very little relationship developement between Ayla and Jondalar.  It's just not enough to feel hearty towards them. In fact, Ayla and Jondalars relationship and even their dialogues seemed old.  Same as the last book.  Nothing New, nothing exciting... Even the horses and Wolf antics seemed old and bland.  Also, Jondalar's character seems to be weakening; always hesistating, unsure of himself while Ayla remained overly confident yet is willing to be in the shadow. In a way, this is quite heart warming.  Ayla loves Jondalar &amp; will do anything for him.  She doesn't want to hurt him or to make him feel little or unneeded yet I feel unsatisfied reading Ayla this way.  I prefer the old Ayla.  <br />I have always been a romance book reader so perhaps this explains my average opinion of this book.  I admire Jean Auel's extensive research in Botany and Zoology, even the study of the unfolding of the Earth. On that area, this book has many adventurous moments but most of it just didn't pull me in.  I prefer human characters, human contacts and relationship developments... I guess I'm simply not the type who appreciates reading materials with detailed ways and life of plants and animals.   I was also distractedwith the many short summarizations from the previous books. It became a repetitive infos and was a bit annoying.  Those part I skipped. Jean Auel is also a bit verbose, well, maybe too verbose. Out of the four books, i think this is the least I liked.  I hope Ms. Auel will make it up on her next 2 novels, which took her 11 years to write.   There's still so many questions in my mind that left me hanging.  For one, I want to know who Ayla's original family is.  Where and what tribe or camp or people was she born to?  I am also anticipating Durc's appearance in this series, as well as Ayla's upcoming pregnancy.  It will also be exciting to read her adjustments to Jondalar's people and vice versa.  So despite this simple and average read, I am still looking forward in reading THE SHELTERS OF THE STONE.	2001-12-03
US	48819053	R2LRK2X02QF16Y	0505523388	202269657	Tonight or Never (Legendary Lovers)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	A 3 1/2 Stars Read...	This is my first book of Dara Joy and I shall read more of her works, especially of the Black Rose and the 7 Cyns.  I must admit, the plot was light but have potential.  The mystery-action twist was a bit too weak &amp; even predictable but not dragging.  It has its moment of curiosity and engrossment.   The characters wasn't impressive yet likable.  Although, the relationship development of John and Chloe was a little too easy and too soft for my liking.  I wanted a heart retching rift or even a little misunderstanding to make their story more hearty.  Since John was the initially portrayed as Lord of Sex, I wanted to see a third party involved or at least a mistress who would be a problem between them.  Not necessarily for him to commit adultery but a challenging situation, at least. Or anything that would be a convincing proof of his savvy reputation as a Rake.  Seems like the Lord of Sex reformed way too quickly to sound exciting or convincing.   Yet, mind you,  Chloe and John together are never dull.   Oh no, their fiery love play &amp; sex scenes are definitely hot and sizzling.  Passionately written.  <br />This book is also full of humor.  The witty dialogues between the characters are a chuckle and a laugh out loud moments.  I love the French love words and Latin quotes.  <br />If you like a light, enjoyable read then this one is good enough to pass your time.	2001-12-03
US	48819053	R1BBNX2AAK677	0517556278	827783340	The Mammoth Hunters-Earth's Children	Books	4	0	1	N	N	More like 4 1/2 stars ...	Earth Children Series: <br />1.)THE CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS<br />2.)THE VALLEY OF HORSES<br />3.)THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS<br />4.)PLAINS OF PASSAGE<br />5.)THE SHELTERS OF STONE <br />The adventure of the strong willed Ayla continues in this 3rd segment of Jean Auel's Earth Children Series. In Clan of the Cave Bear, She lived with \\"Flatheads\\" or Clan people; learning, adjusting, accepting their cultures and belief as her own. In The Valley of the Horses, She lived, learned (mostly by accidents) and survived on her own, alone for over 3 years with only animals as her companions (until Jondalar came). Here, in THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS, we read Ayla's heart warming first hand experience/interaction with people of her own kind, \\"Others\\" as she use to call them. There was fear and hesistation at first, fear of the unknown and rejection but as easily as it came, Ayla realized she wasn't shunned since she look just like them. Unconsciously, Ayla slowly drawned herself to these strangers who invited her and Jondalar to their camp as guest. Even her unusual practices and manners was eventually viewed as a unique quality to looked upon. Her attributes and her talent in medicinal herbs enhanced her value to these people. She was soon adopted by this people who called themselves, The Mamutoi (The Mammoth Hunters). Ayla who struggled all her life to be accepted have finally got her wishes. Ayla of No People finally belonged... She became Ayla of Mamutoi. <br />But Ayla is still searching for a place called HOME. She haven't forgotten her son, Durc and her heart belonged to Jondalar but he is a Zelandonii, who will eventually go back to his own people. Despite Ayla's feeling of belonginess, there is still much more that she is searching for. The Mamutoi people are all hearty characters, I enjoyed them all, especially the flirty and magnetic Ranec, who wants Ayla to share his hearth, and is Jondalars strong competition for Ayla's heart. In this book, we'll also know more of Jondalar. His emotional depths and confusions, his love for Ayla yet his unwillingness to fully accept her past. His preconceptions towards the CLAN still lingers and his fear of being rejected by his own people because of Ayla's past clouded his heart. Will he overcome this and find answers to his confusions? Both Ranec and Jondalar are utterly loving and even I can't seem to decide which is better for her. Which would Ayla choose? The man who loves him without conditions or the man he loves, who distance himself from her? <br />Out of the four books in this series, this one is what I liked best. Perhaps it is because I've always been a Romance book reader and in this book, Ayla's love life is concentrated on. She is learning more about matters of the heart and her feminity. I did enjoy her other adventures, no doubt. The descriptions of the daily life routine of the Mamotoi was enthralling. Their habit wasn't as different as the Clans. Ayla applied and shared all her knowledge to the Mamutoi. Her practices from her previous CLAN, from her accidental findings when she was alone and now her newly learned practices from the Mamutoi, mixed it together and the outcome was advantageous. The details of the medicinal herbs, hunting, spear-throwing, tool-making are an interesting read too but the love triangle between Ayla, Ranec and Jandolar is my favorite of all. [...] PLAINS OF PASSAGE is next [...]. Shelters of the Stone is still coming, 2002. I can't wait!	2001-12-01
US	48819053	R19ULDK590UYRW	0553250531	142638345	The Valley of Horses (Earth's Children, Book 2)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Average Read...	Earth Children Series: <br />1.)THE CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS<br />2.)THE VALLEY OF HORSES<br />3.)THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS<br />4.)PLAINS OF PASSAGE<br />5.)THE SHELTERS OF STONE <br />The adventurous life of Ayla continues here in The Valley Of The Horses. This time she is no longer a child of 5 but 17 years old, living on her own for three years after being cursed and banished by the Clan who once adopted and accepted her. Here, we read the heart wretching moments of her loneliness, as well as her courage for survival. Although, some parts are a bit repetitive and flimsy, the experiementings, discoverings, trials and errors are an interesting read. I find Ayla's animal companions heart warming, her determination inspiring. <br />In this book, we are also introduce to Jondalar, a handsome &amp; charasmatic Zelandonii, who travelled with his brother Thonolan's, searching for adventure. The brothers story have some appealing moments but it dragged on a little too much for my liking. I find myself skipping pages, anticipating the meeting of Ayla and Jondalar, which unfortunately didn't occur until the chapter 19th of this book (and 10 chapters later, the book ended. Imagine that!). For me, it took too long for both characters to finally meet up. Also, Thonolan's story seemed to distract me, perhaps I just didn't grasp the point of his story in this book. Nevertheless, Jondalar is an exciting character for Ayla. I enjoyed this book more as soon as the two met up. They not only learned about each other but from each other. After breaking the communication barrier, they shared ideas, exchange customs and experiences... then came the acceptance and love. I find their relationship a challenge, as well as intriguing.<br />However, I am sad to admit that this book didn't create a lasting impression on me. Compared to THE CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS, this one just didn't seem to completely move me nor did it captivated me. It is overall an average read, which I would still recommend especially to those who have started the Earth Childrens Series. I am hoping that the 3rd book of the series,THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS will be more to my liking.	2001-11-26
US	48819053	R1L8O3103CBBUQ	0517189186	302380866	Clan of the Cave Bear (Earth's Children)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Interesting, Adventurous and Heart Warming...	Earth Children Series: <br />1.)THE CLAN OF THE CAVE BEARS<br />2.)THE VALLEY OF HORSES<br />3.)THE MAMMOTH HUNTERS<br />4.)PLAINS OF PASSAGE<br />5.)THE SHELTERS OF STONE <br />What more can I say that 244 Amazon reviewers has not.  This book is full of adventure and it let readers see through the past, on how early humans (cro-mags) live their life.  Their cultures, beliefs, custom and tradition.  Ayla, being born to Others was found almost dying by one of the Clan of the Cave Bears.  She was eventually adopted by them and have to adjust to her new family, new environment.  The challenge was overwhelming and I ache for the little girl.  But then again, this is also where I admire her courage, strength and determination.  The affection between Ayla, Creb and Iza was a heart warming read.  I admit some parts of this book falls a bit verbose, other parts I find a bit far fetch or a bit hard to believe considering the time plot.  I am not an Anthropologist so I may be wrong but Ayla's intelligence of finding and realizing things on her own sometimes left me doubtful especially for a girl her age.  However, it's really not too deep to distract me.  In fact, it piqued my interest all the more and made me read on.  Overall, this book is imaginative, educational, entertaining and worth your time.  <br />This is definitely a different reading material compare to my usual historical romance novels but I am thankful my mother in law suggested this book to me.  It's the first of Ms. Auel's Earth Children Series.  I am now in the middle of the second book of the series and so far, it is as interesting as this one.  My mother in law waited 10 years for the fifth installment of this series and I'm glad I don't have to wait that long. It'll be out next year, 2002.	2001-11-21
US	48819053	R2Y8BPRFT0VSN9	0449004864	93203846	Desire (Notorious)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	3 1/2 stars - Not Bad Yet Not Memorable Either...	I have waited for this third segment of Nicole Jordan's Notorious series with high expectations because I've enjoyed both prequels very much.  I find myself a bit disappointed on this one, however. Lucian and Brynn's story was a bit simple for me.  The plot have some pulling moments but needed more enhancements for full exciting effect.  The gypsy curse was interesting in the beginning yet not properly resolved towards the end for me to find it credible enough. I was also not specially taken with both the hero/heroine's characters.  They are well liked, yes but not to the extent for me to find them hearty.  They're not quite as challenging as Damien and Vanessa in THE SEDUCTION nor were they intriguing as Nicholas and Aurora in THE PASSION. However, the intimacy of Lucian and Brynn is consistent with the prequels.  It does have  full sensual effects.  It's fun, tasty and not lurid in my opinion.  <br />Another niggle about this book is my own personal preferences.  See, I LOVE book sequels/trilogy/series.  I enjoy keeping track of the characters on my books, especially those I favor.   However, I also expect authors to write updates of the previous characters.  Even just a tiny bit.  It brings back old fun memories and it's heart warming to read some short new infos of how these characters are doing.  It is afterall what a sequel or series is expected of, isn't it?  In this particular book, it is so unbelievable that Damien Sinclair (who happends to be a very good friend of the Earl of Wycliff) and Nicholas Sabine (who's a cousin of Lucien) didn't have any appearance in this book at all. Just a mention of their names but no appearances whatsoever.  I was very disappointed in this matter. <br />Compared to THE SEDUCTION and THE PASSION, DESIRE unfortunately fell short. It's not what I have expected.  However, it is still somewhat an enjoyable read.  <br />The fourth book of the Notorious Series is ECSTACY, Story of Raven, Nicholas Sabine's sister.  Coming Fall 2002.I hope Raven's story would be more to my liking and would include UPDATES of the previous characters.	2001-11-16
US	48819053	R38F75MUS4H6V0	0373834799	280678265	A Season For Scandal: Tangled Reins\Fair Juno	Books	2	14	17	N	N	GeeeZzzzzzzz!  Double Jeopardy??	My goodness, I have never read such a tedious book in all of my life.  It's so boring, I feel like weeping!  I am sorry Ms. Laurens and to those who are a fan of hers.  I have tried and tried to continue reading this book but each page just simply didn't enthralled me.  Worst, it makes me sleepy.  It's a good sleeping therapy, I say!  It took me 5 days, 5 days of dragging myself just to get to the 200+ pages and still no excitement building up.  So, finally, I have given up.  -- CLOSE THE BOOK --<br />I have griped about books that I THOUGHT were overly detailed and have lots of unnecessary/repetitive descriptions but after this one, I'll think twice before complaining so again.  Never have I read one as bad as this book.  Talk about EXTREMES!  OVER-detailing is an understatement to describe this one.  Perhaps I could even bypass this flaw if scenes were interesting enough and not repetitive.  Ugh!  Cut it and get to the point.  This is simply not for me.  The hero and the heroine in the first story, Tangled Reins, Marc and Dorothea's character was no help at all either.  Both are just too unlikable for me to continue on... No character development, no foreplay or byplay, no sexual tension, no love... what's left?  None... just 2 characters in motion.  At least, they're moving!  Aside from the plot (What plot?), the writing style also made this book more tiresome.  It's too compacted, no spaces or next line to seperate dialogues (not that there's much of dialogues there anyways).  I guess this is needed to save space for the next story.  Again, it isn't my kind of book. <br />I have never rated 1 star in any of my book readings.  I told myself that I'll only rate 1 star to a book that I couldn't finish at all and I even told myself that this will never happend or I'll surely rue that day.  Alas, the day has come!   However,  now that I am thinking about it (and perhaps I am just being generous), it certainly isn't fair to rate this book a 1 star just because I COULDN'T finish it.  I rated it two stars instead because who knows the second story, FAIR JUNO would come out better or perhaps who knows the ending of the first story, Tangled Reins, might suddenly improved. READ IT YOURSELF.  I, on the other hand, simply don't have the inclination whatsoever to find out.  Sorry, this is my first of Stephanie Laurens and I am the kind of person who never say never... but, at this moment, if asked to read one of her works, I would most politely decline. (This is suppose to be one of her earlier works so perhaps that explains it).  I am sorry, Ms. Laurens and her fans.  Once again, this is only my opinion.  Read it anyway, esp. if you are a fan of hers.  Who knows you might enjoy it more than I have.	2001-11-08
US	48819053	RGP09XYAF5Z3G	0380808021	64677253	A Breath of Scandal	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Sexy Romp...	This book is a sequel to A TASTE OF SIN, which is one of my favorite HRN.  I've always wondered about Julian, elder brother of Sinjun in the prequel.  He was described as a very honorable &amp; responsible person albeit mysterious.  He live by the rules and is over protective of his family.  He also have a dark personal mission.  To find the person responsible for the death of his fiancee.  His character here in A Breathe of Scandal is consistent but is of course more detailed.  We learn more about him and he is definitely not the prude man I thought he was in ATOS.  In fact, he is a very passionate man.  On one of his secret mission he was rescued my a gypsy woman named Lara.  She claimed him as his husband to save his life.  Yes, Lara did save him from death but she also added complication to his well contained heart &amp; well organized life.  What a riot!  I love Lara's character.  She is no nonsense and straight forward.  She knows who she is and what she wants regardless of her new station in life.  Sometimes she feels she doesn't fit in outside the Gypsy world yet she adapts well and never loses her personality.  The Gypsies and their way of life was an interesting read for me.  This is my first book with such kind of plot &amp; the way Ms. Mason explains and describes it makes me feel like I am inside the book.  It grabs my imagination.  A Gypsy woman versus a Noble sure have a big difference in their ways of living and belief.  Interesting!  The relationship development of Julian &amp; Lara is heart warming.  They are both full of desire despite the contradiction of their mind. There's lots of sex scenes but I didn't mind it.  For me, it's written with passion.  You can feel their affection and not just lust.  Of course, there's always the usual confusions and misunderstanding twist but there is also some element of surprises between them.     <br />The action and mystery line was a bit light and predictable, however since I am not much on action/mystery, this didn't bother me at all. Just thought I'd mention it here for others who prefer heavy action/mystery added on their romance books.  <br />The appearance of the characters in A TASTE OF SIN was one of the best part for me.  I love reading updates of the characters from my previous books especially if they are my favorites.  The Epilogue of this book was simply perfect.  It's happy, filled with love, family &amp; children. Goose bumps alert :-)  <br />The reason why this book didn't belong to a five star rate to me is because of the added romance of Emma and Rudy.  I loved Emma's spunky character in A TASTE OF SIN and couldn't wait to read her very own story.  I didn't expect her to simply be an extra piece here in A BREATHE OF SCANDAL.  I didn't mind her marriage with Rudy, I think it's fitting but I would have love to read how she tamed Rudy.  I just want more of her.  Oh well, that's only a small niggle which unfortunately took one star out of my overall rating.	2001-11-08
US	48819053	RGV274FFVL380	0553581007	411900271	Dark Dreams (Last T'en Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Fascination continues...	If someone suggested a sci-fi/fantasy/adventure/romance novel to me, I'd probably refuse to read it and will rue the day, esp. if it's anything like Broken Vows &amp; Dark Dreams.  I am a historical-romance book reader and haven't really ventured out of that genre yet.  But Cory Daniells T'En trilogy definitely caught me off guard.  When I picked up Broken Vows and Dark Dreams, I thought it's another one of my historical-romance reading material, didn't know until the first few chapters when the formula and plot seems different to me.  However, I was right away drawn to it and wouldn't have it any other way.  <br />The fascination continues here in Dark Dreams, which started from the first book in the trilogy, Broken Vows.  In this 2nd book, we find new discoveries and answers to some questions in the first book.  We'll know more of the Reothe, the last T'En warrior. Here, Reothe character is enhanced, so is his T'En power and his weaknesses.  We'll learn more of the T'En legends &amp; the Fair Isle history, which I'll add is rich and extremely enthralling.  The T'En, Ghebites, the Church people, True-people continue to clash but now there's a new traitor from within!  <br />The relationship between Imoshen and the General also continues to grow especially with the born of their son.  In fact, here we see how much they are both strongly drawn to each other despite all the conflicts.  There's acceptance and compromise now.  Not to mention, a withholding trust.  Love is apparent despite the denials.  Tulkhan continues to hold himself in check because he feels expose to Imoshen.  But eventually, we'll see just how vulnerable he really is.  While Imoshen was often times feeling lost in Broken Vows, here we see her become more confident as she discovers more of herself, her capabilities, as well as her vulnerabilities.  <br />The ending of Dark Dreams is emotionally hanging.  All the &quot;what if's&quot; got me thinking about this story for days.  I can't wait to read the conclusion of this trilogy. Unfortunately, I have to wait till next year.  I am sure it will be worth all the anticipation.<br />New discoveries, continued adjustments, heart warming relationships, intriguing politics, heavy jealousy, thrilling treachery and the captivating, magical world of The T'En Trilogy continues here in Dark Dreams...  A MUST READ!	2001-11-06
US	48819053	RZ4AEXJSHH3Q1	0553580973	258049718	Broken Vows (Last T'en Trilogy)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fascinating!	If someone suggested a sci-fi/fantasy/adventure/romance novel to me, I'd probably refuse to read it and will rue the day, esp. if it's anything like this Broken Vows. I am a historical-romance book reader and haven't really ventured out of that genre yet. But Cory Daniells T'En trilogy definitely caught me off guard. When I picked up this book, I thought it's another one of my historical-romance reading material, didn't know until the first few chapters when the formula and plot seems different to me. However, I was right away drawn to it and wouldn't have it any other way. <br />Broken Vows fascinated me in many ways. The notion of the character's behavior & distinctive traits are unique yet believable. It's not too alienated or too deep of a sci-fi for me. In fact, I find T'Imoshen perfect despite her Throwback traits. I love her character and she is one of my favorite heroine, for sure. She's well portrayed, with quality and deep emotions. Ms. Daniells words of description will make u see through her. I was even teary eyed many times and my heart quenches when she was so confuse, feeling lost & alone. I felt proud of her when she always manages to stand tall despite her emotional havoc . What makes Tulkham lovable to me is his way of leadership. Yes, he is arrogant, even a bit harsh at times yet fair. His acceptance to learn the Fair Isle's culture was also something not to take lightly upon considering his position. He is indeed honorable and a great tactician, politician. I also find it heart warming that both T'Imoshen and Tulkham fear each other in different degree. Fear of change, fear of the unknown and fear of being controlled and manipulated. Their relationship started out as political strategy but you can feel the essence of their affection, though cloaked to protect ones weakness: FEAR. The ceremonial rituals, magic spells and procedure, superstitious belief, etc was another intriguing part of this novel. It's very well written. Ms. Daniells' is truly agreat story teller. The difference between the Ghebite and the T'En culture was my favorite concept of all. Both are very opposite and have different insights of everything. I even find some of this insights a bit amusing. I am normally not fond of paranormal plots (except medieval era) and I even shun from mind-reading characters but this one is surprisingly an exemption. It's unpredictable, giving readers rush of excitement. Overall, this book is full of adventure and emotional depth. It soars not only your heart but also your imagination. I love it! <br />(...)DARK DREAMS, is the 2nd book of this T'En trilogy. The fascination continues! Sadly, The conclusion won't be out till summer 2002. Oh, I can't wait!	2001-11-01
US	48819053	R1Y606XBT6DDJR	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another New But Worthy Author...	I've never read a romance novel using the &quot;Black death&quot; as plot before.  I've read/heard of it in school but have never read it used in any of my historical romance readings.  That is why I find this book very interesting.  I'm impressed by the way Ms. Hunter did her research regarding this topic.  She also implemented it very well.  She mixed the facts with fiction, narrating it so vividly, you can almost feel the fear and sadness of the people.  The deep insight of someone who's expecting/waiting to die was spine chilling and heart breaking at the same time.  <br />Anna and Morvan's love story is convincing and beautiful.  Started out as strangers, then honor bound to help each other, formed a special friendship then it flourished to love.  Of course, between all that, there's the battle of wills &amp; small rebellions here and there.  There's lots of trial and error, learning &amp; adjusting to one another.  The best part of their relationship, in my opinion, is the compromise.  The bargaining, the offering and the acceptance.  Utterly heart warming!<br />I notice a slight anachronism especially in the heroines character and attitude but I manage to bypass that part and simply enjoy it as it is, mainly because the overall story was truly well written.  Characters are brilliantly put together and even the action scenes, which I'm normally not fond of, surprisingly excited me.  There's none of those horrendous and overly detailed battle scenes.  It's simple, fast and straight to the point but not lacking at all.  Just the way I like it.<br />This is only my first book of Madeline Hunter and certainly not the last.  I have already ordered all of her previous books, the BY ARRANGEMENT (story of Morvan's sister), BY POSSESSION and BY DESIGN.  All three are all supposedly linked together.  LORD OF A THOUSAND NIGHTS (story of Ian) is Madeline Hunter's upcoming novel, which is also connected to Morvan. I wonder if he is the same Ian, kinsman of Elizabeth in this book. Well, I certainly can't wait to read all of Madeline Hunter's work.  I hope she is as good as the ravings. But if she uses the same style and keeps up this kind of manner in her writing here in THE PROTECTOR,  then I shall not be disappointed.	2001-10-30
US	48819053	R6R6XV48EX2O4	067168972X	411049844	The Duchess (Montgomery/Taggert)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Decently entertaining...	I've read lots of Jude Deveraux works and her Montgomery-Taggert Saga is my favorite of all of her works.  I've enjoyed most of her books and this isn't an exception.  THE DUCHESS is a decent and entertaining read, no doubt.  The characters are very likable and interesting, even the secondary ones. Though I confess Trevelyan isn't a strong and appealing MONTGOMERY as I expected him to be, but still likable nonetheless.  Trevelyan and Claire's personality are different from my usual read.  They are both scholarly and are not overly handsome or beautiful.  It's their interest in books and adventure that drawned them together.  Their love story was alright to me, passionate but not as challenging.  In my opinion, they need more of a worthy rift for me to find their relationship exciting.  I loved Brat, younger sister of Claire and wished her relationship with her sister was more profound.  It's touchy how she pretends not to care for Claire.  I really love their sis-to-sis relationship and was hoping for a heart warming confession between the two.  Brat is indeed a hearty character and is worthy of her own book.  I was a bit disappointed on who she married in the end, I feel she deserves a stronger character.  The plot have a bit of everything in it -mystery, adventure, humor,  romance, suspense and a bit of action twist... though I am afraid to say that the mystery, suspense and romance needed a bit of polishing.  I was also expecting a big bang in the end or a grand finale but it seems like the story ended a bit too soon and sadly, a bit too lacking.  I wanted more confrontation and scenes with Eugenia.  The children versus their evil mother scene would have been an interesting read.   But no, she seems to simply just disappear too easily.  That wasn't convincing enough for me.  If  Eugenia is indeed as hateful and evil as she was portrayed,  wouldn't she fight till the end?  She worked too hard and too long to just simply give up and move out.  And let's say, she did got tired and decided to give up, I sure would have love to read what she has to say, wouldn't you?  A hearty apology or a retribution is what I was expecting and got none.  Like I said, it was just all too easy and came out as lacking towards the end.... Even on the Epilogue, Jude Deveraux mentioned most of the characters with their beautiful family but seemed to have forgotten to mentioned Trevelyans and Claires marriage or offsprings.  She mentioned their books, their travels and their adventure but what about their love, marriage and offsprings?  <br />Well, overall, this book isn't bad.  It has its moment of humor and passion.  Entertaining most of the time but not Jude Deveraux's best work.  Far from it!	2001-10-28
US	48819053	R22N6IEONG9VX6	0440226015	466643093	More than a Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	4 1/2 stars - Excellent Read	READ AMAZON BOOK SYNOPSIS:<br />This is my first book of Mary Balogh and definitely not the last.  I was hesistant to read this book in the beginning because of the book cover and the way it is titled.  Even the back description didn't sound interesting either.  I thought this is one of those books that's filled with sex with no substance whatsoever but I am happy to be wrong.  <br />Sure, the plot's simple and not very unique, I even find the solution of the original problem a bit too easy but Mary Balogh made it up by weaving humor and emotional rift all through out the book.  She also compensated the thin plot by creating and executing smashing characters.  Every one of them contributed wonderfully.  Jocelyn and Jane's are both a memorable character.  Jane, however is who I love the most.  She is a Lady through and through.  I've read heroine that is witty and even described as intelligent but Jane is the only one so far that has convinced me thoroughly.  The way she moves, the way she speaks, the words she uses, even when provoked remained logical.  Their love story is overall a touchy and heart warming read.  It's intense and romantic.  I even enjoyed the moments of their non-sexual relationship - where they get to know each other...learning, giving, accepting, trusting ... oh so full of passion, so full of love.  Aside from Jane, Angeline is my second favorite.  She is definitely the main humor of this book.  She is a chatterbox, full of flaw but lovable nonetheless.  <br />The most impressive part of this book is how Ms. Balogh expresses her &quot;dialogues&quot;.  It's witty and very drawing.  I've never read a historical romance book that uses words that's perfectly consistent with the time plot.  Very ENGLISH, indeed.... Even to the last expression.  Well, done, Ms. Balogh.  I will read more of her works, especially NO MANS MISTRESS, which is the sequel of MTAM, Ferdinand's story, brother of Jocelyn.  I can't wait to read updates of Jane, Jocelyn and Angeline too.	2001-10-23
US	48819053	R1F584LI0OK5G5	0553294083	289682022	Whisper of Roses	Books	5	34	43	N	N	Pride--Love--Sacrifices... A 10 stars!	After reading 3 non-impressive books in a row, I was afraid I'm loosing my taste for historical romance novels.  I've reread my favorites to bring back my mood in vain and so I decided to read a book from one of my favorite authors.  THANK YOU, Ms. Medeiros for bringing me back on track with this poignant story of Morgan and Sabrina.  <br />I would give this book a 10 stars if I could.  It's been awhile since I have enjoyed a story this much that I was afraid for it to end. Well, it has to end sometime, I know...but I am in no rush, so I was slowly reading this one, absorbing every detail and pleasuring every moment of it yet I still found myself saddened when it finally came to an end.  Of all of Teresa Medeiros books that I've read, this is by far her best work.  And ONE of the few best ones I've read as well.  The plot is one tracked yet eloquent.  Characters are impressive even the secondary ones.  But Morgan and Sabrina are the prime ones of all.  There are no lovey-dovey words between them, but the essence of their affection is clear.   I too prefer to read the \\"three important words\\" in all of my books, however obvious it may be but Morgan and Sabrina's love for each other was written beautifully... so deep and strong that I too didn't particularly fuss about this self-preference. The way they handled the trials and errors that came their way was surely proof enough.  The element of surprise found in this story utterly quenched, warmed and enjoyed my heart.  So many unexpected twist and so many heart soaring scenes... Aww, I don't want to mention even one scene here cuz I want readers to feel the goosebumps first hand.  Lots of funny moments as well, ones that will make u laugh out loud.  *Sigh*  Maybe there's a sequel for this book?  Since I am a sucker for Epilogues, which unfortunately is not found in this book, perhaps Ms. Medeiros will find time to create story for Alex or Brian, Sabrina's brothers.  That way, I would read updates of Morgan, Sabrina andtheir offsprings.  <br />Overall, this book is funny, exciting, heart warming, deeply affecting and thoroughly satisfying.  I recommend this book with all of my might.  READ and once again be AWED by this author.	2001-10-18
US	48819053	R1GDUGLSYEW4AT	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	3	11	11	N	N	From Lust to Love? ...in one week?  Hmmm....	READ AMAZON SYNOPSIS and in addition to that:<br />This is my third book of Ms. Johnson and once again, compared to SINFUL, this one pales and is somewhat a disappointment.  I find this book a little on the light-weight in terms of the plot, the romance and the character development.  It is only heavy in one thing and that is sex.  Sam and Alex are likable in most part but not impressive nor do they leave intriguing marks.  Villains are effortless and twisters were too easy to feel any excitement or relief.  There's inconsistencies here and there, in terms of character portrayals, dialogue and dates of scenes.  What bothered me most are the sex scenes, which in most part I find rather unnecessary.  It's too explicit and could be bordered to soft porn materials.  The dialogue and some of the vocabulary used are also too obscene for my liking.  Mind you, I've read and enjoyed light and even heavy sex scenes in my romance reading, provided it's mixed with passion or affection.  I expect a more lovable and heart warming love-making scenes in my romance books.  This is not under erotica genre, afterall.  The main essence of SEDUCTION IN MIND is simply lust and sex.  Since Sam and Alex couldn't keep their hands off each other, they decided they are in love and will get married to save the trouble!  Ugh....not my kind of romantic reading material.  <br />The reason why I didn't rate this book lower than 3 stars despite my above complaint is primarily because I read the book all the way to the end without having to drag myself.  Base on the three books I've read of Susan Johnson, she is never dull.  Her style of risque will challenge readers to read on.  There's also moments of treats such as the tasty banters between the Sam and Alex - that have brought smile to my face.  So, In fact, if you already have this book on hand, I'd say go for it and read it.  Who knows you might enjoy it more than I have.  However, I would not recommend this book as one of those MUST READ or the one you have to go out of your way to get.	2001-10-17
US	48819053	RGNES6VENWCEC	0312970021	79914577	Night Secrets	Books	3	8	8	N	N	3 1/2 stars.  Hearty and adventurous but...	I've read lots of Kat Martin's work and she is in fact one of my favorite authors.  She has drawed out whirlwind of my emotions.  She has insired me as well.   In short, she has  affected me with her words, entertained me with her stories many times in the past. However, I am sad to say Secret Nights isn't one of her best.  I would have given this book a 3.5 stars if I could.  <br />The first part of this book was exciting and pulling, I told myself I'll only read few chapters as I started this book late at night but alas, I ended up reading almost half way through the book towards the early dawn for I refuse to part with it.  The first part is where we were introduce to Marcus and Brandy.  I ache reading about Brandy and her situation.  I admire her determination and her ambitions.  I hoped and wish the best for her!  On the next day, as I read the second half, I begun to feel discontented and restless.  I scanned-read the pages, searching for a climatic moments perhaps even praying for a spur of excitement to set in. Unfortunately, that initial 'pulling' moment never came back to life. I couldn't figure out what went wrong, exactly.  Even till the end, I am sad to say, I never regain that enthusiastic feelings nor did I feel fulfilled.  <br />Let's see... The hero and the heroine, Marcus and Brandy are well developed just like in all of Kat Martin's book that I've read.  Their love was undeniably hearty.  Brandy's character is a typical one for a woman in love since her childhood days.  Of course, it was hard to let go even if she knows she was on the loosing end.  Marcus, selfish as it may seem, was always honest and straight forward about his feelings. His life is at sea and that's that.  Contrary to one reviewer, I didn't mind their seperation, it was the heart wretching part of the book.  Together, they are heart warming.  Seperate, they are heart wretching.  The overall plot was a new one for me too, so I kindda enjoyed that one.  Lots of adventure: Sea quest, Port stops, and the ship scenes was an interesting read. The mystery-suspense twist was alright, though not too exciting, it wasn't the main problem for my restlesness.  I think it's just the way everything was written and represented towards the second half of the book.  Like I said, I really don't know what made the second half boring... I also don't intend to read this book again just to find out why.  If I am not mistaken, I think what got in the way is the over-analyzing, over detailing, over emphasizing of everything.  It's also the repetitive reasoning of actions and explanations of emotions.  I do like detailing but not overly much.  I also do like humor in my romance books which is not found much in here. However, from time to time, I don't mind a melancholy stories so long as the ending would make up for it.  Sadly (once again), the ending just didn't fit in properly for me to form an impression.  I wanted an Epilogue and I hate to admit it but towards the middle of the book, I was hoping for a child to be conceive (you'll know what i mean once u read the book).  Perhaps there is a sequel for this one? <br />Overall, this book is not an awful read.  It's still enjoyable, no doubt.  It's just not up to my &quot;KAT MARTIN&quot; expectation.  Perhaps it's only my own preferences or perhaps it's only my personal expectation of Kat Martin base on her other books that I've read.  I see many reviewers who rated this book a fiver...so go right on ahead and pick up this book.  Read it with open mind.  Who knows you might like it more than I have.	2001-10-05
US	48819053	R3LKS2LZ9DU16S	0553574264	847791733	You Only Love Twice	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Compelling...	READ EDITORIAL REVIEWS...<br />I am not particularly fond of heavy suspense, action and/or mystery in my romance books.  I prefer internal conflicts with lots of heart soaring twists.  I prefer goose bumps alerts and heart squeezer twist.  However, despite that personal preferences, from time to time, I do give historical-romance-mystery or those kinds of book a try because I've read quite a few in the past that have stirred up my emotions and I have actually enjoyed the overall story. I am happy to say that LOVE ONLY TWICE is one of those few novels.<br />This is my first novel of Elizabeth Thornton and I am much interested to read more of her works.  I like the complexity of the plot.  There were many twist... few internal and lots of external ones which were all intriguing.  I specially liked the way Ms. Thornton describe and portrayed her characters.  Each and every one of them, even those extra-passing-characters were properly executed.  Jessica is my favorite overall.  Her character was represented beautifully, I think.  I read books with heroine who lost their memories but this is the only book that have actually made me ache and feel for the heroine.  I understood her confusions.  I admire her strength, her courage and her determination.   Must be awful not knowing who you are, where you come from and what's enstore for your future.  Lucas is likable but not my favorite in this book.  He is straight-forward, sexy, loving, honorable and patient.  Their love story was alright.  Some excitement, some passion and desires, few heart soaring moments and a little laugh here and there... But I couldn't say their's is FULL of love.  I think the action-mystery overshadowed a tiny bit of their relationship development or perhaps it's just me and my preferences?  The minimal inconsistencies in this book such as their language didn't bother me at all.  Yes, I noticed it but it's not overly much as to distract me.  <br />Once again, I didn't think it's fair for me to ratethis book less than 4 stars mainly because of my self preferences... Afterall, Love Only Twice is an exciting and an enjoyable read. It really all goes down to a matter of taste and preferences.  If you like heavy action-mystery-suspense in your romance reading, then this book if definitely the one for u.  For those who are picky and prefer more lovey-dovey scenes... hmmm, I do urge you to try this book anyway, who knows you might like it just as I have or perhaps even more...	2001-10-02
US	48819053	R5TSM7F4RTJYZ	0671743805	76170614	The Princess (Montgomery/Taggert)	Books	4	37	39	N	N	A Great read but Ending Needs Revision...	Once again, here's another Judeveraux book you wouldn't want to miss.  This book is sharp and fast-moving.  Filled with Lovable characters, exciting and not too heavy (which I prefer) action-mystery twists.  Lots of laugh out-loud, I-can't-believe-she-did-that scenes and oh so plenty of heart warming moments. This is also different than my usual England-Scotland settings but a welcome and a refreshing change at that.<br />Aria is definitely one heroine you couldn't forget so easily.  A beautiful spoiled, stiff-by-the-rules Lanconian Princess and a daring, happy-go-lucky American wife all roll into one.  One minute she is frustratingly pulling your hair then next thing you know, she'll make u laugh and love her at the same time.  I truly love her character.  I enjoyed reading about her transformation, her realization to her new found identity and happiness yet I also sigh for her confusions.  My other favorites were Aria's initial reaction to the Americans and how they live, how they talked and even how they eat.  Oh my, that sure was a riot!   Another unforgettable part is the &quot;NEW Aria's&quot; heart warming interaction with her people.  Meanwhile, our hero, J.T-Jarl Tynan (love that name) is an ever so impressive Montgomery.  I've always been interested in Jude Deveraux's Montgomery-Taggert links eversince the Velvet Series, which is one of my favorite series books, and reading more of this lineage here in PRINCESS sure was a wonderful deja vu connection.  Anyway, J.T is perhaps a man of every woman's dream.  He is not only rich, smart, handsome, disciplined and honorable but he is also patient (to the extent), caring, humble and oh so VERY American.  Ohhh, I sure love the way he talks, even the way he moves and the way he does things.  American, Indeed!<br />Now, Aria and JT---Thrown in together however, we find the most opposite yet most lovable couple in the making.  You don't know who you'll root for whenever they have a falling out as both have their ownsets of reason and different upbringing.  Here's a proof of &quot;OPPOSITE attracts&quot;... yet in the end, they benefitted each other and needed one another.  Now, that is what I call LOVE.  Accept and love that person despite the hundreds of differences and flaws. Truly heart warming! <br />My main complain is the very inept ending.  The conclusion isn't to my liking at all.  I mean, Aria and JT's story was so full of love and passion to end so abruptly like that.  They deserve a more fulfilling finale with passionate confessions and profoundness.  I was expecting more... truly!  I was so disappointed, I kept flipping the pages and even counted the pages to make sure the book I bought was complete.  I thought maybe a page or two was missing!  Ugh, No Epilogue at all too!  *Sigh*  An Epilogue would have made up for that quick ending.  Perhaps Ms. Deveraux would take time to revise this book?  Oh well, nevertheless, I rated this book a four stars because it is indeed an entertaining read.  If the ending was satisfying, this book would have been a fiver.  That's only my opinion, of course.  I suggest you read this one and form your own.	2001-10-02
US	48819053	R2T88P4U3TKT66	0671737805	905709682	Gentle Warrior (Tapestry Romance, No. 74)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Garwood's USUAL style... As always, SHE DELIVERS!	I've read all of Julie Garwood's historical romance novels and I think she's awesome.  She is one of my top 3 favs authors and reading Gentle Warrior reminded me of why.  Her characters are always three-dimensional, well portrayed and well represented.  Her plots are often complex, exciting and well executed. Her Dialogues are witty and humorous. The hero/heroine's relationship development are always full of heart warming trial and errors and yet full of love. Her twisters are hearty and even wretching at times.  But the best part of all is her conclusions. They are always climatic!  Her endings are always a grand relief and very satisfying.  In short, Julie Garwood always delivers!  <br />Elizabeth and Geoffrey's story here in Gentle Warrior is no exception to the above attributes.  In addition to that, I agree that this book is definitely tummer fluttery (Iluvstrawberries) and have magical chemistry (Jody Austin).  It is indeed sad to hear some reviewers didn't find this book as I saw it.  Oh well, people are entitled to that.  However, all I ask for those who haven't read it yet is to give this book a chance.  Don't be discourage by the negative reviews.  Who knows, you might agree with most reviewers who have enjoy this one as thoroughly I have.	2001-10-02
US	48819053	R8418BSD7D6B9	0671644475	818214166	The Conquest	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Read THE TAMING before this one...	PREQUEL: THE TAMING<br />Awww now.  Once again this book reminded of why I have Jude Deveraux's name in one of my top 3 favorite author list.  She is definitely gifted with words and know how to implement her very own heart soaring ideas.  The lovable characters, the intriguing plot from the prequel of this book, THE TAMING, continues here in THE CONQUEST with much added exciting twist and some newly introduce charming characters. <br />There's 3 reasons why I didn't rate this book a fiver.  One is because of the speedy conclusion of this wondeful SAGA.  It was rushed and seemed uncomplete for me.  Perhaps there is another book in the making to explain this kind of ending.... but if there's none, then I am sorely disappointed.  I wanted at least an EPILOGUE with confirmation of decisions and etc. or a short extension of all the character's whereabouts and future.  You'll know why and what I mean once u read THE TAMING and THE CONQUEST.<br />Two, I also wished Severn have his own story.  I was not satisfied with his short-add-on story here in THE CONQUEST.  Lady Anne is indeed a great match for Severn and I really would love to read more of them.  I also would have enjoyed reading Iolanthe's appearance in Lady Anne and Severn's life.  Again, you'll need to read THE TAMING and THE CONQUEST to know what I mean.<br />Third,  I also would have love to see people's reaction to Zared's transformation from the BOY squire to a Lady.  What of Ralph and Colbrand?  Wouldn't it be fun to read their reaction?  <br />Despite that three complains of mine, this book still manage to be a 4 stars to me because it did bring out lots of emotional helter-skelter in me... I love the way Tearle reaches out to Zared.  His ways of courtship and his gentleness towards her.  I sighed for Zared cuz I can see through her heart and understand her desires and confusions.  The long awaited answers to the puzzles and mystery is not to be missed... but most of all, this book made me laugh.  It's a grand book links....  Read to know what I mean!	2001-09-26
US	48819053	R15QSJF8KVOR7G	0553581996	214367831	Intimate Enemies	Books	4	5	6	N	N	More action than romance...	Lauren and Arion, as well as the secondary characters are all well defined and well represented.  I liked the way Shana Abe portrayed Lauren best.  She's tough, courages and level headed.  I've read quite a few books with tomboyish even a fighting-woman as heroine yet only a few manages to sound all-together feminine.  Lauren here is not at all brawny, which i like. Yes, she fights like a man yet she's still able to maintain that feminine aura which I find fetching.  Arion on the otherhand is the typical hero: handsome, rich, well trained warrior and well respected by his people.  Their love for each other actually took awhile to flourish yet understandable considering the plot and their situation.  I guess perhaps this is why I rated this book a 4 star.  This book is more of an action scenes than the love scenes I prefer.  The external clash between the clan which is link back to Arion and Lauren seemed to overshadow their romance.  I don't mind adventure and action twist in my books... However, I admit that there are lots of times that I'm not as move with action/adventure twist compared to a lovey-dovey, spine chilling, heart squeezing, goose-bumps alert scenes.  Call me a romantic fool but this is why I read ROMANCE books.  I prefer heart soaring, trembly romances than action anytime.  <br />It wouldn't be fair for me to rate this book lower than 4 stars mainly because of my own preferences as this book is truly well written. Ms. Abe really did a great job on this one.  IF you are the kind of person who prefers more action and adventure to romance then INTIMATE ENEMIES is definitely for u.  <br />This is only my second book of Ms. Shana Abe and I will still pick up more of her works in the future.  I may not have given this book a five stars rating but it's still an enjoyable read.  It really all goes down to a matter of taste and preferences.  I do urge you to try this book anyway, who knows you might like it more than I have...	2001-09-26
US	48819053	R2KZIKPE95PZ8H	067174383X	369934628	The Taming	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Definitely TAMING...	SEQUEL: THE CONQUEST<br />It's been awhile since I've read a Jude Deveraux book and I sure missed her style.  She's in my top 3 favorite author list and reading THE TAMING reminded me of why.  I've read plenty of romance book with humor in it but only a few can really make me laugh out loud.  In this one, you smile, chuckle, giggle and yes, laugh out loud.  I won't even try to relate a scene or two here.  I highly recommend you pick up this book and find out (laugh out) yourself.  This book is not only full of humor, it's heart warming, heart soaring  and highly provocative.<br />READ Amazon for book synopsis:<br />Rogan, oh my... I have a lot to say about this guy!  Filthy-as in defiled with dirt and fleas!, very ungentlemanly, dull, harsh, barbaric, ungrateful, lout, full of hate.... oh i can go on and on with a long list of his deficiency but i must say, I enjoyed his character immensely. Just as I have enjoyed Lianna.  The rich, beautiful and the daring Lianna.  She who is sensible, capable, CLEAN, organized and oh so hopelessly in love, Lianna.  Both unmatched yet benefitted each other in the end.  Yes, yes, Rogan is definitely FLAWED but... well, you must read this book to understand and to see through him.  Despite all this rough exterior, he is actually a very sensitive man.  He is very capable of tenderness, capable of showing affection.  Unconsciously, he craves for love.  All he needed was a gentle TAMING, just as the book is titled.  This isn't like those usual DARK-hero-longing-for-love-and-then-tamed kindda story though.  It's different.  It's more profound.  Intriguing with mixture of humor.  My favorite part of this book is Rogan and Lianna's getting to know one another, their adjustment to each other - full of internal conflicts that makes their love for each other more convincing.  I was also very surprise to read that one part of Zared's twist. Oh my, I think readers shouldn't read THE CONQUEST synopsis before reading this book, that way you too will be surprise.  The Conquest is Zared's book and the sequel for THE TAMING, by the way.  <br />My only compaint here is how the book ended.  I think that was a bit rush, I was not satisfied.  I wanted a deeper emotional confession. I wanted more goose-bumps alert scenes for the conclusion.  Or perhaps I just didn't want this book to end?  Anyway, the reason why I still rated this book a fiver despite that small complaint was because I really did enjoy it.  In fact, I love this book and shall reread it anytime soon.  Also, this book has sequel, THE CONQUEST, so perhaps it was meant to end that way, as hanging to induce reader to read the sequel.  I sure am piqued and will definitely read the second book.  Afterall, ZARED alone had already piqued my interest.  Read THE TAMING, you won't regret it.  I sure didn't.	2001-09-22
US	48819053	R2GJ34OU7KJN5Q	0380725703	745711270	Love Me Forever	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Way better than the prequel, Man of My Dreams.	I enjoyed this book a lot more than the prequel, MAN OF MY DREAMS.  Although this one is a bit on the light side compared to my other book readings, I enjoyed it nevertheless.  The thing is, LOVE ME FOREVER has the usual plot of an impoverished hero seeking for a rich heiress to marry in order to save his clan... Since I've read many books with this familiar format, I didn't have that new excitement feelings while reading this book.  In my opinion, Love Me Forever needs a bit more of wickedness to add sauciness to the overall story, a little bit of hard twist to add excitement and a little bit more of misunderstanding to add complexity to the relationship.  However, Johanna Lindsey made it up by adding a touch of spunk &amp; uniqueness on her well defined and utterly lovable characters.   Lachlan and Kimberly are now in one of few favorite hero/heroine list of all times.  They both have flaws physically which was a welcome change for me.  They're both too tall for others yet perfectly fit for each other.  I was also getting tired of dark, stuffy, brooding and overbearing heroes.  Our Lachlan here is playful, a tease, charming and loving.  He's a happy go lucky kindda guy.  Mind u, he is all MANLY with a touch of arrogance but his boyish character is what drawned me more to him.  There's also no denial for him, he knows what he wants and goes for it.  He realized in the end that he was in love with Kimberly and accepted it so.  He is direct yet perhaps a bit dense...  MEN, what can I say? LOL.  Now, our heroine, Kimberly is just as refreshing as Lachlan.  She was not describe as overly beautiful nor was she attractively sought after like most heroine in other books. In fact, She was considered unnoticeable.   She does have her own beauty though which people notices only after a time.  Kindda like, Her beauty grows in you.   She's quite &amp; shy from time to time which I find fetching.  She can be confident one minute then insecure next.  She's more realistic, just like u and me.  That's what made me like her all the more.  Together, they made up for each other's weaknesses.  He is handsome, she is regular.  He is funny, she is serious.  When one is too trustful, the other is wary.  I say, they are truly for each other!  As for their relationship, well...their love developed slowly yet surely.  I liked that idea very much.  This isn't a love at first sight thing, at least not for Lachlan, for he only have eyes for Megan.  Ugh.  Now, this is an added flutter to the plot. Since I've read MAN ON MY DREAMS, it was also good to see Megan and Devlin again.  To read updates about the rest of the characters in MOMD was definitely a smiler.  However, If u read my review on MOMD, the prequel for this book, you will see that I particularly didn't favor Megan and Devlin there... They're ok but not for me to liked them as I feel for Lachlan and Kimberly here in LMF.   Especially after reading that harsh and low incident with Devlin and Lachlan (read to know what i mean), it was just so easy for me to dislike Devlin... UGH!  Oh well, in the end, Ms. Lindsey did once again made up for that and made Devlin likable again.  But I still like Lachlan best!  <br /> Despite its light-sided plot, Overall, this book is filled with humor and heart warming scenes you wouldn't want to miss.	2001-09-15
US	48819053	R3IT04I2B8KK3O	0440226317	57073862	The Devil's Love	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Quite Impressive for a First Novel...	This is my first of Julia London and was quite impressed by it, more especially after finding out that this is only her first book. I say, it's well done for a first try. THE WICKED PROMISE is the sequel for this book. Thank you again to other reviewers who've mentioned it. I will definitely order it this week.<br />Read Editorial Reviews above for book description: Here is my opinion...<br />I enjoyed the first and last part of this book the most, however, the middle part was a bit slow ---not all together boring but just a bit slow to get to the point. Also, the part where Abby recovered from her accident which she then turned around to hating Michael all of a sudden... hmmm, where did that come from? That scene didn't appeal much to me. I prefer a different rent than that. Or perhaps it just wasn't represented like it should be for me to appreciate it. In addition to that, if she was supposedly soooo angry, I was hoping for her to finally carry out her original plan of going back to America. She's been thinking, making plans to do this for the longest time that the idea was instilled in me. I expected her to do so but it didn't happend. She tells him this but doesn't do it. She should have just left and that's that. That would have been a great rift too -- seperation...then Michael going after her -- that sorta thing. But then again, this is only a very small self preferences. <br />Overall, this book is an entertaining read. The initial plot was engaging. The characters are well defined and well executed. There's lots of funny moments as well as heart quenching ones as well. The Epilogue is my favorite of all. It was a satisfying conclusion to this heart warming story.	2001-09-12
US	48819053	R2RCUXWKRNDZWA	044022389X	342719929	The Sound of Snow	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Touchy, Lovely and Encouraging...	READ AMAZON SYNOPSIS, In addition to that:<br />Jo and Guy's romance didn't actually begin till the middle of the book, I thought I would get bored and skipped pages till I get to this part but I was mistaken, I enjoyed the slow-flowing development of their relationship. Slow but not lacking. Slow yet definitely detailed. &quot;TIME&quot; made them more convincing to me. Contrary to what others think, that style, considering the plot, made me appreciate their love for each other all the more. Guy and Jo... now there is really love between them! The circumstances they were both in made them stronger together. Their situation led them both to trust and rely on each other. They compensated each others weaknesses. It became a special forming BOND, so strong in fact, that &quot;that&quot; heart rending twist towards the end truly pulled me in. Very dramatic, yes. But not OVERLY in my opinion. Aside from the main characters, I enjoyed ALL secondary characters. From Miles all the way to the servants of Wakefield. They are indeed an added spices to the story. All were wonderfully implemented. Heck, I even felt sorry for Lydia instead of hating her. She is the villain yet a victim of jealousy as well. Sad! This is where I appreciated Ms. Kingsley's talent for words. I think she doesn't want her readers to feel HATE in the end of the book. She wanted us to understand &amp; forgive the villain. To feel sad for her instead...despite the misgivings. I have many favorite scenes in this book, to mention a few... The servants interactions and love for Jo was a smiler. Miles transformation was one of my favorite, very heart warming. Guy's reaching out to his son is also a teary moment. But most of all, I love the religious part of this book, the power of FAITH &amp; Trust in God. Accepting His will even if not understanding it. It encourages readers to keep in touch with their spirituality. Oh, I must mention that this religious belief is not overly mentioned. It's sporadically inserted and in my opinion, placed at the right moment. I am not very fond of paranormal incidents. However, in this book, the supernatural appearances seems touchy and significant. Perhaps it is just the way it's written. Ms. Kingsley words touched my heart, my soul. I do believe in &quot;ANGELS&quot;. I think they do watch over us, guide us &amp; enlightened us if needed. They come in many forms &amp; in many ways. One just need to look closely and believe! One must listen beyond the silence and look beyond the mountains... Also, In my opinion, the ending was beautifully writtened. I was touched (once again) reading that one scene in the chapel with brother Michael (read to know what I mean). I agree that people need inner peace to feel complete happiness. <br />Overall, this book begins with betrayal, misconceptions, deceits &amp; hatred. But the finale is full of LOVE, understanding and forgiveness --- not only for one special person but for everyone around us. May they be a King or Servant. May they be your Spouse or a Stranger. This book will also make you appreciate Love &amp; Life as God's gift to us.	2001-09-09
US	48819053	R364RU49HPTX2I	0440201446	197674922	The Hawk and the Dove	Books	2	13	18	N	N	What a disappointment...	READ THE ABOVE AMAZON EDITORIAL REVIEWS FOR BOOK SYNOPSIS:<br />My OPINION: I find this book terribly inadequate.  I have read and enjoyed quite a few of Virginia Henleys work but I am sad to admit, this most certainly is not one of them.  <br />The back book description drawned me to buy this one.  Since I am fond of Ms. Henley, I didn't bother checking the Amazon book reviews either.  Now, however, I wish I had... The beginning of this story was truly interesting and pulling. But as soon as our heroine, Sara, went to London to enforce her &quot;revenge&quot; plot to her unseen husband, Shane... that's when everything sorta went downhill.  It should have been more exciting as I expected it to be but unfortunately, it didn't feel that way to me.  There was something missing that I can't quite put together.  Then, in the end, I was simply not satisfied.  The &quot;hearty feeling&quot; wasn't there.  I also had many questions that's left unanswered, like for instance, what happened to Queen Elizabeth's fury towards Sara and Shane? Seems that part was just forgotten.  Perhaps they were both forgiven.  Just like that, huh?  What about the attack to Spain?  How did that go?  What happend to the Baron?  Did he end up with Giorgianna?  Perhaps I just missed these parts when I was skipping pages. Well, that fact alone, that I was skipping pages intentionally pretty much says it all about this book.  I am sorry, I do love Ms. Henley's style of writing but her talent just wasn't &quot;IN&quot; this particular book.  Mayhap this is one of her earlier works.  Hawk and the Dove is a foil compared to &quot;A YEAR AND A DAY&quot; &amp; &quot;THE PLANTAGENET TRILOGY&quot;.  I sure love all 4 books and recommend it!  <br />As for the characters, well...  I did like Sara in the beginning but I'll admit, I was turned off the moment she decided to &quot;barrow&quot; (without permission, mind you) the Queens sapphire necklace.  That alone shows how ambitious and materialistic she is.  Idon't mind ambitious heroine but I prefer it in a practical and in an average flight not over-flown like this one.  To actually go to the extent of &quot;barrowing-without-permission&quot;, to risk such danger just to show off in a party?  Hmm, not my kind of heroine.  However, I decided not to judge her and tried to shove that thought aside. I tried to understand Sara by remembering her childhood, give excuses for her so that I can just continue reading this book!  Eventually, I sorta accepted her character. That is how she is portrayed and so be it.  Our hero, Shane, The Sea God, on the other hand is....  Hmmm, I can't even find a proper description to fit him!  (shows how I am interested by his character, huh?).  Well, let's see...  Handsome, Intelligent, Rakish, Rich (the usual character for a hero, I guess).  He also gives Sabre (Sara) everything!  I mean, EVERYTHING!  Tolerates her ways all the time.  Except for when jealousy kicks in, of course.  If not for the desire and sexual tension, I'd say Shane's like a father to Sara.  He treated her more like a child.  A spoiled one, at that.  Again, not my kind of hero.  Another thing that also bothered me about Shane is he never asked questions about Sabre/Sara past or family.  Seems like he wasn't interested about her past life, childhood, where she came from for that matter.  Seemed like he is in love with her the moment he saw her beautiful FACE and her luscious BODY. He wants her and that's that! I don't think he really knows anything else about Sara.  So where and how did love weaved in?  No relationship development at all.  Again, not my kind of love-romance.  <br />The reason why I haven't rated this book a 1 star after all my negative comments above is simply because of the unique plot.  It really does have potential and like I said, I did enjoy the first part. It also made me want to look into Queen Elizabeth I. Despite my skipping pages towards the end, I did finished this book and for me, that counts...that matters.  However, If you are a first time Virginia Henley reader, please, I beg you not to start with this one!  Of course, that is only my opinion.	2001-09-05
US	48819053	RKC8YPLJ2ARJL	0380756269	222985860	Man of My Dreams	Books	3	14	17	N	N	A bit on the Inadequate side...	I insisted on reading this because the book description caught my interest. The overall amazon high rating also persuaded me into buying it. The initial plot is of a Duke (Ambrose Devlin St. James) secretly posing as a Horsebreeder (Devlin Jefferys) and a young gentry woman (Megan Penworthy) who have set her heart on marrying a Duke just to spite a snobbish neighborwoman -no matter that she hasn't seen or met this every popular Duke yet. She eventually falls in love with the horsebreeder while despising the Duke...all this without realizing the connection. Meanwhile, Ambrose the Duke, remained Devlin the Horse breeder, because he wanted Megan to accept him for who he is and not for what he is... It's was truly a great plot. Unique as well. Which is why I am heartbroken to report my disappointment in this matter. The first part of this book was fascinating. Fast and engrossing. Lots of humor and tasty banters. But then all of a sudden, I began to read through the story without any emotions whatsoever. It's like going through the program without even realizing it is happening and then, it is over. Towards the middle till the end, the story also became too repetitive for my liking. It discussed the plot, explaining their thoughts, their circumstances over and over again. I think I got the picture the first time already! The banters and humor also became somewhat old towards the end. I tell you, the initial plot surely have very good potentials, it just needs more developing. It also needs an extra twist to spice it up. The primary characters are just as lacking. Devlin and Megan need lots of elaborating. They need more attitude for me to thoroughly enjoy them. I did like them a bit esp. in the beginning but not as favored as I should. Mind you, I wasn't annoyed nor do I hate them. Their character is &quot;that&quot; lacking, I couldn't even form a dislike towards them. Their relationship and togetherness also needs lots of expanding. There were many situations in the book wherein I expected more of the outcome and the consequences. I also find myself skipping page(s) of when Megan starts talking to her conscience. I am sorry but I didn't appreciate that style of J.L's writing at all. Once or twice would have been tolerable but not over and over again! <br />I really hate giving ratings lower than 3 stars especially if the Author once gave me great entertainment. I've enjoyed lots of Johanna Lindseys work but sad to say, this isn't one of them. However, I believe she is a wonderful author with supreme talents, therefore, I shall continue to read more of Ms. Lindseys books. In fact, I am now in the process of reading LOVE ME FOREVER, which is the sequel of this story. <br />A lot of Amazon reviewers did enjoy this book to even rate it a 4-5 stars rating so don't take my word for it. Read this one anyway and see for yourself. Who knows, you might enjoy it more than I have.	2001-09-03
US	48819053	REUCE773E03IA	0380814714	78646061	So Speaks the Heart (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	36	47	N	N	Mind and Heart BAFFLING...	I love controversial plots, it makes my reading more intriguing.  The more unconventional it appears, the more I am drawn to it.  It is indeed a challenge reading this one!<br />Read Amazon Editorial Review for book synopsis and in addition to that:<br />This is one of those books that won't agree with everyone because of the hero's callousness and his fierce treatment towards the heroine.  Ugh.  I actually got teary-eyed many times while reading this book.  I am at lost from time to time that I had to paused and breathe to digest the situations.   I mean, sure... Our hero did reformed and there was proof of that changes in the end but what Brigitte went through in his hands was not an easy read for me.   I would like to emphasize that I also didn't think Rowland's treatment to Brigitte can be described as brutal because it wasn't that extreme but I still ache for her.  Rowland's more of an overbearing, insensitive and a VERY demanding lout.   I understand Brigitte's frustration to prove her identity.  In truth though, she was actually in better hand with Rowland compared to her previous faith in her stepaunt hands. However, I still can't help but feel she deserves better than a lowly servant.  I can also see her confusions when it comes to Rowland.  How can you understand and love someone who treats you so lowly?  How can you love someone who doesn't believe nor trust you?  I feel so sorry and sad for her, my heart was in spastic mode all through out this book.  Meanwhile, Rowlands grew up without love, without emotions but hate.  He fend and fight for himself all throughout his life.  I believe his frigid upbringing contributed to this compressed emotions towards Brigitte.  I know a lot of reader would not or could not comprehend this idea.  Not a lot would accept excuses such as difficult childhood for harsh treatments towards anyone. However, as painful and unbelievable as it may seem, this is also a reality.  How can a person who have never received kindness and love give such affection to another?  We need to receive affection to know how to give it.  I too feel sorry and sad for our hero, Rowland.  Perhaps that is why I love this book.  It encouraged me to FEEL and THINK.  Yes, I don't like what Rowland does to Brigitte but I cannot judge him harshly either.  I couldn't hate him because I can understand his emotional turmoil.  All of his life, he never felt important and loved but now, here is Brigitte caring for him, rising new emotions he has never known nor felt before...  The part that was heart rendering was the fact that Rowland, a tough warrior as he may be, was actually afraid and insecure.  He was so scared of losing Brigette that he decided that denial was the only antidote.  He left matters as they were, refusing to look further, refusing to believe Brigette's words to prevent unwanted changes in his life.  Selfish perhaps but a sad state, all the same.  The way Johanna Lindsey wrote Rowlands character, his past and his emotional confusions simply overwhelmed me.  Brigitte's character was also just as polished.  I admired her courage, I enjoyed her spunkness.  She's been through a lot yet her bearing remained intact.  Her faith, her pride &amp; her heart remained whole!  Nothing can break her spirit and I find that inspiring.  There was so much love, patience, understanding &amp; forgiveness between Rowland and Brigitte that I just couldn't help warming towards them.  Aside from the romance and relationship development of Rowland and Brigitte, there is one too many twist in this book that was utterly UNEXPECTED. I was caught unprepared and I enjoyed my reactions towards it.  As always the ending was a grand relief though I wish there was an EPILOGUE added to it.  Perhaps there is a sequel for this book?  A story of Quintin?  <br />Overall, this book is mind and heart baffling.  I suggest you read this book with open mind and understanding heart.  Don't judge our hero too quickly and harshly.  In fact, try tosee through him.  Once you do, you will appreciate their story all the more...	2001-09-03
US	48819053	RXUNKF6GIB7SD	0380808013	815652426	Taste Of Sin, A (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sinfully BEAUTIFUL...	WOW!  This is my first of Connie Mason and if this is her usual style of writing, it will certainly not be my last.  The initial plot of this book totally piqued my deepest interest!  I saw this book in one of my Amazon friends list sometime months ago.  I promised to buy this book but then to my dismay, I forgot the title and the author. All I remembered was the plot. So now what?  I've back tracked my Amazon friends list to searching and reading all book back cover in the bookstore for weeks... I just couldn't find it and was getting frustrated... until I finally got lucky yesterday to have stumble across it.  How perfect.  I was so excited to have finally get it that I prayed this book is worth all the trouble...   Oh my!  Was it worth it!  I read this book in one night, slept for only couple of hours for work and again, it's all worth it.  <br />I won't dally with the book's description anymore as the Amazon editorial review and some reviewers (read Ambrangel) have already did a good job doing that.  So, I will simply throw in my overall opinion of this book.  It's utterly beautiful!  Full of Love, Desire, Tenderness mixed with confusing lies, misconceptions, schemes, hidden secrets....  All these and more.  It's a basket full of emotional topsy-turvy situations.  One thing always leads to another.  Giggle, sigh, squirm and laugh.  Sinjun and Christy... awww!  My heart skips a beat just thinking about them.  I do agree with one reviewer here who stated that Sinjun was useless and seemed to waste his life without Christy.  Sad as it may be but I believe that if someone finds true love, their life becomes more meaningful and productive.  Isn't it true what they said that behind every mans success is a woman (and vise versa)?  Christy is Sinjun's inspiration/encouragement to turn his life around and I liked that idea.  Aside from Christy's attribute of kindness and beauty, she is also a bit impulsive, her decision a bit naive, if not even stupid... but this is whatmade the book compelling, in my opinion.  I prefer FLAWS in all the heroes/heroines of my books.  This is where I can admire an Author deeply.  When a Writer create and implement a flaw or twist in their stories, they expect readers to become frustrated. But it is how they eventually overturn that feeling with an overwhelming reaction of relief and contentment that matters the most.  The powerful choice of words Ms. Mason used here in TASTE OF SIN amazed me.  The way she weaves her words and plot moved me. This is the kind of book I like to read best.  I like to FEEL when I read. I like lots of spastic moments and no dull ones at all.  Loved this book!  I even bought one for my sister.  She gatta read this one and so should you!<br />I am now in the process of reading A BREATH OF SCANDAL, Julian's story, the mysterious brother of Sinjun. Can't wait to read Emma's story, Sinjun's sister.  I like her spunk!	2001-08-28
US	48819053	R26Y25DH7XCCIB	0312975643	117124201	Perfect Sin	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging	The back description of this book didn't actually draw me in. An American Adventurer for a heroine didn't sound appealing to me but I was captivated by Randall, Duke of Beldon in WICKED PROMISE. I was very glad to know he has a story of his own, so this is the real reason why I got this book. Good decision, I say... Not only is the plot engaging, Rand and Caitlin's love story was a heart warming one. I was surprise to specially enjoy Caitlin's character because of my clouded first impression of her as an American Adventurer. I actually like her dependency, her intelligence, her devotion to her father and her work. I also love the way she reacts to Randall. She is in innocently in love with him yet she never losses her pride. Randall's character was consistent in WICKED PROMISE. He's handsome, nonchalant and a rake. He's determined, a man of his word, loyal and now, confusingly in love with Caitlin. For me, their love story was full of passion and tenderness despite some heart tearing moments. I didn't like the infidelity part either but I guess this is what made the book more drawing. It hurts to read about it but the mollification that follows was also overwhelming. The Island setting and the search for Cleopatra's necklace was a new and interesting plot for me. I wondered about it even after the story ended. It piqued my curiosity to do some searching about Cleopatra and her Jewels. So, if a book can toy with me this way even after it ends, I say it's truly a worthy read. The reason why I didn't rate this book a five stars is cuz of the inadequate ending. I find it a bit lacking. I was hoping to read Caitlin and Randall with their offspring(s). There was no Epilogue or mentioned of it. Considering that unhappy past, I thought it was significant for Ms. Martin to write about their offspring(s) to make up for that one sad moment. This would have heighten readers spirit, my spirit. Well, this is only my self-preferences.  Overall, this book is engaging and a worthy read especially if you have read the prequel, WICKED PROMISE. It was lovely to see Nick &amp; Elizabeth, Maggie &amp; Alex again...	2001-08-28
US	48819053	RFBWU34CL4FC3	0312975643	117124201	Perfect Sin	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging	The back description of this book didn't actually draw me in.  An American Adventurer for a heroine didn't sound appealing to me but I was captivated by Randall, Duke of Beldon in WICKED PROMISE.   I was very glad to know he has a story of his own, so this is the real reason why I got this book.   Good decision, I say... Not only is the plot engaging, Rand and Caitlin's love story was a heart warming one.   I was surprise to specially enjoy Caitlin's character because of my clouded first impression of her as an American Adventurer. I actually like her dependency, her intelligence, her devotion to her father and her work.  I also love the way she reacts to Randall.  She is in innocently in love with him yet she never losses her pride.  Randall's character was consistent in WICKED PROMISE.  He's handsome, nonchalant and a rake.  He's determined, a man of his word, loyal and now, confusingly in love with Caitlin.  For me, their love story was full of passion and tenderness despite some heart tearing moments.  I didn't like the infidelity part either but I guess this is what made the book more drawing.  It hurts to read about it but the mollification that follows was also overwhelming.  <br />The Island setting and the search for Cleopatra's necklace was a new and interesting plot for me.   I wondered about it even after the story ended. It piqued my curiosity to do some searching about Cleopatra and her Jewels. So, if a book can toy with me this way even after it ends, I say it's truly a worthy read.<br />The reason why I didn't rate this book a five stars is cuz of the inadequate ending.  I find it a bit lacking.  I was hoping to read Caitlin and Randall with their offspring(s).  There was no Epilogue or mentioned of it.  Considering that unhappy past, I thought it was significant for Ms. Martin to write about their offspring(s) to make up for that one sad moment.  This would have heighten readers spirit, my spirit.  Well, this is only my self-preferences.  <br />Overall, this book is engaging and a worthy read especially if you have read the prequel, WICKED PROMISE.  It was lovely to see Nick &amp; Elizabeth, Maggie &amp; Alex again...	2001-08-28
US	48819053	R1KJM3U2PCAZ3K	0312966407	601817757	Wicked Promise	Books	4	6	6	N	N	More like 3 1/2 stars...	Elizabeth and Nicky isn't exactly one of my favorite couples in all of Kat Martin's books. They do have heart warming moments but not enough to form an impression. In fact, I was more enthralled with Maggie's character. I wished there was more of her and Alex. Their story was short yet very lovable and hearty. For a primary characters, I think Elizabeth &amp; Nicky needed a bit more expanding for me to fully appreciate them. I mean, individually they are well described but together, they lack development. There was not enough spark for me to feel that spastic reaction. They need more of internal conflicts for me to see and feel the true color of their relationship. In my opinion, the murder/mystery twist seemed to have overshadowed Nick and Elizabeth's love-romance story. I am not extremely fond of murder plots, perhaps this is the reason why I didn't enjoy this book to the fullest. I admit, there are times where I wouldn't mind and/or in fact, even enjoy such twist but on this circumstances, the murder plot here in WICKED PROMISE was just too common for my liking... So, you can say it's all a matter of taste and preferences. Read it anyway, you might like it more than I have. Also, I find this book somewhat slow... it takes awhile to get to the point. A bit verbose. But as soon as you past that, the story progresses and becomes quite intriguing. Aside from Maggie's character, I was also captivated by Randall character. He is the Duke of Beldon, Nicky's friend. I wasn't sure if Kat Martin wrote a book just for him... but I hoped! Boy, was I happy to learn upon my search here in Amazon that PERFECT SIN is Randall's book. OVERALL, Wicked Promise is a good read. I have no regrets reading this book at all. If you like murder/mystery plots in your historical romance novels, then this one is definitely for you.	2001-08-25
US	48819053	R3743R91YZNKTK	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Charming Read...	R.R.M.L. is overall a charming and an entertaining read.  I specially enjoyed reading about the meanings/definitions and origins of different kinds of flower.  I never thought about these things and now it made me want to learn more about it.  Interesting, indeed.  I admit, the initial plot was somewhat thin for my liking.  Also, I find the mystery twist a bit too predictable.  However, the detailed and lovable characters made up for this fluff.  In my opinion, both Stephen and Hayley are interesting couple.  They have their flaws, which I prefer to have in all my hero/heroine.  Their flaws makes them more realistic in my eye.  Stephen is cold, arrogant, impulsive and very detach.  He grew up with rules and propriety.  His family was too stiff that touching was even considered improper.  Showing of emotions or giving compliments wasn't encourage, instead it's considered inappropriate... And then he met Hayley and her family.  They made him feel different.  He felt something new/strange emotions he had never felt before.  This confuses him that is why he makes lots of annoying decisions.  Meanwhile, Hayley grew up in a loving home.  Her parents died and left her to carry on the responsibility for her family.  So that puts a lot of burden in her life... since then, she merely went on and forgot her own happiness.  Yes, she is a bit too good hearted, too forgiving perhaps.  Normally, I would hate a heroine like this but in Hayley's case, I understand her character.  I understand why she forgives and accepts Stephen too quickly.  I think this is mostly because she is very lonely and very much in love.  She took care of everyone and have forgotten her needs until Stephen fired that &quot;Longings&quot;... Finally, here is a man who makes her feel pretty, makes her feel special.  Despite the misunderstandings and Stephens insensitivities towards her, she can't deny the way she feels for him.  I think it takes a lot of courage for someone to be so open and honest about their feelings despite the consequences.  Her honesty made me admire her more.  No pretentious for Hayley.  I love you and that is that.  Aside from the primary characters, I love each and every one of the secondary characters in this book.  Their conversations, their antics and the humors (although, there were some humor that got kindda old towards the end) will warm your heart and will make u smile.  I love the sweet and innocent Callie the most.  Her tea parties and her heart warming words.  Indeed, A child's love can touch and soften even the most hardened heart.  The ending of this book was charming but there were parts I find a bit too unimaginable---the abrupt improved changes of Stephen's parents and Gregory's all of a sudden change from being a drunk to a well, responsible man... hmmm... I would think this kind of change takes more than just couple of months!  Nevertheless, this book is worthy of your time.  Lots of laugh, smile and sigh.  <br />Jacquie D' Alessandro was suggested to me by two of my Amazon friends.  Her book ratings were mostly high so I went out and bought two of her works.  I wasn't disappointed at all.  I've read and enjoyed the WHIRLWIND WEDDING just as much as this one, RED ROSES MEAN LOVE.  I do believe Ms. D'Alessandro have lots of potentials.  She is indeed talented and I will buy more of her works in the future.	2001-08-20
US	48819053	R26UFX9WPCLI9R	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Entertaining...	This is my first book of Jacquie D' Alessandro and certainly not the last.  In fact, I am now in the process of reading RED ROSES MEAN LOVE.  Elizabeth and Austin are lovely couple. I did enjoy their character as well as their romantic story.  The mystery/action twist of this book is intriguing.  The secondary character's are also an added spice. Overall, Whirlwind Wedding is fast paced, filled with humor, romance and exciting turns. <br />The reason why I didn't rate this book a five stars is cu'z of a small personal preferences.  Every now and then, I do enjoy seers, visions, magics and etc on my books especially if the time setting is in the medieval ages.  However, I am not much of paranormal regencies (18th century).  I didn't particularly favor the heroine's gift of vision.  I guess you can say in this instance, I prefer the element of surprise.  I didn't appreciate Elizabeth knowing what Austin's thinking.  There are cute moments but I still prefer surprises.  I wanted more excitement and tension between them.  Also, the ending was a wee bit lacking for me.  Perhaps it's cuz I was looking forward to read William's homecoming. The added surprise of Josette and Claudine to the family would have been a grand and heart warming ending.  Also, I wanted so much to read a bit more of Miles and Caroline.  Oh well, like I said, these are just small niggle of my own preferences.  Overall, this book is entertaining and a charming read.  I would love to read Robert's story, if Jacquie D' Alessandro would create a novel just for him.	2001-08-17
US	48819053	R3RO44GKFT4YWZ	0440222095	442160446	The Marriage Prize (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Grand Finale!	I suggest reading this trilogy in order.  PLANTAGENET TRILOGY:  THE FALCON AND THE FLOWER........  THE DRAGON AND THE JEWEL....... THE MARRIAGE PRIZE.<br />Once again, this is the kind of book that is not for everyone.  Some might enjoy it to the fullest yet some find it too tedious because of its historical facts. Some might even hate it for the gruesome faith that awaits Simon De Montfort, who I believe everyone loved in THE DRAGON and the JEWEL.  I on the otherhand, loved this book.  I did find it somewhat a slow read.  When I said SLOW read, I didn't mean it to as a derogatory comment.  It's somewhat slow for me because I wanted to absorb the historical portion of this book.  I wanted to remember the details that way when I do some researched about it, I could compare or differentiate it.  I find Pince Edwards character quite intriguing.  His friendship to Roger (and Roger's loyalty to him) and the Prince's relationship with Simon De Montfort was all an interesting read.  Even the secondary characters, fiction or non-fiction, all piqued my curiosity.  Roger and Rosamund's love story was kind of a secondary interest to me.  Their romance was a bit simple, too conventional perhaps and is not particularly my top favorite yet I did enjoy them.  They have their own spot which I admit added spice to the whole novel.  <br />I was devastated to have finally read the horrific death of Simon De Monfort (Didn't want this to be a spoiler and I wouldn't have mention this part but then others already have...).  Even if I already knew by history that this would happend, it seems I was still unprepared. Perhaps it's the way V. Henley wrote it or perhaps it's just cuz I've love Simon and Eleanor in THE DRAGON and THE JEWEL that I sympathize for both of them.  They are so much in love that it aches to read such heart wretching moment.  I cried and felt so sad for Eleanor and her children.  I admired her in TDATJ and seeing her strength here made me admire her even more.  Simon'sdeath affected me so much that I thought about it for days afterwards, wishing it would have ended differently.  I am a sucker for HAPPY ENDINGS and reading his death didn't particularly suit me well.  Had I not read about him in TDATJ, I am sure I wouldn't be this devastated.  However, I eventually come to terms with it and have decided that if Virginia Henley rewrote Simon's story differently, this book won't probably affect me this way nor would it leave an impressive mark like it did now.   It is amazing how V. Henley challenged her readers this way... to have readers love a character who is to die in the next book.  Truly amazing!<br />After reading Virginia Henley's P. Trilogy, I did some more research about the Plantagenets and learned a lot through the process.  I also researched about Simon De Montfort, the Marshals, the De Clares and even the name Roger Leyburn, who is our hero in this book.  I made an interesting findings!   If a historical romance novel can piqued my interest this strongly for me to do some researching to enhance my knowledge on the matter then I say it's truly a worthy book.  I am impress by the way Ms. Henley corporated this trilogy.  Full of facts, mixed with her own unique ideas of romantic interlude.  Overall, this book is a grand read.  Cry, smile and learn!	2001-08-17
US	48819053	R3CTAZU9NA2VRE	0440222095	442160446	The Marriage Prize (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Grand Finale!	I suggest reading this trilogy in order.  PLANTAGENET TRILOGY:  THE FALCON AND THE FLOWER........  THE DRAGON AND THE JEWEL....... THE MARRIAGE PRIZE.<br />Once again, this is the kind of book that is not for everyone.  Some might enjoy it to the fullest yet some find it too tedious because of its historical facts. Some might even hate it for the gruesome faith that awaits Simon De Montfort, who I believe everyone loved in THE DRAGON and the JEWEL.  I on the otherhand, loved this book.  I did find it somewhat a slow read.  When I said SLOW read, I didn't mean it to as a derogatory comment.  It's somewhat slow for me because I wanted to absorb the historical portion of this book.  I wanted to remember the details that way when I do some researched about it, I could compare or differentiate it.  I find Pince Edwards character quite intriguing.  His friendship to Roger (and Roger's loyalty to him) and the Prince's relationship with Simon De Montfort was all an interesting read.  Even the secondary characters, fiction or non-fiction, all piqued my curiosity.  Roger and Rosamund's love story was kind of a secondary interest to me.  Their romance was a bit simple, too conventional perhaps and is not particularly my top favorite yet I did enjoy them.  They have their own spot which I admit added spice to the whole novel.  <br />I was devastated to have finally read the horrific death of Simon De Monfort (Didn't want this to be a spoiler and I wouldn't have mention this part but then others already have...).  Even if I already knew by history that this would happend, it seems I was still unprepared. Perhaps it's the way V. Henley wrote it or perhaps it's just cuz I've love Simon and Eleanor in THE DRAGON and THE JEWEL that I sympathize for both of them.  They are so much in love that it aches to read such heart wretching moment.  I cried and felt so sad for Eleanor and her children.  I admired her in TDATJ and seeing her strength here made me admire her even more.  Simon'sdeath affected me so much that I thought about it for days afterwards, wishing it would have ended differently.  I am a sucker for HAPPY ENDINGS and reading his death didn't particularly suit me well.  Had I not read about him in TDATJ, I am sure I wouldn't be this devastated.  However, I eventually come to terms with it and have decided that if Virginia Henley rewrote Simon's story differently, this book won't probably affect me this way nor would it leave an impressive mark like it did now.   It is amazing how V. Henley challenged her readers this way... to have readers love a character who is to die in the next book.  Truly amazing!<br />After reading Virginia Henley's P. Trilogy, I did some more research about the Plantagenets and learned a lot through the process.  I also researched about Simon De Montfort, the Marshals, the De Clares and even the name Roger Leyburn, who is our hero in this book.  I made an interesting findings!   If a historical romance novel can piqued my interest this strongly for me to do some researching to enhance my knowledge on the matter then I say it's truly a worthy book.  I am impress by the way Ms. Henley corporated this trilogy.  Full of facts, mixed with her own unique ideas of romantic interlude.  Overall, this book is a grand read.  Cry, smile and learn!	2001-08-17
US	48819053	R8GUHZ8DJ8N3B	0440206243	476962552	The Dragon and the Jewel (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Historical Romance, indeed.	PLANTAGENET TRILOGY  in order:  THE FALCON AND THE FLOWER........  THE DRAGON AND THE JEWEL....... THE MARRIAGE PRIZE<br />IN addition to the synopsis above:<br />The one thing that bothered me most about this book is.... it took awhile for Simon and Eleanor's story to initiate.  I found the first part quite tedious and a bit depressing.  Tedious: 'cuz I think the story of Eleanor's first marriage could have been shortened.  The more I read about Will Marshall and his attributes, the more I prefer him to be the hero of this book.  Depressing: 'cuz I've formed a distinct liking towards Will Marshall in the first book, The Falcon and The Flower.  He was a very honorable man.  Capable of lifetime of love, loyalty and faithfulness.  I was impressed by his character that I wanted more for him other than just a short-live life & happiness.  I also didn't particularly favor his marriage to Princess Eleanor mainly because of their age difference.  I really wished he married someone of his age and had found lasting love and happiness...   However, as I was thinking, perhaps Will Marshall isn't a fictional character afterall.  Sad as it may be, Will Marshall and his faith might even be somewhat true in HISTORY, that Virginia Henley have no choice but to write it as it is. I will definitely do some research about this matter as it has deeply piqued my curiosity.   Anyway, as the story progressed, I begun to gain my good mood back.  I enjoyed Simon and Eleanor's character and love story.  I love the way Simon courted Eleanor.  His playfullness, gentleness and his attitude towards her.  He is so large, a mighty war-lord while she's so tiny.   And yet Simon still manages to be very patient and loving towards Eleanor.  Awww~!  As for the Princess, well...  I wasn't disturbed by her proud bearing, her spoiledness, her vanity or her extravagant ways.  She is a PLANTAGENET PRINCESS, afterall.  What do you expect?  In my opinion, It would have been unbelievable and unrealistic for herto be otherwise.  I admired her regal bearing as well as her love for Simon.  Their love for each other was so strong, so convincing and oh so deep, that it scares me to read about them in the next book, THE MARRIAGE PRIZE, since I already know by historical facts what faith awaits Simon De Monfort.  Ugh!  <br />I have always been intrigued by the PLANTAGENETS.  I've read historical facts about them in the past yet reading their history in this book mixed with romance made it more interesting for me.  The historical facts captured me while the romance heightened it.   I admired the way Virginia Henley corporated this trilogy.  She developed her characters to the fullest, pulling you into their thoughts, making you understand them while instilling FACTS at the same time.  She also leave small degrees to allow readers to form their own judgement about her characters, esp. those that are non-fictional.   I don't know how she does that but I find it rather fascinating.   I've read only 4 of Virginia Henley works but so far, I've notice her books are at least 70% filled of educational historical facts, which is blended uniquely with her own ideas of romantic interlude.  I say that's quite impressive, don't u think?   Read Virginia Henley's PLANTAGENET TRILOGY.  It is educational yet entertaining and heart soaring.   This is what HISTORICAL ROMANCE is all about.	2001-08-15
US	48819053	R36RHR8BT7SR6R	0440204291	229530925	The Falcon and the Flower (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	More like 4 1/2...	This is my second book of Virgnia Henley and once again, I was entertained and is impressed by her style.  I am almost finished with The Dragon and The Jewel, the 2nd book of this PLANTAGENET TRILOGY. The last book is THE MARRIAGE PRIZE.  Basing it on her books that I've read, Virginia Henley really knows her plot.  She corporates history with romance in the most factual way.  She is straight forward and doesn't use a lot flowery words even in the hero/heroine's story.  I do enjoy flowery words from time to time but on this occasion, Her style was a welcome change to me that I didn't mind it at all.  <br />The Falcon and the Flower affected me in the most bizarre ways. No doubt, I enjoyed this book.  I find the PLANTAGENET interesting so the added history in this book thoroughly pulled me in.  I love Falcon and Jasmine love story as well... but then I also felt guilty enjoying their story to the fullest because I don't like men hitting their wives.  I feel if they did it once, they will do it again... and indeed, even towards the end of this book, Falcon did hit her again.  ugh.  Perhaps that is why I rated this book a four stars (4 1/2 if I could).  That could have been omitted to proved he changed...  I wanted to not like this book mainly for that reason but shamefully, i find my heart in spastic mode cuz I can see how much Falcon was drawn to Jasmine.  He was VERY MUCH in love with her.  It was a love at first sight.  Jasmine didn't have a Title nor lands to offer, she wasn't trained to be a chatelain or a wife nor can she supposedly bore him sons or children... meanwhile, Falcon De Burgh could choose any bride he wants.  There were many beautiful heiress who were fully trained to be chatelain and a submissive wife.  There were many who could bring advantage to him but he chose Jasmine.  Without Falcon realizing it, that alone says it all.  Most of the books I've read have marriages cuz of convenience or with an advantage.  However,  Falcon's offer of marriage toJasmine have no advantage to either of them.  Love wasn't confessed in the beginning either so naturally it was confusing for both party, most especially for Jasmine who have ambition of her own to achieve.  She feels that Falcon is ruining her life by marriage.  I know a lot of reviewers here don't like Jasmine and I admit, I didn't particularly liked her in the beginning but this is also where I saw Ms. Henley's impressive talent.  She wasn't afraid to put a flaw on her hero and heroine.  Both Falcon and Jasmine have flaws of their own, which eventually made me liked them and admire them.  Jasmine is also very young, only 18.  She acted her age which is more realistic.  I've read books where the heroine is only 18 or younger yet acted so maturely that it becomes too good to be true.  Not Jasmine...Besides her beauty and her white magics, she WAS totally spoiled and useless as a wife!  She likes nice clothes, to look her best and wants to be a Lady-in-Waiting for the Queen.  She has her own plans and she's also living in a fantasy world, but mainly because of her grandmother ways of bringing her up.  In the end, you will see her trying to be USEFUL, so to speak. That's when she becomes more lovable in my eyes.  <br />Another part which actually amuses me more than anything is Falcon's lusty appetite towards Jasmine.  Testosterone Machine, Indeed!  I know others are annoyed by this but not me.  I enjoyed the idea of Falcon's strong desire for his wife, and I mean strong! To top it all, Jasmine is PRUDE and won't have anything of that!  Perhaps it's the challenge and the anticipation that makes Falcon even more lustful for his wife.  I tell you, I've never read such a book.  Most of my books have mutual desire and enjoyment when it comes to their lovemaking.  Once again, Ms. Henley proves her unique ideas and implemented it well.  I don't know if I should envy Jasmine or feel sore for her... oh I mean, SORRY for her.  lol. <br />My sister suggested this trilogy to me.  I didn't check the rating before reading it which I am glad I didn't, I might have been discourage and would have missed a good novel.  I was surprise the overall rating of this book is only 3 1/2.  In my opinion, THE FALCON AND THE FLOWER is full of NEW concepts and representation for me.  It is a unique read and I totally enjoyed it.	2001-08-12
US	48819053	R347BQIBGHU0HJ	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A &quot;So-so&quot; Read...	Since Julie Garwood is one of my favorite historical romance author, I've read and enjoyed all of her works in that genre.   However, I am sad to admit that I didn't particularly enjoy this one.  I didn't even want to write a review here for fear of ruining her overall rating.  Inasmuch as I admire Julie Garwood, I also must be honest.  In my opinion, THE WEDDING fell short in compare to her other works.  The usual Garwood magic that draw readers to the story wasn't in this book at all.  The primary characters was not as impressive but then they are not disappointing either.  They are just alright.  The plot also didn't seem to pull me in.  However, it is not dragging nor boring either.  The first part was funny and somewhat interesting but the latter part became a &quot;so-so&quot; read.  Perhaps it is only me and my expectations of Ms. Garwood's work.  Perhaps it is because I've read all of her books which made Connor and Brenna's story simple and somewhat familiar to me?  I don't know.  I only know that this book was just an ordinary read.  It was not as &quot;drawing&quot;, &quot;pulling&quot; nor impressive as I expected it to be.  The add-on consolation of this book are the secondary characters especially the appearance of Alec and Jamie.  They are the main characters of THE BRIDE, which is the prequel of this book.  I enjoyed Alec and Jamie's story way better than this one.  Perhaps I am even being generous by rating this book a 3 stars but as a Julie Garwood fan, I couldn't bring myself to give her a lower rating than this.  Afterall, I thought THE WEDDING was overall a &quot;so-so&quot; read.  It wasn't worst nor bad at all.... Only, it's also not Julie Garwood's best work...far from it.   Now, that's only my own opinion.  If you are a first time Julie Garwood reader, pick up any of her books but don't start with this one.  She is truly a gifted and an amazing author.  This one just happens to be a short flaw.  I guess, everyone is entitled to that.	2001-08-08
US	48819053	R1GSO3C59FNH69	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	91	107	N	N	Oh, WOW!  Encore... A 10 stars!	I have rated lots of 5 stars in my book reviews but it's been such a long time since I've enjoyed a novel out of its 100% content.  The last book I rated a 10 was A KINGDOM OF DREAM by Judith McNaught. Now, I will once again rate this book a 10 if I could.  The emotional roller coaster pulled me completely that I couldn't put this book down even if I wanted to.  Every characters especially the hero and the heroine were very well defined, well developed and well executed.  Robert and Bel's relationship was very different than my usual read.  The Duke and his Mistress.  The Paragon and the Fallen angel.  The ever admired, ever-respected Robert Knight, Duke of Hawkcliffe.  He who have always lived his life in high esteemed.  A Gentleman and a Nobleman in the true meaning of the word.  Meanwhile, the ever-beautiful and sought after Cyprian, Belinda Hamilton. No matter how forced and spare her circumstances is, shes looked upon as a Lady of Pleasure...  In a higher and classier environment perhaps but still a harlot nonetheless.   I was afraid 'they' wouldn't work.   I was fearful in the beginning that this book would not be of a happy ending.  I was so tempted to read the back for a small peek.   Like I said, I was new to this kind of plot.  I didnt know what to expect which only made the story more captivating for me.  The author's note at the end of the book was also very helpful.  It'll make you understand the plot more.  The situation Robert and Belinda are in was difficult and emotionally draining. Its complicated yet never lacking of love.  There is sexual tension between them but their love was not even based on that.  Their relationship was first business-like then moved on to friendship...then getting to know each other and eventually developing into something deeper.  That's when their love making became even more beautiful.  Awww!  My heart and my nerves was on a spasmodic-mode all throughout this book.  I was truly exhausted with reliefat the end. The dreamy ending was magnificently written. Big-Smile &amp; Goose-bumps alert!  lol.  I tell you, this book is truly OVERWHELMING and Oh, how I love it!  <br />NOTE: This is the first book of the KNIGHT MISCELLANY SERIES.   Lord of Fire and Lord of Ice, story of the twins, Lucien and Damien's is next.  They are Robert's 3rd and 4th brothers. To be release, Spring 2002.  I am so happy that this is a book series as I am anxious to read updates of Robert &amp; Bel, as well as Jacinda and oh the ever-roguish, ALEC.  I have read all of Gaelen Foley's work, this is by far the best one she's ever written.  THE PIRATE PRINCE of the Ascension Trilogy is also my favorite but is only 2nd to THE DUKE.  Once again, My HAT'S OFF to Ms. Foley.	2001-08-02
US	48819053	RIIBF17VN8N99	0553298070	104096156	Outlaw Hearts	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Lifetime of True Love...	My sister and an Amazon friend (Ambrangel) suggested this book to me months and months ago.  Honestly, I was a very hesitant in buying this book 'cuz of the Frontier/Western setting, plus R. Bittner is new to me.  From time to time, I do enjoy these kinds of settings, however, I've always preferred England/Scotland locations.  Since I was too stingy to buy this book, my sister decided to lend me her copy for trial.  In the end, I bought a copy for my own collection and a bunch more of R. Bittner's work.  What a stubborn dolt I am, huh?  I should have listened sooner!  <br />I totally agree with the reviewer Ambrangel, from Attleboro, MA.  This book is a rollercoaster ride of emotions.  It's fast-phasing and filled with electrifying adventure.   Lots of heart breaking circumstances yet oh so full of LOVE too.  I have never read a book that's so tragic and yet so magical at the same time.  The obstacles & sacrifices they've been through will ache your heart.  Their faith and the power of their love will amaze you.  Miranda and Jake's love for each other and their children will truly touch your heart and your soul.  Indeed, OUTLAW HEARTS is unique!  I've never read a book that spanned 20+ years of the hero/heroine's life story. From the time they've met, all the way to them being grandparents... No epilogue needed here!  It's complete and utterly satisfying.  Read this one (with tissue on hand, by the way) and you won't regret it.	2001-08-01
US	48819053	RSKTIPN8W9B6K	0553563335	844209901	Fairest of Them All	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beauty is what's inside ones heart...	The rich and the fairest Holly De Chastel considered her beauty a curse.  She wanted people to look through her heart, not at her face.  She wanted a person who could love her for who she is, not what she is.  She's tired of men gaping at her, tired of men singing her praises, doing her biddings...all for her beauty.  Meanwhile, the handsome Austyn Gavenmore have always believed that he too is curse.  Him, his ancestors and even the Gavenmore descendants are all cursed by a fairy called Rhiannon.  Love will be their mortal weakness and beauty be their eternal doomed.  He distance himself from beautiful Ladies and especially from LOVE.  <br />I enjoyed the first half and the ending of this book.  It's emotionally tupsy-turvy.  There's lots of smiling, chuckling and laughing-out-loud scenes. The characters were all portrayed wonderfully.  Every single one of them contributed to the success of the story.  From the H/H to the secondary characters of Carey, Winfred, Elspeth, Nate and etc...  I enjoyed Holly's character more than anything in this book though.  She is definitely a riot.  Spoiled, carefree, clever, mischievous, determined yet charming and full of heart.  Her father's love and dedication towards her was just one of my many favs in this book.  I also love the heart warming part of which Austyn eventually develops an affection to his 'ugly' wife.  Yes, not homely but ugly.  This is where it proves that beauty is indeed in the eye of the beholder and beauty is what's inside ones heart.  Austyn character was a complex one.  He is strong, handsome, patient and determined as well.  However, he is also scared, confuse and always wary.  The heart wrenching 'revelation' scene and its consequences was a twister... Oh, that's when you get sad and frustrated.  But as usual, the ending is a grand relief.  I also love the Epilogue of this book.  The fun and warmth continued even then.  <br />The reason why I didn't rate this a  five stars is 'cuz somewhere after the firsthalf of the book, the &quot;curse&quot; thing seemed overly done and talked about too much.  I know that the &quot;curse&quot; is the initial plot in the first place but for me, it gotten way too repetitive and some of the consequences became too overblown.  I guess you can say that I also expected more resistance from Holly.  She was supposedly very proud &amp; head-strong in the beginning therefore I expected and wanted to see her fighting back or to do something other than just to wait and see...  I know she was locked up and not much she can do, I guess... but still, I wanted more effort on her behalf.  That's just a small niggle in my part.  I've always enjoyed Teresa Medeiros' work and this isn't an exemption.  Overall, I recommend this book to everyone for it was truly an entertaining read.	2001-08-01
US	48819053	R7IXBPU0QQW7R	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Finale of the Ascension Trilogy	TRILOGY IN SEQUEL: The Pirate Prince.....The Princess......The Prince Charming<br />We return to the finale of Gaelen Foley's make believe Isle of Acsencion and the Di Fiori family series.  I admired the way she create such unique Island, surrounding it with real Spanish &amp; Mediterranean countries, molding it with history and spicing it with adventure and dreamy romance.  It's fast-phase, educational and heart soaring.  <br />Raff and Dani's love story is a mixture of beauty and frustration.  One minute, everything's dreamy, as it should be.  Next thing you know, a hard twist ruins the fairy tale and into a nightmare. I have read all of G.F's work and she continue to amaze me. She knows how to weave stories that brings out different emotions of her readers. In this book, I specially fancy how Raff and Dani's relationship strenghtens through the obstacles they encountered. I also enjoyed Raff character.  He was portrait as a carefree, nonchalant and rogue in PRINCESS. However, this was all a facade for deep down, he is somewhat bitter and insecure. So because of this, he's very much misunderstood by his people especially the elders in his father's council.  Meanwhile, Daniela's destitute circumstances left her no choice but to take drastic measures in order to survive.  She has responsibility to her ill grandfather and she also wants to help those who are poor and oppressed.  That's when the famous MASK RIDER came to exist.  Like Raff, Dani also lived her life with a facade.  Courageous, strong, willfull in the outside yet scared and longing in the inside.  Both needed each other to fill in their needs and weaknesses.  Their initial heart pumping meeting and the heart warming father-son scene at the end is only a couple of my favorites... There is a lot more, of course.<br />There's two reasons why I didn't rate this book a five stars.  One is my disappointments in Lazar and Allegra's parenthood.  Both had so much love in them in THE P.P that I expected more of them as parents...For some reason their parenthood not only in this book but also in PRINCESS, became somewhat lacking.  They are too involved with themselves and seems to take their children for granted.  Second reason is that one unforgettable and utterly distasteful scene of Dani sitting in Raff's lap while he was caressing her - during a council meeting!  To add fuel to the fire, Dani would interupt during the meeting demanding the council's respect for Raff.  Oaaaakay!  Perhaps this is to prove her loyalty towards Raff but heck, I find that scene disturbing, embarrasing and totally lack of good breeding.  She acted as if she belonged there as a queen already and they aren't even married yet. I doubt even the Queen herself would degrade herself by sitting in the King's lap during a council meeting.  I hated that part of the book. Totally lack of self respect &amp; decorum.  Yuck!   I was turned off for awhile, took me days to repick up the book... but as I continued to read on, the adventure and romance simply overshadowed that silly scene. I just try to forget that part of the book. Ugh.  Oh well, Despite my above complaints, I manage to rate this book a 4 stars because overall, it is totally entertaining. I recommend it to everyone who enjoys a good heart soaring novel.  So, Don't wait, read the Ascension Trilogy and be 'awed' by this new Author.	2001-07-30
US	48819053	R12K930GYQVMAS	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Ah, Forbidden Love...	TRILOGY IN SEQUEL: The Pirate Prince.....The Princess......The Prince Charming<br />In addition to the EDITORIAL REVIEWS above: I specially admired the way Gaelen Foley created a make-believe Island of Ascension and molding it with the facts of history. It makes the history of Napoleon's family and his conquest, The Russian Czar's, French Revolution, Spanish Colonies and etc. more of an interesting read.   Although, this one was a bit slow and wordy in the beginning compared to the other two books in the series, it's still an entertaining read.  Educational and fun at the same time.<br />Darius Santiago: Definitely DARK and scarred hero.  He was introduce to us in the first book of the series, The Pirate Prince.  At that time, he was only 15 years old yet he's been through a lot of hardship.  Abused and enslaved.  However he was also characterized as a courageous and determined young man, who's also very loyal to King Lazar.  I was intrigued by his darkness so I was looking forward to read his own book.   Although, there was no detailed mention of what Darius went through during his slavery years in the hands of Malik (in The Pirate Prince), which I was looking forward to read,  I was still not disappointed by this book at all.  Oh, there's summary of his overall past, his tragedy years since childhood which made me feel for Darius.  It made me even admire his resistance and his disciplined manner.  He grew up quite, distant and secretive.  He concentrated on himself.  Worked hard on being the best in what he does.  He achieved everything that he thought mattered to him except deep down he needed something more... he needed love and Serifina. Despite his darksides, he is still an honorable man in most ways, that is why he had loved Sarifina for so long in secret.  He knows the Princess is off limit to him. The King had entrusted Serifina's safety over to him.  He is to guard her and not to have her for his own... He meant to keep the King's trust.    <br />Meanwhile, The Princess Serifina: Beautiful, Rich, Royalty... not to mention KIND yet spoiled, carefree, impulsive, determined and a rebel with a cause... a very dangerous combination and a very irresistible one as well.   There is no self pity here for Serifina.  She knows what she wants then heads out to get it.   She isn't like some Princess story you normally would read who has a &quot;pity-me-poor-little-rich-princess&quot; attitude.  Nope, not Serifina.  She knows she is a Princess and she knows her station and her rank in life.  She would even use that valuable information to her advantage... and why not?  Call it selfish at times but that is what makes her more realistic in my eyes.  No martyrdom or overly good hearted Princess here either.  Serifina is unique and quite admirable.  I enjoyed her spunk, her witt and overall attitude.  She knows she wants Darius... so by treachery, seduction or even an honest-to-goodness confession, she meant to have him and she will.  <br />Darius and Serifina's love story was truly an adventure. Pulse racing, heart stopping and heart warming all in one.  The reason why I didn't rate this book a five stars is 'cuz of the slow, wordy and repetitive information's.  Also, I would have prefer Lazar and Allegra to be more involved in their daughter's life.  It is admirable how they trusted Darius to care for Serifina's safety but it would have been a loving read to see both parents spend some quality time with her daughter.  Most specially a mother-daughter relationship scenes perhaps.  For both to talk about personal things such as love.  Considering Allegra was such a loving heroine in The Pirate Prince, who found true happiness and true love, I would have thought she would want the same for her daughter.  Both Allegra and Lazar had so much love in them in THE P.P that I expected more of them as parents.  For some reason their parenthood here became somewhat lacking.  Oh well, despite that small self-preferences, this book is totally entertaining.  It will capture not only your heart but your mind as well.  It will also lure you to read the next book of the series, The PRINCE CHARMING.  Don't wait, read the Ascension Trilogy and be 'awed' by this new Author.	2001-07-27
US	48819053	R1XQ7BXHNYKD9B	0312954786	919384603	Devil's Prize	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Lust is not Love...	Kat Martin is one of my favorite authors.  She always knows how to weave unique and heart quenching stories, that is why I have read a lot of her works.  I have also enjoyed every single one of them except for this unfortunate one. As you have read in the above Editorial Review's, the plot does have potentials.  The beginning of this book was actually 'pulling' and quite interesting. Damien was also an intriguing hero.  Aside from his rakish reputation, he lived a dangerous life and has many secrets.  I enjoyed the way he seduces Alexa.  I love his charms and the way he carry himself.  The heroine however was a bit too senseless to fully like.  I mean, in the beginning, she was very likable.  Alexa is a very beautiful heiress.  Many nobleman doted on her yet she doesn't let that get to her head.   She is spunky, rebellious and supposedly intelligent and witty.  Hmmm... so i don't understand how and why she ended up doing the most oafish acts.  The first time she manage to get herself and Damien in trouble, I actually slammed-SHUT the book.  Mind you, I do like frustrating twisters but what she did was just totally dumb and OUT OF PLACE.  I decided to give the book another try the next day.  Who knows she might make up for that foolishness.  YEA, RIGHT~!   I agree with one reviewer here who said that Alexa definitely have no sense of the danger she puts herself and her husband in.  I understand she is young and a bit impulsive but my gosh, how can someone simply blurt out a serious accusation about ones husband, someone who supposedly she was already half in love with.  How can someone blab-out confidential informations and to a stranger, no less!  Oh, of which I might add that she doesn't even have a proper proof or first hand knowledge of the informations and accusation she was blabbering about.  Ugh.  Perhaps Kat Martin wanted Alexa to sound naive and patriotic at the same time but I just can't comprehend how a girl who is supposedly well educated can exhibit a lack of power to absord the tiniest idea or impression such as SAFETY.  If she can't trust her husband, how can she simply trust a complete stranger?  I don't get it.  This is the main reason why even in the end, I still wasn't convince that there is love between both of them.  Even Damien's so called LOVE to Alexa was not credible enough to leave a lasting mark on me.  Their strong physical attraction, their great sexual acts and perhaps even their dangerous adventure was what kept them both together.   In my opinion, their relationship was base more on lust than love.  If not for the interesting beginning, the French-English-SPY plot, Damien's character and the sexual tension, I would have rated this book a 2 stars.  <br />NOTE: The prequel of this book is SWEET VENGEANCE. Story of Rayne and Jo, brother/sister-in-law of Alexa.  They were pretty much involved all throughout this book that they have piqued my interest.  Had I known this book has a prequel, I would have read it first.  Yes, I haven't read S.V yet but I believe I will once I get a chance.  This unfortunate experience with Devil's Prize definitely didn't discourage me from reading more of Kat Martin works. I still believe she is a gifted and a talented writer.  To be honest, this book isn't too bad.  But it's not up to Kat Martin's usual style and standard either.  Well, try this one anyway... who knows, u might like it more than I have.	2001-07-24
US	48819053	RKA599X8RGJS2	0553581147	866370771	Lady of Conquest	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Ending needs revision...	I honestly didn't know how to rate this book in the beginning.  After the book ended, I didn't even know whether I liked it or not.   Thing is, I had to read this book twice in order to get a proper conclusion.  Then, I realized it isn't an awful read to deserve lower than 2 stars nor was it a &quot;so-so-not-bad&quot; kind of book to deserve a 3 stars either.  I admit, I particularly didn't like the ending of this book.  I would have love to see Conn proved his trust, begged or perhaps even 'ask' Gelina for forgiveness and acceptance with more effort, depth and passion.  I didn't appreciate the idea of someone as strong-headed and strong-willed as Gelina to simply fall over and forgive after hearing a sweet one-liner from Conn's lips!  The Epilogue didn't help much either.  Perhaps the ending should be revised.  Anyway, The initial plot of this book is a LOVE/HATE relationship.  To be honest, it kindda make u feel the same way about the whole story in general too.  Conn and Gelina's relationship was melancholy yet luring and intriguing. Heart rending, relief and more heart wretching all throughout the book. What Gelina went through in the hands of Conn-her martyrdom, her confusions, her courage and her love &amp; hatred!  She is brave yet she isn't afraid to cry also.  That makes her more human in my eyes.  I really like her.  Conn did a lot of awful things to Gelina that makes my heart ache but then again, she also did her share to infuriate even a Saint.  A man's pride, honor and ego can only take so much of a blow!  Conn actually did give her chances but then Gelina's young, not to mention that she was shaped to hate Conn from an early age.  How can one differentiate love from hatred when both is felt and given in extreme passion?  ugh, totally frustrating.  A very emotional read.  So perhaps this is why I rated this book a 4 stars in the end.  I had conflicting emotions, conflicting opinions of this book.  It made me think about it even after it was put down.When I was ready to write my review, I read here that there is indeed a lot of controversy about this book.  Some hate it, some love it.  If an author can pull readers together this way, I say it deserve a higher rating.  If not for the abrupt ending, I would have rated this &quot;one of a kind&quot; book a fiver.  <br />This is only my third book of Teresa Medeiros but I will most definitely read more of her works.  The Ireland setting in this book also piqued my curiosity since most of the historical romance books I've read are in Scotland/Highland-England settings.  This love/hate relationship in an Ireland setting was a distinctive and a refreshing change. I like it, so... TRY this book.  I won't guarantee that you will find it as I see it but then again you might even enjoy it more than I have.  This book is not for everyone.  It's all a matter of taste and preferences.	2001-07-21
US	48819053	R210WAAYA1TKC2	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hat's Off to Ms. Foley!	I bought this book out of pure wonder.  I believe Gaelen Foley is a new author, yet her books ratings and reviews were all highly inputed that I decided to try her out myself... Upon my research, I've noticed that most of her books especially this one (The Pirate Prince) is extremely hard to find.  It was out of print until recently due to popular demands.  Before the reprinting, this particular book can also be found very limitedly on ebay for up to 50 bucks a piece (used paperback, mind u)... Now if that isn't enough reasons to pique your interest and to challenged you into reading it, then I dunno what would.   So, I ordered and actually bought all four of her books.  I must admit, that move was kindda abrupt so I just crossed my fingers and hoped I won't regret it... Well, base on the 5 stars rate i've just given here, u know now that I didn't regret that impulsive act. In fact, this book and the Ascension Trilogy are on my favorite book list nowadays.  It was worth all my effort of searching, waiting and the READ.   <br />In addition to the EDITORIAL REVIEWS above: I specially admired the way Gaelen Foley created a make-believe Island of Ascension then molding it with the facts of history. It makes the read of history more interesting. I thought I'd be bored reading about Napoleon's family and his conquest, The Russians Czar's, French Revolution, Spanish Colonies and etc... but my, was I wrong. It was educational yet fun and a page turner as well.  <br />Lazar and Allegra:  Wow! They were both soooo real yet sooo dreamy. I am enthralled. Their love story was a combination of everything... Mouth-gaping action twist, heart pumping sexual tension,  irritating-frustrating encounters, intriguing dark secrets, heart warming love scenes, teary circumstances and RELIEF!!! Now, if these aren't your requirements for PURE ENTERTAINMENT in your books then I'd say, u are better off asleep :-) ...certainly no dull moments here.     This book will capture not only your heartbut your mind as well.  It will also lure you to read the next book of the series.  Don't wait, read the Ascension Trilogy and be 'awed' by this new Author.  Amazing read!  Hat's off, Ms. Foley!	2001-07-21
US	48819053	R3KRXOYWWCCYCV	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	66	73	N	N	Warmth and Humor	SEQUEL: THE WEDDING<br />I have read almost all of Julie Garwood's work and I've never been disappointed.  She will always be my all time favorite author esp. in Historical Romance Genre.  Upon observation, I do agree with most avid Julie Garwood readers that she tend to use the same characteristics and somewhat similar formulas in most of her works - Her heroes are mostly tall, large-brutish-warrior &amp; intimading yet handsome who is gentle and patient to his Lady.  Meanwhile, the heroines are usually petite, well educated, saucy and spunky.  However, I confessed that these familiarities doesn't seem to bother me at all.  In fact, I liked it.   Every now and then, I do enjoy my books with such characteristics.  I'm guessing, this is J.G's style, her mark/her signature traits and I respect that.   Humor, heart warming scenes, heart pumping twist and lovable secondary characters are also just a few of Julie Garwood's usual ingredients in all her novels.  <br />THE BRIDE is definitely not an exception of Ms. Garwood's standard book qualities which I've mention above.  Alec and Jamie's love story was captivating.  Full of warmth and humor - I liked the idea that Jamie has no sense of direction, not to mention her ways of saving Alec's soul by buying an indulgence -chuckle!  You have to read the book to appreciate this scene with a good laugh.   My favorite part was the initial meeting (the conversation in the stable and the &quot;choosing&quot;)... from there, the book gets funnier &amp; even better!  The arrival and adjustments in Highland are as always interesting. The suspense of finding out the murderer in this book was an add-on thrill.  I have my doubts and guesses but the revelation was quite unexpected.  I actually thought the murderer would be ----- yet I prayed and cross my fingers that it wouldn't be him because I liked him so much.  So in a way, I was relieved it wasn't who I thought it was.  The ending of this book was also one of my favorite in this book,  another very unexpected and thoroughly heart warming conclusion to a supreme love story.  Mary, Daniel, Gavin, Angus, Elizabeth, Father Murdock are just a few secondary character-favs of mine.  What a joy!  Read this book and chuckle with a glowing heart.	2001-07-21
US	48819053	RFXITK197KX1C	0505523639	699299684	One Lucky Lord (Wink & a Kiss)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Indeed,DON'T judge a book by its cover. Least, not this one!	I have enjoyed Karen Hawkin's style of writing in both ABDUCTION OF JULIA and A BELATED BRIDE so when I found out Kim Bennet was one of her pseudonym, naturally I was pique to read this one book under that name.  However, I must admit, I was very hesistant at first cuz the front cover looked very silly to me. The guy looked weak and sheepish-not fetching for my kind of hero at all.  I don't know exactly what made me change my mind but I am truly happy I ordered it in the end.  This book provided me with a wonderful LAUGH all throughout my day off.  After a long week of hectic work load, ONE LUCKY LORD is a perfect company for days off like today.  <br />In addition to the Editorial Reviews and Kim Bennet's words herself... I'd like to add how much I enjoyed both Fia and Thomas.  Their love story was convincing and heart warming to me because it took time to develop.  All the secondary characters (&amp; the comical animals) contributed a lot of spice to the story.  Oh, the dashing, smooth talker Robert ~  I wish Karen Hawkin's would write a book just for him.  I also love Duncan.  A book just for him would also be an interesting read.  <br />My gosh, truly, how many books have made you smile, chuckle, giggle and then laugh out loud all in just one chapter?  For me, It's &quot;NONE&quot; till this one.... I have never read such an all-out-amusing book, yet manages to be romantically touchy at the same time.  Julie Garwood also holds a lot of humor in her works.  That is why she is my top favorite author.  I have enjoyed and loved her style eversince I begun reading historical romance novels but so far, base on this one,  Karen Hawkin's/Kim Bennet's ONE LUCKY LORD simply topped it all in HUMOR.  A lot of unbelievably comical and laughable scenes!  Can't wait to lend this book to my sister.  Oh, Umm... perhaps I should just ask her to buy her own copy.  Can't part with this one just yet :-)    <br />Do yourself a great favor and read this book.  Afterall, Laughter is indeed the best medicine.	2001-07-13
US	48819053	R3T9P5O8I1JVCY	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Classic at its best...	My sister's been raving about this book for years.  It's not until months ago did I have the guts to pick it up.  It's been sitting in my mini-library since I got it too...  Then my sister once again kept asking &quot;Have you read 'it' yet?&quot;  So, to stop this question from coming up in every turn, I decided to read it. I honestly expected this book to bore me to death considering the author is from the late 17th century.  What fun could a writer be of that time, huh?  Oh not to mention, the author was unmarried.  What does she know about romance, right?  Well, I was mistaken.  I enjoyed this book sooo much, I ordered the DVD movie of it.  There was some &quot;slow&quot; moments in this book however, I think it's the over-description of everything.  But once you got through that, the book flows with lots of humor and intensity.  I liked Elizabeth from the start. Mr. Darcy was kindda hard to like in the beginning but as soon as the book progress, you would love him and would want him for your own :-)  The Dialogue in this book was my favorite of all.  Uppity, Humorous, Lyrical, Heart warmer and truly of its time.<br />I have read more than 80 historical romance novels in this year alone and I honestly think most of the ideas and formulas (marriage mart) were derived from this book (did i dare say that?).  I couldn't believe this book was actually written at that time period.  Amazing!  Truly Classic at its best.	2001-07-11
US	48819053	R1A6GIKPE987YF	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Laugh and Sigh...Unforgetable!	FINALLY! ...Like many of you, I too have been anxiously waiting for this book. I have loved both THE DUKE AND I (1st book of the series) &amp; THE VISCOUNT WHO LOVE ME (2nd book). The Bridgerton's are all adorable LOT. I enjoyed each and every one of them... So naturally, I expected to love this book just as much. However, I am surprise that it has exceeded my own expectation. I read it late last night after I got home from work, 11:30pm and finished it just an hour ago, 7:30am. Try as I might, I just couldn't put it down. Embarrassingly, I still have that Tingle-Goosebumps feeling, not to mention a silly smile is still imprinted on my face! To think I haven't even slept yet...and I have duty at 3pm again today. HA!I will be daydreaming of Benedict and Sophie then. I will definitely read this book again tonight! I tell you this book is dreamy! Romance story telling at its best! It's been a long time since a book thoroughly affected me this way. Truly a heart quenching, heart warming read.  <br />The Editorial Reviews pretty much sums up the book synopsis so I'll just throw in my opinion of the book without summarizing it: <br />At first, I thought this book is going to be another RETELLING of a CINDERELLA story, which I don't mind at all. I thought I'd pretty much know what will happened next and how this book will end but I was wrong. Ms. Quinn is truly such a gifted writer. She knows how to use the fairy tale Cinderella story we all know and love.... then she molded it with her own ideas, filling it with humor and hearty twists for a spunk of uniqueness. There is no &quot;Dark-Past&quot;, &quot;Bad-Boy&quot;, &quot;Rakish-Rogue&quot; image here for Benedict Bridgerton, which was a refreshing change of character from the books I've been reading lately. He is actually normal and very Gentlemanly-Decent and Proper. Sophia is no over-uppity, spunky-witty noblewoman. She struggled all her life. Struggled to find happiness.She does have principles and values yet she is also human, weak to a fault esp. when her heart is concern. She wanted to be loved and to be accepted all her life... She longed to BELONG... That was her weakness, of which she felt when she's with Benedict and his family.Oh, how she makes me teary. The confrontation, confession, revelations were all heart quenching. The ending was a great relief! <br />I normally would prefer lots of updates and apprearances of the heros/heroines of the previous books in the series.  In this book however, there is very few appearances of Anthony and Dafne... and even none of Simon and Kate yet I still give this book a 5 stars rating.  You see, despite that small niggle, I still felt satisfied and complete with this book.  There was updates of their children and that seems to be enough.  Probably because Benedict and Sophie's love story caught me deeply, overwhelmed me that it made me forget about the others.  Or probably it's just Ms. Quinn's style of writing that just leave her readers fully content in the end.    <br />The Lady Whistledown Gossip Column is as always the added intrigue not only in this book but all throughout the entire series. I tell you, the more I read, the more I know for sure who this person is. I can't wait to read the next book on this Bridgerton series.I am assuming it's Colin's and Penelope?  Hmmm....  I honestly don't want this series to end! I fear it is close to its end. Ugh~ Well, I suggest you all start ordering Julia Quinn's BRIDGERTON SERIES.  It is definitely a PLEASURE and a DREAMY read.	2001-07-10
US	48819053	RSW3E0XQKHKHO	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another Worthy Author	This is my first book of Shana Abe and gratefully not be the last.  This is also one of the few books I have dared to picked up without first consulting Amazon ratings &amp; reviewers.  I was totally drawned to this book because of the back book description.  The title itself also intrigued me.  I love Swans as well as Secrets in my book.  So, this one was initially bought out of pure curiosity which fortunately turned out to be quite an arousing read. <br />Lady Amiranth had a crush on Tristan Geraint when she was but only 9 years old...Saw him again a year after that which only heightens her feelings for him.  By the time she was 15, she had love him from afar.  She had prayed for him, dreamed of him for years until her prayers and dreams came true...  She was to marry him by King Edward's demand.  Oh joy!  But... be careful what you wish for!  Tristan was not exactly what she expected him to be.  To begin with, he didn't want her, he had no feelings for her, he didn't even find her pretty.  Tristan also wanted more than just an obligatory marriage and he showed it too.  This is what made this book a heart breaker.  Shana Abe really did touch my heart with her words and descriptions.   Tristan pretty much ignore her most of the time and some of Tristan's actions were rather insensitive but not to the extent of saying he abused her.  Readers must also give consideration that when they married, He was only 19 years old.   Tristan was nothing but a young, arrogant and proud knight.   Also,  in lots of ways, you can see him trying so hard to comprehend and accept his situation.  He was trying to like her, even trying to love her but he doesn't know Amiranth at all.  He doesn't even know what to say to her...  therefore it was hard for him to connect to her.  They also didn't have much time spent together to form a bond... well, in Tristan case anyway.  As for Amiranth, she was already in love with him, therefore, it was a little bit easier for her to accept her marriage compared to him.  That is only my opinion.  I truly find their love story endearing.  The way secrets and conflicts tangled around them would want you to pause a breather.  I had to pause a couple of times also to think what I would do if it was me in the situation and I ponder what would eventually happened.  Some areas are predictable but it's the kind of predictable situation where you would say &quot;oh no, I know that would surely happened &quot; but then you pray it wouldn't.... got me? :-)<br />The reason why I didn't rate this book a 5 stars was because of Shana Abe's over-descriptions of the past, emotions, surroundings and etc.  I also agree with one reviewer that there is definitely lack of dialogue among the characters, especially between Tristan and Amiranth.  They think more than they talk to each other.  Also, the ending of this book was not disappointing but rather a wee bit lacking.  I don't know if this book is part of a series or have a sequel (I guess, it would make a difference if it is)...but for now, I sure would have love to read an Epilogue that tells readers about the hero/heroines offspring's especially in Amiranth's situation.... of Amiranth past of the year 1342.  I don't want to ruin it for others by telling exactly what I meant but once you read the book, u will know what I mean.  <br />Overall, I find this book heart quenchingly sweet, endearing and a worthy entertaintment on a long hot summer night.	2001-07-10
US	48819053	R2V60CY2D65BYK	0440222079	118071953	A Year and a Day (Medieval DeWarenne Trilogy)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Very Historical yet interesting all the same...	This book is my &quot;FIRST BOOK&quot; in three ways...  One, it's my first book of Virginia Henley (and certainly not the last).  Two, it's my first book that the heroine is a very typical commoner who doesn't even know how to read.  I actually thought I'd be turn off by this but as I read through, I learn to understand her situation and sigh for her.  Then eventually, I wanted much, much more for Jane.   Three, this is my first book that is perhaps about 70% filled with historical facts and events reigned during England's King Edward Plantagenet, The Longshanks, with Scotland's Robert Bruce and William Wallace, the famous BRAVEHEART epic.   If you are the type of person who prefers more romance/love story and less historical facts on your books then this one is probably not for you.  Because I saw and love the movie BRAVEHEART, I was and still AM particularly interested in Robert the Bruce &amp; William Wallace's historical (con)quest for rights and freedom, that is why I wasn't bothered with the factual events that seems to overflowed more than the romance of the hero/heroine.  I guess u can say that IF I was NOT already 'drawned' to such topic, I'd probably find this book very tedious.  <br />Since the Editorial Reviews pretty much sum up the book synopsis, I'd just give my opinion without summarizing the content any longer...<br />Jane and Lynx love story was a bit ordinary for me.  Aside for Lynx obsession to have an heir and Jane's adjustments to her new life, their love story didn't have any impact on me, however, it wasn't boring at all either.  There are funny times and heart warming occurances as well but I find Jory's and Robert's love story much more heart wretching.  Mind you, theirs wasn't even detailed bec. they are only the secondary characters yet for some reason, their relationship and Jory's love for Robert seems more fetching.  I wanted to read more of them...  I also enjoyed Jory's character more than Janes.  Jory is uppity, manipulative and abig flirt yet she is also unselfish, charming and full of heart.  I guess you can say that in my opinion, Jory's character overshadowed Jane's.  I did have an admiration for Jane though but she should have been more develop.   Jane was timid and too naive.  Except for her herbal/healing talents, she was a bit ignorant which is fitting for her role and station in life of that time, i guess.  She did improve a bit towards the end but I was left unconvinced, perhaps I just wanted more... What i specially like about Jane is her willingness to try and her willingness to learn.  She doesn't pretend and she wasn't ashamed to accept her flaws... then ask for help to improve.   &quot;I will and I shall&quot;, she always said.... That is what I admire most about her.  <br />I want to clarify a comment given by a reviewer about beastiality... For me, there was NO beastiality in this book at all.  I'd say read this book for yourself and decide if it is indeed beastiality in your opinion.  However,In my own comprehension, it wasn't.  That part with the lynx in the forrest pool was simply a METAMORPHICAL description. A metaphormic vision.   There is also another occurance where readers might find disgusting or wierd...  I won't mentioned it here for those who have not read the book yet but i know readers will know what i mean once they have read the book.   This is where i admire Virginia Henley most.  She has the guts to create new ideas and implemented it.  I do believe that when people read, see or even feel new things or ideas, we tend to shun upon it.  I am always open minded for new things, new ideas and however strange it might be at first, I often times accept it and move on... Afterall, If it was thought of, it most certainly can happend.  <br />I have to agree with few reviewers here that some of the dialogue doesn't sound right.  The expressions Virginia Henley used such as &quot;Dream on&quot;, &quot;Hellavu Woman&quot; and few more didn't fit in to the time period.Those inconsistencies wasn't a lot to get me annoyed however, so I manage to overlook that matter, especially because I did enjoy most part of this book.  I do prefer consistencies in all the books I read but sometimes, it doesn't hurt to let small matters go and simply enjoy the story as it is.  I will pick up more of Ms. Henley's work and that is for sure.	2001-07-08
US	48819053	R272EJ3Q467UN9	0380897393	277828479	When Love Awaits (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	More like 4 1/2 stars....	When Lady Leonie cursed her new neighbor, Rolfe d' Ambert, her people overheard it, took it by the heart and started mischief towards the new Lord of Kempston to show their loyalty to her...  As tempting as it is, Rolfe d' Ambert who is also called the Black Wolf, couldn't just kill all her people to gain peace in his neighboring lands, therefore, without even setting eyes on her, he offered marriage to the saucy Lady Leonie instead. Afterall, He have a mistress to warm his bed anyway.  When his offer was rejected, Rolfe seeked the King's help and got what he wanted.   Lady Leonie knew what her people did and when she knew of the marriage proposal, she was afraid of the retribution he would give her.  But since she had no choice, the marriage concluded.  Roalf did get  the peace he wanted through his neighboring lands but he found himself enexpectedly at war within his Keep, his wife and her heart.  <br />Perhaps I've read too many historical romances already cuz I find this book somewhat a combination of Elizabeth Lowell's UNTAMED, ENCHANTED and Jude Deveraux's VELVET PROMISE.  Of course, there is also a lot in this book that is of it's own originality and identity... but from time to time, I get this Deja Vu feeling... What's so ironic about this though is that I actually loved the combination added to it's originality.  The three books is actually one of my favorites.  Lady Leonie remined me of Judith in the Velvet Promise while Rolfe reminded me of Dominic in Untamed...  Judith is one of my favorite heroine as well, so is Leonie now too... She's independent, intelligent and strong-willed.  She is proud yet humble when the need arise.  She fights for what she believes in but will also give-in when she sees it needed.  She is a LADY through and through...She is also a WIFE, who won't settle for seconds...  Call it selfish but she won't share her husband.  For her, It's all or nothing!   Rolfe d' Ambert is one of a kind.  I don't think he is lacking of character.He is a warrior, yes... but he is also a man falling in love with his wife.  He wanted her to accept him, to love him and he wasn't ashame of that fact.  That made him more of a man in my eyes.  He reached out to her but he is also densed about other things.  MEN!  lol<br />I would have rated this book a full 5 stars if not for the rushed ending.  The book was full of conflicts and misunderstandings which I enjoyed-it's what made the book spicier, more interesting...but i would have love to read more action twist, more acts of solution than just a couple of chapters-page wrapped up in the end.  Kindda like, the book simply ended by a brief conclusion of words, summaries... it was just too soon, too fast of an ending to be fulfulling for me.   I was also expecting a heartwarming reunion and confessions of feelings between Leoni and her father.  I also would have preferred to read Rolfe reaction to her pregnancy.  Seems like that too was left out for reader to ponder upon.  I guess Leonie still like to hold secrets until later....  Oh well, overall, the book was truly a tender, loving read.  I would even put this book under my RE-READ books section for the future.	2001-06-28
US	48819053	R3ROGZQZCQWU3V	0380815257	669363336	A Belated Bride	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A second chance on love...	I have really enjoyed this book. The plot was different. It's about having a 2nd chance in love... and they said that the &quot;second time around love&quot; is suppose to be more filling, right?  Well, it seems like it in this book anyway.   Lucien Deveraux, Duke of Wexford was one of my favorite 2ndary character in ABDUCTION OF JULIA.  His Character description here was just as consistent and well defined.   Despite his imprudence when he was younger, he's still as always the nonchalant gentleman. He is also playful &amp; loving. Arabella Hadley was once naive and trusting, only to be ruined and broken hearted.  So, as the years moved on, she was force by circumstances and experience to become a wiser, bolder and independent woman.  Everything seems to be running along as planned until she faced her long lost tormentor once again.  I truly enjoyed their love story.  The banters, Lucien's sweet talks vs. Arabella's bittersweet tongue... oh their indisputable attraction for each other &amp; the undeniable love that still burns deep inside... These are just a few that made this book a hearty read.   The amusing secondary characters of the AUNTS, the heart warming crippled brother, the spoiled brazen sis-in-law and even the villains are all well put-together.  It was a romantic and an adventuristic ride at the same time.  <br />The reason why I didn't rate this book a 5 stars was cuz of the NO appearance of Alec and Julia. My gosh, I was greatly expecting an appearance or perhaps a small contribution of them in this story considering Alec is Lucien's best friend but nope, none whatsoever. Somehow, I felt I was cheated.  This is suppose to be AOJ's sequel, right? There was a sentence or two about Julia and her projects but I knew all this already from the previous book. Awww, I was really disappointed.  To be honest, this was my initial reason why I picked up this book. I mean, I do like Lucien. He was intriguing and a nonchalant figure in AOJ, however, I wasreally looking forward on reading updates of Julia, Alec and perhaps their children?  UPDATES: isn't that what sequels are all about?   It would have been lovely to read a little of the characters in AOJ, maybe a little of Muck?  Oh well, Nick's book is suppose to be next.  I hope Ms. Hawkin's will make it up by writing lots of updates of everyone in both AOJ and ABB.  <br />So, if you've read the ABDUCTION OF JULIA and is expecting some sort of updates or appearance of Alec and Julia in this book, DON'T.  Don't even think it, that way you won't feel disappointed and will simply enjoy the whole book as it is.  I sure hope I was warned... Then, I would have rated this book a 5 stars.	2001-06-21
US	48819053	R1XZI96SKWRKRD	0843930861	321646437	Gemfire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Non-stop Emotional Topsy-Turvy	21 years old Chase Dupre won a feisty girl of 15yrs in a hand of poker. Obligation forced him to helped her and decided to bring her home with him.  Gem McBride had no where else to go but stay with Chase.  It was a warm welcome to be part of a family, a loving one, at that.  She became Chase's little cousin only to realized she was falling in love with him.  She was however just a &quot;'Lil KID&quot; to him.  What makes this book different from others is Chase 5 years seperation from Gem, who awaits his return everyday, hoping they would get married someday.... but upon his return, Chase brought home a wife.  Ugh, now that hurts!  I didn't ruin this for others because this is actually what the back book description would tell you.  I just thought I'd mention it here since there is no book synopsis here in Amazon.  I tell you, this book will break your heart to pieces the first half of the book.  It will also make you believe in the power of true love.  At the same time, it will make you fear it.  There are times I wanted Gem to forget Chase and simply move on with her life but then the more you read R.L.H's words, the more you'll see Gem's heart and feel it at the same time. I wanted her to have Chase as badly as she does.  No matter how hard she tries, no matter how much she wants to remain honorable, it's her heart and she can't do anything about it.  Their love story is truly heart warming!  <br />Heart breaking love story...relief...thrilling mystery suspense...relief....frustrating consequences...relief....then another conflict would come out of no where, surprising you out of your seat!  This is another emotional topsy-turvy book you surely wouldn't want to miss. <br />I've always been impressed with Ms. Robin Lee Hatcher's talent.  She is the only historical romance novel author with an American setting that I would read without hesistations.  She had already proven her worth to me in the AMERICANA SERIES.  Reading Gemfire magnified and confirmed my opinion.	2001-06-21
US	48819053	R2QY983C3IFDTB	0804119309	840415127	The Last Knight	Books	5	16	17	N	N	INDEED!	This is my first book of Candice Proctor and happily not the last.  THE LAST KNIGHT is one of the books recommended to me.  To my dismay, I didn't pick this book up sooner just because Candice Proctor was unknown to me.  shucks!  I didn't really pay much attention to it until I decided to check the ratings. The all  \\"5 stars\\" rating and the intriguing comments turned me into buying this book.  I am truly thankful for all the reviewers who have left their helpful comments... not only did I have a fabulous time, I found myself a new worthy author to look into.  I totally agree with the rest of the reviewers here... Indeed, this book is captivating! Full of love, passion and adventure.  It was a lovely change to read a hero and heroine expressing their love to each other from the very start of the story.  No hesistations, no pretentious, no denials.  They love each other, said so and showed it with passion.  This book is about a knight with a dark past who swore fealty to the King and a young Lady who is caught between loyalty, treachery and family honor.   Damion and Attica are both honorable people.  They both have set the same high standards of values.   Attica: proud, strong willed, courageous and loyal.  Damion might not admit it willingly but he is chivalrous, loyal and a true gentleman.    So what happends when all these honorable traits (especially Loyalty) hinders love and happiness?  What to do when values and strong beliefs stands between love and life?  Which path to choose? Ah, truly a heart-stopping, heart warming read.  A very entertaining book!  I can't wait to read more of Ms. Proctor's works.	2001-06-16
US	48819053	R1AL89HW5NVPCG	0553577611	365055445	The Rose and the Warrior	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Delightful	This is my third book of Karyn Monk and I say, she does have the talent to captivate her readers. She's gifted with words to open your mind and soars your heart.  <br />As usual, like every other books of Karyn Monk that I have read, her characters are always well defined.  Tired, battle-scarred Roarke and the capable, courageous Melantha are both very interesting couple. In my opinion, there is no lacking in character description or development.  You will see through them and will have different views of what they are and what they've been through.  However, I did wish they would spent more time together to develop their relationship or their love for each other.  I guess base on their circumstances, it is essential to create it as it is...that's just a small niggle on my part.  This is not a simply love story book, there is lots of dishonorable acts yet with reasons you can comprehend as u read through it.  I did feel sad reading what Melantha have been through in her short life...the McKillon's hardship especially the hungry children squeezed my heart.  It'll make u despise the over-bearing and the selfish McTiers but then again, it's all part of the &quot;war&quot;, part of what it use to be. Sadly,  the weak becomes weaker while the strong becomes stronger.  Ms. Monk words will also make u see the viewpoint of a warrior who have attacked clans for their own advantage.  A warrior who swore fealty to his Laird and simply follow orders without really looking into the circumstances until he was force to see it firsthand...it's truly heart warming.  The  situation and the conflicts of this book is very well written. It will involved you thorougly!  I also enjoyed the secondary characters immensely.  They are definitely a comical spice to this book.  No doubt, the &quot;elders&quot; will truly bring smile to your face.  I also love Roarke's warrior friends, Eric, Myles and Donald.  I wonder if Ms. Monk will write a book for Donald.  I may have rated this book a 4 stars but overall, this book is once again a delightful read.	2001-06-16
US	48819053	R195SHBNCWNY62	0312953038	567073858	Bold Angel	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Heart Squeezer!	Whew!  This book will definitely play with your heart... It's an emotional topsy-turvy book you wouldn't want to miss!<br />I have never read a book such as this one.  The story centralized on the hero/heroine's relationship with each other, which initally formed out of an obligatory deed then advance to the undeniable emotions of LOVE.  There is nothing simple about this book though as Ral and Caryn's attachment to each other didn't come easy.  There was lots of challenges: adjustments, learning and accepting each other's flaws, that needed to be overcome. Oh and how they have prevailed!  Each obstacles that Ms. Kat Martin created here will make your heart ache.  Yikes!  I don't want to ruin it for other's who haven't read this book yet so I will hold myself back from mentioning a scene or two.  You'll have to read it to find out.  It will be more of a heart squeezer if you read it unprepared just as I have been.  You will feel the pain and the relief as u read through it.  Of course, like every other books, there's also some external conflicts such as villains, traitors, malady's and etc... but Ms. Martin uniquely compacted this novel more of internal clash that makes you thoroughly convinve of the character's love for each other. I love Caryn's spunk and innocence.  The way she speaks her mind, her biting words when she is hurt... awww!  Ral is just as great.  He is strong yet gentle.  He is firm yet forgiving.  In the end, this book will make your heart soar with so much love for both Ral and Caryn.  <br />The secondary character's are as well formed and develop as the hero/heroine.  I wish Ms. Martin will create a book for the mysterious Sir Gareth.  Sequel for this novel is definitely A MUST. <br />Do yourself a big favor and read BOLD ANGEL... I'll just hope you'll enjoy your day with a soaring heart just as I have :-)	2001-06-13
US	48819053	R2WNUSF0DG5V20	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Sizzling and Compelling	This is my first book of Cherry Adair and surely not the last.  I am more into Historical Romance Novels, however, I give few &quot;contemporary romance books&quot; a try too especially if the rating is a high one.  I am glad I gave this book a try as it was most definitely a worthy read.  I agree with Susan Anderson, author of BABY DON'T GO, when she said that this book is &quot; A Sexy, Snappy Roller-Coaster Ride&quot;.  It truly is!  <br />Marnie Wright is my first contemporary heroine favorite.  She is totally unpredictable.  She is full of surprises!  One minute she is stuck-shivering with fear then next thing u know, she is running towards the bullet saving the man she loves.  She can be forward one minute then shy the next.  She can give in yet she also might not...  Her personality goes with the flow of the moment, flow of the situation, flow of life.  She has consistencies only when she really wants something bad.  She can be very persistant (and annoyingly cute) when she wants to be.  I love the way she speaks her mind, the way she tease and twist Jake's words to trap (more like confuse him).  She got the spunk and the WIT.  I enjoyed her character immensely.  Jake Dolan is a hard and a VERY cautious man. Betrayals in the past contributed to his emptiness.  His childhood wasn't a happy one.  He didn't have family to love him in contrast to Marnie's overloving surrounding. He believes he doesn't have a heart and people said so too. But Marnie believes otherwise.  Marnie brings out the best of him even in such a short span of time... and in that, I was convince that Jake truly needs Marnie --- he needs her bright outlook in life.  He needs her love and her family to belong... Their love story was a sizzling and a heart warming one.  <br />Now, the action twist of this book is definitely the one thing I didn't expect to be engrossly involved in.  I am not big on &quot;ACTION&quot;.  But the way Cherry Adair plots it and her words that described everything simply pulled me in.  I was too involved that I felt my heart stopped every now and then.  No dull moments here.  Readers will have to read this book in one seating.  <br />I believe Cherry Adair is a talented writer.  I will read more of her books especially the upcoming HIDE AND SEEK, which is a story of Kyle Wright, brother of Marnie.  Hope it will contain updates of Marnie and Jake, as well as lots of heart stopping surprises and sizzling romances just like this one.  I also would love to read Michael's story, he is one of my favorite secondary character in this book. He was also tough, hard and manly... or better yet, Ms. Adair, why not write a book for each of the Wright Brothers.  <br />READ &quot;KISS AND TELL&quot; and BE GLUED.	2001-06-11
US	48819053	RAQ6YC6KGPLPV	0312972814	471579778	Silk And Steel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Thoroughly Entertaining...	SILK &amp; STEEL is the sequel of one of my favorite historical romance book NOTHING BUT VELVET.  Lucien Montaine, Marquess of Litchfield was a savory &amp; an interesting secondary character in NOTHING BUT VELVET. He was Jason's best friend who supported and helped Jason till the end.  Aside from his handsome and manly looks, his faith, loyalty, generosity &amp; friendship to Jason drawed me to him.  I was happy to learn that he has a book of his own.  However, upon checking the reviews of this book here...(on the website) and after hearing couple of my friends mentioning this book as &quot;unworthy&quot;, I braced myself for a wee bit of disappointment.  The book was overall a 4 star rating here but base on couple of reviewers plus my friends, this book wasn't suppose to be an entertaining one.  Since I would like to read updates of Jason and Velvet and I really, really like Lucien, I thought I'd give this book a shot regardless of the neg. comments.   As the book progress, I was totally charmed and couldn't possibly believe why some would find this book an unworthy read.   When the book ended, I was glad I wasn't swayed off by the negative reviews.   People do have different requirements and expectations of the books they read, therefore, I suggest you pick up this book and decide for yourself.  I will simply hope that you will enjoy it as much as I did.  This is my 3rd book of Kat Martin and she has yet to disappoint me.<br />Lucien's character was pretty much consistent as his first appearance in NOTHING BUT VELVET.  He was more detailed here though considering this is his book and you couldn't but love him more.  He is a Gentleman through and through... Kathryn Grayson wasn't as appealing to me in the beginning but the more I read, the more her character was developed then you get to see through her.  You couldn't help but feel sorry for her.  I like her spunk and her determination.  Despite what she's been through, she's still spirited.   I admire the way KatMartin insisted on making Kathryn a stubborn/bull headed woman.  Considering she owes Lucien more than you can imagine, Kathryn wasn't overly pleasing and too grateful to the extent of loosing her personality and becoming a doormat. Now that would have been a drag.  But it so happend that Kat Martin created Kathryn uniquely in this circumstances.  Kathryn knows herself and therefore insist on her identity. She knows what she wants, does what she believes is right.  She does what makes her feel good even if it means arguing with Lucien. I like that immensely.  <br />I have to admit that there is a couple of niggle in this book... To mention one:  When Kathryn ran away the second time, I was wondering how she could have succeeded in hiding for such a long time when she couldn't have done this the first time.  Well, I just tell myself that perhaps the second time, she was more prepared with small money, food and warm clothing.  She also had a sound plan while the first one was totally spur of the moment.  I really enjoyed this book so it does merit for a 5 stars despite this small niggle.  I don't read between the lines and over analyze a book that thoroughly entertained me.  I simply just seat back, love every minute I have with the book and ENJOY.   I really believe most people would love this book especially when you have read the prequel NOTHING BUT VELVET.  Aside from the twisters,  the appearance of Jason and Velvet was an added spice to this book.  Also, there is no EPILOGUE in this book so I hope Kat Martin is creating another book that relates to this one.  Perhaps a story of Michael or any of Jason and Lucien's children....	2001-06-07
US	48819053	R2H5757YDHCLTH	0449006727	172997404	The Innocent	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Tsk, tsk... i really liked the beginning!	This is my 2nd book of Bertrice Small. It was given to me by a friend.  The back description sounded interesting but base on the first one I read of her works, THE LOVE SLAVE, I didn't want to put up any expectations in reading this one.  I want to be open minded and to give her a shot.  I know a lot of people are Bertrice Small fans, perhaps I have yet to try her best work to be hooked on her.   But so far, after reading THE LOVE SLAVE &amp; THE INNOCENT, I am still not impress.  So sorry.  <br />The first few chapters of the book was sooo good.  It was interesting and a page turner.  But once the hero &amp; heroine got together, it got boring all of a sudden.  Detailed sex scenes was the only part that fires you up but the characters seems to be too perfect for me.  Ranulf is too understanding, too considerate and too loving. Boring!  Elf was an angel.  A saint.  I do enjoy heroines with pure heart but would u really still TEND someone who tried to rape you?  I mean at that same instant?  C'mon!  I would run for my life and outta there!  I won't even consider tending the wound of the person who tried to steal my virtue.  Well, that's just me.   I was not too thrilled when I found out that the heroine was only 14 years old while the hero was 30years old.  However, I decided to overlook that matter.  I read Julie Garwood's SAVING GRACE and the heroine was 16 yrs and the hero was 30 years old too but I liked that book so I thought I shouldn't be turned off just cuz of this small matter.  Despite this small niggle, I went ahead and continue with the book hoping I'll pick up the interest once more...  Sad to say, the more I read, the more i question Bertrice Small's ability.  Sorry.  She tend to mention something then forgets about it as if it never occured.  For instance, what happend to Saer De Bude?  He existed as a villain in the beginning then just like that he disappeared?  I thought he would come back and finish what he started but nope, he just poofed out.  B.S. also mentioned Isa, Elf's best friend in the convent, who happens to be Ranulf relative.  SO?  what happend?  Elf doesn't even know Isa is Ranulf relative and if so, what is the purpose of this talk?  I thought Isa would be involved in this book, perhaps show support or be in Ashlin for something but nope, she just poofed out too.  This might be a small matters to others but i like consistency in my books.<br />The only consolation of this book that touched me somehow is Merin Ap Owen.  He was one of the villain. He was hard and evil.  Yet, Elf pure goodness set him free from his evil ways.  I do believe that no matter how EVIL, there is good in every one.  It just needs someone else to bring it out.  GOODNESS and PURITY always prevails, I guess this is why I rated this book a 3 stars instead of 1.  I tell you, the first part of this book is soooooo good.  If only the hero and the heroine possess a little flaw, something that could make their relationship more challenging... a little banter, a little misunderstanding and so forth, perhaps it would continue to be an interesting read. Tsk, too bad.  I really really did like the beginning!	2001-06-06
US	48819053	R33OOYE8R64SJW	0312962436	994782512	Nothing But Velvet	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast, Enthralling &amp; Velvety	This is only my second book of Kat Martin and I can't wait to read more of her works. After I read RECKLESS, I  had high expectations on this book.  I am happy to say that my expectations was met with flying colors. <br />Ah, Jason Sinclair.  The poor thing!  However, tall, dark &amp; handsome... he is scarred in and out.  He's been through 8 years of darkness. 8 years of harboring betrayal &amp; bitter contempt.  8 years of pure survival.  Now that is sad!  Kat Martin truly have a way with her words.  She makes me ache for Jason. Her words will involved you thoroughly.  You will feel with Jason &amp; would want to fight for justice, for Jason's sake.  <br />I like the way Kat Martin portrayed Velvet Moran.  She was beautiful, intelligent &amp; hearty just like every heroine in most historical romance novel.  What I specially like about her is her honesty and determination.  She doesn't toy with words.  She speaks her mind and the hell with the consequences.  She spreads her wings without hesistations.  <br />I agree with one of the Amazon reviewer below that this books is fast pacing and full of surprises.  Like I said, I did have high expectations of this book, I was thoroughly content and amazed at the same time.  I love Jason and Velvet's stivy love story.  They will make your heart quench. Their character development was impressive.  The suspense twist was one a kind.  The more you read, the more you'll get hooked.  You wouldn't want to put this book down until the last page... then it'll still keep u thinking about it the rest of the day.  If this kind of story can affect me like that then the book is most definitely worth my time.  Pure entertaintment, i say... from front to end.  Can't wait to read Lucien's story, Jason's best friend, in SILK &amp; STEEL.	2001-06-05
US	48819053	R3CIKTJNVHJW39	055357762X	903656164	The Prisoner	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Heart Quenching	This is the first book of Karyn Monk's upcoming Trilogy...<br />Marquess of Redmon, Haydon Kent was convicted of murder and is to be hanged when his cellmate, a 14 year old boy, Jack, helped him escaped.  Fevered and beaten, he ended up in Genevieve McPhail's doorstep.  <br />Genevieve McPhail, an outcast from the society albeit a nobel birth, all because of her devotion and belief in helping wayward urchins, went to the prison house to save yet another 14 year old boy, Jack, from being beaten and being sent to the reformary school. However, in addition to the boy, she unexpectedly got herself a convicted murderer in her doorstep.  <br />Both Haydon and Genevieve lead a very different lifestyle.  Haydon, a rebellious, irresponsible &amp; self centered second son who busy his life with nothing but gambling, drinking &amp; womanizing.  Meanwhile, Genevieve lead a very tight &amp; unselfish lifestyle, caring for those who are in need and even sacrificing her needs for others.  I like the way Karyn Monk expresses their character development.  It'll make you see that Haydon &amp; Genevieve are fitting for each other.  They deserve each other however different they may be because they both bring out the passion and the goodness of each other.  He brings adventure and excitement to her dull, routine-like life while she brings enlightenment &amp; values back to his.  Their love story is warm and touchy.  <br />The mystery-action twist is excitingly a page-turner. It didn't overshadow their love story.  Also, Genevieve's children and their innocent conversations are heart warming.  They will make you smile.  Ollie, Eunice and Doreen also add a comical spice to the story.  These secondary characters will truly melt your heart.  Jack's story is the next book of this trilogy and is coming out in late 2002.  He is one of my favorite character in this book and I am glad K.M is creating a book just for him.  He is truly an intriguing subject and I can't wait to read his story.  <br />This is my 4th book of Karyn Monk and she has yet to disappoint me.  Although I notice that she is not fond of &quot;EPILOGUES&quot; which I prefer in all my books, I still enjoy reading her works.  I guess this is her style, to leave readers wondering in the end...  However,I am glad that THE PRISONER is a Trilogy, that way I won't have to wonder what will become of Genevieve, Haydon &amp; the children in the future.  I can simply read updates of them in the next book.   Can't wait!	2001-06-02
US	48819053	R4X3VRLV1MZ7D	0451203585	754656703	The Dragon's Bride (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Bittersweet	After reading the back description of this book, I immediately liked it and bought it regardless of the unknown author to me.  I got even more excited when I read the 5 stars ratings here in Amazon.  The housekeeper vs a Gentleman initial plot intrigue me, not to mention their childhood friendship and their romance.  That was enough to encourage me to start reading.  The first part and the middle part of the book was luring, sharp and fast moving.  I liked Susan, she is more human than a fantasy book heroine.  She makes mistakes, she makes wrong choices but accepts her faults and LEARNS from it.  I enjoyed reading the detailed thoughts of Susan &amp; Con.  Ms. Jo Beverly picks her words very well.  My heart tightens in reading Con's resentment and Susan's regrets.  Con's sharp remarks and hurtful rebukes makes me ache for Susan just as much as for Con.  Their Romance and love for each other is simply bittersweet. They both try hard to forget the past and to move on as friends.  They try to deny the feelings that is still burning deep inside... but it just can't be done.  It makes you ache for them &amp; with them.  The smuggling operation as well as the Wyvern's wierd description was an excellent spice to the story... However, towards the end of the book, I am sad to say that the story drags on and then ends abruptly.  I expected more towards the end.  I expected more action twist.  I think Gifford gave up too easily.  I also wanted to read more hearty situations where Susan can prove herself to Con.  I wanted to read more circumstances for Con to be able to rebuilt his trust back towards Susan. There is no question about their love for each other but Con and Susan are also often times avoiding each other that I was unconvince towards the end.  I would have love to read more of them together.  Togetherness to improve their relationship... to rebuilt... to develop a newer, stronger bond.  That would have been a good way to erase any doubts and forget the hurtful past.  This book also contains a lot of secondary characters, all are interesting but I think I will appreciate the secondary characters much better if I have read Jo Beverley's previous books that is in the ROGUE &amp; the GEORGE SERIES.<br />The Rogue Series goes: AN ARRANGE MARRIAGE.....AN UNWILLING BRIDE.....CHRISTMAS ANGEL......FORBIDDEN.....DANGEROUS JOY.<br />The George Series goes: THE DEMON'S MISTRESS (Novella:In Praises for Younger Men).....THE DRAGON'S BRIDE.....DEVIL's HEIRESS (Aug., 2001).  Hope that helps!<br />This is my first book of Ms. Jo Beverly and I can't say I am very impressed by her work but then I am not thoroughly disappointed either.  Perhaps I will give her another try by reading the next book of this GEORGE series, THE DEVIL's HEIRESS. It would be nice to read updates of Susan and Con anyway.  Despite my &quot;unconvinced&quot; complaint, I still rated this book a 4 stars because it was afterall an entertaining read.	2001-05-30
US	48819053	R2ZOFBVWH9O82T	0553577603	608249327	The Witch and the Warrior	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Bewitching	This is my second book of Karyn Monks and compared to ONCE A WARRIOR, this book is equally fascinating.  I was actually hoping this is a sequel to ONCE A WARRIOR but alas, it's a whole different story.  A unique and enthralling one indeed.  When I figured this book wasn't in any relation to the hero/heroine of O.A.W., I thought I'd be a bit disappointed.  I am happy to be mistaken.  This book has a spunk of it's own.  From the beginning to the end, I was bewitched.  I couldn't stop reading for fear of missing the best part.  Each page, I was waiting for the story to go just a bit bland so I can stop and go to sleep... to my amazement, I finish the book at 4:30 in the morning.  It was also worth being a zombie at work by 7am :-)<br />Mad Alex and Gwendolyn both have been through deep sadness in their lives so when the time came for both to help each other forget pain and feel love instead, it was truly a heart warming ride.  I specially like Gwendolyn.  Her spirit remains intact even after all the people's hatred and fear towards her.   Yes, she became cool and resigned to people's insults yet her heart never stop longing.  She's innocent &amp; her heart's pure... She is truly what Mad Alex need, not only to save his son but to save his soul as well.  <br />Lachlan, Reginald and Owen:  The three council elders of the McDunn Clan was an added spice to this book.  They are ones of my favorite in the book. They are soooo funny!  Their banters, dialogues and ways of adjusting to Gwendolyn was hearty as well as humorous.  This book is blended nicely.  Plenty of lovely romances, A bit of exciting action twist, Heart quenching situations and lots of humorous occurances.  <br />My small complaint about this book is once again, just like K.M's other book ONCE A WARRIOR, this one also didn't have an epilogue.  I guess that's just her style.  But it would have been nice to read about them in the future, to know if they'll have children of their own, a daughter perhaps? will they be needing the mystical gem for their children? and what about David? How would he fare in the future and so forth.  Perhaps there will be a sequel?  Oh well, despite that teeny weeny complaint, I still rated this book a 5 stars because it was truly a bewitching read. I am now in the process of reading THE ROSE AND THE WARRIOR.  I hope Karyn Monk would continue to amaze me with her talent just like she did in the two books I've read of hers.	2001-05-21
US	48819053	RKTPEP84EEZA	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enchanting	This is my second book of Teresa Medeiros and compare to CHARMING THE PRINCE, this book is not exactly up to par.  The first part of the book as well as the middle part was thoroughly exciting.  The Lord Dragon's scheme as well as his fascination to the captive Gwendolyn was intriguing.  Their developement to each other was filled with charm, humor and love.  The people of Ballybliss and their superstitions mixed with ignorance contributed a comical spice to the story.  The identity of the traitor was also quite unexpected to me.  It was truly a page turner until the last part of the book... The ending was a bit too rusty, in my opinion.  It was not as fulfilling.  Not powerful to leave a mark.  It was kindda rushed. I think it can be a bit more detailed or perhaps the way Bernard decided to come home could have been situated differently other than Gwendolyn going after him.  <br />I rated this book a 4 stars (4 1/2 if I could) despite my complaint about the &quot;ending&quot; because overall, this book was enchanting &amp; entertaining nonetheless.	2001-05-21
US	48819053	R37U870SGVR5IV	0553574221	158833316	Once a Warrior	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Different &amp; surprisingly WONDERFUL	When my sister lent me this book,  I was a bit hesistant in reading it cuz the author was unknown to me.  I also didn't think I would enjoy reading a love story with a drunken, shattered hero but as soon as I finished the Prologue, I got hooked.  Unless I buy a copy for myself, I don't think I'll return this book to my sister just yet.  <br />Ariella and Malcolm's love story was truly unique.  They're both full of mistrust &amp; sadness in the beginning then after mending each other's heart and spirit, love flows freely.   The way Arielle denies her feelings for Malcolm was sad &amp; a bit frustrating but then again, this is what makes this story different.  She wanted a perfect warrior not only for herself but also for her people. Malcolm was a disappointment to her, not only physically but she also believed his heart was not as pure as she once heard it to be.  So despite what her heart says, she tries so hard to let her mind rule.  She convince herself that Malcolm is not the &quot;one&quot;.  Malcolm, however tall &amp; handsome,  was a scarred hero.  He walked with a limp and have back pains.  He made a mistake once and was cast out by his own clan.  He was depressed, had no more pride and self worth.  He was pitiful until she offered him gold to help her clan.  In the beginning, it was all because of the gold until Malcolm slowly found his pride back while training her people.  He felt respect, he found his self worth and even felt he belonged somewhere.   He also found love once more... Malcolm is more human than any other heroes I've read in any book. He wasn't the perfect hero I normally would prefer... but this book proved to be just as satisfying and perhaps even more intriguing, all because of Malcolm's realistic traits. Malcolm's &quot;transformation&quot; and Ariella's &quot;realization&quot; was the most touching part of this book.  I have to say that their love making was the best scene I've read in such a long time.  It was full of passion, full oflove.  Karyn Monk truly picked the most wonderful words.  The emotional ways of describing their love making was heart quenching.  My heart skips a bit just remembering it.   I don't want to sound exaggerating but you will agree once you read this book that Malcolm and Ariella's love making scene was truly beautiful.  I love this book.  <br />My small complaint is this book didn't have an epilogue.  It would have been nice to read about them in the future, to know if they'll have children, how many? and so forth.  Perhaps there will be a sequel?  Oh well, despite that teeny weeny complaint, I still rated this book a 5 stars because it was truly an amazing read.  This is my first book of Karyn Monk and I am more than please to be introduce to such a talented author.  I am now in the process of reading the The Witch &amp; the Warrior.   So far, it's just as fulfilling as this one.	2001-05-16
US	48819053	R3I9TZ6UPA4UE4	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Mixed Reaction to RANSOM	I read this book last year yet didn't write a &quot;review&quot; for it right away.  I didn't know exactly what to rate it then.  I read it the second time today and finally realized that I have mixed opinions about this book.  One minute, I am loving each page... then next minute, I am somehow full of uncontentment.  I don't want to say that I am totally disappointed in this book because I am not.  It's just that there are many things I preferred would have turned out differently.  Like for instance, I strongly feel that Ramsey Sinclair and Bridgett deserve their own book.  Their love story was too endearing to be hastily combined with Brodicks and Gillian. In THE SECRET (prequel of this book), Ramsey was described as the most handsome of the three Laird friends (Iain, Brodick &amp; Ramsey).  He was always composed, nonchalant &amp; roguish.  Therefore, he deserves to have a longer story line.  His love story would have truly been a fascinating read.  I was also disappointed in how Julie Garwood twisted Christen's character in the end.  It was too sad for me to know that after all the childhood closeness of Gillian and Christen, they had to go on seperate ways in the end.  I don't want to ruin it for others but I simply must mention this part so that readers will be prepared.  Perhaps I expected a warm reunion that is why I was devastated by Christen's decision.  It was dreadfully annoying considering all the search and all the hard works Gillian put in just to find her... It was rather selfish of Christen to only think of her own self.  Not even asking about her sister's sacrifices.  Gillian went through a lot more than her!  No matter how scared I would be to be in Christen's situation, I truly would still prefer to have a relationship with my sister.  I would be happy to see her - I wouldn't act the way Christen did.  I also found it a bit unbelievable that Christen would rather not have anything to do with Gillian considering their closeness once before.  Whathurt would it do for Julie Garwood to simply soften this part up and made it a warm reunion between sisters?  I mean, There were so many protectors involved in this book!  What is one more Lady to protect, huh?  Oh well, that's just a small niggle in my part.  Others might not have a problem with this.  <br />As for Gillian and Brodick, their love story was unique and electrifying.  I don't have any problems with their romance and developement.  I enjoyed their banters!  I enjoyed their adjustment to each other (esp. Gillian's adjustment to the Highlands and to Brodick's clan who live like a Spartan-now that was a riot!).  I love the Buchanan clan.  They are all fierce, possessive, protective and BEARY lot.  Gillian is a strong &amp; courageous Lady.  Truly what Brodick deserves.  <br />Since I love the prequel of this book, The SECRET, I enjoyed reading updates of Judith and Iain.  I love the part wherein their son was involved in the plot.  It was unexpected and the conclusion was heart warming.  The action/mystery twist of this book was also exciting.  It didn't overshadow the romances involved but added a tasty spice to it all.  Overall, RANSOM was an interesting &amp; worthy read despite some of my small complaints above.  However, compared to THE SECRET, this one couldn't past as one of &quot;Julie Garwood's Best&quot;.	2001-05-16
US	48819053	R2XBL4U4HRGKMU	0312979444	539399007	Heartless	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Heart FULL of love &amp; Values	This is my first of Kat Martin and certainly not the last.  I am happy my sister introduced me to her.  Because of the interesting back description, I didn't hesistate in reading this one even if I haven't heard of Kat Martin before.  I was right, the book was one a kind.  In the first chapter however, I thought I wouldn't like Ariel Summers.  I thought she was too ambitious and too high flown but as the story progress, I ended up admiring her.  I don't think I would have the courage to make such bargain.  Justin was a bit too cold and too hard for me in the beginning too.  I actually feared him especially after reading the part wherein his father called him to his deathbed.  But then slowly, you'll get to know him.  He appears cold yet inside, there is something burning waiting to set free.  He is actually scared and insecure.  Ariel helped loosen him up and melted that ice by offering him her warm heart.  <br />I liked the way Kat Martin touched my heart through her words &amp; specially the ways statements was being said.  Everything seems to be said &amp; done at the right time and at the right moment.  The misunderstanding &amp; twist of this book is truly heart quenching.  This is probably the only book that really made me cry for such a long time.  I mean, I have been teary eyed in some books but this one actually made me sob.  I cried for Ariel.  I felt for her more probably because of her past, her being a farmer's daughter who worked hard to be a Lady.  I don't want to ruin it for others so I'll just suggest you read the book and watch out for the chapter 15 to 18.  The page 201 is my favorite.  This part went to show that a person can be worth more IF he/she chooses to be.  No amount of money or title or even high powered education can belittle someone who value oneself.  Selfpride and Selfworth cannot be taught, it comes from within.  Absolutely wonderful.  This book is certainly not heartless but full of it and more.  A MUST READ!	2001-05-10
US	48819053	R2VMZ8K7NV83AV	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	5	62	72	N	N	A sequel needed!	My sister told me to read this book for the longest time.  The reason why I prolong reading this one is cuz I didn't like the synopsis in the back of the book. Call me old fashion but I prefer my heroine a virgin.  Since Johanna was once married, she didn't peaked my interest.  I also thought I was getting tired of Julie Garwood's style of similar characteristics in her novels but I was wrong.   Sure, this one does have a share of similar descriptions (such as heroine has freckles in nose, smells like rose and hero's a big, tall handsome warrior) just like on her other books, but i still love it :-)  It's been awhile since I read a Julie Garwood novel, I just realized how much I love her style.  The humor, the romance, the secondary characters that adds spice to the story &amp; of course, the unexpected twist.  What more can a reader want? Once again, this book trully satisfied me.  I was entertained more than I expected.  I should have read this one as soon as my sister told me to.<br />I read here in Amazon that some readers don't find Johanna an interesting heroine because of her timidity and weakness.  In my opinion, this is what made her different and more appealing.  Yes, she WAS timid and I can't say I blame her considering her past marriage.  I would find the story too far fetch if Johanna would right away snapped out of her timidity and fear after what had happend to her once before. She lived in fear, she walked on eggshells for far too long to simply be bold &amp; audacious.  The readers will also consider that Johanna was in a different environment, married (2nd time) to a stranger who's a big handsome brute,  wouldn't u be timid and scared?  It took time for her to trust McBain, it took time for her to come out of her shell.  Deep down,she is actually fiery, spirited, spunky &amp; a courageous woman.  She just needs some encouragement, stability and security to let that flow out.  She was married too young the first time (and what a mess that was) and therefore, didn't really know herself until McBain taught her how to find her true identity.  In short, I think Johanna's character developed perfectly and realistically.  As for their age difference, well, i do agree it's somewhat a big gap but I overlook this flaw merely because they fit in together.  <br />I agree with quite a few reviewers comments here however, that this book needs a sequel.	2001-05-10
US	48819053	RZEK79WU28US	0553582534	368339480	Temporary Mistress (St. John-Duras)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Sour	This is my second book of Susan Johnson and compared to SINFUL, this book pales and is somewhat a disappointment. The only consolation of this book is that I read it through the end, that is why I rated it a 2 stars instead of 1.  The beginning of the book was so interesting... then it faded to dull. The reason for Isabella to ruin her credibility (by being a mistress) is to escape her selfish &amp; evil minded family.  That reason seemed too outrageous.  I am sure there are other ways to escape them aside from being a mistress. She is a rich heiress afterall.   If she was impoverished, then that reason would have sounded believable.  She hired a body guard towards the middle of the book, why didn't she just do this in the begninning instead of becoming a mistress?  Anyhow, I still continued reading and pretty much overlook that part.  Then, the book mentioned consequences of her choice...As a mistress, she will be cast out by the society yet it never happened to Isabelle. She was still accepted and even became the Belle of the Ball on her coming out debut. Imagine, she also had a coming out debut afterall that trouble???  Now this is far fetch.  No matter how beautiful and how rich of a heiress you are, being a mistress and was in fact living in a brothel for a while should dampened her character.  Battling these consequences would also have been an interesting read.  But no consequences was acted upon.  Seems like Isabella's one week tryst with Dermott was simply forgotten.  Another complaint is the way Molly Crocker supposedly wanted to help Isabella.  With her said connection, she could have helped her in a different way than suggest being a mistress.  Dermott was also somewhat a disappointment to me.  As a gentleman, he shouldn't have taken advantage of Isabella's circumstances.  He knew about her situation to begin with but only in the latter part did he go to Isabella's family threatening them if they harm her.  Shouldn't he have done this in the beginning and not taken advantage of her?  I know he mentioned how much he wanted her (sexually) but still, Isabella was a well bred, well educated woman and deserve respect.  If they developed their relationship differently (aside from sex, sex, sex), they would have been a lovely pair.  Last complaint is Isabella's transformation from an innocent virgin to a hotty seductress in bed.  Supposedly she had a week's training. Training with no actual performance?  Oh C'mon! You have to read the book to know what I mean.  It's just too much for me to believe.  I am always open minded with books but Susan Johnson didn't make it sound convincing this time.  Their sex scenes, dialogue were too obscene and useless.  It didn't serve as a delectable spice but soured the book even more.	2001-05-08
US	48819053	R1QGH0XVGMBENT	0446306185	436436025	Dark Torment	Books	4	40	40	N	Y	Heady &amp; Luscious	The book description of Australian setting, farms and convicts didn't really appeal to me at first. Inasmuch as I have enjoyed Karen Robards books in the past, this one initially didn't peak my interest. I prefer historical romances in England/Scotland settings (only few American Settings).  I have this book in my possession since Dec. 2000 only because I was holding it for my sister.  I really didn't have any intention of reading it.  To my dismay, I ran out of reading materials on my day off :-(   Since I didn't feel like rereading my old novels, I forced myself to start this one.  I convinced myself that this book couldn't be as bad considering I like Karen Robards immensely.  First few chapter of this book is somewhat slow and wordy.  Too much detailing... but as soon as the story picks up and as soon as the heroine (Sarah) and the hero (Dominic) developed their relationship with each other, the story becomes exhilarating.  Then, you definitely would want to finish reading it in one sitting.<br />Dominic is proud, handsome and rebellious.  He is mysteriously delectable.  The more you read and learn about him, the more you'll get hooked!  He is seductive and manly.  Dominic's childhood and his life before he arrived in Australia was an interesting one.   Meanwhile, the plain &amp; simple looking, Sara, is a typical Mistress - Uppity, bossy and feisty...but she's fair and kind hearted too.  I understand her confusions and her difficulty in accepting her feelings for Dominic, he was a convict and was considered beneath her station afterall.  The consequences would be dire and scandalous.  She wasn't prepared to acknowledge it.  She always treat convicts and servants with respect.  She is always patient &amp; level headed except to one person, Dominic.  He just seems to know the right button to push to infuriate her.  I like the way Dominic teases her.  I like the way he seduces her, to help her lossen up and feel the passion.  Karen Robards created a well developedcharacters in this book (esp. the H/H) --&gt; They are both very different in so many ways yet perfect for each other.  The ending of this book is wonderful.  <br />Aside from the H/H love story, the action twist is very stirring.  This book is well blended-passionate romances, humor, action thrills, heart warming situations, unexpected twist, luscious detailed sex scenes, and even a wholesome father-daughter story.  It sure is worth my time!  My only regret is that I should have read it sooner.	2001-05-08
US	48819053	R35RXOKRITY7QH	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	5th book of the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel<br />I was really looking forward in reading Derek's story that I took this book with me in a long flight from L.A to Hong Kong.  To my dismay, this book made me fall asleep more than I can count.  The beginning was quite interesting, then things started to fall apart.... WHY? Here's why: I have notice that all books in this Malory series (except for the first one) contains lots of repetitive informations.  There were times I had to skip parts wherein a Malory or two will start discussing the story or happenings of the previous books, sorta like a short summarization for those who have not read it.  For readers like me who have read the series in sequence, It's useless info. and i won't lose anything to skip it... At first, this style of writing didn't seem to bother me but when I got to the third book of the series, the summarization of the first two books was getting to me.  Imagine my restlessness when i was reading the 4th and the 5th book (which unfortunately happened to be Derek's story)!  I skipped more parts in this book cuz I didn't need to read the summary of the 4 previous books which i have already read.  All this useless (in my opinion) summarizations, overshadowed Derek and Kelsey's story.  Ms. Lindsey should have concentrated on detailing their characters (esp. Kelsey) and building up their relationship with each other.  This is the main reason why I rated this book quite low, there was sooo many summarizations of the previous books!   No doubt, It was great to read UPDATES of the Malory characters in the previous books, i liked that part but i think there is no need to summarize each couple's story.  <br />Derek and Kelsey's love story have some potentials... Their story was quite sad compared to the other Malory's yet I wasn't convince and drawn to them like I should.  I really tried to like this book.  In fact, I kept picking it up after putting it down for an hour or two... But even after skipping some parts, it still doesn't peak my interest.  Derek's strong profile seemed to fade and Kelsey, being pictured as a strong level headed girl, also seemed weak and often times insecure &amp; confuse.  Perhaps it is the situation and the contradictory occurances that made this book so unconvincing or perhaps lack of detailing and building up... or perhaps it's simply the too many summarizations of the previous books that turned me off from this book.  It's just too bad cuz Derek was one of my favorite Malory too.  Oh well, there is many people who rated this book a 4 and 5 stars so perhaps you might like it more than I have.  So pick it up and decide for yourself.  PLUS, this book if part of the Malory series.  If u started the series, you'll have to read this one too.	2001-05-07
US	48819053	R2Q7JTS0NU1VDQ	0380804387	752977287	The Present (Malory Novels (Paperback))	Books	4	7	7	N	N	6th book in the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel <br />I was hesistant in reading this one because the previous book, Say You Love Me (5th novel), was not to my liking... However, since this is the last book (so far) in the series and since I have already bought the book, I made myself read it with open mind.   I am happy to say this book was indeed worth my time.  The updates of every MALORY was a joy.........Note: I have notice that all books in this Malory series (except for the first one) contains lots of repetitive informations.  There were times I had to skip parts wherein a Malory or two will start discussing the story or happenings of the previous books, sorta like a short summarization for those who have not read it.  For readers like me who have read the series in sequence, It's kindda useless info. and i won't lose anything to skip it... At first, this style of writing didn't seem to bother me but when I got to the third book of the series, the summarization of the first two books was getting to me.  Imagine my restlessness when i was reading the 4th and the 5th book!  I skipped more parts then cuz I didn't need to read the summary of the 3-4 previous books which i have already read.   Whew!  I say it would have been better for Ms. J.L. to leave readers some thrill to pick up each book and read each story for themselves.  This 6th novel also had shares of summarizations but it wasn't as bad as the 4th (The Magic of You) and 5th book.  <br />Christopher and Anna's (Malory Grandparents) story was touchy &amp; interesting.  It is also different from the usual Malory story considering the time plot and the social structure of Anna. The add on story of Jason &amp; Molly was also quite nice.  Though I enjoyed Cristoff and Anna's love story more. There's were far more amusing and endearing.  The whole book was a good read.  Heart warming!It'll make you realize how important family truly is.  No matter what each member's point of views, faults &amp; even scandals, family sticking together can surely make a difference.  A family together will survive almost any difficulties.  Again, I specially liked every updates of the Malory!  ...and I can't wait to read Jeremy's Story and perhaps the Anderson brother's as well.	2001-05-07
US	48819053	R482YR8MY86EC	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	4th book in the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel<br />Even in the first book of the series, Love Only Once,  Amy was described as a dreamer, aggressive and strong willed.  She speaks her mind and shows her heart.  So if you like woman who are the seducer in the book then this one is for you.  As for me, I normally prefer the man being the seducer while the woman are innocent and naive, however, in this circumstances, I wasn't offended by the way Amy reached out to Warren.  Ms. J.L. wrote it well and it wasn't disgusting or degrading to woman.  Warren had a dark past that made him hard and distant to love so it is understandable that Amy should be the one to reach out to his hard heart and try to make it soft again.  The Malory family conflicts, bickering &amp; arguements is once again an add on spice to the book.<br />I have notice that all books in this Malory series (except for the first one) contains lots of repetitive informations.  There were times I had to skip parts wherein a Malory or two will start discussing the story or happenings of the previous books, sorta like a short summarization for those who have not read it.  For readers like me who have read the series in sequence, It's kindda useless info. and i won't lose anything to skip it... At first, this style of writing didn't seem to bother me but when I got to the third book of the series, the summarization of the first two books was getting to me.  Imagine my restlessness when i was reading the 4th and the 5th book!  I skipped more parts then cuz I didn't need to read the summary of the 3-4 previous books which i already know about.   Whew!  I say it would have been better for Ms. J.L. to leave readers some thrill to pick up each book and read each story for themselves.	2001-04-30
US	48819053	R1Z48UDGO4TLR9	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	5	106	110	N	N	1st book of the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel<br />Because this is the first book of the series, naturally, it contains a lot of introductory descripstions of everyone in the Malory family especially those who will be the primary heroes on the next novel. I'd like to add that this add ons didn't overshadow the love story of Regina &amp; Nick. In fact, the additional spice made this book even more intriguing. I read this book in one sitting. Every character that J. L created and described peaked my interest esp. Regina's uncles James &amp; Anthony. <br />I decided to finish reading the whole series before i write the reviews so i can compare it all. This book and The gentle Rogue is my favorite of all 6 in the series. Regina and Nick's love story is warm and touchy. Regina is definitely my favorite of all Malory's. She is not only soft hearted but smart, strong willed, care free &amp; fun. Nicholas Eden is mysterious, a total RAKE yet Gentle &amp; loving deep down. There are times, Nick's choices annoys me no matter what his hidden reasons or dark past was.... but this is also what makes this book so enthralling. Different emotions all out in one. A great introduction to the Malory Series.	2001-04-30
US	48819053	R25UMK5G38MYLZ	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	91	100	N	N	3rd book in the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel<br />I decided to finish reading the whole series before i write the reviews so i can compare it all. Now this book (and Love Only Once) is my favorite in the Malory series.  James have always intrigued me eversince I read about him in Love Only Once.  He was a handsome care-free rebel &amp; a pirate gentleman!  In the 2nd book, Tender Rebel, my intrigued even heightened when he brought home a son, Jeremy, and when James got charmed by a girl pretending to be a lad who he met at a seaside bar.  Once again, I wasn't disppointed when I read his story.  James and Georgina's love story was not only sweet &amp; charming, it was most definitely the most amusing of all the Malory book series.  The seatrip, the schemes &amp; pretentious, the meeting of Georgina's brother's was utterly hilarious.  James surely got a dose of his own medicine.  What a riot!  You will love James more in this book... and you too will be charmed by Georgina.  They are both a lovely pair.  <br />Note: I have notice that all books in this Malory series (except for the first one) contains lots of repetitive informations.  There were times I had to skip parts wherein a Malory or two will start discussing the story or happenings of the previous books, sorta like a short summarization for those who have not read it.  For readers like me who have read the series in sequence, It's kindda useless info. and i won't lose anything to skip it... At first, this style of writing didn't seem to bother me but when I got to the third book of the series, the summarization of the first two books was getting to me (but i still rated this book a 5 stars bec. I highly enjoyed it despite me skipping some parts i already know about).  Imagine my restlessness when i was reading the 4th and the 5th book!  I skipped more parts then cuz I didn't need to read the summary of the 3-4 previous books which i have already read.   Whew!  I say it would have been better for Ms. J.L. to leave readers some thrill to pick up each book and read each story for themselves.	2001-04-30
US	48819053	R2HG599XMWAEEN	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	4	29	33	N	N	2nd book of the Malory Series	First off, here is the series in sequence: 1. Love Only Once 2. Tender Rebel 3. Gentle Rogue 4. The Magic of You 5. Say You Love Me 6. The Present: The Malory Holiday Novel<br />Because Anthony (and James) are my two favorite uncles in LOVE ONLY ONCE, I was so excited to read this 2nd book of the series.  I couldn't wait to find out who would be the lucky lady to sweep Anthony off his feet and what his story would be, I was not disappointed.  The story line, twist and secondary characters truly made a big effect.  The usual spice of the Malory Family especially the updates of Regina and Nicholas thoroughly entertained me.  The reason why I didn't rate this book a 5 stars was cuz in my opinion, Anthony fell in love too quickly.  It's just a teeny weeny unsatisfaction... His actions were abrupt and uncool considering he is London's biggest rake. I guess I expected more of him, i just wasn't convince... its was all too soon for me.   Roslynn wasn't a bad heroine, she was level headed, kind hearted and witty but perhaps my mistake was that i compare her to Regina who is my favorite of all Malory.  I decided to finish reading the whole series before i write the reviews so i can compare it all.  Love Only Once &amp; The gentle Rogue is my favorite of all 6 in the series.  However, this book is still a great read.  Despite that small niggel mentioned above, I still recommend this book to anyone especially those who started reading the Malory series.	2001-04-30
US	48819053	RIVGJXXKJDJTQ	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Be Awed	This is my first book of Teresa Medeiros.  I stumbled across it in one of our local bookstores.  The castled cover and the intriguing book description peaked my interest, however, I didn't buy it that instant.  T.M. is unknown to me therefore I was a bit skeptical.  Being an Amazon book reviewer myself, I rely on other reviewers to help me decide in picking a book to read.  So naturally, I checked out the reviews and despite a few negative comments, I decided to go back the next day, bought the book with crossed fingers &amp; hoped I won't regret it.   I am happy to say that it was all worth the risk.  Now, i can't wait to read more of her books.<br />Once again, The Amazon Editorial Reviews and the book description itself (as well as the reader reviewers) pretty much covered the details of this story.  I'd just like to add that this book is definitely full of love and humor...  I know there were couple of people here who complained that there was too much children stories and too little romance in this book.  I don't agree with the lack of romance.  In fact, I think it's all realistic and well balanced considering the plot and the circumstances.   Perhaps there is too many children stories - oh but how I enjoyed it all.    I also know that Bannor's (the hero) participation in his children's life is somehow a bit inaccurate considering the time plot.  I know that in those medieval times, children are cared by wet nurses and is somewhat ignored until they are in their youths.  However, I considered the book description.   In the first place, those unruly children are initially the main concern... they were mentioned as the main reason for finding a bride and/or a mother for them so it won't be practical to just fade them away.  It is significant for them to be part of this book, not just mentioned passingly...  Since they are Bannor's concern, naturally, it is also appropriate for us to read Willow's (the heroine) involvement &amp; relationship towards them.  I don'tthink I'd enjoy this book as much if they weren't as involved.  Teresa Medeiros also created each child with their own identity, each with character and role who contributed not only a lot of humor but spunk as well.  I don't think the children stories overshadowed Bannor &amp; Willows romance at all, instead, I believed they have actually added warmth and special meaning to their relationship.  The children and their antics are the spices to this delectable couple.  Bannor &amp; Willow, both different yet perfect for each other.  I admire both their patience (to the children &amp; even to each other).  <br />NOTE: IF you don't like children, then this book is probably not for you.<br />Love is everywhere in this book, from the children to the H/H and even to the secondary characters. To name a few of my favorite: Hollis (Banner's Steward), Bea (Willow's younger stepsis), Fiona (nursemaid) and even Netta ... have their short side stories that is linked to the H/H.  This book is thoroughly well designed.  Totally Unique.  I guarantee hours of entertainment while reading this book.  Sigh, cry, smirk, chuckle and LAUGH OUT LOUD or simple BE AWED.	2001-04-20
US	48819053	R2KX9XWAYNH5PJ	0449004856	68457568	The Passion (Notorious)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Scrumptious	THE PASSION:  Story of Nicholas Sabine &amp; Lady Aurora Demmings This book is the second book of Nicole Jordan's NOTORIOUS SERIES.   The first book is THE SEDUCTION, story of Damien's, an acquaintance of Nicholas Sabine.  The third book is originally named &quot;Enchantment&quot; but was later changed to &quot;DESIRE&quot; to make it sound sexier (I think its fitting too considering the first two titles of this series).   DESIRE is the story of Lucian, cousin of Nicholas Sabine in the 2nd book.  It is due out this coming November, 2001.  I am hoping that the third book will have updates of the couples from the 1st two books.  <br />Nicholas Sabine lived a life of a rebel.  He is a rich, handsome rake who enjoys risk &amp; lives recklessly/dangerously.  When he wants something, he goes for it without thinking of the consequences.  Meanwhile, Lady Aurora prefers peace, solitude, simplicity &amp; stability.   She can ignore her wants/needs (even her own happiness) to accomplish tranquility in her life yet she will fight for others who needed championing.  She distance herself from the world, from people to protect her heart.  With a tyrant father, she also longed for freedom.   It was hard for both the hero/heroine to realize what they felt for each other because Nicholas never knew, let alone felt love... while Aurora is determined to protect her heart from such as love.  I understand both the H/H especially the heroine.  Whenever she loved someone, she loses them and knowing the kind of life Nicholas lead, it is very realistic for her to take a step back away from Nicholas to shelter her heart.   The sweet part of this book is that no matter how much she tries to ignore and deny the feelings, it is there.  Getting stronger.  The more Nicholas pursues her, the more she finds herself drawn to him.   He saw her protective shell and means to break it, to set her free...  Despite Nicholas dangerous character, he was playful to Aurora.  Teasing her, charming her.  I likedthe way he pursued her.  I didn't think he became &quot;too soft&quot;.  In fact, I think this is what drawned me more to him.  He was a pirate, dangerous and a condemn man (to be hanged) but his mischievous grin and his gentleness towards Aurora awes me.  Nicholas means to have her but not in a forceful way.  She wants her to surrender herself to him freely. She just needed a little nudge...and a lot of PASSION.   In the end, Aurora tamed him and Nicholas set her free.  It's Magical!<br />The short appearance of Damien and Vanessa (The Seduction) was a bit disappointing yet practical given the fact that Sinclair and Nicholas weren't really good friends.  They were merely an acquaintance.   I honestly didn't think I'd like a very erotic romances in a novel.  The sex scenes in this book is somewhat explicit (just like in THE SEDUCTION) but the way Nicole Jordan detailed it out didn't sound disgusting or risque.  For me, it's sweet &amp; scrumptious :-)   After reading THE SEDUCTION, which I have enjoyed so much, I was a bit hesitant in starting this sequel because of the negative Amazon reviewers.  I was afraid I'd waste my time on this one but finally decided to give it a shot -- considering it is part of the series which I have started.  I am glad that the negative reviewers didn't totally sway me off from this book, otherwise, I would have missed out on one delicious adventure.  This book truly proves that everyone have different taste, preferences and opinions.  I suggest you read the negative reviews, balance it with the positive then give this book a shot like I did and decide for yourself. Who knows you might like it and enjoy it, just as I did.	2001-03-21
US	48819053	RZ8OB3FMK26FY	1582550670	321053435	Nursing 2001 Drug Handbook (Book with Mini CD-ROM for Windows and Macintosh)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A complete meds guide	IN addition to the ... book Info and other reveiwers, I'd like to say how thankful I am with this drug handbook.  I actually carry this one with me in my nursing pocket during duty, It's light and not bulky.  Pictures of meds in all colors and sizes, generic and brand names.  It even have varieties of forms/colors from different companies for the same medications.  Adverse reaction is also mentioned in this handbook. You have a question about a drug?  Open this handbook and get answers in a flash.  Surely a must for all nurses.	2001-03-19
US	48819053	R1JXK4JV61A1K5	3929025043	498882675	Bonellos Swatch Collectors Guide/No 15141 (English, French, German and Italian Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	more like a 4 1/2 stars...	This book contains pictures of all (or almost all) Swatches you can think of from 1983 to present.  It even have some rare ones as well.  This book is updated yearly.  I only buy one book every two years though so that there is more newer items.  Aside from pictures of the Swatch Watch itself, it also shows special packagings, number of limitations, prices in JP, DM,USD,SF and etc.  There is also references of Swatch Stores all over the world as well as ONLINE/INTERNET Swatch Contacts.  There is also a helpful tip on what the codes in the back of your Swatches or in the cases signifies (ex. gz 117).   The only set back of this book is the over priced marked or value of items.  That is why I took out 1/2 stars in the rating.  Anyway,  I normally take out at least 30 percent of the price value given in this book to make it the reasonable price on the market. I also canvass prices online or ask fellow collectors first then compare it to the book, it is more reasonable that way.   Although, hey, as a collector, I sure wouldn't mind an inflated value for my collection :-)  BUT, I prefer to buy low so I don't go by the book when I am buying Swatches :-)    then perhaps if I sell any of my collection, I'll sell it high then that's the time, I MIGHT go by the value given here in the BONELLO Guide.  haha... Kindda one tracked, huh?  Well, I am sure most Swatch Collectors knows that this book does indeed have an overpriced value for most items...  For newbies, Don't rely on the prices on this book, you might get burned and if you are a seller, no one might want to buy the swatch you're selling if you go by this books price.  <br />Overall, this book is loaded with colorful pictures, a complete guide for Swatch collectors.  <br />Good luck and Have fun Swatching :-)<br />~~~A~~~	2001-03-19
US	48819053	R15HONJJTRKS8B	0743410599	961224614	Scandalous (Banning Sisters Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Beginning to a Series...	Read the AMAZON synopsis and book description above for book summarization.<br />In addition to that:<br />This is the first book of Karen Robards BANNING SISTERS SERIES.  SCANDALOUS is Gabriella's story, the eldest sister.  The second book is IRRESISTIBLE, story of the second sister, Claire Banning (there is no exact date out for this book yet).  She was described as the most beautiful of the three sisters and most charming.  She was THE big boom during her coming out season.  So, I can't wait to see who she ended up falling in love with.  I am assuming that the third book would be about Elizabeth or Beth as she is called by her family. She is the youngest and the most mischievous, spunky and witty.  Now, that too would be a fun read.  No title or date out for that book yet.  <br />Gabriella is most certainly one of my many historical favorite heroines of all times.  Gabriella is the most practical and sufficient of the three sisters.  She has courage, intelligence and spunk.  Her character was fully developed and detailed that you just can't help but like her.  Admire her.  Karen Robards wrote about Gabby's inner self, her thoughts, her past, even her fears and dreams, that is why I was a bit disappointed in Nick's character development.  I didn't know much about him (only few facts and figures) even in the end when confessions were told.  I guess it is practical to described less of him considering his hidden or secret identity, however, I wish there was more of Nick's past, perhaps his fears and/or dreams, to make him more convincing or more real.  Nick is often times away for days and I don't know where or what he does other than a quick summary of him looking for Marcus' murderer.  I also prefer the hero and the heroine to spend more time together, developing their affection for each other.  Getting to know each other.  In this book, Karen Robards pretty much blended the suspense/mystery with romance which sadly to say, I couldn't help but want more (more romance, more of the H/H together). BUT Like I said,  I understand it is necessary for Karen Robards to distant Nick's character in order for the suspense and thrill to be absorbed by the reader, that is why I rate this book a 4 stars.  Perhaps in the 2nd book of this series, KR will make it up by adding a lot of updates of Nick &amp; Gabby.  <br />The initial plot of this book is actually very intriguing.  The mystery is exciting.  Some humor and a lot of detailed description of the Banning sisters.  I guess you can say that this book is a delightful beginning to the Banning Sisters Series.  Yes, I find this book somewhat slow in the beginning.  But as soon as the story picks up, you wouldn't want to put it down.  <br />I've always enjoy KR's book and this is not an exemption, I'm certainly looking forward to reading Claire and Beth's story as soon as it is out in the market.	2001-03-17
US	48819053	RLOVHNYVGGDJ0	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Steamy Sex with lots of ROMANCE	This is my first book of Nicole Jordan and gladly not the last.  I've seen her books here in Amazon and decided to try her out.   Luckily, I picked &amp; read THE SEDUCTION first as it is the 1st book of the Notorious Series.  I am now in the process of reading the 2nd book of the series, THE PASSION (Nicholas Sabine's story, an acquaintance of Damien Sinclair).  The third book is originally named &quot;Enchantment&quot; but was later changed to &quot;DESIRE&quot; to make it sound sexier (I think its fitting too considering the first two titles of this series).   DESIRE is the story of Lucian, cousin of Nicholas Sabine in the 2nd book.  It is due out this coming November, 2001.  I am hoping that the third book will have updates of the couples from the 1st two books.  <br />SEDUCTION:  Story of Baron Damien Sinclair and Lady Vanessa Wyndham.  <br />When Damien's younger sister, Olivia, was injured and her reputation tattered due to a thoughtless young Viscount (who happens to be Vanessa's brother, Aubrey), Damien's swore revenge but since his sister made him promise not to put a bullet through Aubrey's heart, he deliberately challenged Aubrey to a high stake game cards he can't refuse.  Aubrey, young and unexperienced to gambling, lost everything he inherited including his Rutherford estate where his ailing mother and 3 younger sister lived.   Damien meant to ruin not only the young viscount but his family as well.  <br />Upon hearing this, widowed Lady Vanessa Wyndham seeked out Damien pleading for compassion to at least partially forgive Aubrey's debt of honor but Damien had other terms in mind.  She will become his mistress for the summer in exchange for the debts.  Vanessa had no choice but to agree with his terms otherwise his ailing mother and two younger sister (including his reckless brother) would be destitute.  Her only request is to make this arrangement as discreet as possible.  She is a Lady, afterall and she have a reputation to maintain.  Therefore, they have agreed that she will become Olivia's companion &quot;for show&quot; during the day but his mistress during the nights.  Damien was attracted to Vanessa from the start but in all honesty, he didn't care about her reputation.  Initially, she was all part of the revenge as well.  Sorta like, an eye for an eye...<br />This is the first historical romance book I've read wherein the heroine wasn't a virgin and/or she was married once before...  I was afraid I'd be turned off about that flaw but Nicole Jordan really made this story truly seductive.  Not disgusting but utterly sweet and delightful.  I like the way Vanessa carry herself.  She's been through quite a bit of stir herself but her bitter 1st marriage and the scandals she was force to face not only made her stronger but smarter as well.  Despite all her past trouble, she carried herself with pride and self esteem. She's sweet and endearing.   Damien on the otherhand is a true handsome rake.  I mean, really RAKE.  I have read lotsa historical romance books where most heroes are described as such but none ever enumerates their rakish activities aside from having a lot of paramours and gambling.  In this book, Nicole Jordan mentions activities such as debauchery.  He is also a very smooth talker.  I know one or two Amazon reviewers find it corny but his dialogue spoken in a soft deadly voice just awes me ( the way N.J describes it, i swear, i can hear Damien's voice :-)  ).   The words he uses and how he says it just heightens his rakish ways.  Thoroughly seductive!  I like it.   Anyway, Damien's lifestyle will really make you understand why it was hard for him to accept his feelings for Vanessa.  You will end up feeling sorry him instead of frustration (well, maybe a little frustration).  He was confused because he has never paid much attention to LOVE.  He snorts when that word is even mentioned.  For him, love does not exist, let alone feeling it...<br />There is so many scenes in this book that i enjoyed.Aside from the H/H romance, Vanessa's friendship to the sweet-tempered Olivia is simply heart warming.  Even the thoughtless Aubrey will warm your heart.  Oh, i cried when Aubrey apologized and confessed to Olivia.  Their love story is an added spice to this book.  It's heart quenching!  The powerful ending of this book is my favorite of all...  What Damien did for absulotion... and when he realized that the person who he hated so much, Aubrey, is practically the mirror of himself.   Overall, this book is stimulating, endearing and TOTALLY entertaining.   A MUST READ.	2001-03-13
US	48819053	REWJQVBJMDS82	0440223865	557780274	Call Down the Moon	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	More like 3 1/2 stars...	This is the sequel of Once Upon A Dream, story of Hugo Montagu, brother of Raphael in OUAD.   Even in the prequel, Hugo was described as irresponsible, immature, rebellious &amp; constantly in trouble.  He gambles excessively, have had many duels from angry husbands who their wives he caroused.  His brother always bails him out of trouble &amp; he was eventually exiled to Paris.   When he finally returned to London, he supposedly have changed or wanted to change, at least.  He wanted his mother and his brother to be proud of him.  He wanted to buy his own estate, settle down and live a simple life.  His mother was still of course skeptical about all his ideas of the so called &quot;change&quot; and there is yet a lot that remains to be seen....  <br />Everything seems to be looking good for him until Hugo got lured back to the gambling table and lost everything he's got.  He was even considering marrying an ugly but rich heiress who is quite taken by him when he was in Lonson.  Then he saw Meggie Bloom in a mental institution when his mother sent him to stand for her while she recuperates from her flu.  He also found out that Meggie was about to inherit a large sum of money from her long lost father.  Better a beautiful crazy looney heiress than an ugly one, right?  so the scheme begun...<br />I specially like Meggie Bloom, the heroine of this book.  She is not only attractive but tender hearted, well educated, witty &amp; saucy when needed to be.  Since she lived in an orphanage then the Sanitarium all her life, Meggie is innocent and somehow quite naive about the outside world.  It's so amusing when Hugo believed her daft, meanwhile she continues to act or talk like one thinking this is how Hugo or husbands prefers their wife to be.  I enjoyed the secondary characters: the wolf, Sister Agnes, the Aunties and the overall plot.  However, sad to say, Hugo, the hero isn't too likable inspite all the reasons and excuses given...  I kindda understand his character and somehow, i felt a bit sorry for him.  He tries so hard to change yet he keeps getting himself in trouble.  Meggie is the only one who seems to see his good sides.  In fact, that is all she sees.  To her, Hugo is an angel.  Her savior, her Prince.  She sees his potentials &amp; this encourages him to try even harder.  Kindda sad yet irritating and frustrating at the same time...  Oh well, this is probably the reaction Katherine Kingsley wanted the readers to have.  Hugo might not be all too likable compared to the other heros in all the historical romance I've read but he is quite realistic.  I guess, his flaws makes him more real and if you have read ONCE UPON A DREAM,  his character is actually consistent to his role there as well.  <br />My disappointments about this book is the very short appearance of Rafe and the no appearance of Lucy at all.  Rafe and Lucy is the H/H is the first book, OUAD.  They are actually the main reason I've gotten this book.  I wanted to read updates of the two.  I also wondered what happend to Lucy's two stepsisters.  I know that they were from another book story but it would have been nice to read updates about them anyhow.  And lastly, this book didn't have any epilogue... so then what happend to them after they had their confession, pledge love and devotion?  children?  It would be nice to read what happend to them in few years after that... perhaps a mention of whether Hugo was true to his word and really did changed or not... It just ended a bit abrupt in my opinion.  There should have been more proof that Hugo is a changed man.  He said his gambling days were over.  Ummm, but this is what he said once before yet he was tempted back so easily....  there should have been an incident towards the end of this book to proved that his word of promises is acted upon or perhaps in epilogue.  (I hate for Meggie to end up broke due to his gambling, considering it's all her money to begin with.  ugh!  lol) &lt;--- see, to think this way at the end of a book?  i say, this is how unconvince I am.  sorry.   The book also mentioned introducing Meggie to the London Ton and how they would go about it.  But the plans was just told and never acted upon... Wouldn't it be nice to read about that part too?   The Ton's reaction and so on....   I felt so sorry for Meggie in the beginning.  She's such a lovely character (inside and out) that you just can't help wishing her childhood was different... and towards the end, Hugo just wasn't convincing enough for me to feel he deserves Meggie at all.  <br />Well, despite my above complaints, the book overal is a good read.  There is some humor, some love and some romance....  but I liked ONCE UPON A DREAM way better than this one.	2001-03-10
US	48819053	R1010VF4AP287Y	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Pure Heaven!	In ALMOST HEAVEN, Judith McNaught created a courageous yet vulnerable heroine (Elizabeth, Countess of Havenhurst) &amp; a distant yet longing-to-be-loved hero (Ian Thornton, Marquess of Kensington), added with some of J.M's usual spices of misunderstandings &amp; complicated twisters - which made this book one of the most exhilirating story I've read by far.<br />I won't dilly-dally on summarizing the story for new readers since the Amazon Editorial Book Description, Synopsis &amp; other book reviewers here did a pretty good job in covering those details.  However, I'd like to add just how much I enjoyed ALL the secondary characters.  To name a few of my favorites: Ian's charming yet nosy great aunts, Horstene &amp; Charity. His heartwarming grandfather (Duke of Stanhope) - Ian's eventual acceptance &amp; forgiveness towards him and the old mans reaction to his long awaited grandson will truly quench your heart.  Ian's honorable Uncle, Duncan &amp; the ever high almighty Ms. Lucinda Throckmorton-Jones, oh and don't u dare call her otherwise (geez! lol) .  But most of all, I favored Jordan &amp; Alexandra (Duke &amp; Duchess of Hawthorne).  They are both the H/H in Judith McNaught's &quot;SOMETHING WONDERFUL&quot;, which I read and is also one of my top favs book.  It was a delight to read updates of Jordan &amp; Alexandra together with the Dowager Duchess of Hawthorne as well as Roddy Castair.   I suggest you read S.W. first then this book.  ALMOST HEAVEN is sorta like a sequel to that (Although in S.W, Elizabeth &amp; Ian wasn't mentioned at all). But I think it will spark an additional interest if you know the romance of the secondary characters here in A.H..  You will appreciate their apprearances more.  <br />I know there are couple of readers here in Amazon who complained about Elizabeth's &quot;decision&quot; when she believed her half brother (Robert) &amp; doubted Ian.  Thing is, she really didn't know Ian all that much compared to his half brother, who sheknew all her life.  Also, Robert have always been nice to her.  He never mistreated her nor abused her.  In fact, he did take care of her in some ways however misguided it might have been.  So I think Elizabeth's initial response to Robert's tales was more realistic. Mostly, Fear &amp; anger towards Ian then doubts &amp; confusions follows.  However, don't be discourage as Judith McNaught once again overturned this bad choice into an amusing &amp; sighing conclusion that will leave you smirking and thinking about it for hours afterwards.  Overall, this book is exuberant &amp; riveting.  A must READ &amp; A must HAVE in your collection - As I sure do.	2001-03-09
US	48819053	RG68WGTIPGXI7	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	1st read: 3 stars ; 2nd read: 4 stars	Until you is the 3rd book of the Westmoreland series.  A KINGDOM OF DREAM and WHITNEY, MY LOVE is the first two.  I've read both books ( my first 2 of Judith McNaught) and I was very impressed.  (AKOD is the best book I've read by far... but thats another review all together.)   I enjoyed Stephen's (brother of Clay) character in W,ML.  So naturally, I was excited and looking forward to read his story here in U.Y..  I am sad to say that the first time I read this book, I was somewhat disappointed.  This book didn't have the spunk and excitement of the usual Judith McNaught's unpredictable twist.  The story, however different seems simple and laid back.  I also prefer the Stephen in W,ML.  He was more toned with humor then.  I understood why he treated Sheridan the way he did ( it was guilt at first, then when he acknowledge love, he felt that he was betrayed and the reader must consider his past experience too...)  so I still find him a likable hero.   He just gotten too serious.  The heroine's character was kindda boring for me.   Sheridan Bromleigh didn't draw any appeal or any effects to me whatsoever.  Although, I didn't particularly hate her, yet I cannot draw myself to specially like her either.  She just wasn't impressive as Jennifer in AKOD or as spunky as Tory in &quot;ONCE &amp; ALWAYS&quot; or as any of JM's well designed Heroines (I have read all of her Historical Romance Novels).  Sheridan's character and even her actions was simply too unpolished &amp; unconvincing for me to really appreciate her.  Somehow I feel that Stephen deserve a different heroine.  I have this uncontentment feeling.  She doesn't seem fit to be a Countess or one of the Westmoreland wife.  <br />After I read this book the first time, I didn't write a review for it right away.  I honestly didn't want to ruin JM's good image in my reviewer's page   :-)   Thank goodness I waited...I would have rated it a 2-3 stars then.  However, after reading ONCE AND ALWAYS, SOMETHING WONDERFUL andALMOST HEAVEN, I re-read UNTIL YOU because I remembered the secondary characters in this book are the heroes on the 3 books I mentioned above.  What do you know, the 2nd timer seems much more fun.   There's a new spark of interest due to the apperances of Victoria and Jason, Alexandra &amp; Jordan.  Oh dear Nicki too... Even the mention of Ian Thornton, Charity, the Duchess of Claremont &amp; Dorothy made me smile.  It's a delight to read updates of these characters especially the couples and the mention of their children.   Perhaps you should read all three books before starting the Westmoreland Series... I find it more interesting if you know the secondary characters romance stories as well.  <br />Overall, this book isn't too bad.   It's just not one of JM best.  IN MY OPINION, this is somewhat a flaw in comparison to AKOD, WML, SW, OaA and AH.   If you are a JM's fan and have thoroughly enjoyed all her historical books, dont' expect too much when you read this one.  Be warned that way it won't be too much of a disappointment.  Enjoy it anyhow!	2001-03-05
US	48819053	R1I8RORQW0XHQU	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Laugh &amp; Sigh - totally entertaining	The &quot;The Viscount who love me&quot; is the second book of the Bridgerton Series.  The &quot;Duke and I&quot; is the first book &amp; story of Dafne, first younger sister of Anthony.  3rd book would be the &quot;An Offer From A Gentleman&quot;, story of second brother, Benedict.  Still coming soon on July, 2001.<br />This is my second book of Julia Quinn and I must say, I am more than please.  The &quot;Duke &amp; I&quot; was my first &amp; as soon as I finished that, I went and bought this one.  So far, so good... I cannot wait to read more of her books especially the rest of this Bridgerton Series.<br />Viscount Anthony Bridgerton is one my few favorites heroes of all time.  He is not only handsome, rich &amp; England's most eligible bachelor, he also possessed one character that impressed me the most.  He respects and truly love his family.  His father died when he was 18 years old and as the eldest son, he took the responsibility of taking care of his family ( a mother, 3 brothers, 4sisters and himself).  Now that a big load,  He didn't do this out of obligation though, he is truly devoted to them with love &amp; pride.  He is their protector and he most certainly watch out for them especially the woman.  I specially loved the scenes of Anthony being helpless when it comes to his mother.  The dowager Viscountess is surely a wonderful mother - Heart warming!  Anthony still listens to her &amp; even fears her ( chuckle ).  Despite his MANLY reputation in the society, when it comes to his mother, Anthony is simply a son... and mother's knows best.   He might be describe as a RAKE but he is responsible &amp; honorable when it comes to his family.  In the past, I have read books wherein it defines the hero as such too but there is limited action to convince me so.  In this case, Anthony proved to be that and more... If u haven't read the &quot;Duke &amp; I&quot;, then you should pick it up before this one.  You will truly be impressed with Anthony.  He seriously went to the extent just to protect his family's honor ( protect his sister's honor &amp; even his sister's heart).  Now, if that isn't honorably impressive then I don't know what is..<br />On the same note, Kate is like Anthony.  She too loves her family especially her younger sister, Edwina.  Compared to Kate, Edwina, is the fairer, prettier &amp; smarter.  Naturally, she's became London's Belle of every Balls.  She had many suitors &amp; marriage offers... that includes Anthony Bridgerton, who decided it's time to settle down and produce an heir.  Since Edwina is London's catch of the year, Anthony decided that she will do for his wife.   The courting begun... how hard could it be, right?  Afterall, he is England's greatest catch too.  Oh....but Anthony never forsaw the greatest challenge, more like hindrance --&gt; Kate, who loathe him and who vowed to protect her younger sister's heart from scoundrel rakes such as Anthony.   Edwina, who loves &amp; respects Kate just as much, seek out Kate's approval on every suitors.   She even declared this to the entire Ton.   Therefore, Kate was not immune to all the courtesy and special attention &quot;Edwina's suitor&quot; bestows upon her.  But she knows the game well &amp; is often ahead of it until Anthony shows up.  He change the rules &amp; confuse not only her mind but her heart as well.<br />I agree with one of the reviewers here in Amazon when she said that most story with plot as this one (sisters, one pretty... one plain), normally would describe the pretty one with awful character or a knit-wit.  Meanwhile the plain one would have all the brains &amp; perfect traits.  In this book however, Julia Quinn made the characters very realistic.  In addition to Edwina's extra ordinary beauty, she was still described as intelligent, and with a good heart.  You can't help but like her.  Kate, on the other hand... yes, she's plain &amp; simple yet she has the spunk, sense humor &amp; very witty ( often times, glib), thatjust impressed me.    She was true to herself.  She knows she doesn't have what Edwina has yet she is never jealous of her which I find heart warming.  She often times outsmart Anthony on their bantering which thourougly entertained me (Lots of humorous dialogue).  This however, leaves Anthony baffled.  He didn't like her.  She makes him furious most of the time.  He knows that Kate would never be an obedient wife, she's too confident, tactless &amp; doesn't have the gracefulness of Edwina yet... he finds himself thinking about her (esp. at nights) and longing to see her the next day.  You'd think he'd avoid her &amp; her mouth trashing words that's only meant for him.  I guess, you don't need all the beauty &amp; brains to be impressively attractive, huh?  All u need is simply be yourself!<br />Aside from the love story of Anthony &amp; Kate, I specially enjoyed reading updates of Dafne &amp; Simon.  I enjoyed the contribution of the secondary characters especially the famous Lady Whistledown.  Oh my!  Her gossip column just keeps getting bold &amp; interesting every week.  I just can't wait to finally find out who she really is.   Aww, i tell ya, I have a guess who she might really be but...  again, I am not 100% sure.  After you read this, email me your guess.  Perhaps we might have the same thoughts about this one.  I can't wait to read &quot;AN OFFER FROM A GENTLEMAN&quot;, that is Benedict Bridgerton's story, second brother of Anthony.  I hope there is update of Dafne &amp; Simon as well as Anthony &amp; Kate (Edwina too).  Although, I am sure that the mysterious Lady Whistledown would once again entertain us with her vastly amusing/interesting gossips.  Hats off to you, Ms. Julia Quinn for a job well done!	2001-03-04
US	48819053	R3KBN3UJH2D4NU	0553293125	900306430	Sinful	Books	4	48	52	N	Y	Sinfully Romantic	This is the 1st book of St. John Series.  Read Wicked (story of Beau, Sinjin's son), the second book of the series.<br />After reading this book, I didn't write a review for it right away as I normally would have.  I always write a book review ( esp. when I am taken by the story) as soon as I finished the book, that way the story is still fresh in my mind.   However, this book seems to have puzzled me.  I like the plot, the hero &amp; the heroine.  I enjoyed the book immensely, no doubt about it but there was something either wrong or missing to it.  I didn't know what it was until I read it the second time.   <br />Sinjin St. John, Duke of Seth is like most hero in every historical romance novel.  He is handsome, rich, a rake &amp; England's most eligible bachelor.  However, he has a dark past which made him vow never to marry or fall in love again.  Sinjin's life seemed prefectly content until Chelsea Fergusson appeared in his carriage with scandalous  yet tempting request.  She begs Sinjin to take her virginity, to save her from unwanted marriage.  This is one of my favorite scenes - Her naive comments, suggestions &amp; statements on how to go about this request &amp; Sinjin's reaction to it is simply amusing.    Sinjin noted that Chelsea is clearly a high breed lady ( despite her scandalous request ) and among other things, sister of his friend, Duncan... so naturally, he painfully refused the request &amp; took her home.  But the head strong &amp; determined Chelsea will not be deterred....<br />The immediate story line of this book is pretty much causal - rich, handsome, eligible rake hero and a head strong, intelligent &amp; beautiful heroine who is arranged to an unwanted marriage by family to improved financial status or to pay off gambling debts.  However, what made their story much more appealing though is the way they both intensely react to each other.  Sinjin &amp; Chelsea didn't follow propriety or rules of the society.  They were sorta a rebel.  Yes, they try to be discreet but passion &amp; the strong attraction interfered with common sense.  I highly enjoyed Chelsea's character.  She is innocent yet seductively naughty &amp; straight forward.  She wasn't afraid to feel &amp; react to their passion, which are all new to her.  As for Sinjin, sex was definitely not new to him but there's an unexplainable urge of desire only Chelsea can satisfy (temporarily).  He was always careful and have never caroused beyond brothels or married woman.  Chelsea however, he sought after... She was a risk he was pleasantly willing to take.  They both least thought nor expected LOVE.<br />The only thing that bothered me about this book is Sinjin's abrupt change of character towards the end.  You'll have to read the book to know what I mean.  Given the circumstances, I could understand his bitterness... but his cold &amp; rude treatment towards Chealse was simply uncalled for, (given the circumstances that she wasn't entirely at fault) &amp; it dragged on for quite a long time too.  I was disappointed because Sinjin was such a gentleman to Chelsea in the beginning of the book.  He was sooo smooth and controlled.  He was kind, thoughtful, playful &amp; gentle to her.  Almost as if you can see that he truly cares for her.  His intense attraction towards her in the beginning was too much to abruptly just turn around like that.   He became very insulting, degrading Chelsea &amp; very hurtful.  To the extreme!  This really irritated me, perhaps I just feel so sorry for Chelsea that i am not reading through reasons.   Chelsea's character also changed towards the end, she was too understanding, too accepting &amp; too forgiving... She was reaching out to him with all her heart, waiting... waiting... waiting for Sinjin to come around, which is kindda devastating.    She blamed herself more even if they were both force into that situation together.   After what she's been through (esp. that awful stormy night), I rather think that Sinjinshould be the one to do the reaching out most.  <br />Well, despite that small troubled comment above, the whole story/book in general is entertainingly romantic &amp; heart quenching.  I surely recommend it!  Despite the ordinary immediate plot, the steamy love scenes &amp; twists somehow contributed in making this book unconventionally different from the usual historical romances novels that I have read by far.	2001-02-25
US	48819053	R5Y0ERDSQ72WD	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	99	109	N	Y	Laugh &amp; Sigh - totally entertaining	Duke and I, is the first book of the Bridgerton Series. 2nd book is The Viscount who love me,  3rd would be the An Offer From A Gentleman which is still coming soon on July,2001.  I read this book in one sitting, finished at 5am in the morning &amp; was a zombie at work few hours afterwards :-) Since Julia Quinn is new to me, I honestly didn't think this book was going to keep me up all night. I was mistaken. <br />Simon Basset, Earl of Clyvedon, Duke of Hasting is far from the regular heroes of most historical romance novels that I have read. Yes, he was described as handsome, rich, intelligent &amp; a RAKE - just like most heroes... What made him different from the others is that he have a stuttering problems, which he has learned to control as he grew up yet it's still there when he's nervous or upset.This flaw made Simon more human, realistic.  He had an awfully sad childhood too. His father denied him love and privileged because of his stuttering. His father was so shamed of him that he told people he no longer had a son.He would rather passed his dukedom to his cousin than to his son who he called stupid, idiot, imbecile and nitwit.This lead Simon to hate and yet it inspired him to worked hard in order to proved his father wrong. In the end, his father proudly saw that Simon was actually worthy of his dukedom and passed it on to him when he died. Because of his father's obsession on his dukedom lineage, Simon vowed never to marry, never to have children - to end the blood line with him. But when he returned to England &amp; inherited his dukedom after his father's death, he was sought after by every MOTHER of the ton with marriageable daughters.  <br />Dafne Bridgerton on the other hand had a full happy childhood. Even if her father had died when she was only 10, She grew up with a loving mother, 7 brothers &amp; sisters - who are all close knit. Naturally, because of her happy experience as a child, she longed to get married and have lots of children just like what she was use to growing up with.Being a wife and motherhood is her simple dream. Unlike most heroines of historical romances novels, Dafne didn't have an extra ordinary beauty but she is sweet, funny, philosophical, strong willed &amp; determined. She might not have &quot;THAT&quot; extra ordinary beauty but she is well liked by everybody... and that is somehow a problem in finding a suitable husband. She possessed a unique character that draws every people to view her simply as A FRIEND.That is one of the two reasons why most eligible bachelors doesn't court her. She was everybody's friend. The other reason was his 3 elder brothers ( Anthony, Benedict &amp; Colin) who watched her like a hawk. <br />To keep ambitious mothers with marriageable daughters away from him, Simon propose a scheme to Dafne, who happens to be Anthony's (Simon's best friend) younger sister.  They will feign &quot;attachment&quot;.  In return, he insisted to Dafne that when the Ton realize that the Duke had captured an interest towards her, Eligible bachelors who viewed her as a friend would eventually see her in different light.Rather conceited perhaps? She agreed &amp; gotten 6 suitors the very next day. Interesting. So far, the scheme seems to be working well with both of them until Dafne realized she was slowly falling in love with Simon.That's when things got complicated.At the same time, Simon's feelings towards her were getting stronger. He tries so hard to keep it in control. After all, Thou shalt not lust after thy friend's sister! But what happens if Dafne seduces him? Would he be able to keep his emotions in control? Would he remember the most important rule amongst friends?  <br />I normally prefer the man to be the seducer but in this book, I rather like the way Julia Quinn wrote and described Dafne's thoughts. The way Dafne shows her emotions didn't sound disgusting nor exaggerated. Shestill have innocence but with a spark if naive naughtiness...  Her actions are believable, understandable &amp; practical considering the situation Simon is in, well.. the situation, they're both in. I also liked the idea that Simon &amp; Dafne started as friends then developed into something deeper. They shared thoughts &amp; dreams as well as fears &amp; insecurities.They understood each other before words are passed, they formed a special bond before marriage - this is somewhat unusual in historical romances novels that I have read so far. I would like to mention my teeny bitty complaint about this story though, I wondered what happened to Nurse Hopkins.  She who supposedly loved and took care of Simon ever since he was a baby.  I would have loved to read about her.  It would be nice to read her proud reaction to see what Simon had accomplished.  Since she was the encouragement &amp; Simon's maternal support, it would have been nice to see her involved in Simon's life all throughout the book.  Oh well, this is just a small flaw which I thought I'd mention.<br />Oh it won't be fair not to mention the famous Lady Whistledown's gossip column. My! Not only is she mysteriously accurate, she is soooo funny. Her column is one of my favorites in this book. I have a couple of guess who this lady might be but I'm not 100% sure. When you finish reading this book, email me your guess. It would be fun to compare thoughts and guess about this. I sure can't wait to read the rest of the Bridgerton Series to know who this elite lady is.  This book is my first of Julia Quinn and definitely wasn't the last. I was thoroughly pleased &amp; entertained with this one that I am now in the process of reading &quot;The Viscount who love me&quot;, that is Anthony's story.  Anthony is Simon's best friend &amp; Dafne's eldest brother. Will write a review on that soon afterwards too.	2001-02-25
US	48819053	R1MCZX3ERGFG4K	0727853899	186750712	Kiss Me, Katie	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Funny &amp; Romantic  - Read series in order.	The Americana series is about a town called Homestead, Idaho. The creation of the town beginning with just few families in small farm houses, one main street and only few stores to it's booming times with railroads and big hotels. I have only read three of the series but so far, it makes me feel like I am in the town itselft. There are many characters aside from the two primary couples. It contains love stories as well as family and neighborly love scenes. People helping one another is heart warming. Like every small town, everyone knows everybody's business and gossips cannot be avoided. Though I find that flaw amusing in many ways. My favorite aside from the romance story is that each book contains many updates of the characters from the previous book. I also enjoy reading books about children and their growing up years especially if they become the couple or the main characters in the next book. It is like keeping track of a mini series in T.V.. This is what makes the series so interesting from the beginning to the end.<br />This is the last book of the Americana Series.  It's the story of Benjamin Rafferty (son of Michael &amp; Rose in book 2 &quot;Forever, Rose&quot;) and Katie Jones (daughter of Lark &amp; Yancy in book 2 &quot;Forever, Rose&quot;).  After reading the book synopsis, I was doubtful as to whether I will enjoy this book or not.  I thought this book would somehow be a bit boring or too serious considering Katie's involvement in suffrage movement &amp; her firm belief of the woman's rights.  I hate to waste my entire time reading about the woman's rights in the the early 1900's.  However, I made myself read it because it was part of the Americana Series, which I have started, and &quot;Forever, Rose&quot; is my favorite of all the series.  I was excited to read updates of Rose &amp; Lark as well as the rest of the people in Homestead, Idaho.   I am glad I wasn't disappointed.  As it turned out, the book was very interesting.  Robin Lee Hatcher blended the facts with lots of romance &amp; humor.  I am happy to say that there was no dull moment. The heart warming love story of Katie &amp; Ben wasn't overpowered by the facts or stories of the suffrage movement either.  Everything was just blended perfectly!<br />Since the... Editorial Reviews pretty much cover the basics or the summary of this book, there is no need for me to carry on... <br />However, here's the series in sequence: 1st: WHERE THE HEART IS ------&gt; 2nd: FOREVER,ROSE --------&gt; 3rd: REMEMBER WHEN ------------&gt; 4th: Kiss me, Katie. <br />If you started the series, which I highly recommend...  finish it with &quot;Kiss Me, Katie&quot;.  It's a wonderful end to the Americana Series.	2001-02-25
US	48819053	R1C3O79YXIQXE	0671502522	140620344	A Holiday Of Love : Miracles / Change of Heart / Daniel and the Angel / Hark!  The Herald	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Heart Warming	There are four short love stories in this book, written by 4 different authors, of which, three is my favorite. Jude Deveraux, Judith McNaught &amp; Julie Garwood. The fourth &amp; last story was written by Arnette Lamb. I haven't heard of her before but after reading her short novella called, Hark! The Herald. I can't wait to pick up more of her books. This is also my first novellas. It is somewhat different from reading a whole book with one plot &amp; with same characters. However, I find it rather unfullfilling. That is the only reason why I rate this book 4 stars. It's just too short for my liking. Read below to find out more...<br />First Novella: Change of Heart, By Jude Deveraux::::: This short story is about a genius 12 yr old boy name Eli. He wasn't rich yet lived with his mother in decent means. He befriended a billionaire, Frank Taggert. Love match making begun with the help of Frank's brother, Micheal Taggert &amp; his wife Samantha, who couldn't wait to see Frank settled down. Mike &amp; Sam's love story is in the book called, Sweet Liar. Since I thouroughly enjoyed Sweet Liar, It was good to read updates of them &amp; their children. Eli's mother, Miranda is a very good mother, kind hearted &amp; unselfish. I liked her attitude towards life. Though, she was attractive, she was described as 30 pounds over weight. I guess there are times, i get tired of reading a physically perfect heroine so this really appealled to me. Frank however is rich &amp; handsome but his heart is as cold as ice. His friendship to Eli changed his outlook in life &amp; his meeting with Miranda changed his heart forever. This story is simply heart warming esp. this Xmas season. The plot &amp; the characters are very interesting that once again, i hated for it to end so suddenly. I wished JD would rewrite this short story &amp; make it into a whole novel with more details. It really has potentials... especially if the friendship of Eli &amp; Chelsea, perhaps their growing years together, would be added into it. This is why i rate it 4 stars. I wanted to read more.... Aside from my uncontentment, overall, it is a good book!<br />Second Novella: Miracles, By Judith McNaught::::: Now this story really bugged me! You see, I have read J.M's Whitney, My Love &amp; Until You. Just like every reader who have read the mentioned books, I have been waiting for Nicholas Duville's story. He was one of my favorite hero of all times. He's smooth, cool, handsome, decent &amp; kind hearted. He has fallen for Whitney &amp; Sheridan in both books yet gave them up, even helped them find their true happiness in another man's hands. Now if that isn't heroic, I don't know what is. When I heard this book have Nikk's story, i bought it right away only to be disappointed. His story is too short. I agree with other reviewers here in Amazon that he deserves a book of his own. Once again, the story has full potential for a novel. Good plot, and Julianna was a darling. She was also in the book, UNTIL YOU. I liked her very much then that I wish to read more of her &amp; of Nikki... Perhaps J.M. would rewrite this into a one book novel. I would buy it in a snap. <br />Third Novella: Daniel&amp; the Angel, By Jill Barnett::::: This is perhaps my favorite story in this book. It is short yet fulfulling. Just like it should be. It doesn't leave you hanging or wanting to read more... perfect story for Xmas too. Lillian is an angel in heaven who kept getting herself into trouble. When she ruined St. Peter's gate, she was exiled back to earth. D.L Stewarts, a very rich yet uncaring man believed that money can buy everything, from love to people. As an ex-angel, her outlook on life was purely opposite to his, believing there is always good in every person &amp; that money cannot buy people nor love. A challenge was made between them... St. Peter also gave Lillian another chance if she could perform a miracle here on Earth. She must make D.L Stewart give his heart out unconditionally in order for her to return to heaven &amp; be an angel again. Would she succeed? But then... if she succeeds, what would happend if she returns to heaven? esp. when she finds herself in love with him? This story really touched my heart. The cute angelic occurances, the archangels, it's wings, halo, clouds.... the riddles &amp; quotes all lifted my heart. It is a perfect reading tool this xmas time. <br />Fourth Novella: Hark! The Herald, By Arnette Lamb::::: Randolf Mcqueen found himself love at first sight at the Scottish King Herald, Elizabeth Gordon. He was known as a womanizer yet he couldn't seduce the most intriguing woman in their land. He found himself being chivalrous &amp; patient... I enjoyed the way Randolf tries to win Elizabeth heart. The challenges &amp; the bets... their bantering is also quite funny. I liked the way Elizabeth carry herself ; the way she takes pride in what she does. Although, I couldn't believe she was actually wearing a chastity belt! This story also include a short interesting history of the Scots &amp; the English. The peace and unity of the Highland clans was a nice ending. This story is warm &amp; fitted for the holiday.	2001-01-26
US	48819053	R3IVXKR6X4IQV6	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	82	94	N	N	Funny, Romantic, Heart Quenching &amp; Enchanting...	Once again, this is one of my favorite Judith McNaught book!<br />Jordan, the rich &amp; powerful Duke of Hawthorne, known also as a handsome rake was travelling to the countryside where his mother is staying when he met trouble in the highway.  A knight in a rusty armour came to his rescue.  When the person in the armour suit, who he assumed was a young boy, was knocked unconscious in the process of saving his life, he had to make sure he would be ok, returned to his family &amp; be well compensated.  Therefore, in good intention, he carried the boy to the nearest motel.  When Jordan took off the armour suit &amp; clothes to check for any open wound,  he realized that the boy he thought was actually a young girl.   Alexandra was already half naked &amp; half conscious when the hotel hostess came inside the bedroom.  That good intentions turned into a black cloud which created a scandal in Alexandra's small town, ruining her reputation &amp; her chance of finding a decent husband, which infuriated her mother.  Since Alexandra's family were impoverished when her father died, her mother took this opportunity to better their situation.  Forced to marry each other, their life changed forever....<br />Even if she wasn't ready to marry, Alexandra found herself already half in love with Jordan.  On the other hand,  Jordan who have no intentions of marrying, let alone falling in love, decided to wed Alexandra. Afterall, he owed her for saving his life.  However, What Alexandra's unaware of is he plans to leave her in one of his estates, fully financially compensated, including her mother and only to be visited once or twice a year for show.  He intended to live his life just the way he was before he got himself in this mess.  <br />Alexandra Lawrence was a tomboyish, innocent, naive young country girl when Jordan first met her.  She was so naive that she was so unpretentious with her emotions.   She speaks her mind and shows her emotions freely.  She was romantic &amp;  full of imaginations.  She's overwhelming &amp; she amazes him as well.  She was totally different compared to the Ladies Jordan is use to being with.  But before Jordan can see Alexandra flourished into a beautiful Swan, he got himself into another trouble.  This time, Alexandra wasn't there to rescue him... <br />When Alexandra was initially introduce to the Ton, She acknowledge her love for Jordan which made her the laughing stock of the Ton.  She didn't know the true character of Jordan.  She always believed him to be good hearted, a gentlemen &amp; a sensitive person.  However, as she matures,  what she eventually heard and found out was an exact opposite.  She is no longer the naive country girl who Jordan played like a fool.   That's when she decided to be the Belle of every Ball.  She stopped sulking, came out, enjoyed herself immensely &amp; became every man's desire. <br />This book have so many twists &amp; turns that just makes you want to read it until it ends.  Aside from the suspense of finding who wants to kill Jordan, Alexandra's growing relationship with Jordan makes this book very romantic and heart quenching.  There is so many scenes I love in this book but the ending was the powerful and the best one of all.  Jordan's confessions, his touching words of noticing colors &amp; the jewel gifts that Jordan gave her made me cry.  I was overjoyed!  Once you read the book, you will know that the jewel he gave her had other significance. A deeper, thoughtful meaning!  Jordan mother's hatred to Alexandra &amp; her acceptance in the end was also heart warming.  The &quot;situation&quot; that J.M. wrote in order for the two to be close was really sad.  That &quot;situation&quot; gave Alexandra &amp; the dowager duchess a special bond.  One of my favorite scene was also Alexandra's second wedding to Tony, Jordan's cousin.  Oh, you must read it to find out.  Don't want to give it away for you... But it's so excitingly funny!   There is so many wonderfully described secondary characters in this book, all of them contributed to the success of this story. I liked every one of them!  Though,  I specially loved Alexandra's two loyal servant &amp; friends.  The blind Filbert &amp; the deaf Penrose.   Alexandra childhood and her relationship with her father was really sad.  The confession of Filbert to Jordan about Alex's past made me cry.  After reading this part, you simply want the best for Alexandra and what she finally gained in the end was truely what she deserve.  Loved this book.  Glad I have it in my collection!   Pick it up, read it... you won't be sorry!	2000-12-30
US	48819053	R1Q7YDIJ573ND4	0821710370	254012947	Rapture's Dream	Books	4	12	12	N	N	It's actually a 4 1/2 stars rating...	This is my first book of Carol Finch &amp; now I am looking forward to read more of her books.  I actually haven't heard of her before so I don't know what her books genre... I am a Historical Romance novel reader &amp; coincidentally (&amp; LUCKILY), I saw this book lying around in the library's table. The front picture wasn't really to my liking but since I was waiting for someone, I thought I'd pick it up, simply browse through it to pass the time.  Well, whadya know?!  I got hooked. I was only in the second chapter yet I couldn't put it down.  When the person I was waiting for finally showed up, I had to barrow the book to take home for myself.  I finished it that same day too, though it was late at night already! Now, I am looking around bookstores to buy one copy to add in my collection but so far, no luck. This book is out of print!  :-(<br />When Garielle Jarmon's father died, She became the ward of his cruel &amp; treacherous uncle.  She is a rich heiress yet her estate &amp; her wealth is on hold until she finds a husband.   Her uncle hated her.  He believes that Gabrielle is too spoiled &amp; needed a  man to put her in the proper place.   He was determined to make Gabrielle's life miserable by finding her the cruelest husband there is. Therefore, he signed a marriage contract for Gabrielle to marry Horace Farleigh, who was known for his lechery &amp; wanted a virgin wife.  There is no other choice but to ran away &amp; perhaps break her maidenhead so that Horace Farleigh will find her unsuitable. Never knowing her destiny will become even more complicated.<br />Capt. Dane Hampton was almost dead when Gabrielle found him.  She carried him to her uncle's home risking the consequences of  being caught riding outside despite her uncle's strict instructions of not leaving the estate.  Dane first saw Gabrielle, riding atop a white horse when he was half conscious.  He thought the imagine of an angel was simply a dream.   But then the angel became somewhat a reality when she kept appearing to him at nights, touching him gently, talking to him in a soothing voice... giving him peace and contentment...  YET confusing him at the same time.<br />Dressed and talked as a boy, Gabrielle became Dane's Valet and more.  They became friends.  The &quot;young boy&quot; who Dane calls, Gabe, became his confidant, his friend and even his savior from being murdered.  Gabe saved his life three more times &amp; boy, does he/she remind him every single time.  Gabe's relationship with Dane was touchy &amp; funny.  He finds the boy feisty, hot tempered yet intriguingly good hearted. There is something he couldn't put his fingers on, not knowing that the boy with smudge face is actually a beautiful lady.    The real Lady Gabrielle who visits Dane's room at night as a faceless angel is certainly exciting &amp; heart warming.  I kept hoping she'd tell him the truth but she was afraid to be sent home, knowing Dane's gratefulness for his uncle's hospitality when he was at near death.  <br />Aside from the special friendship of the boy, Gabe &amp; Dane ... and the growing intimacy of Gabrielle &amp; Dane, the suspense of who wanted to kill Dane was also another add-on spice to the book.  My favorite part of this book is when Dane finally found out Gabe's secret by accident.  Aww!   I also laughed at the scenes when Dane visits his paramour for pleasure while Gabe waits outside, furious.  The detailed friendship &amp; romance mixed with suspense made this book very entertaining.  I enjoyed each page till the end.  I wanted to give 4 1/2 stars rating on this book but there is only 1 to 5 stars, no halfs....  The reason why I didn't rate this book a  5 stars was only 'cuz of a teeny tiny self preference, I was hoping Gabrielle would concieved a child at the end of the book. That would have been a perfect ending to this unique story.  ---&gt;  or perhaps she could become pregnant while she was still the boy, Gabe?  Afterall, Gabe becomes Gabrielle most of the nights &amp; make love to Dane.  A pregnant boy? Now, that would have been really funny, wouldn't it?	2000-12-30
US	48819053	RP95127NZMUFS	0449002136	883837876	The Love Slave	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Sex, sex... where is the Romance?	Regan: Born the second of the twins was a disappointment to her mother, who wanted a son.  She wasn't favored nor love but neither treated badly by her mother.  Just ignored.  When her twin sister, Grouch,  marries the laird's son to form a unity &amp; peace to the clan's enemy, she was to be sent in the convent forever.  Her mother &amp; twin sister had a plan of revenge which requires Regan to sacrifice her virginity to Grouch husband.  Grouch was carrying another's mans child already. When she arrived in the convent, however, she was abducted, shipped to the other side of the world, sold &amp; trained to be a love slave for a king....<br />The first part of the book was very intriguing.  The conflict between the clans, the planned revenge &amp; Regan's destiny was something u want to read more on...   I find the first part of the book exciting.  Until...Regan begun her love slave training.  The book then simply concentrated on the arts of sex, which was somehow interesting - different, I may add!  ... but the initial story line was forgotten.  What happend to Grouch?  Was her planned revenge successful?  I was hoping to see Regan return to her homeland even for just a visit.  Regan,who became Zaynab, supposedly also enjoys being a love slave cuz she was pampered compared to living in her homeland where she was ignored.  Wouldn't it be nice to read about her homecoming when she was finally free? Wouldn't it be nice to know if her sacrifice was a fruitful act?  I think this book is just incomplete.  Beatrice Small simply didn't have to mentioned all that revenge plot to begin with if she didn't have the plan to end it.  But then I wouldn't be intrigue to read on now, would I ?<br />Aside from the steamy sex, there is absolutely no romance between Zaynab &amp; Karim.  I thought their sex was just the same as Zaynab's other partners so what makes them both special to one another?  Ok, they always thought about each other.  They haven't forgotten each other and supposedly they are both so much in love with each other.  But how did this happend?  She was Karim's student, He was Zaynab's sex teacher... Aside from that, there was no situations or occurances that you could see nor feel their love for one another.  Totally unconvincing to me.   The Caliph feelings for Zaynab was more detailed.  He might be old for her but you can see how much he loves her. Not only did he pampered her with gifts, he was unselfish, sensitive &amp; considerate.  <br />I would have given this book a 1 star rating if not for the well researched and well used informations of the arts of sex.  The title suit its content... Beatrice Small made this book very different from my usual historical romance books by Julie Garwood, Jude Deveraux, Jill Barnett &amp; Judith McNaught.  This book was interesting yet I prefer the historical ROMANCE stories...with lots of courtship and old fashion love making :-)     This is my first book of Beatrice Small, I might even pick up some more of her books in the future to give it another try,  as this one wasn't that bad.  But I think I would barrow her books in the library first.  And if I like the book, I'll buy it to add in my collection.	2000-12-29
US	48819053	R1WBQ42H9AAFNP	067103409X	842846165	The Silver Coin (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Better than the Gold Coin...	Let me start by saying that this book is better than the prequel, The Gold Coin, in terms of the plot &amp; the mystery line. Compare to the first book, this one encourages you to read on. The thrill &amp; suspense of finding out who the real assassin is, is the bright side of this book. The way the assassin delivers his threat &amp; the way A.K. described the detailed thoughts of the sicko assassin made this book spine chilling. I actually got goose bumps from time to time. I think she should be a mystery writer more than a romance (base on this Coin series, that is). I somewhat enjoyed this book bec. of this mystery plot.  However, the romance is as much disappointing as the prequel. The love story of Breanna &amp; Royce was just as unimpressive, unconvincing &amp; dull as Anastasia's &amp; Damen's. Their relationship wasn't developed enough - the declaration of their love was too simple, quick &amp; unexciting - NO challenge whatsoever. Like the Gold Coin, this book also shows too many contradictory conversations, actions &amp; gestures given the time of the 18th century. I did not like the idea of Breanna, who was supposedly a prim &amp; proper lady, became the seducer in their relationship. Base on this Coin series, the two ladies where the aggressive one when it came to showing &amp; demanding sexual desires... OR perhaps I am just old fashion &amp; prefers the heroine as naive &amp; innocent when it comes to this area. <br />The reason why I rate this book only a 3 stars is because despite my enjoyment to the mystery plot, this book was under Regency/Historical Romance gender. The romance as I have said above was simply not impressive &amp; the historical time plot wasn't researched on &amp; used properly. Too many inconsistencies &amp; contradictions.... Had this book been under Mystery (&amp; not historical), I would have rate it a 4 stars.<br />I am a new historical romance novel reader but I have read more than 40 books in this gender for the past three months ( mostly written by Julie Garwood's, Judith McNaught's, Jude Deveraux's &amp; Jill Barnett's). In this span of time, I found out my own preferences. I have learned to know exactly what I like and what to expect in a historical romance stories. Perhaps my expectations are higher because of the previous books I have read &amp; from the above authors? Well, all these comments are only my opinion. Everyone have different taste &amp; preferences. I read quite a bit of 5 stars rating here in Amazon about this book, So...it is always best to find out for yourself. I suggest you barrow this book in the library to be on the safe side. Then buy your own copy afterwards - if u find it more than what I have said. Good luck!	2000-12-15
US	48819053	R192ELLD7DXIXE	0671018884	467401760	The Gold Coin (Sonnet Books)	Books	2	1	1	N	Y	More of mystery than romance	This is my first book of Andrea Kane.  My brother bought me this book (and the Silver Coin) from my Amazon Wish List.  I have this book in my list even after reading the reviews because I find the title &amp; the book descripton interesting, also the picture cover is quite intriguing. I wanted to judge the book by myself that I wasn't one bit discourage by the low reviews here in Amazon.  Ummm, now however, I wish I just picked this book up in the library than having it in my Amazon wish list (worst, among the 26 of my list, this is what my bro picked) - just my luck.  I am in the process of reading the Silver Coin.  I am crossing my fingers &amp; hoping it's better than this one.<br />The plot &amp; the mystery puzzle of this book is quite interesting.  However, there is so many inaccuracies in this book to make me enjoy it to it's full content.  The conversations of the character's doesn't sound like the 18th century, let alone their gestures &amp; the actions.   There is also so many contradictions in the character's descriptions.  A.K described one thing yet the conversation &amp; the actions says another.... For instance, Anastasia is supposedly a virgin yet she's the one who initiates most of the intimacie's ; she seems to know what to expect &amp; what's going to happend next.   If it's the 19th or the 20th century then it is understandable since sex is often talked about.  But in 18th century?  I would guessed she'd be a bit naive when it comes to this topic no matter how well informed she is in terms of investing &amp; business ventures. OR perhaps I am just old fashion &amp; prefers the heroine as naive/innocent when it comes to this area.   The hero, Damen was initially described as a rake, or many woman tossed themselves to him yet there was no scene that showed so nor was there any particular name or woman linked to him, no mistress or even a woman he escorts, etc....  Of course, this are only few of many contradictions and my opinion.  <br />The romance of Anastasia &amp; Damen wasn't detailed nor fully developed. The hero/heroine accepted, acknowledge their feelings of love for each other rather too quickly for me to find it exciting.  The declaration of their love was just too simple &amp; ordinary.  Their love/romance/relationship simply didn't convince me nor did it leave any impression... There was no fire nor challenged whatsoever.  After their meeting &amp; falling in love, the rest of the book then concentrated on solving a mystery.   I felt that this book is more of a mystery novel than a love story.  As for historical romance?  umm, don't think it exactly qualifies as such - maybe a bit of historical but more of contemporary... confusing, isn't it?<br />I am a new historical romance novel reader but I have read more than 40 books in this gender for the past three months ( mostly written by Julie Garwood's, Judith McNaught's, Jude Deveraux's &amp; Jill Barnett's).  In this span of time, I found out my own preferences.  I have learned to know exactly what I like and what to expect in a historical romance stories.  This book simply didn't even come close to that expectation of mine.  Compared to the books of the authors I mentioned, this book looked inferior.   Sorry, nothing personal!  .......HOWEVER, these comments are only my opinion.  Everyone have different taste &amp; preferences.  I read some 5 stars rating here in Amazon about this book too, So...it is always best to find out for yourself.  I suggest you barrow this book in the library to be on the safe side.  Then buy your own copy afterwards - if u find it more than what I have said.   Good luck!	2000-12-09
US	48819053	R3PFW8LH1Y0IXZ	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Sweet, Endearing &amp; Unique...	This is one of J.M's unique novels, which I highly enjoyed.  I have read more than 5 of her books &amp; I say, she writes great stories.  The romance, plot, twist &amp; turns... different every time.  <br />Whitney, My Love... is now one of my favorite books, It's the second of the Westmoreland Series.  The series starts with A KINGDOM OF DREAM, which is my #1, my favorite of all the books I've read by far.  UNTIL YOU is the last of this series.   ( THANKS ambrangel :-) for her help )<br />Aside from the secondary characters of this book like Nikki, The Westmoreland family, Emily, Paul, The Gilberts, etc... who all contributed in making this book even more interesting,  I specially enjoyed Whitney's character the most.  She's everything a heroine in a historical romantic novels should be... beautiful, funny, kind hearted, smart &amp; witty.  Yet, proud, stubborn, bold &amp; spirited.  Since her mother died when she was only 6 years old, she wasn't as refine as most young ladies her age should be.  Whitney Stone speaks her mind freely, does what she wishes before thinking of the consequences that follows her actions. She flaunts &amp; admits her feelings for Paul, her childhood love-friend, openly eversince she can remember.   Her effort to lure Pauls attention &amp; love became a town frolic, embarassing herself &amp; her father.  Her last antic made her father decide to let Whitney live with her aunt &amp; uncle in France, where she stayed &amp; blossomed for years.  With her aunt/uncles love &amp; patience, she was taught the do's &amp; don't's of being a proper lady.  After one year, after her successful debut, she became the attention of eyes of many eligible bachelors esp. Clayton Westmoreland, Duke of Claymore.  Her uncle received many offers for her hand in marriage.  However, Whitney refuse each one.  She believes she's still in love with Paul.  She couldn't wait to go back to her hometown &amp; see Paul again.  She wanted to prove not only to herself but toeveryone in the her hometown, esp. to Paul, that she is worth his love and not just a town hoyden they see her to be. <br />Clayton Westmoreland, 6th Duke of Claymore is rich, handsome &amp; considered the most eligible bachelor of all England (and a rake too).  He was highly sought after by ladies &amp; mothers offers their daughter to him openly.  He could have anyone he desires but wasn't seriously interested until he saw Whitney on her opening debut.  He secretly kept tracked of her for years, seeing her became even more alluring &amp; beautiful in his very eyes.   The increase of Whitney's suitors &amp; offers for her hand in marriage made Clayton decide it's time for him to make his own move. But of course, he is not going to be like a besotted fool by begging for her hand like the others have done.  He is afterall a proud man &amp; a Duke, among other things.  However, since Whitney made it perfectly clear that she is not least impressed with man with titles, Clayton's dukedom hold no help in this matter.  Therefore, he decided to use other ways &amp; means to win Whitney's heart. <br />The schemes, courtship &amp; the challenge of luring Whitney's heart made this book very exciting, amusing &amp; unique.  Whitney's homecoming, esp. her initial meeting with Paul, his reaction (after years of absence), was one of my many favorite scenes in this book.  Whitney's confusions &amp; realization of her true feelings, her wrong choices &amp; the consequences &amp; lastly, the gestures and actions she had to make in order to correct her mistakes made this book absolutely riveting.  This book will surely entertain you from the beginning to the end.  A must read!	2000-12-01
US	48819053	R37ZKRSA5W5A9P	0440207622	163313723	Daddy	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Tear Jerker	I read this book months ago and I decided to scan through the book once again so I can write a fair reviews here in Amazon. Reading DADDY the second time made me appreciate it even more. This is one of the few books I've read &amp; liked that is not a historical romance novel. D.S wrote a very realistic family drama &amp; lotsa hearty circumstances, which can happend to anyone. <br />When Sara left Oliver Watson &amp; the three children to pursue her own dreams, I thought she was merely wanting to go to school. I was sympathetic to her in the beginning because she sacrificed her dreams for Oliver &amp; the children. I thought it wouldn't hurt for her to chase back that dream since the children are &quot;somewhat&quot; grown ups. However, when she decide to ask for TIME for herself &amp; begun to make excuses in seeing the children, I didn't liked that idea at all. Worst, when she wanted a divorce &amp; left the children with Oliver, I hated her. I cannot imagine a mother doing such a thing. Sad! No matter what, she have responsibilities &amp; obligations to the children. Oliver Watson thought he had it all. He was successful in his carreer, had a family, a house... until Sara left him &amp; the children. He then realized how challenging being a full time father could be. It was very difficult in the beginning yet in the end, he found out that his effort was very rewarding. He found happiness &amp; pride in knowing his own kids. He learned from them &amp; not only became a trusted father but a friend as well. I really felt sorry for Oliver in the beginning... but then at the end, I though he was better off with someone who truly loves him &amp; his children-unconditionally. <br />The children in this book was portrayed realistically. Their reactions to the divorce, to their mother &amp; to their father- From guilt to rebellions... fears to hate... then love, trust &amp; acceptance! ...all understandable &amp; very heart quenching! Lots of overwhelming &amp; heart warming scenes in this book. The reason why I didn't rate this book a 5 star was because it was too heavy for me. Too dramatic perhaps. Too sad. Even if it was a happy ending, I still found it too depressing. I prefer a dreamy, romantic-comedy book. Story that sores up my heart &amp; makes me dreamy in the end. I prefer Historical romances. However, if you are the kind of person who prefers sad, tear jerker, true-to-life story, then this is definitely the one for you. I didn't regret reading this one though, so..... Overall, it was a good book.	2000-12-01
US	48819053	R1UN6DT1GABHJZ	0385319568	209908426	The Long Road Home	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Depressing yet Inspiring...	I read this book three or four months ago yet the story is still vivid in my mind.  This is the kind of book that would leave a mark on your heart after reading it, perhaps on your soul too.  Gabby Harrison is a product of bad luck.  Her strings of bad lucks started from when she was born by a selfish, wicked &amp; heartless mother who continuesly abused her ( as in physically-brutally &amp; mentally &amp; emotionally- the WORKS!).  She blames her daughter for every unsatisfaction she had with her life.  Gabby's father, a coward,  was no help whatsoever, he might as well be dead in my opinion.  He sees this abuse happening in his very nose yet says nothing, do nothing to stop it &amp; worst, when he couldn't take it anymore, he simply left Gabby with her mother, went ahead to marry someone else &amp; continued with his life.  What a jerk!   He was described as a weak person even in the beginning of the book yet I was hoping he would take Gabby with him.  He said he loved her daughter &amp; D.S did wrote details of his confusions &amp; horror for his poor daughter, so I had the impression that in the end, he would simply turn around &amp; saved his little girl.  I was devastated when this didn't happend.  Made me cry &amp; hateful.  I really do not like hearing or reading children being abused... let alone by their own parents, so this book was somehow a bit difficult for me to read.  Yes, the description in the back of the book did emphasized Gabby's ordeal with her mother but I didn't think the abuse would be so detailed, it ached my heart &amp; made me squirm.  However, I continue reading it for hope that Gabby would grow up and would find the happiness &amp; good luck she long deserved but the book just gets sadder &amp; sadder... Is there no end to her tragedies?  The poor thing.  She was left to grow up in a convent, fell in love with the wrong person, who I might add was also a coward like his father ( he left her-by killing himself, a priest-i may add, all byherself to deal with an ugly situation they both started).  She was force to leave the convent after that &quot;incident&quot;, living in the real world, no longer in the protection of the convent for the first time in her life.  So you can imagine her fears!  She then again met a wrong person... just her luck.  Who used her, abused her, etc.  It's all overwhelming, frustrating &amp; depressing!  <br />Now, as you can see, despite my above comments, I still rated this book 4 stars.  The reason is simple...  I admired Gabby's strength in all this bad lucks she keeps getting.  Her heart &amp; spirit remained intact despite all this hateful, difficult circumstances she keeps getting herself into.  Her innocence &amp; her capabilities to love &amp; trust despite it all makes this book heart warming.  Her friendship to all the people in the boarding house, esp. the proffessor is also heart warming.  She inspires me by never giving up!  Her courage to lived her life the best way she know how was impressive.  Everytime she fell, she gets right back on her feet.  However tired &amp; broken hearted she may be, she always manage to gather her strength &amp; spirit to move on.  <br />The ending of this book was not as what I expected.  I expected a more happier ending.  A reconciliation or perhaps the parents asking for her forgiveness - I know its kindda impossible but i wished it that way anyway.   Yes, there was a closure to a lot of questions Gabby had for a long time in regards to her parents.  Her meeting with her father was heart quenching.  He's still a jerk!  Gabby's new found love in the end also brought good to her life, though, i wished their relationship was more detailed &amp; developed.   I know this book isn't totally a romance, love story so it is understandable that it didn't concentrate on their relationship much. <br />The reason why I didn't rate this book  5 stars was because it was too heavy for me. Too dramatic perhaps. Too sad. Even if it was a happyending, I still found it too depressing. I prefer a dreamy, romantic-comedy book. Story that sores up my heart &amp; makes me dreamy in the end. I prefer Historical romances. However, if you are the kind of person who prefers sad, tear jerker, true-to-life story, then this is definitely the one for you. I didn't regret reading this one though.  It's different from my usual book picks but... Overall, it was a good book.	2000-11-27
US	48819053	R3FG9D6IMIVOZD	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	A keeper!	Ever since I became a reviewer here in Amazon, I have been lucky in my book reading. I have read so many worthy books in the past month &amp; I owe it to Amazon &amp; the rest of the reviewers! Thanks for your time in sharing your opinions.<br />His grandfather left Alec MacLean, famously known as Viscount &quot;Devil&quot; Hunterston, a lot of fortune before he died. Of course, with an ultimatum... he must marry the daughter of the late Earl of Covington ( before his birthday ) and lived with the society for one year without scandal. If he fails, the fortune will be inherited by his cousin, Nick. Alec had at least 6 months to take care of this matter but he waited the last minute to elope &amp; marry Therese Frant. Then things even gotten worst for him as he mistakenly abduct Therese's cousin, Julia Frant (known as the &quot;Dragon Frant&quot;). He also found out that Therese actually planned to duped him in the altar for Nick. The story gets EVEN better after this....<br /> Known as the bad boy of the high society, a rake &amp; a scoundrel among other things... Alec also possessed a handsome look that Julia admired ever since she first saw him, four years ago. When she offered to help him by marrying him, she really had nothing to loose. She find herself in love with him in the first place, though not yet deep at the time, plus, she wanted to help her charity society group with the money she could get from Ale'c inheritance. She ask for half! I know there are some reviewers who don't like this idea but i think it is realistic. What has love got to do with money if she knows she can put the money in good use rather than Alec squandering it away (with his drinking &amp; gambling &amp; God knows what)? Julia Frant is a prim reformer. She has the tendency of wanting to help everyone, even Alec. She planned to help him with his scoundrel ways... Yet, each day he live with him, the more he sees he is afterall a good hearted man. She finds herself falling deeply in lovewith him while he too couldn't stay away from her. The way Alec seduces Julia is my favorite of all. He is indeed a flirt, A big TEASE! Prim &amp; proper Julia versus rakey Alec... They are both very opposite yet perfect for each other. <br />I was getting tired of a perfect, &quot;VERY&quot; beautiful heroine in books. So, this one was somehow a change. Julia wasn't a perfect beauty. In fact, she wears glasses and described as an old maid... yet she had potentials. Mind you, she was decent &amp; well mannered. It's just her looks &amp; clothing that needed some polishing. With proper help &amp; guidance, she turned into a swan. I like this kind of idea. Despite her change of clothing, her personality remain intact. She was loved and accepted by the &quot;Ton&quot; because of her charming ways &amp; good hearted intentions. This is my first book of Karen Hawkins &amp; (again) won't be the last. I thoroughly enjoyed each page as I read along. The twist &amp; all the secondary characters overwhelmed me. I love them all... Edmund is a doll! Alec's servants, The S.S.W., Mad Maddie, Muck &amp; even Nick. They all contributed in making this book one of a kind. The ending was unexpected to me... It was a good ending too! This book also emphasized that there is good in every one of us. Love &amp; good heart always wins! I hated for this book to end but I heard that there is a sequel, story of Duke of Wexford, Lucien. He is Alec's bestfriend. So of course, I am looking forward for the release of this book in 2001. I hope it contains many updates of Julia &amp; Alec.	2000-11-15
US	48819053	RICPSGCL1CDCL	0380754371	113676068	Dark of the Moon	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Stimulating, exciting &amp; heart warming	I am used to reading Historical Romances written by Julie Garwood &amp; Jude Deveruax that I was quite skeptical about K. Robards in this area. However, since Maggy's Child is one of my favorite books (even if it wasn't a H.R.N.), I thought I'd give Ms. Robards a chance &amp; give this book a try. I am glad I did, as it turned out to be one of the most exciting and heart warming books I've read.<br />When Connor d'Arcy helped a young lad and his friend even after they tried to robbed him, I was already touched by his warm heart. He offered them an honest job, roof on their heads and food on their tables. He meant well and didn't think there will be any trouble when he took them both to Donoughmore... until one of them turned out to be a lass.<br />Caitlyn O'Malley: fiesty in the outside yet frightened in the inside. Even from the beginning, Connor seemed to see through her. He knew she was scared when everyone thinks she's just a hellcat. Despite learning that the lad was actually a lass, Connor still insist she stays with him in Donoughmore instead of her robbing people in Dublin's street and sooner or later get caught &amp; hanged or raped (when her true sex is revealed). After all the hassles and the commotion, She remained in Connor's protection, have learned to trust &amp; loved the d'Arcy family and eventually, grew up to be a lovely lady who became highly seeked for by many young man in the neighboring countryside. The transformation was writtened beautifully. Full of heart warming and exciting details. Some are straight to the point so there is no dragging parts. I specially enjoyed the scene where her true sex was discovered. Right after that, the story just gets better &amp; better. The developing of Caitlyn's feelings for Connor and vise versa was just as lovely. I enjoyed the part when both shows jealousy. Since Caitlyn is not very controlled with her temper, her reactions to jealousy wasn't as subtle. I find her actions &amp; remarks amusing. She is feiry up to the end! There are times Caitlyn seems spoiled, impractical and always wanting her ways but I must say, I really enjoyed her character. She is young and this stubborn flaw of hers makes the book more realistic. I am not usually taken by a too headstrong or too stubborn heroine but K.R. described her well. The way she wrote Caitlyn makes you see through her. Despite her stubborness and feiry temper, she is no match to Connor. This is what I liked about the book. K.R. made sure that Caitlyn's stubborness doesn't overshadow Connor's strength and ability. He still stands as the man. His patience (and I mean, PATIENCE!) made him even more of a MAN. He is gentle with her, understanding, generous, loving and kind. I say, they are both made for each other! Really great love story. The D'Arcy brothers as the secondary characters brought another excitement to this book. I wish K.R. would write sequel books for each brother. Liam, Rory &amp; Cormac! I love them all...even the bitter-mouth Mickeen. Their affection for each other &amp; the story of their childhood/growing up years are all heart warming scenes. This is what family is all about!<br />Aside from the family story &amp; Romance, the action twist of this book is also very unique. None like it so far. It's VERY exciting. A page turner for sure! The JAIL SCENE was the saddest of all...I cried and my heart tightened. I didn't know what to expect after reading this part. I had to pause to think about it for a while. Shamefully, I was tempted to read the back cuz I couldn't contain myself ( But NO I didn't cheat). I was actually praying the book wouldn't be a sad ending. I would be crushed if it is! So, to tell u the least, it is a HAPPY ending. I know this might ruin the thrill for some but I also know that there are lots of people who doesn't like reading a book with a sad ending. I didn't want any reader not to pick this book up for the fear of that. This is my second book of Karen Robards. The first of her historical romance novels. Now, I couldn't wait to read another one of her books. TWO THUMBS UP! This is another good book to add in my collection, One more book to add in my favorites!	2000-11-15
US	48819053	R76WVLTSYW3UU	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	46	61	N	Y	My favorite of all... as of 11/7/2000	This is my first book of Judith McNaught &amp; surely not thelast!  AKOD is simply the best historical romance (or any romancebook) I have ever read so far.  I have never read a book like this...It brought different whirling emotions out of me while reading eachpage. I cried, squirmed, laughed, even jump out of my chair inresponse to many scenes &amp; story twist.  I simply cannot put itdown.  I almost called in sick from work as I stayed up till dawnreading this darn book!  I agree with one of the reviewer here inAmazon, I was like a zombie at work too!  hehe...  I must say thoughthat the effort was pleasingly worth it.  I cannot even understand whythe avg rating here is only 4 1/2.  I say, it deserves more than justa 5... A 10 would be perfect!<br />Jennifer &amp; Royce... both heartwarming couple!  Different yet perfect for one another.  Theirconfusions of love &amp; hate made their love story riveting.  Trapbetween love &amp; loyalty for country also made this story moreexciting.  Just when you begin to feel they start loving &amp;trusting each other, situations/circumstances forces them to makechoices, which often times, lead them back to where they've started -hate &amp; mistrust.  Really exhilarating....  Of course, love wins inthe end ... love set them both free!  <br />I totally disagree with somereviews in regards to Jennifer being so &quot;stupid&quot; for notseeing his family &amp; kin's faults.  For me, it is understandable&amp; her loyalty for them actually makes me admire her more.  Itwould turn me off if she was easily swayed to give up her family &amp;people without even trying... I say this book is more realistic! Yes,she's blind not to see the true color of her father... but regardlessof his mistakes, they are still her family.  She loves her father justlike any daughter would.  She also longed to be accepted &amp; lovedby her people ever since she can remember &amp; when they finally gaveher attention and recognition (which was his father's planjust tomanipulate her), it was difficult for Jennifer not to feel otherwise.Her choices, especially during the tournament made me squirm (i won'ttell what she did, don't want to ruin it for others...) Oh, but Icouldn't believe she did that!  I wasn't disgusted though, I feltsorry for her. I can tell it was a hard decision for her to make,however wrong it might be.  But this is where Judith McNaught reallyproved how she can touch her reader's soul by over turning this badchoice that Jennifer made. J.M.  wrote a wonderful come back at theend of this tournament (again, i won't tell...), which proved thatlove is far greater than pride and even life...  It is simply amazing!<br />Each page of this book contains many exciting scenes.  Amusingscenes: like the &quot;THIS IS FORTY...&quot; scene, her escaping fromcaptivity, the wedding &amp; etc....  Heart warming scenes: WhenJennifer decided the fate of the boy who threw mudcake at her, WhenRoyce acknowledge her to his people, etc....  I can point outnumerous, numerous gestures in this book that really made my hearttwirl such as Jennifer kissing Royce's battle scars, standing in thebalcony together - sharing minds &amp; dreams. There's more, lots more.... but I think it is best for the reader to find it out themselves.I can assure you, this book is really one of a kind.  The one youwouldn't want to miss.  If you are a romance book reader, YOU GATTAHAVE THIS ONE.	2000-11-10
US	48819053	RTONPSGIUOMP4	0843943343	165331901	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	10	10	N	N	READ IN ORDER	This is my second book of Robin Lee Hatcher. My first book of hers was the FOREVER,ROSE. I was deeply taken by that book so I bought the sequels. Had I known earlier that this is a series, I would have read the book in order.  WHERE THE HEART IS, is a lovely beginning of the Americana series.  <br />The Americana series is about a town called Homestead, Idaho. The creation of the town beginning with just few families in small farm houses, one main street and only few stores to it's booming times with railroads and big hotels. I have only read three of the series but so far, it makes me feel like I am in the town itselft. There are many characters aside from the two primary couples. It contains love stories as well as family and neighborly love scenes. People helping one another is heart warming. Like every small town, everyone knows everybody's business and gossips cannot be avoided. Though I find that flaw amusing in many ways. My favorite aside from the romance story is that each book contains many updates of the characters from the previous book. I also enjoy reading books about children and their growing up years especially if they become the couple or the main characters in the next book. It is like keeping track of a mini series in T.V.. This is what makes the series so interesting from the beginning to the end.<br />Will Rider and Addie Sherwood are both interesting couple. Sad to say that because I've read Forever ROSE first, it ruined this first book for me.  I kindda know how the book will run and how it'll end. I even know the action twist, who would die and who would lived as most of the scenes here were given away in the FOREVER, ROSE.   I suggest the reader to read the Americana Series in order. It'll make a huge difference... Had I not read Forever, Rose before this one, I am sure I would find WHERE THE HEART IS exciting and a page turner. That is why I decided it is fair to rate it a 5 star as I still thouroughly enjoyed this book despite me knowingwhat would happend next.  There is so many heart warming scenes...  I specially like reading about Will's affection for Lark.  Lark &amp; Rose (Who will both become the main characters in FOREVER, ROSE) are only 7 &amp; 9 years old in this book but it shows details of the beginning of their friendship. Reading this book will make you appreciate their friendship more when you read FOREVER, ROSE.  It will also make you understand Rose better.<br />Here's the series in sequence: <br />1st: WHERE THE HEART IS ------&gt; 2nd: FOREVER,ROSE --------&gt; 3rd: REMEMBER WHEN ------------&gt; 4th: Kiss me, Katie.<br />Read it and ENJOY!	2000-10-30
US	48819053	R31708925T7ELD	0843946296	504672064	Forever, Rose (Americana (Dorchester Publishing))	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Inspiring &amp; heart warming	This is my first book of Robin Lee Hatcher.   I was deeply taken by it that I bought the sequels.  Had I known earlier that this is a series, I would have read the book in order.   Read WHERE THE HEART IS first before this book.  That way, you will learn more of Rose.  It'll make you understand her more &amp; you will appreciate her friendship with Lark more deeply.  Naturally, reading the first book of the series gave more impact on this one.  Read in order: It'll make a huge difference.   <br />Here's the series in sequence: <br />1st: WHERE THE HEART IS ------&gt; 2nd: FOREVER,ROSE --------&gt;  3rd: REMEMBER WHEN ------------&gt; 4th: Kiss me, Katie. <br />I have read many sequel books and normally, the second/third books of any sequel novels aren't as good as the first one anymore.  Even though I haven't read the whole series yet (one more to go) I think it is fair to say that I find all three books satisfying. Each book gets better &amp; better. <br />The Americana series is about a town called Homestead, Idaho.  The creation of the town beginning with just few families in small farm houses, one main street and only few stores to it's booming times with railroads and big hotels.  I have only read three of the series but so far, it makes me feel like I am in the town itselft.  There are many characters aside from the two primary couples. It contains love stories as well as family and neighborly love scenes. People helping one another is heart warming.  Like every small town, everyone knows everybody's business and gossips cannot be avoided.  Though I find that flaw amusing in many ways.  My favorite aside from the romance story is that the each book contains many updates of the characters from the previous book.  I also enjoy reading books about children and their growing up years especially if they become the couple or the main characters in the next book.  It is like keeping track of a mini series in T.V.. This is what makes the series so interesting from thebeginning to the end.  <br />Rose Townsend is brave &amp; feisty in the outside yet scared &amp; lonely in the inside.  Her ugly past have lots to do with her insecurities and fears yet this never sways her from being unselfish &amp; loving.  Her spirit and heart remains intact despite her ugly childhood.   She's a fighter with warm heart in every way.  This is what makes me admire her most but at the same time, i feel sorry for her sadness.  Michael Rafferty's childhood was far better than Roses.  He was more fortunate &amp; privileged.  Living in a mansion with butlers, cooks &amp; maids.  A father who cares and a stepmother who treats him fairly and with love...  yet he was eaten with hatred towards his half brother.   Money &amp; his father's Palace Hotels was the only thing that really mattered to him until he met Rose.  With all the comfort &amp; the money he had, he never found and felt the true happiness &amp; contentment of life.  Rose showed him that money can't buy it all. They both deserve each other &amp; the happiness they brought upon one another.  Lark Rider's friendship with Rose and her love story with Yancy Jones also added a touch of uniqueness in this book. I've read this book twice &amp; my response is even better than the first. This book &amp; the series will be a great addition to your collection.	2000-10-29
US	48819053	RVDXASK9R1NK1	0843947098	809771287	Remember When	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Inspiring &amp; heart warming	This is my third book of Robin Lee Hatcher.  My first book of hers was the FOREVER, ROSE.  I was deeply taken by that book so I bought the sequels.  Had I known earlier that this is a series, I would have read the book in order.  Anyway, much to my surprise, REMEMBER WHEN is even better, it's more heart warming than the FOREVER ROSE &amp; WHERE THE HEART IS.  Reading the first two books of course, gave more impact on this one.   I am now in the process of reading Kiss me, Katie.   I suggest the reader to read the Americana Series in order. It'll make a huge difference.   <br />Here's the series in sequence: <br />1st: WHERE THE HEART IS ------&gt; 2nd: FOREVER,ROSE --------&gt;  3rd: REMEMBER WHEN ------------&gt; 4th: Kiss me, Katie. <br />I have read many sequel books and normally, the second/third books of any sequel novels aren't as good as the first one anymore.  Even though I haven't read the whole series yet (one more to go), I think it is now fair to say that I find all three books satisfying.  Each book gets better, story get more exciting. <br />The Americana series is about a town called Homestead, Idaho.  The creation of the town beginning with just few families in small farm houses, one main street and only few stores to it's booming times with railroads and big hotels.  I have only read three of the series but so far, it makes me feel like I am in the town itself.  There are many characters aside from the two primary couples. It contains love stories as well as family and neighborly love scenes. Many heart warming scenes of people helping one another.  Like every small town, everyone knows everybody's business and gossips cannot be avoided.  Though I find that flaw amusing in many ways.  My favorite aside from the romance story is that each book contains many updates of the characters from the previous book.  I also enjoy reading books about children and their growing up years especially if they become the couple in the next book.  It is like keeping track of a mini series in T.V.. This is what makes the series so interesting from the beginning to the end.  <br />REMEMBER WHEN is a love story of Tom/Fanny and Sara/Jeremiah. The way R.L.H wrote their romance is simply inspiring.  Started out as friends developing into something special. I specially like the way R.L.H wrote Jeremiah.  The more you read, the more you understand his fears of loving again. Meanwhile, here's Sara reaching out to him. Tom's unconditional friendship then love for Fanny, who was first judged by most town people for working in the Pony Saloon.  Then later, the acceptance. The unusual circumstances &amp; the twist of story makes this book more exciting. Tom &amp; Sara's brother-sister realtionship gave an additional warmth to this book.  I had to finish it in one sitting.  Otherwise, it'll leave me thinking about it the whole day. GET IT &amp; READ IT!	2000-10-29
US	48819053	R2E6YG564TF656	067189109X	28431139	The Blessing	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Too bad!	I really hate giving low ratings on any book especially if it is written by one of my favorite author.  However, this book simply gave me too many questions from front to end.  I kept reading on to see if any of my questions would somehow be answered or perhaps my confusions be explained but yet the more I read, the more questions popped to my mind. I do like the herione, Amy.  Her motherhood was heart warming. Her personality fitting. I am not sure about Jason, the hero.  He wasn't well defined to fit my taste.  The story wasn't detailed. The ending didn't leave any impact on me whatsoever.  Although, there were one or two funny scenes and a couple more exciting twist, there is something quite not right about this book.  I don't know exactly how to described it.  Perhaps I just expected more out of this book considering it is written by J.D., one of my favorite authors. Reading the reviews here in Amazon,  I must admit to agree that there were many scenes quite unrealistic in THE BLESSING...  Buy the whole baby store just to scheme in giving the person one baby bedroom set?  Buy the whole clothes store just to give away one Dior dress?  Oh now....  There should be another way!  ...another more realistic ways.   I don't care how rich he is.  It isn't practical. You'd know what I mean if and when you decide to read the book.  I suggest barrowing it in the library instead of buying/keeping it in your collection. I also couldn't believe that a wealthy guy like Jason, from NY of all places, couldn't hire a right professional investigator to find Amy.  Ok, she used her maiden name but isn't this the first thing investigator look into?  I am always very open minded when I read my books.  I'd like to let my imagination run free.  I like to fantasize and I am normally good in dealing with far fetch plots. I don't even read between the lines because I like to explore all angles and possibilities...yet, somehow, this book didn't simply touch that part of me.  Too bad!  I really would have love to give this book higher rating but a 2 stars right now is even more generous.	2000-10-25
US	48819053	R3KISAQ2QRTMAX	0440220769	581656459	Once Upon a Dream	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A must have, A must read &amp; A keeper!	Ah, this book is marvelous. Yes, it's another Cinderella story... and much much more!  <br />Despite the fact that everyone have already read/heard about the Cinderella story, I still suggest you take time in reading this book as it is worth it... That is if you are the kind of person to let your imaginations run free.  I was first hesistant myself but I am glad I bought it and read it.  Katherine Kingsley added more  twist into this famous story, which makes it more appealing, more exciting.  The characters she portrayed are more realistic and well formed. She took time in describing the characters to its full impact.  Not just a simple prince and princess in love!  There is more into each characters - even the secondary ones.  The romance and love story.... also well designed. The whole plot have more spices, more adventurous.  I don't know what else to say about this book without foretelling and ruining it to those who haven't read it yet.  I can assure you that there will be many amusing &amp; unexpected scenes compared to the simple cinderella story we once heard and read.  This book was beautifully writtened, it left me day dreaming all day after I read it.  Embarassing but true!  Enjoy!	2000-10-25
US	48819053	R3A5JMYJ5ZZAB4	0440220769	581656459	Once Upon a Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A must have, A must read &amp; A keeper!	Ah, this book is marvelous. Yes, it's another Cinderella story... and much much more!  <br />Despite the fact that everyone have already read/heard about the Cinderella story, I still suggest you take time in reading this book as it is worth it... That is if you are the kind of person to let your imaginations run free.  I was first hesistant myself but I am glad I bought it and read it.  Katherine Kingsley added more  twist into this famous story, which makes it more appealing, more exciting.  The characters she portrayed are more realistic and well formed. She took time in describing the characters to its full impact.  Not just a simple prince and princess in love!  There is more into each characters - even the secondary ones.  The romance and love story.... also well designed. The whole plot have more spices, more adventurous.  I don't know what else to say about this book without foretelling and ruining it to those who haven't read it yet.  I can assure you that there will be many amusing &amp; unexpected scenes compared to the simple cinderella story we once heard and read.  This book was beautifully writtened, it left me day dreaming all day after I read it.  Embarassing but true!  Enjoy!	2000-10-25
US	48819053	R3OVWNRT0DRQHV	0671003348	937988197	Come the Spring (Clayborne Brothers)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Somewhat entertaining.... no regrets!	After reading some of the reviews here in Amazon about this book, I was a bit hesistant in starting it.  However, I felt obligated as it is part of the series.  Afterall, I started the book, For the Roses, which is the first novel of the Clayborne series &amp; which was also one of my favorite J.G. books.  I read it with open mind.  I actually didn't even expect much out of this book because of the reviews.  I guess you can say I didn't want to be disappointed.  In the end, the book wasn't too bad. Perhaps because I was prepared for it? Though I must admit, I had to skip some parts to get to the point.  I had to &quot;read-through&quot; some pages as I find some scenes dragging.  Mind you, the action twist was interesting.  The suspense and the excitement of finding out who the true witness is and the three beautiful female leads, which was all uniquely described.  I just wished this book was more of Cole and the Clayborne family since this is what the series started out to be. I also prefer  ROMANTIC &amp; LOVE scenes.  I find this book more of an action scenes - robbery, murder, crime scenes.  It's just not for me.  But... like i said, it wasn't too bad.  It's still entertaining.  I finished the book so that is an indication that it wasn't dreadfully boring.  If you started &quot;For the Roses&quot;, then you must go through with the whole program.  No regrets!	2000-10-14
US	48819053	R2GU2I8LK3WO55	067102177X	318818313	The Clayborne Brides: One Pink Rose / One White Rose / One Red Rose (3 Books in 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Overall, a good book!	I rated all 3 books a 4 stars.  It contains several exciting twist &amp; few amusing scenes.  All three love stories are romantically well writtened. I didn't think it was rushed... Although, the romance wasn't as detailed as I expected it to be, it's still well balanced and well designed.  <br />The only missing part in this 3 books are the rest of the CLAYBORNE family. There was only very few scenes mentioned of them.  I was expecting at least a bit more on MAMA ROSE.  She was one of the important characters in the book, FOR THE ROSES (the beginning of this series).  When this first book ended, I read that she's finally coming home, I thought to read more about her in this second series.  I was somewhat disappointed that she was only mentioned passingly.  There was no conversation with her children nor any updates of how the reunion went about.  I would imagine the initial reunion (after 20 years) would be a heart warming read.  Nevertheless, The Claynorne Brides are worth the buy and your time.  A relaxing read!	2000-10-13
US	48819053	R1GCC57U5464DR	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Worth your time... READ!	Nicholaa &amp; Royce love story was somewhat slow in the beginning yet practical, given to their situation &amp; description of characters.   Considering how they met and the different belief of values, it is understandable that both needed more time to trust, adjust to each other... then love.  Nicholaa's character is described as a strong, stubborn, bold, intelligent &amp; self assured woman.  Royce is once again a true warrior in every way.  Honorable, practical, disciplined, patient &amp; set to himself.  He defines everything in his life as a map, all set &amp; drawned out.  Both are equally independent until they met.... they have to realized and show they needed each other too!  <br />Aside from the love, romance of Nicholaa and Royce, my second favorite part of this book is Nicholaa's youngest brother, Justin.  His transformation and Royce patience was exciting and interesting.  Their casual relationship of Baron to Vassel then progressing into a brotherly affection made my heart quenched.  I actually cried reading Justin's accomplishments.  I wish J.G. would write a book just for him.  I was also touched reading about the other characters who have helped Justin's transformation.  They were all patient and compassionate.  Developing a lifetime friendship also made this book more appealing and heart warming. <br />Front front to end, this book gives me so much pleasure, I was saddened when I saw few more pages left.  I didn't want this story to end.	2000-10-11
US	48819053	R3CEDCLIZQK73W	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	5	107	117	N	N	One of J.G's best...again!	For me, this book is one of Julie Garwood's many best novels.  I have read more than 10 of her books yet each time, it's a new different adventure.  Yes, I agree that she sometimes described her herione pretty much with the same physical descriptions such as freckles in noses, smells like roses, etc...  However, I find this flaw rather inciting. <br />Madelyne's strength, courage, patience and love for others simply captivated me to read on.  Despite all the miserable times she had encountered during her growing up years, she still manages to keep her heart &amp; spirit intact.  Even after all the beatings and living life without a mother and a father, she still counted and appreciated her one single blessing of having an uncle who loved her.  She doesn't dwell on the past, doesn't hold onto hate... and what's even more amazing is her unselfish side of wanting to help others find peace and happiness.   Duncan is a true warrior in every way.  He's honorable &amp; patient. Practical &amp; very disciplined...until love sinked in, and that's when practicality &amp; disciplined became somewhat a burden.<br />The slow realization and acceptance of love between the two was simply perfect.  Each scenes, little gestures of passions made this book irrisistible.  There are many heart warming and humorous scenes in this book as well... The warming of Duncan's feet, the wedding, the learning of archery, the finding of the WOLF, the beginning of friendship with Duncan's sister, Adela &amp; a whole lot more.  I could go on and on but I don't want to give it all away here for those who haven't read it yet. Oh, I must add that I find Madelyne's clumsiness entertaining. The secondary characters all contributed to make this book worth reading for as well.  Perhaps J.G. will write a sequel or a seperate book for Duncan's brothers and Adela's love story?   The family twist and complications added spice and thrill from front to end.  A must read &amp; a keeper!	2000-10-11
US	48819053	R41HE6ZD389ZY	0671670069	631599251	Guardian Angel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not a 5 star rating but still a good book...	This book is the second book of a series of four: The series begins with the Lion's Lady, followed by The Guardian Angel, then The Gift and lastly, Castles. The characters in all 4 books are friends/related to each other. It is more fitting if you know each character before reading the next book. If you read it in this order, I think it will bring more excitement as some questions are answered on the later book. Some secrets are also revealed beforehence. <br />The reason why I didn't give this book a 5 star rating was because the love story of Cain and Sara wasn't as appealing as I thought it was in the beginning.  They were both interesting at first (how they met, their personality and how the story moved along) but the action twist over shadowed their romantic relationship.  Towards the middle &amp; to the end, their relationship begun to sound too 'ordinary' for my taste.   There was no more excitement... kindda like I knew what was gonna happend next. The romance wasn't as heart warming as i expected it to be.  <br />Despite my above comment, I find the action twist of this book rather exciting.  The true identity of Pagan, which I may say was a total surprise to me.  The suspense of an unexpected turn of situations and scenes, all made this book a page turner.  All the secondary characters such as Sara's brother (Nathan-who will be the hero in THE GIFT), Cain's brother (Colin-who will be the hero in CASTLE), the family and the ship crews contributed a lot in making this book worth reading for.<br />It may not be a 5 star rating for me but it is definitely still a good book to past your time.  Also, a keeper in your collection.	2000-10-10
US	48819053	R1Z61DLV8NJFY1	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	12	13	N	N	top 3 of my favorite books of all times	Wow!  This book is definitely a keeper!  I have reread this more than 5 times and still get the same reaction.  It is excitingly a page turner.  This book brings about all sorts of emotions, from the beginning to the end, no boring scenes whatsoever!  The friendship of Frances Catherine &amp; Judith is impressively well designed. The adjustment of Judith to the Highland ways &amp; how the people reacted to her was surely a roller coster, mixed emotions-which I find utterly heart quenching.  Of couse, not to forget the hero/heroine... The love story of Iain &amp; Judith completely warms my heart, they are both different yet perfect for each other.  Even the secondary characters, all uniquely described and well written.  The friendships, trust &amp; loyalty, the love and acceptance...all made this book a perfect 10.  5 stars rating is simply an understatement.  J.G. have outdone herself this time! <br />Sequel: RANSOM - Another perfect story. A must read after SECRET.<br />Note: I would like to enumerate some scenes that makes this book a perfect 10 for me but it's not fair to mention only one or even two, as I find all situations/scenes, even the smallest of all.... interesting, hilarious, exciting, tear jerker &amp; endearing in its own magical ways. This book is worth your time! READ IT.	2000-10-08
US	48819053	R2N2GH6SVA4KV5	0671689746	642069685	Sweet Liar	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Intriguing...	In my opinion, the whole story &amp; plot of this book is simply intriguing.  Makes me turn each page with suspense... I especially wanted to know the true account of the night of April,1928 that changed the lives of Samantha &amp; her family.  The search for her grandmother and the emotional roller coster made me cry.  The love story of Sam &amp; Mike are both sweet &amp; heart warming.  Sam's slow realization of herself &amp; the transformation into her true identity is somewhat frustrating, sad, interesting then relief follow.  Mike's love and patience to help her in any way he can is just as heart warming.  I am a fan of the Montgomery Saga (as well as the Taggert) eversince I read the Velvet series, that is why the mention of the Montgomeries (&amp; Taggert family) also made the book more interesting. If you are a J.D. fan &amp; have enjoyed reading about the Montgomeries &amp; Taggert in her previous books, then this is one you have to read.  It contains many lovely characters.  She even mentioned updates of previous couples from her other books stories.  The family helping each other also made it more appealing to my taste.  A keeper!	2000-10-08
US	48819053	R8RKIQDGRMKBF	067187098X	887324024	For the Roses	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Stimulating &amp; Endearing...	&quot;Blood is thicker than water&quot;... but it isn't the case in this endearing book.  For the Roses surely proved that a family can be strongly bonded through the years of love and taking care of each other.  Family can be create not only formed by blood.  Aside from the family values, the romantic story of Rose &amp; Harrison added spice to the whole book. Mary Rose's discovery of her real father and their initial meeting was a tear jerker. I was once again in tears when I read the part of Mary Rose adjusting to her new family.  J.G. described each scenes and emotions so perfectly that I feel like I am part of the book itself.  I have many favorite scenes in this book but I have to hold back telling it, otherwise, I will give it away and ruined it for those who haven't read the book just yet.<br />I have read more than 10 of J.G.'s books and this is definitely one of my favorite.  I am now in the third novel of the Clayborne Brides, which is part of this series.  So far, I am not disappointed... here is how the series follows:   For the Roses -----then--------&gt; Clayborne Brides: 1st novel: One Pink Rose                   2nd novel: One While Rose                   3rd novel: One Red Rose ------last----------&gt; Come the Spring<br />Hope that helps, Enjoy!	2000-10-08
US	48819053	R1U1CVH0HEKLWW	0440208300	800080680	Maggy's Child	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Heart warming...  exciting too.	This is the first book I've read by Karen Robards.  My friend lend me this book and as soon as I was finished, I had to get one copy for myself.  I reread it twice and still had the same reaction.  This is definitely in one of my favorite book collection.  I was specially touched by the unique closeness of Nick and Maggy.  The strong bond that started way back when they were young are impressive and heart quenching.  My heart ached reading about their past together, though. About the poor times!  Lack of food &amp; clothes... Yet, Nick tried to take care of her and provided for her then - in any way and any means he can.  The action twist is exciting and unexpected.  It adds spice to the story.  Maggy's choice to sacrifice love for his son's future is depressingly sad.  Some parts are tear jerker but it leaves you contented in the end.  It is a warm &amp; happy ending.	2000-09-30
US	48819053	R3OGTP0V2IFZFR	0446605697	153374809	Hidden Fires	Books	5	30	33	N	N	perfect &amp; realistic characters	This is my first American Historical Romance book &amp; my first of Sandra Brown's as well.  I am happy to say that I am not disappointed at all!  This book kept me up most of the night. The story is so exciting, each page makes me squirm in wonder to read what's next. In the beginning, I was frustrated in Jared's attitude towards the sweet, beautiful &amp; innocent Lauren. Eventually, as I read along, I understood his indifference towards her, yet I still feel sorry for Lauren.  I was relieved to see improvements in their relationship as the story progressed... this is also when the love story twist becomes heart warming.   This book doesn't only concentrate on the hero/heroine alone.  It contains many unique characters that surrounds the couple.  Each character is described realistically &amp; it makes you understand the hero more... In my opinion, the  additional interesting characters makes the book more appealing. I can't wait to read more of SB's book.  This one is definitely one of my best books to reread many times in the future.	2000-09-30
US	48819053	R3PZ2X6BOHJCXE	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of JG's best...	This book is the third story sequel:   I suggest to start with the Lion's Lady, then The Guardian Angel, The Gift and lastly, read Castles. The characters in all 4 books are friends/related to each other. It is more fitting if you know each character before reading the next book. If you read it in this order, I think it will bring more excitement as some questions are answered on the later book. Some secrets are also revealed beforehence.  <br />The heroine, Sara, is not a whiner in my opinion.  When she was but a little girl, she  was described as awkward and clumsy, who fortunately, (or unfortunately, depending on the reader) has only outgrown that flaw just a little bit. However, in my opinion, her clumsiness are humorous and somewhat sweet. That made me enjoy this book even more. It is the spice of this book.  Since, she was married to Nathan as a child, growing up, she have already condition herself as a WIFE.  Even when she hasn't seen him for over 10 years, and even after her family insist on her that Nathan is an enemy, somehow, deep inside of her heart, She longed for love and acceptance from her long lost husband, especially since she didn't get such at home.   She kept waiting for him to finally come and collect her.  The collection part was also hilarious.  That's when the fun began... <br />The hero, Nathan, is so manly.  Too manly that he doesn't even know a single terms of endearment to call his wife.  He's never been in a serious relationship, therefore, know nothing above loving a woman.  The learning begins with both of them.  He decided he can control the situation, being married to Sara shouldn't be all that hard, afterall, he's always been a controlled, discipline man.  Or so he thought...  <br />The patience of learning about one other...  The adjustment of each other's character, routine and lives... the acceptance and finally, the love...all made this book compelling.  Sara's determination to be accepted not only by her husband but by his staff on board was the funniest moments of all.  She means well, plans well.... but......  Aw~!   It does embarrass me reading about her parasols and her accidents.  I had to stop my reading, close my eyes and cover my face every incident.  After I gather myself together &amp; get over my embarassment, i continue reading, praying she doesn't get into another &quot;INCIDENT&quot; again.  If I get to react this way about a book, I believe it is worth the buy and worth my time.	2000-09-29
US	48819053	R2SPLY9AG9KB3V	0671744208	407222975	Castles	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Read in order for more effect....	Before reading Castles, I suggest to start with the Lion's Lady, then The Guardian Angel, The Gift and lastly, read Castles.  The characters in all 4 books are friends/related to each other.  It is more fitting if you know each character before reading the next book.  If you read it in this order, I think it will bring more excitement as some questions are answered on the later book. Some secrets are also revealed beforehence.  <br />Castle is a story of Colin, who is the younger brother of Caine (in The Guardian Angel) and a troubled Princess Alesandra, who is the ward of the Duke of Williamshire, Colin and Caine's father.  Alesandra was searching for a good husband in three weeks time, to save her from marrying a ruthless General, who wanted to marry her only for the throne.  I find the search very enjoyable.  The list of every noble and available earls and Dukes names... and of course, the dipping of ink to cross each one off, as Colin finds each name in the list horrobly inappropriate. This is my favorite part.  I find the herione funny yet unselfsih, charming and regal. Even in her frustrations and anger, mostly of Colin, she manage to remind herself &quot;Dignity &amp; Decorum&quot;.  She is afterall a princess.  Her obsession of LISTING everything in a notecard is also quite amusing.  Colin is a proud yet somewhat a sensitive man.  The best way to describe him is to compare him to a wild horse that needed to be tamed. Alesandra did just that with love and patience.  Flannagan, the butler, is also one of my favorite character in this book.  The Romance between the two is perfectly match.  There are just so many interesting and funny scenes. I don't want to give it all away so you have to pick up the book to find out yourself.  It is worth your time.  The whole family helping each other to solve a mystery crime is also thrilling and heart warming. Although, i wished Nathan and Jade (in the Gift), Lyon and Christina (in The Lion's Lady) are mentioned more in this book, I still love it and will keep it in my collection.  I have reread it more than once and still have the same reactions.	2000-09-22
US	48819053	R1URM9EB16LB3H	0671705091	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Time travel? A great plot!	This book was so interesting from front to end, i couldn't put it down. Each page makes you wonder about the next... I finished this book all in one night... I was yawning at work the next day.  So I suggest, reading it during the day or when you don't have to work the next day.  So far, It is one of the most intriguing love story I have ever read.  At first, I didn't think I would enjoy time travel plot but as I read along, I got more into it.  This book was amazingly written and described. It makes you feel as if you are inside the book itself.  There were lots of funny scenes, Nicholas thoughts and ways of adjusting to the 19th century makes me laugh so hard yet I feel sorry for him too.  Same reaction for Dougless when she went back t the 16th century.  Dougless morning shower is what i like the best.  The romance is very well written under such circumstances. However,  I wished Dougless ended up with the Earl of Thornwyck's (Nicholas) descendants.  That would really show that insensitive ex fiancee of hers.  Overall, a rate the book a 10.	2000-09-21
US	48819053	R8EEAE8DMH6QE	0671004131	150861299	Wild	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not too bad...	I have read all of JB's medieval triology, my favorite is Wicked.  In this book, I didn't particularly enjoy Roger's character. There seems to be  something missing, especially after reading about him in Wonderful.  However, the heroine, Teleri, intrigued me.  I liked her boldness and  innocence at the same time. I also enjoyed Teleri's grandmother, Old G...   I felt sorry for Teleri when the children threw stones at her.  I was glad  Roger straighten that out for her too.  The book overall, have some funny  parts and romance but wasn't as heart quenching as I thought it would be.   I bought and kept this book only because it is part of a trilogy and part  of WICKED, which I enjoyed most of all.	2000-09-20
US	48819053	R3AAW5K3DS3ICJ	0671004123	199011881	Wonderful	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny and an easy read...	I have read the JB's medieval trilogy and enjoyed WICKED most of all.  However this book is just as heart warming.  Clio and Merrick are  interesting couple.  I enjoyed how clio gets into so much mischief and how  she was able to brought about joy in Merricks dull life.  He was use to  fighting battles and planning siege all his life but now, with Clio, his  life was a complete adventure.  Thud and Twack is also one of my favorite  character and of course, the famous Tobin De Clare who became the hero in  WICKED. A keeper!	2000-09-20
US	48819053	R1PWI314LUJLSA	0671739751	335874452	Velvet Song	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Easy read.....	I read all Velvet series... my favorite of all is the first book, Velvet  Promise.  In that book, it described Raine as a strong yet sensitive man.   He was practically Judith's (the heroine in Velvet Promise) champion.  He  speaks for Judith when needed to and defended her at all times.  He was  also a man of honor and of practical thinking.  He was sweet and charming  too.  I really liked Raine very much in the first book.  So naurally, in  this book, I also expected him to be the same.  However, the Raine in  Velvet Song became engrossed with revenge and too much pride.  Though, it  was emphasized that he became a changed, &quot;different&quot; man after  the awful incident of her sister's kidnapping, rape and death.  I still  prefer him to be level headed as described in the first book. Truthfully,  One of the reasons why I finished this book was to read more of Judith and  Gavin.  I like to read updates about them with their baby.  Also, I was  sorta obligated to read it as it is part of the series.  I must say though  that the story is quite interesting as soon as you get the hang of it.  It  is an easy read but it didn't really bring different emotions out for me to  enjoy it thoroughly (compared to Velvet Promise).  Perhaps I should read it  again to get more positive feedback out of it.  Perhaps....	2000-09-19
US	48819053	R1PP33JAAVLGFA	0671739743	598069709	The Velvet Promise	Books	5	11	15	N	N	My Favorite of all Velvet Series	I have read all velvet series and i have come to my own conclusion that  this is the best of all four.  It brought about all possible emotions u can  think of out of me while reading this book.  Gavin made me furious in the  beginning!  He is a fool. Yet, in reality, this things happend.  Love does  make us blind, somtimes.  For years, Alice was an epitome of a woman Gavin  wanted her to be. What's worst, Alice did her part well too.  Witch! :-)   She makes me sick, disgusted.  Gavin is not one of my favorite historical  romance heroes but in the end, i liked him better than in the beginning.   As for Judith - Ugh, there are times, She makes me so mad, i had to throw  the book...then i cannot wait to pick it up again. hehehe.   Why does she  put up with this man?  Then, I feel sorry for her.  Pity.  She is  confusingly in love and wanted to make her marriage work.  By the time, i  get really frustrated with her, she shows strength and courage.  She never  once lost her self esteem.  She does what she believes is right and fights  for her belief too. She is innocent and always true to herself.  No  pretentious.  I ended up admiring her. She is definitely one of my favorite  heroines of all times.  This book is so exciting from front to end.  I have  many many favorite parts in this book, like for instance, when Judith gave  a FAVOR to Gavin during a tournament and I love their wedding ceremony, how  they were attracted to each other at first sight, though i wished the  bedding part was more romantic than a forceful act.  It was afterall, her  first time.  Well, I do not want to give it all away here.  The book will  surely set fires in your heart, soul and body.  It will make u so mad, sad,  frustrated, depressed then happy and relieved.  It will make you cry,  scream and laugh. This is the kind of book you wouldn't want to miss.  A  keeper in your collection.	2000-09-19
US	48819053	R3ICNZ44PRGMLK	0671739735	902935920	Velvet Angel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Riveting Closure to the Velvet Series	I read all Velvet series... my favorite of all is the first book, Velvet  Promise. However, this book, Velvet Angel, also captured my heart. I was  always intrigue by this &quot;Miles&quot; character ever since I read the  Velvet Promise.  He was described as a handsome, silent, mysterious and  have the ability to seduce woman kindda guy. He was also supposedly loved  by all woman.  So, it was excitingly interesting for me to read his ways of  seducing Elizabeth.  Especially, when she was being stubbornly difficult.   I like the way Miles finally used his first born son to capture Elizabeth's  heart.  It worked too!  ..until he got busted! I have many favorite parts  of this book but the ending was memorably funny.  The Montgomery brothers  and their wives all together, helping each other was heart warming.  That  is what family is all about!  I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  In the  beginning it contains fear, hate, revenge, distrust and sadness but in the  end it is full of love, trust, understanding &amp; forgivness - A riveting  end to the Velvet series.	2000-09-19
US	48819053	RHV9BVSFJ449K	0671744623	872452071	The Heiress	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of her best!	I was drawn to this book because I have read all velvet series and enjoyed  the Montgomeries.  I also was excited to know who amongst the brothers  Jaime Montgomery belonged to. I was hoping to read more updates on the  velvet's series family.  Sad to say, the book did mentioned Jaime's father  but with no name nor did it mention any velvet brothers.  Nevertheless, I  have enjoyed this love story very much.  I didn't regret buying it.  The  confusions of love, pride and honor made the book interesting from front to  end. The choice between Jaime's sisters comfort and love for a woman made  it also even more compelling.  Jude Deveraux describes each thoughts &amp;  emotions with great impact. This book not only made me laugh but it made me  cry as well. The letter from Axia's father was heart quenching in the end.   It was the least I expected.  I do not want to give it away for those who  haven't read it.   A must buy and a keeper.	2000-09-19
US	48819053	R10BEHAG2KL11L	0671739727	635712327	Highland Velvet	Books	2	19	27	N	N	Bronwyn, Bronwyn....	I have read all of the Velvet series and the first book is my favorite,  Velvet Promise.  This, Highland Velvet, is the worst of all four in my  opinion. It's not that I didn't like Jude Deveraux's way of writing... no,  no.  She is a great writer, an exemptional writer. She is one of my  favorite historical romance write.  It is Bronwyn who annoys me so.  I am  sure this is how JD really wanted this character to be.  Some might find it  quite intriguing but i just didn't see it that way.  Bronwyn is simply just  too much for me.  She is selfish, VERY demanding and rough.  Unfeminine for  my taste. It is ok to be strong and courageous yet I believe she should  have some degree left for her husbands pride, otherwise, he looks like a  sissy. She humiliate him in front of his men and her clan as well. Yet, he  continued to pursue her and continue to prove himself to her and her clan.   Poor stephen!  He did everything he could to show his love, He did  everything to gain her trust and love in return.  He transformed from an  Englishman warrior to a scottish warrior just for her.  He wore her colors  yet she is not content.  Even Stephen's brothers and Judith showed her  respect and compassion yet she refuse to yield.  She just hates Englishman!   She have too much hate in her heart. Not appealing to me. The constant  bickering and complaining isn't funny anymore. Stephen even changed his  last name!  I didn't like the idea of Stephen changing his whole  personality and his opinion on almost everything just to pacify her.  I  believe she should have accepted him and love him just the way he does for  her.  Ok, perhaps some changes but not too the full extent.  It was sad to  see the Stephen, who was strong, smart and honorable man in Velvet Promise  turned into a milktoast here in Highland Velvet.  What happend to that guy?   love!  Tsk!   Too much for me to take.  sorry.  I only have this book in  my collection because it is part of the Velvet Series which is of course,  one of my best series books.	2000-09-19
US	48819053	R18BPBX1SDQ0JU	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wicked....Wild &amp; Wondeful	I read Jill Barnett's medieval trilogy and I love this one the most.  Although, after reading the first two, I saw quite a bit of mistakes...  like for instance, Jill described Tobin De Clare as a blonde boy in  Wonderful yet in Wicked, he described him having a raven black hair...   There are also other typos and misdescription.  However, I have enjoyed the  book so much that the mistakes didn't seems too big of a deal.  I read this  book all in one sitting... i couldn't put it down.  I laughed out loud many  times. I was also almost in tears once or twice.  This is the kind of book  I like.  It is exciting where in many times I was tempted to browse-read it  or even skip some part just to see what's gonna happend next (no, i didn't  skip, i know i'll miss out if I do!). Anyway, I read the negative reviews  of couple of people about this book and I just laughed at their opinion.  I  think they need to reread the book so they will understand more of it.   Perhaps read the two, Wonderful and Wild. One person mention that most  scenes in this book are &quot;far-fetch&quot; as she puts it... I think  that each imagination always runs free whenever u read a book esp a Romance  story.  You do not have to always read between the lines and seriously  calculating each scene.  For heaven sake, its a book...enjoy it!  One  person also mentioned that she loves Christina Dodd's  &quot;OUTRAGEOUS&quot; book compared to this Wicked by Jill B.. she  mentioned she was spoiled by this book... Haha... IT shows how poor her  taste is.  Look into that book via Amazon and read the reviews, it is  humiliating.  Anyway, I admit this book have some flaws but it still leaves  my heart warm after reading it.  I enjoyed it and I believe all should have  this book or at least read it.  Enjoy!	2000-08-22
