US	48846257	R24XSLF07ELPQQ	0805077545	899329312	Faith at War: A Journey on the Frontlines of Islam, from Baghdad to Timbuktu	Books	5	20	31	N	Y	Yaro Trofimov's illustration of why the WSJ is an outstanding newspaper	If one only reads the editorial page of the WSJ, one would never expect it to be or call this one of the world's great newspapers. Trofimov is one of the Journal's star reporters and has written an outstanding travelogue of one of the truly exotic regions of the world, countries no longer open to or safe for Americans.  He expertly demonstrates why George W. Bush has made a major portion of the worlds people, not only Muslims, hate the American Government and the American military.  Once the United States was viewed by a major percentage of the people as \\"the last best hope of mankind.\\"  George Bush and the Bushies have seen to it that we have become one of the most hated and feared nations in the world.  In his conversations with both ordinary people as well as governmental higherups, with men and women devestated and infuriated by Bush's war, he allows us access to what is really going on and being indoctrinated in the minds and hearts of the people in the countries he describes in his book. Trofimov's chapters on Saudi Arabia and the Iraq war as well as his visits to Afganistan, Yemen and other Muslim countries since 9/11 and the start of the ill fated \\"War on Terrorism\\" - which should have been named the \\"Bush's amazingly successful effort to create new terrorists\\" - is alarming and informative to any nonright wing ideologue who reads this book.  I am amazed that so few people have read and commented on the book so far.  It is an absolute must read for anyone concerned with the future of our nation and of mankind in general.  Highly recommended!  wfh	2005-07-26
US	48846257	R1YMYHVZ6ZJUDA	0345450191	721230073	Conviction	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	An author's struggle	Richard North Patterson has given us at least three great novels: Protect and Defend, No Safe Place and Caroline Masters.  I suppose it was too much to expect a fourth in the form of a novel in which the primary focus is on the complexities, emotions and injustices of the death penality and its legal morasses as it is carried out in this country.  I have read five of Patterson's novels, though I am not much of a fiction reader in my old age, prefering \\"faction\\" in my dotage.  But unlike one of the previous reviewers, I find the actions and motivations of the Justice Scalia character, identified as Justice Fini in the novel, completely credible.  This is a difficult book, in many senses.  I suspect unless you have an overwhelming facscination with the marvels of the death penality, that most readers, even those like me who have serious reservations about the death penalty as it is carried out in this country, will find it unsatisfying.  William F Harrison	2005-03-22
US	48846257	R1XE8M3SJP2KW6	0671013254	77961167	009: The Age of Voltaire: A History of Civilization in Western Europe from 1715 to 1756, with Special Emphasis on the Conflict between Religion and Philosophy (The Story of Civilization IX)	Books	5	18	25	N	N	Durant is one of the greatest polymaths of the 20th century	Will Durant, initially by himself and later with his wife Ariel, has written some of the most readable and interesting histories of the 20th or any other century.  I found these books in the early 1980s and took five years to read them all.  It was the greatest intellectual experience of my lifetime, and now I am selectively reading them again.  (Fortunately I then had the habit of underlining passages I found most compelling and facinating, and this is saving me a lot of time in my rereading of the Durants.)  And this is perhaps the most informative of the books, especially given our present day American obscession with evangelical Christanity.  Rereading Durant makes me conscious of just how destructive have been the Christian schools that so many of our students have been subjected to since the mid 60s.  I think that the Durants would call today, with the eager reelection of Geo. W. Bush and his merry men, The Age of Ignorance.  Would that our students of today felt compelled to read the Durants.  wfh	2005-01-02
US	48846257	R3IHN2NNIBQUBX	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	5	22	26	N	Y	Unfortunate title	At age 12, my mother had me, and my siblings still living at home, read the Sermon on the Mount every night for a month.  At the end of that month, I was inspired to read the entire  <br />Bible, twice.  There were a couple of things even within the benign \\"sermon on the mount\\" that I found somewhat incredible, such as being sent to hell for having called your brother a fool.  But what really totally squashed my childish faith in the Christian tradition was my reading the \\"Good Book.\\"  I started at Genesis and read straight through to the end of Revelation, and then, because it left me feeling stunned by what I had read, I read it again.  The Catholic church has always wisely banned the reading of the Bible for its own parishoners, and at 12, I discovered why.  A perusale of the entire text will pretty much wipe out the idea of a supreme being that is omnipresent, omniscient and omnipotent, and even more incredible, composed of three literally unbelievable beings.  Sam Harris has written a book that should destroy completely for any rational person who reads it, the rediculous and unprovable ideas that are behind all the world religeons and their \\"holy books.\\"  Sam's is a book worthy of the 21st century and rational readers.  Unfortunately, the world is awash in unrational religionists of all faiths, tho some are much more irrational than others.  Harris demonstrates exactly how dangerous are unprovable fundimentalist religious convictions in a world filled with hundreds of millions of religious fundimentalists - and atomic weapons.  Given the fact that a significant number of Americans seem more committed to Christion fundimentlist propositions than ever in my lifetime, and that fundimentlist power in the presence of Geo. W. Bush and a significant number of Republican congressmen and senators seems at its greatest peak at anytime in our history, it will be a tremendous surprise to me should we not fall into a religeous war with Islam in the next few years.  Given the current declining level of scientific and classical education in the US and the Islamic world, it would seem that we can only avoid such a disaster by some miraculous outbreak of reason - and like all miracles, this is very unlikely, unfortunately - in both the Islamic world and among America's equally nutty Christian fundamentalists.  So I suppose we should all just bow to the east and pray for a miracle.  :-)   William F Harrison	2004-11-30
US	48846257	R3JY6D43HJOVKM	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	21	27	N	N	The most interesting president of the 20th century	I am almost 69 years old, and have been a student of all of the presidents of my lifetime, starting with FDR and going to GWB.  I have known Bill and Hillary Clinton personally since they both moved to Fayetteville to teach at the University of Arkansas Law School in the early 70s.  I met Hillary first as her physician and she soon introduced me to her then boyfriend, Bill.  My wife and I became good friends with Bill and Hillary and strong supporters for his political campaigns over the years.  I became very angry with Bill in one of his last races for Governor of Arkansas because of what I perceived as a weakness on the abortion issue when I knew that he was a strong supporter of abortion rights.  We had some harsh writen words about what I considered his failure to live by his beliefs on the issue and his failure to recognize that he would never be able to gain access to any significant support from the religious right on this issue and I felt that he was abandoning his beliefs in a failed attempt to perhaps gain an extremely few possible votes by not supporting a friend. (Me. I was then a practicing ob-gyn providing abortions, which I considered was an extremely important part of my practice - for which I was receiving heavy attacks from the radical prolifers in our state.)  I finally came to the conclusion that I had never demanded perfection from myself, and thus how could I expect it of my friends. And Bill Clinton once again became one of my political heroes, but in a much more realistic way. <br /> <br />MY LIFE is an extrodinary piece of work, starting with his childhood as the fatherless child of a widowed mother whose courage, strength, energy, constant opptimisum never laided - at least never that her son knew - and continuing through his life in the care of his grandparents who ran a small grocery in a mostly black neighborhood of Hope, Arkansas, and then his school years in Hot Springs where, as well as in Hope, he developed friendships that have lasted for all of his life.  Perhaps one of the most remarkable things about this book is the science of family, community and fellowship that it expresses.  My wife and I were lucky enough to be among the few extremely close friends, family members and invited guests at Bill and Hillary's small wedding, although we neither one realised at the time what an honor they had bestowed upon on us.  Bill Clinton and Hillary are two of the most compelling public figures of any century, and the enemies he and she have attracted, express much more about themselves than they say about this extordinary couple.  MY LIFE is an unequalled gift of a truly amazing life - its both amazing successes and excusitely painful failures, a story of loving friends and family members lost; about the unbelievably borish, arrogant, and essentially treasonous political enemies he accumulated.  And perhaps the most amazing thing in the book, is the almost endless ability that it demonstrates of a man's determination to continue his work under vicious attacks by those who's only goal was to destroy him with no regard for how many innocent people were hurt, or for the lives that were destroyed.   <br /> <br />I am so proud to have known Bill and Hillary Clinton and their families and some of their friends; and to have been their friend for a few short years wen I and they were much younger;  to have had the opportunity to read this book, which outlines snd showcases some of the most extraordinary persons and events in U.S. history.  You go, Bill and Hillary.  You both have given already an almost unsurpassed contribution to our nation's history, which will obviously judge you with a much more reasoned and rationnal mind than the idiots who have hated you, seemingly for no more reason Christ was hated - you aspired to, and tried to, make our world a better place. <br /> <br />Of course, Bill Clinton, unlike the reportedly perfect Christ was not perfect.  He was and is a human being, with a human being'sweaknesses and flaws, exposed to far greater challenges and fatal, sinful attractions than most of us will ever face.  But he never made the mistake of seeking power solely for powers rewards.  And it turns out that his sin was much more human and forgivable than any of the wicked and venomous efforts of those so anxious to pursue him to the ends of the earth, like the madly possessed detective in Victor Hugo's masterpiece.      <br /> <br />I wish I could come back in fifty or so years, to see what history has to say about Bill Clinton and his book. I don't believe that he has anything to worry about, and I suspect this is simply one more thing that makes some of his reviewers so furious.   wfh	2004-07-25
US	48846257	R2KPPSBJN2QY9G	0805070044	340213782	The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic	Books	5	35	36	N	N	the end of the dream is in sight	These United States were created by those who wrote, signed and ratified our constitution well over 200 years ago.  George Washington was the first of a handful of generals ever elected to the presidency and Dwight D. Eisenhower was the last.  Both these warriors bequeathed to posterity a signal warning concerning militarism in their farewell addresses.  Washington addressed the dangers of a large standing army and Eisenhower warned of our burgeoning military industrial complex.  In the 1960s and again in the 1980s, an Arkansas Cassandra named J. William Fulbright, once chairman of the Senate Foriegn Relations Committee back when that position meant something, wrote two prescient books, the first called &quot;The Price Of Empire&quot; and the second one called &quot;The Arrogance Of Power.&quot;  Now along comes Chalmers Johnson to expand on all these works and show us just how close we are to losing our democratic republic because we have lost our way.  The American nation and its people have long refused to see where the militarists now in almost total control of the machinery of our government have been taking us over the last sixty years.  Once upon a time, we could rationalize our government's anti-democratic acts and blatent militarism by citing the very real danger posed by cruel and well armed dictatorships in the former USSR and China.  No longer do we have that excuse.  But today, as Johnson makes very clear with an extensively documented tome, the most reactionary and dangerous administration this country has ever been cursed with is in almost complete control of our economy, the media, both houses of congress, and a majority of the Supreme Court.  These now captive institutions - acting in concert with an evermore out-of-control military and armaments industry - present the greatest danger to our freedoms, and to the founding American values responsible for what has been the most remarkable experiment in self-government the world has ever seen.  Johnsonilluminates the almost unbelievable extent that the professional military and its incestuous relationship with the American armaments industry are now under the control of an evermore powerful and repressive far right wing political reality.  Once Rome was a republic blessed with an alert and politically active citizenry.  Rome never achieved the degree of freedom for all its populace that we have enjoyed for so long because the title of &quot;citizen&quot; was not bestowed on all its inhabitants.  But when the Roman citizens relinquished to the Cesears and their Praetorian Guard the right to control almost all of Roman life, Rome's citizens became slaves to an evermore dominating dictatorship and its evermore powerful war machine.  Johnson explores just how far down this road we have traveled, reading the sign posts along the way.  Perhaps we've not yet reached the awful sign that says &quot;You have passed the point of no return&quot;, but Johnson clearly indicates, and I firmly believe, we must be getting very close.  Don't read this book unless you intend to vote to take your country back by electing to high national office men and women who will honor our nation's history and its values.   <BR>    This will be a very disturbing book for many of you who have had your heads in the proverbial sand for the past 50 years.  I would give it six stars had I them available.   wfh	2004-02-17
US	48846257	RO856SCFD9YJS	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	our democracy is at risk	I am currently reading, in addition to this, two other books that deal with the current Bush adminstration.  These others are \\"American Dynasty\\" by the well known old liberal, Kevin Phillips and \\"The Sorrows of Empire\\" by the well known socialist and pinko \\"fellow traveler\\", Chalmers Johnson.  This book, The Price of Loyalty, is written by a former reporter for that ever-bleeding-heart rag and bastion of populism and liberal politics, The Wall Street Journal :-).  As most observers who have watched the unrelenting attacks, by our suddenly far-right-wing dominated Presidency, Congress and Supreme Court, on fiscal responsibility, civil rights, and any semblance of rational democratic process knows by now, this has been the most ideological and destructive administration the American people have ever experienced.  I pray that we are not so far down the channel that leads to right-wing dictatorship that our ship of state cannot be turned.  However, given the abandonment of its watchdog role over, and indeed the unbridled collusion of corporate media with, the forces that threaten our democracy and are rapidly undermining the ideals and values upon which this country was founded, Suskind, O'Neil and I are very fearful that the America we have always known is a thing of the past.  Benjamin Franklyn, as he exited Constitution Hall at the end of that Miracle in Philadelphia, when asked \\"what kind of government have you given us, Dr. Franklyn?\\" is supposed to have replied, \\"A republic, sir, if you can keep it!\\"  Suskind and Paul O'Neil, along with a few other Bush administration officials who felt their loyalties lay not with the small cabal of right wing ideologues manipulating and controlling the weak and mentally lazy, governmentally incompetent Geo. W. Bush - and through him and an ever more subserviant Congress and acquiesant Supreme Court the levers of government for the benefit of the few - but with a true reading of the constitution and the governing precedents and processes that guided many generations of American statesmen and elected officials.  O'Neil's interviews with Suskind and his release of a spider's nest of Bush-damning documents, should, all by themselves, be sufficient to create a firestorm of reaction in this country.  But when this book is combined with the other recent indictments in the public record of this adminstration, its overweening arrogance and misgoverning based all too often on the manufactured \\"gut feeling\\" of a president who makes the average adolescent seem thoughtful and responsible, it is unbelievable that our elected representatives of both parties are not crying for impeachment.  Where are the American statesmen who once were the guardians of our constitution and the values that long made this country and our government a beacon of light and hope to all the world?  Unfortunately, they have morphed into Tom Delay, John Ashcroft, Donald Rumsfeld, Karl Rove, and the weak and craven Colin Powell.  I fear that this book, along with the other titles I have mentioned, will be among the first books burned under our new Bushian order.  Suskind and O'Neil are true patriots.  Such men are usually the first to face the firing squads of the Pol Pots and similar tyrants of our modern world.  A great book, but one that may put your life at risk to own.   wfh	2004-02-08
US	48846257	R1IRFM9JG7JLCV	089526174X	295390669	The Hand of God: A Journey from Death to Life by the Abortion Doctor Who Changed His Mind	Books	1	24	119	N	Y	a life and a mind are terrible things to waste	I wrote a review posted at this site several months ago which apparenty amazon found too hot, and too long to handle.  In 1970, Nathanson became one of the most active abortion providers in the world and evidently made a ton of money.  However, Roe v. Wade was issued and the roof of his personal treasure trove fell in when thousands of physicians around the country started providing elective abortions in every state in the union.  Nathanson claims to have suddenly discovered (after seeing scores of thousands of dead fetuses while doing abortions and at least scores of hundreds of stillbirths and new born babies as an ob/gyn) that the fetus, as it matures, looks a lot like a baby.  He claims not to have known this until he first say the results of early ultrasounds.  As anyone who has ever done an ob residency can tell you, one doesn't have to see his first ultrasound to know any of this.  If you would like a copy of the review amazon refused, you may email me at wharri3365@cox-internet.com.  William F Harrison, MD, FACOG and abortion provider.	2004-02-04
US	48846257	R10IWSTKBA55OF	0345450175	290245844	Balance Of Power	Books	5	7	20	N	Y	Mindless attacks make this book a winner	Ric Patterson's work has matured to the point that he is somewhere out there far beyond most of the legal eagles who write much of the mindless twaddle that passes for American literature and shows up regularly on best seller lists.  Patterson's last three books have taken on some of the most controversial subjects in American life, and although those who might have helped him present a more balanced view of gun and Pro-Life advocates refused to be interviewed, he has done a remarkable job of addressing some of the very few reasoned and defensible positions staked out by the radical right wing (apparently the largest and most powerful part)of the Republican Party, as well as the Ku Klux Klan, militant Pro-Lifers, Neo-Nazis and \\"skinheads\\" along with various fundamentalist and Christian Identity groups that pass for \\"conservatives\\" these days.  The multiple one star reviews, obviously written by mindless NRA hacks, are for the most part laughable, several of the writers claiming previously to have been Patterson fans.  Unless you happen to be one of these trigger-happy NRA jerks, you can pretty much ignore whatever they have to say and get on to the four and five star reviews by Patterson's more literate and thoughtful readers.  Patterson is the very best political novelist writing today.  His books are extensively researched, well written and edited, and will teach those with an open mind much they were not aware of, or misunderstood.  I can't wait for Patterson's next work.  wfh	2004-01-22
US	48846257	RHODNI7SP6JEH	0072435194	892228642	Woman Warrior - Memoirs Of A Girlhood Among Ghosts	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Growing up Chinese in America	Maxine Hong Kingston, in this book and its companion, China Men, gives us one of the very best depictions of what it means to be a second generation inhabitant of this land when your parents have come from a totally alien culture.  And is any culture more alien to us than that of China before the revolution?  Woman Warrior works on a lot of levels.  First, it is beautifully written wit evocative language and dreamlike scenes that evoke sequentially horror, amusement, wonder and finally recognition, of both ourselves and the \\"other\\".  I like books that give me information and a sense of understanding of cultures and peoples not my own, that speak to our common humanity.  Mrs. Kingston's writings do all those things.  Excellent book.  wfh	2004-01-17
US	48846257	R103B6E3O3QGJM	1573222453	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The first novel of a new grand master	Reading The Kite Runner, I had the same sensations that must have been felt by the first readers of Twain, Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, Harding and all the other great modern novelists.  This book has and pays tribute to all elements of great literature, and is a marvelous read as well.  It examines courage and cowardice; unbounded kindness and elemental cruelty; love, hate; the most cowardly betrayal and the terrible, but finally liberating, karmic retribution;  war, peace; madness and nobility of sentiment; mindless fundamentalist religeon and the most uplifting spirituality.  Hosseini understands not only the complicated interplay between fathers and sons and the extreme difficulty of forgiving those whom you have betrayed, but the humanity and basic importance of those moments of blinding failure that can sometimes be responsible for creating the truly heroic act and man.  This book deserves every accolade that the other reviewers have given it.  Buy it, read it and pass it on to those you love.  wfh	2004-01-16
US	48846257	RB37CQOKDI0YZ	1585745995	424629921	Doctor on Everest: Emergency Medicine at the Top of the World - A Personal Account of the 1996 Disaster	Books	5	0	7	N	N	why this review is seperate from my others?	I have already written a reviw of this and Eiger dreams and wonder why these reviews are not with my others.  I wrote them on my computer at home and perhaps this is the reason.  Can you place them with the other reviews by William F Harrison of Fayetteville, AR?   wfh	2003-12-19
US	48846257	R2UCURNX8ENLHY	0345450175	300533282	Balance Of Power	Books	5	6	15	N	Y	RNP is the best political novelist of our time	My first review of a book on Amazon was Patterson's \\"Protect and Defend\\" (P&D).  After that, I read \\"Carolyn Masters\\" and \\"No Safe Place\\" (NSP).  This is at least his fourth book of some common characters, and I understand that one other has Kerry Kilcannon at a much earlier stage in his life.<br />Patterson's major protagonist in the Kerry Kilcannon trilogy, who eventually becomes President late in the first book, is an amalgam of the charm and chrisma of JFK, the ruthlessness and idealism of RFK, the cunning and legislative skills of LBJ, and the intelligence, and some of the personal history and political resilience of Bill Clinton.  In other words, he's quite a guy; perhaps a little too good to be true even in a novel.  But that being said, in \\"Balance of Power\\", Patterson has written quite a novel.<br />I met Mr Patterson shortly after I read Protect and Defend, and he told me that he was working on and doing research for this novel about gun control.  I had no idea that he would be able to treat this subject in the same way and in the same context that he had some of the most contentious issues in the abortion debate.  But he has.  This is a wonderful novel, fast paced, dramatic, full of fully developed characters that, especially if you've read his previous novels, (NSP) and (P&D), one can care about.  I find it more than a little amusing that some of the most strident of the one star reviewers claim to be Patterson fans, but seemingly didn't know his previous novels had also called to task the extreme right wing of the American political spectrum that holds today's Rebublican party in thrall.  <br />One of the things that makes Patterson's last three novels really fun to read is the connecting of both his most admirable and more dispicable characters to their real life counterparts in public life.  Perhaps the easiest to place are Senators Chad Palmer, McDonald Gage and Fasano - the Rick Santorum character. (Although Sen. Fasano is much brighter and more admirable even in his slimy manipulations of those around him than is Pennsylvania's Santorum.)  Sen. Paul Harshman, the neanderthal political hack who carries a lot of the right's dirtiest wash, contains so many of the more vicious and less admirable attributes of the Republican majority in both the House and the Senate, that he could be patterned on any of scores of current and recent past members of those once great bastions of democratic representative government.  <br />I hope that now that Patterson says that he is finished with the Killcannon trilogy that he will imagine in some future novel that an unprincipaled and reactionary dominated Supreme court will replace Kilcannon with some pip squeak figurehead Southwestern governor with the character of a pimp and the morals and vision of an Enron CEO, and let us know what things might be coming down the pike under some future fictional administration.  But that's too far fetched, even for Patterson's fertile mind, isn't it?  <br />Like Patterson's last two best sellers, this is one of the best researched, most intelligent and principaled political and court room novels I've ever read.  But I can certainly understand why the trogolodytes of the right might be offended by his characterization of some of their positions and defenders.  Rick Patterson calls an idiot an idiot, a fool a fool, and a fraud a fraud.  We can't have that, now.  Can we?   William F. Harrison	2003-11-25
US	48846257	R1107LEP8B8Y5T	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	All about Adams, Adams and Adams	David McCollough may be our best living biographer.  In this book he explores the life of not only John Adams, but of the remarkable Abigail and John Quincy as well.  Adams, like his friend?opponent/friend Thomas Jefferson, was a man formed as much by his own hand as by his birthplace.  McCollough's story exams the miraculous events that created, sustained and completed the American revolution through the stories of John and Abigail Adams and their relationships and interactions with Jefferson and many of their other contempories, like Ben Franklin, Alexander Hamilton and George Washington.  While describing the Adams's relationships and interactions with many of the founding fathers and the high and mighty of the time, McCollough explores some of the relationships with their more modest New England neighbors.  In the throes of major domestic and foriegn policy difficulties, John Adams sometimes expressed  regret that he had not become a shoemaker.  McCollough illustrates vividly for us what we and the world might have lost than a lesser man than Adams been assigned and elected to his many and varied posts in revolutionary times.  A marvelous book.  In a class with Helen Drinker Bowen's &quot;Miracle at Philadelpha&quot;.   wfh	2003-10-23
US	48846257	R1S32E17J0XC7W	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	33	38	N	Y	The Franken equivilent of Uncle Tom's Cabin	Al Franken has done his country a great service in the publication of this book.  I truly hope and trust it is going to be the straw that breaks the back of the worst cabal of thieves, liars, sycophants and con men (and women) this nation has ever seen.  As a recent Nobel prize winner for Economics said in the German press a few weeks ago, George W. Bush has been the worst president who has ever darkened the doors of the White House in all the history of the United States.  Thank God we didn't elect him!  Franken's book is extremely funny, deeply troubling, saddening and infuriating all at the same time.  Big Al, like his spiritual father, Will Rogers, uses humor at times like a stileto, sometimes like a mace, and still again, like a bulldozer.  His parries of the thrusts of the likes of Coulter, O'Reilly, Limbaugh et al, are alone worth the price of the book.  But his devastating indictment of the Bush administration's &quot;Operation Ignore&quot;, followed immediately by their &quot;Operation Blame-former-Presidnt-Clinton&quot;, and of other blatantly treasonous actions, may well be worth the Presidency.  If ever a president deserved impeachment, it is George W. Bush, who has, as Fraken abundantly demonstrates, in large part been almost totally responsible (with the collusion of almost all Republican members of Congress and more than a few craven Democrats) for the derelictions of duty that resulted in 9/11, for the largest current and even larger impending budget deficit(s) in history, for the killing and maiming of tens of thousands of innocent Iraqi civilians and thousands of young American service personnel with no end in sight.  Unfortiunately, we, our children, and the world will pay for George W. Bush's malfeasance for generations.  If you read no other portion of Franken's book, read the two chapters that start on page 104.  Most of the book is liberally leavened with humor, but not even funnyman Al Franken can find humor in this 20 or so page account of high crimes and misdemeanors.  It is a great book.  As important in our time as was Common Sense in pre-Revolutionary War days.  Buy several and give them to your friends to pass on.  If you do, we may yet save out country.   wfh	2003-09-16
US	48846257	R1FY22Q8LQKC17	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	18	27	N	Y	The prototypical American	Ben Franklin, signer of the Declaration of Independance, of the Treaty of Paris that ended the Revolutionary War, and of the Constitution of the United States, and the most proletarian of the Founding Fathers, has been afforded a wonderful tribute in this probably definative biography for our generation of a truly great man.  Jefferson is generally thought of as America's first Renaissance man, but as Isaacson amply demonstrates, the title most rightly belongs to Franklin.  Isaacson carries the story of Franklin's life from the time of his birth in humble circumstances to his death at 83, when he had become one of the world's most famous men.  Isaacson gives us insight into the sources of Franklin's well deserved fame.  Franklin's autobiography, extensively quoted, is probably the most famous of this genre in the world still, certainly in this country, and provides a constant backstop for Isaacson's loving portrait of an exceedingly complex man.  Had he come to the fore today, in these days of Republican mores and instant scandel, Franklin's sexual and marital history would have destroyed one of America's greatest citizens before he even started.  Thank God he lived in a more civilized time.  A wonderful and exhilerating read.   wfh	2003-09-04
US	48846257	R3OUHO9CU1YFM2	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Insanity compounding insanity compounding insanity compou...	I just finished this book which I had begun along with Isaacson's fine biography of Benjamin Franklin.  Reading both books at the same time was like reading a treatise on &quot;Black&quot; and at the same time reading one on &quot;White&quot;.  Krakauer has done us all a service in ably recording the insanity that indisputably lies at the fringes of all religions.  The insanity just lies a little closer to the core beliefs of Mormonism than most older religions because the Mormons are a sect in its relative infancy.  A look back at the attrocities committed in the name of Christ by early Christians makes some of the Mormon fundis seem almost benign.  Early Christians were roasting each other alive by locking entire congregations in desenting churches at this stage in their development. (At least the Mormons only killed &quot;unbelievers&quot; in their one large scale murderous binge, the &quot;Mountain Meadows Massacre&quot;, rather than murdering minor schismatics.)  And Islam has a well known long and bloody history, and shares with the Mormons a distinctly anti-woman bias allowing for multiple wives and concubines for its followers.  Under The Banner Of Heaven opens with the brutal murder of a young woman and her child in her home at the hands of her brothers-in-law, supposedly carried out under the direction of God, and Krakauer proceeds to carry us through the insanity of the formation of a new religion and its offshoots.  I have always had severe reservations about a people who could accept the teachings that Independance, MO is the Biblical &quot;Garden of Eden&quot;.  As a Roman Catholic (and of course here in this Church lies other tales of insanities of historic proportions) friend of mine says, &quot;I've been to Independance, MO.  Independance is a nice town, but anyone who thinks this is the Garden of Eden is nuts!&quot;  Krakauer does a good job of allowing the documents of Joseph Smith and his contempories as well as the modern day &quot;Prophets&quot; speak for themselves.  He illuminates brilliantly the isolation, the saddness and desperation, as well as the insanity, that lie at the heart of religious fundimentalisms.  Unfortuately, he could have been writing about the extremes of any of modern day and historical religions.  It is a good book.  It will be attacked by adherents of all fundimentalist faiths, because any of them can be tarred with the same brush.   wfh	2003-08-19
US	48846257	R75E5ILYF0ZT8	0375724443	177766244	Ava's Man	Books	2	25	35	N	Y	A mighty thin mix to try to cast a hero from	I read Rick Bragg's book, ALL OVER BUT THE SHOUTIN' and felt uplifted and proud of my poor, rural southern heritage.  AVA'S MAN did not leave me with the same pride of place and time.  I was born in 1935 in rural Arkansas and picked my first cotton in my maternal grandfather's and his neighbor's fields as a four year child.  Although my folks were what others have characterized as \\"the gentle poor\\" as opposed to what they characterize as \\"poor white trash\\", I worked with and alongside and lived among whole communities of folks like the Bundrums.  When and where I grew up, men like Charlie Bundrum were not heroes.  Chronic drunks who die early of cirrhosis with no provision for their widows and children, who were brawlers and jail birds were not a breed to be celebrated even though their children might have loved them and their grandchildren, for their own not so difficult to understand reasons, placed them on a pedestal.  In the rural south of Charlie's day, fighting among children trying to find their place in the pecking order of a three room school was standard, but heroic men fought only under extreme provocation and their fights were often to the death.  If there is a hero in AVA'S MAN, it is Ava, not her man.  Charlie Bundrum did a little too much likkerin', brawling, drunken driving, fishing and general carousing for my taste in heroes, and casting him as one creates a model that has been followed by far too many young of the underclass of southern white male to the downfall of thousands of their families and communities.  Bragg's mother was very rightly the hero of his first family memoir, and his father the heavy.  I suppose he needed some male in his direct line of ancestors to carry the mantle of the hero, but Grandfather Charlie seems to provide very little cement, to go along with all the likker and sand, for the casting of the likeness of a real hero.  I started reading this book fully prepared to praise it, as so many of it's reviewers have.  I endedit depressed and sorry that Charlie's life was not one that I find heroic.  God knows, we could use a few more of these among the poor southern white male, but it seems that most of our poor white Dixie heros have been female, and our male heroes have been, to a large extent, black.   wfh	2003-07-13
US	48846257	RCW5WGIPZ99IH	0679774025	504166475	All over but the Shoutin'	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Scion of the "ungentle poor"	Rick Bragg has written intelligently, lovingly, compassionately and with absolute integrity about the people, his people, from whom Erskine Caldwell drew his inspiration for Tobacco Road and God's Little Acre.  I grew up among the gentle poor of the rural south.  My family were teachers, preachers and small farmers, but I worked in the fields along side scores of folk, any of whom could have been interchangable with the Braggs.  The author's father came back from Korea a mean and irresponsible drunk.  Many of the south's sons sent to war return this way.  But some become mean and cruel preachers, an even more dangerous breed because they can poison the lives of not just one family, but whole communities.  Bragg tells his story in the unique voice of the hardscrabble rural south, a voice that those of us among the gentle poor lose as soon as we can because, usually as young folk, we are ashamed of our origins.  Rick Bragg was/is smart enough to wear his voice as a badge of honor.  Bragg writes of his kin and few friends, his mentors and the subjects of his wonderful human interest stories with an unusual sensitivity born of the hurt feelings unexpressed or even acknowledged, the horrors and injustices of his time and place. He was a Neiman Fellow at Harvard, an accomplishment of which he is justifiably proud, but obviously suprised to find himself in the hallowed halls, feeling something like a Possum Trot pig in a tutu.  It is a wonderful book about a sensitive and bright young boy overcoming with the help of those he loved and who loved him, the terrible deficiencies of his environment and place.  He has not forgotten his roots and he shames we fortunate few who sometimes do.  And to the reviewer who felt Rick's momma should have eschewed welfare and gotten a job, you are obviously a modern day Republican, with a heart as hard and lifeless as that of a corporate lawyer.  I hope that someday you are sentenced to a place where you have to chop cotton for the rest ofyour life with a short hoe and to pick it interminally with cold and bleeding hands.  That is one of my ideas of hell.   wfh	2003-07-09
US	48846257	R31GFEPQJGAN6T	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A model of its type	Treason, along with Ann Coulter's other books, belongs in the library of anyone who appreciates, perhaps even loves and accepts as Gospel, works like The Turner Diaries, Pat Robertson's New World Order, Jerry Falwell's Clinton Chronicles, any of Benard Nathanson's personal triumphs, Hitler's charming little book about \\"his struggle,\\" the various online tracts that promise to tell you how to make a bomb big enough to flatten a synagogue or an abortion clinic from any of a 100 different household items, or the various self-published or Regnery Press-published pamphlets and tomes that grace the \\"books for sale\\" tables at major Knife and Gun shows.  For the missing links who have given this and Ms. Coulter's other works five stars, this book is just their cup of tea.  Like Ms. Coulter's other efforts, it is so full of invective (somewhat like this review :-), halftruth, misrepresentation and outright lies that were it not so toxic, it could be used to slim fish.  But to give the devil her due, it will certainly find an appreciative audience among the trogolodytes that infest the far right fringes of the Religious Right and the modern Republican Party	2003-07-01
US	48846257	RP13BCZSQHIZ4	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	12	17	N	Y	"...and the truth shall set you free."	So far I am only 150 pages into this book. I've not previously put anything on amazon about a book until I have finished it. I am going to make an exception in this case, because I am extremely familiar with the material that Blumenthal has so far covered in his fine, fine history of the Clinton \\"scandals\\" and how they came to be. I have scanned and read several of the scurrilous literary efforts of the professional haters who relentlessly attacked and tried to destroy the Clinton presidency and in the process have poisoned, perhaps fatally, our political processes and the political and social climate of our nation. The Clinton Wars is highly informed, meticulously factual, remarkably readable, partisan but not blindly so, and one of the most if not the most important books about the current state of the Republican Party to hit the bookshelves in years. In the first chapter, Blumenthal does the best job of anyone so far at outlining the character of Bill and Hillary and their enemies. The implacable, sometimes venel and always selfserving enemies, as opposed to the political opponents of the Clintons, and the supposedly \\"objective\\" journalists who were their all too willing tools, are revealed in all their slimy glory. The journalists were led with eyes wide open, but clouded by visions of Watergate-like notoriety, down a torturous and easily disproved primrose path by some of the most outlandish and unbelievable characters since the King and the Duke were huckstering the rubes in Mark Twain's Huckelberry Finn. The idea that this cast of characters - led by the ever  despicable old racist Justice Jim Johnson (Orval Faubus's evil genius), convicted felon and small time crook David Hale, poor crazy and frightened Jim McDougal, the reprehensible Floyd Brown and David Bosie and all the rest of the unlikely cabal that almost brought down a president - was able to pull the wool over the eyes of almost all the mainstream press and influence so much of the political manuevering of the last 8 years of the twentieth century will be as ludicrus to historians as it currently is to so many of those of us who knew many of the characters pulling the strings behind this drama.<br />If the rest of Blumenthal's work holds up to the very auspicious start of the first 150 pages, he, along with Joe Conason and Gene Lyons (The Hunting Of The President), and David Maraniss (First in His Class), has performed a major service to historians writing about politics the late 21st century in the United States. wfh	2003-06-21
US	48846257	R1XP817A1NFK0Z	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	1	9	29	N	N	Rright wing hogwash at its tastiest.	Dereliction of Duty is one of two books that I have reviewed on Amazon that I have given one star, the other being Bernard Nathanson's supposed autobiography The Hand of God - only because I could not give it none. I should say at the outset, that tho I am an unreconstructed bibliophile and a voracious reader, I could not bring myself to buy this book for my library. This is perhaps the silliest, most petulent, of the mindless and vicious attacks on the Clinton presidency. And anyone whose memory extends past two weeks ago can choose from a myriad of misrepresentations, distortions, non sequiters and outrageous opinions and meaningless anecdotes contained within it. It seems to have been written by a certifiable paranoic. The only other book I've read about the Clinton years which comes close to being as silly as this one is the one by the former FBI man assigned to the White House who wrote his own \\"expose\\" a few years ago. Bill and Hillary have been able to rouse a remarkable level of hatred in the odd ball right wing. This guy reminds me of General Edwin A. Walker, a denizen of the far right back in the 1960s. How do these creeps keep infiltrating our military?...wfh	2003-06-18
US	48846257	R3S6YG4N00FGSL	0151005591	878443798	Last Man Out: The Story of the Springhill Mine Disaster	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Melissa Faye Greene's glimpse of blue sky	This is the third book I've read by Ms Greene.  The others have been prize winners, and I suspect this will be as well.  She is an exceptional writer whose prose is vivid, evocative and direct.  The reader from Denver who gives her such a negative review must have been terribly constipated when he read this book.  I talked to Ms Greene a few years ago after reading Praying for Sheetrock, one of my all time favorite books of non-fiction and she told me that she was about to write this book.   I wondered what had peaked her interest in an event so far removed from her Georgia both in time and space.  She gives us the reason in her portrayal of the racist rabble rouser, Marvin Griffin, the former Gov of Ga (who thoughtfully placed the remnent of the Confederate battle flag on Ga's current day falg so that modern day Georgians might have a gentle reminder of their glorious past in the forefront of the \\"old guard.\\")  Greene reminds us, as if those of us who lived in those times needed reminding, that even heroes were not immune to the hatred and poisons spewed out of the mouths of the likes of Griffin.  But this book is much more than a spotlight on racism.  It is a portryal courage, of real family values lived under the most trying of conditions; of official, personal and corporate betrayal; of petty jealousies, disappointment and despair; but mostly it is a tale of human beings caught, trapped in what must be one of the most terrifying conditions that exist.  A mile deep in the bowels of the earth, dozens of men are killed instantly, and others die slow agonizing deaths.  The 19 miners  emerge from this horrendous ordeal, their families, lives and freinds, are described in vivid detail.  Greene has done a wonderful job putting the reader right beside the trapped miners and letting us share their fears, their awesome courage, courage which was neccessary just to enter the mine day after day after day.  She admits us to their homes, introduces their wives and children and recounts, often in their own words, the story of their despair and courage just as graphically as she does that of the trapped and dead miners.  Melissa Greene is a writer of awe inspiring talent and industry.  She is a national treasure. Her books will be read so long as stories of courage and decency inspire us.   wfh	2003-05-06
US	48846257	R2IV7FK87PVK0S	0800634330	731670826	Sacred Choices: The Right to Contraception nd Abortion in Ten World Religions (Sacred Energies Series)	Books	5	20	26	N	Y	a serious work of religious scholarship	While Daniel Maguire is one of the few mirthful scholars of religious thought, his writings have serious import in a world too often darkened by religious crime.  Maguire and his sources demonstrate quite vividly that while most of the world's religions have often been involved in horrific and destructive actions, that there was and is a serious and awe inspiring underpining to their formation and purpose.  My personal opinion is that there was probably much more fear and trembling than awe and reverence at their core beginnings, but Maquire is more generous in his accessment.  Maguire takes us through more than ten of the world's great religious traditions with the help of scholars well versed in their own religious traditions, to demonstrate conclusively that although there is much in religious tradtions to comfort Pro-Life adherents, that there is a line of equally orthodox thought in every religious tradition to support the Pro-Choice view, and that government support of one of these religious views over the other is in conflict with the American ideal of resisting governmental intervention into religious matters.  Maguire has an obvious bias toward the Pro-Choice religious position, but he is generous in granting legitimacy to the Pro-Life position as well.  However, he unabashedly points out the inconsistancies in the lobbying and advocacy efforts by current avowedly Pro-Life activist's positions on multiple fronts in public policy debates.  This is an important book for anyone who takes religious matters seriously.  And whether or not one is religious or irreligious, I think that none can deny that religion plays a very big part in both national and international policy debates, and therefor, it behooves us all to take seriously matters of religious thought.  Maguire shows us in his first few pages exactly why it is so necessary that we do so.  An excellent and thoughtful read and a book which belongs on any thinking person's book shelves.    wfh	2003-04-13
US	48846257	R1BOAXQAPB7Q92	0743211995	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Memoirs of a decent man	Jimmy Carter, throughout his political career and since his defeat by the seeminly revered Ronnie Reagan, has demonstrated again and again his basic decency and humanity.  In this book, he vividly demonstrates where those traits originated.  Carter grew to manhood in rural GA, about as rural as you get, in a society dominated by racists and bigots, but also populated by loving, charitable individuals and families much like the Carters, who, Mr. Carter shows were not entirely free of their own prejudices and bigotry.  He describes the members of his community and family in usually loving terms, even as he details many of their human foibles.  My favorite passage in the book is when, during Carter's campaign for the presidency in 1976, his colorful and much loved brother, Billy, in answer to some reporters questions about his family and why he seems to be such an anomalie in his family, says something to the effect that, \\"Well, my mother was a 70 year old peace corps volunteer in India, one of my sisters rides motorcycles all over the country and the other goes around the world preaching, my brother thinks he's going to be president and I run a filling station.  Now you tell me, out of that bunch, who do you think is normal?\\"  Well, the normal one certainly wasn't Jimmy Carter, who has proved himself an exceptional human being over a lifetime of achievement and striving for the betterment of humanity.  This book tells us a little bit about how this truly exceptional man came into being while giving those of us with different life experiences a glimpse of what life was like in most of the rural south during his formative years.  It is a delightful book and goes a long way toward explaining why Jimmy Carter has become America's most admired ex-president, and presents such a high standard for other ex-president to aspire to.  Great and inspiratioal book for children and young people and a rare pleasure to read.   wfh	2003-03-26
US	48846257	R1KJ3D9DEST5VC	0375505210	474629453	The Best Lawyer in a One-Lawyer Town: A Memoir	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Bumpers at his best	Dale Bumpers is 10 tears older than I, but given that rural Arkansas small town life was similar from the turn of the century until about to mid 1950s, our boyhood experiences were not disimilar.  Bumpers tells his story anecdotally, the way he speaks.  It is written with a sharp wit, frequently pointed at himself.  It is intelligent, articulate and exactly what one would expect from one of, if not the very best of this nation's senators in the second half of the 20th century.  Bumpers was always honest, usually truthful - always hard for a lawyer :-) - and always respectful in his dealing with his constituents.  Bumpers, like his predessor, William Fulbright, never suffered fools lightly, and given that he was surrounded by them toward the end of his senate career, it is easy to see why he ended his senate career as a relatively young man - by senate standards.  Bumpers never directly answers a question that many who followed his career always wondered about - why did he never run for president? - given that he would have been an exceptionally attractive democratic candidate.  One hint he gives us is that he never enjoyed being governor.  He always said that one reason he didn't run at one propituous time was that he had a bad knee.  However, given the fact that his greatest political model, FDR, who had consumed American politics during his formative years and who he once saw on a presidential trip through Arkansas, (...couldn't even walk\\" which is a paraphrase of the name of one of his chapters) was handicapped to a far greater extent, it seems odd that a man of Bumper's physical and moral courage never made the race.  It may have been that he was unwilling to spend the time and make the moral compromises necessary to raise the obscene amonts of money necesary to make a legitimate bid for a major party nomination, or he may have been put off by the vicious nature of presidential campaigning that developed during the last 20 years, or it may have been that he justrefused to put his family under the national media spotlight in which every flaw and weakness is exploited by a modern press following the orders of an every decreasing number of usually right wing owners, producers and publishers.  Whatever the reason, the nation lost a master politician who might have changed to course of history.  This is his story in his words.  A wonderful read.  wfh	2003-02-25
US	48846257	R1I5XQFZ9NT8XA	0195147782	601055907	Reverence: Renewing a Forgotten Virtue	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	A most remarkable work	Paul Woodruff may have written one of the more important books I have ever read.  At this time of near war and religious terror, with our country, and the world, being rapidly torn apart by political and sectarian certainties, Woodruff's book is as welcome as a breath of clean, gas free air might have been on the night of the Bhopal catastrophe.  If I could afford it, and if I thought they would read it, I would send a copy to every politician and religious leader in the world.  In the past 20 of the almost 68 years of my life, I have read many works of moral philosophy and ethics.  Reverence has been one of the very few truly awe inspiring books I've ever read.  And the remarkable thing about Reverence is that it can speak to almost any one, of whatever religious or political persuasion, or to those with none.  It is written in such a manner as to be accessible to readers of almost any level above, say, the seventh grade, and speaks with comparable interest to those whose lives may have been devoted to a study of moral philosophy.  According to Woodruff, while reverence may certainly be involved in religion, and in fact, religion without true reverence is one of the most distructive forces in the world, it should be embraced even more closely by the politician and the great leaders of the world, as well as us ordinary mortals.  If you don't read anything else in the year 2003, read Reverence. William F Harrison	2003-01-29
US	48846257	R2QWRC6RKKL244	0786711280	474513613	The Woman Who Wouldn't Talk: Why I Refused to Testify Against the Clintons and What I Learned in Jail	Books	5	61	71	N	Y	Ken Starr's and the OIC's obiturary	Susan McDougal, a truly remarkable woman, has written a remarkable book.  One is not often treated to examples of moral heroism in this day of \\"what's in it for me\\", but McDougal's story deserves to be read by every person in America who has ever wondered why they should do the right and painful thing in the face of powerful enemies and overwhelming temptation to save one's self at the expense of another.  This is a tale of heroines and heroes, of good friends and false friends, of villians and the lowest scum to ever stride a court room.  Ken Starr and his cronies, and those in various jails and federal prisons who tried to assist him in breaking the spirit of this courageous and honest woman, have much for which to answer.  If there is a god who metes out punishment and reward at the end of our days, I would not want to occupy Ken Starr's, or any number of other OIC prosecutors' and FBI agents' coffins.  Buy this book and read it.  Read it to your children and your grandchildren.  It will make you all better people, and it is a hell of a good read and a lot of fun!	2003-01-28
US	48846257	R3LXVPWB32HSZ9	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Sex, sex, and more sex, plus a little about diet	Barbara Kingsolver is an observational biologist, enamoured of the natural world and all of God's creatures. And it shows.  This is the second novel and third book I've read by Ms. Kingsolver, the first being The Poisonwood Bible and the book of essays, High Tide in Tucson, and is the set in her native Kentucky.  Or is the setting Tennessee or West Virginia?  Anyway, the action all takes place in and near a small rural community called Egg Creek and on Zebulon mountain or at its foot.  The main human characters are three strong women and one very shakey old man surrounded by a cast of characters which, with the exception of the not quite believable Eddie Bondo, will be easily recognized by those of us who grew up in isolated rural communities.  You can get the gist of the plot by reading any of the scores of reviews already on this list.  But what the book is really about is life's appetite for sex and food.  Observational biologists, those whose main studies are in reproduction of species and where they live, what their eat, and how they interact with the other species in their environment, as a group are a pretty prurient lot, and Kingsolver is no exception.  She obviously knows a lot about sexual reproduction, which is the answer to the age old question, \\"why are we here and how did we come to be like this?\\"  Every page drips with sex, sex among bugs, salamanders, people, goats, cows, puff balls, butteflys, moths, the American chestnut, various fungi and cayotes to name just a very few among this saturnalia of pleasure and fecundity.  Kingsolver makes D.H. Lawrence look life a prudish Victorian and Henry Miller a school boy.  They should know so much about sex!  Kingsolver mixes the mystery of love and male/female attraction along with all this in what is an overwhelmingly moral tome.  If you want to understand something about the harm we are doing ourselves and the planet and the terrible danger facing our progeny, read the Prodigal Summer.   wfh	2002-08-30
US	48846257	R37LUGN0HSPAZC	1573225436	266050518	The Sorrow of War: A Novel of North Vietnam	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Also the sorrow of peace	Bao Ninh's novel is, I assume, like most first novels, largely autobiographical.  Like his protagonist, Kien, Ninh was one of ten survivors from his unit of 500 which started the war with him in 1965.  This is a tough read, a story with tragedy scoring almost every page.  There are no MASH unit antics or Hogan's heros characters here, only unrelenting bleakness, pain, terror, and loss.  The Vietnamese began resisting the French occupation in small groups of guerillas before WWII.  Stanly Karnow, in his book, Vietnam: A History explains quite explicitly why the Vietnamese did not consider the French occupation as one of the culteral highlights of their history.  After the French were expelled by a ragtag army which had opposed the Japanese while the French cooperated with them back in the last good war, the United States subjected the people of Vietnam to our gentle mercies up until 1965 when it became obvious to all that many of the Vietnamese would never accept our installed leadership and artificial partioning of that country when it became obvious back in the late 50s that Uncle Ho was destined to win any free election of the people.  However, by the time Lyndon Johnson sent in the first large scale troop deployment, much of the South had already been destroyed, at least in the countryside, by the creation of \\"strategic hamlets,\\" in actuallity rural prisons, supposedly meant to protect the citizenry.  This was a strategy which had failed in Chaing Ki Shek's China years before and was equally successful in Vietnam.  Ninh/Kien's story really startes with him and a girl friend, Phoung, almost but not quite consumating their young love while skipping school, then skips back and forth beeen pre-war, post-war and wartime scenes. It is told mostly in flashbacks and stream of consciousness vignettes and is sometimes difficult for the unsophisticated reader to follow.  Kien goes from a poor but happy and extremely idealistic young student to warrior and finally back to student and author after ten years of unremiting war, violence and loss.  When he comes home to find Phoung still in the same apartment building in which he lived in the old days and still has an apartment, it seems as though he might have realized his dream of happiness.  However, near the end of the book we discover the terrible events and betrayals at the beginning of their seperation which make a successful reunion impossible for both.  For any who still think war is glory and honor and a test of courage and manhood, Ninh illustrates quite vividly that it is continuing horror, terror, chaos and blind chance which determines who lives and who dies. And sometimes the living envy the dead before the Sorrow of War has played its last chorus.  The government of Vietnam opposed the publication of this book, and it is easy to understand why, given the honesty with which life in postwar Hanoi is portrayed.  One of the most amazing things about the book is the almost total abscense of bitterness toward the Americans who invaded his country and started the war that destroyed so much of his life.  There is also an interesting parallel between the American Vietnam veteran's homecoming after their time \\"in country\\" was over, and the Vietnamese soldiers who fought and suffered so long and so greatly for the eventual victory.  The sorrow of war is almost overshadowed by the sorrow of his homecoming and all that he had lost as a result of that war.   As we continues this new war, Ninh's is a cautionary tale which should be read by anyone rejoicing at the idea the American military might can overcome any foe.  Vietnam proved a long time ago that it takes more than superior military equipment and a vastly stronger economy to win a war. Ninh tells us why.   wfh	2002-06-28
US	48846257	R1BKW6AXZW7EMG	0060670843	336019156	A New Christianity for a New World: Why Traditional Faith Is Dying and How a New Faith Is Being Born	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A THOUGHTFUL AND COURAGEOUS  DISCOURSE	Jack Spong came to my city this weekend to give a series of 4 lectures at a local Episcopal church.  Being a long time chucrh dropout (Methodist church) but accepting the premise that for millions of people a community of faith and personally meaningful religious tradition is extremely important, and having read a newspaper story which very sparingly outlined what would be the substance of Bishop Spong's lectures, I decided to commit approximately 8 hours of my weekend to hear and consider his ideas.  At the first of those lectures, I bought this book and just finished reading it.  Bishop Spong is a much better speaker than writer, though with this book that is not so evident as it was in the other of his books I bought and read that first day.  Spong obviously loves his faith tradition, has loved being a part of that tradition and, although he recognizes that most of the premises upon which that tradition is based make absolutely no sense in a world forever changed by our knowledge of astronomic, molecular and nuclear structure, by the elucidation of genetic and biochemical data convincingly demonstrating the interrelatedness of all of life, by the knowledge of and new discoveries related to the size and age of the universe and by the theories of relativity and quantum mechanics and the fact that these theories have borne fruit which in my early lifetime were the stuff of science fiction, his purpose is to reform rather than to try to destroy that tradition.  This book explores his premises and proposals in a lucid and intellgent manner which appeals especially to those millions like myself who find the language of the traditional church essentially as meaningless as the harangues of fundamentalist preachers and the performances of snake handlers and glass eaters.  Although it is very late in my life for such arguments to bear significantly on the way I will view the world (since, indeed, I already shared much of his view tho' I never before knew him), I believe Spong has rendered great service to the cause of his religious tradition.   We can only hope and trust that every faith tradition has somewhere in the lands they dominate, articulate, thoughtful and committed advocates like Bishop John Shelby Spong working to change those other sometimes violently militant exclusivist religions.  If you call yourself a Christian (and most especially if you consider yourself a fundamentalist Christian), you owe it to yourself, to your faith and to society in general to read this book.  wfh	2002-04-24
US	48846257	R3IO6DI5MDSMF7	1573928402	747934577	Live From the Gates of Hell: An Insider's Look at the Anti-Abortion Movement	Books	5	10	15	N	Y	"If you can keep your head when all about you..."	Kipling's poem, \\"IF,\\" must have had a place of honor on Jerry Reiter's wall when he was growing up, just as it did on the walls of the bedrooms of many young Christian boys when I was a child. Reiter, raised Catholic but \\"born again\\" as a teen and recruited by the extreme religious militants of the anti-abortion movement, came to his senses when faced with the true nature of all too many of the militant anti-abortion religious fundamentalists. For those of us who have been involved in providing abortions for the past 30 years, Reiter's revelations come as no surprise. What is surprising is that Reiter (like David Brock, who wrote \\"Blinded By The Right,\\" was for the extreme right wing of the Republican party), one of the movement's own and thus given great access to the crazy plans and insane paranoias of the extreme anti-abortion movement, was able to break away from the clutches of the cult-meisters of the antiabortion movement and all the other fringes composed of Christian religious nuts and the \\"rightious wing\\" of the Republican Party and reveal their secrets from the perspective of an insider. (And like Brock, he will be viciously attacked by the \\"ditto heads\\" of the Right without a single relevant fact being refuted.) What I want to know is, where are the terrorist hunters of the Bush administration and Ashcroft's FBI when murderers-by-proxy (in the mold of Osama Bin Laden and Charles Manson, the Helter Skelter guy) and terrorists who have been responsible for multiple deaths, grave injuries, and property damage in the millions of dollars are exposed for what they are. I suppose Ashcroft and our terror czar, Tom Ridge, and their witch hunters are so busy chasing their own tails and lighting red, yellow and orange caution lamps, and out hounding innocent ethnic Americans who happen not to be fundamentalist Christians -or indeed Christians of any type - that they will never have time to investigate the characters exposed in Reiter's book. Jerry Reiter is a rare Human. He may be \\"my kind of Christian.\\"<br />  If you really want to know something about the anti-abortion movement in this country and what it has whelped, read \\"Live From The Gates Of Hell.\\" And if you want to know how poor Michael Griffin, whose trial is exposed in this book and who was convicted of murder in the first abortion related killing in this country was driven mad enough to kill for the Svengali's of the truly Insane-Religious-Right, go to a fundamentalist Christian church \\"pastored\\" by an anti-abortion preacher and ask to see his copy of the video \\"Hard Truth;\\" which is truly hard, but a very long way from truth. And should you desire to know the hard truth about \\"Hard Truth,\\" e-mail me. wfhHuman. He may be \\"my kind of Christian.\\"   <BR>     If you really want to know something about the anti-abortion movement in this country and what it has whelped, read \\"Live From The Gates Of Hell.\\" And if you want to know how poor Michael Griffin, whose trial is exposed in this book and who was convicted of murder in the first abortion related killing in this country was driven mad enough to kill for the Svengali's of the truly Insane-Religious-Right, go to a fundamentalist Christian church \\"pastored\\" by an anti-abortion preacher and ask to see his copy of the video \\"Hard Truth;\\" which is truly hard, but a very long way from truth. And should you desire to know the hard truth about \\"Hard Truth,\\" e-mail me. wfh	2002-04-18
US	48846257	R1NIZFKHWFQPJ7	0449909336	378723538	The Fifties	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The 90's  --  Reprise of the 50's	This is the second of Halberstam's books that I've read.  After reading The Children, I decided that he was an author whose work was going to be well worth my time.  Having entered the fifties a teenager, but missing most of the last of the decade because I was out of the country and out of touch much of the time from Jan, 1955 to Jan, 1959 because of service in the US Navy, Halberstam's reprise of the late 40s and 50s was tremendously interesting to me.  It is especially interesting to note that the Republican Party's obcessions - domestic communism in the 50s and Bill Clinton's sins in the 90s - still do the country great disservice while advancing the cause of freedom and social justice not at all.  Halberstam's view that the advent of network television and the camera's coverage of news events, of that which had once been almost the exclusive province of print journalism, changed America's perception of the world and itself.  I agree with that as far as it goes.  However, \\"news\\" coverage as practiced in the 90s and today has little in common with news coverage in the 50s.  One wonders, looking at what passes for \\"news\\" programs today, where the giants of yeasteryear have gone.  Like the wonderful engineers who ruled at General Motors early in the decade, they have been replaced by the \\"money men\\" who came to rule GM in the late 50s and to rule television today, whose only interest is in the bottom line, the public interest be damned.  The \\"blandness\\" of the 50s as viewed by the images of that decade transmitted primarily by the network programing other than news programing from that era, is more than belied by Halberstam's extensive discriptions of the social, political and personal turmoil of a decade when supposedly nothing much happened.  As a teenager, I recall the cold terror that an unexpected flash of light on the horizon could elicit.  Was it going to be followed by the terrible mushroom cloud which we were all conditioned to expect at any moment?  Was there to be a reality check on the \\"duck and cover\\" routine practiced by school children, ostensibly developed to ward off the truly devastating effects of the ten megaton Soviet superweapons delivered by one of the missiles with which the USSR was rumored to have \\"gapped\\" us?  And I recall the anger I felt as a displaced Arkie, far from home in the fall of 1957, and the  winter and spring 1958, hearng about the crisis at Central High and reading the graffitti that covered the walls and flat surfaces of the Far East where ever our ships of the U.S. Seventh Fleet landed - \\"What about Little Rock?\\" and \\"Yankee, go home!\\"  Because of my Arkansas background, I saw and shared the anger, hurt and humiliation of my black shipmates at those signs as they realized that while they were supposedly protecting freedom around the world, at home their little brothers and sisters, children, parents and grandparents were treated, not so much like second class citizens as like another grossly inferior species with no feelings and few rights.  Halberstam describes and analyses it all, the warts and the beauties, the amazing successes and the abominal failures of the \\"quiet\\" decade.  Each decade should be so lucky as to have an biographer of Halberstam's stature.   wfh	2002-04-03
US	48846257	R3T5YEKY0O3O91	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Everything you always wanted to know but were afraid to ask	I don,t usually write a review of a book until it has been in print for a while.  I am making an exception for Blinded by the Right by David Brock.  Brock comes across initially as a whinnie gay guy who has been betrayed by his gay-bashing right wing \\"friends.\\"  Then he goes on to tell the factual story of the \\"Clinton Scandals\\" which all of us who know most of the principals back home in Arkansas knew was there all along.  From Robert Bartley to Ken Starr; from C. Boyden Gray to Clarence Thomas; from Michal Isikof to the late \\"chaplain\\" of the White Citizen's Councils of Arkansas' little boy Wesley Pruden Jr of the Washington Star (a chip off the old block if ever there was one); from the late Barbara Olsen to her husband, the current Solicitor General of the United States Ted Olsen; from the \\"pius\\" (as described by Brock) Hick Ewing to a whole bevy of Bobs; from Newtie G., Bob Barr, and Bob Livingston to Trent Lott and John Ashcroft; from Arkansas' own \\"caveman\\" (again Brock's characterization) Tim Hutchenson to a whole pod of killer whale right wing money bags like Rochard Mellon Scaife and the Coors clan, Brock hoists those he calls hypocrits and liars on their own petard...Given the fact that most Americans were not privy to a lot of accurate information concerning the amazing list of Republican dirty tricks which were used in an attempt to subvert the constitution in an attempted far right wing coup, it is gratifying to see that a large number of Americans who never before heard of David Brock or Bob Bartley are going to get a look at the filthy laundrey of the far right.  It is interesting to note that ever faithful  Dan Burton and the Republican dominated U.S. House of Representitives, even at this late date, are still actively involved in efforts to further besmirch the name of President Bill Clinton.  It is also interesting to note that many of the Brock described \\"hypocrites and liars\\" are serving in the administration of the current Geo. Bush.  I can hardly wait for the next round of Bush appointments, like Ted Olsen and John Ashcroft, to positions of executive power and the US Courts to raise their heads and train their eyes on new positions of trust in our government.  Congressional Democrats have not had much courage for the past decade; perhaps Brock's new book will inject a little backbone into all but the most timid and vulnerable.  Who will be the next of the right wing denizens to fall to conscience and truth telling?  Certainly there are many others who know the story from the inside.  Given the profitable nature of Brock's book, can it be long before someone like Gary Aldrich or Matt Drudge or one of the ubiquitious blond Barabrella \\"former federal prosecutors turned talking head\\" discovers the pot of gold at the end of a new tell-all expose?  You go, David!  And if you, the reader of this review, want to know what the Daddys Warbucks and all their camp followers did during the revolution, read Brock's book Blinded by the Right, and then check out Joe Conason's and Gene Lyons' fine tome, The Hunting of the President, written from an entirely different perspective.  And the Truth shall make you free!   wfh	2002-03-25
US	48846257	RAPKGR8AASL8Y	0306416409	652282969	Abortion: Law, Choice and Morality	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The definitive abortion primer	Daniel and Sidney Callahan, along with their contributors, have, way back in the 1980s presented us with the definitive work in all the abortion debate.  If you would understand what the abortion debate is all about, this book, along with The Facts of Life, by Harold Morowitz and James Trefil and my book, There is a Bomb in Gilead, are basically all that you need to read.  Understanding Differences is a group of 12 essays, 10 of which are written from either a Pro-Life or a Pro-Choice perspective -five on either side with the first two written from no particular political view point.  Each of the Pro-Choice or Pro-Life essays is critiqued at its end by an author from the opposite perspective and the editors, Daniel and Sidney Callahan writing the last two essays and critiqueing each others.  Daniel Callahan is a medical ethicist writing from an essential Pro-Choice perspective and Sidney is a clinical Psychologist writing from a religiously Pro-Life perspective.  They are a married couple who had six children, one of whom they tragically lost a few years ago.  Daniel was born and raised Catholic and Sidney converted as a young adult.  The book is the best exploration of the differing positions informing the abortion debate that I have ever read, and as I have been consumed by the issue for almost twenty years, and was trained in ob/gyn in the uears immediately preceding the Roe v. Wade era, I believe that I know as much about the various aspects of the abortion debate as any person alive. (...)   You need to get it and read it if you are really interested in the subject and desire to be adequately informed to debate the issue intelligently from either side, with yourself or others.  You really owe it to yourself to get and read it. wfh	2002-03-10
US	48846257	R17SBFHVX5RVJV	0312273193	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	40	50	N	N	Where the Starr and Ray reports got their start	Gene Lyons and Joe Conason, along now with the ever irrepressable David Brock, have done future historians a great service. Much of contemporary history will be gathered from contemporanious news articles and news magazine pieces. Conason and Lyons in this book graphically demonstrate why this can be very dangerous to the truth when one is writing about the presidency of William Jefferson Clinton. One of the great tragedies of the late 20th century turns out to have been the loss of the sorely missed Arkansas Gazette and its replacement by a chimera, the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, whose editorial and op/ed pages make those of the Wall Street Journal look positively progressive and benign. Lyons and Conason thoroughly explore all aspects of the \\"Clinton Scandals\\" leading up to but not including the 'Affaire Monique', and debunk both the stories written in major American news publications and those passed on by a truly amazing group of slimeball reporters, lawyers, politicians, talk show commentators and right wing columnists, some, like Christopher Hitchens and Chris Matthews, cleverly disquised as Democrats or left wing populists. I read this book several months ago and have been following the reviews of the more reactionay reviewers of The Hunting of the President in this forum. I am a life long Arkansawyer and know either personally or by sight and by their poisonous fruits most of the Arkansas based characters in this story. Like most of those of my generation who know these people, I was incredulous that they were given credibility and a forum for their wild, and for the most part totally unfounded, attacks on Bill and Hillary Clinton. While I am certain that there are areas of weakness in the characters of both Clintons, as indeed there are in all of us, the fact that they were attacked on all character fronts except one, in which the Clintons were the strongest, is truly remarkable. (Bill, like the vast majority of American politicians - indeed, like most alpha males - has had a few problems keeping his sword sheathed. Why do you suppose Dennie Hastert was chosen as Speaker of the House? He was the sole Republican representative serving at the time without a zipper problem!) From Jeff Gerth to Howard Fineman, from Sally Quinn to Steven Labaton, from the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette to the New York Times, from Jim Lahrer to the late unlamented John Robert Starr, from CBS news to Fox News, the American news media has much of which to be ashamed. If a free and unfettered press is truly the guardian of democracy, what are we to make of a \\"press\\" bound only by the rules of entertainment, sensationalism and the bottom line, only by self interest with little or no thought of the public interest? Lyons and Conason expose the American press in all its shame for all to see. And unlike Bill Clinton in the Monica affair, that was no biological imperative that the press was following. They were blinded by lust for money and notoriety, truth and fairness be damned! When all the books have been written about The Vast Right Wing Conspiracy, there will be more than enough shame to go around. And as David Brock's exit from the liar's closet proves, it is only a matter of time before they are written. Lyons and Conason wrote just the first of what will soon be a broad laser beam of books exposing the cockroach lawyers, the sloppy reporters, the politicized judges and Justices, the venal editors and publishers and all the rest, to the light which will illuminate all their dirt and filth. And Ted Olson wants to be on the Supreme Court? Fat chance! If I could give Lyons and Conason ten stars, I would. Get this book and read it. Get David Brock's book, Blinded by the Right, and read it. And the truth shall make you free!	2002-03-08
US	48846257	R2K1SCNDPNF2YV	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A strong case for a liberal education	Edward O. Wilson is a most unusual scientist and a rare human being. Consilience starts with a short discription of his boyhood interest in bugs and flowers and birds in the woods, fields and streams of rural Alabama and progresses to philosophy, religion, a wide range of the arts and humanities. He explores the sciences from nuclear physics and atomic structures to astrophysics and eventually the most complex biological systems known, and treats these in such a way that the educated reader can follow his logic and all but the most militantly theistic are compelled to agree with his thesis that there is indeed a potential basis for the unity of knowledge. His eventual plea is for voters to select intelligent and informed representatives. Those who make our laws and provide our political leadership should at least be able to read and discuss a book like Consilience if they are to provide rational policies for the next generations. Indeed, though he does not specifically state this, Dr. Wilson makes a very good case that should such our leaders be selected on the same basis they were in the last election cycle, that there may not be more than a very few generations after us. However, he is an optimist and believes that sooner or later we shall be forced by the rapid gains in new knowledge and new technologies, to select a new type of politician - those who not only will have the brain power to read such a book, but will have the inclination to do so. According to Wilson - and to common sense - if we continue to select presidents and senators and representatives whose reading habits and information sources extend no further than Fox News, CNN, the sports page, the Bible and western novels, we are going to be in deep do do. We soon will have even greater knowledge about how to alter our world and affect even our own evolutionary course. As has been so conclusively demonstrated over the course of the past three hundred years, knowledge and technological progress do not automatically confer wisdom. But Dr. Wilson shows us pretty convincingly that without knowledge, there is no wisdom. Consilience is a tour de force exploration of most of the major fields of scientific and humanistic inquiry over the past three hundred years. I suspect that Wilson is one of only a handful of authors who could have written this book. Give a copy to your candidates for congress, for state representative and your presidentential candidate, and then quiz him or her the next time you run into them. Wilson provides the questions very early in his book.	2002-03-07
US	48846257	R2NPJ7PVX1G21D	0449004392	262130304	The Children	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Can One Person Make a Difference? You Bet!	David Halbestam's monumental book, the children, is a hymn of praise to a remarkable group of young people who did much, perhaps most, of the heavy lifting of the civil rights movement. But it is also the story of how one man, James Lawson, influenced a movement and changed a nation. There are many heroes portrayed in Halberstam's book, but perhaps the one indispensable person in the success of the civil rights movement was not Martin Luther King, Jr., but James Lawson. This is not to diminish or belittle the contributions of King, for what more can a man give than his life. But even Halberstam doesn't seem to recognize that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 might never have come about had it not been for the remarkable acheivement of James Lawson in attracting and training the first group of young, tremendously dedicated non-violent protesters in Nashville in 1959 and 1960. This is one of the most inspirational books I have ever read, and while, as several of the reviewers have already noted, the book could have done with some paring of redundancies, if you want a story filled with heroes and heroines, with light overcoming darkness and the good guys winning, this is your book. It should be required reading for every young person in America. James Lawson, jailbird, \\"draft dodger\\" and the ultimate \\"outside agitator,\\" has lived a life of consequence and significance that most of us can only dream about. The remarkable thing is that he found other young people who wished to live lives equally challenging. Human beings, if they are lucky, are given only a few rare opprotunities in their lives to make a real and great impact on their world. Lawson, Nash, LaFayette, Bevel, Powell, Brown, Johnson and the wonderous John Lewis among many others, seized their opportunity, and made life better for not only millions of Black folk held hostage to racism and ignorance, but for millions of their white oppressors as well. The great tragedy is that as the Movement entered its period of greatest success, it was, like the Russian Revolution, seized by some of the most radical elements in what had been the fringes of the movement. And we lost Martin Luther King, Jr., the most effective voice of the nation's conscience.	2002-02-10
US	48846257	RUS24P4KBHTPY	067974021X	123129391	Fire in the Mind: Science, Faith, and the Search for Order	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A literary spectacular	George Johnson has taken on some of the most difficult issues and questions woven into the fabric of science and religion and seperates them into their component threads to be examined by ordinary readers. He explores various world views as seen from the mountains and plateaus of northern New Mexico, truly a Land of Enchantment. The vast majority of modern human beings take most of the information we process each day on faith, no less our ideas of science than our religious verities. Johnson explores these faiths in the context of the pueblos, mountains, cities and research institutions of this ancient land, and presents each of them with no hint of condescension or disparagement. A truly remarkable feat given his subject matter which ranges from bar fights in remote villages to sunsets brilliantly firing the walls of the Sangre de Cristo mountians to the rituals and traditions of the Catholic Church and the Assemblios de Dios, to those of the Tewas and the myths and rites of the most primative peoples of the region. This is the best book exploring the escatologies of science and religion that I have ever read. It makes me anxious to retire so that I can attend lectures at the Santa Fe Institute and explore the mesmerizing landscape of nortern New Mexico. Read it. You will never again think of the struggle between science and religion in the same way.	2002-02-09
US	48846257	RXE5YXOW9J136	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A literary masterpiece	As one who reads little current day fiction among the many volumes I consume each year, I feel compelled to add my voice to those raised in praise of Kingsolver's Poisonwood Bible.  What can you say about a book wnich was published over two years ago, has now 955 reviewers listed and continues to inspire reviewers at a prodigious rate.  Kingsolver has blessed us with a masterpiece, one which every Christian missionary aspirant should read before embarking on a journey to convert the heathen.  Rev. Price, much like Rev. Davidson in Sommerset Maugham's short story, Rain, goes where he and his religion are neither wanted nor needed and changes lives, including his, for the worse.  Kingsolver illustrates graphically the ignorance and hubris inherent in those who go to lands where they know nothing about the peoples and traditions, to impart their superstitions to the natives.  This is not to denigrate the truly good work done by those missionaries whose religion inspires them to do good works in fields in which they have special competence, but Kingsolver illustrates perfectly clearly the harm that can come from those proselytizers whose primary goal is to replace indiginous religious superstition with an imported variety.	2001-12-09
US	48846257	RSZ7UIJMQRPC1	0449908097	498012847	The Temple Bombing	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Greene is a writer of skill and depth	I picked this book up in a Boston bookstore a few years ago while attending a National Abortion Federation meeting. The title attracted me, as I was attending my first national abortion rights organization conference of abortion providers and was astounded by the level of fear and anxiety that I sensed among my compatriots.  It has been said that the true test of courage is not in doing what needs to be done without fear, but is in continuing to do so even in the face of great fear.  If this is in deed true, my colleagues in the National Abortion Federation must be among the most courageous people in the world. Many of those whom I met there had endured years of threat and ostracism, of attacks both verbal and physical, and most knew clinic workers and abortion providers who had been maimed or murdered or whose facilities had been bombed and burned.  And they continued their work even in the face of continuing threats to themselves, their families and their coworkers.  So Greene's book title was a magnet for me, pulling me in although I had never heard of Ms Greene or the Reform Temple bombing.  (I was in the Navy, serving in the Pacific when this incident occured and must never have seen any news reference to it.  I was perhaps much more attuned to the events in Arkansas in the 50's, and never had heard of it until I read Ms. Greene's account.)  The Temple Bombing is a masterwork by a master story teller, and although the ending is somewhat unsatisfactory in that the perpetrators were never caught and punished for their part in this heinous terrorist act - some of whom probably went on to other deeds even more evil like the the bombing of the Church in Birmingham which killed the four little girls - this is the way history played out in the South.  Much as many of us would like to change it.  Ms Greene has written a fine book with a truly heroic protagonist sympathetically and sensitively portrayed, and has given us a vision of an Atlanta and a time which long agoceased to exist.  For movie buffs, the temple bombed was that depicted in the wonderful movie, Driving Miss Daisy.	2001-12-04
US	48846257	R34XJC5MNM9U7O	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Even more important as the Taliban crumbles	Rashid's Taliban is a dense and difficult read - which I give only four stars only because it is dense and difficult,  but it may be one of the most important books available today for understanding the war in Afganistan, and even more importantly, how vital it is that we \\"get it right\\" in the war's aftermath.  As Rashid demonstrates very clearly, the Taliban rose to power in most of Afganistan primarily because it was the one group which was able to establish any sort of social and political stability in a country previously ruled by an almost infinite number of minor warlords and petty criminals.  In post-Russian war/pre-Taliban Afganistan it was as if the country had been taken over by various mobs (...) and ruled solely for the pleasure and gratification of the capos.  The Taliban, with the support of Pakistan and various oil interests and other states, changed this to a land ruled by militant religious fundamentalists, many of them foriegners with no agenda other than that instilled in them out of the vast ignorance of their \\"teachers\\" in the wretched religious schools of the middle east, governing on the basis of (...) \\"word from God\\" edicts and having the power of life and death over believers and unbelievers alike.  The Afgan people under the Taliban had a modicum of stability, but it was the stability of the grave and the cloister.  We, with the Afgan people, will have to find some middle ground between anarchy, crime and chaos, and religious tyranny and and a rule of terror.  Is it possible for a people who have never known even a moment of democratic rule to govern themselves in a modern state composed of many ethnic groups and traditions? (...) Can America's ruling elites and the Afgan people pull this off?  In Taliban, Rashid shows us exactly how difficult this will be.	2001-12-01
US	48846257	R3VH2G8GDFMTW3	0195079272	828267052	The Facts of Life: Science and the Abortion Controversy	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Facts the Pro-Life side needs but will ignor	Morowitz and Trefil (M&T I shall call them), two teachers at Geo Mason Univ started this short monograph as a friend of the court brief for one of the many abortion cases to reach the Supreme Court, so that the justices might have scientifically accurate and factual information to work with in some of their decisions. When Justice O'Connor made her famous statement to the effect that Roe v. Wade was a decision which was being overtaken by scientific advances in neonatology which were making survival of ever more immature infants possible, she did not have available reliable information of the sort M&T have put forth in this small gem of a book. I have been involved in providing abortion in my Ob/Gyn practice for a very long time and have made a serious and ongoing effort to educate both the public and my medical colleagues about the abortion controversy since 1984. One of the most difficult things for the average layperson, and even for physicians, to get a handle on has been exactly why 24 weeks gestational age of the fetus should make such a difference in the abortion debate. M&T have done everyone except for the militant anti-abortion fundamentalists a tremendous service by bringing together most of the scientific knowledge which bears on fetal development as it pertains to the higher functons of the central nervous system and newborn survival. As they state in the introduction to The Facts of Life, while the two sides in the abortion controversy will never admit to the validity of the conclusions drawn by the other side, we should at least have accurate information upon which to draw those conclusions. Morowitz and Trefil had done us a true service by providing much valuable information. wfh	2001-12-01
US	48846257	R15TAMJ53BHRJE	0385494114	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	5	18	31	N	N	Why are Will's critics so blind?	Scholars like Garry Wills and James Carroll seem to outrage and provoke tremendous response from Catholic fundamentalits in their attempts to further illuminate the already glaring faults of their beloved Catholic Church. I read Papal Sin several months before I became aware of Constantine's Sword, and wonder that any rational, informed person can quarrel with Wills' thesis. Wills, unlike Carroll in his attempt to highlight Christianity's two thousand year history of anti-semitism, doesn't try to cover nearly all Papal \\"sin\\", only tries to point out Papal sins that are current and ongoing; sins which continue to make the Church a much less effective institution in fostering acheivement of goals which almost all peoples can agree are good and desirable ends. Christianity in general, and the Catholic Church in particular, has been so hung up on, indeed, obscessed with, sexuality that Catholic theology as it pertains to relations between males and females living their lives in the non-cloistered world resembles nothing so much as church sanctioned medieval astronomys attempts to rationalize Ptolomy's account of the heavens with what were then contemporary scholars' observations of the heavens. How can any rational person, knowing the history of the church, accept the \\"truth\\" of Papal Infalability? Whether concerning issues of importance to both Catholics and non-Catholics such as birthcontrol and abortion, or those which pertain solely to Catholics - like issues of gender and marital status of clergy - the doctrine of Papal Infalability has been soundly rejected by nearly all non-Catholics and a significant majority of Catholics. And while the Church loudly and constantly proclaims birth control and elective abortion a sin, the Church only continues to etch in acid its own refusal to come to terms with the ongoing \\"sins\\" of the Pope and the Curea. Like most Americans of a certain age, even those like me who have no investment in the Catholic Church, I, like Wills, consider Pope John XXIII the Good Pope. All Christiandom waited hundreds of years for a \\"good\\" Pope to show up: I pray it doesn't take that long for another.<BR> Wills' book, Papal Sin, is a brave and noble effort by a well known Chatholic theologian and historian, who comes not to bury his Church, but to try to save it from those who would bury it in silly and indefensible doctrines and dogmas which have nothing to do with being either Christian or Catholic, but have everything to do with preserving the perks, the status and the power of a heirarchy, and the blind, unthinking belief of a minority of the \\"faithful\\", who are terrified of the implications of the truth. I give Papal Sin my highest recommendation, especially for the majority of rational Catholics still faithful to their Church. Catholic Fundamentalists, like Protestant Fundamentalists, should avoid it like the plague; it might infect them with doubt, a dis-ease deadly to religious fundamentalism.	2001-11-24
US	48846257	R12ZAQYHRBVW4P	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Why they hate us!	Chalmers Johnson has written an important book which will most unfortunately be little read. The last three books I have read are Blowback, Taliban by Ahmad Rashed, and Terror in the mind of God by Jeurgensmeyer. But for long years before this I have read books like The Otherside of the River and Red Star over China by Edgar Snow, A History of Vietnam by ???, Fire in the Lake, Dispatches, plus The Pentagon Papers and dozens of other informative and prescient works. Perhaps one of the best was The Poisonwood Bible. But Johnson's work brings together many of the loose ends that large numbers of Americans must have been dimmly aware of for the past 50 plus years. Like Johnson, I was in the navy on an LST for almost three years of the four years I was in, just a little later than Johnson's tour, Jan 1955 to Jan, 1959. And like Johnson, I was devoutly patriotic for all of those years, and I believed that our government was perhaps the most altruistic intitution ever concieved by man. (Indeed, I believe that it could still be were it not for the inattention and civic laziness of most of our citizens.) It was not until I read The Pentagon Papers in about 1974 or '75 that I realized that I could not depend solely on the daily newspaper and TV's accessment and reporting of the days events to inform me of what I should be aware of as an American citizen, responsible for the actions and inactions of my government. I pray that Johnson's book gets the readership it deserves, however, I am not terribly optimistic that this will be the case. (...)(I just read this for the first time since I submitted it.  Unfortunately, the \\"editors\\" of this feature have seen fit to remove the meat of my comments about the book from this review, pretty much gutting it.  I appologize to those of you who thought you were going to get a review of the book when you read this.   6/24/02 wfh)	2001-11-01
US	48846257	R1Q5RX3HZW2CMD	0520232062	266017875	Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	5	32	35	N	Y	A new standard text for seminary libraries	Terror in the mind of God is a remarkable work made all the more remarkable by the author's dispassionate portrayal of people who, in every other facet (except that facet, religious belief, which has consumed and overwhelmed all the other elements of their humanity) of their lives seem to be no different from the reasonable and decent \\"normal\\" people who espouse Christian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Buddhist,or Jewish beliefs. Perhaps a major difference which sets apart those who kill, and in some cases die, for their religious beliefs is that there is never the slightest element of doubt in the minds of the true believer, and this total belief by religious fundamentalists of any faith in a cosmology which unbelievers find incredible, is always dangerous. (Didn't someone smart once say, \\"I don't care what you believe about God so long as you don't believe it totally.\\") Juergensmeyer has managed to elicit and portray their fanaticism in such a way that the reader is never tempted to laugh uproarously at even the most fantastic, unbelievable and outrageous claims of these \\"true believers\\". I've no experience with Jewish, Islamic, Sikh, Hindu or Buddhist true believers, but having lived all of my adult life in Northwest Arkansas and provided abortions in my medical practice in area surrounded by \\"true believers\\" from the furtherest fringes of the Christian Right and having been the target of Christian antiabortion fundamentalists on numerous occasions in the past, I can testify that Jeurgensmeyer knows his terrorists. The folks who have targeted me and my practice seem on first glance to be concerned and reasonable people, at least until the subject turns to abortion or gays, evolution or prayer in the schools. Then their eyes literally glaze and they begin to spout utter nonsense as though reading from a text. I have been on talk shows, debates and public forums with them, sitting in a chair next to them, and were I a fearful man, easily intimidated, it would have been a most frightening experience. Of course, terror is what they want and intend to inspire in both their victims and in those observing, just as Jeurgensmeyer said. But if their actions cannot terrify those of us at whom they are aimed, what is the point? Unfortunately, the terrorists who confront us today have certainly managed to terrify a significant portion of the American citizanry. We can only hope that fear doesn't rob us of our collective wits, although the performance of the current military and political leadership in this country (with the glaring exception of Colin Powell and the California congresswoman - I wish I could remember her name - who cast the lone vote against our current Asian adventure)does not inspire confidence. This book, coupled with Ahmed Rashid's book, Taliban, should be required reading for anyone who aspires to a position of leadership in this country over the next fifty years or so, and should certainly be on the curriculum of any religious institution which purports to instruct as opposed to indoctrinate religious leaders. Religious belief in the service of peace and justice, of solice and relief, has been one of the great blessings of mankind. I am just not sure that this benign aspect of religion has ever been enough to compensate for its more malignant faces.	2001-10-28
US	48846257	R2U4XBA07PCTZI	039585993X	129080360	An American Requiem: God, My Father, and the War That Came Between Us	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Carrol has become one of our most important socialy commentators	So far as I can remember, this is the first book of James Carrol's I read, though certainly not the last one.  I already placed a review of Constantins Sword on amazon, and have enjoyed again today, reading the many vicious and vitriolic \\"reviews\\" of his work in this book and \\"the Sword\\", as I have in the past.  I find it amazing, and more than a little amusing, that some of those giving Carrol's works here, in \\"the Sword\\" and for his new book, House of War, have the intelligence to place a series of readable letters together.  However, it is obvious that most have neither read the books nor have any idea how to respond other than with an endless series of \\"Swift-Boating\\" attacks on the author.  When I read this work, sometime before I was even aware of amazon.com, and its reviews, I found it a compelling and poignent history of a family conflicted and torn apart by a generational divide of seemingly overwhelming distance and differences - differences of experience, of methods of thought and speaking and commitment to seemingly unresolvable moral struggles.  I think of all the truly anguishing stories in this book, for me, the most painful is the son's march on and arrest in front of his father's workplace, the Pentagon, and the attempts by him and his family to reconcile this seemingly unforgivable betrayal with they obviously still strong love for one another.  This is a strong and well written story of strong and faithfilled people, whose strengths and eventual faith differences tear at the foundation of their love and the fabric of their lives.  I intend to read Carrol's new book, House of War, and will place a review of it on line as soon as I receive it from amazon.  I saw Carrol reading, discussing and answering intelligent questions about his newest book on CSpan2 yesterday, and can hardly wait to read it myself.  And I look forward to seeing how the poor, deluded, and terribly misinformed \\"Swift-Boat warriors\\" of this country's far right who are constantlyat work, try to tear and rend this newest work by a great author.  wfh	2001-07-29
US	48846257	R114JT2JO4M1QK	0684818906	668866041	First in His Class: A Biography Of Bill Clinton	Books	5	39	57	N	N	Almost (but not quite) a Clinton hagiography	I did not read this book until a few weeks ago, long after David Maraniss was being interviewed on almost every cable news show on almost a daily basis.  My impression from the interviews (unfortunately shaped almost entirely by the tone of the interviewers' questions) was that this was just another hatchet job done on the Clintons by just another right-wing hatchet man a la David Brock and his ilk.  Whoa!  Not so!  This is a fine and well researched exploration of much of Bill Clinton's life up to 1993.  I have known the former president and his first lady since he ran for congress in 1974, and we have many friends in common here in Arkansas, an awfully lot of whom are women (I am an Ob/Gyn.) While I have heard the ugly rumors of Bill's infidelity for most of the 27 years I have known them, I've yet to meet or take a medical history from any woman who ever admitted that Bill Clinton ever made an in apprpriate move on her.  I know dozens with whom he flirted over the years, most of whom were highly attracted to him and more than a few who, like Paula Jones, would probably have been willing to be his &quot;girlfriend.&quot;  But as far as I know, his reputation as a roue, at least since 1982 or 83, is vastly overstated.  And given the intense scrutiny he has been under all that time, I suspect that he has had far fewer amorous adventures in the past 19 or 20 years than the average national politician on either the left of the right.  But back to Maraniss' book - I found it eminently fair and balanced.  Certainly Clinton has some unattractive traits, but he has never been mean, cowardly, vicious, nor even hypocritical (at least not when judged by current Republican standards.) Nor has he been venal, judgemental, or vendictive, as so many of his enemies have been.  Certainly Clinton, like all of us, has made mistakes in his life.  One can't live a life so active and involved as his and not hurt some or disappoint others, even while trying to do the best one can.  Maraniss accurately caught his compassion and his empathetic nature, neither of which is phony (unlike the pseudo-compassion and faked empathy of our &quot;compassionately conservative&quot; current resident of the White House.)  This book should be compulsory reading for Clinton haters and for aspiring politicians.  Unfortunately, we may not see his equal again in the White House for a long, long time.  Probably the greatest tragedy for this country and for Clinton's presidency was the ascendency in Arkansas of the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, whose editorial policies make those of the Wall Street Journal look positively progressive, even benign.  The editorialists and columnist of this newspaper propagated and promoted rumors and outright lies about the Clinton's to the national media for the duration of his presidency and both national campaigns.  Unfortunately, Maraniss doesn't pick up on this aspect of the &quot;Clinton scandals&quot; any better than did the New York Times or the Washington Post, and therefor gives as much credence to many of the lies and rumors as did the Office of the Independent Council.  Had he checked a little further, he might have come to many of the same conclusions as do Gene Lyons and Joe Conason in their fine book, The Hunting of the President. However, for what it is, it is a fine book and a real contribution to the historical record, which will treat Bill and Hillary Clinton with far greater respect than it will treat most of their detractors.	2001-07-28
US	48846257	R18ELQYMJMCHF3	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Carroll's Triumph over Evil	James Carroll's love of his Church and his faith can only be explained by his ability to find the good in the very flawed Christian religion while rigorously attacking its obvious and historic flaws.  Anyone with any extensive knowledge of western history and the Bible, already knows much of Carroll's material.  However, he approaches the Christian Church's sinfilled history of violence against the Jews and it's own members who have questioned its own hate-full teachings, as one whose deepest wish is to reform, not to destroy, making his history poignant and lucid.  He is much kinder to the terminal Piuses and those failed successors to the good Pope, John XXIII, than their record deserves.  But as one whose aim is truly to  reform as well as to accuse, he ends his history much like Edger Snow ended his extraordinary exploration of America's relationship to Asia in 1961 - The Other Side of the River - with an outline of a way for the Church and its faithful to both amend the sins of its past and to avoid the terrible results which its present path portends for the future.  It is a dense and difficult read, which could have done with a little less reiteration, however, given the leaderships propensity to repeat the mistakes of their perdicessors again and again, perhaps iteration and reiteration and re-reiteration is necessary.  Catholic fundamentalists will have as hard a time understanding Carroll position as protestant fundamentalists have with a reading of liberal Christian theology.  Closed minds are never opened to rational thought and none are so blind as those which will not see.	2001-04-02
US	48846257	RVYX95DUPNU02	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	5	80	82	N	N	Patterson triumph:  Protect and Defend	I had never heard of Richard North Patterson until I read this book.  I am a 65 year old Gynecologist who does not read a lot of fiction, but since reading Protect and Defend (P&amp;D), I have read two other works by Patterson: the newly retitled Caroline Masters and No Safe Place.  While these are not so fine as Protect and Defend, which I consider on a plane with The Poisonwood Bible by Barbara Kingsolver and The Brothers Karamazov by Dostoyevski, they are also compelling books of their genre.  Back to P&amp;D - As a close observer of the political scene for the past 50 years and one with an extensive and hardwon knowledge of the abortion issue and its advocates on both sides, this book is a like a college course in current American political life and mores as well as the highly complex and agonizing partial birth abortion controversy.  I was surprised and pleased that someone who was neither a physician nor a politician could &quot;get it right&quot; on so many levels: current day partisan political infighting over a supreme court nominee, campaign finance and the serious consequences of its current practice, the highjacking of the once responsible Repubilcan Party by special interests and the Religious Right, the extreme difficulty of adhering to principle by politicians dependent on the hugh sums of money poured into the politican system by one issue interest groups on both the left and the right, and last but not least, the complexity of the compelling legitimate arguments on both sides of the abortion issue.  While North might seem to favor the Pro-choice forces, he demonstrates admirably the compelling arguments and the sincerity of many in the rank and file on the Pro-life side in his portrayal of the Tiernay parents and Senator Chad Palmer, while portraying accurately the crassness and insensitivity of radical partisans on both sides in his picture of the Christian Committment's attorney's (Pro-life) and the Anthony's Legions' leader's (Pro-choice) willingness to destroy anyone unwilling to march the last mile with them.  I have recommended this book to every friend and aquaintance and patient I have seen in the last month, since I bought and read it, and will continue to do so.	2001-03-05
