US	48854119	R1L238LTZKOQAK	1588465136	996814768	Laws of the Resurrection: Rules For Playing Mummies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MET Mummies, Oh My!	This book contains all the rules you need for live-action Mummy games, based off their gameline Mummy: the Resurrection. Like the other live-action World of Darkness games, it contains all the basic Mind's Eye Theatre rules, and the standard photos and signature character fiction (which actually fits in pretty well with the mood and setting). However, it also includes stuff specific to Mummies. After getting through the basics, the book introduces Mummies, the Holy Land and the Djinn. Mention is made of ancient Egyptian history and mythology (complete with a deity list), up to the events that caused the return of Osiris and the mummies. Theres a brief look at the various Mummy factions (like the Cults of Isis and Osiris) and a glossary of Egyptian, Greek and Arabic terms. Theres also a look at the mummies homelands in the Web of Faith, setting details for Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the Underworld.<br />Chapter Two covers the advantages, traits and weaknesses of the Mummy splats, each based off the ancient Egyptian parts of the soul (the Ka which guards the physical body, the Ba which carries knowledge from the underworld, the eternal Sahu, the Khu which connects to the divine and the dark urges of the Khaibit). Following this is the chapter on character creation, which includes all of the rules, Traits, Abilities, Backgrounds and Influences, specifically geared towards playing mummies (particularly the Backgrounds, such as Ka, Tomb, Vessel and so forth). Theres also a list of mummy specific Merits and Flaws, and details on Willpower and Sekhem (mystical energy). Then theres an entire chapter on Hekau, ancient Egyptian magic. It includes things like alchemy, necromancy, name magic, weather control (even calling down the Ten Plagues!) and making ushabtis. All are arranged in the standard Basic-Intermediate-Advanced format, but each one includes numerous rituals rather than a set list of powers.<br />Chapter five covers the basic Mind's Eye Theatre stuff: rules for tests, combat, using weapons, mass challenges, derangements, etc. Theres also the mummy specific stuff, including the rules for Balance, being judged, death and rebirth (mummies are functionally immortal, but they still have to spend time in the underworld between resurrections), loosing Sekhem, corruption, aging, disease, Vampires, the Veil and so on. The next chapter also covers general stuff on Storytelling and running a live-action game. Finally the book closes out looking at allies and enemies. The Apepnu (bane-mummies) are covered, along with their undead servants, cannibal cultists and so forth. Theres also mention of the Followers of Set and Hashashinn vampires, Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani wizards, shapeshifters (were-jackals, cobras, cats and crocodiles) and even other mummies who don't serve Osiris (including the Incan Cappacocha and the Asian Wu'Tian).<br />Overall, this is a wonderful book, giving you and your players the chance to portray the ancient Egyptian &quot;undying&quot; in their dark battle against the forces of Apep (corruption). Unlike the other World of Darkness games, you portray a hero fighting to restore ancient balance to a dying world. Its both a dark game, and a game of hope. In addition, it draws very heavily on Egyptian and Middle Eastern mythology (ie Set, Osiris, mummies, Djinn, Apep, etc) and covers Egypt and Arabia in the World of Darkness. Overall, this is an awesome game, either by itself or in conjunction with other Live Action games (especially Vampire, Mage, Werewolf and Wraith)combat, using weapons, mass challenges, derangements, etc. Theres also the mummy specific stuff, including the rules for Balance, being judged, death and rebirth (mummies are functionally immortal, but they still have to spend time in the underworld between resurrections), loosing Sekhem, corruption, aging, disease, Vampires, the Veil and so on. The next chapter also covers general stuff on Storytelling and running a live-action game. Finally the book closes out looking at allies and enemies. The Apepnu (bane-mummies) are covered, along with their undead servants, cannibal cultists and so forth. Theres also mention of the Followers of Set and Hashashinn vampires, Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani wizards, shapeshifters (were-jackals, cobras, cats and crocodiles) and even other mummies who don't serve Osiris (including the Incan Cappacocha and the Asian Wu'Tian).<br />Overall, this is a wonderful book, giving you and your players the chance to portray the ancient Egyptian &quot;undying&quot; in their dark battle against the forces of Apep (corruption). Unlike the other World of Darkness games, you portray a hero fighting to restore ancient balance to a dying world. Its both a dark game, and a game of hope. In addition, it draws very heavily on Egyptian and Middle Eastern mythology (ie Set, Osiris, mummies, Djinn, Apep, etc) and covers Egypt and Arabia in the World of Darkness. Overall, this is an awesome game, either by itself or in conjunction with other Live Action games (especially Vampire, Mage, Werewolf and Wraith)	2004-05-10
US	48854119	R1HUIPNI5I8RYL	1565044517	110644772	Sorcerer: The Hedge Wizard's Handbook (World of Darkness)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good Idea But Some Slight Flaws	This older book delves into &quot;hedge magicians&quot; for the World of Darkness in general, not just Mage: the Ascension. Unfortunately, its nowhere near as good as the revised edition, but theres still some good info to be found here. The introduction makes a point of how &quot;sorcerers&quot; have been overlooked by &quot;True&quot; Mages, and also tries too hard to make distinctions. Basically, the introduction gives a look at what &quot;hedge magic&quot; is and why people practice it, as well as what its like to play as a seeker after occult knowledge (from the point of view of an Arcanum investigator). It then closes out look some &quot;basic rules&quot; (ie sorcerers aren't members of Crafts, they don't work True Magic, etc) which are basically artificial distinctions that few Mages pay attention to anyway.<br /> The next chapter takes a look at Sorcerer societies. Five groups get full write-ups complete with histories, magical styles and connections to other supernaturals, including the high ritualists of the Ancient Order of Aeon Rites, the Balamob Mayan shaman, the Mormon mystics of the Nephite Priesthood, the Nigerian Uzoma priests and the new age Thal'hun. Minor groups like the Irish Fenian, Mogen ha Chav kabbalists, Dozen Priests of the Pythian Order and others also get brief mention. However, as good as the full write ups are, some of the things have now changed with the metaplot (ie, Balamob and Uzoma joining the Dreamspeakers, Nephites becoming Choristors and the Thal'hun disbanding and being reabsorbed into a new group called the Star Council).<br /> The next chapter covers character creation, including a handful of new Traits, Archetypes and Backgrounds, as well as some appropriate Merits and Flaws. Some of the stuff is a bit overpowered though (immortality for instance), but most of it fits the mood and themes of the World of Darkness. Theres also a chart for converting &quot;hedge magic&quot; into Disciplines, Arcanoi or Spheres (for sorcerers who die, Awaken or are Embraced). Its an okay system, but again slightly unbalanced. Following this is an entire chapter on &quot;hedge magic&quot; covering casting, systems and common foci and styles. Theres also over a dozen Paths (and associated rituals), magical effects such as shapeshifting, divination, speaking with spirits, alchemy, healing, controlling elements, making magical items and so forth. Unfortunately, the Paths aren't always well defined.<br /> Theres also a chapter of templates, like the shapeshifting hitchhiker, antiquarian, street prophet and secret agent/witch. Nothing interesting, but it seems like all of the sorcerers in this chapter are not members of any of the above described groups. The appendix includes sorcerers of note, like Cagliostro, the wandering African Uzoma thief Taneela Rangi Ya Fedha and the disturbingly mysterious &quot;Gretchen&quot;, as well as some cool magical items like the love poppet, vision skull and a demonic mask. In addition to a character sheet, theres also a decent bibliography and list of websites. Overall, this is a good book, especially if you want information on things like the Balamob, Nephites or Uzoma. Otherwise, just save your money and buy Sorcerer revised. You get more up-to-date systems and mechanics (including way more paths), plus it meshes up better with the current setting.ho die, Awaken or are Embraced). Its an okay system, but again slightly unbalanced. Following this is an entire chapter on &quot;hedge magic&quot; covering casting, systems and common foci and styles. Theres also over a dozen Paths (and associated rituals), magical effects such as shapeshifting, divination, speaking with spirits, alchemy, healing, controlling elements, making magical items and so forth. Unfortunately, the Paths aren't always well defined.<br /> Theres also a chapter of templates, like the shapeshifting hitchhiker, antiquarian, street prophet and secret agent/witch. Nothing interesting, but it seems like all of the sorcerers in this chapter are not members of any of the above described groups. The appendix includes sorcerers of note, like Cagliostro, the wandering African Uzoma thief Taneela Rangi Ya Fedha and the disturbingly mysterious &quot;Gretchen&quot;, as well as some cool magical items like the love poppet, vision skull and a demonic mask. In addition to a character sheet, theres also a decent bibliography and list of websites. Overall, this is a good book, especially if you want information on things like the Balamob, Nephites or Uzoma. Otherwise, just save your money and buy Sorcerer revised. You get more up-to-date systems and mechanics (including way more paths), plus it meshes up better with the current setting.	2004-05-10
US	48854119	R104OCYUEII1TL	1588464156	740130890	Tradition Book: Verbena (Mage: The Ascension)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Old Ways Will Survive	Continuing the phenomenal revised Trad books, this one takes a look at the witches and pagans of the Verbena. Beginning with a prologue telling the tale of New Hope Farms (the Verbena introduced in the original book; nice touch) and their confrontation with the death of the Old Ways on Beltane night, this book shifts to the introduction, complete with a pagan lexicon and mention of living life to it's fullest and preserving the Old Ways in the face of modernity. The book then goes to the Verbena history, told by New Hope Farms. It starts with the Wyck and the Aeduna, ancestors of the Verbena, and then shifts into classical Greece and Rome. Sidebars tell of the Olympian Gods special to the Verbena, famous Verbena (Medea, Hippocrates, Merlin, etc) and even the question of Lilith's existence (many Verbena don't believe in her actually). The book then looks at the Celts (and the House Diedne fiasco), the dark ages (with a sidebar on the Old Faith for Dark Ages: Mage players), the Burning Times, the Tradition's formation under Nightshade, the schism caused by Nazi rune carvers in WW II, gay rights movements and the modern rebirth of paganism. It then closes out looking at religion, medicine and relationships with the others (and their common roots with the Dreamspeakers, Ecstatics, Euthanatoi and the Progenitors).<br />The second chapter is really juicy, containing details on Verbena culture, organization, Circles of note (small groups focusing on Asatru, bardic traditions, Voudon, etc) and Verbena around the world. Sacred sites like Stonehenge, Salem, Glastonbury Tor and the Pacific Northwest are mentioned, followed by their advantage: the Paths of the Wyck, which lets them travel from pagan site to pagan site. Then we see the four factions of the Verbena: the Gardeners of the Tree who preserve their family's pagan traditions, the primordial shamans of the Twisters of Fate, the new-ager Moon-Seekers who adapt modern beliefs to the Old Ways, and the Lifeweavers who eschew culture and rites in favor of spontaenous life magics (like shapeshifting). A great write up of the Verbena Paradigm is written up, complete with views on the Craft, the Tellurium, the Spheres and various pagan Foci. Theres also a really cool look at Life Magics in general, like healing, shape-shifting, etc. Verbena Rotes are given (as well as Old Faith systems for Dark Ages players), details on Familars, plus some new Merits/Flaws. Other Trad Books probably should have included all these cool bits, but alas.<br />The third Chapter takes a look at Verbena of note, like Medea, Merlin, Nightshade and the singature character, a Candomble priest called Hector de Xango. Details for all-Verbena chronicles are given, like major themes, sex & sexuality, related Traditions (like the Dreamspeakers or Ecstatics) and even a look at Verbena traditions from around the world and historical Chronicles (like the Burning Times, WW II, ancient Rome and even long range Chronicles following the Avatars incarnations). Theres also a sample cabal, New Hope Farms, an organic farming commune made up of the Verbena from the old splat book (but updated and much cooler) who now train young Verbena. The book gives some interesting, if expectable, templates: the rune-carver, Voudon priestess, storm witch, shapeshifter, eco-activist, new-ager, etc. Nothing unexpected really. Theres also the ending (bringing the story full circle) and a brief mention of Wicca and various Wiccan/pagan/new age references: The Wicker Man, Scott Cunningham, Frazer's Golden Bough, Starhawk, etc. Again, this is stuff most people probably would expect, but nice to have anyway. Over all, this is a wonderful book for Mage, and even people who don't play Verbena )(or related Traditions) will find use in things like the exploration of pagan beliefs, the ancient history section and Life Magic.w culture and rites in favor of spontaenous life magics (like shapeshifting). A great write up of the Verbena Paradigm is written up, complete with views on the Craft, the Tellurium, the Spheres and various pagan Foci. Theres also a really cool look at Life Magics in general, like healing, shape-shifting, etc. Verbena Rotes are given (as well as Old Faith systems for Dark Ages players), details on Familars, plus some new Merits/Flaws. Other Trad Books probably should have included all these cool bits, but alas.<br />The third Chapter takes a look at Verbena of note, like Medea, Merlin, Nightshade and the singature character, a Candomble priest called Hector de Xango. Details for all-Verbena chronicles are given, like major themes, sex & sexuality, related Traditions (like the Dreamspeakers or Ecstatics) and even a look at Verbena traditions from around the world and historical Chronicles (like the Burning Times, WW II, ancient Rome and even long range Chronicles following the Avatars incarnations). Theres also a sample cabal, New Hope Farms, an organic farming commune made up of the Verbena from the old splat book (but updated and much cooler) who now train young Verbena. The book gives some interesting, if expectable, templates: the rune-carver, Voudon priestess, storm witch, shapeshifter, eco-activist, new-ager, etc. Nothing unexpected really. Theres also the ending (bringing the story full circle) and a brief mention of Wicca and various Wiccan/pagan/new age references: The Wicker Man, Scott Cunningham, Frazer's Golden Bough, Starhawk, etc. Again, this is stuff most people probably would expect, but nice to have anyway. Over all, this is a wonderful book for Mage, and even people who don't play Verbena )(or related Traditions) will find use in things like the exploration of pagan beliefs, the ancient history section and Life Magic.	2004-05-03
US	48854119	RFM66ETAQ2K9Y	1565043065	193145359	Mokole: Changing Breed Book 6 (Werewolf: The Apocalypse)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Gaia's Memory	This book is everything you need to play the Mokole, were-reptiles who remember (and embody) Gaia's past, the days of the Dragon Kings (dinosaurs). As naturally, the book opens with a comic adventure telling of the Garou Peter Ward's quest to Australia to meet with the Mokole themselves and learn of his heritage. The book then gives the typical introduction, lexicon of terms and an explanation of what it is to embody the dragons, dinosaurs and sea serpents of the past through your Rage. From there it goes on to a great history, telling of the Mokole's creation and the reptilian civilizations of prehistoric times. The Mokole can even remember previous Apocalypses (like the one that destroyed the dinosaurs) and fully expect to live through this one. Details on the Wars of Rage and the War of Shame are given, along with lost Fera (were-bulls, boars and bats) known only to the Mokole. In addition, brief mention is made of human times, like ancient Egypt, the Slave Trade and so forth (&quot;western&quot; history doesn't really matter, since most Mokole come from the tropics).<br />The next chapter covers the four Streams (tribes) of the Mokole: the Gumagan of Australia who share ties to the Dreamtime, the Makara priest-kings of India and neighboring lands, the primordial Mokole-Mbembe of Africa, the American Southeast and the Amazon and the scholarly Zhong Lung of East Asia's Hengeyokai. Specifics are given for each (like how the Gumagan have strong ties to the Umbra, differences in Mnesis and how the Zhong Long and Makara follow different auspices). Views on other Fera, vampires and even stranger factions (like mummies, voodooists, tribal shaman and Egyptian magi) are given, along with details on names and Duties (the Mokole Litany). The next chapter gives the crunchy bits, covering the Mokole solar auspices,  new Traits, forms (not all are crocodiles or alligators; gila monsters, Komodo dragons and gharials are also represented) and Crinos traits (their Crinos form consists of various traits borrowed from other reptiles, like horns, armor, wings, frills, venom and so forth). Details on Totems are also given, along with new Totems, Fetishes and Merits/Flaws. All of these fit right in, from the reptile Totems to Fetishes drawn from Aboriginal culture.<br />The next chapter covers Gifts for the Mokole, including general Gifts, solar/seasonal auspice Gifts and Stream Gifts, many of which are quite interesting. A number of useful (and uniquely Mokole) Rites are also presented. In the following chapter, we are given a look at useful information on Mokole breeding, Mnesis (their racial memory), the &quot;Innocents&quot; (ghosts of dead metis), camps and relationships with the Nagah (were-snakes). We also get the standard templates, like the Native Rights guerilla and the rainforest ethnobotanist, and NPCs, including Uncle Monday (a centuries old Florida Conjure Doctor), Sister Rae (who has True Faith in the sun), Morwangu (who was involved in the story in the book) and Braney (a Wyrm corrupted children's show host). The book closes out nicely with details on RL crocodilians, monitors and gila monsters, the hatred for vampires (particularly Setites), Mnesis spirits, the Dragon Kings, prehistoric birds and marsupials that once served as Mokole kin, and stories set in the final days or the War of Rage.<br />The end also includes the typical template for creating and running Mokole characters. This can be used just as easily for western Mokole as it can for the eastern Makara/Zhong Lung (who follow slightly different creation rules). Needless to say, this book blew me away. The Mokole are probably my favorite Fera, and this book is invaluable for playing them. I also appreciated the strong focus on Australian Aboriginal culture which permeates much of this book. All in all, I think this book is quite useful for any Mokole Chronicles (and quite a head ache for those who want to try and figure out the World of Darkness's &quot;cosmology&quot;).).	2004-05-02
US	48854119	RSZK4W72YO99T	1565044398	415141651	Sorcerer Revised Edition *OP (Mage: The Ascension)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Magic Vs. Magick?	This book covers the so-called Hedge Wizards, or sorcerers, as opposed to those who practice &quot;True&quot; magic. Although their magic is not as flexible or open-ended as that of &quot;true&quot; magic, it can be just as potent and is much more focused. Plus it doesn't have Paradox! The book opens with a general intro fiction about a farmer calling down rain to end a drought, and then moves on to a typical introduction and terminology. Surprsingly, the first chapter (written in-character by an acolyte) delves into what &quot;hedge magic&quot; is, and the various hows and whys that accompany it. This then quickly moves to the next chapter, which points out very clearly that the distinctions between &quot;hedge magic&quot; and &quot;true magic&quot; are pretty much pointless, as both are magic and only a handful of scholarly types even make the distinction. We then get a look at how Sorcerers fit into all of the Traditions, from Akashic martial artists to Dreamspeaker shaman to Euthanatos necromancers to Verbena witches, often because of cultural affiliations. They exist amongst the Hollow Ones and Orphans too, and even the Technocracy has those who specialize in &quot;advanced&quot; chemistry, engineering or other such sciences.<br />From there we are given a look at &quot;independant&quot; societies as well, the ancient Egyptian cults of Isis and Osiris, the Bata'a voudonists and santeros (who maintain a seperate identity within the Dreamspeakers), the anti-Semitic infernalists of the Nebuu-Afef, the near maruaders of the Silver Portal, the UFO conspiracists of the Star Council and more. The smaller factions are also looked at, and the reasons for their decline (the African Uzoma and Mayan Balamob joining the Dreamspeakers, for instance, the Irish Fenian and Mormon Nephites joining the Celestial Chorus and the dark pagan Asatru Futhark being destroyed). The next chapter gives the general Character Creation guidlines, along with new rules, Backgrounds, Traits and Merits/Flaws specific to Sorcerers. Most of the stuff is quite appropriate too. This is followed by a look at roughly 15 Paths, like shapeshifting, teleportation, alchemy, summoning, weather control, elemental control, divinations, shadow control, alchemy and so forth. Each path includes a number of rituals and even variations on paths (like necromancy, high-tech chemistry and so forth).<br />In the next chapter we are given a look at another alternative: psyhics, along with rules for psychic powers as magic, chi-manipulation or whatever (this option is especially appropriate for Akashics, Dreamspeakers or Ecstatics). Like with hedge magic, some 20 Psychic Powers and variations are given, like telepathy, mind shielding, clairvoyance, pyrokenesis, psychic vampirism, animal psi, astral travel, biocontrol and the like. Theres also a couple psychic fellowships given, though none are particularly large or powerful. The next chapter, though, is quite useful, covering guidelines for running a sorcerer/psychic chronicle. Themes, mood and concepts (like seeker of forbidden secrets of chem student) are given, along with rules and options for hedge magic and other supernaturals (as well as half-supernaturals like ghouls, kinfolk, kinian, etc). This covers both learning it and being affected by it. Theres also an examination of the limits of hedge magic, and rules for making new Paths. All in all, this was a very useful section, of a very useful book. Go check it out if you enjoy Mage: the Ascension or even just want to add a darker, supernatural element to other World of Darkness games.Merits/Flaws specific to Sorcerers. Most of the stuff is quite appropriate too. This is followed by a look at roughly 15 Paths, like shapeshifting, teleportation, alchemy, summoning, weather control, elemental control, divinations, shadow control, alchemy and so forth. Each path includes a number of rituals and even variations on paths (like necromancy, high-tech chemistry and so forth).<br />In the next chapter we are given a look at another alternative: psyhics, along with rules for psychic powers as magic, chi-manipulation or whatever (this option is especially appropriate for Akashics, Dreamspeakers or Ecstatics). Like with hedge magic, some 20 Psychic Powers and variations are given, like telepathy, mind shielding, clairvoyance, pyrokenesis, psychic vampirism, animal psi, astral travel, biocontrol and the like. Theres also a couple psychic fellowships given, though none are particularly large or powerful. The next chapter, though, is quite useful, covering guidelines for running a sorcerer/psychic chronicle. Themes, mood and concepts (like seeker of forbidden secrets of chem student) are given, along with rules and options for hedge magic and other supernaturals (as well as half-supernaturals like ghouls, kinfolk, kinian, etc). This covers both learning it and being affected by it. Theres also an examination of the limits of hedge magic, and rules for making new Paths. All in all, this was a very useful section, of a very useful book. Go check it out if you enjoy Mage: the Ascension or even just want to add a darker, supernatural element to other World of Darkness games.	2004-05-02
US	48854119	R2FQ81DJ83Y6EM	1588463184	687567440	*OP Players Guide to Changing Breeds (Werewolf)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Lions and Tigers and Bears Oh My!	After a long-time in the waiting, this book finally collects together the previous 10 Changing Breeds splat books and expands on them. This book is invaluable to players and STs, though the individual Changing Breed books are still quite useful (since they have way more Gifts, Rites, Merits, Flaws and info). The book starts with an introductory tale on why the Changing Breeds must cooperate, and then goes on to introduce the Changing Breeds. All 11 species get a look, along with some tips on running all-Fera, Garou-Fera or mixed games (and why some Changing Breeds are easier than others). Mention is also made that players should study the animals and that most Fera games are going to be non-western in part because the Garou don't really exist in numbers in Africa, South America and other such areas.<br /> The book then takes a look at general Fera history, from the War of Rage onward. Then it takes a look at the various continents, telling of how each of the Changing Breeds fits in (ie ebola spreading Ratkin in Africa, Mokole in the south-eastern US, the Bubasti's attempts at retaking Egypt, the Nagah's homeland of India and so forth). This is really great, considering how little WW has published on these more obscure areas in their other books. Then the book goes into introducing a brief write up for each of the 11 Fera, all of which contain enough information, Gifts, Rites and Traits to allow you to run members of that particular Changing Breed, either as an NPC or a player's character. The first one revises the Ajaba were-hyenas of Africa and India, finally making them more than &quot;evil Bastet&quot;. They are made a breed unto themselves, the warriors of Africa, complete with their own auspices, Gifts and traits.<br /> Next the book takes a look at the manipulative Ananasi were-spiders and their struggle to save their queen, and a wonderful (and long-needed) revision of the 9 tribes of Bastet were-cats. The &quot;sensuality&quot; of the old book is toned down, making them seem more like predatory cats. Each one is brought up to date, including the Balam (were-jaguar) in the Amazon War and the Simba (were-lions), Swara (were-cheetahs) and Bagheera (were-leopards) in Africa's Ahadi alliance. Also, consideration is given to the RL cat's ranges (ie, lynxes in Spain, lions in India, leopards and cheetahs in the Middle East and pumas in South America) which I found pleasing. Next the Corax (were-ravens) are examined, who also get something of a revision. They now have Tribes and are much more into the role of messangers and spies. From there things move to the Gurahl (were-bear) who seek to heal nature, the cunning Kitsune (were-foxes) of the Far East, the Mokole (were-crocodilians/lizards) who preserve memories of the dinosaurs and the subtle Nagah (were-snakes) who enforce Gaia's laws. A toned down version of the Nuwisha (were-coyote) tricksters is also given, followed by the Ratkin (were-rats) who cull the herds of humanity with disease and death and finally the mysterious Rokea (were-sharks).<br /> Sadly, some stuff was cut out, like the Ratkin's &quot;freak auspices&quot; and the Kitsune's magic, but that sort of stuff can be found in the individual books. The next chapter covers some general new/altered Abilities, Backgrounds and Merits/Flaws, along with combat manuevers, Delirium and Renown. Very brief, but very clear as well. The next chapter does a very brief summary of the Beast Courts of East Asia. Social structure, history, renown and the Laws of the Emerald Mother (their Litany) are covered, along with all of the Breeds; the Hakken (Japanese &quot;Shadow Lords&quot;), Khan (were-tigers), Kumo (Wyrm tainted were-spiders), Nagah (were-snakes), Nezumi (were-rats), Same-Bito (were-sharks), Tengu (were-ravens) and Zhong Long (were-lizards/crocodilians) are given, along with differences between them and their western kin, some new Gifts and other members of the Beast Courts (like the Boli Zouhisze Glass Walkers of HongKong and the Stargazers).<br /> The final chapter, and imho one of the most interesting, covers the Ahadi, a newly formed alliance of shape-shifters in Africa. It gives a brief description of the Ahadi's formation following (and Black Tooth's death) along with some general guidlines on it's laws and how it works. The members are all looked at, including the Silent Striders, Bastet (were-cats), Ajaba (were-hyenas) and Mokole (were-crocodiles), aside with affiliated Ananasi (were-spiders), Ratkin (were-rats), Rokea (were-sharks) and Corax (were-ravens; in this case white-necked South African ravens). An updated look at Africa and it's supernatural events, like the conflicts between the Ahadi and Setites in Egypt, Wyrmed taint in Nigeria and a horror lurking beneath the Kalahari. The book closes out with a couple Ahadi rites. Ultimately, this book was long overdue, and is quite useful in my opinion. Even if you have all the Changing Breed books, this book is still useful because of the reivisions, updates on things and the information on the Fera of Africa and India.nd the Stargazers).<BR> The final chapter, and imho one of the most interesting, covers the Ahadi, a newly formed alliance of shape-shifters in Africa. It gives a brief description of the Ahadi's formation following (and Black Tooth's death) along with some general guidlines on it's laws and how it works. The members are all looked at, including the Silent Striders, Bastet (were-cats), Ajaba (were-hyenas) and Mokole (were-crocodiles), aside with affiliated Ananasi (were-spiders), Ratkin (were-rats), Rokea (were-sharks) and Corax (were-ravens; in this case white-necked South African ravens). An updated look at Africa and it's supernatural events, like the conflicts between the Ahadi and Setites in Egypt, Wyrmed taint in Nigeria and a horror lurking beneath the Kalahari. The book closes out with a couple Ahadi rites. Ultimately, this book was long overdue, and is quite useful in my opinion. Even if you have all the Changing Breed books, this book is still useful because of the reivisions, updates on things and the information on the Fera of Africa and India.	2004-05-02
US	48854119	R39IJV661GEW5Y	1552977234	786347816	The Future is Wild: A Natural History of the Future	Books	5	8	8	N	N	And Life Goes On...	Following After Man and The New Dinosaurs, Dougal Dixon and several biologists take a look at how the course of evolution might go over the next 200 million years if man left the earth. Made to follow a television mini-series, this lavishly illustrated book features commentaries from leading biologists and a wonderful introduction to evolution and continental drift. All the animals featured are smoothly done in CG art, but there are pictures of modern animals that are similar or even related to these hypothetical beasties. Incidentally, each chapter features certain clips that were not featured on the show the first time it aired, so if you saw the tv special you may have missed certain parts of the book.<br />The book opens up in the next Ice Age 5 million years into the future (a very real possibility btw), and actually matches up closely with Dixon's book \\"After Man\\". In this period, northern Europe is covered in ice sheets, where giant rodents and semi-aquatic birds are hunted by gigantic wolverines. The Mediterranean has dried up into a salt desert inhabited by lizards and wild boars (which was not featured on the show). In the Americas, the Midwest has become a sweeping desert/plain where gigantic predatory bats swoop across the sky and quails tunnel underground. And the Amazon has become an endless savannah where giant ground dwelling birds of prey hunt down the last few primates.<br />Jump to 100 million years from now, when the Ice Age ends. A great sea covers much of the earth, and it is warmer and more humid. Giant jellfish and sea slugs lurk in the warm shallow oceans, while India/South Asia has become a large swamp where elephant sized turles, land octopi and giant angler fish live. Antarctica is a tropical forest, inhabited by colorful birds and monsterous insects (this part wasn't in the tv series originally). Meanwhile Australia crashed into Asia forming huge mountains, in which giant spiders harvest rodents while dodging high altitude birds (which BTW feature anatomical adaptations recently discovered in prehistoric birds; victory for Dixon's views!)<br />Then 200 million years in the future a mass extinction eliminated most of the life on earth and the continents have reformed into Pangea II. A colossal inland desert occupies much of Pangea II and in it highly specialized termites co-exist with a variety of worms (not in the original airing). In the oceans the ultimate predators, sharks, have become even more adapted for hunting and prey upon colossal squid while flying fish have adapted to take the niche of birds. A rainshow desert exists beyond coastal mountains, and in it can be found hopping snails and scavenging insects. And in the humid northern forests, fish-birds and predatory fungi can be found, along with terrestrial squid which may one day evolve into intelligent life.<br />All in all, I found this to be a wonderful book. If you enjoyed Dougal Dixon's previous works or saw the television special, you know what to expect. If you have an interest in natural history, evolution or even just sci-fi, then I really suggest checking this book out (along with Dixon's other books like \\"The New Dinosuars\\" and \\"After Man\\"). Its really a great read and it gets your thoughts going too. So check it out.TW feature anatomical adaptations recently discovered in prehistoric birds; victory for Dixon's views!)<br />Then 200 million years in the future a mass extinction eliminated most of the life on earth and the continents have reformed into Pangea II. A colossal inland desert occupies much of Pangea II and in it highly specialized termites co-exist with a variety of worms (not in the original airing). In the oceans the ultimate predators, sharks, have become even more adapted for hunting and prey upon colossal squid while flying fish have adapted to take the niche of birds. A rainshow desert exists beyond coastal mountains, and in it can be found hopping snails and scavenging insects. And in the humid northern forests, fish-birds and predatory fungi can be found, along with terrestrial squid which may one day evolve into intelligent life.<br />All in all, I found this to be a wonderful book. If you enjoyed Dougal Dixon's previous works or saw the television special, you know what to expect. If you have an interest in natural history, evolution or even just sci-fi, then I really suggest checking this book out (along with Dixon's other books like \\"The New Dinosuars\\" and \\"After Man\\"). Its really a great read and it gets your thoughts going too. So check it out.	2004-03-08
US	48854119	RSUELI1UMV1F	1588462463	756275200	Vampire Gehenna (2004)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The End...	This book is the final book for Vampire: the Masquerade and covers Gehenna, the end of the world for all intents and purposes. A novel new concept, this book provides multiple scenarios which you can tailor to your needs based on your own needs and likes. No canon, no specifics. Just suggestions, and its a VERY cool concept.<br />The book starts out with a great piece of fiction using the characters from Cairo by Night, and then gives some general info about Gehenna with stuff like the Red Star, the shattering of the Black Hand and how the sects react. The whereabouts of the Antedilluvians are given (though some are rather disappointing, others are what we've expected all along), though these can be changed to suit your needs. Then the book gives a whole chapter on general setting info for Gehenna. The prophecies and Antedilluvians are examined, including others beyond the 13 &quot;known&quot; ones (though these may or may not just be rumors). Also info on the Inconnu, Jyhad and last daughters of eve, some news clippings from around the world showing how the mortal world is affected and the system for the withering, a new weakness afflicting Cainites in the Final Nights. Info on other supernaturals is largely avoided, but it is mentioned that depending on how it ends it could be a huge spectacle to a quiet bang unnoticed by the mortal world.<br />The next chapters detail four possible scenarios (which you can adapt for your own use), which I have no intentions of spoiling for you. The first, Wormwood, seems to be the most popular and has God himself taking out his wrath on all vampires. Fair is Foul, probably my favorite, involves Lilith taking her revenge on Caine and his childer amidst the struggles of the Antedilluvians. The next scenario, Nightshade, involves the awakening of the Antedilluvians and may be the &quot;canon&quot; ending to the metaplot from what I've heard on forums. And the final scenario, the Crucible of God, shows what happens when vampires openly take control of human society. And it has a REALLY funny ending if you like ironic justice....<br />The book closes out with some more stuff, including a Storyteller's guide to running games set in the end times, Stats and profiles for some of the characters presented (which were nice, but some are already presented elsewhere and I guess the space could have been better used in other ways), and finally a last look at Caine himself. Overall, this is a very useful and innovative book. Definately worth running any one of the scenarios presented. The book largely accepts the Caine mythos and Abrahamic religious beliefs (sorry for all those Setites, Laibon, Bahari, Einherjar, etc) BUT makes a big point on how you can change it if you choose. In fact, one of the scenarios includes the Lilith Mythos as I mentioned, which I think is cool. Still, the game is based of the Biblical kinslayer, and it makes sense that the Jewish/Christian/Muslim view of God holds in the game. Overall, just get the book. You and your players will enjoy it.ly take control of human society. And it has a REALLY funny ending if you like ironic justice....<br />The book closes out with some more stuff, including a Storyteller's guide to running games set in the end times, Stats and profiles for some of the characters presented (which were nice, but some are already presented elsewhere and I guess the space could have been better used in other ways), and finally a last look at Caine himself. Overall, this is a very useful and innovative book. Definately worth running any one of the scenarios presented. The book largely accepts the Caine mythos and Abrahamic religious beliefs (sorry for all those Setites, Laibon, Bahari, Einherjar, etc) BUT makes a big point on how you can change it if you choose. In fact, one of the scenarios includes the Lilith Mythos as I mentioned, which I think is cool. Still, the game is based of the Biblical kinslayer, and it makes sense that the Jewish/Christian/Muslim view of God holds in the game. Overall, just get the book. You and your players will enjoy it.	2004-03-02
US	48854119	R17UAMB06BQYO7	1565042999	151619951	Jerusalem by Night (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Decent Guide to the Holy Land	This slightly outdated setting book for Vampire: the Dark Ages covers Jerusalem before the Fourth Crusade. If your following the Dark Ages metaplot (as presented in Dark Ages: Vampire and the Bitter Crusade) then this book might need a bit of an overhaul. If your just using it as a general guide book, then its not as big a deal. Anyway, after an average peice of fiction the book gives the standard introduction. A short list of recommended reading and some common Arabic terms are given as well, but nothing you couldn't find elsewhere.<br />The bookest strongest point is the first chapter, a very brief history of Jerusalem from the Hebrews onward to the Dark Ages timeframe from a vampire point of view. Brief mention is made of periods of Roman, Muslim and Latin rule, and its chock full of interesting little quotes and sidenotes. However, I really feel like such an ancient city deserved to have a bit more... mystery, exoticism or even more supernatural elements. The next chapter focuses on society and religion, going into overviews of Judaism, Islam and Christianity (including mention of the non-Catholics in the Middle East such as the Nestorians, Greeks and Armenians). The most interesting part was some information on how Cainites follow Islam and Judaism, particularly about getting around the prohibitions about consuming blood.<br />The next chapter, Geography, was another strong point for the book and detailed the many sites infused by True Faith in the city. It then goes on to give profiles and stats for a variety of Cainites in Jerusalem, sorted by clan. It was interesting to see how the clans are almost all split between Muslims and Christians and some characters (like a dog-like Gangrel methusaleh, an out of place Viking, al-Hakim and the Bashirite Ravnos) were quite interesting. Most however struck me as so-so but thats just me. The book then closes out with some useful advice for running chronicles set in Medieval Jerusalem.<br />With the writing of the Bitter Crusade, games set in Jerusalem are going to be a little different. Still this is a decent book for running games in Jerusalem before the fourth Crusade. My only comments are that it doesn't cover enough culture, history or religion. Other supplements (like Veil of Night and Libellus Sanguinus III) cover the region even better, or better yet you could even go to your library and do research on the Middle East, Jerusalem and the Crusades and come up with more stuff. But if you come across this book its still worth taking a look.Crusade, games set in Jerusalem are going to be a little different. Still this is a decent book for running games in Jerusalem before the fourth Crusade. My only comments are that it doesn't cover enough culture, history or religion. Other supplements (like Veil of Night and Libellus Sanguinus III) cover the region even better, or better yet you could even go to your library and do research on the Middle East, Jerusalem and the Crusades and come up with more stuff. But if you come across this book its still worth taking a look.	2004-03-02
US	48854119	R3HS0W22C9DJ1F	0919645178	479542615	Iroquois Book of Rites and Hale on the Iroquois	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sacred Ways of the Six Nations	This anthropological document, taken in part from the sacred texts of the Six Nations, gives wonderful insights into the religious, social, cultural and political life of the Six Nations of the Iroquois League. Written by a surprisingly open-minded antrhopologist in the late 1800s, it offers a snapshot to the ways of the Iroquois at the time. The book gives a brief overview of the Huron and the Iroquois (the Seneca, Mohawk, Onondoga, Oneida, Cayuga and Tuscarora) and the history, laws and social structure of the Iroquois League. There is also some information about the Ancient Rites of the Condoling Council; the religious text of the Iroquois. The first part of the book ends with some notes on the Iroquois languages.<br />The second, and in my opinion most interesting, part of the book covers the Ancient Rites of the Condoling Council. A direct translation of the ceremonies described in the text are given, with parallel text in the Iroquois languages, as well as commentary and footnotes concerning the text. This is an extremely valuable insight into the beliefs of the Iroquois Nations, coming from the Six Nations themselves, and as far as I know is unique in this respect. The book then closes out with a wealth of appendices, including the names of the Nations, place names derived from the Iroquois (like Ohio and Ontario), the time period of the Six Nations, Iroquois villages, Hiawatha myths, the peoples of pre-Columbian North America and a glossary of Iroquois terminology.<br />Overall, this is a superb book, especially considering the era during which it was written, and is a valuable book for understanding the religions and cultures not only of the Iroquois Nations, but of the Northeastern Indians in general. Anyone interested in history, religion or American Indian culture should definately get a copy of this book.	2004-02-16
US	48854119	R1L1HBSULMXDQB	1404375279	841932496	The Iroquois Book of Rites	Books	4	47	47	N	N	Sacred Ways of the Six Nations	This anthropological document, taken in part from the sacred texts of the Six Nations, gives wonderful insights into the religious, social, cultural and political life of the Six Nations of the Iroquois League. Written by a surprisingly open-minded antrhopologist in the late 1800s, it offers a snapshot to the ways of the Iroquois at the time. The book gives a brief overview of the Huron and the Iroquois (the Seneca, Mohawk, Onondoga, Oneida, Cayuga and Tuscarora) and the history, laws and social structure of the Iroquois League. There is also some information about the Ancient Rites of the Condoling Council; the religious text of the Iroquois. The first part of the book ends with some notes on the Iroquois languages.<br />The second, and in my opinion most interesting, part of the book covers the Ancient Rites of the Condoling Council. A direct translation of the ceremonies described in the text are given, with parallel text in the Iroquois languages, as well as commentary and footnotes concerning the text. This is an extremely valuable insight into the beliefs of the Iroquois Nations, coming from the Six Nations themselves, and as far as I know is unique in this respect. The book then closes out with a wealth of appendices, including the names of the Nations, place names derived from the Iroquois (like Ohio and Ontario), the time period of the Six Nations, Iroquois villages, Hiawatha myths, the peoples of pre-Columbian North America and a glossary of Iroquois terminology.<br />Overall, this is a superb book, especially considering the era during which it was written, and is a valuable book for understanding the religions and cultures not only of the Iroquois Nations, but of the Northeastern Indians in general. Anyone interested in history, religion or American Indian culture should definately get a copy of this book.	2004-02-16
US	48854119	R2DX2I3TGD8DA1	0806122382	730050076	Oklahoma Seminoles: Medicines, Magic, and Religion (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sacred Ways of Seminole	What James Mooney's &quot;History, Myths and Sacred Formulas of the Cherokee&quot; did for the Cherokee, this book does for the Oklahoma Seminole. Another excellent book in University of Oklahoma's &quot;Civilization of the American Indian&quot; series, this book provides a wonderful ethnography for the Oklahoma Seminoles, covering medicine, religion, ceremonies and beliefs. Howard worked extensively with Willie Lena, a Seminole traditionalist, and his work shows a great respect for the Seminole people. Furthermore, Howard also makes it clear in his preface that this book is concerned with the Oklahoma Seminole specifically, not those in Florida (or Texas, Mexico or anywhere else). Those looking for specifics on the Florida Seminoles or the Nation as a whole must look elsewhere. Despite many similarities, there are differences in culture and (interestingly enough) because of the Trail of Tears many more traditional beliefs were preserved in Oklahoma. Furthermore, he also points out the many differences of religious persausion within the Nation, ranging from Christians (mainly Baptists and Presbyterians) who are 100% assimilated into white society to ultra-conservative traditionalists. The book then goes on to a wonderful foreword by Willie Lena which is well worth reading.<br />The book itself starts with a brief history of the Seminole Nation, from their origins in Florida to the Seminole Wars, the Trail of Tears, life in Oklahoma and ultimately modern times. Understanding the past is essential to understanding the Seminole Nation. The book then moves on to Seminole herbal medicine. In a brief introduction, Seminole beliefs of disease, medicine and tools used are examined, and occaisonal comparisons are made to other Southeastern Nations or with Euro-American views. It then gives roughly 60 or 70 herbs, with their names in English and Muskogee, scientific names, medical properties and notes on their uses amongst other Nations. A few medical compounds and formulas are given as well, such as cures for hot weather, whooping cough and high blood pressure. This chapter is followed by a brief section on non-herbal remedies, such as animal parts, minerals, bleeding, scratching, shooting with a minature bow and arrow and so forth. This is quite interesting reading, though I don't recommend people try these remedies at home unless they know what they are doing. After all, Seminole doctors and healers need to train for a long time before practicing.<br />From there, beliefs of magic and witchcraft are mentioned. These include practices such as love medicine, weather control, sapiyas (magical stones used for love and hunting), horned water snake medicine and magic dolls. There are also many anecdotes about witches, malignant people who eat hearts and fly around in the shape of an owl at night. In the next chapter, a general overview of ceremonialism in the traditional Seminole world view is given, including symbolism, practices and paraphernalia. The book then focuses much attention on specific ceremonies, such as the Green Corn Ceremony and the numerous night time dances. These are especially important to traditional Seminole beliefs, being the main religious focus. These are followed by mention of sports and games, mainly stickball. This may seem odd, until one considers that stickball played both a social and religious or cultural role not only to the Seminoles, but also to the Cherokee, Choctaw, Creek, Chickasaw and other Nations of the Southeast. Indeed, the game seems to go back to the Mound Builders, and has parallels amongst the Aztecs and Mayan Indians of Mesoamerica. The book then gives some general aspects of Seminole life, including birth, childhood, hunting, folktales, warfare, pottery, flute playing, sign language, picture writings, folk lore and so forth, and a short chapter on mortuary practices.<br />Closing out the book is an thought provoking epilogue in which Howard mentions changes he saw in Seminole life, as more and more youth adopted Pan-Indianism and saw themselves less as Seminole and more as North American Indians. He mentions how tipis, powwows and Plains-style dress and dance has become more common, and contrasts these to uniquely Seminole things like Green Corn Ceremonies, Stomp Dances and stickball. These same comments hold true for the Cherokee, Creek, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Shawnee, Yuchi and other Southeastern Nations too. Ultimately, this is a wonderful book, and well worth checking out. As I said, the focus is on Oklahoma Seminoles rather than the Nation as a whole but the book is still an excellent ethnography. Indeed, the fact that it was written with the help of Willie Lena and shows great respect towards the Seminole makes it stand out above other studies of Native American culture. I strongly recommend that an interested reader purchase this book, and others in the series.nd more youth adopted Pan-Indianism and saw themselves less as Seminole and more as North American Indians. He mentions how tipis, powwows and Plains-style dress and dance has become more common, and contrasts these to uniquely Seminole things like Green Corn Ceremonies, Stomp Dances and stickball. These same comments hold true for the Cherokee, Creek, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Shawnee, Yuchi and other Southeastern Nations too. Ultimately, this is a wonderful book, and well worth checking out. As I said, the focus is on Oklahoma Seminoles rather than the Nation as a whole but the book is still an excellent ethnography. Indeed, the fact that it was written with the help of Willie Lena and shows great respect towards the Seminole makes it stand out above other studies of Native American culture. I strongly recommend that an interested reader purchase this book, and others in the series.	2004-01-19
US	48854119	R1UK0XY4NLVQDW	1588463141	271645854	*OP Tribebook Silent Striders Rev (Werewolf the Apocalypse)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very Nice Look at the Garou of Khem	This book covers the wandering Silent Strider Tribe, exiled from Egypt by Sutekh's curse. The book jumps right away into the Tribe's history, starting along the Nile and the steppes of Central Asia. Alot of information is given on Egypt, the battle between Sutekh and Osiris, and the Tribe's eventual curse and exile. Mention of important historical events is made, such as the rise of Christianity and Islam, the Crusades, the Ottoman Empire, the Gulf War, construction of the Aswan Dam and so forth, as the Tribe spread through the Middle East, Africa and India seeking a new home. Theres also a lot of metaplot stuff (Beast Courts of Asia, Black Tooth, the Ahadi, the Red Star and Ravanna's awakening) and even sensitive political issues affecting the Striders (Islamic fundamentalism, the Intifada, 11-9, genocide against the Rroma, etc).<br />Chapter two covers the beliefs and practices of the Striders, including views on the Litany, Auspice roles, stereotypes of other Tribes and Fera (their relationships with the Bastet, Mokole, Mummies and Setites are all quite interesting) and so forth. Stuff on breeds and kinfolk is discussed, such as their human kin (ranging from Bedouin and Tuareg nomads, Ethiopians, Rroma, Jews, nomadic Native American Nations and so forth) and wolf kin (the wolves of Ethiopia, Central Asia and even the plains of North America). In addition, theres mention of all the Camps, including a new look at the Daggers of the Night (vampire killers) and the Eaters of the Dead. Then theres a look at Strider lands, not just Egypt and the Middle East, but also the Garou caste system in India, the Ahadi of Africa and much more. Plus a nice sidebar on vampire hunting.<br />The following chapter covers all manner of crunchy stuff, like fleshing out Backgrounds, appearence and Egyptian names, new Gifts, Rites, Fetishes and Talens, Totems like Crocodile and Scarab, Camp specific goodies and even a new Merit and a new Flaw. Some of this stuff comes from the old Tribe Book, but lots of new stuff is presented as well. The book then closes out with the five pre-generator characters (stuff like \\"the vampire hunter\\" and \\"child of Anubis\\"), plus some characters of note such as Wepauwet, Vik Stryker (who fell in battle with a Setite cult but went out in a blaze of glory), Black Shuck (very cool character), Walks-with-Might and the signature character Memphi Faster-Than-Death. Nothing too new or surprising here, but still cool. Ultimately I found this an enjoyable book. The IC stuff I've found to be a little more useful than the crunchy bits thus far, but it still is a wonderful resource for Werewolf games. Its especially nice if you're using Rage Across Egypt, playing the Ahadi, running a Mummy crossover or have an interest in the Middle East, Egypt, Africa and/or India in the World of Darkness setting. Check it out.Book, but lots of new stuff is presented as well. The book then closes out with the five pre-generator characters (stuff like \\"the vampire hunter\\" and \\"child of Anubis\\"), plus some characters of note such as Wepauwet, Vik Stryker (who fell in battle with a Setite cult but went out in a blaze of glory), Black Shuck (very cool character), Walks-with-Might and the signature character Memphi Faster-Than-Death. Nothing too new or surprising here, but still cool. Ultimately I found this an enjoyable book. The IC stuff I've found to be a little more useful than the crunchy bits thus far, but it still is a wonderful resource for Werewolf games. Its especially nice if you're using Rage Across Egypt, playing the Ahadi, running a Mummy crossover or have an interest in the Middle East, Egypt, Africa and/or India in the World of Darkness setting. Check it out.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R2H8SDWYJ7BTTO	0713723149	624628440	Man After Man: An Anthropology of the Future	Books	3	48	48	N	N	Three And A Half Would Be Better	I must admit that I'm somehwat surprised by the controversy surrounding this book. It certainly isn't as good as his other works (the New Dinosaurs, After Man and the Future is Wild) but it certainly isn't a terrible book either. It seems that most people dislike it either because it leans so heavily towards sci-fi/paranormal (mainly via psychic powers and genetic engineering) or because it degrades humankind. Honestly, if you have no problem with sci-fi influences or with a pessimistic attitude towards human nature then you probably won't be too offended by this book.<br />Like all of Dougal Dixon's books, it starts out with a brief history of homo sapiens and our ancestors. The short accounts of us are given in a first person fashion, departing from his other works but I didn't find them to be hard to follow. He then gives an evolutionary chart for the various species in his book. The book then starts two hundred years in the future, as a rift develops between the upper and lower class humans, and the genetically modified servants. Another century later, their descendants are examined. Then it jumps ahead to 500 years from present, when genetically modified humans are created to repopulate the earth (from which most large animals have been exterminated) and upper class humans are kept alive through machines, while lower class humans resort to communal agriculturalism. Another five hundred years and we come upon an earth on the brink of disaster, as both the high-tech mechanical societies and agricultural communities fail while the genetically modified humans in the wilderness survive.<br />The book keeps going showing the various twists and turns taken by the genetically modified humans, as they evolve into strange new organisms. Psychic powers, symbiosis, parasitism, aquatic lifestyles and social colonies all evolve, and vaguely humanoid creatures colonize tundras, plains, jungles and other environments. Ultimately 3 million years into the future these creatures come closer to animals like mammoths, slothes, jerboas and sabretooth tigers than humans. The book closes out at 5 million years, when the descendants of upper class humans sent to space colonies return to earth, genetically modifying and exploiting their \\"cousins\\", and ultimately laying waste to the earth. But there is still survival, and life goes on in strange new forms.<br />Ultimately I found this book to be an interesting concept, though not on par with his other works. Still it was a nice experiment in sci-fi for Dixon, and if you're a fan of the genere then you will probably appreciate this book. If reading this review you decide that you wouldn't like it or would find it offensive, then don't bother tracking it down. Trust me, its out of print and usually expensive to buy. Thats about the best I can say for this book. I appreciated it, but others out there might not feel the same way, so just read my review and consider whether or not it sounds like you would like it.come closer to animals like mammoths, slothes, jerboas and sabretooth tigers than humans. The book closes out at 5 million years, when the descendants of upper class humans sent to space colonies return to earth, genetically modifying and exploiting their \\"cousins\\", and ultimately laying waste to the earth. But there is still survival, and life goes on in strange new forms.<br />Ultimately I found this book to be an interesting concept, though not on par with his other works. Still it was a nice experiment in sci-fi for Dixon, and if you're a fan of the genere then you will probably appreciate this book. If reading this review you decide that you wouldn't like it or would find it offensive, then don't bother tracking it down. Trust me, its out of print and usually expensive to buy. Thats about the best I can say for this book. I appreciated it, but others out there might not feel the same way, so just read my review and consider whether or not it sounds like you would like it.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	RELLHHR0Z3NCX	0872860752	857333377	The Nine Songs: A Study of Shamanism in Ancient China	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Forgotten Shaman of Ancient China	Arthur Waley does a superb job covering the role of the wu, or shaman, in ancient China. Similar to the traditional shaman of Siberia, Central Asia and the Arctic, the wu enters into a trance state in performing ceremonies. However, unlike his northern counterparts, the Chinese shaman enters into a fleeting love relationship with the God (or Goddess). Although references to shaman abound in China, actual descriptions of the practice and beliefs of the wu are rare. Waley takes what is known about them, comparing it occaisonally to other Asian beliefs, and makes a wonderful introduction to Chinese shamanism.<br />He then goes on to translate and analyze all nine of the songs in Ch'u Yuan's Nine Songs. Each of these songs is dedicated to a particular deity or spirit, such as T'ai I, Hsiang-chuan, Ta Ssu-ming, Ho-po and the Shan-kuei. In each song, he interperts the meaning, as well as giving a general description of the deity or spirit in question, and even analyzing the meaning of the name. This book is fairly short (there is little material on shaman practices in ancient China, and each of the Nine Songs is fairly short), but it is quite a good book to read nonethelesss, particularly with so little about Chinese shamanism in English. Indeed, this book may be the only English translation of the Nine Songs, as far as I am aware.<br />Waley closes out the book with three appendices, one on the expansion of the kingdom of Ch'u (where the book is believed to have originated), one on commentaries on the book and another on Japanese scholar Aoki Masaru's interpetation of the book. Ultimately, this book is essential reading for anyone interested in East Asian shamanism, but it can be appreciated by anyone with an interest in shamanism or ancient culture. The only comment I would make is that I am not entirely sure about the transliteration of Chinese words. The systems used may be slightly off or outdated, though I'm sure many of those interested in this book probably already have at least some understanding of Chinese linguistics so that shouldn't be too much of an issue. If not, then don't let that deter you. It is a wonderful book to read.y have at least some understanding of Chinese linguistics so that shouldn't be too much of an issue. If not, then don't let that deter you. It is a wonderful book to read.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R13C1KG9EFNEV1	0521669936	601068775	The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Islamic World (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Wonderful Intro to Islamic Culture and Belief	In an age of prejudice towards the Islamic faith, it is nice to see a more accurate and even-handed book covering the Muslim world. This book gives an excellent introduction, going into depth on how the west has viwed the Islamic world, and vice-versca. Then it goes onto the first chapter, where it discusses pre-Islamic Arabia, the life of Mohammad, the Rashidun, the schism between Sunni and Shi'a, and the Umayyad and Abbasid dynasties. This chapter is especially interesting in laying the framework for the foundations of the Islamic world, as well as the spread of Islam and Arabic culture, and later conversion of non-Arab peoples (most notably the Persians). In the next chapter, the Islamic world from 1000 to 1500 AD is covered, when Islam had spread across the Middle East, west to Spain and west Africa and east towards India and Central Asia. This chapter covers many interesting subjects, such as the Fatimid dynasty, the Crusades, the Mongols, Byzantium and the Turks, and Islamic states in East Asia and Africa. The third chapter covers the period from 1500 to 1800 AD, a period of both great achievements and decline. The Persian, Mongol and Turkish powers are mentioned (such as the Safavids, Mughals and Ottomans), alongside mention of Islam in Africa and elsehwere in Asia (mainly China and Southeast Asia).<br />The subsequent chapter focuses on the 1800s to the present day, and a growing western presence in Islamic lands. This chapter shows how European powers carved up Islamic lands (the French in Syria and north/west Africa, the Brits in Iraq, Palestine, Egypt and South Asia, the Italians in north Africa, Russians in central Asia, etc), and how Islamicist reformer movements arose because of this. Mention is also made of non-colonized states (such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran), and of the emergence of independant Islamic states. The second section of the book goes more into cultural studies, delving into economies, trade routes and social structure within the Islamic world. Mention is made of both historical traderoutes and interconnectedness in the Islamic world, stretching from Morocco to Indonesia, and of modern economies in predominantly Muslim states. In chapter seven, the book explores learning in Islamic societies. Mention is made of the high degree of literacy in Islam, and the many great scientific achievements in medicine, astronomy and mathematics. Mention is also made of the impact of the west on Islamic learning. This is followed by a chapter on the arts in the Islamic world, ranging from calligraphy to architecture to classical Arabic music (including mention of legendary Egyptian singer Umm Kalthum) and everything in between. This is an excellent chapter for understanding and appreciating Islamic culture.<br />The book closes out with a conclusion on Islam in the modern world, relationships with the west, the spread of Islam to every country in the world and crises in Bosnia, Palestine, Kashmir and Chechnya. It also has a wonderful timeline covering various Islamic dynasties around the world and a short glossary of Arabic terms. Its quite a nice book for getting to understand some of the basic history and culture of the Islamic world and some of the current issues facing the Islamic world. For the purposes of this book, by the way, the Islamic world counts as any country where the majority of the population is Muslim, not just self-declared Islamic states (which would be limited to Iran, Pakistan, Mauritania and such). Hence it covers almost all of the Middle East, north Africa, Central Asia and much of South Asia, as well as Bosnia, Albania, parts of west and east Africa, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and so forth. In fact, the book makes a point of examining Islam in South Asia, Africa, China and elsewhere beyond the Middle East. It also includes many illustrations and maps of the Islamic world. Hence its an invaluable aid for anyone, Muslim or non-Muslim, in understanding the wonderful history and culture of Islam. However, it doesn't go into depth on beliefs or specific cultures (such as Arabs, Persians, Malay, Mongols and whatnot), so you would need to look elsewhere for that.re of Islam. However, it doesn't go into depth on beliefs or specific cultures (such as Arabs, Persians, Malay, Mongols and whatnot), so you would need to look elsewhere for that.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R25UYA2G8X24D0	0044405006	489069220	The Nine Songs: Study of Shamanism in Ancient China	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Wu of Ancient China	Arthur Waley does a superb job covering the role of the wu, or shaman, in ancient China. Similar to the traditional shaman of Siberia, Central Asia and the Arctic, the wu enters into a trance state in performing ceremonies. However, unlike his northern counterparts, the Chinese shaman enters into a fleeting love relationship with the God (or Goddess). Although references to shaman abound in China, actual descriptions of the practice and beliefs of the wu are rare. Waley takes what is known about them, comparing it occaisonally to other Asian beliefs, and makes a wonderful introduction to Chinese shamanism.<br />He then goes on to translate and analyze all nine of the songs in Ch'u Yuan's Nine Songs. Each of these songs is dedicated to a particular deity or spirit, such as T'ai I, Hsiang-chuan, Ta Ssu-ming, Ho-po and the Shan-kuei. In each song, he interperts the meaning, as well as giving a general description of the deity or spirit in question, and even analyzing the meaning of the name. This book is fairly short (there is little material on shaman practices in ancient China, and each of the Nine Songs is fairly short), but it is quite a good book to read nonethelesss, particularly with so little about Chinese shamanism in English. Indeed, this book may be the only English translation of the Nine Songs, as far as I am aware.<br />Waley closes out the book with three appendices, one on the expansion of the kingdom of Ch'u (where the book is believed to have originated), one on commentaries on the book and another on Japanese scholar Aoki Masaru's interpetation of the book. Ultimately, this book is essential reading for anyone interested in East Asian shamanism, but it can be appreciated by anyone with an interest in shamanism or ancient culture. The only comment I would make is that I am not entirely sure about the transliteration of Chinese words. The systems used may be slightly off or outdated, though I'm sure many of those interested in this book probably already have at least some understanding of Chinese linguistics so that shouldn't be too much of an issue. If not, then don't let that deter you though. It is a wonderful book to read, whether for an understanding of shamanism or for appreciating as poetry.have at least some understanding of Chinese linguistics so that shouldn't be too much of an issue. If not, then don't let that deter you though. It is a wonderful book to read, whether for an understanding of shamanism or for appreciating as poetry.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R1IXVIIP37P17C	0685220729	113213574	John George Hohman's Pow Wows or Long Lost Friend	Books	5	10	11	N	N	American Folk Magic	Despite the title, this book has nothing to do with Native American beliefs and traditions. Its actually the folk beliefs of the Pensylvannia Dutch folk doctors, hex-crafters, magicians and healers. A unique blend of Christianity and German folklore, this book was a major influence on American folk magic (from Hoodoo to Appalachian study-witches) for many years, and was mentioned several times in the fictional works of Manly Wade Wellman. Its still practiced in some remote areas. It includes a number of charms, hexes and spells. Amongst these are numerous cures for bleeding, warts, colic, epilepsy, headaches, scurvy, tapeworms and many livestock ailments, as well as charms for a safe journey, catching lots of fish, legal success, protection against bullets, driving away vermin, bringing back lost animals and so forth. More esoteric/mystical things include spells against witchcraft, evil spirits and the like, as well as binding a theif or releasing someone from bindings. Theres also certain lore such as advice for pregnant women, unlucky days and hunting talismans.<br />This is quite an encyclopedic work, covering just about every element of rural folk magic in the United States. This is quite a wonderful book for anyone interested in magic, mysticism and the occult (especially in a historical, folk or Christian context), and a uniquely American book. Definately worth checking out.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R2G7IYLLW3HOLY	0787304158	116280017	Pow-Wows: Long Lost Friend, a Collection of Mysteries and Invaluable Arts and Remedies	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Uniquely American Magical Beliefs	Despite the title, this book has nothing to do with Native American beliefs and traditions. Its actually the folk beliefs of the Pensylvannia Dutch folk doctors, hex-crafters, magicians and healers. A unique blend of Christianity and German folklore, this book was a major influence on American folk magic (from Hoodoo to Appalachian study-witches) for many years, and was mentioned several times in the fictional works of Manly Wade Wellman. Its still practiced in some remote areas. It includes a number of charms, hexes and spells. Amongst these are numerous cures for bleeding, warts, colic, epilepsy, headaches, scurvy, tapeworms and many livestock ailments, as well as charms for a safe journey, catching lots of fish, legal success, protection against bullets, driving away vermin, bringing back lost animals and so forth. More esoteric/mystical things include spells against witchcraft, evil spirits and the like, as well as binding a theif or releasing someone from bindings. Theres also certain lore such as advice for pregnant women, unlucky days and hunting talismans.<br />This is quite an encyclopedic work, covering just about every element of rural folk magic in the United States. This is quite a wonderful book for anyone interested in magic, mysticism and the occult (especially in a historical, folk or Christian context), and a uniquely American book. Definately worth checking out.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R18UNNZ79DIV2O	156504388X	67066636	*OP Croatan Song (Werewolf: The Apocalypse)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pure Lands Before 1492	As both a player and ST for Werewolf: the Apoclaypse, I've always had a bias towards the Pure Ones, so I was quite pleased when this book was released. In addition to finally providing information on the Croatan, it also gives an overview of the Pure Lands in general before the coming of the European Garou. The book opens with fiction about the Three Brothers (Uktena, Croatan and Wendigo), as well as an introduction telling of the theme, mood and setting.<br />The book then goes on to chronicle the history of the Pure Lands, telling of the Pure One's arrival, the Mound Builder civilization, the arrival of the Europeans and ultimately the fall of the Croatan. It also gives some small histories from both the Uktena and the Wendigo, telling of bane-binding, contacts with the Europeans and so forth. Chapter Two covers the lands and peoples, listing several examples of Croatan Caerns in the Mississippi and along the east coast, Uktena Caerns in the Southwest, California, Southeast and California, and Wendigo Caerns in the far north, Great Plains, Northwest Coast and Northeast. It briefly mentions the Corax, Gurahl, Nuwisha and Bastet, alongside spirits and some differences in settings (like no written languages or metal tools), plus info for some pre-Columbian chronicles. The neatest part though was an examination of kinfolk for all three Tribes. The Croatan claim the Lene Lenape, Iroquois, Mound Builders and so forth, while the Uktena claim the Comanche, Kiowa, Anasazi, Pueblos, Osage, Miwok, Apache, Navajo, Seminole and other southern Nations and the Wendigo claim the Inuit, Algonquians, Iroquois, Tsimshian, Lakota, Cheyenne, Pawnee, Haida, Arapaho and other northern Nations. Theres nothing here you couldn't get out of a good ethnography or history book, but its nice to have if you know next to nothing on Native cultures but still want to add depth to a character.<br />After this, there is an extensive look at storytelling, giving some basic info for major time frames such as the Great Migration, First Contact, the Wild West and even modern times, plus a look at past lives, multi-generational games and so forth. Information on basic stuff like other Tribes (mainly Get, Stargazers, Fianna and Talons), the Pure Lands gauntlet, systems for fighting and major spiritual themes are all adressed. This stuff I feel is good for almost any historical game. Theres also a look at monsters like cannibal heads, witches, horned water snakes and the little people. The next chapter covers the rules changes, like Willpower for all the Tribes, new and changed Abilities and Backgrounds, Merits and Flaws, Fetishes and Talens, and Gift changes. In addition to some new Rites and new Gifts for the Wendigo and Uktena, theres also a complete list of Gifts for the Croatan. There are also guidelines at the back for creating and running Kinfolk characters, which is really nice to see for a change of pace.<br />Ultimately this is a wonderful book. I've seen some comments that this book is too Native-centric, but as it is focused on pre-Columbian settings I feel that is quite appropriate. I was also pleased to see the use of Nation in lieu of tribe to refer to Native groups, and the occaisonal use of proper names (Dine instead of Navajo, for example, or Hasinai instead of Caddo). It really struck me that the authors were trying to be respectful of RL Native cultures. My only real gripe was that it stops at the Mexican border, leaving out the Aztecs, Maya and other Native Americans in Mexico and further south. Still, if you want a book that will help with a historical setting (like the Wild West, or even pre-Columbian times), or want more information on the Croatan, this is the book to get.such as the Great Migration, First Contact, the Wild West and even modern times, plus a look at past lives, multi-generational games and so forth. Information on basic stuff like other Tribes (mainly Get, Stargazers, Fianna and Talons), the Pure Lands gauntlet, systems for fighting and major spiritual themes are all adressed. This stuff I feel is good for almost any historical game. Theres also a look at monsters like cannibal heads, witches, horned water snakes and the little people. The next chapter covers the rules changes, like Willpower for all the Tribes, new and changed Abilities and Backgrounds, Merits and Flaws, Fetishes and Talens, and Gift changes. In addition to some new Rites and new Gifts for the Wendigo and Uktena, theres also a complete list of Gifts for the Croatan. There are also guidelines at the back for creating and running Kinfolk characters, which is really nice to see for a change of pace.<br />Ultimately this is a wonderful book. I've seen some comments that this book is too Native-centric, but as it is focused on pre-Columbian settings I feel that is quite appropriate. I was also pleased to see the use of Nation in lieu of tribe to refer to Native groups, and the occaisonal use of proper names (Dine instead of Navajo, for example, or Hasinai instead of Caddo). It really struck me that the authors were trying to be respectful of RL Native cultures. My only real gripe was that it stops at the Mexican border, leaving out the Aztecs, Maya and other Native Americans in Mexico and further south. Still, if you want a book that will help with a historical setting (like the Wild West, or even pre-Columbian times), or want more information on the Croatan, this is the book to get.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R2X6SINU4XV0FG	1852284056	128859433	Pow-wows: Or, Long-lost Friend	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Folk Magic from Rural America	Despite the title, this book has nothing to do with Native American beliefs and traditions. Its actually the folk beliefs of the Pensylvannia Dutch folk doctors, hex-crafters, magicians and healers. A unique blend of Christianity and German folklore, this book was a major influence on American folk magic (from Hoodoo to Appalachian study-witches) for many years, and was mentioned several times in the fictional works of Manly Wade Wellman. Its still practiced in some remote areas. It includes a number of charms, hexes and spells. Amongst these are numerous cures for bleeding, warts, colic, epilepsy, headaches, scurvy, tapeworms and many livestock ailments, as well as charms for a safe journey, catching lots of fish, legal success, protection against bullets, driving away vermin, bringing back lost animals and so forth. More esoteric/mystical things include spells against witchcraft, evil spirits and the like, as well as binding a theif or releasing someone from bindings. Theres also certain lore such as advice for pregnant women, unlucky days and hunting talismans.<br />This is quite an encyclopedic work, covering just about every element of rural folk magic in the United States. This is quite a wonderful book for anyone interested in magic, mysticism and the occult (especially in a historical, folk or Christian context), and a uniquely American book. Definately worth checking out.	2004-01-13
US	48854119	R1GDHDT0FCB42X	1588463214	9798242	Tribebook: Uktena (Werewolf)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	White Wolf Saved the Best for Last	Honestly, I may be somewhat biased as the Uktena are my favorite Tribe, but I would have to say this is the best Tribebook that was printed for Werewolf: the Apocalypse. The intro fiction was quite enjoyable, introducing us to Erishka Derr, a young Choctaw Uktena who just liberated a stolen Native American fetish from a museum and is acting as a body guard to Jolon, a kinfolk travelling to various Uktena septs around the world (and to Erishka's journal, a very clever plot device the authors used to insert differing opinions and commentary into the book). Together their travels help to introduce the Uktena Tribe in a really enjoyable manner.<br />Chapter One: Smoke Talk takes our protagonists to a small Seminole Sept in Florida where they learn about the Tribe's history from their arrival in the Pure Lands to the present debate about the Red Star, and everything in between. The Tribe's claiming of Uktena as a totem, the Anasazi, the arrival of the Wyrmbringers (Aztec Uktena were the first to meet them, starting with Shadow Lords who followed the conquistadors), the fall of the Croatan, the Trail of Tears, the War of Tears and the Tribe's arrival in Australia, the war for the Plains and much more gets covered. Even details on the Uktena's decision to include worthy outsiders. In addition, several sidebars provide info on stuff like a small Uktena cult that ate the hearts of it's enemies, the Ghost Dance (allegedly started by their Paiute kin), occult practices in the modern world, slavery and even opposing views on creation and the arrival of the Wyrmbringers. The chapter also closes out with a nice timeline, showing major events both in Uktena history and Native American histroy, with a definate focus on Nations of the california, southeast, southwest and Central America, like the Aztecs, Cherokee, Choctaw, Comanche, Navajo and Hopi. Enough here for any historical game, even if you know next to nothing about Native American history.<br />Feathered Dances, Hidden Hearts, covers the culture and society of the Uktena Tribe, and finds Jolon and Erishka going to a Cherokee Sept in Appalachia, a Navajo-Hopi Sept in Arizona, a Hawai'ian Sept, a Sept on the Texas-Mexico border and finally an Aboriginal Sept in Australia's Outback. Along the way we learn about Uktena views on the Litany, Auspices, Rites of Passage, Moots, Breeds and the Triat. A deeper look is taken at Uktena Totems, including Uktena himself and his home realm of Galunlati, and theres lots on Kinfolk both Native and non-Native. Theres also a look at the Camps, like the Earthguides, Bane Tenders, Scouts, Ghost Dancers and others. A new Camp, the Web Walkers (who study the Weaver), has formed, and the Society of the Bitter Frost has fallen to the Wyrm (a lesson in the dangers of hatred). Info on the Uktena's territories, from the Americas to Siberia and the Pacific Islands, is also given. It closes out with a look at outsiders, including other Tribes (even the Bunyip and Croatan), other Fera and various odds and ends like vampires, Nunnehi, shaman and witches.<br />The next Chapter, Deep Waters, gives all kinds of gaming goodies. Theres advice for fleshing out Uktena, such as culture, tribal relations and magic/spirituality, in addition to suggestions for Backgrounds. Amongst the crunchy bits are some new Abilities (Stickball, Gesture and Tribal Lore), lots of Gifts (some adapted from the old Tribebook and the Wild West, others being entirely new; Another's Moccasins, Indian Giver and Becoming Uktena are all pretty cool!), several new Rites (Mockery Curing Way and the Rite of Bane Binding are particularly memorable) and even new Fetishes and Talens (Snake Bow, Flint Arrow Shirt, Ulunsuti and Vision Paint, amongst others, are really neat). Theres also new Totems, like Gila Monster and Wild Turkey, and new spirit allies (including a wild turkey-gaffling). This chapter goes on examining key Septs across the world, including not only updates of Uktena Septs from Rage Across Appalachia, Rage Across Australia, Caerns: Places of Power and Rage Across Russia, but also a new Caern in Arizona that studies Aztec magic! It then ends with some advice for making it scary and mysterious, and some recommended reading. The selections are all excellent, ranging from the fiction of Manly Wade Wellman and Tony Hillerman to Native American mythology, Hawai'ian native activism and James Mooney's History, Myths and Sacred Formulas of the Cherokee. All are good reading.<br />The book ends with Bottomless Pools, which provides five Uktena templates as usual, one for each Auspice. Suprisingly, all of them are pretty cool and innovative, and they include a healer who mixes modern medicine with shamanism, a museum curator who liberates tribal fetishes, a lupus who seeks out new indigenous kinfolk, a traditional Navajo Singer and a investigator of the occult. Theres also a look at some Uktena of note, including not only the signature character Amy Hundred-Voices but a number of the characters from the text. Theres others too, like Tysoyaha a Miccosukee Ragabash who travelled to Africa to learn about the black slaves the Wyrmbringers brought to Florida and met with one of the Ananasi! And of course, theres an Uktena character sheet you can use in the back of the book.<br />All in all, this was an amazing book. Everything about it really captured the feel of the Uktena. It was especially interesting to see the focus on making them connected to Native cultures, especially the Maya, Ute, Zuni, Pueblos, Apache, Chickasaw, Seminole and other southern groups. While definately Native American feeling, the book makes it pretty clear that they are not connected to any one culture (in fact at one point they mention how sandpainting is something of the Navajo, not of theirs) yet at the same time open to all manner of indigenous peoples throughout the world. Occaisonal reference is made to Haitian voudon, the Hmong, Pacific Islanders, Maori, Lapps, Bedouin, the Ainu of Japan, Mongols, Yakuts and other native peoples the Uktena have taken in. It really is a nice book, probably one of the best resources for Werewolf. Check it out.ppalachia, Rage Across Australia, Caerns: Places of Power and Rage Across Russia, but also a new Caern in Arizona that studies Aztec magic! It then ends with some advice for making it scary and mysterious, and some recommended reading. The selections are all excellent, ranging from the fiction of Manly Wade Wellman and Tony Hillerman to Native American mythology, Hawai'ian native activism and James Mooney's History, Myths and Sacred Formulas of the Cherokee. All are good reading.<br />The book ends with Bottomless Pools, which provides five Uktena templates as usual, one for each Auspice. Suprisingly, all of them are pretty cool and innovative, and they include a healer who mixes modern medicine with shamanism, a museum curator who liberates tribal fetishes, a lupus who seeks out new indigenous kinfolk, a traditional Navajo Singer and a investigator of the occult. Theres also a look at some Uktena of note, including not only the signature character Amy Hundred-Voices but a number of the characters from the text. Theres others too, like Tysoyaha a Miccosukee Ragabash who travelled to Africa to learn about the black slaves the Wyrmbringers brought to Florida and met with one of the Ananasi! And of course, theres an Uktena character sheet you can use in the back of the book.<br />All in all, this was an amazing book. Everything about it really captured the feel of the Uktena. It was especially interesting to see the focus on making them connected to Native cultures, especially the Maya, Ute, Zuni, Pueblos, Apache, Chickasaw, Seminole and other southern groups. While definately Native American feeling, the book makes it pretty clear that they are not connected to any one culture (in fact at one point they mention how sandpainting is something of the Navajo, not of theirs) yet at the same time open to all manner of indigenous peoples throughout the world. Occaisonal reference is made to Haitian voudon, the Hmong, Pacific Islanders, Maori, Lapps, Bedouin, the Ainu of Japan, Mongols, Yakuts and other native peoples the Uktena have taken in. It really is a nice book, probably one of the best resources for Werewolf. Check it out.	2004-01-10
US	48854119	R16B7F8HRFZAY2	1588467023	102894159	Hunter Holy War *OP (Hunter: The Reckoning)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ignore the Title; Read the Book Anyway	Yeah I know, the word &quot;Jihad&quot; conjures up all manner of ignorant prejudices about Islam and the Middle East. The authors made a poor choice of words when they came up with the title for this release. Nonetheless, this is probably one of the best setting books released for Hunter: the Reckoning. Part of the Year of the Scarab setting, this book takes a closer look at Egypt and the Middle East. In fact, the introduction even goes a long way towards trying to dispell western stereotypes about the Middle East (even recommending further reading and viewing for more info on Islam, Arabic culture and the Middle East), and it does a wonderful job immersing itself in Arabic and Middle Eastern culture.<br />The first chapter introduces us to a number of Kiswah (the Arabic name for Imbued) and provides us with information on the Middle East. Theres a lexicon of terms used by Middle Eastern Hunters (all of whom share Arabic for some mystical reason; generally its held as proof that God chose the Hunters, as Arabic is seen as the language of God), as well as a basic introduction to Arabic culture. The major religions of the Middle East, such as Islam, Christianity and Judaism, are all mentioned. Then theres the &quot;survival guide&quot;, which mentions general information on what to do, where to go and what monsters exist in Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria and several other Middle Eastern countries. Chapter Two goes into the Kiswah's first attempts at working together, as well as theories on their purpose and origins, ranging from righteous Muslims who believe they were inspired by God to pre-Islamic Arab to skeptical scientists, and pretty much everything in between. It also looks at how Arab (and Jewish) Hunters view the different Creeds using Arabic and kabbalistic terms. Very nice for the setting.<br />In the next chapter, we are given some information on the Thalmudites (walking dead), Amalikites (spirits), Adites (vampires) and Midianites (shapeshifters) after four civilizations destroyed by God. It also gives some advice on the Hunt, including advice for each of the three Virtues on how to use your advantages. The next chapter gives even more advice on working together with other Kiswah, as well as other useful things for working in a group, such as the effort to unify all Kiswah, and the issues of cultural, ethnic and religious difference. As the book points out, there is a great deal of diversity in the Middle East beyond Arabs; Persians, Kurds, Turks, Yezidis, Druze, Bahai and lots more too. In addition, special mention is made of women's roles in society.<br />Chapter five finally starts giving us useful out-of-character information. An examination of the differences in theme and setting is given, along with some character creation guidelines. There aren't &quot;special rules&quot; for creating Kiswah that differ from mainstream western Hunters. What is given, though, is information on how certain Abilities and Backgrounds are going to be different in a Middle Eastern setting, along with some information on Abilities or Backgrounds that are very likely and which ones should be restricted (like Firearms and Arsenal, due to heavy restrictions on guns in many countries). In addition, an alternative look at the Creeds and Virtues is given, one which draws upon Arabic and Islamic culture. These changes are merely cosmetic, but do help establish the setting much better than the western names. In addition, a handful of new Edges are presented. Theres also a couple new systems, one for Al Ha'it (True Faith basically) and one for the Middle Eastern version of the Word (which always appears in Arabic).<br />The book closes out with a nice little chapter of ST specific material. This chapter goes more into detail on the setting, the reasoning behind the Word being in Arabic, Al Ha'it and even the secret police of the Kiswah. It closes up with a look at the Jinn (generic term for monsters) and some Kiswah of note. But this chapter should definately be left to STs, if only for the enjoyment of the game. Overall, I found this to be a wonderful book. While I'm not a big fan of the title, it really does do a nice job removing alot of stereotypes about the Middle East. The book is steeped in Arabic, Islamic and Middle Eastern culture, and makes it possible for anyone to understand and appreciate the setting. I strongly recommend that Hunter: the Reckoning players and STs check out this book, if only for a change of pace and an exciting new location, and any others in the Year of the Scarab series.e Kiswah of note. But this chapter should definately be left to STs, if only for the enjoyment of the game. Overall, I found this to be a wonderful book. While I'm not a big fan of the title, it really does do a nice job removing alot of stereotypes about the Middle East. The book is steeped in Arabic, Islamic and Middle Eastern culture, and makes it possible for anyone to understand and appreciate the setting. I strongly recommend that Hunter: the Reckoning players and STs check out this book, if only for a change of pace and an exciting new location, and any others in the Year of the Scarab series.	2004-01-10
US	48854119	RH6QX78S4Q1W3	158846301X	963042420	*OP Rage Across Egypt (Werewolf: The Apocalypse)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fight the Leeches on Their Own Turf!	Perhaps one of the most interesting setting books for Werewolf: the Apocalypse, this book ventures into Egypt, the ancient homeland of the Silent Striders. After a wonderful piece of fiction telling the tale of Nepthys, kin to the Silent Striders who fell into vampirism and the punishment she recieved, this book starts out with a nice introduction to the themes and mood of the setting, complete with a lexicon of Garou specific words for Egypt, the Middle East and Africa. The next chapter covers the history of Egypt from the Garou's point of view (with input on the Mokole and Bastet), starting from Set and Osiris' war in ancient Egypt to the coming of Islam to the British, French and Turksih occupations to the modern era. Theres even a nice little timeline of Egypt's history with dates, and a chronology of rulers (the various Egyptian Dynasties, the Roman and Byzantine Empires, Arab Caliphates, etc).<br />In the subsequent chapter we get a look at major elements in Egypt's culture, politics, geography and environment including a look at Islam, political parties, indigenous wildlife, minorities like the Copts, ancient ruins, cities like Cairo and Alexandria and places such as Lake Nasser or the Sinai. More importantly, there is an examination of the supernatural side of Egypt, including a look at the Tuat, Egypt's unique cultural spin on the Umbra, which includes four Umbral Towers (one for each element and direction, spiritually marking the boundaries of Egypt's borders) and the Twelve Hours of the Night (twelve Umbral Domains from Egypt's mythology). There is also a look at major Garou and Wyrm Caerns in Egypt. The next chaper goes onto to cover major NPCs for each Tribe, including Cairene Glass Walkers and Bone Gnawers, the Silver Fangs of House Wise Heart, Bedouin Uktena, Red Talons in the Western Desert, Sufic Stargazers, British Fianna and, of course, the Silent Striders.<br />The fourth chapter looks at major storyteller devices in Egypt, such as Jackal Fever, the Eaters of the Dead, the Egyptian Umbra, Sutekh's Curse and a secret Rite developed by the Children of Gaia that allows the Silent Striders to briefly return to Egypt. Theres also an examination of the Ahadi, an alliance of African Fera which includes Egypt in it's territory, and a look at the native Shifters of Egypt (Mokole, Bastet, etc), as well as some information for games set in ancient Egypt. Following this is a chapter on various antagonists in Egypt, such as the vampiric Followers of Set, Endron Oil (a subsidiary of Pentex), the Black Spiral Dancers, the Ratkin of Suez and even a few horrors unique to Egypt. This book does a wonderful job covering Egypt (and the Middle East in general), especially with the metaplot of the Striders trying to retake their homeland from the Leeches. Not only that, but your players can get in on everything from Jackal Fever and the fall of House Wise Heart to the sealing of the Ahadi. A great resource, and it fits in well with other Mummy and &quot;Year of the Scarab&quot; products in representing Egypt and the Middle East.the Eaters of the Dead, the Egyptian Umbra, Sutekh's Curse and a secret Rite developed by the Children of Gaia that allows the Silent Striders to briefly return to Egypt. Theres also an examination of the Ahadi, an alliance of African Fera which includes Egypt in it's territory, and a look at the native Shifters of Egypt (Mokole, Bastet, etc), as well as some information for games set in ancient Egypt. Following this is a chapter on various antagonists in Egypt, such as the vampiric Followers of Set, Endron Oil (a subsidiary of Pentex), the Black Spiral Dancers, the Ratkin of Suez and even a few horrors unique to Egypt. This book does a wonderful job covering Egypt (and the Middle East in general), especially with the metaplot of the Striders trying to retake their homeland from the Leeches. Not only that, but your players can get in on everything from Jackal Fever and the fall of House Wise Heart to the sealing of the Ahadi. A great resource, and it fits in well with other Mummy and &quot;Year of the Scarab&quot; products in representing Egypt and the Middle East.	2004-01-08
US	48854119	RFDX6TNR7KTXY	0806130121	612109792	The Mythology of Native North America	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Introduction to Turtle Island's Myths	This book is a wonderful introduction to the general mythologies of North America. After explaining the importance of Native American myths, Leeming and Page give a wonderful introduction to Native American culture, pointing out shared traits and beliefs (such as the earth-diver creation story) that can be found from Siberia and northern Eurasia to North America down through Central and South America. They then examine the different culture areas (the Arctic, Subarctic, Northwest Woodlands, Southeast Woodlands, Great Plains, Northwest Coast, California and the Great Basin and the Southwest), looking at major themes, language groupings and Nations in each region. More than anything else this shows both the unity of the First Nations, and the diversity as even close neighbors differed signifcantly in culture at times.<br />The first chapter looks at Native American pantheons, showing universal archetypes such as the world creator, the mother figure and the supreme god. Each one gives a few Native American myths to support it, ranging from traditional Native American myths (both told by Native peoples and recorded by anthropologists) to Oglala holy man Black Elk to James Mooney's massive Myths of the Cherokees, and covering a wide variety of Nations and regions. It then goes on to look at other figures central to Native culture, such as the Trickster (coyote, raven, Manabozho, Glooskap, etc), the Dying God and a wide variety of other kachinas, manitous and spirits. Again a wide variety of Nations are examined, including Sioux, Cherokee, Penobscott, Maidu, Luise&ntilde;os, Ojibway, Apache and many others besides.<br />The next chapter takes an in depth look at Native American cosmology, starting with the creation. Several versions of the earth diver creation myth, dominant in both North America and Siberia, is contrasted with the emergence myth of the Hopi, Din&eacute; (Navajo), Apache and other Nations of the Southwest. A handful of other creation myths are given, including those of Nations such as the Yokuts, Chuckchi (actually Siberian, but included to show the shared cultures of North America and Siberia) and Blackfoot who believe that an omnipotent Creator made the world. Beyond that are a handful of tales describing the universal flood myth, the afterlife and ultimately the end of the world, bringing the cycle of life full circle and illustrating the cyclical nature of many Native culture's world views.<br />Finally, the book closes out with looking at hero figures; culture heroes, monster slayers, hero twins (a major theme throughout the Americas really) and so forth. Included here are such legendary hero figures as the Din&eacute; (Navajo) hero twins, Glooskap (Algonquian), Sweet Medicine (Cheyenne) and Blot Clot (Blackfoot), amongst others. Really this book is a wonderful introduction to Native American beliefs and stories. As I said before, a wide range of Nations is covered, including the Pueblos, Pawnee, Pomo, Tohono O'odham, Kiowa, Yuchi, Caddo, Arikara and even M&eacute;tis. Since it covers so many regions and major themes, it is an excellent introduction to a pan-North American mythology. I really suggest that anyone interested in Native American (or world) mythology.of Nations such as the Yokuts, Chuckchi (actually Siberian, but included to show the shared cultures of North America and Siberia) and Blackfoot who believe that an omnipotent Creator made the world. Beyond that are a handful of tales describing the universal flood myth, the afterlife and ultimately the end of the world, bringing the cycle of life full circle and illustrating the cyclical nature of many Native culture's world views.<br />Finally, the book closes out with looking at hero figures; culture heroes, monster slayers, hero twins (a major theme throughout the Americas really) and so forth. Included here are such legendary hero figures as the Din (Navajo) hero twins, Glooskap (Algonquian), Sweet Medicine (Cheyenne) and Blot Clot (Blackfoot), amongst others. Really this book is a wonderful introduction to Native American beliefs and stories. As I said before, a wide range of Nations is covered, including the Pueblos, Pawnee, Pomo, Tohono O'odham, Kiowa, Yuchi, Caddo, Arikara and even Mtis. Since it covers so many regions and major themes, it is an excellent introduction to a pan-North American mythology. I really suggest that anyone interested in Native American (or world) mythology.	2004-01-08
US	48854119	R31097LTGFLS2K	1565044061	796437169	Mage Storytellers Companion (Mage Storyteller's Guide)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Decent Resource for STs	Either you love the Revised setting or you hated it and I'm really not interested in swaying anyones opinions one way or another. But I will say that I found quite a few useful resources for my games in this book, so its good enough for me. It starts off with a timeline of history from the Mage point of view, including the new plot devices in the Mage setting, such as the Avatar-Storm, the Technocracy's &quot;victory&quot; and the pogrom against the Crafts. It then goes on to explore the Crafts, giving some basic information on them and their fates. Most joined the Traditions, such as the Wu Lung allying with the Akashics, the Kopa Loei and Bata'a going with the Dreamspeakers and the Children of Knowledge being accepted into the Hermetics. Others, like the Hem-ka Sobk, had more mysterious fates. Full write ups for the surviving Crafts (the Ahl-i-Batin, Taftani, Sisters of Hippolyta and Knights Templar) are given. The book then closes out with two chapters, one on spirits and bygones, the other on Talismans, Fetishes, Charms, Familars and other Wonders. These are fairly detailed rules that were left out of the core rule book.<br />In the end, I've found parts of the book useful. The material on the Crafts, especially the Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani, has been useful in my non-western games. The stuff on spirits and bygones is also pretty nifty, as are the various Wonders. But in the end, it really depends on how much (or little) you plan on using such material. There are other books out there (Book of Crafts, Lost Paths, Forged in Dragon's Fire, Infinite Tapestry, Bygone Bestiary, etc), or you could even use your imagination. So ultimately, just look over my review and think about whether or not it would be worth it before you buy this book.	2004-01-08
US	48854119	R3C47CGC8FLMWJ	1565040848	527893430	Book Of Chantries *OP (Mage)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Old Mage Material but Still Good	This really old and out-dated Mage book gives detailed information concerning Chantries and how to make them. It starts out with some very basic stuff about Chantries and Cabals, but then goes on to give a handful of sample Chantries. The first five are Tradition Chantries, including Doissetep, the corrupted Euthanatoi House of Helekar, the Lodge of the Gray Squirrel, Vali Shallar and a haunted mansion controlled by the Hollow Ones. By far and away I found the Lodge of the Gray Squirrel and Vali Shallar to be the two most interesting of these. The former being a pan-Native American Dreamspeaker realm dwelling the spirit worlds of the Dine (Navajo) and including Native American medicine lodges and survivors of Tecumseh's war. Vali Shallar, conversely was an ancient Mayan-Toltec Dreamspeaker realm that was invaded by a group of Akashic refugees from Tibet and Nepal. Today it is split between the two Traditions and fuses Asian, Latin American and Pacific cultures together. I've brought both into games in the past, particularly the first (and both made it into the revised setting). Others might find more use for other Chantries, particularly Doissetep and the House of Helekar which feature in the revised metaplot.<br />There are also details concerning Chantries controlled by the &quot;enemy&quot;. One chapter covers the Technocracy and includes Null-B, the Technocracy's greatest Construct, as well as Iteration-X's slave labor facility in MECHA and the Progenitor's realm of Moreauvia where they use genetic engineering to create beast men. The next covers the Nephandi, including a sea of darkness ruled over by a Dreamspeaker barrabi and the criminal underground of Chicago's Chinatown which is led by a fallen Akashic. Alot of this stuff smacks of second edition stereotypes about the Technocracy being &quot;evvvvvil!&quot; but you can still get lots of use out of it. It closes out with some great rules for creating Chantries in depth (and EVERY aspect you can imagine) plus some legendary Chantries, but also includes an annoying game you can run involving Sam Haight (*ick*) plundering from a Verbena farm Chantry in rural Kansas. Just ignore it and its a fairly decent, if dated, book.some legendary Chantries, but also includes an annoying game you can run involving Sam Haight (*ick*) plundering from a Verbena farm Chantry in rural Kansas. Just ignore it and its a fairly decent, if dated, book.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R24NUIIZTEKPWS	1565044290	40575109	Lost Paths 1 (Mage: The Ascension)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Two Trad Books plus the Djinn! All Right!	Since the early days of Mage, I've wanted to see more on the Ahl-i-Batin. This book gives all that plus more about Mages in the Middle East and even material on the Djinn, spirits unique to the Middle East. The first chapter covers the Ahl-i-Batin, the subtle Arabian magi who seek unity, and opens with perhaps one of the most interesting fictions in any Mage supplement in which a Batini magus decieves one of their ancient foes the Nephandi. It then gives a whole bunch of Arabic words used by the Batini. It then details their origins from the meeting of Akashic refugees of the Himalayan Wars and Ecstatic dervishes of Perisa to the modern times. Major things, such as the rise of Islam (which the Batini supported) to the Technocracy's war on the Batini to their growing influence in modern Iran's Shi'ite government complete with a timeline. It then examines the Batini's power and influence in the Web of Faith (which stretches across the Islamic world) and the five schools of the Batini (kabbalists of the University of Light, alchemists and architects of the Silk Cartel, assassins of the Ikwhan at-Tawhid, sufis of the Darwushim and mentalists of the Paradise Garden). There are plenty of new Rotes, details on Batini magic, foci and philosophy and some interesting signature characters and templates. More importantly it also details the unique aspects of Batini magic (they begin with extra Arcane and can have Arcane ratings above 5, but cannot learn Entropy).<br />The next chapter details the Taftani, extremely vulgar Persian magi who summon djinn, make flying carpets and shoot fireballs. First introduced in the Sorcerer Crusade's Player's Guide, this book fleshes them out by making their beliefs more interesting, drawing upon Zoroastrianism and Middle Eastern paganism. This chapter examines not only the beliefs of the Taftani but also a timeline of their history from ancient kingdoms in Petra and Mesopotamia to their suppression under Islam to their influence amongst Afghani warlords. Along with a map of Persia and Afghanistan, we are treated to areas where the Taftani are strong: Arabia, Turkey, North Africa and so forth. Ironically the same places as the Batini (like the Batini, some accompanied the Moors into Spain, followed Arab immigrants to Detroit or chose to settle in the deserts of Mexico and the southwestern US). Their two factions are examined, the Zaotar who embody vulgar magic in all its forms and the subtle Kahin, who use poetry and divination to work their magics. Theres also details on their magic, beliefs, some signature characters and templates, new rotes, information on Djinn summoning and binding and a few sample spirit minions. Theres also legends of the City of Brass and Irem of the Pillars.<br />The book closes out with a short chapter on the Djinn, their history, their courts (from their Sultans and Caliphs to lowly commoners) and social structure (such as Shayateen, Efrit and so forth) and how to create and use Djinn in games. Basically, they are treated as extremely power spirits. There are also a couple sample Djinn presented.<br />Overall, its a pretty nice book to get, but there are a couple errors and mistakes that keep it from being ideal. For instance, a big point is made of how the Taftani avoid the use of Arabic words in favor of Persian, because of their rejection of Islam, but it then goes on to list the Taftani's major languages as including Gujarati, Armenian, Greek, Avestan, Pahlavi, Sanskrit and... Arabic! Likewise, Ar-Rutbah is mentioned as being a major Batini outpost in Iran, even though it is in Iraq (and in fact theres even a map showing it IN IRAQ!). A couple other examples are in there. But in general its a nice book for information on the Batini, Taftani and Djinn, as well as providing some nice details for a Middle Eastern/Islamic setting for Mage games. Its even better if you use it alongside the information on the Web of Faith in Guide to the Traditions.ni warlords. Along with a map of Persia and Afghanistan, we are treated to areas where the Taftani are strong: Arabia, Turkey, North Africa and so forth. Ironically the same places as the Batini (like the Batini, some accompanied the Moors into Spain, followed Arab immigrants to Detroit or chose to settle in the deserts of Mexico and the southwestern US). Their two factions are examined, the Zaotar who embody vulgar magic in all its forms and the subtle Kahin, who use poetry and divination to work their magics. Theres also details on their magic, beliefs, some signature characters and templates, new rotes, information on Djinn summoning and binding and a few sample spirit minions. Theres also legends of the City of Brass and Irem of the Pillars.<br />The book closes out with a short chapter on the Djinn, their history, their courts (from their Sultans and Caliphs to lowly commoners) and social structure (such as Shayateen, Efrit and so forth) and how to create and use Djinn in games. Basically, they are treated as extremely power spirits. There are also a couple sample Djinn presented.<br />Overall, its a pretty nice book to get, but there are a couple errors and mistakes that keep it from being ideal. For instance, a big point is made of how the Taftani avoid the use of Arabic words in favor of Persian, because of their rejection of Islam, but it then goes on to list the Taftani's major languages as including Gujarati, Armenian, Greek, Avestan, Pahlavi, Sanskrit and... Arabic! Likewise, Ar-Rutbah is mentioned as being a major Batini outpost in Iran, even though it is in Iraq (and in fact theres even a map showing it IN IRAQ!). A couple other examples are in there. But in general its a nice book for information on the Batini, Taftani and Djinn, as well as providing some nice details for a Middle Eastern/Islamic setting for Mage games. Its even better if you use it alongside the information on the Web of Faith in Guide to the Traditions.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	RZ0F0XCT637TT	0806128496	790282315	Pocahontass People: The Powhatan Indians of Virginia Through Four Centuries (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Wonderful Look at the &quot;Forgotten Indians&quot; of the East	As the previous reviewer said, this book does a wonderful job examing the history of the Powhatana Confederation of Virgina through the past four centuries. Often forgotten about by the American public at large the Powhatans (actually several different Algonquian speaking Nations joined together into a single Confederacy) played a major role in US history almost from the beginning. Indeed, as the title suggests, Pocahontas herself was one of their most well known members.<br />Starting with an examination of pre-contact Powhatan life and culture, Rountree goes on to examine the first meetings between the Chickahominies and the Spanish conquistadors, early encounters with the British settlers, the Revolutionary War, the Civil War and Indian removal. Especially interesting are the last couple chapters which focus on Indian rights activism in the last century. The Powhatan (like any of the other First Nations) never went away and have had to struggle to gain their own reservation, and even federal recognition. The book ends with a wonderfully long and detailed bibliography.<br />This book really tells of their struggles and triumphs, and more than anything else I would say that this book gives a wonderful background for understanding where the peoples of the Powhatan Confederation have come from. Anyone with an interest in Native American studies should definately check out this book and the others in the Civilization of the American Indians series.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	RVZQWNR1LWBZ9	0820320625	469670204	Knights of Spain, Warriors of the Sun: Hernando de Soto and the South's Ancient Chiefdoms	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent Look at the Forgotten Conquest	Charles Hudson is one of the greatest authors on the Nations of the Southeastern States, and in this book he turns his attentions towards their early contacts with the Spanish conquistadors in the mid-1500s. The first chapter of the book is nice, giving historical backgrounds and cultural details concerning both the Spanish (who had recently unified their country and having driven the Muslims and Jews out, were eager for more conquests) and the Mound Builders (who were in fact several highly developed civilizations throughout the Southeast).<br />He then goes on to a very detailed examination of Hernando de Soto. He is examined, and we are given insight into every aspect of his expedition from his arrival in Florida all the way up to the end. The book is read in a linear fashion, making the story much easier to follow and the book focuses on specific places, villages and Nations that de Soto encountered. More than anything, his expedition had a negative impact on the Southeastern civilizations, gradually weakening them through disease, depletions of food and outright murder, rape and kidnappings. This would have such an impact that old Nations eroded away and gave rise to new Nations. Those that encountered the British and Americans later, such as the Five Civilized Nations (Cherokee, Seminole, Creek, Choctaw and Chickasaw), Powhatan Confederation and Tuscarora, were vastly different from their ancestors.<br />The book closes out with a look at what happened after de Soto's expedition and includes a very thorough bibliography. It is also lavishly illustrated, including almost a hundred photographs of artifacts from Cahokia and other Mississippian civilizations, woodcuts, drawings of Indian dwellings and cities, photos of the Southeastern landscape and even recreationists in full Spanish military gear. Plus lots of maps of archaeological cultures in the Southeast, de Soto's route and so forth. A very nice book explaining the mysterious Indians of the Southeast and their early (and largely forgotten) contact with the Spaniards.eir early (and largely forgotten) contact with the Spaniards.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R31IEAJ0P9PXHV	1888358238	104835623	Spirit into Sound: The Magic of Music	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Nice Coffee Book	I really must admit that I enjoy reading Mickey Hart's works. They are very philosophical, showing how music and spirituality are connected together throughout time. In this book, he mixes his own thoughts and ideas with a variety of quotes about music and some nice clip art of music, dancing, instruments and musicians. The quotes are grouped together through chapters of related concepts, such as spirituality, the cosmos and society and span almost every source from traditional Chinese, Greek and Islamic traditions to Jerry Garcia, Ice-T, Bob Marley, Miles Davis, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Peter Gabriel and John Updike. Interesting figures such as Nietzsche, Tolstoy, Plato, Confucious, Einstein, Ishaq ibn Ibrahim, Rumi, Mircea Eliade, Ruth Inge-Heinz, Ayatollah Khomeini, Martin Luther, Inayat Khan, Mencious, Karl Marx and many more are quoted too.<br />This isn't really deep reading, but it is very interesting and thought-provoking nonetheless. Every single quote will make you rethink the way you listen to music and what exactly it means to you. I think that any music fan should at least glance this book over.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R1SOMCRYEUBFUW	1588462153	307082110	Cairo by Night (Vampire: the Masquerade)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Best City Book Ever	This is perhaps the greatest setting book White Wolf has made for Vampire: the Masquerade. Suleiman managed to do a wonderful job weaving together major themes, landmarks and Arabic words (as well as cultural sources like the books of Naguib Mahfouz and al-Jeel and Shaabi music) to give an outsider an understanding of what Cairo is like. The history section is also well done, exploring every aspect of Egypt's history from pre-dynastic times to the Romans to the Arab invastion and the Crusades to the Mamelukes to the British and ultimately Egypt's independance. All of this is very well researched but also does a wonderful job placing vampiric politics in the shadows behind mortal history. The conflicts of the Setites, Children of Osiris, Assamites, Ashirra and European Clans are all secretive and far-reaching but don't directly affect mortal history. Anyway, whats really nice is that the information is detailed enough that with but a couple changes you can run the material in this book in any time period.<br />The book then goes on to detail the vampiric divisions of Cairo, elysiums, historical landmarks and so forth. Lots of maps and so forth. It then examines the different clans in Cairo, based on where they hold power, as well as various vampiric factions such as the Ashirra, the Hajj (Islamic Nosferatu), Sabbat, Inconnu and Disciples of Anubis (bunch of Gangrel practicing Egyptian magics). Mortal organizations like the Arcanum, the Cult of Isis, the Ikwhan al-Safa (Muslim witch hunters), Setite cults and the Akritai (Orthodox Chirstian version of the Society of Leopold). It also features a new Thaumaturgy path developed by the Setites, and a couple Akhu rituals. Most of the characters are pretty interesting, though a couple (like ibn Khaldun and Kahina) are based off real life historical personalities. Not sure why White Wolf would go back to doing that.<br />The last chapter gives an overview of major themes in Cairo that STs can use. Things like basic beliefs of Islam, the Ashirra sect (Muslim vampires described in more detail in Veil of Night and other books), Mosques and Churches with True Faith, the Setite Courts of Egypt and some metaplot stuff. Lots of Mummy crossover potential, with the old feud between Sutekh and Osiris, plus some other cool secret stuff. Really a great and useful book for running any games in the Middle East.f Islam, the Ashirra sect (Muslim vampires described in more detail in Veil of Night and other books), Mosques and Churches with True Faith, the Setite Courts of Egypt and some metaplot stuff. Lots of Mummy crossover potential, with the old feud between Sutekh and Osiris, plus some other cool secret stuff. Really a great and useful book for running any games in the Middle East.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	RLNF0SH9V97S2	0806122668	909538302	Popol Vuh: The Sacred Book of the Ancient Quiche Maya (Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Sacred Book of the Maya	A common misconception is that the Native Americans did not have a written language. While it is true most Nations didn't, the fact is that the Zapotecs, Mayans and others in Mesoamerica did in fact have a great many books, though most of their sacred texts were lost to the fires of the Spanish conquistadors and missionaries. The Popol Vuh is a creation story and mythical history of the Quiche Maya, and one of their few books to survive. This first English translation of the book is still one of the best and certainly a great source for gaining an understanding of Mayan religion and belief.<br />The book opens with a wonderful introduction that gives a background both of Mayan literature and of this book in particular, mentioning different authors, translators and copies through time. Its a wonderful introduction for a history of the Popol Vuh. It then goes to the translation itself, which includes the Mayan Creation story (which includes the Creators, and several creations and subsequent destructions of the world and mankind, a theme repeated amongst many other Native American Nations of Mexico and Central America) as well as the hero twins Hunahpu and Xblanque and their exploits against the Lords of Xibala (again, the theme of hero twins being repeated amongst many Nations in North and South America) and the kings of the Quiche Maya. Here we see divine right used as a justification for monarchy, a theme common the world over.<br />This is a wonderful book, detailing Native American religions and one of the few such books that is not taken from the notes of outsiders. It gives terrific insights into Mayan culture both today and in pre-contact and colonial times. Its also pretty nice to learn about the early literary traditions of the Americas. I strongly recommend anyone with an interest in Native American cultures and history check out both this and other books in the Civilization of the American Indians series from the University of Oklahoma.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R1NKI9ORG73HDD	0671654187	299687938	JOHN THE BALLADEER	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A True American Hero	Manly Wade Wellman is perhaps one of the greatest sci-fi/fantasy/horror pulp writters in American literature. His stories drew upon a rich vein of southern folk lore from the Appalachias mixing Cherokee myths with Scots-Irish ballads. His character John (just named John) is a likable hero who wanders the mountains with his silver strung guitar, thwarting all manner of supernatural threats with his wits, common sense and knowledge of the old ballads. Along the way he ecnounters hoodoo men, witch-women, ghosts, raven-mockers, familars and all kinds of other horrors living in the backwoods. In this collection, all of the Silver John short stories are collected together (though there are five full length novels featuring the character, and Wellman liked to claim that two other short stories featured John before he got the guitar).<br />Perhaps the most interesting aspect of Wellman's fiction is that it does draw upon uniquely American themes, and John is a very down-to-earth hero of the common people. As such, it really earns its place as something that represents the best ideals of American folk lore. Definately worth checking out, especially if your into Lovecraft, Shaver, Blackwood and the like. And if you like this collection, then check out some of the other anthologies of Wellman's work. Trust me, you'll like it.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	REE0LEU36Y1LL	0806112557	267286493	The Seminoles (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	History of a Southern People	The Seminoles are one of the most fascinating Nations of North America, and this book does a wonderful job explaining their history and background. The first chapter explains the origins of the Seminole Nation, being the descendants of various survivors of Florida Nations such as the Mayucas, Ays, Timuqua, Tegesta and others decimated by the Spanish conquistadors, refugee Creek Indians from the Southeastern US and runaway black slaves. It also gives some cultural background on the Seminole and their languages (Muskogee, Hitchiti and Miccosukee). Thus the Seminole are in fact a recent Nation of runaways and refugees (as their name in fact means). It then goes on in the next chapters to show Seminole relations with both the United States and Spain (who then controlled Florida) in the early days, and how difficult things were living between two colonial powers.<br />It gives some interesting details concerning the Seminoles and their alliances, treaties and dealings with Spain, the US government and the Creeks around the 1800's, and ultimately how things changed for the Seminole with the United State's acquisition of Florida from Spain. A great deal of the book then focuses on Indian removal and the Seminole Wars. Like the Cherokees, Creeks, Chickasaw and Choctaw, the Seminole found themselves illegally deported from their homelands in the Southeast to Indian Territory (Oklahoma) and fought greatly to resist it. In part this was because the Euro-Americans wanted Seminole lands in Florida, but in part because of the Seminole's adoption of runaway slaves.<br />The Seminole Wars were fascinating (and quite needless) wars which wound up costing the US government thirty million dollars and the lives of over a thousand marines and soldiers. Quite ironic that Jackson was so determined to drive the Seminole from their homeland; something that he failed in as hundreds of Seminole remained in Florida. The book then goes on to a fascinating chapter on the Southeastern Indians in the Civil War, and how the Cherokee, Seminoles and Creeks were devestated by the war, and how they probably would have preferred neutrality. It gives details on activites in the Civil War, including why so many Southern Nations found themselves sympathyzing with the Confederates (the same people who wanted to claim their homelands ironically) and why so many later switched to the Union. It then goes to another chapter on how life changed for the Seminoles after the Civil War.<br />Interestingly enough the book closes out looking at the transition towards US citizenship for the Seminoles. It ends in the early part of the 1900s, but it does a very nice job showing just how much the Seminoles had changed since they came into being as a Nation and what they had gone through. Ultimately its a very nice book on the history of the Seminoles, and if you have an interest in Native American history I strongly recommend this book and others in the Civilization of the American Indians series from the University of Oklahoma.the Civil War, and how the Cherokee, Seminoles and Creeks were devestated by the war, and how they probably would have preferred neutrality. It gives details on activites in the Civil War, including why so many Southern Nations found themselves sympathyzing with the Confederates (the same people who wanted to claim their homelands ironically) and why so many later switched to the Union. It then goes to another chapter on how life changed for the Seminoles after the Civil War.<br />Interestingly enough the book closes out looking at the transition towards US citizenship for the Seminoles. It ends in the early part of the 1900s, but it does a very nice job showing just how much the Seminoles had changed since they came into being as a Nation and what they had gone through. Ultimately its a very nice book on the history of the Seminoles, and if you have an interest in Native American history I strongly recommend this book and others in the Civilization of the American Indians series from the University of Oklahoma.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R3W1I9JFURIW3R	0806111712	408582523	Southern Indians: The Story of the Civilized Tribes (Civilization of the American Indian)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	History of the First Nations	The Native Americans of the Southeast such as the Moundbuilders and the Five Civilized Tribes (the Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek and Seminole) ejoyed a particularly rich and highly developed culture before European contact. This book explores their background and history. In the first chapter, Cotterill exmines the pre-contact migrations of the Siouian, Algonquian and Muskogean Nations and their village lifestyles, cultures and government. This sets the stage for their early meetings with the English colonists, and after the Revolutionary War, the Americans as well. Several chapters go into the gradual decline of the southern Nations as they found more and more of their lands claimed by Euro-American settlers who saw today's Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississipi and the Carlonias as valuable real estate.<br />Several historical figures and events are mentioned, such as Alexander McGillivray (Creek leader who sought an alliance with Spain against the state of Georgia), Tecumseh (the Shawnee war leader who sought to unify the Indians against Euro-American settlers) and the Creek Wars. After the Creek Wars, the book focuses an entire chapter on the beginnings of Indian Removal in 1820 which would ultimately culminate in the Trail of Tears, Andrew Jackson's forced (and illegal) deportation of the Cherokee, Creek, Chickasaw, Choctaw and Seminole from their homelands in the Southeast to &quot;Indian Territory&quot; (Oklahoma).<br />It then has a further chapter focusing on how the Southern Indians changed and adapted in the fifty years afterwards, in dress, culture, dwellings, education, language and religion. The final chapter covers 1825-1830, the final removal of the Southern Nations. It focuses on the struggles (both physical and in court) that the Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek and especially Seminole faced with being relocated to reservations and ultimately the Trails of Tears, in which Andrew Jackson (illegally; the Cherokee won against him in court but he ignored that ruling) deported members of the Five Nations from their homelands in the south to Indian Territory (today's Oklahoma).<br />This is really a nice, scholarly book for understanding the history of the Five Civilized Tribes of the Southeast. It is particularly nice as it focuses on a specific timeframe (from English contact to 1830) and a specific area (the traditional homelands in the Southeast), so the focus is much more specific than it could be otherwise. My only criticism of this book is that information on the Seminole is fairly scant. Still, this is an excellent book for pure history of any of the Nations in the Southeast and if you are studying Native American history or culture, I strongly recommend this book and others in the series.he ignored that ruling) deported members of the Five Nations from their homelands in the south to Indian Territory (today's Oklahoma).<br />This is really a nice, scholarly book for understanding the history of the Five Civilized Tribes of the Southeast. It is particularly nice as it focuses on a specific timeframe (from English contact to 1830) and a specific area (the traditional homelands in the Southeast), so the focus is much more specific than it could be otherwise. My only criticism of this book is that information on the Seminole is fairly scant. Still, this is an excellent book for pure history of any of the Nations in the Southeast and if you are studying Native American history or culture, I strongly recommend this book and others in the series.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R3DBDRN5CA6U5	1565043626	430730316	*OP World of Rage (Werewolf: The Apocalypse)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Rage Across... The World?!?!	Okay, well don't get me wrong. This is a decent book, but my two biggest criticisms are that its pretty akward, with parts being better written than others, and also that it is very metaplot heavy. Overall, it does what it sets out to do, covering different parts of the world and how the Garou fight the war here and there. But alot of the stuff is stuff that you could get by researching that particular country or region, while other stuff is just updates on Rage across X.<br />The first part covers the Americas, including Canada, the US, Mexico and South America (with an update on the Amazon War). The tribal dynamics are examined, showing why certain tribes are more populous in certain regions, as well as the concerns of the Garou (and to a lesser degree other Fera) in the region and even interesting cultural tidbits (like a note on the Metis and Inuit Nations of Canada, or the U'wa and their struggle with Occidental petrolium in Colombia; frighteningly enough thats from the real world and NOT the WoD). Nothing that you couldn't assume or do yourself with your own research but still interesting. I also found the conflicts between the Wyrmcomer European tribes (the Fianna, Get and Silver Fangs mainly) and the Pure Ones (the Wendigo in Canada and the northern US, the Croatan on the eastern coast, and the Uktena in the southern US, Mexico and South America) to be interesting. But then the Uktena and Wendigo are really fun tribes.<br />The next section covers Europe and its current problems. Tribal structure is much more regional in this case (eastern Europe is Shadow Lord territory, Germany and Scandinavia is mainly Get, the British Isles, Spain and France is mainly Fianna, etc) and each Tribe's write up includes regional concerns and issues. It then goes on to Russia, which is basically an update of the fall of Baba Yaga and the Shadow Curtain. Having Rage across Russia helps out alot here. The most interesting section by far, however, is the Middle East and Africa, which covers the formation of the Ahadi, an alliance between the Silent Striders, African wild dog Talons, Mokole, Bastet and other African shifters to defeat Black Tooth. This is very metaplot heavy stuff and I found great use for it in my chronicles already. Admittedly not the greatest, as Africa is divided more by region (explaining chronologically how each region played a role in Black Tooth's fall and what each Tribe and Fera breed is up to there now) and info on the Middle East is mainly just a bunch of random facts and statistics focusing on every country from Bahrain to Yemen. Still great stuff, especially if you have Rage Across Egypt or working knowledge of African/Mid-Eastern history and culture.<br />The section on Asia, or rather South and East Asia was suprisingly thin. It does tell stuff about the breeds and interests in each region, as well as an update on the Stargazers, but you almost need Hengeyokai to follow the whole thing. Also, India was scarcely covered, which I found to be a shame with there being so many wolves in India in the real world. Plus they never actually detailed the Indian shifters in detail, save to say that its different from both the &quot;east&quot; and the &quot;west&quot;. The section on the South Pacific gives a look at the Garou in Indonesia, New Zealand and Polynesia plus a quick update of Rage across Australia. It then goes on with some dark lore about ancient evils sleeping under the ice in Antarctica. Very Lovecraftian.<br />As I said, it is an interesting book and certainly worth using. I especially loved the Ahadi-Black Tooth material in Africa and the Middle East and the stuff about the Pure Ones in the Americas section. But I was equally disappointed with the scant information on India and the Pacific. So its kind of a mixed bag. Take it for whatever you want, but it depends on how much use you expect to get out of this stuff.hich covers the formation of the Ahadi, an alliance between the Silent Striders, African wild dog Talons, Mokole, Bastet and other African shifters to defeat Black Tooth. This is very metaplot heavy stuff and I found great use for it in my chronicles already. Admittedly not the greatest, as Africa is divided more by region (explaining chronologically how each region played a role in Black Tooth's fall and what each Tribe and Fera breed is up to there now) and info on the Middle East is mainly just a bunch of random facts and statistics focusing on every country from Bahrain to Yemen. Still great stuff, especially if you have Rage Across Egypt or working knowledge of African/Mid-Eastern history and culture.<br />The section on Asia, or rather South and East Asia was suprisingly thin. It does tell stuff about the breeds and interests in each region, as well as an update on the Stargazers, but you almost need Hengeyokai to follow the whole thing. Also, India was scarcely covered, which I found to be a shame with there being so many wolves in India in the real world. Plus they never actually detailed the Indian shifters in detail, save to say that its different from both the &quot;east&quot; and the &quot;west&quot;. The section on the South Pacific gives a look at the Garou in Indonesia, New Zealand and Polynesia plus a quick update of Rage across Australia. It then goes on with some dark lore about ancient evils sleeping under the ice in Antarctica. Very Lovecraftian.<br />As I said, it is an interesting book and certainly worth using. I especially loved the Ahadi-Black Tooth material in Africa and the Middle East and the stuff about the Pure Ones in the Americas section. But I was equally disappointed with the scant information on India and the Pacific. So its kind of a mixed bag. Take it for whatever you want, but it depends on how much use you expect to get out of this stuff.	2004-01-05
US	48854119	R14YTF9ZXH4T1Z	0136243622	367826812	North American Indians: A Comprehensive Account (2nd Edition)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Check This Out	Recently I took an class on Native American history which used this as the textbook. Its a decent book for getting an introduction to the Nations of North America though it doesn't always go into as much detail as it could, and it tends to only focus on major events. So its nice for getting a broad picture, but not for focusing in on the finer details. As with most books on the subject, things are arranged by &quot;culture groups&quot; or &quot;regions&quot; though the opening chapter is focused on the early history, archaeology, paleo-Indians and a history of anthropology in the Americas.<br />From there it goes on to the Nation-states of Mexico, the Greater Southwest, the Southeast, the Northeast, the Prarie-Plains, California and the Rockies, the Pacific Northwest and the Arctic/Subarctic. Each region opens with a timeline, showing major events and focuses in on history from the archaeic periods to the modern era with a look at specific Nations thrown in. These are peppered with photographs, illustrations, maps and accounts from Native peoples themselves or looks at specific topics like Sequoyah, the Ghost Dance or peace treaties. Obviously some of these chapters are a little pressed, such as the Southwest which focuses on the ancient Hohokam, Mogollan and Anasazi civilizations alongside the Pueblos, Yumans, Yaqui, Tohono O'odham and Athapaskans (Navajo and Apache); all greatly different from one another despite living in the same &quot;cultural area&quot;. Conversely, the chapter on the Southeast flowed more or less seemlessly through the archaeic period to the Mound Builder civilizations to the Five Civilized Nations and the Powhatan Confederacy of historic times. Closing out each chapter is a list of recommended further readings on the subject, going into further depth. I recognized some of the titles and must admit that the list is quite good.<br />After that it focuses in on the modern American Indian community in the United States and Canada, covering basically the whole 20th century. This is a really nice chapter, but the fact that its so small and has so much to cover  really kind of irked me. Yes, I do think it was important of them to stress the pan-Indian awareness that has arisen recently, and yes the First Nations face many similar situations everywhere from the Black Hills to Nunavat to the Navajo Nation, but still each part of this continent is different and there is so much diversity that its hard to really make any general blanket statements. Even about the last 100 years. It then closes out with a short chapter on anthropology and the American Indian. This is an interesting chapter, examining things such as the languages of North America, but again a bit too short. All in all though I would have to say this was an excellent introductary text and certainly worthwhile for understanding North Americn history. Just not the best thing for particular Nations.ally the whole 20th century. This is a really nice chapter, but the fact that its so small and has so much to cover  really kind of irked me. Yes, I do think it was important of them to stress the pan-Indian awareness that has arisen recently, and yes the First Nations face many similar situations everywhere from the Black Hills to Nunavat to the Navajo Nation, but still each part of this continent is different and there is so much diversity that its hard to really make any general blanket statements. Even about the last 100 years. It then closes out with a short chapter on anthropology and the American Indian. This is an interesting chapter, examining things such as the languages of North America, but again a bit too short. All in all though I would have to say this was an excellent introductary text and certainly worthwhile for understanding North Americn history. Just not the best thing for particular Nations.	2003-12-28
US	48854119	R31UDGMXEULSZ1	0872260429	116188157	African Mythology H/B (Library of the world's myths and legends)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Putting the Light on the &quot;Dark Continent&quot;	Part of the &quot;Library of the World's Myths and Legends&quot; series, this book was done by an author familar with both African culture and world mythology so it does a wonderful job exposing the oft-overlooked myths and legends of sub-Saharan Africa. I make a point of saying that because everything north of the Sahara (including Egypt) is excluded from this book. Instead, the focus is on the related themes running through indigenous traditions. Lavishly illustrated with masks, ceremonial objects, the ruins of Great Zimbabwe, wooden figures, amulets, Bushmen rock paintings and so forth, this is a wonderful little book to look at. The introduction does a good job of showing how diverse Africa is, both in terms of geography and in terms of ethnicity.<br />The first couple chapters are devoted to the Supreme Being (as indigenous African culture was monotheistic), including a widespread belief that some action of man caused this Supreme Being to withdraw from the world. The myths and legends of different groups are given, revealing both similarities and differences. From there it goes to examine myths of the creative ancestor figures and beliefs on the cycle of life, death and rebirth. Both are central to African beliefs, and are somewhat connected as people are believed to continue their involvement with the community after death as ancestor figures eventually to be reborn. These are very sophisticated ideas common throughout the coninent and again, numerous myths and legends are given. One particular myth that shows up here are the various myths about the origin of death.<br />The next couple chapters examine more social aspects of mythology in African life, taking a look at oracles, divinations, magic, witchcraft, monsters and secret societies. These are things which take an active role in community life (whether it was to help the community as oracles and secret societies did or to harm it as witches and other monsters did), and the book is full of depictions of ceremonial objects such as masks, divination tablets, diving rods, vessels for making offerings, bullroarers and so forth. Both magical practices and specific myths related to them are observed, giving the reader a clear idea of how the practices related to a mythical past and connected the practicioners to the creative ancestors. This is followed up by legends involving historical events including Osei Tutu and the golden stool, tales of old If&eacute; and Benin, Kikuyu myths of Mt. Kenya, the~ mystery of Great Zimbabwe and even stories about the first ecounters with Europeans, amongst other things.<br />The book closes out with numerous well known African animal tales, including numerous tales of Anansi the spider trickster of the Ashanti. He then mentions how aside from African influences travelling to the Americas and even Europe, other mythologies have influenced Africa; Islamic tales such as the 1,001 Nights in Muslim communities (especially in the north and the east), Indian tales like the Pancha-tantra and Jataka along the coast, Portuguese stories in Angola and Mozambique and even Grimm's Fairy Tales in some schools. He finishes by stating the importance of recording African myths to provide insight into the indigenous religious views of the African people, and ultimately I think that this book is a decent introduction to just that. Its certainly worth picking up, if only for a general review of African mythology and it's major themes. The nice thing about this is that it doesn't focus too much on one particular group or another. You can find tales from the Pygmies, Mbundu, Hausa, Swazi, Zulu, Chaga, Malagasy, Venda, Dogon, Songhai, Shona, Dahomey, Igbo and many others besides in this book. Sierra Leone is given as much attention as, say, the Congo or Kenya. So ultimately this is a wonderful little book if all you want are comparative myths and legends of sub-Saharan Africa.ceremonial objects such as masks, divination tablets, diving rods, vessels for making offerings, bullroarers and so forth. Both magical practices and specific myths related to them are observed, giving the reader a clear idea of how the practices related to a mythical past and connected the practicioners to the creative ancestors. This is followed up by legends involving historical events including Osei Tutu and the golden stool, tales of old If&eacute; and Benin, Kikuyu myths of Mt. Kenya, the~ mystery of Great Zimbabwe and even stories about the first ecounters with Europeans, amongst other things.<br />The book closes out with numerous well known African animal tales, including numerous tales of Anansi the spider trickster of the Ashanti. He then mentions how aside from African influences travelling to the Americas and even Europe, other mythologies have influenced Africa; Islamic tales such as the 1,001 Nights in Muslim communities (especially in the north and the east), Indian tales like the Pancha-tantra and Jataka along the coast, Portuguese stories in Angola and Mozambique and even Grimm's Fairy Tales in some schools. He finishes by stating the importance of recording African myths to provide insight into the indigenous religious views of the African people, and ultimately I think that this book is a decent introduction to just that. Its certainly worth picking up, if only for a general review of African mythology and it's major themes. The nice thing about this is that it doesn't focus too much on one particular group or another. You can find tales from the Pygmies, Mbundu, Hausa, Swazi, Zulu, Chaga, Malagasy, Venda, Dogon, Songhai, Shona, Dahomey, Igbo and many others besides in this book. Sierra Leone is given as much attention as, say, the Congo or Kenya. So ultimately this is a wonderful little book if all you want are comparative myths and legends of sub-Saharan Africa.	2003-12-28
US	48854119	RN8OPP06KC3A9	0600342832	245732374	Oceanic and Australasian Mythology (Library of the World's Myths & Legends)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tricksters, Kahunas and the Dreamtime	This is an excellent, if somewhat dated, book about the myths, legends and religions of the South Pacific. The introduction gives an overview of the various peoples and culture groups of Oceania, including the Australian aborigines (the indigenous people of Australia), the Melanesians (darker skinned people of New Guinea and other parts of the western Pacific), the Micronesians (the native people of the small islands in the north west Pacific just east of the Philippines) and the Polynesians (the fair skinned people native to most of Oceania, including New Zealand, Hawaii, Easter Island, Samoa and so forth). These distinctions aren't always accurate and aren't quite PC, but they do give a good idea of the general range that is covered, and allow the author to focus on common themes in specific areas. Theres also a wonderful map that shows the culture area and (in the case of New Guinea) goes into tribal territories.<br />From there, it goes on to focus on myths by area, starting off with the Polynesians. It gives a nice overview of the highly organized and structured society that the Polynesians lived in (until the coming of the Europeans that is), and the important social positions of the ali'i (chiefs), kahunas (shaman/priests), arioi (entertaines) and so forth held. Mixed in with the creation stories and tales of Gods and Heroes like Tu, Tane, Rongo, Tangaroa, Pele, Hina and Maui, we are given a wealth of illustrations and photos. There are excellent examples of hei-tikis, featherwork, the stone heads of Easter Island, Maori carvings and designs, and numerous other Polynesian crafts. Following this we go into a brief exploration of the Chamorro and other peoples of Micronesia. Here the main focus was on trickster heroes like Olifat, Motikitik and Nareau. Again, there are some great pictures, including wooden boats from New Ireland, navigation charts, boars tusks and stone disks from the Yap Islanders and such. More material is available in the next chapter, which covers the Melanesians. The introduction does a good job of pointing out just how diverse Melanesian society is. Various common themes, such as snakes, hero twins, culture heros and the fate of the souls after death (the Melanesians have a complex theology with multiple souls and both reincarnation and afterlifes) are explored. Some wonderful example of Melanesian art, including some pieces from the Sepik River region, are shown. And finally the book closes out with Aboriginal myths and talks about the sacred male-dominated rites of the Koori, the importance of the Dreamtime, totemism, initations, and numerous myths. I'm somewhat mixed about depicting sacred rites, sites and objects (that is somewhat demeaning), but the dot art is really wonderful.<br />Overall, this is a pretty good book and I would recommend it to you, but you should be aware a more recent revision was issued in the 80s, with some expanded material. Eiter one is nice enough, assuming that you can get your hands on it. Its a nice introduction to Huna, the Dreamtime and other aspects of Pacific Islander religion and mythology.overs the Melanesians. The introduction does a good job of pointing out just how diverse Melanesian society is. Various common themes, such as snakes, hero twins, culture heros and the fate of the souls after death (the Melanesians have a complex theology with multiple souls and both reincarnation and afterlifes) are explored. Some wonderful example of Melanesian art, including some pieces from the Sepik River region, are shown. And finally the book closes out with Aboriginal myths and talks about the sacred male-dominated rites of the Koori, the importance of the Dreamtime, totemism, initations, and numerous myths. I'm somewhat mixed about depicting sacred rites, sites and objects (that is somewhat demeaning), but the dot art is really wonderful.<BR>Overall, this is a pretty good book and I would recommend it to you, but you should be aware a more recent revision was issued in the 80s, with some expanded material. Eiter one is nice enough, assuming that you can get your hands on it. Its a nice introduction to Huna, the Dreamtime and other aspects of Pacific Islander religion and mythology.	2003-12-28
US	48854119	R3PCZ8P7MSX89X	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Anglo-Saxon Poetry at its Best!	I've been in love with the Beowulf epic since I was young and I must say that this translation is by far and away the best I have ever read. Perhaps one of the greatest texts in the English language, this poem should be required reading for anyone in the western tradition. In addition to providing matching old Anglo-Saxon text (for those who can speak Anglo-Saxon; I can't), Heany puts the text into a clear, flowing English without the turn of the century ornamentation so-often used in translations. While I must admit that I do miss the flowery word play of older translations, this is certainly a more accessable and perhaps more accurate translation of the epic. Interestingly enough, reading through it I saw parallels with many shamanic motifs used in indigenous cultures. Perhaps Beowulf represents a shamanic hero of the Geats? After all, there was lots of cultural exchange amongst the peoples of the north and the Saami (Lapps) had a thriving shamanic tradition until recently.<br />The introduction gives wonderful insight into the poem, its history and the proccess of translation, as well as providing plenty of notes alongside the text to help the reader get a clearer idea of the epic. In total, I must say that this is perhaps one of the best translations of this poem and I can do no better than to strongly suggest that anyone read this poem if they get a chance.	2003-12-27
US	48854119	R2Q93F581GD4MX	0195501470	370422426	Gods Ghosts and Men in Melanesia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Marvelous Survey of the Religions of Melanesia	If you can get your hands on this long out-of-print book on the religions of Melanesia, do so because it is certainly worth it. One of the earliest ethnographies of the region, this book focuses in on Australian New Guinea (now Papua New Guinea; kinda suggests how much has changed since this book came out) and the New Hebrides. The introduction explains much about this region, and also makes a point of calling it &quot;religion&quot; as opposed to &quot;mythology&quot;, &quot;legends&quot;, &quot;magic&quot; or whatever. I strongly am in favor of recognizing indigenous religions so I found that to be excellent. From there, each chapter focuses in on a particular tribe or group of tribes. Tribes covered include the Huli (southern highlands), Siane (northern highlands), Kamano, Usurufa, Jate and Fore (all eastern highlands), the Mae Enga and Kayaka (western highlands), the Lakalai of New Britain, the Ngaing (Rai coast), Tangu (of the northern Madang district) and the islanders of South Pentecost and the New Hebredies. Each chapter exploes their myths, history, religious beliefs, ceremonies, deities and magical practices in fairly good detail. Strong patterns can be seen emerging between coastal groups and highland groups. As the book points out, with Christianity's arrival in Melanesia many of these beliefs have changed. Some have since died out, others changed and adopted Christian elements and still others have been preserved in tact as an act of defense against the religion of their colonial oppressors. Even today, this change continues. Most interesting is the rebirth of Melanesian culture in some areas where it has been long gone. In summary though, this book is a wonderful historical glimpse at some of the many religions of the South Pacific.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	R24AZZAB6K4EFQ	0375702679	112906479	Northern Tales: Stories from the Native Peoples of the Arctic and Sub-Arctic Regions (Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tales of Shaman, Spirits and Animal People	Having covered Native American, Arabian, Scandinavian and African myths, legends and stories, Pantheon turned their attentions to the Arctic circle and produced this wonderful little gem. In this book, the tales of the Siberian Yukaghir and Chuckchi, Ainu (caucasian natives of Japan) and Native Americans of Alaska and Canada are covered. There are lots of stories from the Inuit, Aleut and other such Nations in particular. As with the other Pantheon books, the chapters are divided into major themes including Village Life, How Things Became the Way They Are, Culture Heroes/Tricksters, Shamanism, Animal People, Monsters and Spirit, Hunting Stroies and Marriages Between People and Spirits. The Culture Hero/Trickster section in particular is enjoyable as it covers the Smart Beaver Cycle of the Tagish, the Glooskap tales of the Micmac and the Wenebojo Cycle of the Chippewa, but all the stories are wonderful. Readers will become aware of the deep cultural heritage of the Native peoples of the far north as they go through the book, seeing the many major connections (like Big Dreaming, Shamanism and so forth) as well as cultural differences which made each Nation unique, with their own beliefs and customs as rich and varied as those of Europe. In addition, many of these stories, such as those of the Ainu, are so obscure that its not likely that you will find them elsewhere.<br />Two maps, one of the Arctic region of North America, and the other of the Sub-Arctic region of North America, round out the book. I found it to be an excellent book and one of the few of it's kind readily available. My only complaint would be that nothing of the Saami (Lapps) was presented, and there were only a few tales from Siberia. Still, those are but minor issues considering how wonderful this book is regardless. Those with an interest in Native American (or general indigenous) culture, Shamanism and just mythology and religion in general should certainly look at this book. Its out of print now, but its still worth looking for if you can find it., but its still worth looking for if you can find it.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	R3HGFGCAKJV4NF	087877193X	919682510	The Magic and Mysteries of Mexico: The Arcane Secrets and Occult Lore of the Ancient Mexicans and Maya	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Introduction to Mexican Occultism	This remarkable little book is chock full of information on the magic, mysticism and religion of the Aztecs and Mayans of classical Mesoamerica. Gathering together archaeology, anthropological surveys and accounts from the Spanish conquistadors, this wonderful little book takes the reader on a merry romp through the cultures of ancient Mexico and occaisonal looks at modern Indian beliefs today. Theres tons of information about gods and demons, magic and witchcraft, shamanism, nagualism, the Aztec and Mayan calendars, astrology, Aztec holy texts, the Popol Vuh and even the philosophies of the region. Spence makes a point throughout the book of drawing comparisons between American and European mythologies, making it even more accessable to readers who may be aware of Greek, Roman and European beliefs but have little familarity with the more exotic traditions of Central America. Of course, some of his assumptions (such as the idea that a European presence must have penetrated Mexico at some point) are completely false and reflect the cultural bigotry of the time. Nonetheless, looking beyond such things this is a wonderful book for the more obscure occult beliefs of the Aztecs and Maya. Or at least a start. I certainly felt that each chapter gave a decent amount of information on the subject and I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in the magic and religion of the Native Americans of Mexico.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	RFUXOJIX5UAGR	0879170336	166629972	Arcane Secrets and Occult Lore of Mexico and Mayan Central America: Treasury of Magic, Astrology, Witchcraft, Demonology and Symbolism	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Find!	This remarkable little book is chock full of information on the magic, mysticism and religion of the Aztecs and Mayans of classical Mesoamerica. Gathering together archaeology, anthropological surveys and accounts from the Spanish conquistadors, this wonderful little book takes the reader on a merry romp through the cultures of ancient Mexico and occaisonal looks at modern Indian beliefs today. Theres tons of information about gods and demons, magic and witchcraft, shamanism, nagualism, the Aztec and Mayan calendars, astrology, Aztec holy texts, the Popol Vuh and even the philosophies of the region. Spence makes a point throughout the book of drawing comparisons between American and European mythologies, making it even more accessable to readers who may be aware of Greek, Roman and European beliefs but have little familarity with the more exotic traditions of Central America. Of course, some of his assumptions (such as the idea that a European presence must have penetrated Mexico at some point) are completely false and reflect the cultural bigotry of the time. Nonetheless, looking beyond such things this is a wonderful book for the more obscure occult beliefs of the Aztecs and Maya. Or at least a start. I certainly felt that each chapter gave a decent amount of information on the subject and I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in the magic and religion of the Native Americans of Mexico.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	R1K3K654X36CGD	0394740181	120149392	American Indian Myths and Legends (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Fantastic Collection of Stories from the First Nations	Richard Erdoes and Alfonso Ortiz really did a wonderful job putting together this compilation. Taking various stories from North America, the duo covers traditional tales of everyone from the Aleut to the Toltecs and pretty much everything in between. Every region and culture group is represented, and tales from well known Nations such as the Cherokee, Lakota, Dine (Navajo), Apache and Iroquois appear beside those of less well known (but no less vibrant and culturally active) Nations such as the Miwok, Caddo, Metis and Shasta. Hopefully this will help expand people's views of Native American culture. After all, stereotypical views of \\"Indians\\" rarely include the Nations of California or the Pacific Northwest, or even the Southern Woodlands (the original homeland of the Cherokee and their neighbors). Obviously not every Nation could be represented, but this is still an excellent survey of the continent. It does a wonderful job showing how common cultural themes have woven their way across this entire continent, helping to reinforce the culture and customs of the First Nations. And at the same time, it also shows how each culture was different, having its own beliefs, customs and practices unique to themselves.<br />Each chapter was divided into a different theme, so the book covers the Creation of People, the Creation of the World, Stories about Celestial Bodies, Monsters, War Heroes, Love, Tricksters, Animal People, Ghosts and the End of the World. Hence the book goes full circle in exploring major themes in North American belief. Each chapter includes the stories of numerous Nations from different regions, linguistic families or \\"cultural groupings\\", allowing the reader to see them in a much broader light. All of the stories are short, and they range in mood from hilarious (Intome's description of his nightmare in \\"Inktome Has a Bad Dream\\") to being deeply moving (the sun's sacrifice in \\"The Scabby One Lights Up the Sky\\"). At the end of each story, the source is given and they come from quite a number of sources. Many are recorded in this book for the first time as far as I am aware, so it is certainly worth looking at even if you are very familar with Native American traditions.<br />To those familar with Native American culture, some things in this book should be familar, particularly the antics of Coyote, Inktome the spider, Raven and other tricksters, but also the tales of Glooskap, giants, floods, disembodied cannibal heads, the place of emergence, Hiawatha and so forth. One thing I should point out before going further is that some of these tales deal with adult themes (in the Inuit tale \\"Moon Rapes His Sister Sun\\" the moon commits the sins of rape and incest and forever chases his sister across the sky) and can be downright raunchy (as is the case with several of the Coyote and Inktome stories). There is nothing wrong with these stories, as they either are meant to teach a moral lesson (as is the case with the former) or because they are meant to amuse (in the case of the trickster stories). But it can come as something of a shock to those who are expecting \\"mere children's stories\\". Still, if you or someone you know has an interest in Native American culture, this book is certainly worth getting.ven and they come from quite a number of sources. Many are recorded in this book for the first time as far as I am aware, so it is certainly worth looking at even if you are very familar with Native American traditions.<br />To those familar with Native American culture, some things in this book should be familar, particularly the antics of Coyote, Inktome the spider, Raven and other tricksters, but also the tales of Glooskap, giants, floods, disembodied cannibal heads, the place of emergence, Hiawatha and so forth. One thing I should point out before going further is that some of these tales deal with adult themes (in the Inuit tale \\"Moon Rapes His Sister Sun\\" the moon commits the sins of rape and incest and forever chases his sister across the sky) and can be downright raunchy (as is the case with several of the Coyote and Inktome stories). There is nothing wrong with these stories, as they either are meant to teach a moral lesson (as is the case with the former) or because they are meant to amuse (in the case of the trickster stories). But it can come as something of a shock to those who are expecting \\"mere children's stories\\". Still, if you or someone you know has an interest in Native American culture, this book is certainly worth getting.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	R3VTATPCMD5QB6	082141304X	70576577	Quest For Fruition Through Ngoma: Political Aspects Of Healing In South Africa	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Healing and Shamanism in Southern Africa	This nice little book gives a brief look at some of the many facets of Ngoma, a shamanistic healing cult (or rather cults, as the phenomena consists of numerous seperate movements) popular throughout much of southern Africa. More specifically, it looks at some of the political aspects of Ngoma. The concepts, beliefs and rituals of Ngoma are part of the greater whole of African culture, and the introduction does a good job giving a brief introduction to Ngoma, it's history and study of it by westerners. It then goes on to the different sections, covering Ngoma &amp; gender in Zambia, the Mhondoro cult of Zimbabwe as social commentary, Ngoma in the Mdzimu Zionist churches of Zambia, Sangoma as shaman in Swaziland, ritualized scapegoating and the clash between Ngoma and born-again fundamentalist Christianity in Malawi. Throughout the book, the reader becomes aware of how deep and complex Ngoma is, consisting of ritual, healing, spirit possession and, most importantly, as a common link between the community. It is as much religion as it is a way of life, taking many forms throughout southern Africa, and has many parallels with Voudon, Santeria, Palo Mayombe, Candomble and other African religions transported to the Americas. This is pretty deep, involved reading aimed predominantly at anthropologists and other educated people, though certainly anyone should be able to read this and come away with a deeper understanding and respect for the healing shamanistic traditions of southern Africa.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	R21OWKG0OQFKJ	0914875191	249399873	James Mooney's History, Myths, and Sacred Formulas of the Cherokees	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Religion, Culture and Magic of the Ani'Yun'Wiyia	This incredible volume collects together the works of the early anthropologist James Mooney who did work amongst the Eastern Cherokee Nation (those who remained in Appalachia) at the turn of the century. The introduction is done by a biographer of Mooney's and gives a nice overview of both Mooney and the Cherokee Nation, as well as notes on Mooney's sources. It then goes straight into the first book &quot;Myths of the Cherokee&quot;, which starts with a history of the Cherokee Nation. It goes from the earliest days, through de Soto, the Indian wars, Tecumseh, the Trail of Tears, the Civil War and ultimately up to about 1900. It then goes on to explore Cherokee mythology and storytellers. This book is truely monumental in its scope and covers origin myths, animal stories, Kanati and Selu, the Nunnehi and Yunwi'Tsundi (little people), Tlanuwa (thunderbirds), Uktena (horned water snake), interactions with other Nations and numerous other myths, as well as local legends from various parts of the Southeast (North Carolina, Tenesse, Georgia, etc). There is also a section of herbal lore as well. Mooney closes it out with a glossary of Cherokee terms (in the Latin alphabet rather than the Sequoya Syllabery) and abundant notes.<br />We then go to the next book, Sacred Formulaes of the Cherokee, which covers a number of magical texts amongst the Cherokee Nation. This book does a wonderful job talking about such manuals, mentioning how they were obtaine, going into depth about the Cherokee worldview and beliefs on magic, concepts of disease, healing ceremonies, practices such as bleeding, rubbing and bathing, Shamanism, the use of wording, explanations of the formulae and so forth. It then goes on to give an amazingly varied collection of Cherokee formulae, first in the original Cherokee (again, in the Latin alphabet) and then translated into English. Everything from healing to killing witches to medicine for stick ball games and war. Both books include numerous photographs and illustrations of famous historical figures, Cherokee manuscripts and petroglyphs and a map of Cherokee lands. Again, this is a truely massive book and even today is considered one of the essential writings of Cherokee religion. Anyone with an interest in the subject, whether anthropologist, descendant of the Cherokee or just curious person interested in Native culture, should definately give this book a read. I highly recommend it.d illustrations of famous historical figures, Cherokee manuscripts and petroglyphs and a map of Cherokee lands. Again, this is a truely massive book and even today is considered one of the essential writings of Cherokee religion. Anyone with an interest in the subject, whether anthropologist, descendant of the Cherokee or just curious person interested in Native culture, should definately give this book a read. I highly recommend it.	2003-12-25
US	48854119	RR86VFEP3I0OQ	0835606171	583456530	Shamanism (Quest Book)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Very Nice Overall Read	I'm not quite sure how to categorize this book. Its really a nice little collection of brief essays concerning Shamanism in some way shape or form. I believe no few of which appeared in Shaman's Drum (a wonderful magazine in and of itself). There are alot of names you'd expect to see in such a book: Mihaly Hoppal, Joan Halifax, Mircea Eliade, Michael Harner, Serge King, etc. Overall thats a pretty broad scope there, from New Age neo-shamanism to social scientists, so you get a variety of perspectives.<br />Each article contributes something else to the overall books. There are articles about shamanism and madness, the ecstatic state, ESP and other paranormal phenomena as relating to shamanism, dreams, the question of whether shamanism is archaeic or modern, Native American prayer pipes, shamanism and Theosophy, the role of shaman as adventurer (filled with info on traditional African and Hawai'ian culture) and so forth. Other articles focus in on specific traditions, so that we get articles on the Tamang Shaman of Nepal, Australian aboriginal medicine men, and perhaps most unusual of all an article by Rabbi Yonassan Gersham on Jewish Shamanism, interperting Prophets from Ezekiel to the Baal Shem Tov (founder of the Hasidic movement) as shaman. There are also a couple articles on famous healers such as Rolling Thunder and Wallace Black Elk (who is actually more New Age pseudo-Shaman than anything else).<br />Overall, this is a very nice book to read, especially if you are interested in history, religion, archaeology, anthropology or so forth. The articles are all relatively short and easy reads, and many of them present some very unique perspectives. Overall worth getting.	2003-11-24
US	48854119	R2YQW05IUHPCGD	0893011274	131664769	Witchcraft and Sorcery of the American Native Peoples	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Excellent Pan-American Study	Too often people tend to forget that the Native Americans were once everywhere between Alaska and Tierra del Fuego, and that even after conquest many Native peoples still held their traditional lands. This anthropological survey, however, does a wonderful job covering most of the Americas. As the title implies, this book is a study of witchcraft and sorcery of the Native Americans. Not of religion or shamanism, but of socially taboo magical practices (though, it should be noted, there is some relationship between beliefs of witchcraft and traditional religions). Better still, this book looks at beliefs of witchcraft in both traditional religion and in post-contact religion. Again, people tend to forget that Native American culture is still alive and well, changing as time goes on just like any other culture.<br />Over all, the book covers 15 different Nations, giving a wider view at the beliefs of magic across aboriginal society in general. Each Nation more or less represents a specific &quot;culture group&quot;. After the introduction, which explains the book pretty well, we get a brief look at the Inuit of the Arctic and their beliefs in soul loss, violations of hunting tabboos and the tupilak (a sort of familar type creature that witches used to kill). Then he goes into witch-killings amongst the Subarctic Kaska, power gaining and sorcery amongst the Menomini of the Great Lakes (covering Traditional, Peyoteist and Catholic views), relationships between shamanism and witchcraft in the Skokomish of the Northwest Coast and Traditional and Pentecostal responses to withcraft to the Nez Perce of the Plateau.<br />All of these chapters go in depth in looking into Native cosmology and views on witchcraft, often providing charts and Native words as well as accounts of witchcraft gathered from Native informants. He continues on to look at charms and witchcraft complexes amongst the Six Nations of the Iroquois (representing the Eastern Woodlands). Then he goes on to the Southwest, which is divided into two chapters to provide a contrast between the Athapaskans (in this case the Apaches) and the Pueblos. The latter is particularly interesting, mentioning the punishments for witchcraft as well. Going into Latin America, we are presented with a look at the Tecospa and Tepepan, which provides us with pre-Columbian Aztec views on witches and evil, and later Catholicized views both amongst the Mexican Indians and the mestizos. Related to this are two other sections, covering the Quiche Maya (modern day) and colonial-era Andean cultures, which provide further insight into the ancient Native American empires of the Maya, Inka, Moche and so forth.<br />He also devotes a chapter to the Mapuche Indians of Chile and how their society reacts to sorcery. Rounding out the book are several other surveys, including the Akawaio Indians of Guyana, the black Caribs of Belize and the Obeah beliefs of Roatan and the Caribbean (these often include Indian as well as African and European influences). Overall a good survey, if a bit in leaning towards North America. It would have been nice to see him cover the greater whole of Amazonia and interior Brazil (there are many Native American tribes left in that region), if not the extinct Yaghan and Ona of Tierra del Fuego. Still, it is a wonderful overall survey of Native American views on witchcraft.<br />The only real commentary I can add to this brief overview is that it is an anthropological text book. Unfamilar readers may find some of the accounts uninteresting, and be unfamilar with some of the concepts and terminology (technical spelling of Native words is given, for example, to help with pronounciation but without a chart). Also, witchcraft in this book means witchcraft, malicious magical beliefs and practices. This isn't an idealized or romanticized look at &quot;pagan religion&quot; or some such so don't get offended if you believe your a witch. However, if you are familar with social sciences, you should appreciate this book immensely.ciate this book immensely.	2003-11-20
US	48854119	R2RTJECR62VEFN	1559614560	772200718	Shaman, Jhankri & Nele: Music Healers of Indigenous Cultures	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful Global Survey of Shamanism	This book does a wonderful job looking at the global tradition of Shamanism and its healing methods. After the introduction, it gives several brief profiles of 18 traditional Shaman from around the globe and their cultures. The range varies from traditional Tuvan shamanism to Voudon, the Native American Church, Ayahuasceros, a Tibetan Oracle and Hindu village healers and to more obscure practices such as Spiritual Baptists (aka &quot;Shouters&quot;), Nepalese Jhankri and a Kangsinmu (spirit possessed Korean shaman). Naturally, several Native American Nations are presented, including the Tarahumara and Huichol of northern Mexico, the Maya (Mesoamerica), Anishnabe (North America) and Kuna (Panama). And best of all, this book comes with a CD presenting excerpts from shamanic healings recorded in the field. This is a wonderful anthropologic introduction into just how truly global the traditions of shamanism truly are. Its only sad that the book couldn't go into more depth on each individual and their culture, or expand to look at other cultures (Hawai'ian Huna, Cuban Santeria, Mexican Curaderismo, Bedouin Sheikha, Jamaican Obeah, Chinese and Malay folk shaman, Siberian or Lappish shamanism or the medicine rites of the Australian Aborigines, Africans or Amazon Indians, for example).	2003-11-20
US	48854119	RK3GJDAF7MZ5X	1565112121	343356236	Joseph Campbell Coll Ection: Volume 3: The Eastern Way (Joseph Campbell Audio Collection)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Wonderful Overview of Asian Beliefs	This collection of readings by Joseph Campbell give a wonderful overview of the mythical traditions of the \\"east\\" (as opposed to those of the occidental \\"west). By Campbell's definition, the line (which is pretty blurry) is drawn around the Indus. Hence, this collection focuses on the Indian traditions of Hinduism and Buddhism, as well as the creative traditions of the far east. In the first tape \\"Oriental Mythology\\", he explores this, showing a tradition where man himself is the great mystery, where there is no tradition of the \\"originl sin\\" or of an exile from the divine. These traditions are very different from those of the west (Judaism, Christianity and Islam), so it is very nice that Campbell starts off by explaining the framework for Asian society. Following this is an exploration of the \\"Mystic Traditions of India\\", wherein Campbell explores yoga, the caste system and the concept of nirvana, setting a framework for explorations of both Hinduism and Buddhism (both of which grew out of indigenous Indian traditions). The next tapes explore Hinduism and Buddhism respectively. Although I would say that Hinduism is such a broad, contradictory reigion (or rather collection of several different religions all under a common umbrela) that a single tape is a risky adventure at best, this is still a wonderful tape anyway. Especially with the exploration of yogis and left-handed mysticism. The exploration of Buddhism is also wonderful, including a description of the Buddhas life. Listening to these two tapes, it becomes very appearent that Campbell had a deep respect and interest in Hindu and Buddhist beliefs. His final tape wraps everything up with a wonderful exploration of how ideas and beliefs have bled over into Asian culture and lifestyles. He focuses on belief systems as diverse as Taoism, Zen and Hinduism. Ultimately he sums up the mystical experience within Oriental beliefs in general. This is a wonderful collection of tapes and a superb item for anyone interested in mythology, religion or philosophy.ed in mythology, religion or philosophy.	2003-06-16
US	48854119	R3M2X85CHEKM3E	0679451919	69514804	A Middle East Mosaic: Fragments of Life, Letters, and History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Delightful Anthology	I would like to start out by saying that I am a huge fan of Bernard Lewis. All of his books I have gotten my hands on thus far have been superb and this is no exception. In this case, Lewis opted to collect various writings and excerpts showing the interplay between the Middle East and the \\"west\\". After starting out with misconceptions and prejudices (on both sides), he goes on to show differing views on travel, government, society, arts, science and even food and drink. Interestingly enough, relatively little focused on the early period, despite the immense glory of Egypt, Persia, Mesopotamia and other Middle Eastern nations. There is a great deal of historical material though, including the early Islamic era, the Byzantine Empire and even the Roman Empire. Much of the material focused on the last few centuries though, which I suppose is natural given the increased contact between Europe and the Middle East. The sources come from a truely vast array. There are excerpts from the Qu'ran and the Bible, as well as sayings attributed to the Prophet Mohammad. These stand beside the works of Shakespeare, commentary by T.E. Lawerence (\\"Lawerence of Arabia\\") and Sir Richard Francis Burton, and messages delivered by Imam Khomeini. However, not all historical figures would be so well known to western ears. Excerpts from the great traveller ibn Battuta and the historian/philosopher ibn Khaldun also appear here. The vast amount of events and places is astounding. It records the Ottoman Empire at its height (indeed, many of the excerpts do deal with the Ottoman Turks), Napolean's entering north Africa, the Crimean War and the Crusades. Indeed, theres a small selection of passages dealing with the Assassin sect, of which Lewis has written an entire book. In addition, theres even a few pages which give some examples of words of Arabic, Turkish and Persian origin which have made their way into the English language.<br />The sheer volume of material contained within this book is simply amazing. Although they don't give as much information as one might like, the passages, excerpts and quotes included in this book provide windows into Middle Eastern life and history. Ultimately, I must strongly recommend that any student of Middle Eastern or Islamic history at least give this book a look. You won't regret it.y amazing. Although they don't give as much information as one might like, the passages, excerpts and quotes included in this book provide windows into Middle Eastern life and history. Ultimately, I must strongly recommend that any student of Middle Eastern or Islamic history at least give this book a look. You won't regret it.	2003-06-16
US	48854119	R1OLHWKB8O8RZO	1888358203	429030074	Planet Drum: A Celebration of Percussion and Rhythm	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Primal Sound....	Mickey Hart goes into a global exploration of percusion instruments in this particular book. The interplay between sound and mysticism is explored, with lavish photographs and numerous quotations to boot. Although this book isn't much on words, theres a lot of good stuff in here. Breaking it down into various regions, Hart shows some wonderful examples of musical instruments used in Africa, Oceania, Asia, the Middle East, Europe and the Americas. Aside from more familar instruments (bullroarers, clap sticks and various drums), he also gives examples of exotic instruments like the shekere, mbira, shawm, skull drums and gamelan orchestras. In addition, he explores numerous non-western cultures, such as the Rashaida, Ethiopians, Tutsis, Nepalis and Ojibwa. Aside from this are little side-bars on various related subjects such as Shamanism, Capoeira, Carnival, drums and warfare and the &quot;dance of the dead&quot;. Theres even a whole list of names various cultures around the world have for the bullroarer, which is considered sacred in cultures as far away as the Australian aborigines and the Apache of North America. And, of course, it explores the process of sound, from the big bang to the end of time itself, complete with a lot of cultural notes and tidbits that are great to know. For instance, did you know tht Ethiopian soldiers used to be accompanied by trumpters and drummers who symbolized the drummers who will herald the Apocalypse? Or that in some parts of the world drums really were used to communicate? Or that early Christians were summoned to church with a &quot;sound board&quot; instead of a bell? All of these small little notes, and many other historical facts and curiousities are contained within this book. And, finally, there are also a handful of illustrated myths and legends retold in the book. These include a Sioux legend of the origin of the powow drum and a Koori story about how the bull-roarer came to earth, as well as a grisly tale of what the Inca did to captured foes (made them into drums) and a Siberian tale of creation.<br />This is really an amazing book. Those with an interest in anthropology, music or shamanism should take a brief look at this book. Heck, everyone should. It may not be a lot of reading, but it is wonderful to flip through and learn about the history of sound, mysticism and the pulse of the world itself. Just buy it and you'll see what I mean.did to captured foes (made them into drums) and a Siberian tale of creation.<br />This is really an amazing book. Those with an interest in anthropology, music or shamanism should take a brief look at this book. Heck, everyone should. It may not be a lot of reading, but it is wonderful to flip through and learn about the history of sound, mysticism and the pulse of the world itself. Just buy it and you'll see what I mean.	2003-06-16
US	48854119	R1MOHYRFZ0OAUY	1565042077	462947975	A World of Darkness: A Sourcebook for Vampire: The Masquerade	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Much Mystery in the World	This is a pretty decent book if you want to run a non-western Vampire game. Most other gamelines like Mage, Werewolf and Changeling only get brief mentions (if that), and some like Hunter and Mummy came out WAY later than this book so aren't even covered at all. But still, the setting information in this book is pretty decent. I skipped over the first part of the book, North America, and went into the Latin America part. Some pretty good stuff, talking about the Lasomba powerbase, Setite influence in voudon and candomble, Brujah revolutionaries, Gangrel in the Amazon, Ananasi werespiders, Mayan and Incan Dreamspeakers and so forth. All Clans, bloodlines and the like get covered (which pretty much lays out the framework for the next chapters). Then we get the British Isles and Europe. For the most part, we get a lay out of which Clans have influence where. For instance, the Lasombra in Spain and Italy, Tzimisce in Eastern Europe, Toreador in France, Malkavians in the Low Countries, Tremere and Ventrue in Britain, Assamites in Turkey, etc. A little of each country is given with some info on the power structures. Then we got to the stuff I really liked. The chapters on Africa, Arabia and Egypt. The Arabia section gives a real quick overveiw of the Ashirra in the modern nights, not much new (and unfortunately only a little Assamite material), but the Egypt section is great. Lots of Egyptian history, stuff on the Vampire power structures of Cairo and Alexandria. And of course the battles between the Setites, Assamites and Camarilla. Then the Africa section, which was really nice. Its pre-Ebony Kingdom, but gives write ups of each Clan in the region. Again, stereotypical stuff like Assamite assassins, Moorish Lasombra, bestial Nosferatu and Gangrel, Setites everywhere, Malkavian dervishes, etc. Some stuff on the Dreamspeakers, Mokole, Ananasi and Garou too, but not much. Then some (real) brief teasers of Asia, and the western vampires, and finally some stuff on Australia (which was regrettably shorter than I'd have liked).<br />Overall, its a good, cheap book for running non-western games, but its pretty broad and stereotypical so you could just as easily come up with stuff on your own by reading about the region's politics and history. Plus, new books like Kindred of the East, Kindred of the Ebony Kingdoms, Blood Sacrifice and Veil of Night (plus the new Assamite and Setite clanbooks) have really fleshed out much of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, so this book is sort of dated. Still, its a pretty decent book for the facts contained in it, if nothing else.(which was regrettably shorter than I'd have liked).<BR>Overall, its a good, cheap book for running non-western games, but its pretty broad and stereotypical so you could just as easily come up with stuff on your own by reading about the region's politics and history. Plus, new books like Kindred of the East, Kindred of the Ebony Kingdoms, Blood Sacrifice and Veil of Night (plus the new Assamite and Setite clanbooks) have really fleshed out much of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, so this book is sort of dated. Still, its a pretty decent book for the facts contained in it, if nothing else.	2003-06-13
US	48854119	R3FKER8T98MXRU	1565042077	462947975	A World of Darkness: A Sourcebook for Vampire: The Masquerade	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Much Mystery in the World	This is a pretty decent book if you want to run a non-western Vampire game. Most other gamelines like Mage, Werewolf and Changeling only get brief mentions (if that), and some like Hunter and Mummy came out WAY later than this book so aren't even covered at all. But still, the setting information in this book is pretty decent. I skipped over the first part of the book, North America, and went into the Latin America part. Some pretty good stuff, talking about the Lasomba powerbase, Setite influence in voudon and candomble, Brujah revolutionaries, Gangrel in the Amazon, Ananasi werespiders, Mayan and Incan Dreamspeakers and so forth. All Clans, bloodlines and the like get covered (which pretty much lays out the framework for the next chapters). Then we get the British Isles and Europe. For the most part, we get a lay out of which Clans have influence where. For instance, the Lasombra in Spain and Italy, Tzimisce in Eastern Europe, Toreador in France, Malkavians in the Low Countries, Tremere and Ventrue in Britain, Assamites in Turkey, etc. A little of each country is given with some info on the power structures. Then we got to the stuff I really liked. The chapters on Africa, Arabia and Egypt. The Arabia section gives a real quick overveiw of the Ashirra in the modern nights, not much new (and unfortunately only a little Assamite material), but the Egypt section is great. Lots of Egyptian history, stuff on the Vampire power structures of Cairo and Alexandria. And of course the battles between the Setites, Assamites and Camarilla. Then the Africa section, which was really nice. Its pre-Ebony Kingdom, but gives write ups of each Clan in the region. Again, stereotypical stuff like Assamite assassins, Moorish Lasombra, bestial Nosferatu and Gangrel, Setites everywhere, Malkavian dervishes, etc. Some stuff on the Dreamspeakers, Mokole, Ananasi and Garou too, but not much. Then some (real) brief teasers of Asia, and the western vampires, and finally some stuff on Australia(which was regrettably shorter than I'd have liked).<BR>Overall, its a good, cheap book for running non-western games, but its pretty broad and stereotypical so you could just as easily come up with stuff on your own by reading about the region's politics and history. Plus, new books like Kindred of the East, Kindred of the Ebony Kingdoms, Blood Sacrifice and Veil of Night (plus the new Assamite and Setite clanbooks) have really fleshed out much of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America, so this book is sort of dated. Still, its a pretty decent book for the facts contained in it, if nothing else.	2003-06-13
US	48854119	RNV5QARTQDIT2	0872269248	540180156	Fabled Cities, Princes & Jinn from Arab Myths and Legends (World Mythology)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Legends of the Ancient Arabs	I searched high and low before I managed to get my hands on this book, and I admit that I am very happy that I did. As the name should imply, the focus of this book is on Arabic myths and legends. Most of these stories are common to the Arab people, beyond religious or geographic barriers, but many have spread across the world thanks to the spread of Arabic culture. Hence, some influences of these stories pop up in Africa, southern Europe, Russia, India, Persia, Turkey and elsewhere. One of the most interesting aspects here is that the book shows a focus on the pre-Islamic myths from the Jahiliyyah (time before the coming of the Prophet Mohammad), as well as more familar Bedouin folk tales and stories from the 1001 Nights.<br />After starting out with an introduction to Arabic culture and history (which has a nice map of the Arab world), we are given an overview of the pagan Arab religion. Names, symbols and roles of important deities such as Hubal, al-Ussa, Manat and such are presented, along with sacred sites, wells, rocks, animals and stars. Views on the afterlife are provided, as well as a history of Mecca (a holy site long before Islam) and an overview of how idolatry reached Arabia. This chapter alone is worth the read simply for the amount of insight into pre-Islamic Arab beliefs. After this we are given stories about the five mythical extinct tribes of ancient Arabia (the peoples of Thmud, Tasm, Jadis, 'Ad and the Jurhumites) including the story of Iram of the Pillars. Next we go on to learn of various myths, legends and stories from North Arabia and South Arabia (the two Arab culture groups of ancient Arabia). These include some well known ones like stories about Suleiman, the tale of the Year of the Elephant and the ancient cities of Yemen. There are chapters about great seers, priests and shaman (including some simple proverbs and sayings) and stories of valor and honor. Another chapter goes into detail about the cosmologies of the ancient Arabs (some of which survived into the Islamic era and actually influenced/inspired Arab scientists), and conveniently enough, a chapter about the Angels and Djinn. Both, of course, are common to Middle Eastern myths and beliefs beyond the Arabs, appearing in Persian, Turkish, Jewish, Armenian, Greek, Berber and even Indian and African legends. Closing out the book are some stories from the 1001 Nights, including the story of the City of Brass. Finally, theres a nice little section on the symbols of the Arabs. The sources listed in the back were also interesting, including many Arabic sources.<br />I cannot say strongly enough how much I loved this book. Even aside from the wonderful Bedouin stories, Islamic parables and folk-tales and re-tellings of tales from the 1001 Nights (itself not entirely Arab btw; its origins lie to the east amongst the Iranians, Turks, Indians or even Chinese originally), there was a veritable treasure trove of pre-Islamic Arabic lore in this book. Considering that so little of the pagan Arab religion survived the comings of Christianity and Islam, and the dearth of information (and interest) in ancient Arab beliefs in the west, this is a wonderful and essential book for anyone with an interest in the stories and culture of ancient Arabia. If you can find this book, get it.ich survived into the Islamic era and actually influenced/inspired Arab scientists), and conveniently enough, a chapter about the Angels and Djinn. Both, of course, are common to Middle Eastern myths and beliefs beyond the Arabs, appearing in Persian, Turkish, Jewish, Armenian, Greek, Berber and even Indian and African legends. Closing out the book are some stories from the 1001 Nights, including the story of the City of Brass. Finally, theres a nice little section on the symbols of the Arabs. The sources listed in the back were also interesting, including many Arabic sources.<BR>I cannot say strongly enough how much I loved this book. Even aside from the wonderful Bedouin stories, Islamic parables and folk-tales and re-tellings of tales from the 1001 Nights (itself not entirely Arab btw; its origins lie to the east amongst the Iranians, Turks, Indians or even Chinese originally), there was a veritable treasure trove of pre-Islamic Arabic lore in this book. Considering that so little of the pagan Arab religion survived the comings of Christianity and Islam, and the dearth of information (and interest) in ancient Arab beliefs in the west, this is a wonderful and essential book for anyone with an interest in the stories and culture of ancient Arabia. If you can find this book, get it.	2003-06-12
US	48854119	R345HPCWCP8NTD	0814803865	378018622	Oceanic Mythology: The Myths of Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia, Australia.	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Huna, Culture Heros and the Eternal Dreamtime	This is an excellent, if somewhat dated, book about the myths, legends and religions of the South Pacific. The introduction gives an overview of the various peoples and culture groups of Oceania, including the Australian aborigines (the indigenous people of Australia), the Melanesians (darker skinned people of New Guinea and other parts of the western Pacific), the Micronesians (the native people of the small islands in the north west Pacific just east of the Philippines) and the Polynesians (the fair skinned people native to most of Oceania, including New Zealand, Hawaii, Easter Island, Samoa and so forth). These distinctions aren't always accurate and aren't quite PC, but they do give a good idea of the general range that is covered, and allow the author to focus on common themes in specific areas. Theres also a wonderful map that shows the culture area and (in the case of New Guinea) goes into tribal territories.<br />From there, it goes on to focus on myths by area, starting off with the Polynesians. It gives a nice overview of the highly organized and structured society that the Polynesians lived in (until the coming of the Europeans that is), and the important social positions of the ali'i (chiefs), kahunas (shaman/priests), arioi (entertaines) and so forth held. Mixed in with the creation stories and tales of Gods and Heroes like Tu, Tane, Rongo, Tangaroa, Pele, Hina and Maui, we are given a wealth of illustrations and photos. There are excellent examples of hei-tikis, featherwork, the stone heads of Easter Island, Maori carvings and designs, and numerous other Polynesian crafts. Following this we go into a brief exploration of the Chamorro and other peoples of Micronesia. Here the main focus was on trickster heroes like Olifat, Motikitik and Nareau. Again, there are some great pictures, including wooden boats from New Ireland, navigation charts, boars tusks and stone disks from the Yap Islanders and such. More material is available in the next chapter, which covers the Melanesians. The introduction does a good job of pointing out just how diverse Melanesian society is. Various common themes, such as snakes, hero twins, culture heros and the fate of the souls after death (the Melanesians have a complex theology with multiple souls and both reincarnation and afterlifes) are explored. Some wonderful example of Melanesian art, including some pieces from the Sepik River region, are shown. And finally the book closes out with Aboriginal myths and talks about the sacred male-dominated rites of the Koori, the importance of the Dreamtime, totemism, initations, and numerous myths. I'm somewhat mixed about depicting sacred rites, sites and objects (that is somewhat demeaning), but the dot art is really wonderful.<br />Overall, this is a pretty good book and I would recommend it to you, but you should be aware a more recent revision was issued in the 80s, with some expanded material. Eiter one is nice enough, assuming that you can get your hands on it. Its a nice introduction to Huna, the Dreamtime and other aspects of Pacific Islander religion and mythology.overs the Melanesians. The introduction does a good job of pointing out just how diverse Melanesian society is. Various common themes, such as snakes, hero twins, culture heros and the fate of the souls after death (the Melanesians have a complex theology with multiple souls and both reincarnation and afterlifes) are explored. Some wonderful example of Melanesian art, including some pieces from the Sepik River region, are shown. And finally the book closes out with Aboriginal myths and talks about the sacred male-dominated rites of the Koori, the importance of the Dreamtime, totemism, initations, and numerous myths. I'm somewhat mixed about depicting sacred rites, sites and objects (that is somewhat demeaning), but the dot art is really wonderful.<BR>Overall, this is a pretty good book and I would recommend it to you, but you should be aware a more recent revision was issued in the 80s, with some expanded material. Eiter one is nice enough, assuming that you can get your hands on it. Its a nice introduction to Huna, the Dreamtime and other aspects of Pacific Islander religion and mythology.	2003-06-12
US	48854119	R339GVAZKMPY2C	0140194436	663483379	Primitive Mythology (The Masks of God)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The Genesis of Mythology	In this wonderful book, the first volume of Campbell's monumental Masks of God series, we are given a look at the earliest myths and beliefs of man, from the cave dwellers to surviving indigenous tribes of today, and how these myths changed and developed over time, influencing later myths. While I might disagree somewhat with the title (since \\"primitive\\" is a fairly relative term anyway), I cannot deny that this is a superb and well-researched book and is amongst the greatest of Joseph Campbell's work. Early on, the work goes into the development of animistic world views, followed by some information on the religion of the Neolithic agriculture socieites. From this, we are given insight into both the \\"sacred kings\\" and the ritual of love-death, both central to agriculture people to this very day. The beliefs of the Polynesians, Native Americans, peoples of the ancient Near East and many other societies were given to show the relationships of these myths. Following this was another section on hunting societies, which explained the role of the shaman in great detail. Again, this ties directly to modern day cultures and peoples, as many cultures both in Siberia and further afield still rely upon Shamanism. From that, we go on to animal masters (a central concept in shamanism), the buffalo dance, bear worship (this can still be seen today amongst the Ainu, Siberians and other Arctic people) and cave paintings. The next section of the book \\"The Archaeology of Myth\\" was also particularly interesting, showing various stages of both Paleolithic and Neolithic mythology. Ultimately Campbell closed out the book talking about the functioning of myth and such. Over all, this is a wonderful book and I simply cannot repeat that enough. It shows the development of myth and religion in our earliest ancestors and ultimately how universal the legacy that they left us is. The beliefs of ancient people, both agriculturalists and hunter-gatherers, are still with us today. Shamanism, bear worship, animism, the great serpent, death-rebirth myths. All of these things are universal phenomena, showing up amongst cultures as far afield as the Saami, Arunta, Kikuyu, Karen, Cree and Yanomami. Just think about how the serpent shows up in mythology, from the rainbow serpent of the Koori to Damballah in Voudon to the Aztec's Quetzalcoatl. Or about how the Saami and Ainu have similar bear worship ceremonies. This book shows the common origins of mythology, and I strongly recommend it. I found the chapters of shamanism and the early hunter-gatherers to be particularly interesting, but the whole book is just a great read. And Joseph Campbell is (or rather was) a superb writer, as well as being an expert on comparative mythology, so this book is enjoyable to flip through. If you have an interest in mythology, religion, anthropology, history and/or archaeology, this book is a must. In fact, if you enjoy this book I recommend the remaining books in the \\"Masks of God\\" series.worship, animism, the great serpent, death-rebirth myths. All of these things are universal phenomena, showing up amongst cultures as far afield as the Saami, Arunta, Kikuyu, Karen, Cree and Yanomami. Just think about how the serpent shows up in mythology, from the rainbow serpent of the Koori to Damballah in Voudon to the Aztec's Quetzalcoatl. Or about how the Saami and Ainu have similar bear worship ceremonies. This book shows the common origins of mythology, and I strongly recommend it. I found the chapters of shamanism and the early hunter-gatherers to be particularly interesting, but the whole book is just a great read. And Joseph Campbell is (or rather was) a superb writer, as well as being an expert on comparative mythology, so this book is enjoyable to flip through. If you have an interest in mythology, religion, anthropology, history and/or archaeology, this book is a must. In fact, if you enjoy this book I recommend the remaining books in the \\"Masks of God\\" series.	2003-06-11
US	48854119	R12K18TVDSLJGL	0198740298	310710003	Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande	Books	5	4	5	N	N	African Witchcraft	Although somewhat dated (being written around the turn of the century), this book is an excellent cultural survey of Zande magico-religious beliefs. The author spent time amongst the Azande of the Sudan and was one of the first westerners to study about the belief in witchcraft and sorcery. I would like to point out that in the terms of this book, witch is used to define malicious (or at least selfish) sorcerers. No offense to Wiccans or other New Agers, but traditional African religion does regard witchcraft as something that is evil, or at least negative. Aside from the material about witches, there is also a wealth of information about oracles and how the Azande detect the witches within their societ. This is a study of the religious beliefs of the Azande, and I strongly recommend that anyone with an interest in African cultural or religion to take a look at this book. Please do note that it is somewhat dated, and contains somewhat paternalistic views towards African society. And furthermore, Zande culture (which is alive and well in the Sudan) has changed somewhat over the years. Nonetheless, I strongly recommend this book	2003-06-01
US	48854119	RD1IT2YU9O80B	0938818910	943461645	1A: A History of Ethiopia: Nubia and Abyssinia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In the Shadow of Egypt	Famed Egyptologist Sir E.A. Wallis Budge, known for his translations of the Papyrus of Ani and other Egyptian works, also turned his attention southward to Nubia and Abyssinia, roughly the lands of southern Egypt, the Sudan and Ethiopia in the modern age. As could be expected, there is a strong connection between Nubia, Abyssinia and Egypt; for instance, the Nubians DID conquer Egypt at one point and the Coptic Church spread to Ethiopia. As such, Budge is an excellent person to write this book. The one comment I will make is that it is somewhat dated. Budge, while still quite admirable, displays some of the common failings of his day. Nonetheless, as this book was written during Ethiopia's historic years, I still recommend that anyone with an interest in Ethiopia (or all things Ethiopian) check this book out if possible. Its well worth the time to read.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R2YLCTX3FLFGA8	1570626502	104994978	Out of this World: Otherworldly Journeys from Gilgamesh to Albert Einstein	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Shaman's Journey	This book, written by well known religious scholar I.P. Couliano, provides a wonderful background to the shamanic journey and how it can be found within all societies. He does a very nice cross cultural survey of Shamanism (and relatd concepts) in the early part of the book, showing the similarities of belief in the Americas, Siberia, Melanesia and elsewhere, as well as in Africa and Australia. From there he goes on to show the otherworldly journeys of the Mesopotamians, Egyptians, Chinese Taoists, Buddhists, Iranian mystics, Greek Medicine Men and Hebrew Qabbalists. Remarkable intellectuals and visionaries fill out the last couple chapters, including Neo-Platonic philosopher Plotonius, the Prophet Mohammad and Dante Alighieri, author of the Divine Comedy. Over all, this is perhaps the greatest non-culture specific survey of the Shamanic journey available. I strongly recommend that anyone interested in Shamanism, religious experiences and mysticism in general check out this book. Considering how widely varied Shamanism is (incorporating everything from Siberian and Polynesian religions to the ecstasies of Voudon and Santeria to Sufi mysticism and beyond), it might be a good beginning book.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R251CRE9OJ7T9V	0226568253	352272293	Gods, Demons, and Others	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Indian Myths and Legends	This is a very nice book in which R.K. Narayan retells various stories and legends from India. The stories range from those of Devi to the demon king Ravana and pretty much everything in between. What makes this particularly nice is Narayan's mastery of the English language. He manages to make these stories understandable and approachable for a western audience, and in doing so has created a wonderful book. Even if you are not familar with the many epics of ancient India, I strongly recommend that you approach this book. It makes it very easy for westerners to understand and appreciate the cultural works of South Asia. Check it out.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R14IOHBHP42CKJ	1585420913	473064747	Shamans Through Time: 500 Years on the Path to Knowledge	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting Idea	I really liked this book. Edited (in part) by the author of \\"The Cosmic Serpent\\", it gives a sweeping five-hundred year look at how outsiders have percieved Shamanism, from early missionaries and explorers who viewed it as the \\"work of the devil\\" to early anthropologists to modern seekers who want to experience Shamanism for themselves. The focus of this book is Siberia and the Americas (which is soemwhat disappointing, as they could have included Hokkaido, Micronesia, South Africa, Indonesia and elsewhere) and the whole purpose of the book is to tell about how outsiders have viewed (and expierenced) Shamanism. As such, its not always clear what the realities of the practice are or were. In addition, there were a few glaring omissions, such as Frazer. Nonetheless, the sheer scope of this overview (both in terms of times and geography) and the amount of information within make it an excellent source for study. If you are seriously interested in the historical practices of Shamanism, or perhaps the changing attitudes toward Shamanism in the west, then you really should seek this book out.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R1DKN5EOICWW5B	1588462390	265128917	Kindred of the Ebony Kingdom (Vampire: the Masquerade)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	World of Darkness in the Heart of Darkness	I have to admit, I was nervously looking forward to this book. WW has had a mixed history when doing &quot;non-western&quot; cultures (for instance, Mummy and Year of the Scarab did a good job covering Mid-Eastern culture, but then there were travesties like WoD: Gypsy). The outline that leaked out was good, and when the book final came in I was astonished. This book gives you everything you need to run an African Vampire game. Unlike Kindred of the East, which introduced a whole new supernatural being, this book focuses instead on African cainites known as Laibon. However, the spiritual and cultural beliefs of Africa have worked their own effects on the blood of Caine. The book introduces us to the Laibon's society, a series of Kingdoms ruled over by the Guruhi (one of the clans). There is no Camarilla, Sabbat or Anarchs. Either your with the Guruhi or against them. We also get to see other African &quot;clans&quot;, like the shamanistic Shango, the mercenary Kinyonyi and the wise Akunanse. And, of course, the Setites are there as well. Each &quot;clan&quot; is descendant of a western Clan (look at their discipines and weakness to try and figure out if you want), but changed. The disciplines are also changed. Auspex deals more with spirits, Dur-An-Ki (Assamite Sorcery) replaces Thaumaturgy and Vicissitude is... ick. And instead of Humanity or Paths of Enlightenment, you have a whole new system more attuned to African religions.<br />This aside, theres a wealth of material on African society in general. The book focuses primarily on sub-Saharan Africa (for more on North African areas like Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco and such, check out Veil of Night, Cairo by Night and the Assamite and Setite Clan Books) and provides a whole IC journey across West, Cenral and East Africa. Game wise, you also get some new traits, backgrounds and even magical items. Theres also a lot of rituals for incorporating Sangoma and Inyanga, African shaman and healers, along with guidelines for storytelling both in the Ebony Kingdoms and abroad. Stats in the back are also given for a vast array of wild animals, as well as shape-shifters (were-hyenas, jackals, crocodiles, spiders, sharks, etc), nature spirits, ghosts, zombies, African mages (shaman, witch-doctors, healers, witches, priests, etc) and such.<br />Over all, if you plan on using African material with vampire game, or even just running a general World of Darkness game set in Africa, you should definately check this book out. Its well worth your while. I've already run it in cross-overs with my Mummy game with good results.delines for storytelling both in the Ebony Kingdoms and abroad. Stats in the back are also given for a vast array of wild animals, as well as shape-shifters (were-hyenas, jackals, crocodiles, spiders, sharks, etc), nature spirits, ghosts, zombies, African mages (shaman, witch-doctors, healers, witches, priests, etc) and such.<BR>Over all, if you plan on using African material with vampire game, or even just running a general World of Darkness game set in Africa, you should definately check this book out. Its well worth your while. I've already run it in cross-overs with my Mummy game with good results.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R2NUP7DUXTY37P	1588464067	709417489	Dead Magic: Secrets and Survivors (Mage the Ascension)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More &quot;Lost&quot; Cultures	Alright, the first Dead Magic was great, so I had high expectations for this one. I wasn't disappointed. This time though, the focus on living cultures was just as strong as &quot;dead&quot; cultures. As such, we begin with a look at the shamanistic magics of Polynesia told IC by an anciet Kapuna to a Dreamspeaker refugee. The belief system of Huna was found throughout the entire region in some form or another, and this book gives an island to island survey of it, covering New Zealand, Samoa, Fiji, Hawaii, the Marquesas, Easter Island and elsewhere. Aside from mention of head hunting and cannibalism (which were parts of RL Polynesian religions), we also get a look at tattoo magic, fireballs, tikis, sea-faring magic and such. Theres also plenty of plot hooks, and even information on the &quot;lost&quot; Kopa Loei craft, now a part of the Dreamspeaker Tradition. It goes on to get to the Dreamtime of the Australian Aborigines, giving a great overview of tying the Dreamtime into the World of Darkness. A whole new set of rules for the Dreamtime, initiation rites and Dreamtime Ancestors is given, along with a vast array of Aboriginal rotes, wonders and plot hooks. Again, lots of Dreamspeaker stuff, but also a focus on Aboriginal society itself rather than &quot;Tradition&quot; or &quot;Technocracy&quot;.<br />Afterwards, we are treated to a relatively short chapter on Indian Shakti. After a strange fiction story about an Ecstasy Cultist's brush with a Kali cult, we get a nice overview of Tantra and the worship of Shiva and Kali. A few Hindu flavored rotes are given, rounding out this short chapter. Then we are treated to a section on European Shamanism. Lots of fiction stories here, each tying to a specific culture. I was expecting to see stuff about the Saami (Lapps) and such, but was completely shocked when I saw that it covered the shaman of the Irish, Scots, Picts, Britons, Anglo-Saxons, Russians, Poles, Finns and Germans. Lots of cool rotes, wonders and plot hooks, interestingly enough designed to fit in with Mage: the Dark Ages (for the Spirit-Talkers, proto-Dreamspeakers). Again, this is good for Dreamspeakers, but also the Aided, Verbena and so forth. Following this is a chapter on Norse magic. It really ties up Norse myths in the World of Darkness. Even explaining Hunters as Odin's warriors, and Ravana as Loki. Lots of cool rotes, and not just Runic stuff either. Theres spae-wives, seither (Norse shamanism), smithing, berserkers and so forth. Again, Dark Ages Valdaermen (and Spirit-Talkers for the Seither section) systems are given. Great for Verbena, Dreamspeakers, Ecstatics, Euthies or even Choristors and Hermetics. Finally, it closes out with some meta-plot story about an ancient Italian liche and some overviews of Etruscan magic, divinations and necromancy. Theres not alot to go on concerning ancient Italy (before the Romans anyway), so theres a list of gods, words and a reading list. The Euthanatoi and Hermetics still preserve some aspects of Etruscan magic in the WoD, so this was a really nice chapter.<br />Overall, I strongly recommend this book. Since the Dreamspeakers are my favorite Tradition, I appreciated the fact that most of the chapters (Polynesian, Australian Aboriginal, European Shamanism and Norse) tie in to that Tradition, but any Tradition could benefit from this book. The Euthanatos draw upon Hindu beliefs, Norse rune-casting and Etruscan necromancy; the Verbena would love to learn about the ancient beliefs of the Norse, Anglo-Saxons and Irish. I haven't incorporated any of this stuff in my games yet, though I'm planning on making heavy use of the Polynesian chapter soon. Regardless, my only disappointment was the lack of Filipino magic (presumably native shamanism), but then again, perhaps we shall see a Dead Magic 3!erestingly enough designed to fit in with Mage: the Dark Ages (for the Spirit-Talkers, proto-Dreamspeakers). Again, this is good for Dreamspeakers, but also the Aided, Verbena and so forth. Following this is a chapter on Norse magic. It really ties up Norse myths in the World of Darkness. Even explaining Hunters as Odin's warriors, and Ravana as Loki. Lots of cool rotes, and not just Runic stuff either. Theres spae-wives, seither (Norse shamanism), smithing, berserkers and so forth. Again, Dark Ages Valdaermen (and Spirit-Talkers for the Seither section) systems are given. Great for Verbena, Dreamspeakers, Ecstatics, Euthies or even Choristors and Hermetics. Finally, it closes out with some meta-plot story about an ancient Italian liche and some overviews of Etruscan magic, divinations and necromancy. Theres not alot to go on concerning ancient Italy (before the Romans anyway), so theres a list of gods, words and a reading list. The Euthanatoi and Hermetics still preserve some aspects of Etruscan magic in the WoD, so this was a really nice chapter.<BR>Overall, I strongly recommend this book. Since the Dreamspeakers are my favorite Tradition, I appreciated the fact that most of the chapters (Polynesian, Australian Aboriginal, European Shamanism and Norse) tie in to that Tradition, but any Tradition could benefit from this book. The Euthanatos draw upon Hindu beliefs, Norse rune-casting and Etruscan necromancy; the Verbena would love to learn about the ancient beliefs of the Norse, Anglo-Saxons and Irish. I haven't incorporated any of this stuff in my games yet, though I'm planning on making heavy use of the Polynesian chapter soon. Regardless, my only disappointment was the lack of Filipino magic (presumably native shamanism), but then again, perhaps we shall see a Dead Magic 3!	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R2CXQ5KSWVKYK7	0874779642	251799285	The Cosmic Serpent: DNA and the Origins of Knowledge	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Quetzalcoatl's Return	When I first picked up this book, I was amazed. The author has done an excellent job of reconciling indigenous belief systems with modern science. In this book, he attempts to give us an idea of where man fits into the universe and what it means to be human. His defense of indigenous people from western exploitation is wonderful. From indigenous socieites he has taken the Shamanic trance state and uncovered universal archetypes like the serpent, which appear in societies throughout the world, from Australia to South America to Egypt and beyond. He then filters it through the lens of science to gain his own unique insight. In general, if you have an interest in Shamanism and Neo-Shamanism, then this work is definately worth the read.	2003-06-01
US	48854119	R372YYVWSXCP3T	1559391294	331651218	The Philosophical View of the Great Perfection in the Tibetan Bon Religion (Tibetan Bon Philosophy)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent Source for Bon Po Studies	One problem facing Western scholars with an interest in the indigenous Bon religion of Tibet is that there is a noticable lack of translations of Bon scriptures in the West. Indeed, there are very few Bon scriptures in translation at all, and those that do exist are often expensive and difficult to acquire. This book gives two translations of Bon scripture (\\"The Twelve Little Tantras\\" and \\"The View Which is Like the Lion's Roar\\") complete with corresponding and transliterated Zhang-Zhung text. Granted, we can safely assume that this is of little use to the casual reader (even those with a serious interest in shamanic traditions or Tibetan culture), and that a good scholar would be able to read Zhang-Zhung in its native script, but this is a small detail. Furthermore, the book is full of notes and commentary. Overall, I strongly recommend this book for anyone with a scholarly interest in Tibetan religion, especially those familar with Tibetan languages. Casual readers still will have to look about for a more generalized book about the Bon religion and its cultural traditions, but should find this book quite interesting as well.	2003-03-13
US	48854119	R1OESV43XPWEPX	1567184898	14905119	Finnish Magic (Llewellyn's World Religion & Magick)	Books	2	17	19	N	N	Nnnnn....	I'm tempted to lean towards one and a half stars for this but E-bay doesn't really let us do that.<br />Anyway, this isn't a horrible book. It certainly does not give any insight into authentic Finnish (or Saami) traditions, it does give some insight into modern &quot;neo-shamanic&quot; beliefs that are built around a historic base... and the inherent weaknesses within. In my mind, there are several great problems with the book. Not the least of which is that the author appearently doesn't speak Finnish! Aside from that, he blurs the line on the differences between Finnish, Saami and Scandinavian culture and mythology. That he calls the Saami &quot;Lapps&quot; (an antiquated term which many consider offensive) MIGHT be overlooked, but to claim that the Saami and Finns borrowed all their cultural beliefs from the Norse is far worse. This is not new amongst neo-Pagans, many of whom are quite intent on stealing native cultures for themselves, often strainin them through a Eurocentric medium. I can think of countless New Age gurus who claim ancient Native American or Maori secrets, often made up at the spur of the moment. So definately avoid thinking that this book provides any information on authentic Finnish culture.<br />Also, his other great error is that he relies far too much on literature. While the Kalevala may indeed be an excellent source for pre-Christian Finnish beliefs, it seems that he based a large portion of his book off the great epic. Again, this is rather sloppy scholarship. It would have been better to include a greater focus on archaeological studies, or even making educated guesses based off studies of other Finnic cultures. Furthermore, the fact that the book is written with a &quot;do-it-yourself&quot; attitude strikes me as potentially dangerous. Yes, hallucagenic mushrooms, animal sacrifice and bath houses played a major role in shamanic rites in the north, but including potentially dangerous mis-information to the public is not a good idea. It is very possible to injure oneself using mushrooms or bath houses, and improper animal sacrifices are just as bad.<br />Having said all of that, I do admit that it gives some insight into the thoughts and beliefs of at least some so-called &quot;Neo-shamanists&quot; who have appropriated cultural and religious practices and adapted them to their own culture. Such a thing is not new, nor is it entirely European. The best way to approach this text is with a skeptical, scientific view; its better to study neo-shamanic/new age beliefs with than &quot;ancient and enlightened&quot; Finnish culture.very possible to injure oneself using mushrooms or bath houses, and improper animal sacrifices are just as bad.<BR>Having said all of that, I do admit that it gives some insight into the thoughts and beliefs of at least some so-called &quot;Neo-shamanists&quot; who have appropriated cultural and religious practices and adapted them to their own culture. Such a thing is not new, nor is it entirely European. The best way to approach this text is with a skeptical, scientific view; its better to study neo-shamanic/new age beliefs with than &quot;ancient and enlightened&quot; Finnish culture.	2003-03-13
US	48854119	R11DVGXXSNPWN5	1588464008	515633256	Tradition Book Dreamspeakers Rev *OP	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dreaming Beyond the Stereotypes	Wow! And I thought the original Dreamspeakers Tradition book was good. This one just blew me away. It was so amazing. This revised edition really expands on just what it means to be a Shaman. Following the journey of a young Shaman, we learn just about every aspect of Shamanism in this book. Starting from the introduction, which explains the mood, theme and set-up of the book, we go into a brief history of the world, as told by the spirits themselves. Then they go on to take us on a tour of the Americas, Africa and other lands, and the shaman who work in those lands. Sidebars fill us in on spirit perspectives and how words really can matter when dealing with spirits. We go on to get Dreamspeaker views on other Traditions, supernatural beings and even dealing with spirits. The first chapter closes out with  word on Dreamspeaker philosophy and how shamanism can be integrated with other religions, from New Age faiths and Shinto to Christianity and Islam.<br />The next chapter goes into more details on Dreamspeaker structure, giving write-ups for each major Dreamspeaker faction: the Baruti (wandering storytellers), spirit-trained Independants, the Ghost Wheel Society (techno-shamans), Keepers of the Sacred Flame (traditional shaman), Red Spears (warriors), Spirit Smiths (fetish makers) and Solitares (lone shaman). Then we get more on animism, ecstasy and transvestite shamanism, followed by how Dreamspeakers view magic and the spheres. Some new mechanics for madness, Awakened items, coping with the Avatar Storm, Spirit allies, Totems and lesser Shaman paths, as well as more spirit Rotes (many quite inventive) and Fetishes than you can shake a stick at, close out this chapter.<br />The next chapter goes through famous Dreamspeakers, including a Siberian master who survived the Avatar Storms and Xoca, the Dreamspeaker signature character. Then we get some interesting suggestions for Dreamspeaker chronicles, and a group of NPCs who serve as shamans by helping educate poor communities across the world. Then we get the usual sample NPCs, including some unique ones like an Armenian vigilante who speaks to ghosts of his murdered relatives, a Native American shaman attached to the American military as an advisor, the shaman without a tribe and an African pirate who follows Shango, the Orisha of thunder.<br />The end of the book brings the story of our Shaman-in-training full circle, though I won't give it away. We also get some very good recommendations for books and movies, most of which I agree embody Dreamspeaker ideals or themes quite well. Over all, its a great resource for playing Dreamspeakers, or even shamans in general. After all, most of the infomation is very general, so it can apply equally well for Orphans, Kopa Loei, Ba'ata, Sons of Tengri and Ecstatic or Akashic Shaman.<br />My only comment on the book is that it is very broad. Shamanism is a varied practice found in all cultures. Sure, you've got Native American, Siberian, African, Aboriginal, Korean and Pacific Islander Shamanism. But Shamanism exists elsewhere; followers of Voudon and Santeria, Shinto priests, Christian mystics who speak to Angels and Demons, Bedouin wisewomen, Bluesmen who learn from the Dark Man at the Crossroads, Mexican curanderos, Bon Po priests in Tibet, Chinese peasant wizards and beyond. If you really want to add cultural depth to your character, it might help to get a good book on anthropology, mythology or a specific culture (Hmong, !Kung, Aboriginal, Cree, Aztec, etc) as well.nities across the world. Then we get the usual sample NPCs, including some unique ones like an Armenian vigilante who speaks to ghosts of his murdered relatives, a Native American shaman attached to the American military as an advisor, the shaman without a tribe and an African pirate who follows Shango, the Orisha of thunder.<BR>The end of the book brings the story of our Shaman-in-training full circle, though I won't give it away. We also get some very good recommendations for books and movies, most of which I agree embody Dreamspeaker ideals or themes quite well. Over all, its a great resource for playing Dreamspeakers, or even shamans in general. After all, most of the infomation is very general, so it can apply equally well for Orphans, Kopa Loei, Ba'ata, Sons of Tengri and Ecstatic or Akashic Shaman.<BR>My only comment on the book is that it is very broad. Shamanism is a varied practice found in all cultures. Sure, you've got Native American, Siberian, African, Aboriginal, Korean and Pacific Islander Shamanism. But Shamanism exists elsewhere; followers of Voudon and Santeria, Shinto priests, Christian mystics who speak to Angels and Demons, Bedouin wisewomen, Bluesmen who learn from the Dark Man at the Crossroads, Mexican curanderos, Bon Po priests in Tibet, Chinese peasant wizards and beyond. If you really want to add cultural depth to your character, it might help to get a good book on anthropology, mythology or a specific culture (Hmong, !Kung, Aboriginal, Cree, Aztec, etc) as well.	2002-12-23
US	48854119	R3N1J12UP9XNG2	1588463117	150761266	Tribebook: Shadow Lords	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Thunder's Tribe!	Another really good Tribebook for Werewolf's revised setting, this Tribebook does just what it's supposed to: it informs you on the Shadow Lords in the revised setting. After getting through a film-noir type fiction, we get into a brief description on just who the Shadow Lords are and why they do what they do. They're in defending the mother at any cost. No wonder they can seem treacherous and brutal. We go through a brief history of the Shadow Lords, from their distant homelands in the steppes of Central Asia to the rise of the Ottoman Empire to the fall of the Soviet Union. Some neat sidebars on things like the Mongol branch of the tribe, the troubled relations with the Silver Fangs and even actions to appease the Bat totem for the actions of Conquistador Shadow Lords long ago fill out the chapter.<br />The next chapter is filled with information on Shadow Lord spirituality. Stuff about Shadow Moots, views on Gaia and the Triat, stereotypes about auspices and breeds (and surprisingly not as harsh on Metis as one would expect), an overview of the litany, totems (mainly Thunder and his brood) and so forth. Of particular importance here the various camps and secret societies. All the old camps, from the Bringers of Light (who infiltrate, spy on and subvert minions of the Wyrm from within)to the Children of Crow (spies and informants) to the Judges of Doom (enforcers of justice) are mentioned. The major secret societies have all fallen far from the Lords, many being actively hunted. However, I was particularly interested in the Children of Bat, a new camp dedicated to appeasing the Bat totem. Naturally, the Shadow Lords homelands in Eastern Europe, Russia, Spain and Latin America (as well as elsewhere in the world) are explored, as well as views on other Tribes and supernatural beings (especially their hated vampire foes).<br />The next chapter fills us in on mechanics. Shadow Lord views on Backgrounds are approached, as well as a new Background to make up for the lack of Allies! We also get a whole lot of Tribal and Camp-specific Gifts. Alot of them are hold-overs from Werewolf: the Apocalypse and Werewolf: the Wild West re-written for the revised setting. However, there are some great new Gifts, including some taught by Bat totem. Alot of brand new Rites are also given, as well as new Totems (Crow, Typhon and Bat!) and Fetishes (including the Assassin's Klaive) and a nice new Talen to help cut down on Vampires. Theres also a couple neat Merits and Flaws in there too.<br />I was taken back when I looked through the back of the book, as the majority of the Shadow Lord templates are actually pretty cool! So are most of the Lords in the \\"famous Shadow Lords chapter\\". One is the founder of the Judges of Doom (and is really frightening). Another, \\"The Iron Maiden\\" was a vampire hunting metis with no physical deformity... but a terrible curse. Theres also a Shadow Lord woman struggling against both vampires AND Pentex, and a potent Theurge redeeming the Bat totem. And of course, theres the Margrave Yuri Konietzko. However, by far the coolest was a Shadow Lord based off the Beast of Gevauden! In the story it even contains an ironic twist for Jean Chastel as well.<br />Over all, this was an excellent book, and is well worth it for adding depth to any Werewolf gameAllies! We also get a whole lot of Tribal and Camp-specific Gifts. Alot of them are hold-overs from Werewolf: the Apocalypse and Werewolf: the Wild West re-written for the revised setting. However, there are some great new Gifts, including some taught by Bat totem. Alot of brand new Rites are also given, as well as new Totems (Crow, Typhon and Bat!) and Fetishes (including the Assassin's Klaive) and a nice new Talen to help cut down on Vampires. Theres also a couple neat Merits and Flaws in there too.<BR>I was taken back when I looked through the back of the book, as the majority of the Shadow Lord templates are actually pretty cool! So are most of the Lords in the \\"famous Shadow Lords chapter\\". One is the founder of the Judges of Doom (and is really frightening). Another, \\"The Iron Maiden\\" was a vampire hunting metis with no physical deformity... but a terrible curse. Theres also a Shadow Lord woman struggling against both vampires AND Pentex, and a potent Theurge redeeming the Bat totem. And of course, theres the Margrave Yuri Konietzko. However, by far the coolest was a Shadow Lord based off the Beast of Gevauden! In the story it even contains an ironic twist for Jean Chastel as well.<BR>Over all, this was an excellent book, and is well worth it for adding depth to any Werewolf game	2002-12-04
US	48854119	R28JMTMW8HUOTF	0465004989	648256766	The Assassins	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Delivers What It Promises	Its kind of hard to come across even half-way decent books about groups like the Hashashyinn, Thuggee, Knights Templar and other \\"secret\\" societies. In part because so much [stuff] has been written of them in the past, and after a while it just becomes impossible to seperate truth from fiction. Nonetheless, Lewis does a decent job of presenting a history of the Assassins, or at least from what we can make of it.<br />The most important thing to remember here is that the Assassins were not following mainstream Islam. Indeed, as the title suggest, they were following a very radical heresy only loosely connected to Islam. Sort of like the Inquisition and numerous cults in the modern era only nominally follow Christianity. Therefore, Lewis had to spend more time discussing the group's beliefs and formation than their activities. For the most part, he describes the Assassins, what they did, and their brief history, and leaves it at that.<br />Over all, it's a quick decent read, but likely to be of interest to you only if you already have some interest in the Assassins or the time period. A casual reader may very well be left perplexed after reading this book however. In the end, all I can really say is that if you want a brief history of the Assassins, then by all means go out and get this book. It really is a nice book about them. If, however, you want information on real Islam, the Crusades, other secret societies, assassinations in general or some other topic, this book would be of limited use to you.	2002-12-02
US	48854119	R370UGC87XZ4GD	1858284686	324186878	The Rough Guide to West Africa, 3rd	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Decent But Not Great	The Rough Guide series is nice, if sometimes odd, for understanding what to do and what not to do in particular countries or regions. Usually, its best to get both Rough Guide and Lonely Plaent and compared the information between the two, just to avoid any unfortunate occurances. But thats just me. Anyway, this book basically covers travel in West Africa: Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Senegal, the Gambia, Cabo Verde, Burkina Faso, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria and Cameroon. Theres basic travel information, as well as notes for getting into and out of each country, and things you can do while your there. Maps, religious information, notes on social mores, currency info, food and so forth are all covered throughout the book. There are also some useful phrases in French (the most widely spoken language in West Africa), as well as some phrases in Hassaniya Arabic, Mandinka, Bamana, Twi, Susu, Hausa, Yoruba and other indigenous languages.<br />Fans of Afro-Pop should check out the back of this book, which is full of cultural references. There are lists of significant books, movies, musicians and songs. Sure, it is a bit dated, but some old favorites are included on the list who are well worth checking out. In fact, I should restate that, given the mercurial nature of African society, it is pretty likely that many things in this book have changed since it was published. Before doing anything in this book, you might want to look it up online or something first.	2002-12-02
US	48854119	R1M8QSUICSX7AS	1565042034	104925052	*OP Libellus Sanguinis 3 (Vampire: The Dark Ages Clanbooks)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	3 Clanbooks in 1 Book!!!	Continuing WW's Libellus Sanguinus series, which details three Dark Ages vampire clans per book, this book details the three non-European clans in the Dark Ages setting. Essentially, each book is a mini-clanbook, covering the clan's history, outlooks, practices and disciplines during the Dark Ages. Considering that my favorite clans are covered in this book, I found it very exciting.<br />After an introduction saying what is in the book and why, we get to the first section, \\"Animals\\", which covers the feral and animalistic Gangrel barbarians. Probably the shortest book in this collection, it goes from the Gangrel's distant roots on the steppes of Central Asia to the Dark Ages, covering the Gangrel's outlook and practices like the revel and the survival test new embraces are subjected to. A brief section on views on other Clans and the wild places in Europe is followed by a section full of game mechanics, from wilderness oriented Merits and Flaws to new Protean and mixed discipline powers. It closes out with two new bloodlines (Greek Gangrel and the Mariners), brief mention on the \\"animal forms\\" that different Gangrel might assume and a few sample templates. There is also a \\"dark secret\\" concerning the Gangrel's connection to the Ravnos.<br />Following this is the chapter on the Assamites, which did quite a bit to clear up old stereotypes. After a really cool fiction piece, we get to learn about the Children of Haqim, from their homelands in Arabia, Persia and North Africa to distant Iberia, Byzantium and even into India, Asia and Africa. This is followed by some info on Alamut, Haqim's whereabouts and other clan specific info, as well as a nice section on the Clan's relatiosnhip to religions (and Viae). No longer is the Clan stereotypically associated with Islam, but now with many religions from Christianity and Judaism to distant Eastern religions to the ancient faiths of Greece and Persia. After getting Haqim's Laws (the Assamites code as it were) and views on other clans, it also goes into detail on the three Assamite castes: the Warriors (not just assassins, but also soldiers, judges, hunters and strategists), Sorcerers (specialists in Mid-Eastern magic) and Viziers (scholars, theologians, politicians and artists), as well as the clan's organization and secret societies.<br />Some really neat mechanics (like the Multicultural Merit, Quietus powers and some more info on Assamite blood magic) were included, as well as really original character templates, like th Sea Witch and the Reluctant Crusader. The Assamite's \\"dark secret\\" involves the Clan's connections, real and imagined, to the Hashashyinn and is a suprisingly clever twist.<br />The final chapter, \\"Serpents\\", focuses on the Followers of Set, and finally connects them to Egyptian magic and mythology. The Setites are presented as crusaders on a holy task, no longer mere tempters and corrupters. And they don't believe in Caine like other vampires, literally believing in Egyptian mythology and religion. The Setite backstory goes that they believe they are liberating man (and vampires) from the oppressive tyranny of Ma'at (law or balance). Info on the Setite's history, doings in Egypt and beyond, as well as the schism between the older Egyptian priesthood and the younger Decadents (primarily in Byzantium and Europe) were also really neat.<br />There were also plenty of mechanics for running Setites. Aside from the Merits and Flaws, there was also more information on Setite blood magics, including a new Path. There was also a new Via (Via Serpentis), designed off attaining the \\"original\\" or \\"natural\\" state of man, and it is presented as the ORIGINAL Setite Via. Pretty cool stuff. The character templates weren't bad but didn't particularly interest me. The dark secret for the Setites, involving a dark conspiracy concerning the Assamites, Setites and Baali, was pretty neat, but not really unexpected. Overall, this was an excellent book and a long needed overhaul for all three Clans really. Check it out, even if you don't use the Dark Ages setting.ally. Check it out, even if you don't use the Dark Ages setting.	2002-12-02
US	48854119	R24LQ31S4KHKU5	0850456827	394566138	Saladin and the Saracens (Men-at-Arms)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Nice Work	Part of the Osprey's series covering various troops and soldiers from important historical periods, this book takes a (very) brief look at the armies in the Middle East during the time of the Crusades. Over all, its a short, somewhat general read. The emphasis is, of course, on Middle Eastern soldiers, so much of it is devoted to Saladin and the Arab and Kurdish armies, but there is also some stuff on the tribal Turks and the Armenians and Cilicians, which I found interesting. Information is given on all the troops, how they fought, what sort of arms and armor they used, where they came from and so forth. Some things were skipped over, or left out entirely, but considering the limited scope of this book, that can be forgivven. Personally, I was amazed by how much they did manage to fit in at any rate! Of particular interest are the wonderful color plates, which go into magnificent details on specific troops and their equipment.<br />Its a pretty decent book. Not too detailed, perhaps, but it has some excellent visuals and can easily put the Crusades into context and sum things up. If this time period interests you, then by all means look into this book.	2002-12-02
US	48854119	R38YVFSQ3IAK6Q	1565047850	623029682	Kithbook: Eshu *OP (Changeling: The Dreaming)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Afro-Centric Fae!	One of the final books in the Changeling line, I was so excited that this book even managed to come out. Unlike most other Changeling books (which are often excessively Western, particularly Celtic, based), this book focuses on the Eshu, the wandering kith from Africa, the Mid-East and Asia.<br />After a cool, African-styled story, we get into Eshu history, from the Orisha's creation of the world, to the negative meetings with the European fae, to the modern era. Following this is an Eshu lexicon (of mainly Yoruban, Rromani and Creole words). THe next chapter goes into the diversity of Eshu society, including not only African, Mid-Eastern, Indian and Rromani Eshu, but also \\"western\\", Native American, Aboriginal and even Asian Eshu. Eshu Birthrights, traditions and lifestyles are all explored in depth, from their love of wandeirng, carousing and telling good stories, to their reverence for Uhuru (freedom) and their devotion to the Orisihas. This is continued in the next chapter, which covers Ojo (Seelie) and Iku (Unseelie) courts, as well as Eshu stereotypes, both on the Kithain and on other, stranger beings they've encountered on their travels.<br />The next chapter goes into depth on two important sub-kiths as it were: the Oba, royal caliphs and chieftens (easily rivalling any Sidhe) who remain exclusively in the Eshu's homelands of Africa, the Middle East and India; and the Aithu, corrupt Thallain mockeries of the Eshu, noted for their greed and cunning, who have thus far remained in Africa, but slowly creeping into the Mid-East and Eastern Europe. In addition, there are a some NPCs, including legendary tale-teller Scherezade and Voudon Queen Marie Laveau. These are followed by some original templates, like the Wandering Capoeira Teacher.<br />The book closes out with some nice Eshu-specific mechanics, lik tribal tattoos, Eshu-specific Merits and Flaws, two new backgrounds (Royal Lineage for the Oba and the Orisha Bond for Eshu to have African-style totems), treasures (like a blessed opa and Scherezade's circle) and a new Art: TaleCraft (basically enchanting an audience). Over all, most of these mechanics are pretty cool too. I think that any fan of Changeling, particularly those seeking something new or exotic, should check this book out while you still can find it.like a blessed opa and Scherezade's circle) and a new Art: TaleCraft (basically enchanting an audience). Over all, most of these mechanics are pretty cool too. I think that any fan of Changeling, particularly those seeking something new or exotic, should check this book out while you still can find it.	2002-12-02
US	48854119	R3RF90W013BC07	1565044355	96052729	Book of Crafts *OP (Mage - The Ascension)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Some Nice Stuff for Second Edition	Another decent book written for second edition, but that could easily be adapted for revised, this book focuses on the Crafts: small (usually culturally connected) groups of Mages who choose to ignore all four sides in the Ascension War. However, unlike the Hollow Ones, many of these Crafts are pretty cool.<br />The first section covers the Bata'a, a small craft practicing Voudon, Santeria, Candomble, Hoodoo and other related religions. Based mainly in Haiti and other parts of the Carribean, they stood aloof from all outsiders. There is a nice glossary of Voudon and Bata'a related terms, so you shouldn't get too lost. Great detail is given to Voudon cosmology, including various Loa. There is also a bit of detail concerning the Bata'a's cultic organization, Voudon foci and symbolism, and the Bata'a's ongoing war with the Followers of Set. Sample rotes, Wonders and information on Zombis as Companions is included, and can easily be adapted for revised. The sample character, \\"Damballah's Daughter\\" is pretty cool, but not terribly original.<br />The next group, the \\"Sons of Knowledge\\" didn't particularly interest me. They are a group of alchemists formerly members of the Solificati, the \\"outcast\\" Tradition. This section goes into Mage history and metaplot, as well as giving a brief overview of alchemy, some alchemical foci and symbolism, sample rotes, Wonders and homunculi. Following this was a section on the Hem ka Sobk, an obscure Egyptian cult following the crocodile god Sobk. Unable to access certain Spheres, and united by a divine purpose, they stand alone in the world (although they do maintain some connections with the Ahl-i-Batin, Mummies and even Mokole). Of all groups, they are the most original, and most intended for ST use. Their section gives alot of detail on Egyptian thoughts on magic and such.<br />Another chapter covers the Kopa Loei, a Hawai'ian Craft made up of Ali'i (chieftens), Kahunas (priests and shamans) and enlightened adventurers, fishermen and explorers. Deeply connected to the land of Hawai'i, even maintaining relations with the Rokea (were-sharks) and Menhune (Hawai'ian fae), the Kopa Loei continue to carry a strong connection to the Gods themselves.There is a Hawai'ian glossary so you won't get lost in the front. Lots of details are given on Hawai'i's troubled history and continued exploitation by Haole, along with details on historical Hawai'ian society, common foci for all castes, descriptions of the Gods, sample rotes (pretty cool ones too), some Wonders and notes on animal Companions. The sample character, a reformed thug, is pretty decent, but not too surprising.<br />The Sisters of Hippolyta, modern amazons devoted to healing, were nothing too original. The section focused on their communal organization and matriarchal pagan magics. Some sample rotes, Wonders and animal companions are given, but nothing too new or interesting. They are followed, ironically, by the Knights Templar. YES! Another secret society for the World of Darkness. Exploring Christian mysticism, secret societies and modern day knights, this was a very unique chapter. The sample rotes are pretty martially oriented, as are the Wonders and animal companions. Neat chapter overall.<br />The next two chapters focus on warring Chinese Crafts. The first, the Wu-keng, are all-male transvestite shamans and peasant wizards who fell to infernalism long ago. Now, unknowingly led by demons, these \\"Subtle Ladies\\" practice their dark (but subtle) magics against their rivals the Wu Lung, imperial wizards of China. These proud wizards, almost akin to Chinese hermetics, draw on elaborate rituals, alchemy, ancestor worship and so forth. Unfortunately, like alot of other ancient Chinese customs, they have been displaced from modern Maoist China. Both sections are particularly unique, although I like the irony presented by the Wu-Keng myself, as they don't even realize they now serve demons. Probably the best written infernalist in Mage.<br />The one thing to remember if you use this book in Mage is that the revised setting has changed quite a bit. The Technocracy has eliminated most of the Crafts. The Children of Knowledge were forced to join the Order of Hermes as House Solificati. The Wu Lung threw their lot in with the Akashics to preserve China's culture. Many, though not all, of the Knights Templar joined their brothers in faith, the Celestial Chorus. The Hem Ka Sobk were corrupted by unknown forces. And the Bata'a and Kopa Loei joined with the shamans of the Dreamspeakers.<br />Over all, however, this book does an excellent job of providing organization and philosophy for these groups. Plus, some groups (like the Knights Templar, Hem Ka Sobk and Sisters of Hippolyta) can proove useful for Mummy (or other Mid-Eastern centered) games. I recommend this book, but only if you intend to focus heavily on one of the groups or beliefs in this book.remember if you use this book in Mage is that the revised setting has changed quite a bit. The Technocracy has eliminated most of the Crafts. The Children of Knowledge were forced to join the Order of Hermes as House Solificati. The Wu Lung threw their lot in with the Akashics to preserve China's culture. Many, though not all, of the Knights Templar joined their brothers in faith, the Celestial Chorus. The Hem Ka Sobk were corrupted by unknown forces. And the Bata'a and Kopa Loei joined with the shamans of the Dreamspeakers.<BR>Over all, however, this book does an excellent job of providing organization and philosophy for these groups. Plus, some groups (like the Knights Templar, Hem Ka Sobk and Sisters of Hippolyta) can proove useful for Mummy (or other Mid-Eastern centered) games. I recommend this book, but only if you intend to focus heavily on one of the groups or beliefs in this book.	2002-11-29
US	48854119	R3V72A86YA51LK	1588462226	232979079	Blood Sacrifice: The Thaumaturgy Companion (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Non-Western Blood Magic	Unlike the previous Blood Magic book, this book explores non-western and non-Tremere blood magics. After all, Assamite sorcerers, undead Brahmins and Setite mystics have their own dark secrets far older than the upstart Tremere. If you intend on using non-western Thaumaturgy a lot, this book is almost required. The mechanics are explored for each form of Blood Magic, but the most important aspect is that the philosophy behind each form is explored in detail. Common beliefs, spiritual connections and mystic tools are given for every style.<br />The first section focuses on Akhu, the dead magics of Egypt which the Setites have become so well known for. While not exclusive to the Followers of Set, the small handful of other Egyptian vampires who practice Akhu still honor Set in their practices. This chapter goes into great detail on Egyptian mysticism and beliefs, explaining important Egyptian Gods and Goddesses (yes, including Set) and beliefs in the underworld. Most of the Paths used in Akhu are already existing Thaumaturgy Paths called by Egyptian names (Sutekh's Valor and Path of Anubis for example), but there are lots of specific rituals for Setite mystics as well. There are also a couple new paths, such as Ushabti (creating working servants) and Path of Duat (underworld magic).<br />Assamite fans will be pleased by the next chapter, covering Dur-An-Ki, the magics of the ancient Middle East. Drawing on everything from ancient Mesopotamian, Hittite, Persian and Assyrian rites to Jewish qabbala to Christian and Islamic mysticism to Neo-Platonic philosophy, this is a pretty potent collection of traditions (both living and dead). Although dominated by Assamite sorcerers, it also is known by some Middle Eastern Brujah, Hajj Nosferatu, Mithraic Ventrue and many other Mid-Eastern ashipu. Special notice is made that there is a schism between older practicioners, who lierally worship Mithras, Marduk, Dagon and so forth, and younger practicioners, many of whom are Jews, Christians or Muslims.  Again, most of the paths and rituals are regular Thauamturgy with names made more \\"Arabic\\" or \\"Mid-Eastern\\". Alot of the names come from the revised Assamite clanbook. However, there are some new rituals, many based off Arab folklore and Mesopotamian mythology. There are also some new paths, like the Evil Eye (self-explanatory) and Covenant of Nergal (disease magics).<br />Sadhana, tantric blood magic of India, is explored next. This magic is steeped very heavily in Hindu belief, which isn't too unusual. However, the way that vampires interpert Hinduism is somewhat different from the way that living Hindus do. Nonetheless, this is still an excellent chapter. This magic, is should be noted, is the exclusive property of the Brahmin class and, as such, is unique almost entirely to the Setites, Ventrue and Ravnos, the ruling castes in India. Notes on Hindu beliefs (and vampiric perversions thereoff) along with Hindu Gods and various Indian symbols and beliefs are given. Again, most paths are already existing Thauamturgical paths, though there are plenty of new rituals (some of which are quite potent). New Paths, including the long awaited Path of Karma, and the Blood-Nectar Path (which, incidentally, the Assamites know a variation of) are given.<br />Finally, we also get a look at Wanga, blood magics that were spawned from Afro-Carribean traditions. As might be expected, Wanga is used primarily by the Serpents of Light, Samedi and other Kindred from that region. The section explores the beliefs of various Afro-Carribean faiths, with the majority being devoted to Voudon, Santeria and Palo Mayombe. As could be expected, Wanateurs need to believe in one (or more) of these religions to use Wanga. Important Loas, Orishas and Nikisi are explored, along with commmon tools in Voudon. Again, most common Thaumaturgy paths and rituals are used in Wanga, along with some unique rituals. New Paths, including Voice of the Wild (an animal based path), are given. This chapter does briefly mention that similar magics are used in Africa, but it doesn't go into details. Presumably, more on African blood magic will be explored in Kindred of the Ebony Kingdom.<br />The book closes out with a Storyteller section, which gives some more Rituals for both Koldunic Sorcery and Voudon Necromany, and some odds and ends. There is alot of information on \\"spontaneous talismans\\" and how to use them in your Chronicles. There is also a write-up for the Tlacique, an Aztec/Mayan/Incan bloodline of Setites, and their own blood magics. Drawing from Olmec, Toltec, Aztec, Mayan, Incan and other traditions, this is pretty dark and gruesome stuff. The Path of Xipe Totec is pretty nasty!<br />All in all, this is an excellent book. Players of Assamites will definately appreciate how fleshed out Dur-An-Ki has become, while anyone who wanted to use Setite blood magics will appreciate the fleshing out of Egyptian, Indian, Voudon/Santerian and Aztec/Mayan/Incan blood magics. Given the heavy focus on Egypt, the Middle East and Africa, this could also be appropriate for running \\"Year of the Scarab\\" games or Mummy-crossovers (or you could use the Tlacique and their magics if you want to crossover with the South American Capacocha). Regardless of how you use it though, this book can be very useful for both players and STs.er does briefly mention that similar magics are used in Africa, but it doesn't go into details. Presumably, more on African blood magic will be explored in Kindred of the Ebony Kingdom.<BR>The book closes out with a Storyteller section, which gives some more Rituals for both Koldunic Sorcery and Voudon Necromany, and some odds and ends. There is alot of information on \\"spontaneous talismans\\" and how to use them in your Chronicles. There is also a write-up for the Tlacique, an Aztec/Mayan/Incan bloodline of Setites, and their own blood magics. Drawing from Olmec, Toltec, Aztec, Mayan, Incan and other traditions, this is pretty dark and gruesome stuff. The Path of Xipe Totec is pretty nasty! <BR>All in all, this is an excellent book. Players of Assamites will definately appreciate how fleshed out Dur-An-Ki has become, while anyone who wanted to use Setite blood magics will appreciate the fleshing out of Egyptian, Indian, Voudon/Santerian and Aztec/Mayan/Incan blood magics. Given the heavy focus on Egypt, the Middle East and Africa, this could also be appropriate for running \\"Year of the Scarab\\" games or Mummy-crossovers (or you could use the Tlacique and their magics if you want to crossover with the South American Capacocha). Regardless of how you use it though, this book can be very useful for both players and STs.	2002-11-29
US	48854119	RWRO0XCCSI3V7	1588462064	141681917	Veil of Night (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Islamic World in the Dark Ages Setting	Probably the best book for the Dark Ages setting thus far, this Year of the Scarab release focuses on the Islamic world in the context of Dark Ages: Vampire. After opening up with a short fiction of a vampire's meeting with Mohammad, and another short fiction focusing on a the lengths that ashipu (Middle Eastern vampire magicians) must go to, we get to an excellent introduction. The introduction explains what the book is an isn't, as well as giving us a lot of useful books, magazines and websites to visit concerning the real history of the Islamic world. Remember that while the west was in the \\"dark ages\\", the Islamic world was experiencing a golden age of science and learning. There is also a lexicon of Arabic and Islamic terms that are used in the book, and more specifically the context they hold in the game.<br />The first chapter covers the history of Islam, giving a biography of the Prophet Mohammad, as well as a historical account of the spread of Islam across the Middle East and North Africa. The second chapter continues by giving a look at Islamic beliefs and practices, both from mortal and vampiric perspectives. The most interesting part here is a description of the Ashirra sect, a brotherhood of Islamic vampires who seek to redeem themselves. Very good for Storytellers and players alike, as this section is almost essential for understanding how and why the Ashirra work.<br />The next section is a bit of IC stuff, written by an Assamite vizier as he travels from al-Andalus across north Africa to Arabia and the Holy Land, and from there to Baghdad, Persia and finally disappearing in the east, killed by some unknown force. Think something like the vampiric equivalent to ibn Batutta. At the end are a bunch of profiles of NPCs he met along the way. Almost all of the NPCs are interesting and unique, and can easily be placed in a chronicle. The next chapter covers the various clans (all called by their Arabic names) in the Middle East, and things are quite different. As would be expected, the Assamites and Setites are dominant, but the Brujah, Nosferatu, Gangrel, Ravnos and Lasombra are also quite influencial. Indeed, all western clans (save the Tzimisce and Tremere; the Ventrue are also rare being represented only by a small Arabian bloodline) are represented to some degree, along with three bloodlines: the Salubri, Baali and Laibon.<br />Some of the alternate takes on the various clans are quite interesting. For instance, the conflict between the animalistic hunters and monsters of clan Nosferatu (called Mutasharid) and the peaceful Nosferatu who have adopted Islam (known as the Hajj). Indeed, the Hajj are one of the leading groups in the Ashirra. Or the Lasombra, many of whom are devout Muslims and who are treated with respect and honor. All in all, its a pretty cool section. In the end, it also gives some descriptions of Paths followed by the Ashirr and how they differ from western paths. For instance, Path of the Bedouin becomes Tariq el-Bedouin, and is focused more on living a simple, nomadic lifestyle than becoming an animal. Special attention is paid to the Path of Blood (Tariq el-Haqim) given the prominence of the Assamites in these regions.<br />Following this is the juicy chapter, chock full of everything you need to know to run a Cainite in the region. Aside from information on the different cultures and groups (such as Berbers, Moors, Kurds and so forth) and Arabic naming conventions, there are also some sample concepts and such. Some new Merits and Flaws, specific to the setting are given, along with new Traits and even a new Animalism power (used many by vampires to create animal ghouls out of animals that drink from isolated desert oasis). There is a great deal of information on Sihr, faith based blood magic used by the Hajj. A couple paths and rituals and not much else. Given that its specific to the Hajj and maybe a few Assamite sorcerers, I guess not too much detail is needed. And theres also some systemsfor situations Ashirra are likely to get into as well.<br />And then there is the next chapter, Damascus by Night, which gives an entire ready-to-run plot focusing on the secret corrutpion in the city of Damascus. The chapter gives a pretty nice amount of information about the city of Damascus, as well as the Ashirra in the city and how many of them have been subverted by the Baali. Character profiles of major characters are also given, so everything is already set up for you to run it. This ties in nicely with the closing chapter, which focuses on various supernatural threats that Ashirra are likely to face in the night. Information on mortal dangers (like crusaders and the Knights Templar and Islamic monster hunters) is presented, alongside bits about jackal-blooded Lupines (and other shapeshifters), wizards (primarily Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani, but also Knights Templar, Hebrew qabbalists and tribal shaman), ghosts, mummies, djinn and even mysterious eastern \\"Kindred\\" from the White Tiger Court...<br />Over all, this is an excellent book. I strongly recommend it to anyone intending to run a Dark Ages game, or even a game set in the Mid-East in general. The Ashirra sect supposedly survives to the modern era, though little information is given on it outside brief references in a couple other books. More information on the future of the Ashirra sect would have been appreciated. Nonetheless, this is an excellent book and well worth buying.uations Ashirra are likely to get into as well.<BR>And then there is the next chapter, Damascus by Night, which gives an entire ready-to-run plot focusing on the secret corrutpion in the city of Damascus. The chapter gives a pretty nice amount of information about the city of Damascus, as well as the Ashirra in the city and how many of them have been subverted by the Baali. Character profiles of major characters are also given, so everything is already set up for you to run it. This ties in nicely with the closing chapter, which focuses on various supernatural threats that Ashirra are likely to face in the night. Information on mortal dangers (like crusaders and the Knights Templar and Islamic monster hunters) is presented, alongside bits about jackal-blooded Lupines (and other shapeshifters), wizards (primarily Ahl-i-Batin and Taftani, but also Knights Templar, Hebrew qabbalists and tribal shaman), ghosts, mummies, djinn and even mysterious eastern \\"Kindred\\" from the White Tiger Court...<BR>Over all, this is an excellent book. I strongly recommend it to anyone intending to run a Dark Ages game, or even a game set in the Mid-East in general. The Ashirra sect supposedly survives to the modern era, though little information is given on it outside brief references in a couple other books. More information on the future of the Ashirra sect would have been appreciated. Nonetheless, this is an excellent book and well worth buying.	2002-11-29
US	48854119	R1YGPFD58UNKD4	1565044134	481935492	Dreamspeakers: Walkers in the Spirit World (Tradition Book Seven for Mage: The Ascension)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Still a Pretty Decent Book	Okay, so this book was written for second edition instead of revised. Nonetheless, it still is a pretty good source of information if you intend to run a Dreamspeaker, regardless of whether your game is second edition or revised.<br />The main story is of a Mohawk steelworker, Michael Skyhawk, who discovers he is a Shaman and is led through his Awakening. Throughout the book, his Awakening serves as an example of how Shamanism works. The first chapter gives us a rough idea of the historical traditions of various cultures within the Dreamspeaker Tradition: Australian Aborigines, African natives, followers of Voudon and Santeria, Native Americans (from North and South America), Pacific Islanders, Siberians, Mongols, Lapps and so forth. We then get to see the Dreamspeakers form as a Tradition during the Grand Convocation, and the exploitation of the Dreamspeakers homelands (by both Technocracy and Traditionalists alike) up into the modern era.<br />Following this is a really nice juicy section covering Shamanism in general. It gives the Shaman's journey, from his calling by the spirits onward. Great depth is given to how Dreamspeakers view (and respect) the Spirits, and there is a lot of useful metaphysical stuff here. There also are details on Dreamspeaker factions, such as the Contraries (sacred clowns), Red Spears (Native rights militants), Baruti (wandering storytellers), Keepers of the Sacred Fire (traditionalists who want to preserve their homelands) and Ghost Wheel Society (techno-shamans). We also get to see some areas of Dreamspeaker influence in the spirit worlds, including a couple Native American realms and a city that recreates Great Zimbabwe.<br />The next chapter continues by giving insight into the Dreamspeakers relations with others. Aside from mixed relations with the Traditions, Technocracy, Crafts (Bata'a and Kopa Loei), Nephandi and Maruaders, the Dreamspeakers also have relations (sometimes even alliances) with spirits, Shape-shifters and even the fae (Eshu, Nunnehi and Menehune anyway). The section on relationships with spirits (going down to detail the differences between spirits) is very interesting.<br />The closing section follows tradition by offering up some sample characters (a Voudon priestess, techno-shaman and psychologist who adopts Aboriginal healing techniques), some NPCs (including a Contrary who may be Coyote himself), different takes on the Spheres, common foci and some sample rotes. There is also some information here specific to Shamans, such as acquiring a Totem (owning a copy of Werewolf: the Apocalypse helps here), the special bond between a Shaman and a familar or animal companion and how to enter Maya. Finally it closes out with a final word on Shamanism and some sample reading and listening. I recommend you check most, if not all, of the recommended reading and listening, especially if you want to learn about RL Shamanism and indigenous traditions.<br />Over all, this is an excellent book for running Dreamspeakers (especially native or indigenous Dreamspeakers) or even animistic mages in general. Even if it needs to be re-worked a little, it provides a wealth of information for anyone who is willing to look at it. Certainly it was one of the best books written for second edition.Eshu, Nunnehi and Menehune anyway). The section on relationships with spirits (going down to detail the differences between spirits) is very interesting.<BR>The closing section follows tradition by offering up some sample characters (a Voudon priestess, techno-shaman and psychologist who adopts Aboriginal healing techniques), some NPCs (including a Contrary who may be Coyote himself), different takes on the Spheres, common foci and some sample rotes. There is also some information here specific to Shamans, such as acquiring a Totem (owning a copy of Werewolf: the Apocalypse helps here), the special bond between a Shaman and a familar or animal companion and how to enter Maya. Finally it closes out with a final word on Shamanism and some sample reading and listening. I recommend you check most, if not all, of the recommended reading and listening, especially if you want to learn about RL Shamanism and indigenous traditions.<BR>Over all, this is an excellent book for running Dreamspeakers (especially native or indigenous Dreamspeakers) or even animistic mages in general. Even if it needs to be re-worked a little, it provides a wealth of information for anyone who is willing to look at it. Certainly it was one of the best books written for second edition.	2002-11-29
US	48854119	RFAE8GD7MR6T1	1565044088	271382344	Dead Magic *OP	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Dead Cultures, Living Magic	This supplement for Mage is an excellent source book for diversifying your games. The main focus of this book is on &quot;dead&quot; magic: the forgotten magics of civilizations of yore. The book has lots of rotes, wonders and so forth, but the bulk of the book is about how these civilizations practiced magic, and how the Traditions (namely your players) can adapt it.<br />The first section covers the magic of sub-Saharan Africa, with a definate focus on western and southern Africa. Lots of details on the diversity of African culture (and a nice map too), along with how westerners (including most of the Traditions except maybe the Dreamspeakers) have marginalized African culture. Then we are given some sample African rotes, many focusing on fertility, healing and spirit magics, and some pretty nifty wonders. There are also some interesting supertnatural creatures and locations, in case you decide to run a game set in Africa.<br />Following this is a section on ancient Mesopotamian magic. While I wish they would have toned down the infernalism a bit, this was a pretty nice section. Alot of it revolved around the meta-plot too, tying it in with Hermetics rediscovering Mesopotamian magic. Alot of the Mesopotamian magic focuses on complex divinations and spirit controlling magics. There is also a bit devoted to adapting Mesopotamian magic to the modern Traditions. Although groups like the Hermetics and Verbena usually use these in their ancient forms, modern Traditions have some unique takes on these rotes. Very nice. There are also some Mesopotamian beings (including the Lamassu!).<br />The next chapter was one of the best, in my opinions, focusing on the bloody magics of Mexico and South America. WW is pretty direct and to the point, stating that the Mayas, Aztecs, Incas and other Native Americans here used human sacrifices and that their magics were not for the weak. A bit of this chapter is taken up by an explanation of the Mayan calendar (which probably could have been briefer). Regardless, the sample rotes (including things like turning into a jaguar, making obsidian almost unbreakable and even causing volcanic erruptions) are all pretty neat and nicely based off Aztec and Mayan mythology (and the Mayan calendar). Further detail is given to some Wonders and mystical locations (including the Andes). Pretty cool.<br />The next chapter focuses on classical Greece and Rome and their continuing influence on western magic. Everything from Plato to Greek mythology to Roman Hermeticism to &quot;enlightened science&quot; is explored. Its pretty cool if you want to incorporate Greco-Roman magic into your games. This section also has a lot of plot seeds, such as the start of the Ascension War, the &quot;Golden Race&quot; and the Oracle of Delphi, so player's might want to skip this. Some decent rotes, Wonders and mystical locations are given, along with some classic monsters. Pretty neat.<br />The closing chapter covered the magic of the Inuit and other people of the Arctic Circle. It was pretty decent, going into great details about shamanism and hunting magic in the far north. The rotes, Wonders and spirits given are all very good, and can easily be adapted into almost any shamanic paradigm. Over all, this was an excellent book. I would recommend that if you intend to use any of the cultures in here, you look through both &quot;Guide to the Traditions&quot; and any number of books on history, archaeology, mythology and/or anthropology as well. I already found quite a bit of the African, Aztec/Mayan/Incan and Inuit sections helpful for running all Dreamspeaker chronicles, and intend to use the Mesopotamia stuff in a &quot;Year of the Scarab&quot; centered game. I'm certain other STs will find this book equally useful.riefer). Regardless, the sample rotes (including things like turning into a jaguar, making obsidian almost unbreakable and even causing volcanic erruptions) are all pretty neat and nicely based off Aztec and Mayan mythology (and the Mayan calendar). Further detail is given to some Wonders and mystical locations (including the Andes). Pretty cool.<BR>The next chapter focuses on classical Greece and Rome and their continuing influence on western magic. Everything from Plato to Greek mythology to Roman Hermeticism to &quot;enlightened science&quot; is explored. Its pretty cool if you want to incorporate Greco-Roman magic into your games. This section also has a lot of plot seeds, such as the start of the Ascension War, the &quot;Golden Race&quot; and the Oracle of Delphi, so player's might want to skip this. Some decent rotes, Wonders and mystical locations are given, along with some classic monsters. Pretty neat.<BR>The closing chapter covered the magic of the Inuit and other people of the Arctic Circle. It was pretty decent, going into great details about shamanism and hunting magic in the far north. The rotes, Wonders and spirits given are all very good, and can easily be adapted into almost any shamanic paradigm. Over all, this was an excellent book. I would recommend that if you intend to use any of the cultures in here, you look through both &quot;Guide to the Traditions&quot; and any number of books on history, archaeology, mythology and/or anthropology as well. I already found quite a bit of the African, Aztec/Mayan/Incan and Inuit sections helpful for running all Dreamspeaker chronicles, and intend to use the Mesopotamia stuff in a &quot;Year of the Scarab&quot; centered game. I'm certain other STs will find this book equally useful.	2002-11-28
US	48854119	R3UNZB36PVECD	1565042719	590897060	Wind From The East (Vampire: The Dark Ages)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Great Book for the Dark Ages	Following on the steps of Wolves of the Sea comes this source book for adding Mongol vampires to your Dark Ages game. Although originally written for Vampire: the Dark Ages, it was so close to revised that there is no real need to change anything for Dark Ages: Vampire.<br />This is an excellent book, intended for both Cainites and Kuei-jin. After a nice little work of opening fiction, the book gives us some basic ideas of the theme, mood and the like, including a brief primer on Kuei-jin and the Middle Kingdom (helps to have Kindred of the East here). There is also a Mongolian lexicon, some recommended books, magazines (pull out those back issues of National Geographic), films (including Aleksander Nevsky! Woohoo!) and even websites. All useful if you want more info about the Mongols and their doings.<br />The next chapter is the good stuff, covering the history, geography and culture of the Mongols. Theres lots of juicy tidbits on mythology, food and drink and all that other stuff that better helps you understand the Mongols as an actual culture rather than as a \\"horde of barbarians\\". Brief notes are even made about various Mongol tribes! There is also a timeline of the Mongol invasion, and even a map of the Mongol empire, compared to some of its contemporaries. A good chunk of this covers Ghengis Khan, but theres other stuff as well. Beyond this, there is also some information on other empires such as Russia, Persia and China; all of whom are threatened by the Mongols.<br />The next chapter covers things from a vampiric perspective. A brief overview is given of all the Cainite clans (and some bloodlines) and how they react to the Mongols. Some clans, like the Assamites in Khwarazm and the Tzimisce in Russia find their territories threatened by the Mongol horde. Others, like Gangrel and Ravnos, find wandering with the Horde to be to their liking. Next we are given some notes on two other bloodlines exclusive to the Mongol empire. One is the Anda, a bloodline of Mongol and Central Asian Gangrel that has wandered the Steppe for milennia. The other, the Wu Zao, are forgotten Salubri that Salout abandonned in Asia.<br />Also in this Chapter are details on the Kuei-jin. The Kindred of the East have long claimed all of Asia as their domain and do not take kindly to outsiders, like the Anda, in their midst. This section covers the traditions and beliefs of the Black Tortoise Court, including some prominent corpse families and their interesting relations with the Hengeyokai and spirits of the earth. Following this is a chapter on mechanics and other juicy stuff. Some unique Animalism powers are given for the Anda, and some unique Mongol rites are given for the Black Tortoise Court. Also given are some new Merits and Flaws and a new path, focusing on Mongol concepts of honor and warfare. Some information is also given for combat and the like as well.<br />The book closes out with some pre-made characters, some of which are quite interesting like the yam courier and the wise woman. Some sample NPCs are given in the back as well. However, there is a definate focus on Cainites over Kuei-jin here.<br />All in all, this is an excellent source book for including Mongol characters. Enough stuff is given where you could even use this for playing other supernaturals like Mongol Dreamspeakers, Sons of Tengri, Hengeyokai, Shadow Lords, hsien, Eshu and who knows what else. The possibilities are really endless. If you want a historical game with Mongols, you really should get this book.and Central Asian Gangrel that has wandered the Steppe for milennia. The other, the Wu Zao, are forgotten Salubri that Salout abandonned in Asia.<BR>Also in this Chapter are details on the Kuei-jin. The Kindred of the East have long claimed all of Asia as their domain and do not take kindly to outsiders, like the Anda, in their midst. This section covers the traditions and beliefs of the Black Tortoise Court, including some prominent corpse families and their interesting relations with the Hengeyokai and spirits of the earth. Following this is a chapter on mechanics and other juicy stuff. Some unique Animalism powers are given for the Anda, and some unique Mongol rites are given for the Black Tortoise Court. Also given are some new Merits and Flaws and a new path, focusing on Mongol concepts of honor and warfare. Some information is also given for combat and the like as well.<BR>The book closes out with some pre-made characters, some of which are quite interesting like the yam courier and the wise woman. Some sample NPCs are given in the back as well. However, there is a definate focus on Cainites over Kuei-jin here.<BR>All in all, this is an excellent source book for including Mongol characters. Enough stuff is given where you could even use this for playing other supernaturals like Mongol Dreamspeakers, Sons of Tengri, Hengeyokai, Shadow Lords, hsien, Eshu and who knows what else. The possibilities are really endless. If you want a historical game with Mongols, you really should get this book.	2002-11-16
US	48854119	R37P3D6BMA1N4G	1565042786	43915024	Constantinople by Night (Vampire - the Dark Ages)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Bit Outdated But Still Excellent	Okay, this is an older book, intended for use in the original Vampire: the Dark Ages, but it still is an excellent source for use in a revised Dark Ages: Vampire game. Just mess with the time line a bit and adjust the NPC stats and your pretty much set. This book bascially covers the undead night life in Constantinople and the Byzantine Empire. Basically, Constantinople is ruled by an unholy trinity of ancient vampires (Michael the Toreador, the Dracon of the Tzimisce and Antonious the Ventrue), and is horribly mired in plots and conspiracies of the undead. The introduction gives you some basic information on life (and unlife) in Byzantium, and a few recommended sources which I strongly recommend you read if you want to learn anything about the Byzantine empire.<br />The next two chapters cover History and Geography, in that order. The section on history presents a (somewhat brief) overview of Byzantine history, including events involving the undead in the city of Constantinople. The timeline goes all the way up to 1204 AD, but the main setting is supposed to be 1197. However, as I said, storytellers can feel free to alter the setting or time line however they please (indeed, the history section even includes a side bar about alternative histories). The next chapter, geography, covers all the important (and interesting) areas of Constantinople, as well as some brief mention of Asia Minor, Greece, Crete, Maceadonia, Thessaly, Thrace, Bulgaria, the Balkans and the Aegean Sea.<br />The next chapter goes into politics and literally Byzantine alliances between the three major factions in Constantinople, as well as numerous minor factions. The main idea here is that each of the elders (Michael, the Dracon and Antonious) have created their own families, with smaller lineages pledging fealty to them. Hence, the major clans are the Michaelite Toreador, Antonian Ventrue and Draconian Tzimisce. Each smaller lineage owes loyalty to one of them, such as the Children of Judas (Setites) and Magnus Orthodox Lasombra, who owe their loyalty to the Michaelite Toreador. Numerous smaller factions (which are not lineage based) are also presented, such as the Inconnu and the Dream Circle.<br />The next chapter covers the undead denizens of the city, giving stats for many of them (including Micahel; fortunately no stats are given for the Dracon or Antonious) so you can add them as NPCs. Each clan is presented, along with the Baali, Salubri, Caitiff and even a Mage (who appearently has been embraced and become the Ravnos signature character by revised). Many of the characters are of high generation, so be warned. All of the characters are also provided with a note on their Future Fate as well. Following this are some plot ideas for STs, divided into three sections: the Son (stories for new players or characters not from Constantinople), the Father (the intrigue that grows as the Fourth Crusade approaches) or the Holy Ghost (mystery and the bizarre). Some of these plot ideas are actually pretty good too.<br />And finally, the book closes with a simple map of Constantinople. Personally, I think this would have been a bit more helpful in the section on Geography, but thats just me. Anyway, if you can get your hands on this book, go for it. With just a bit of re-working, you can easily squeeze it into any Dark Ages: Vampire game.s) and Magnus Orthodox Lasombra, who owe their loyalty to the Michaelite Toreador. Numerous smaller factions (which are not lineage based) are also presented, such as the Inconnu and the Dream Circle.<BR>The next chapter covers the undead denizens of the city, giving stats for many of them (including Micahel; fortunately no stats are given for the Dracon or Antonious) so you can add them as NPCs. Each clan is presented, along with the Baali, Salubri, Caitiff and even a Mage (who appearently has been embraced and become the Ravnos signature character by revised). Many of the characters are of high generation, so be warned. All of the characters are also provided with a note on their Future Fate as well. Following this are some plot ideas for STs, divided into three sections: the Son (stories for new players or characters not from Constantinople), the Father (the intrigue that grows as the Fourth Crusade approaches) or the Holy Ghost (mystery and the bizarre). Some of these plot ideas are actually pretty good too.<BR>And finally, the book closes with a simple map of Constantinople. Personally, I think this would have been a bit more helpful in the section on Geography, but thats just me. Anyway, if you can get your hands on this book, go for it. With just a bit of re-working, you can easily squeeze it into any Dark Ages: Vampire game.	2002-11-16
US	48854119	RM9TV15OKOC8W	1588462358	417564647	Mummy: The Resurrection Players Guide	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Well Worth the Extra Bucks	The core book for playing Mummies was excellent, so its hard to believe that there was anything they needed to improove upon. Nonetheless, they did. And it is all the better for it. This book expands on what was written, giving all sorts of details for fleshing out the Egyptian Amenti, as well as non-Egyptian Mummies. The book starts out with two chapters of fiction, giving players a better chance at understanding how to portray an Egyptian Mummy.<br />The next chapter gives some more juicy stuff for fleshing out the various splats and factions in Mummy. All of the Amenti splats (including the Udja-sen) are fleshed out, giving us their beliefs, practices, factions, weaknesses and strengths. Following that, we get some other minor factions for Mummies to join, from the mystics of the Unbound Scroll to the Spiders of the Sands, who seek to expand the Web of Faith. While not as big as, say, the Cult of Isis or the Eset-a, these factions are still pretty cool.<br />The following chapter is very similar, exploring the two non-Egyptian Mummies, the Capacocha (South American) and Wu T'ian (Chinese). After getting through the basics of what these non-Egyptian Mummies can, and can't, do, we are presented with two-page splats for both of them (four suyu for the Capacocha, and two incarnations for the Wu T'ian), followed by some expanded info on all of the splats, much in the manner of the Amenti splats in the previous chapter. Theres some pretty juicy things hinted at in this chapter as well, including the possibility of \\"Other\\" Mummies, such as bog mummies or the ice man.<br />The next chapter is more mechanical, giving us expansions of the backgrounds from the core book, and examples of how they can be reworked for Amenti, Capacocha and Wu T'ian. Theres also some stuff on concepts, nature and demeanor, a new background, aspects of rebirth, a new ability (Martial arts) and tons of new merits and flaws. Most are Amenti specific, but can work for others, while a good number are tied to other cultures. Unfortunately, they aren't grouped in any particular way. While we can figure out that things like \\"Andean Native\\" or \\"were-llama\\" are probably Capacocha traits, it wouldn't hurt to tell us that anyway. Finally, the chapter closes with new Hekau. Four are presented for the Capacocha (one for each suyu), while two are presented for Wu T'ian (yin and yang; one for each incarnation).<br />This ties in nicely with the next chapter, the legendary Greater Hekau. First it explains how the advanced Hekau work, and then we are presented with some examples. All of the Amenti Hekau are given several spells, going from level 6 to level 8. The next chapter gives some more stuff for running Mummies, talking about major themes such as faith, passion, duality and death. The concept of balance is explored, along with each of the Amenti splats. Even some stuff for the Wu T'ian and Capacocha is in this chapter. The chapter closes with a word on cross-over, which, conveniently enough, ties in with the next chapter.<br />Surprisingly, Chapter Seven handles cross-overs pretty well. We are told, in plain English, that Mummies don't know the various factions in the World of Darkness, which makes cross-overs that much more believable. We then get some brief notes for cross-over with Vampire (including Kindred of the East and Wu T'ian cross-overs), Werewolf, Mage, Hunter, Wraith and Changeling. Next we get details on the Cults of Life (the Children of Osiris, Cult of Isis, Ashukhi Corporation). Two new Cults of Life are given: the vampire bedouins of the Disciples of Anubis (from Cairo by Night) and the Islamic monster slayers of the Ikhwan al-Safa (presented in the Year of the Hunter). Some notes on personalized cults are also presented, as well as four \\"Heralds of Ma'at\\", examples of Mummy ideals.<br />The final chapter is kind of short, but pretty decent anyway. It gives some examples of \\"magical treasures\\" for Mummies. While stuff is given for Amenti, Capacochaand Wu T'ian, it seems like more items were given for Capacocha than any other groups. Some pretty interesting ideas, but nothing really jumped out at me. Nonetheless, it could be a useful chapter. All in all, though, the MPG is well worth the buy. It really lets you add some depth to any Mummy character you could want to run., it seems like more items were given for Capacocha than any other groups. Some pretty interesting ideas, but nothing really jumped out at me. Nonetheless, it could be a useful chapter. All in all, though, the MPG is well worth the buy. It really lets you add some depth to any Mummy character you could want to run.	2002-11-13
US	48854119	R16705D5RGJG87	1565042565	900137484	*OP Clanbook Assamite Revised Ed (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Long Needed Change for Clan Assamite	The Assamites, a clan of assassins hailing from Persia and Arabia, have long been characterized by negative stereotypes in the World of Darkness gamelines. The first edition clan book was filled with offensive remarks and stereotypes about Islamic culture and the Middle East. Clayton Oliver's revision of the clan was a very welcome change from all of that. The Assamites are detailed as being more or less like any other clan.<br />The first chapter opens with telling us everything that we have been told about the clan is a lie, created in part by the western clans, and in part by the Assamites need to remain secret. We are given an extensive history of the Assamite's role in Middle Eastern history, from ancient Mesopotamia, Persia, Babylon, Carthage, Greece and Assyria to Byzantine era. Great detail is given to the Crusades, the back story being that the Crusades shattered the Assamite's relation to the west. From then on, we get some brief views of Assamite activities during the Ottoman Empire, the British invasion of India, the formation of the Arab States, and finally the modern era.<br />The next chapter goes into detail concerning the Assamite's social structre. The main body of the clan, following an ancient Mesopotamian God-King Ur-Shulgi, is given great detail. With social ranks going from the Du'at (three leaders of the clan) to the Silsila (elder priest types) to the Fida'i (initiates to the clan). We also learn that there are three Assamite castes. The main caste, the warriors, are not the assassins that are always presented as Assamites. Indeed, the warriors were once judges and law enforcers, but slowly changed to warriors over time. And not all, or even most, are assassins. Indeed, they are body gaurds, soldiers, straegists, communications experts, technicians, smugglers, martial artists and bedouin lords. There are also two other castes. The sorcerers are blood magicians, drawing from ancient Hebrew, Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Arabian, Persian and Indian magics. They are just as potent and deadly as the Tremere. The other caste are Viziers, the scholars and artisans of the clan. Not only are they record keepers, scholars and historians, but also scientists, linguists, religious experts, artists, jewellers, calligraphers, storytellers, legal expets, journaliss, Bollywood producers, politicians and so forth. Each gets a write up, complete with advantages, weaknesses, clan disciplines and bloodlines, and even specific ranks and offices.<br />We are then presented with the Laws of Haqim, which unit the Assamite clan and guide them towards their goals. Political factions, from the loyalists, to those who want to break with the clan, to the Sabbat and Camarilla members, to those who follow other paths (like the Israeli Leopards of Zion, all female Furies of Erinyes and the elite hashashyin of the Web of Knives) are explored. We are also treated with steroetypes about the \\"foreign\\" clans and other creatures of the night. The chapter closes out with some details on unique Assamite disciplines and merits and flaws. Not only do we get unique multi-discipline powers, but also higher level Quietus powers, unique Celerity and Obfuscate powers, a vizier-specific Auspex power and the all new Assamite sorcery disicpline which draws on Mesopotamian and Persian blood magics.<br />And of course, the book closes out with nine ready made Assamite templates (three for each caste, and one for each faction), several signature characters (some with stats) and an Assamite specific character sheet. Some of the more interesting templates included the archaeologist, character assassin, prophet of caine and witch-hunter (cool). Naturally, the signature characters included Fatima al-Faqadi (the Assamite signature character), but it also includes some really neat ones like Mata Hari (THE Mata Hari), Janni (an Israeli Assamite), Tegyrius (leader of the Schism who once rode with Alexander the Great) and Nar-Sheptha (a Babylonian sorceress bound intoa series of CD-ROMS filled with magic lore), amongst others.<br />All in all, I think this book has been extremley useful for the vampire setting, getting rid of some extremely offensive and prejudiced views from earlier editions and making vampire games fit better into a Middle Eastern setting. If you want to be able to play an Assamite with any depth, this book is a much needed supplement. Easily the best of the Clan books.s of CD-ROMS filled with magic lore), amongst others.<BR>All in all, I think this book has been extremley useful for the vampire setting, getting rid of some extremely offensive and prejudiced views from earlier editions and making vampire games fit better into a Middle Eastern setting. If you want to be able to play an Assamite with any depth, this book is a much needed supplement. Easily the best of the Clan books.	2002-11-11
US	48854119	R2V0FE07URXZS1	158846203X	635732520	Mummy: The Resurrection (World of Darkness)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Year of the Scarab	In the spirit of Kindred of the East, this book is an add on for existing World of Darkness games. You need another core book (preferabley Vampire, Mage or Wraith for cross over use, but any of the games work), but fear not, because this has allowed the writers to add a whole bunch of juicer information into the pages.<br />Essentially, this game allows you to take on the role of a Mummy, just as the previous World of Darkness games put you in the role of other monsters. But these aren't the bandaged wrapped monsters of the cinema. Rather, they are more an amalgam of Boris Karlof's immortal mystic from the original Mummy and Egyptian mythological beings. These Mummies are immortal heros, blessed by Osiris and given the task of restoring balance to the world. As such, this is a much more hopeful tone when compared to, say, Vampire or Wraith, but that only makes the game that much more challenging. Mummies are made of a combination of a flawed mortal and an ancient Egyptian soul, so they are both modern and ancient at the same time. And they are also considerably less powerful than their ancient age would make you think. Therefore, these Mummies are not as unbalancing in cross overs as they might seem. Indeed, even the immortality thing isn't as big an advantage, because it does take considerable time to come back, plus Mummies do not have supernatural endurance on par with some of the other denizens of the World of Darkness.<br />The book is pretty straight forward. Mummies and their role in the World of Darkness (along with some great tips and ideas for better running Mummy games) are all described in great detail, including Osiris, Anubis, Ma'at, the Judges and various Cults of Life such as the followers of Isis and Osiris. There is a lot of usage of Egyptian and even Arabic words, but these only serve to add to the flavor and shouldn't confuse the reader overly much. Theres even a glossary of the major terms used, and some brief descriptions of Egyptian Gods and Goddesses. Plus theres the recommended reading, viewing and listening which give you some more points of reference for incorporating mummies, ancient Egypt and Middle Eastern culture into your games. And many of these sources can be found on Amazon.com, conveniently enough.<br />Like other denizens of the World of Darkness, the Mummies are divided into different splats, in this case based off aspects of the Egyptian soul (plus another one for \\"unaffiliated\\" mummies). Each of these splats are given full page write ups, which helps players get a handle on what motivates their characters. Each splat also specializes in a specific Hekau, ancient magics of Egypt such as alchemy or making ushabtis. These are given ratings from one to five, and work kind of like Vampire Disciplines or Mage Spheres, so players should grasp these pretty quickly. Furthermore, although Mummies only get a few new abilities, differing from those presented in the core book, Mummies also have a wealth of new backgrounds to help flesh them out, such as Ba, Ka and Companion, and even a handful of new merits and flaws.<br />As the first book in the \\"Year of the Scarab\\" series, Mummy also details the core setting for the game, Egypt and the lands of the Middle East, Africa and the Mediterranean. The histories of Egypt and Saudi Arabia are given, along with an extensive write up of Egypt's geography, from Luxor to Sinai. There are also some description Persia (Iran), Iraq, Kuwait, Kuwait, Israel and the Palestinean Territories, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Greece. Also, the Lands of the Dead (and beyond) are described, mainly from an Egyptian point of view, but fans of Wraith should be pleased.<br />The back of the book is also loaded with lots of juicy stuff for STs. Not only are there detailed notes for adding Mummies into a game, but there are also some other nasties, both for Mummy only games and for cross-overs. Corrupt \\"bane mummies\\", cannibalistic Egyptian cults, undead monsters and other servants of Aphosis and corruption are unique foes specifically for Mummies. Other supernaturals, such as the local Vampires (Assamites and Followers of Set), the walking dead, Wizards such as the Arabian Ahl-i-Batin and Persian Taftani, ghosts and other spirits, Djinn, shapeshifters (not only werewolves, but also werecrocodiles, werecats and even wereserpents) and monster hunters are all given, either as allies or antagonists, along with stats for various mortal animals native to the mid-east, like scorpions and camels. And then there are also other Mummies as well. Ancient Mummies who lived since the dyas of Egypt, non-Egyptian Mummies (created from Greek translations of the Egyptian ritual), Incan Mummies from the mountains of South America and immortal Taoist sages from China are all presented, with just enough for you to play them or incorporate them into your games.<br />All in all, this is an extremely useful book for STs and Players alike, whether you intend to run an all Mummy game or run a cross over game. Or even if you just want to add a Mummy or two into your game as NPCs. Even without Mummies, there is a wealth of information about Middle Eastern culture and settings provided in this book, with a specific emphasis on Egypt. If you run a Vampire game with lots of Assamites, or a Mage game focusing on Hermetic lore from ancient Egypt, you might find this game extremely useful, even without Mummies.er servants of Aphosis and corruption are unique foes specifically for Mummies. Other supernaturals, such as the local Vampires (Assamites and Followers of Set), the walking dead, Wizards such as the Arabian Ahl-i-Batin and Persian Taftani, ghosts and other spirits, Djinn, shapeshifters (not only werewolves, but also werecrocodiles, werecats and even wereserpents) and monster hunters are all given, either as allies or antagonists, along with stats for various mortal animals native to the mid-east, like scorpions and camels. And then there are also other Mummies as well. Ancient Mummies who lived since the dyas of Egypt, non-Egyptian Mummies (created from Greek translations of the Egyptian ritual), Incan Mummies from the mountains of South America and immortal Taoist sages from China are all presented, with just enough for you to play them or incorporate them into your games.<BR>All in all, this is an extremely useful book for STs and Players alike, whether you intend to run an all Mummy game or run a cross over game. Or even if you just want to add a Mummy or two into your game as NPCs. Even without Mummies, there is a wealth of information about Middle Eastern culture and settings provided in this book, with a specific emphasis on Egypt. If you run a Vampire game with lots of Assamites, or a Mage game focusing on Hermetic lore from ancient Egypt, you might find this game extremely useful, even without Mummies.	2002-11-11
US	48854119	R2FU05GCH4Q6M8	1588462048	501894397	*OP Clanbook Followers of Set Rev Ed (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Another Excellent Revision	Lets face it. The previous clan books were pretty [bad], so the Revised clan books have a lot to make up for. Well this one certainly does an excellent job of making the Followers of Set actually playable. After you read this book, you will actually be able to incorporate Setites into your games without disrupting it.<br />The opening fiction gives us plenty of hints that what we think about them might not be so accurate after all. And then we get the kicker. The first chapter about history is written by a skeptical Setite! Theres a heavy focus on Egypt, and it looks like the authors really did some homework here. It starts off in pre-dynastic times, with the conflict between Osiris and Set and continues throughout dynastic Egypt into the Persian invasion and Alexander's liberation of Egypt. From then on, we get some stuff on Carthage, Cleopatra, Roman north Africa, the Coptic period and Set's disappearence. Byzantine and Muslim Egypt, along with the Crusades in the Holy Land, are then explored, with lots of juicy little tidbits. It goes on to the Ottoman era and the slow spread into Europe (the \\"Dark Continent\\"). We finally get into the modern era, along with some hints at non-Egyptian Setites! And then we are left with a disturbing ending.<br />The next chapter is the meat, explaining the role of the Setites, Egyptian mythology and the Pah of Typhon-Set. We learn that the Setites are not base corrupters, but religious fanatics, servants of a dark and terrible god who offers freedom and scholars who seek to preserve forbidden lore. Definately a better motivation than undead pimps and drug lords. We get some hints for \\"Playing a God\\", a revision of the Path of Typhon (and the new Path of Sutekh), cult structure and some sample temples (mainly in northern Africa). Aside from the stereotypes of other clans and supernaturals, we also get to learn that the Setites are indeed not exclusively Egyptian. Aside from the orthodox cults, other ones exist, drawing from other cultures. We learn of the Norse Setites who revere the great serpent, the African Children of Damballah, the Sabbat's Serpents of Light who follow Voodoo and Santeria, the Shaivite Daitya of India and the Tlacique, ancient Aztec, Mayan and Incan vampires who now challenge the Sabbat.<br />The chapter closes out with some mechanical stuff. New knowledge called Setite Lore, which draws upon the forbidden lore from ancient Egypt, and some new discipline powers. We get higher level Serpentis powers, along with some Obfuscate, Presence and multi-discipline powers. Plus we finally get a look at the hoary magics of ancient Egypt. The Setites can boast blood magicians just as potent as the Tremere. And not only are there Egyptian blood magics, but also Hindu magics of the Daitya, voodoo and santeria magics from Serpents of Light and the sacrificial magics of Mesoamerica used by the Tlacique.<br />And of course, it closes out with the standard character templates, signature characters and a Setite specific character sheets. Surprisingly, the character templates are all pretty unique and original, a rarity for a clan book. Things like prophetic artist, business man who sells cheap Egyptian-style art, psychology, techno-mystic and gladiator. Plus we get the non-standard ones: Native rights activist Tlacique, voodoo queen Serpent of Light and debunking scientist Daitya. Pretty cool actually. The signature characters include a brood of Setites who repair other's reputations, as well as the signature character Hesha Ruhadze. More interesting, for me anyway, was the Daitya \\"devil-Brahmin\\" Sundervere. From what I've been told, he's going to become a major signature character in the upcoming Victorian Era Vampire. Regardless, hes a cool character.<br />Check out this book if you want to make Setites with any real depth to them. Its an excellent clan book, and well worth the buy. Afterwards, you will actually be able to run them in your chronicles. The section on Egyptian history was extremely well written, even without the Setites, plus the new non-western bloodlines like the Children of Damballah, Daita and Tlacique were all neat additions too. Check out Blood Sacrifice for more on non-western blood magicians (especially Setites).ell written, even without the Setites, plus the new non-western bloodlines like the Children of Damballah, Daita and Tlacique were all neat additions too. Check out Blood Sacrifice for more on non-western blood magicians (especially Setites).	2002-11-11
US	48854119	R1LC32P77BJI3G	0140158588	736194568	Ecstasies: Deciphering the Witches' Sabbath	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Shamanism In Europe	Yes, Ginzburg actually contends that the so-called &quot;witches&quot; of old Europe were in fact remanents of the old Shamanic cultures of Europe, and he does make an excellent arguement for it. I will admit, I do agree with him on some points. Shamanism is a universal phenomena, and yet (with the notable exception of the Lapps in Scandinavia and a few scattered myths and legends like Orpheus and Odin) Shamanism seems to have all but been absent in Europe, and this has always puzzled me. Certainly, had Shamanism been widespread in Europe, it probably would have survived well into the Christian era, just as it has in other parts of the world. As such, Ginzburg may be right on the money about the witch hunts and such. Regardless of your thoughts on the subject, this remains an excellent book. And if you like it, he has another book, entitled &quot;Night Battles&quot; about a community of Shaman in northern Italy.	2002-10-15
US	48854119	RGO51QCT3CRWN	019283570X	729198005	The Kalevala (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	78	82	N	N	Shamanic Epic of the North	The Kalevala is one of the greatest (and yet largely unknown) epic poems of all times. Although relatively young when compared to the works of Homer and so forth, this Finnish epic draws deep into Finland's Shamanic heritage and is indeed based off these old myths and legends. It concerns the adventures of Vainamoinen the wise Shaman, his companion Ilmarinen the smith and the bold, young Lemminkainen. Those who have studied Shamanism will already see a Shamanic aspect in the association between Vainamoien and Ilmarinen, for in many cultures smiths and Shamans are linked together. There are many more Shamanic archetypes and beliefs found throughout this book, such as a bear sacrifice which is startlingly similar to that observed amongst the Ainu and Lapps of recent times. This book, perhaps the only real direct source of Finnish mythology and religion, explores an oft neglected culture. After all, any school child can tell you of the myths of the Greeks, Romans or Germanic peoples, yet the mythology and heroes of Finland have remained largely unknown. A real pity as this epic is filled with deciet, trechery and heroism which easily could stand beside the works of Homer, Virgil or Valmiki. This translation, perhaps the best available, both for the price and in terms of being generally accessable, is certainly worth owning. Whether you are interested in mythology, history, anthropology, Finland or just like a good story, there is bound to be something in this book which appeals to you.	2002-10-15
US	48854119	R1ZLIR80ZMPJL7	0062503731	74742025	The Way of the Shaman	Books	4	44	53	N	N	I'm Divided On This Book	It really would be more fair of me to give this book three and a half stars, but it doesn't work that way so I'll leave it at four. Anyway, I must admit that I am of two different mind concerning this book. Harner, who has indeed studied Shamanism amongst various indigenous peoples such as the Jivaro of Ecuador, certainly does know his stuff. I will grant him that. However, in this book he strips it down to it's core, removing many of the cultural trappings, in order to take the reader into the world of the Shaman. This is not a book about Siberian, Native American, Aboriginal, African, Voudon or any other form of Shamanism. Instead, it focuses on Harner's \\"Core Shamanism\\" and even attempts to instruct the reader on how to become a Shaman. This presents some serious questions for us. First of all, is this cultural piracy? Shamanism is an old tradition, and can be found among many traditions. No one people, however, have a monopoly on Shamanism. After all, the Shamanic traditions of, say, the Yakuts, Chuckchi and Buryat are just as ancient and valid of those of the Pygmies, Bushmen or Yanomami. Harner seems to be very aware of this and tries not to attach his Shamanic tradition to that of any one particular culture. And certainly more recent traditions do draw from Shamanic background. Voudon and Santeria, as well as certain movements amongst the Native Americans and Australian Aborigines illustrate this. Why shouldn't westerners find a tradition that is acceptable to them? In the end, the reader needs to come to his own conclusions on these issues before he reads through this book. After all, it is a book instructing the reader in Harner's Core Shamanism. I certainly would recommend it to people with an interest in Shamanism and/or Neo-Shamanism, whether from an anthropologic perspective or from a \\"New Age\\" perspective. Others, however, might be disappointed or even offended in this book. It all depends on your views I suppose. The best I can say is buyer beware.	2002-10-15
US	48854119	R1VWHJH0326VAC	0691017794	425347027	Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy (Bollinger Series, No. 76)	Books	5	122	124	N	N	The Definitive Classic on Shamanism	This book is the ultimate book for understanding the beliefs and practices of Shamanism, written by one of the world's foremost experts on religion and sociology. I cannot stress to you enough how thoroughly Eliade manages to cover the subject. A good portion of the book focuses on the Shamanic traditions of Siberia and Central Asia, the heartlands of Shamanism. Amongst the Mongols, Yakut, Chuckchi, Saami (Lapps) and other people of that region Shamanism was first observed, and is stil practiced today in many regions. Eliade goes into great depth about the beliefs and symbolism, about the clothing and ornamentation, about the meaning of ritual tools and amulets and much more. Everything from the axis mundi to ecstasy and trance states to helper spirits to Shamanic ideas of death and illness is covered in superb detail. But Eliade goes far beyond a simple survey of Shamanic beliefs and practices, almost literally taking you into the world of the Shaman. After reading this book, you will understand the Shamanic mindset and world view far more than you ever thought. And, as I said, Eliade goes far beyond the traditional forms of Shamanism in Siberia and Central Asia. In this encyclopedic work, Eliade explores the Shamanic traditions of the Americas (North and South), Australia, Indonesia, Oceania, Tibet, China and beyond. Even the Shamanic traditions of the ancient Indo-Euorpeans, such as the Greek myth of Orpheus, Persian views of the after world and the Germanic God Odin, are given treatment. This book is very lengthy, well written, extensivily bibliographed and filled with detailed accounts and accurate information on virtually all facets of Shamanism. I cannot recommend this book enough. Even after all these years, \\"Shamanism\\" remains perhaps the definitive book on Shamanic beliefs and thought. To truely understand Shamanism and its role in Siberia/Central Asia, you must read this book.	2002-10-15
US	48854119	R23TE789XYJZRP	0801843863	291132606	The Night Battles: Witchcraft & Agrarian Cults in the Sixteenth & Seventeenth Centuries	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Northern Italian Shamanism	This is not Ginzburgs only book on Shamanism. He also covers the subject in his book &quot;Ecstasies&quot;. Nonetheless, this is a superb book. In it, he deals with a group of men in northern Italy who believed that their souls left their bodies while they slept to do battle with malignant forces. However, he does not view this as either a hard-line skeptic or a muddle headed New Ager. He approaches it as a historian and treats it no different from any other subject, thus creating an unbiased account of what happened. And what he constucts is an account of shamanism and witch trials in a northern Italian village. This is a fascinating account, and certainly well worth the read. If you appreciate this book, then I strongly recommend you check out &quot;Ecstasies&quot;, his other book on European Shamanism and the witch-hunts.	2002-10-15
US	48854119	R1K6CC0DY7ED2N	0939680572	426021718	Crying for a Dream: The World Through Native American Eyes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Voices and Pictures from Native America	This is an excellent book on the subject of Native Americans. This book is filled with beautiful photographs and significant qoutes from various Native Americans, as well as brief descriptions of Native American history up to the present day. There is a very strong emphasis on various religious ceremonies such as the Sweat Lodge and Visionquest. Certain groups, namely the Sioux, Navajo (Dine) and Pueblos, are focused in on. All in all, however, this is an excellent book, more emotional and intuitive than anything else. Hopefully you'll be as moved by it as I was.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R18HOZT5XP7H44	0813333873	74791928	A War Of Witches: A Journey Into The Underworld Of The Contemporary Aztecs	Books	5	3	6	N	N	If It Has Aztecs In It, It Must Be Good!	This is an excellent book, written by a legitimate anthropologist. During his stay in Mexico, Timothy Knab learned from an old curandera, a wise woman or healer of sorts, who springs from a tradition of fusing Native American shamanism of the Aztecs with the mysticism of the Catholic Church brought over by the Spaniards. This is an excellent book, showing the modern day Aztecs and their religious beliefs from the perspective of a westerner. An excellent read, even if you know almost nothing about the Aztecs.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R31P3GUIGL159H	0892813555	615080714	Voices of the First Day: Awakening in the Aboriginal Dreamtime	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good Reading	A great resource for those interesting in the culture of the Australian Aborigines, this book has a very strong focus on the religion, shamanism and spirituality which is so central to indigenous culture. Lawlor pays alot of attention to the kin relations, totems, ancestors, initiation rites and the Dreamtime. Anyone with some interest in the indigenous people of Australia should check this book out. There are only a couple of flaws with this book. One, is that it goes into great detail about traditional Aboriginal beliefs without paying attention to modern day continuation and adaptation of Aboriginal beliefs. Another is that Australia is so large and diverse that its hard to make any generalization about Aboriginal culture. However, these are only minor issues. The book itself is great.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R3JH7UKC3YWLBQ	0803283598	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux	Books	5	80	82	N	N	One of the Best Books I've Read	This is the biography of Black Elk, a wichasha wakon (priest) of the Oglala Sioux, as recorded by John Neihardt. This is not some cheesy new age fiction nor is it a dry documentary told from a western view point. This is the actual life story of a holy man and goes into great detail about his visions. From his words we are able to catch a glimpse of Native American religion and spirituality on the Great Plains as it was in the late 1800s/early 1900s. This stands out as one of the greatest works on Native American religion to date. I highly rocemmend that ANYONE read this book.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R1MALOG6ER0DHR	0062508687	4502675	Carnival of the Spirit: Seasonal Celebrations and Rites of Passage	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spirits and Celebrations	I'm kind of mad this book is out-of-print since I read it once at a library and haven't been able to find it since. This book is filled with anecdotes and spiritual quests, as well as a large selection of spiritual traditions celebrated throughout the world. This book gives you a brief glimpse at various indigenous holidays throughout the world. Worth picking up if you find it by some miracle.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	RLR8EP8HZP8U4	0874777801	727099927	Sangoma	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Old Meets New	Another interesting book on indigenous cultures, this book tells the story of a westerner who underwent the rituals to become a Sangoma, a Zulu medicine man. What makes this excellent is that it is easy to understand the religion of the Zulu because it is filtered through a western view yet still understood. If you enjoyed this book, I also suggest that you check out Malidoma Patrice Some's &quot;Of Water and the Spirit&quot; as well.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	RRHLCYJGG8ZAG	0877734062	876187800	Dreamtime and Inner Space: The World of the Shaman	Books	5	26	28	N	N	THE Book on Shamanism	I cannot emphasize it enough, this is one of the most definitive books on shamanism available to the public at large. This book goes into extensive details about the practices and rites of Shamanism. The author writes about the indigenous religions of societies from North and South America, Africa, Australia, Indonesia, Southeast Asia, Siberia, Polynesia and Nepal. I strongly recommend this book.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	RJOK2ABTGTPN6	0297165771	95440930	Pre-Columbian American Religions: The Weidenfeld & Nicolson History of Religion Series	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pre-Columbian American Religions: The Title Says It All	This book, part of the Holt &quot;History of Religion&quot; series, is actually more like a combination of four seperate books combined into one. The first part, written by Walter Krickeberg, deals with the religions of ancient Mesoamerica in chronological order, starting with the Zacatenco and Ticoman cultures and moving on to the more familar Aztecs, Zapotecs and Maya. This is an excellent guide to various Mesoamerican myths and legends along with religious practices, some of which are still practiced by Native American Nations in Mexico today. The only problem in this part comes from the fact that much of the material on the older empires comes from speculation about the religious significance of archaeological finds. However, it is still worth reading. Hermann Trimborn wrote the next part, which covers both the kingdoms of southern Central America (about everything south of the Maya) and the Andean empires. This is quite a feat since the cultures are so diverse and, when covering the Andes, he again uses speculation for some of the empires that died out before European contact. Nonetheless, the material on the Inca and Central American Indians was excellent and well worth the read. Werner Muller wrote the section on North American religions, but here focuses on the religions as they existed BEFORE European influence and ignored nations and regions where we know little of the religions before contact (including the Great Plains). First he gives us a look at the shamanism of the subarctic people in Canada--the Athapaskans and Algonquins. Then we see the ceremonies of the Delaware and Algonquin of the East coast, followed by the visionquests of the Great Lakes Algonquin (which mirror those of the nations on the Great Plains). Next we are given a look at the legends of the Iroquis, the theology of the Zuni and finally, the religions of various California nations. The last section of the book was written by Otto Zerries and covered all the nations of the Carribean and South America (excluding the Andes). Again, we are given a diverse lot of cultures ranging from Amazonian natives to the hunter-gatherers of Tierra del Fuego. Nonetheless, he does an excellent job of tying together the cultures based upon similar concepts such as ancestor worship, shamanism, culture heroes and vegetation deities. While slightly dated, this is still a pretty good look at the religions of the American supercontinent as they existed before European contact.d South America (excluding the Andes). Again, we are given a diverse lot of cultures ranging from Amazonian natives to the hunter-gatherers of Tierra del Fuego. Nonetheless, he does an excellent job of tying together the cultures based upon similar concepts such as ancestor worship, shamanism, culture heroes and vegetation deities. While slightly dated, this is still a pretty good look at the religions of the American supercontinent as they existed before European contact.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R292NPU5M66RVN	082902459X	740972875	Shamans of the 20th Century (Frontiers of Consciousness)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Shamans in the Modern World	When most people speak of Shamanism, they tend to speak of it as being something of the past. This book shows that indigenous religions are very much alive, and being practiced around the world. Half of this book goes into the proccess of defining what shamanism is and examining the initiation of shaman and the healing practices of shaman. The author is very knowledgable on Asian shamanism in particular from what I saw. The other half of the book, which particularly caught my eyes, details interviews and biographies of modern day shaman. We are given a look at various traditional shaman who practice in the modern world, including David Kaonohiokala Bray (a Hawai'ian Kahuna), Vusamazulu Credo Mutwa (a Zulu Sangoma), Usha Devi Rudola (an Indian mystic), the Dahli Lama's oracle and Max Beauvior (a Voudon Hougan). We also get a look at more unusual shaman, including TV entertainer shaman from Korea, three city shaman from Southeast Asia, a shaman/lawyer and a shaman/director. All of these interviews give some a great deal of insight to indigenous spirituality.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R24BIVJKEEM2OY	0435940023	522641535	Introduction to African Religion (African Writers Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Great Guide to African Religion South of the Sahara	If you have ever wanted to know about the religions of Africa in general, this is the book for you. This is sort of the beginners guide to African religions and spirituality. Its worth noting that this book focuses on the religions native to Africa, but does give some brief mention of Islam and Christianity as well as the role that other religions play in Africa today. Mbiti certainly knows what he is talking about, and gives us a overviews of some of the common themes and ideas that are widespread in African religion, and the ceremonies and customs that are still present in Africa. And, as he points out, almost all African religions are monotheistic. However, the part which I liked the most was the section of African proverbs at the end. If you would like to learn more about African religion, I suggest that you look at this book.	2000-11-06
US	48854119	R3I3QSDIOR4SPA	1567181880	425460945	Hawaiian Magic & Spirituality	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A Nice Introduction to Polynesian Religion	While this book was aimed at the New Age audiance, it is an excellent introduction to classical Polynesian shamanism in Hawaii. There is alot of information on the lunar calendar, the various deities, holy places and objects, symbolism, the Menehune and other important aspects of Hawaiian spirituality. I strongly recommend that anyone with an interest in Hawaiian religion or Huna look at this book.	2000-11-05
