US	48870045	R13FUHIL23E0IS	0765348918	356466696	The Challenge	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good ending	In the beginning, Tessa is a smart, Secret Service bodyguard for the President.  In the process of protecting the President, she is pulled through time to the future, where the future United States of North America needs her to be their Champion in the Challenge.  Earth is heavily, heavily, polluted, and by succeeding in the Challenge, Earth can join the Federation, and acquire the ability to get Earth's pollution cleaned up.   <br /> <br />The Challenge involves the use of psi-abilities, which are latent in every person.  To train Tessa for the Challenge, Kahn from Rystan is assigned to her.  According to the manual, psi-abilities in men are trained through combat, women's through sexual frustration. <br /> <br />The training part was the part I liked the least.  Strong tough woman forced to wear a see-through outfit, sexually frustrated against her will, forced to act as a weak, submissive Rystan woman who wants only to cook and clean for the men. I didn't like it, it was so out of step with how Tess is, and how the beginning of the story was.  The training part was like a kind of sexual humiliation that seemed over-the-top, like something from the '70's victimized heroine plots.  In this part, Kahn is a clueless sexist jerk.  He thinks, Tessa's a woman, why isn't she responding to the sexual frustration like the manual says she should?  Hmm, Kahn, you're supposed to be a smart trainer and you don't even realize you have a woman warrior on your hands? <br /> <br />Fortunately, Tessa is resourceful and soon has everything heading in the right direction, from befriending influential aliens to psi-fighting.  In particular, her financial dealings in this new Federation are absolutely amazing and hilarious.   <br /> <br />The ending of the story was great.  It was hopeful, happy, and overall, the storytelling was strong.  The non-training part of the book was excellent, and for that alone I give it four stars.	2005-06-08
US	48870045	RTPGRM5IYED86	0765352648	162729847	Warprize (The Chronicles of the Warlands, Book 1)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Excellent	This was really, really excellent, the book was amazing.  This story takes place on a fantasy world, with medieval-type societies.  Xylara, daughter of the former King of Xy, is courageous and kind and uses her skill with healing (the herbs/splint/knife type of healing) to help those in need.  The current King of Xy is her stepbrother and he hates her deeply. The kingdom is at war with the Firelanders, and Xylara takes her healing oaths seriously, even healing Firelander prisoners. <br /> <br />Word of Xylara has reached the Warlord of the Firelanders, and when the Warlord defeats the Xyrian army, he demands their allegiance and Xylara as his Warprize.  The King of Xy tells Xylara that she is to be the Warlord's slave.  Xylara's love for her people sees her joining the enemy camp as the Warprize. <br /> <br />There's a culture clash, assasination plots, fighting, lots of new friends, and a strong love story.  The secondary characters are funny and real, and the story is very heartwarming.  Xylara is strong, gentle, and smart.  The Warlord is strong, honourable and considerate (that is,when he's not beheading people who insult Xylara). As the weeks pass in the Firelander's military camp, Xylara overturns the Firelander's beliefs on healing and they come to love her.  However, someone is trying to kill her and although she is treated well by the Warlord, she believes she has no status as her Warprize.  <br /> <br />My favourite part was Xylara's revelation of what a Warprize really was.  This is the first of a trilogy about Xylara and the Warlord.  I have read every Tor paranormal romance, and this story beats the others hands down.	2005-06-08
US	48870045	R3E034Z68VJWFM	0312931158	296410691	The Rogue (Liar's Club, Book 5)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Surprises	Ethan Damont is an ornamental gambler, making his living by fleecing aristocrats of their money.  A group of Crown spies, called the Liars, try to recruit Ethan to spy on Lord Maywell, a suspected French spy.  Lord Maywell, in turn, wants Ethan to spy for the French.  To make things worse, each side wants Ethan to be a double spy for each other.  In the middle of it all is Lady Jane, Lord Maywell's niece and a famous heiress.  Lady Jane is the only person who trusts Ethan, and she has some very interesting surprises up her sleeve, even as Ethan tries to save her from himself. <br /> <br />I have enjoyed every book in this \\"Liars\\" series, and this story was excellent.  With the Liars books, the plots are always fresh and unexpected, the characters real and believable, and the stories are top-notch.  Ethan was a realistic alienated, gambling hanger-on of society, never fitting in, yet always welcome to aristocratic homes.  Lady Jane appeared a regular society debutante, but as the story progresses, you see how strong and funny she really is.  Lady Jane's mother was particularly entertaining.  The supporting cast were all intersting and humorous.  If you like regency romances, I highly recommend this book.	2005-06-01
US	48870045	RCUOD3CAMYN42	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent as always	This is the latest in a series of vampire mystery romances (using the term loosely).  Sookie Stackhouse is a blonde, lowly-educated, telepathic barmaid.  She's also reluctantly involved with the werewolves, shifters, fairies, witches and vampires near her rural Southern home.  Her brother has been turned into a werepanther and is suspected of being a serial killer, so Sookie has to find the real killer before her brother is falsely accused.  Meanwhile, a sniper is out to kill the shifters, people close to her are injured, her house needs extensive repairs, and all she really wants to do is pay her bills.  Oh, and there's a were succession fight, several new vampires, and her first love vampire Bill shows up again... <br /> <br />Some reviewers have expressed a dislike of the paranormal men who seem to be attracted to Sookie.  To me it all seemed very logical.  We know Sookie is pretty, blonde and attractively built.  However, normal human men shun her because she's \\"crazy\\".  The paranormal men know she's very, very special and that's what's so attractive about her.  Alcide (werewolf) and Calvin (werepanther) don't want to marry another werewolf and regional werepanther, respectively.  They're both attracted to Sookie because she's not from their communities, yet she knows about them (not to mention she's nice and smells good...)  Bill and Eric (vampires) both want her, Bill as her ex and Eric because there's something about Sookie he just can't resist (perhaps because she resists him?).  Quinn (can't tell you what he is, it'd be a spoiler) likes her because she's smart, brave and tastes good.  Sam (shifter) has worked with her for more than 3 years, and he's always been attracted to her.  So to me, it seems like of logical.  She's really pretty, she knows that werewolves, shifters, etc. exist, her blood tastes special, she's valiant and loyal, and she's special in her own way. <br /> <br />By the way, Sookie doesn't get tangled up with any of her admirers in this book, she's nice and single.	2005-05-06
US	48870045	R3HU3RVFB4IIAS	0345443578	528176152	A Stroke of Midnight (Meredith Gentry, Book 4)	Books	5	6	18	N	N	packed with action	This is the fourth book in the Merry Gentry series, so I'd advise you start with the first book.  The series is about an American faerie princess, born mortal and therefore ostracized, who comes into her power and is now in competition for the throne.  The rest of the royal family is quite sadistic, so she's the only hope for a good court. Slowly, she gains new powers, and uses her good heart, smart political wiles and newfound magical powers to protect her people and restore the land of faerie. <br /> <br />In this book, Merry and her guards discover a murdered fey and photographer inside the faerie mound.  The Queen puts Merry in charge of the investigation, allowing Merry to call the human police in.  Meanwhile, there is an assination attempt, more unexpected (some explosive) magic to contend with, a seriously insulted demi-fey queen, a few new guards, including women to contend with, and the Queen being her usual sadistic self.  I thought the author showed a lot of changes to Merry's guard, including how some were changing, and the new ones got a lot of screen time. <br /> <br />If you like Merry Gentry series, you'll love this book.  There was so much action in this book, the book only covered one day in the Unseelie courts, the day right after Seduced By Moonlight. The visits to the Seelie and Goblin courts will be the next book(s).  As usual, there is a lot of sexual activity, and it all seemed to have a purpose, either Goddess-fertility-land-related, incidentally showing the Queen's Ravens how her magic works, or saying goodbye to someone.  In this book you see her slowly winning over the court, even as the Queen seems increasingly unhinged and scary.  A lot of magic and plotting happens, but Merry of course, is only figuring things out slowly, so don't expect to understand everything the first time you read it.  While this fourth book doesn't zip the plot like Kiss of Shadows, I really enjoyed the character development and how Merry was winning over peoplewho didn't want her on the throne, either individually or from the wondrous rumours about her magic.	2005-04-15
US	48870045	R3R487D8LHPUNG	0505526263	723579811	Tiger Eye (Dirk & Steele, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Totally amazing	This book was just amazing.  Dela has paranormal powers, and belongs to an \\"agency\\" of people with similar powers who do undercover rescue para-military work, etc.  While in Beijing, she opens a box and finds herself the owner of Hari, a two-thousand-year-old immortal weretiger love slave.  Being an honourable and compassionate woman, she soon wins him over.  Pursued by evil people and scary wizards, the two return to the US, where the military-trained paranormal powers of her agency join up to fight back. <br /> <br />Dela was great, Hari was a total dreamboat, and every shapeshifter and paranormal talented person introduced in this book leave me anxious to read future books.  The plot of enslaved immortal (like Fantasy Lover by Sherrilyn Kenyon), heroine with knives strapped to her thighs (like Anita Blake by Laurell Hamilton), agency of tough men (like Cherry Adair's series), shapeshifting community (like Eileen's Wilk's Danger series), paranormal powers (like Christine Feehan's Game series), and overall fantastic plot and writing made this an amazing read.  There's smart dialogue, mystery, intruiging supporting cast, and lots of action.  I really, really recommend this book.	2005-03-27
US	48870045	RYXC9MEWJTMH3	0060091290	575112977	Secrets of a Summer Night (The Wallflowers, Book 1)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	my favourite Kleypas book so far	The plot is excellently summed up elsewhere, so I won't go deeply into it.  Beautiful Annabelle is really poor, and at the end of her fourth season.  The male members of the ton don't want to marry her as she's too poor, so they're all circling, waiting for her to weaken and become someone's mistress. Simon Hunt has wanted her for years, and he's determined to get her as his mistress.   <br /> <br />While the issues of poverty and desperation are in many regency romances, this one was particularly moving because of how it affects Annabelle's mother.  Never, in the thousands of romances I've read, have I ever read of a genteel mother doing anything so desperate for her family.  It really struck me, this dark side of genteel poverty.  It made Annabelle's resolve to marry well very realistic and selfless, and my admiration for her grew. <br /> <br />As to characters, I really liked them all.  This was one of the very few romances I've read where the heroine had real friends, each one interesting and supportive.  Generally, heroines are isolated, either with no friends, or only friends who are relatives or servants, (so that heroines can more easily get into trouble from which the hero can rescue her (like Again This Magic in which the heroine's only friends were her family and the housekeeper).  In this book, I found the girls' antics hilarious and really liked them all.  I look forward to reading more about the girls in the next books in this series. <br /> <br />I like regencies with a really a good romance, characters I can believe in and regency-accurate rules, so I was very happy with the plot.  Unlike some other reviewers, I don't require a mystery or thriller to supplement a good romantic regency plot. <br /> <br />I will definitely start collecting this author's books.  I read her books as a teenager, but find that her latest offerings are even better.	2005-01-05
US	48870045	R19XK11WZXHFFH	0765348896	521603903	Shifting Love (The Foundation, Book 1)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	good but not to my taste	This book has three strong themes:  shape-shifting, a Da-Vinci-Code-secret society out to save humanity, and a journey to self-discovery theme. <br /> <br />This was a good book.  Basically, there's a \\"Foundation\\" of shapeshifters throughout time who try to quietly save humanity, and they do so in different ways. One way is to \\"save\\" bitter, cold people, who may one day be playing important roles, by making them fall in love with someone from the Foundation who teaches them the right path/how to love again.   <br /> <br />That's where the heroine Magdelena comes in.  Her assignment this time is to \\"save\\" Julian, a powerful man who is unknowingly being groomed for an important role.  She has to make him fall in love for her, and learn to love again.  Of course, they fall in love, and there's another handsome shapeshifter in the picture. <br /> <br />Okay, it was a good book, but it wasn't for me. First of all, I like to read paranormal for the sheer magic and edginess (think Sherrilyn Kenyon or Laurell K. Hamilton).  This book was really sentimental. The kind of book that's about a person's journey to self-discovery.  Like the movie \\"Under the Tuscan Sun\\", which I wouldn't touch with a long stick.  There was a lot of introspection, and very little action or excitement.  Secondly, I'm not into the Christian overtones (secret society out to serve in the misunderstood name of biblical Magdalene).  Third, I didn't like the idea of teaching men to love other women by sleeping with them then leaving them. The overlay of religious tones, public service and sexual education reminded me of the Kushiel trilogy by Jaqueline Carey, except that it didn't work for me in this modern setting book. I didn't like the idea of the heroine sleeping with these men over the last fourteen years, because someone told her to do so in the name of love/service. <br /> <br />So if you like journey-to-self-discovery themes like \\"Under the Tuscan Sun\\" or Nora Roberts books, or you liked books likethe \\"Da Vinci Code\\" (which I haven't read, but apparently there are similar themes) or you don't mind the love-'em-and-leave-'em approach, then this one may be for you. <br /> <br />On the other hand, if this is a sample of what Tor's new paranormal romance line is going to be like, it's definitely better written than Harlequin's Bombshell series, which also features paranormal elements and some action. <br />	2004-11-17
US	48870045	R2MH8B9YQ70Y1K	0553587072	990987533	Industrial Magic (Women of the Otherworld)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	fantastic	I really, really enjoyed this book.  I had read Bitten and Stolen, and found them boring and long-winded with few interesting characters and litle substance.  So I skipped Dime Store Magic.  Then I gave in and read Industrial Magic, and boy am I glad I did.  The writing is finally sharp, riveting, and there's lots of action and mystery.  Paige the witch and Lucas the sorceror are very well-grounded (not-annoying) people who jet set all over the United States trying to solve complex mysteries involving the Cabal, the super-rich sorceror mafia families.  I was half-way through and overjoyed that there was so much more to go.  The characters are very well flushed out (compared to her first two books), and the plot is very good, with lots of little turns and the benevolent godfather/Mr. Cortez Cabal figure in it.  Totally recommended.	2004-11-17
US	48870045	R2OMAPQXTKFS7U	0312998767	110265667	Stroke of Midnight	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Loved Winterborn	I give this anthology 5 stars because of Winterborn.  The other stories I barely noticed.  Winterborn had the complexity and energy that I've come to expect from Sherrilyn Kenyon's DarkHunter novels.  Dante is a werepanther, the Katagari kind (animal).  Pandora is a werepantheress, the Arcadian kind (human).  We learn more about Katagari werepanthers, like the fact that once mated, the men are tied for life, while the women are not, and the men stay home and raise the kids while the women only visit fo 2 days/year.  Arcadian women are human, though, and stay with their children.<br /><br />Anyway, Dante is less tortured than Kenyon's usual heroes, and reveals himself to be a werepanther of much honour and integrity.  Dante and Pandora are in a science fiction convention place, and Archeron and Simi and some other gods are there too.  The thing is, Pandora is in heat, Dante is not mated, Dante's twin unmated brothers are there too, and there is an entire Katigari pack of werepanthers out to re-capture Pandora.  We get introduced to werepanther culture, Dante's large family, and another side of Archeron.  Very cool.<br /><br />Most of the Darkhunter novels are full of Greek culture and tortured Romans.  So I really enjoyed this werepanther story, even more than the other Drakos and Oneroi short stories and Night Play.  Dante is very edgey and hard, more convincingly than many of Kenyon's heroes.<br /><br />Amanda Ashley's story was a medieval werewolf story, sweet and gentle.  L.A.Banks story was typically urban and slightly empty/depressingly practical.  I've only read part of Handeland's story, but it's an urban werewolf story, fairly humorous.  But for me, Winterborn just put them all in the shade.	2004-11-15
US	48870045	R1WEE9K5M3PDP6	0425198782	360072307	Tempting Danger (The World of the Lupi, Book 1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Great	I first read this as the short story, and the full-length novel is excellent.  It's got a touch-sensitive, werewolves, gnomes, sorcerors, witches, banshees, precognitives (people who can see the future), telepaths, demons, and at least another were-animal.  Similar to the Charlaine Harris and Laurell K. Hamilton books, a non-human race fought a case in the courts, and the court held that they had some sort of legitimate status, and so the non-human race came out of the closet.  In this case, it was the lupi who came out of hiding.  A werewolf prince falls for a touch-sensitive Chinese cop, they fight some bad guys, rescue a prisoner, etc.  It's part police procedural, romance, paranormal thriller, and mystery.  Enjoyed it greatly.  The only things I found lacking was that compared to the short story, the author cut out several things:  the explanation for why there were no female werewolves,  detail on the women in the clans, and the fact that the cop's grandma likes cats (this is relevant later). However, I did like the expanded extra-human cast and the FBI slant.  I look forward to the rest of this series.	2004-11-03
US	48870045	R2HP0EX87ZJWM9	0373513194	271777802	Kiss of the Blue Dragon (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Very good	I was favorably impressed by Kiss of the Blue Dragon. I had read three previous Bombshell titles (Proof, Get Blondie, and Code Name Dove) and wasn't impressed by them at all.  However, this second batch of Bombshell titles is really good.  Alias was excellently written, Kiss of the Blue Dragon is a great read, and I've just started Urban Legend, which is very good so far. <br /> <br />In Kiss of the Blue Dragon, Angel Baker is a quasi-law enforcement officer in the year 2100.  This book is vaguely similar to J.D. Robb's Eve Dallas series with air-cars, con artist fortune-telling scams, pleasure robots, homeless people living in a dangerous underground city, etc.  However, Angel and the lead man Marco are not as well-fleshed out as Eve Dallas and Roarke. <br /> <br />Marco, the romantic lead, is a cop resembling a 1920's private investigator.  Maybe that's why I didn't like him as much as I liked Jack in Alias, because I'm not that interested in the 1920's PI-type. <br /> <br />On the good side, the book is full of action, Angel totally kicks butt (no matter how large the opponent), her relationship with her mom and Mike is great, and I particularly liked the premise behind the little Chinese girls.  Angel goes all out when innocents are at stake, and you have to admire her chutzpah in saving lives.  Oh, and she's psychic too, so there's a tad of paranormal to go with the futuristic story. <br /> <br />	2004-08-23
US	48870045	RHWRWWCE6LBVD	0373513224	256716166	Urban Legend (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	as good as it gets	Tessa is a vampire, owner of the hottest nightclub in New York City.  She once lost a lover to drugs, and now wages a war on drugs in NY. She is super-strong, reflective, and very humane.  She treats her employees very well, is extremely rich, and strongly principled.  Along comes Flynn, a NY detective who smells something fishy about her nightclub... <br /> <br />A bad vampire from her past kidnaps a friend, and it's up to Tessa, Flynn, a great cast of supporting characters from her nightclub, an anonymous internet aide and an underworld (literally) King to come to the rescue. <br /> <br />I've read many vampire novels that are cliched, cheesy, melodramatic or vapid, but this book was none of that; it was perfect the way it was.  The characters were well-written (although the occasional brief flashback was a bit disconcerting), the action was great, and there was no whininess or sappiness to it at all.  The characters all had interesting lives and were mature and well-rounded.  Especially for a Harlequin novel, this is as good as it gets.	2004-08-23
US	48870045	RFX0OI6HYDT27	0373513208	494871168	Alias: An Athena Force Adventure (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	perfect	This was a great book, far better than the previous 4 bombshell titles.  This is the second in the \\"Athena Force\\" series.  Darcy Steeles was an abused wife of a powerful, millionaire husband and no one believed her when she tried to get help.  Finally, she took her son and went into hiding.  3 years later, she is saving other abused women and living under an alias.  She is disguise expert, living under different faces and names.  She can't be exposed, because legally she has kidnapped her son and no one believed her tales of abuse before.  Then she finds out that her husband is hiding a big secret, one so dark, that if she can prove it, it will free her and allow her to keep her son.   <br /> <br />There are two gorgeous men, Jack and Kel, who are after her, one utterly reliable, one charming and mysterious.  Unlike the other bombshell titles I've read, there is a well written romance throughout the entire book, plenty of plot, mystery and suspense.  I really liked this book, and usually I find Harlequins poorly written.  This book was the exception, and is definitely a keeper.	2004-08-22
US	48870045	RFN3WSE0WF0KD	0451459873	144981880	Blood Rites (The Dresden Files, Book 6)	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Best so far	This is the sixth book in the Dresden series.  Harry Dresden is Chicago's only practicing wizard investigator and is listed in the yellow pages.  He's young, single, and good-hearted.  A vampire friend (there are three kinds of vampires, Red, White and Black Court) wants him to investigate a case for him.  A movie producer is being cursed, and the women around him keep on dying in strange ways.  As usual, Harry jumps right in, is chivalrous and heroic to the end, and there's plenty of action on every page.  Demons, puppies, vampires, police, mysterious assassins, wizards, succubi, it's all there.  However, this book was different from the previous five because at the end of the book, Harry and his life had changed forever.  This series used to be frustrating to read because each book would end with very little changed about the character or his circumstances, like a sit-com.  But with this latest installment, there was more heart, non-stop action as usual, and new relationships being formed, so that it was more like an exciting installment of a dramatic series. Butcher writes very well, there's no mad clap farcical world (Terry Prachett or Christopher Moore) or weird angst - Harry's just a regular guy with bad luck days - just that his bad lucks tend to include demon assassins, homocidal succubi...	2004-08-05
US	48870045	R79AR7QQQMTJM	037351316X	793050333	Proof: An Athena Force Adventure (Silhouette Bombshell) (Bombshell, 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	okay	For a Harlequin, this was okay.  Yes, the heroine is a strong, martial-arts trained forensic scientist.  Yes, the Athena Academy is intriguing, a school for women who will someday dominate the military, police, news, politics, etc.   <br /> <br />However, the first half of the novel is very boring.  Over and over again the heroine thinks about her ex-schoolmate's death, her years at the Academy, and asks herself lots of questons.  Action wise, there is the occasional conversation with ex-schoolmates, and fleeting glimpses of a man following her.  And this is the entire first half of the book. <br /> <br />The last half was better because that's when the hero actually appears and talks and you see their relationship. <br /> <br />This is the first book in a series (possibly 12 books?), and it looks like the ex-schoolmate's death is the unifying concept. SO, except the mystery to drag on and on until the last book. In other words, there is no grand climax or mystery solved at the end of the individual Athena books, you'll have to wait for the last Athena book (June 2005, I understand).   <br /> <br />I'm reading Get Blondie right now, another Bombshell title, and so far, the action and relationships are going splendidly, with tension and a good plot.	2004-07-29
US	48870045	R34Y3BGDHA9OGW	0515138096	316144495	Mind Game (GhostWalkers, Book 2)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Feehan finally got it right!	This is the second book the Ghostwalkers series, in which military men volunteered and had their psychic abilities enhanced.  The scientist who did enhanced their abilities also did it earlier to a group of naturally psychic little girls, who have since grown up.  Nicholas, a Ghostwalker, is sent to find Dahlia, a woman who was one of those little girls and is now a secret operative. Dahlia senses energy, manipulating it so that she can walk upside down, start fires, camoflouge herself.  But someone in her organization has betrayed her, and Nicholas and her end up on the run from assasins and searching for the truth. <br /> <br />Feehan has written many books, and this is one the best.  The relationship and the action is passionate and realistic.  There are no cliched or boring moments.  Each character is strong, active, and their powers merge in a very interesting way. In addition, the entire Ghostwalker team from Shadow Game is back, and the team-play really makes the book stand out.  Highly recommended.	2004-07-28
US	48870045	R1I6VTHKFA6A9M	0843950501	848324717	Dark Destiny (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 11)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The best so far	I've read all of Christine Feehan's books, and this was, in my opinion, the best. For once, instead of a dark, tortured hero, you get a dark, tortured heroine Destiny who kicks butt (her action moves remind me of Selene in the movie Underworld). There's no issue about acclimatizing the human heroine to the world of the Carpathians, because Destiny has already been \\"turned\\".  The secondary characters are not the usual young humans or Carpathians, but rather interesting members of a vibrant community. The best parts for me are not only having a female vampire hunter, but also the neighbourhood mystery (which is nicely solved) and Velda's (zany-dressing old lady) secret. Those two elements really made the book stand out in the series.<br />Yeah, the heroine is traumatized and has trouble adapting to relationships - but that's no surprise - being tortured from the age of 6 to 14 is bound to be hard on anyone's life.  The fact that she's still in terrible pain every single day from the blood in her veins just makes it more reasonable that she's still very close to her ordeal.  Stories of tortured heros who learn to love easily are easy to believe because a) they've had a lot of sexual relationships/vices/friends since to wash the pain away, b) they were older when it happened, or the torture was only for a short time, or c) they have had more time to deal with it, or more time to learn control themselves. Destiny doesn't have any of these advantages. If I'd been beaten, raped, tortured and mutated by a crazy vampire for 8 years and thought I'd caused my entire family to die I wouldn't fall in love with a handsome Carpathian so quickly either (this is all in the first few chapters, so I'm not giving anything away).<br />As for the hero Nicolae, he was already ancient and strong, secure in his abilities. He had nothing to prove. He was strong enough, controlled enough, and smart enough to know that Destiny needed to heal before being rushed into a life-bonding relationship. Readers who want an alpha male to rush his mate into a relationship at the cost of her mental health are asking for a guy with big muscles but tiny brains. Remember? Carpathian males do what's best for their mates, even if that's not what their mates want (Gregori and Savannah, anyone?). Nicolae is smart enough to know that what's best for his mate is to give her some time and patience to get used to him before claiming her. (It just happens that giving her time was what was best for her AND also what she wanted.  Giving her time didn't make Nicolae submissive, it made him intelligent enough to do what was best for her in spite of his own desires.)<br />So this book was everything I'd hoped for and more. The secondary characters really grounded Destiny in a warm loving community with interesting characters, there was an actual mystery (not just the usual vampire-conspiracy storyline), Feehan gave Destiny a realistic reaction (based on her past) to Nicolae, and Velda's secret had me crying at the end. <br />So run out and get this book. But if you just want another book like Dark Prince, Dark Challenge and Dark Magic, you may not like this, because it doesn't follow the old formula.	2004-07-16
US	48870045	R1KJJV91EU14WS	0425192784	248440184	Witching Moon (The Moon Series, Book 3)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	okay	This was my first Rebecca York novel.  The witch-heritage botanist heroine is in a nature reserve studying plants for a pharmaceutical company, and she meets the head ranger hero, an alpha werewolf. Some other witches return to town for revenge, the townsfolk having killed their parents long ago. The two sides clash and the witch botanist and werewolf fall in love in the midst of all the danger.<br />I found this book okay. The characters were good, but the story was set mostly in the middle of an empty swamp, and aside from the sheriff, there was minimal interaction with anyone else. I would have liked to have seen some friendships being made (aside from between the hero, heroine and the sheriff), some humour (the conversations were rather boringly straightforward), and some memorable moments. Aside from the heroine mentally warning the hero and the hero attacking people as a wolf, the scenes were rather humdrum.<br />I'll read her other books in the &quot;moon&quot; series, but only because I understand they don't take place in a swamp.	2004-07-14
US	48870045	R12Q7DB4BM400Z	158234762X	911151258	Princesses Are Not Quitters!	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Amazing	My niece is 5 years old and wants to be a princess. Princess clothes, princess stories, princess pictures. She thinks being a princess means you are the most beautiful of all, have the most beautiful clothes, and get the handsome prince. Beauty is the sole criterion for princesshood. <br />Thankfully, there's this book to teach her that the most important and admirable quality in princesses is that they try new things, work hard, are nice to others and never give up. This book gets 5 stars because it's funny, imaginative, excellently illustrated, and reminds kids that princesses have moral qualities of being good people.  It's not enough to be beautiful, pampered, rich and wear beautiful clothing; a princess should also be kind, industrious and have a sense of self-respect and a strong work ethic.	2004-07-09
US	48870045	R2EEQIBW216Y0V	0515138150	81264330	Cravings	Books	5	6	7	N	N	really enjoyed it	All the stories were great. For those who were disappointed with Hamilton's Anita Blake story - heck - I would read that series for the complicated romance alone! - so the story was good for me - also, nice to know more about Damian and Nathaniel's characters, right?<br />The only slightly off-putting thing was the lack of introspection in Wilk's Originally Human story. So I'm a a succubus. And I can change my physical age. There didn't seem to be enough glimpses into the heroine character.	2004-07-01
US	48870045	R1RW3NPA444K9L	0425196550	303310362	Kinsman's Oath	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Confusing plot	The problem with having TWO telepaths falling in love with each other is that, obviously, they can read each other's minds. In this book, the plot curve balls don't come externally, they come from the telepathic hero and heroine themselves. So how do you have plot curve balls with telephaths? You have them hide themselves. So for the first half of the book, the hero seems like a good guy. Then the second half of the book, you learn his hidden agenda, which also totally altered his personality and made me not like him at all. So I spent the first half of the book getting to like the guy, then in the second half that guy wasn't there anymore, but someone else with the same name and face.<br />The first half is spent introducing the reader to the characters and universe. The second half is where everything gets very confusing and tangled up, as the two telepathic leads subvert their personalities and plots again and again. Because they are telepathic, the two leads are like giant onions, with each layer, complete with personality, plot, and thoughts, hiding the thoughts and goals of the layer underneath. After the author forced me to go through at least 4 layers, I was completely bewildered by who believed what and who each person truly was.  One minute, the heroine or hero was doing something for a particular reason. Then you learn they were lying about it all the time, they really meant to do this. Then you learn that that was just an act, they really want to do this. And so on. By the end of the book, I felt that I didn't know either character at all, they were so full of  subterfuge.<br />I hope her next novel has better plot devices, preferably more creativity in exploring worlds, flora and fauna, rather than this confusing personality-crisis business.	2004-06-22
US	48870045	R1HOLGIJH9KUMT	0743467434	75797710	I Thirst for You (Primes Series, Book 2)	Books	3	47	49	N	N	Could have been better	The hero Marcus is a vampire, captured and tortured. He escapes and finds Josephine. Because he's been tortured, he spends the first three quarters of the book in a constant state of blood hunger/thirst, not to mention lust, because Josephine's his mate.<br />Aside from the blood hunger and lust for his mate, and Josephine's empathy, the entire story was remarkedly like any para-military/action romance. There was very little interaction with other people, or exploration of vampiric culture. In the prequel, I Burn For You, there is an excursion into vampire society, and getting to know other vampires and the culture. <br />In this book, they run and hide, hardly speaking to anyone else, meet one other vampire at the end, and that's it. In the epilogue, it's mentioned that the heroine was brought home to meet the rest of the vampire family, but apparently that wasn't interesting to actually let the reader read what happened. It wasn't until hundreds of pages in that the reader learns anything about the complex vampire culture, so the first few hundreds of pages is just like an action romance.<br />Also, the font was so large, it was very annoying, not unlike Johanna Lindsey novels, making it seem that the story was &quot;blown up&quot; to fill the requisate number of pages.<br />So I think the story did read quickly, had action, but it could have been better, if there had been more interesting supporting characters, more relationships, more insight into the complex vampiric culture we saw in I Burn For You, and smaller font/smaller spacing for the page typset.	2004-06-09
US	48870045	R3JEO6PV466P9G	0425196844	300331712	Jane's Warlord (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent	The plot's been described very well by the other reviewers. In short, he's a genetically engineered military operation-type from the future sent to be her bodyguard. She's a resourceful journalist in a small town, about to be stalked/killed by a time-travelling serial killer.<br />Angela Knight has written many futuristic erotic romances. For this, her first full-length mass market paperback (to my knowledge), the story is as hot as ever, and the futuristic elements perfect. <br />Compared to conventional romance, the book may be a bit shocking, because its erotica content means that there's lots of very explicit sex, with language that conventional readers may find a bit crude.<br />Compared to her other erotic romances, this is very well edited, with the jagged edges smoothed into a very pleasing read. Sometimes her heroes are insanely alpha, and the sex can be really overdone. In this book, everything's balanced perfectly. The hero is alpha but quick and tender, and the sex is very steamy and in the right places.<br />Compared to other novels with futuristic or alien characters (like the Shamara series, Susan Grant's series, etc.), I found this the best. All the futuristic elements made sense and blended in. In other novels, I often find the futuristic/time travelling elements are either awkward, distract from the story, or don't seem realistic at all. Here, Angela Knight has blended futuristic elements, romance, and erotica in the ideal recipe.	2004-06-08
US	48870045	RHLXHA7N18FSE	0451209923	323666926	Emily's Beau (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	original	I enjoyed the short story sequel to this story, in the Wedding Belles anthology, so I tracked down tracked down this Emily's Beau, the first in the series.<br />I've read hundreds of signet and harlequin regencies over the years, and after awhile, they start to blur together. Many regency authors write in a very stilted manner, with template plots and boring stereotyped characters.<br />That's why Emily's Beau was so good. The writing was engaging, the plot was fresh and realistic, and the characters were always interesting. This story really stood out from the usual pack of stories.<br />The beginning of the story is that Emily is coming to town for her first season. She's been in love with someone for many years, and has eagerly waited for her first season so that he would realize she was grown up, and come and claim her as his bride. The only problem is, he's not available, so she has to look elsewhere...and that's where the plot really starts to get going...<br />I really enjoyed this book, and the gossip was interesting enough that I'm going to track down the rest of Allison Lane's books and get them too. Highly recommended.	2004-05-27
US	48870045	R1WI3PT0FO162N	0060184957	769627875	Pride, Prejudice and Jasmin Field: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	well done	I really enjoyed this book, read it all in one sitting. It's a modern chick-lit-ish version of Pride and Prejudice. I was impressed by how the author interpreted the elements of P&amp;P in the modern day world. <br />Another reader blasted Jasmin Field because she's not as virtuous, witty or intelligent as Elizabeth Bennett. Well, neither is Bridget Jones. Besides, this is a modern-day interpration, you know? Sure, Jasmin Field is not as witty or articulate as Elizabeth Bennet, but then, who is? Her salient feature is that she doesn't fall for Harry Noble for his fame, good looks, acting ability, or charm - she finally likes him for his integrity and generosity and great character. It's the same with Bridget Jones and Mr. Darcy. Both Jasmin and Bridget fall in love with the hero's character, and their ability to see past the outer material trappings of the heroes is what makes them special. I think the same goes with Elizabeth Bennett. It's not Elizabeth's wit that endears her to the reader, it's her heart of gold, and that's what the heroine in this book has.<br />The style of writing is very clear and easy to read (no pretentious to Austen's style), and the plot was very cleverly done.  Highly recommended	2004-05-18
US	48870045	R1LDI4W4GPKOB4	0441011632	572870865	Nightingale's Lament (Nightside, Book 3)	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Totally awesome	I've just read all three Nightside novels by Simon R. Green, and they are totally rocking. The world of Nightside is somewhat similar to Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden world, but there are very significant differences: <br />In Jim Butcher's world, the wizard Harry Dresden relies on amulets and potions and things he prepares beforehand, as his &quot;magic&quot;. Without those prior preparations, Harry is just as vulnerable and defenceless as any human. Harry gets beaten up very often, and after 5 books in the series, is just as unlucky a schmuck as when he began. A constant out-of-his-luck detective type. After five books, I get tired of seeing Harry never being rewarded for his deeds, always being the big loser.<br />In Simon R. Green's world of Nightside, that square mile in the centre of London where monsters and gods live, John Taylor doesn't do wizard/witch amulet/potion type things. Taylor's has a psychic gift, that allows him to find anything. This doesn't sound like much, but the author explains that Taylor can find any object, secret, exit, and death. So even with an immortal, Taylor can use his gift to find how to kill them. Plus, he can do other things with his gift too. In the really scary world of Nightside, Taylor is a legend. His mother wasn't human, his father was. Unfortunately, he doesn't know what/where his mother is. The augaries at his birth said that he would come into his kingdom, that he would somehow rule Nightside. So Taylor has a very strong psychic power, and the mysterious and frightening power of something even more in waiting. He gets beaten up occasionally, but unlike Harry Dresden, he isn't a wimp, he can fight back with his power and after 3 books, his good fortune grows. I like that, when a good guy gets ahead, shows some positive progress in the series.  <br />Plus, the world of Nightside is truly beautiful/frightening. The author uses very strong imagery, very powerful and evocative. The characters in Nightside are amazing. Unlike many other authors, Simon R. Green doesn't just pick up monsters from regular culture and throw them into his world (like vampires, werewolves, witches, etc.), he makes up his own monsters. Like Sara the Sorrow, who long ago gave up her humanity and is now the Unbeliever, not believing anything she sees, so that if she looks at you, the power of total lack of belief lets her unmake anything, anyone. Anyway, these are great books, and especially if you like detective mysteries, psychic powers, very strange inhabitants of a very strange place, the promise of a prophecy and a would-be king and don't mind gore, this is the book for you.	2004-04-30
US	48870045	R378AZ9B5PGD1Z	0312984839	744273408	Dance with the Devil (Dark-Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	best so far	Of the four books and two novellas so far (Dance with the Devil, Night Embrace, Night Pleasures, Fantasy Lovers, Dragonswan, Phantom Lover), this was my favourite. Other reviewers have summed up the plot, so I'll give my impressions. <br />Unlike the other novels, this book is set in the frozen Alaskan wilderness (incidentally, I'm from Northern Canada, so I can totally relate to the freezing cold, lack of amenities, wild animals, and isolation). You really see how much stronger Zarek is than all the other Dark-Hunters, Daimons, and humans, as they try to hunt him down and kill him in wilderness. <br />Zarek had a horrible life, was anti-social as a Dark-Hunter, was exiled to Alaska for 900 years, and now, unknown to him, Astrid, a justice nymph, has been sent to judge him. If Astrid finds him guilty, he will be killed. If innocent, he will be allowed to live. Astrid is particularly helpless, being blind and in the Alaskan wilderness, while Zarek is truly scary, and more than a little bit psychotic in his social manners. The relationship between Zarek and Astrid is even stronger and more bittersweet than the other books' couples, as we see Zarek learn to trust for the first time in his long life. How sweet Astrid and psychotically abrasive Zarek learn to love each other is a pretty wild story.<br />This was just a great book, and I've reread it 4 times now, along with the rest of the series. Archeron, Simi, Syra, Spawn, Sundown, the legedary DaySlayer and the three Fates also make appearances in the book.	2004-04-02
US	48870045	R1MPKZMMHMW3ZD	0505525577	940380821	Master of Ecstasy (Mackenzie Vampires, Book 1)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fantastic!	A bunch of time travelling vacationers from the future are invading the Scottish castle of a vampire in the year 1785. One of the vacation company's employees, Blythe has to remain celibate b/c of a past mistake. Blythe is also empathic. The vampire, Darach, enjoys sex above all, and guards his feelings so that Blythe can't even find them. How Blythe learns to open up and love, and Darach learns that someone could want him for his heart rather than his body (as formidable as that is), is the main plot, and a great one at that. The story is supplmented by side plots, interesting supporting characters, and some cosmic powers, villians, and vampires.<br />This was exactly my kind of book - vampires, fantasy, sci-fi, cosmic powers, historical - and it was well-written, the plot excellent, with real comedic aspects.  A lot of romance books are now billed as \\"funny\\", which are jammed with quirky, annoying, stupid characters. This book actually was funny with cool characters without ever being annoying or stupid or ever having the secondary characters overwhelm the main characters. As people, I really liked both the hero and heroine, which is a rarity for me.  Highly recommended.	2004-03-17
US	48870045	RRO7TB8V6YL0Y	0505525542	280223908	Sex and the Single Vampire	Books	2	16	21	N	N	hollow	I had read the first book, A Girl's Guide to Vampires, and thought I'd give the second book, Sex and the Single Vampire, a try.  I found the second book was just as bad. The plot and writing are very chaotic, and very similar to Tanya Huff's Summoning series - there are demons, holes to Hell in the basement requiring a Guardian to seal it, and a summoner.  This is not to mention the obvious spoofing of Christine Feehan's Dark series that's so central to the book - what MacAlister calls the \\"Morovian Dark Ones\\" - haunted Eastern European vampires from the Morovian mountains looking for the right woman to save them from eternal darkness and loneliness, complete with steps to joining, etc, with little details that are so stolen from the Feehan series. It seems like the entire book is made up from other author's ideas and works - the haplessness of Bridget Jones, the plot devices of Tanya Huff's Summoning series, and the vampire legends of Christine Feehan's Dark Series. Even the demon-lord-and-his-minions thing is very reminscent of R.A. Salvatore's Drizzt series.<br />Rather than finding the story and side characters funny, I found they distracted from the romance and were very annoying.  Kind of like if there'd been eight annoying talkin donkeys in Shrek. On the good side, the heroine is worthier than the heroine in the first book - not as silly, selfish, or stupid. But that's not saying much.<br />For actual funny, original, chick-lit meets vampire romance, I would instead highly recommend \\"Undead and Unwed\\" by MaryJanice Davidson.	2004-03-12
US	48870045	R2YJRBEYK55MBK	0312987846	657099004	The Spy (Liars Club, Book 3)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	awesome	This was the best regency novel I've read in a long time. Spies, loyalty to the crown, and wonderful characters, it's got real plot. In this &quot;Liar's Club&quot; series, the men are dangerous, not just by being rich/titled, but also from their secret occupations serving the Crown. The women are smart, in no way absurdly silly in their mannerisms (like some other books). Sometimes I tire of the Stephanie Laurens series (her first series only has danger present from the ton, her new series being too long-winded), or the emptiness of some other Regency novelists.  But Celeste Bradley writes excellent books, exciting, realistic, and wonderful plots. I will buy all her books. Highly recommended.	2004-02-23
US	48870045	R2OXOD0L4TIBVC	0972437703	732147203	The Empress' New Clothes (Trade Paperback Erotic Romance)	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	More erotica than romance	This is not a traditional romance, where only the main couple make out with each other. This is more erotica, with some unusual sexual twists, futuristic connotations, a very different sexual culture, etc. So don't expect this to be politically correct or realistic. It's fantasy with sex and romance and adventure. If you're concerned that people will think this reflects what women want, or how men should act in real life, then this is not the book for you. This book is for those who are more sexually adventurous in their readings, know when how to keep reality and pure flights of fantasy separate, and don't expect earth-bound customs/behaviour/cultural norms/sexual practises from a futuristic, fantastic, space adventure. Enjoying the unreal escapism of this book, I loved it. If you're all for the fantastical, not-worried-about-this-being-dangerous-to-your-sense-of-morality-in-real-life, then I highly recommend it to you. If you're expecting a traditional romance like some of the other reviewers, and are easily shocked/offended by non-politically correct behaviour, maybe you should skip this, it's not for you. Very mature readers only.	2004-02-15
US	48870045	R1N6SU22YWX7LK	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	excellent	I liked this book more than Caress of Twilight. Unlike the first two books, there's no mystery or investigation in this book. The first half of the book is filled with new and regained powerful magic for Merry and her men in Los Angeles. The latter half of the book takes place at the Unseelie court and is full of ten new guards, two new goblins, politics, a duel, assassination attempts, more scary Andais, and a great ending. My favourite part of Laurell K. Hamilton's books is that the heroine, by being an honorable, protecting, courageous person, gets ahead in life. Merry's responsible, humble, sheltering nature turns more and more guards to care for her more than the Queen. I liked the ending in particular because it was very tender and shows Merry's old guards easing the new guards into the very different culture of guarding Merry, which the old guards seem grateful for as a reprieve from the Queen's tender care. The book heavily hints that the next books in the series will cover their visit to the Goblin Court and the Seelie Court, and Merry keeping her bargain with Sholto. I've read it 3 times in 2 days, and now I'm re-reading the entire series again. I can't wait for the next one. Highly recommended.	2004-02-03
US	48870045	R1W0PVQICJZNA2	0373218338	582397391	Charmed Destinies: 3 Novels in 1	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointed	I'm a real Mercedes Lackey fan, but I was really disappointed in her medieval-like short story here.  What I hated the most was that the heroine was continually abused/raped/submitted to her disgusting husband's attentions, for a long time, before deciding to fix the problem with magic.  For a romance, having your heroine sleeping with/being raped/abused by her boor of a husband, over and over again, while the hero lives in the same castle, is terrible.<br />Catherine Asaro's story is interesting, especially since the prince is so powerful that he's right off the rainbow chart.  However, I'm a bit disappointed by the simplicity of the magic system, which is based on shapes and colours. The characters focus their magic by using 3D shapes.  The more sides on the shape, the more advanced the magic.  So spheres, with their infinite sides are the most advanced.  The colours are based on the rainbow, with the darker colours for more advanced magic levels. The magic system just seemed too much like a kid's book of shapes and colours to be mysterious or complicated.  I hear she's releasing the sequel to this story, &quot;The Charmed Sphere&quot;  next month through Harlequin's new fanatasy line, LUNA.<br />Rachel Lee's story was rather boring.  An office worker is sucked into a fantasy world, where a co-worker is also using.  The way it was written was too confusing, trying to keep track of where they were in each reality, and which reality they were interacting in.  Also, the heroine was pretty silly.<br />I won't be keeping this book.  I'll be selling it to the used book store instead.	2004-01-04
US	48870045	R3Q8F4BESUFO2Z	0553584189	551558047	Night Fires	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent	This was a great book.  Usually I don't read books about French Revolutionary times, but I liked Karen Harbaugh's previous Regency romances, and this plot turned out to be engaging and cool.  Unlike other vampire books, in this novel, the heroine is the vampire, and vampirism isn't glorified the way it is in other books.  Instead, becoming human again is something possible and sought for.  If you only want to read about sexy/scary immortal male vampires, then this isn't the book for you.  If you want to read about a strong woman who made a mistake when she was young and now uses her vampiric powers to save people from the Revolution and how her good deeds allow her to win back her humanity, find true love, and live happily ever after, then this is the book for you.  The heroine is smart, determined and has a nifty disguise.  The hero is more than a match for the vampiress and as an assassin, he's very cool under pressure.  They had great chemistry. The plot was very realistic, in the way they interacted, travelled, etc., and author's description of that period. What I enjoyed the most was the surprise twist in the ending involving the children.  I highly recommend this.  I don't read historical romance anymore, but this book is definitely a keeper.  I will buy the sequel as soon as it comes out.	2003-12-31
US	48870045	RFWFVJV1QUH56	0425190722	884558463	Heart Thief (Celta's HeartMates, Book 2)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	excellent!	I liked this book far better than the first one.  While the characters in the first book seemed a bit awkward, the characters in this second book really worked for me.  The hero was strong, tormented, alone, but kept his dignity.  The heroine is of high rank, but not b/c she was born with a silver spoon, but because of her own merit (she's the Supreme Judge in their city), and she's also gracious and strong.  Unlike the other review, I really liked the conversations with the Fams (telepathic pets) b/c it showed how the Hero had someone to care for him when he was exiled and condemned.  Both main characters were admirable people and they acted like adults (no shallow, selfish stupidity or annoying misunderstandings with this author). Considering the story is set in an imaginary world where almost everyone has a mental/paranormal power, their story was well-fleshed out and believable.  Their powers, while seemingly irreconcilable, meshed perfectly.  This was an excellent book.  I'm supposed to be studying for my law exams, but I stayed up until 4 am to finish this book.	2003-12-04
US	48870045	RG4WW9XW3E2PH	0373123256	265798542	The Sheikh's Virgin Bride (Arabian Nights) (Harlequin Presents # 2325)	Books	2	9	15	N	N	very infantile heroine	In this book, Petra is described as \\"mature\\" because she was orphaned at 17, and has jet-setted across Europe and Australia since then.  However, there is little evidence of any maturity.  She is childish, selfish, self-righteous, intolerant, and stereotypes Rashid as a beach bum gigolo undeserving of any respect.  Petra has absolutely no compassion whatsoever.  She immediately thinks the worst of him in any situation (that he is a money-grubbing promiscuous male slut), jumps to conclusions, and as far as I can tell, has no redeeming qualities aside from being attractive and rigidly, self-righteously virginal (in other books, it's actually possible to be virginal and a nice/admirable person at the same time).  Petra is usually yelling, accusing, or panicking in this story. <br />The hero, Rashid \\"Blaize\\" is devastatingly sexy, but as to his actions, he acts very cruelly towards her, taunting her, making her panic.<br />The characters were not likable for me - she was too childish, he was too mean at times - and the plot suffers from two very difficult to believe twists:  Implausibly and unrealistically, in a sudden blinding moment, emerging from her total lack of respect for Blaize, Petra realizes she loves him.  And we learn that underneath his cruel manner, Blaize has secretly loved Petra all along because of her ideals (oh, is that why he was so mean to her?).  <br />There were some stereotypes, like Petra feels a longing for home and roots because she's part British, but also feels a longing for a nomadic lifestyle because she's part Arabic.  (Could one also say that a character has a taste for conquest because they're British and a taste for being colonized because they're part Egyptian?  It sounds pretty absurd to me.) <br />This was my first Penny Jordan book, and will be my last.  I much preferred the other book I got at the same time, \\"The Arabian Love-Child\\" by Michelle Reid.	2003-06-12
US	48870045	RP1LILBGLU9BC	0451458842	894481588	The Glasswrights' Journeyman	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Didn't like Hal	What's wrong with King Hal?  He's supposed to be a good guy, and the main love interest - but he acts like a complete jerk, is a hopeless negotiator to the detriment of his country, is mean to Rani, and one night, sleeps with a someone else(a virgin whom he gets pregnant), intends to marry another princess, but instead ends up marrying up the woman he impregnated, who is a mean, manipulative, cruel person.  Yeah right, Hal's an admirable love interest for Rani. He's stupid in his relationships, rude to Rani, impregnates and marries an evil woman, and all along, Rani's heart bleeds/is infuriated by him.  I won't be reading any of Klasky's books.  I like good guys that I can actually like.	2003-05-28
US	48870045	R2LLUMQ5D837WB	0345377591	581442498	The Seeress of Kell (The Malloreon, Book 5)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	great change from jordan	After reading the never-ending claptrap of Jordan (he can write, but he can't plot), where the nice characters change into very unattractive people, and never spend any real time together, and the books basically chase 6 separate heroes and various never-ending subplots around the map, it's such a relief that David Eddings actually delivers.  Garion is still the good, humble, nice kid from Faldor's farm, even though he's an important King now, and in Seeress of Kell, the entire plot of the Mallorean and Belgariad is tied up.  Both the Mallorean and Belgariad are nicely paced, characters stay true, and are always interacting with each other.  The 5 books in each series is such a relief in how they progress, and conclude nice and tight in Seeress of Kell.  Excellent.  It's such a relief after reading the Wheel of Time series by Jordan, which just goes on and on and wastes time.  Eddings rocks.	2003-05-03
US	48870045	R3PFP9TFYP5U3P	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Anita grows up!	While the later Anita Blake novels are not as straightforward as the early ones (after all, there's more and more men and her relationships just get more complicated - it used to be just Jean Claude v. Richard - now it's Jean Claude v. Richard v. Asher v. Jason v. Micah v. Nathaniel), I like the later books more.  In the first novels, Anita is just insanely stubborn and idealistic.  She used to have all these rules, to help herself feel different from all the monsters, to mark a boundary.  In Cerulean Sins, she's finally growing up, and realizing that some of her prohibitions aren't worth the torture/death of someone she cares for.  She learns to compromise with herself, to make the people around her about happier.  And by doing so, she finds a measure of peace.  She can't help being the way she is, and now that she has the ardeur, she has to have multiple partners.  It's just part and parcel of being an Anita human servant who's part of Belle's line.  So the sex scenes don't bother me at all.  Compared to her usual violent/rude/aggressive attitude, it's nice to see her when she's actually emotionally open and intimate with the other characters.  It's got the danger of Burnt Offerings, the paranormal sensuality/complexity of Narcissus in Chains, and kick-a** attitude of Circus of the Damned.  I really enjoyed Cerulean Sins, and would recommend it to anyone who likes Laurell K. Hamilton's later novels.	2003-04-05
US	48870045	RVDOAZ03DOD45	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	just perfect	This was just perfect; 4 short regency novels that didn't feel hurried or unreal.  The stories go together so well, they all seem to be written by the same regency novel, so there's no jarring inconsistencies.  The stories are all intertwined, and the characters see each other at the skating party, theatre, ball, as they are all ton, so you get to see the same event from several viewpoints.  Lady Whistledown is wry and sly as ever.  I liked them all, each stood out with very different plots and relationships.  Highly recommended, and well worth the price.	2003-02-04
US	48870045	R2UFW5PVP2RBNP	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Stephanie Plum meets Anita Blake	This series is basically Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series (quirky characters, young harmless looking female, comedy) meets Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series (vampires living with the public, psychics, lycanthropes, heroine sleeping with vampire, and desirable to other non-humans) - so you have all the fantastical elements of Anita Blake's world, but not that complicated/scary yet, and the lovable heroine, zany plots, and light-hearted comedy of Stephanie Plum's world.<br />If you like either series, and are just waiting for the next books to come out, read the Southern Vampire Series.  It's good too.	2003-01-03
US	48870045	R26SH3IYJ9YPTQ	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Excellent	This was a great story, especially since right after reading it, I went and re-read the previous novels in this series, The Duke, Lord of Fire, Lord of Ice, then Lady of Desire all over again.  I'll buy anything Gaelen Foley writes.  I hear Liz's story will be out this autumn, look out!  (I can't wait to see if she makes Alec crawl for hurting her in this book.)<br />I think it's the current trend for authors to create large Regency-era families/close cliques of unbearable handsome men (and some female relatives) and marry each person off.  First it was Mary Jo Putney with her &quot;Fallen Angel&quot; series, Stephanie Laurens with her &quot;Bar Cynster&quot; series, Julia Quinn with her &quot;Bridgerton&quot; series, and now Gaelen Foley with her &quot;Knight Miscellany&quot; series.  <br />For some reason, there's a Demon and a Lucifer in Stephanie Lauren's series, a Lucien/Lucifer spymaster in Mary Jo Putney's series, and in Gaelen Foley's series, twins; Damien/Demon as a soldier and Lucien/Lucifer as a spymaster.  Coincidence?  I think not.  We're just extra-susceptible to Regency men nicknamed Demon or Lucifer, especially if they are emotionally wounded ex-soldiers or dashing spymasters.<br />Gaelen Foley's story is excellent, and I love the new covers.  I hope they re-issue all her books (Ascension trilogy, The Duke) in similar elegant covers.  Unlike the repetitiveness of Stephanie Lauren's earlier Bar Cynster novels (the heroes and heroines all acted the same in the earlier books - he says he'll never marry, she says she'll never marry, he chases and gets hooked, she won't marry until he says he loves her, then he surrenders - the earlier books are all practically the same), each of Gaelen Foley's novels are distinct, enchanting, and very, very good at tugging your emotions.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-01-03
US	48870045	R3KLH1WN3DRDH3	0395159903	374069337	The Country Bunny and the Little Gold Shoes	Books	5	160	161	N	N	powerful and true	This is the most powerful book I have ever read.<br />The boastful jackrabbits, the aristocratic snobby rabbits, and the male rabbits who laugh when little country bunny tells them that she will grow up to become to be one of the revered Easter Bunnies - are all proven wrong.<br />Little country bunny grows up, has children, and through the pure goodness of her heart and common sense catches the eye of the Wise Old Grandfather bunny.  <br />Ta-da!  He asks her to be an Easter Bunny!  After trials and tribulations, her determination, caring, and perseverence carry her through, and she is exalted beyond her dreams by Grandfather Bunny.  She is wise, and nice, and very humble.<br />I love this story because is beautifully written and teaches that those with good and kind hearts, who work hard and persevere, will triumph.  Being rich, big, high-born, young, male, does not matter where it really counts - all that matters is what is in your heart.<br />I first read this as a minority child growing up in a rural community.  Now I am a professional in a large city.  This book made a difference for me.	2001-12-06
US	48870045	RRZK1YADMKVU7	0312974132	769451414	A Little Scandal	Books	4	5	12	N	N	gentlemanly conduct	I've read Where Roses Grow Wild, Portrait Of My Heart, and A Little Scandal, and would rate them above average.  <br />However, one thing disturbs me.  In all three novels, the heroines end up living in the same house as the hero, who is in a more powerful position.  As gentleman, the men in a household are supposed to protect those in the women in their homes, and definitely not take advantage of them (i.e. Regency Buck, by Georgette Heyer).<br />Yet time and again, the heroes in Patricia Cabot's books take the innocence of the heroines living under their roof, and feel no twinge of conscience, no betrayal of honor.<br />I don't admire the men that much, they seem to have little honor concerning their &quot;own&quot; womenfolk.	2001-04-04
US	48870045	R20IV1R2UFWAQZ	0553244272	342230262	Chase The Moon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	amazing music	This book is amazing in its music.  The music of Pagliacci is really beautifully lived and described, Cory's voice is shatteringly breathtaking, and all this from a printed pages! Even the light of the sun, the taste of chocolate, and the color of white are vividly interpreted, deeply impressing a new meaning on my mind.  The years of yearning and moonlit preparation for Cory to emerge into the sunlight as the world's greatest singer, and her unfolding love in Paris while rebelling against her \\"Pluto\\" is truly beautiful.  The passion that drives her, frees her, and gives her the strength to stand up against tyranny, wealth, and those who would keep her down is truly tear-jerking.  I first read this book when I was fourteen, and many years later, I still consider it one of my favorites.  I only wish that the ending were a little bit longer.  If only they had it available as an ebook!	2001-03-07
