US	48934780	R3EF809S0MVQPA	0312984928	897656335	The Green Berets	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Why do I always disagree!?	I was blown away that some people did not like this book!  I absolutely loved it!  Before you begin reading it you must put it in the context of the time it was written.  This is a book written before any of our main troops were sent to 'nam and therefore the things we know now are simply hindsite and can not be applied to this book.  This book, while called fiction, is the closest you will ever get to truly understanding our most well known and almost mystical special forces group.  It details, with fake names due to govt regulations at the time, many Beret missions that were, until lately, highly classified.  This book will take you on many missions that seem like they are straight off of a hollywood script...in fact these stories are what created most of those scripts.  You will join the berets in battle, deep behind enemy lines and see how they fought before the days when rescue was an artillery shot away.  You will love each chapter of this book and it will be a very quick read.  Please do yourself the favor, if you have any interest in this subject, of picking up this important book and learning a bit about America's Green Berets!	2004-04-28
US	48934780	RALGY4ITGUSWP	0425089517	640376978	The Tunnels of Cu Chi	Books	3	24	31	N	N	I am very torn!	I have to say that this book is a necessary read, but mainly because it is the only one written on the subject.  It is well written and very descriptive but I fear the area it is most descriptive about is not what the title implied.  I thought this was going to be a history of the tunnel rats when in fact that was only a small part.  There is much more praise and accolation for the communist defenders than there is for the rats.  I have to say, right up front, that as an American this can be a painful book to read.  There are no holds barred when discussing the tunnel defenders point of view...you will hear many stories of Americans being killed ruthlessly.  For those who have not come to grip with this war the book may be too much.  Some say this account is simply unbiased but I feel that is not true.  There seems an subtle leaning towards the american side being 100% in the wrong and the brave tunnel fighters being the heroes...that was disturbing.  Maybe this book was necessary as most of those I read are written from the opposite bias but it is disturbing none-the-less.  I got the same sort of feeling when I read Chester Wilmots 'struggle for europe', another british history that seemed like it was unfairly taking jabs at America and her soldiers.  In summary I feel it is necessary to read this account, since it is the only history of these amazing soldiers, but please go into it knowing you will be disturbed by many things you read.	2004-04-28
US	48934780	R2K68FFFVNDDCA	0345322797	648113675	Everything We Had: An Oral History of the Vietnam War (Presidio War Classic. Vietnam)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Very Unique Summation of Vietnam	This book takes a very unique approach to narrating the history of the Vietnam war.  It allows individuals to tell their stories of their experience, but does so in chronilogical order.  So what you get first is a story about welcoming Americans to the war i.e. getting off the plane to see a corpse fall out of the bag...welcome to nam and what you get last is a get out of Saigon before it falls story.  The stories are varied, covering special ops and grunt units to hospital and airforce views.  Some stories are very short while some linger on, but all of them have heart and truly show a side not usually seen with the battle histories.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and believe anyone with any interest in America's involvement in Vietnam would also.  It is very cheap and is a quick read and will improve your knowledge of history...all three great qualities!	2004-04-15
US	48934780	R3PS7QUICHHHYK	014043786X	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	19th Century Encyclopedia Brown VS.  You !?	When I was a kid I used to read about a detective named Encyclopedia Brown.  In these stories you were entertained with an action filled plot and given critical bits of info about each case, and the fun part was figuring out who the villian was.  Very fun and very challenging books.  Well when I happened upon Mr. Sherlock and his demonic hound case I found a glorified version of young enclyopedia set in 19th Century London...and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The story offers suspense and mystery, and challenges you to beat Sherlock to the solution.  It challenged me enough that I went out and bought the complete set of Holmes' Stories...and I am gonna figure at least one of them out.<br />I deducted a star simply because I read it in between books like 'Grapes of Wrath', 'Catcher in the Rye', and '1984' which must, necessarily, be rated higher.  But none-the-less, I think you will be thoroughly entertained and challenged by what you read!	2002-08-19
US	48934780	R1099IRPXLAIBU	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	FRIGHTENING, HORRIFYING, and so IMPORTANT!!!	This is truly a great and important Novel!  The story that dared the world to behold its possible future during a time when the future was terrifyingly uncertain, still today holds its grip on the reader!<br />  Orwell could have been a tennis player, because he serves you up so perfectly with the heroic struggle of a man and woman against the omnipotent, ever-watchful State, and then smashes you into oblivion with the absolute destruction of any hope for a good ending or bright future.<br />  This book warns you as obnoxiously as the whistle of an approaching train of the dangers of absolute government that has technology at its disposal and ignorance its only adversary!  Many people believe that 1984 never happened because '1984' happened....I would be inclined to agree.  Read the powerful book!  It will Stun you, I promise!	2002-08-19
US	48934780	R3KT2DDAOI3N13	0679783385	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Maybe the book was cheated...!?	Yes, I enjoyed this book.  The STORY was good...I am sure you have an idea about it so I won't waste time with a summary.  The SETTING was great...Hawthorne brought 17th Century frontier Boston alive with his stunning descriptions.  The CHARACTERS were ok...yes, only ok, because I never found myself loving or hating any of them, which to me is evidence that the author was successful with his creation.  But...The SYMBOLISM is what makes this book, what makes it a classic!...This book is a brilliant essay on how important it is to abide by a conscience.  One mishap can lead you down a path towards destruction.  BUT aiding in that destruction were Christians who were more unforgiving then the heathen around them...The christian who reads this book should learn that forgiveness was the #1 thing Christ taught and expects from us! (i.e. He who is merciful shall obtain mercy).  BUT what I learned most from this book was how important it is to understand Gods grace!  God is not some powerful ogre waiting to punish but a friend waiting to forgive.  If this frontier town only could have known this how different their experience would have been!<br />However,  I think this book was cheated because I read it right after the stunning 'Grapes of Wrath' and it simply could not compare, overall, and therefore can not receive the elite five star status!  Still a must read if you have never...!	2002-08-07
US	48934780	RVCRZF8CPBS3E	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Exciting! Unique! Anticlimatic!?	Great Story!  So much different from the movies and my expectations.  The book flows nicely and keeps the action going throughout so it is a very fast read.  Even the dialogue scenes were interesting and never bored me.<br />Very unique style!  No narrator...just a set of journal entries and newspaper clippings, so you really get inside each characters head. And despite what other reviewers have said, I liked each of the heroes and despised Dracula, which was Stokers goal.<br />But!  The book is anticlimatic!  I won't ruin the ending for you but the grand finale is more bland than grand.  After all the buildup you expect a firework ending and simply get a sparkler.  Despite this flaw I thought it a very worthwhile read as it gives you a picture of both 19th Century England and the origin of Dracula....4outa5.	2002-08-07
US	48934780	R3NR0YEOES5UJ0	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It FLOWS LIKE A BUTTERFLY and STINGS LIKE A BEE!!!	John Steinbeck, in my opinion, is probably the most talented author I have ever read.  His descriptions are awe-inspiring, his narration unique, and his stories are emotional rollercoasters.  I found myself, while reading 'The Grapes', at all times either laughing, crying, or just plain ticked off.  In this novel is portrayed one of the saddest, yet least know tradgedies in our countries history.  The story of farmers kicked out of their homes, forced to a strange land and despised, cheated, and starved when they arrived reminded me of medievil times but the sad fact is it happened while our grandparents were growing up.  I admit I was not proud of America as I read this book!  But it is oh so important of a read because if it can happen 50 years ago it can happen today, and only by learning from history can we avoid these same mistakes.<br />But despite the feelings you may have while consuming this book please do not avoid it, for it is a must read.  If you have somehow made it past high school without having read this one, then why not do it now.  It is probably the best book I have read by an American author and too important to pass up.  I don't guarantee you will happily enjoy it but I do guarantee you will be better for having read it!	2002-07-23
US	48934780	R30GPTSQ6B9L3I	0142000736	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A man with a plan finds some jewels in a Pan	You are not getting the full story with this edition and I am afraid you miss a bunch if you try the fast food variety of this book.  While you will get the basics of the story, you miss too much background for it to be believable.  The abridged version takes you from a dirty convict one day to a suave and loaded Count the next without showing you the transformation.  The story is too good to skip 800 pages!<br />Anyway...This is a really cool story!  Not many of us know what it is like to be extremely wealthy and all powerful, but this book shows us this.  After poor fisherman Edmond is thrown in prison for nothing, his fortune turns around and he escapes to the world again (after a decade and a half!) and finds trillions upon trillions (?) of dollars in jewels in gold that a fellow prisoner had discovered a map to.  He spends alot of money over the next decade setting up the ultimate vengeance on those responsible for his earlier arrest.  VERY ENTERTAINING THROUGHOUT!!!  You will get an early view of not only early 19th century Paris but also a beautiful panoramic from life along the Mediteranean to the Catacombs of Rome.  A truly sweeping narration!<br />5 stars for the story!<br />3 stars for this edition!	2002-07-17
US	48934780	R2N2485VO2XT4C	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heard this before???  ONE OF THE BEST EVER!	I mean it!  I really do!  I know this book has little action, no intrigue, no super covert symbolism, believe me I know this.  But it is still one of the, uh, lets say, Top 3 books I have ever read!  I loved it!!!<br />Lets take a look at our Protagonist, Holden Caufield.  This book is entirely his narration of one weekend after he gets kicked out of private school.  He decides to run away for a few days into NYC.  There he runs into old friends, prostitutes, pimps, nuns, and a bunch of other classic characters.  But it is not these people that draw your interest.  It is Holdens thoughts and feelings towards each of them that makes this story a classic.  His thoughts are sometimes dreary, sometimes off-the-wall, and sometimes HILARIOUS, and all the time fascinating!  I gotta admit that even though Holden was supposedly losing his mind, I would be willing to bet each one of us can relate to the thoughts he has.  I found myself, many times, agreeing with his take on things, despite the fact that critics and psychologists declare his take bordered on the insane...I say right on Holden!<br />That is what makes this a classic...the fact that despite his problems we can all relate!	2002-07-17
US	48934780	R2F05RP0RYWWV3	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Never should've skipped it!	I am quite sure that I skipped this book way back in school when I was asked to read it for english class...well I was mistaken.  10 years post high school I finally decided to give it a try and I was wonderfully surprised...<br />Not only was this a great adventure story of a group of 30 young 'castaways' who forage, fight, and fail to form any semblance of order,  but it is also a great symbolic lesson of what happens when we deny the presence of evil and think that we humans can survive on our own without rules, regulations, or a religion that teaches us how to combat the 'beast' or the 'lord of the flies' that exists within each of us.  We can only hope that we are rescued by the proverbial navy captain before we are hung on the double pointed stake.	2002-07-15
US	48934780	R1HT5NHSJJEVWR	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	1	22	35	N	N	YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH!	Despite what other reviewers may say; Despite the praises that may have been sung; Despite the acclaim the author may have received;  Despite all of this I loudly proclaim that this book STUNK!  I truly believed if there was anything good to come out of this book, I could find it and I was sorely disappointed!<br /><br />  So you may ask, what was the problem?  Well let me just tell you a few of the major problems...First, this book is probably the worst example of intellectual pointless rambling that I have ever happened across.  Eco throws so many facts at you that you can grasp very, very few of them.  And added to this is the fact that 90% of these facts are most assuredly BS!  And the author has mixed in just enough facts with his fiction to be dangerous, thereby filling the world with people who may believe some of his fairy tales...dangerous.  For example, Ecos dialogue on what motivated the holocaust is so foolishly concocted as to be on the verge of insane.  Very dangerous to take a tragic event that is so alive in peoples memory and give the younger generation a reason to believe it was necessary!  Another problem the book has it that it just never goes anywhere.  Most of it is simply dialogue between a couple of guys who know many big words and have no clue how to put them together to make sense.  Useless rambling I say!  And the fact that every character is so unreal intellectually that it is laughable.  Every person who speaks must have been a phD in every field because all of them had extensive opinions on everything.  I have been to both Milan and Bologna (where the author lives and works) and believe me the people are not even close to as smart as this book makes it appear!<br /><br />  Anyway, sorry to ramble...I must have got that from Mr.Eco.  Some of you eco fans may disagree but to the average person who is thinking of reading this book please don't...it is a waste of your time.  There are too many classics out there written by authors who matter such as conrad, salinger, dumas, dickens, tolkien,...etc.  Read one of their books!<br /><br />  Well you wanted the truth about the book and I am afraid if you are an eco fan you can't handle the truth!  Pass this one by!!!such as conrad, salinger, dumas, dickens, tolkien,...etc.  Read one of their books!  <BR>  <BR>   Well you wanted the truth about the book and I am afraid if you are an eco fan you can't handle the truth!  Pass this one by!!!	2002-07-08
US	48934780	R3FATG3B4D34FO	9992117524	512522537	Heart of Darkness and the Secret Sharer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thought I had it figured out!	Well I have seen apocalypse now a few times and so I thought this would simple be a literary review of what I had seen...wrong!  I found out that Francis Ford Copolla took alot of liberty with the script of his movie...because there are many, many differences between the movie and its origins.<br />First of all, if you are deciding whether or not to read 'The heart of darkness' then don't have any more doubts.  It is undoubtedly a classic...If for no other reason then to gaze in wonder at Conrads unbelievable ability to describe anything.  His descriptions are beautiful and fitting and truly make his books works of art.  Also the story is a great one...If you don't know it is about a captain of a ship who takes his riverboat far into the interior of Africa to relieve an agent who has been in the woods way too long.  But the story is not the reason this book is a classic.  It attained that status by the way it looks at the darkness inside of each of us and what the results of courting that darkness can be.  The deeper meaning behind this book is what endears it to the reader.  And you will find yourself thinking about the book and its meaning long after you have closed the cover.<br />And this particular copy of the book is a good one to buy because you get two great stories for the price of one!	2002-07-08
US	48934780	R1TZAK4CN1H3AE	0345435400	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	GOOD NEWS OR BAD NEWS?	Well which one do ya want...good news?  Well if you are a Star Wars fan and would love to fill in some blanks between episode 1 and episode 2 then this certainly does that.  The book tells of an adventure Obi-wan and Annakin are given to help mold the training jedi.  And the adventure is sometimes exciting, especially in the end...BUT-the bad news...I, as a mild Star Wars fan who never reads science fiction, found this book just plain weird.  I never could get used to Annakin having seeds who attached to him and talked to him as he petted them, and big wormlike hairy creatures who birthed and ate his own insect children???  Maybe this is a norm for sci-fi (I am a non-fiction reader usually) but it just seemed a bit off the deep end***  Overall it was worth the read as it only took a couple days and did give me some good background info on annakin turning into vader and the origin of the death star.  Pick it up if you're a fan and if not then stick to the movies.  So there ya have it...take the good or the bad cuz it is up to you...	2002-06-06
US	48934780	R1L2TRLN2262O4	0804118361	88370285	Assault on Dak Pek: A Special Forces A-Team in Combat, 1970	Books	5	6	6	N	N	FOR SOME REASON!?	Talk about a surprise.  This book was nothing like what I expected and yet FOR SOME REASON i liked it.  I was assuming this would be a book written about a single action, graphic in its detail, and filled with warfare throughout...but that is not the case.  The summary tells of a bloody bunker to bunker clean up and weeks of heroic action filled fighting but that is not what i found.  Yes the book has this but it fills a much smaller portion of the book than I thought it would.  Most of the book is filled with the ordinary, day to day life of a special forces soldier and yet, maybe, this is the reason that I liked it.  I for one like a book to be action packed but there was just something about wade and his experience, even his visits to town or his quiet patrols, that was extremely interesting.  For the first time I got a look at life for a viet vet outside the normal experience.  Wade spent time in Thailand, especially Bangkok, and his experiences there are far from ordinary and far from boring.  And even when, in 1970, Wade was back 'in country' he retells all of his experience, terrifying or monotonous, in an extremely interesting fashion.  And to put the icing on the cake Wade gives a postwar history of himself and gives us a first hand account of the battle against normalcy in America when he returned that in some ways was tougher than his battle in Vietnam.  His rejection by so many he had fought for effected him for decades and this narration is extremely useful to both the Vet and non-Vet.  He concludes by giving his advice on how to return from war without bringing the war with you...great stuff.<br />  So in summary, even though it was not as action packed as I had envisioned, for some reason I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I have no doubt you will too!!!!  Pick this cheap book up cuz it is a winner.	2002-06-03
US	48934780	R2SPLHNRDC4ZSV	0060506989	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	6	7	N	N	WITHOUT A DOUBT!!!!!	For a long time I have been biased towards reading only WW II histories and therefore thought that no book could describe war better than MacDonalds 'Company Commander'.  Well, I was wrong, and this is the book that convinced me of this.  This is without a doubt the harshest, most vivid picture of war I have yet to see between the covers of a book.  Moore describes, literally, every moment of the most ferocious battle in Vietnam.  And unlike the movie, which only shows you half the battle, he tells about the second big NVA attack that decimated the Americans.  In this book you will see war in all of its horrific colors, like you have probably, never seen before.  In fact it almost makes a war historian not want to study war any more.  There is no glory here...only bravery and terror and horror and pain.  Pleasse take time to read this book that is oh so different from the movie...you will not be disappointed...	2002-03-12
US	48934780	R3G69J6SRR3S7E	0553580876	549305531	Sympathy for the Devil	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I have no sympathy for the devil!	Let me first state that overall it is a very quick, adrenaline pumping read about a small Green Beret unit, outposted far in enemy controlled territory, and the missions that this small unit goes on.  The book follows our `hero' Hanson from the end of his first tour, through his insane trip back to the states, and ends during his second tour in Nam.  It centers, basically around Hanson and his two friends, as they basically hang out in their camp, go on occasional and terrifying patrols, fight fellow soldiers, etc.  If you like the typical Vietnam paperback then you will love this book...If you are easily turned off by guts, gore and too much testosterone then you should avoid this one.<br />Overall I enjoyed this book, having only one major complaint.  I feel the author rushed an ending that doesn't fit with the rest of the book.  It almost seems like he was ready for the book to be over and so he kills off a couple of the main stars and has the `hero' annihilate some nva AND an entire American company  and then fly off into the sunset.  Despite this quick and unlikely ending it is a book that you more than likely will enjoy...although I still have no sympathy for the Devil.	2002-03-06
US	48934780	R11697YTKJQXW0	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	4	3	4	N	N	THIS GUY WAS A NUT!	I knew when I first picked up a book about a sniper in Vietnam that I was in for rude awakening.  Up until now, all of my military reading has been on squad or bigger sized units taking on Nazis or Yankees and so I was anticipating finding out what it was like for one man, alone, in the bush of Vietnam.  I was not too be disappointed.  Most of this book is action packed, but not just regular war book type action...This is one man (or 2) alone in the deep, dark jungles of Vietnam, literally surrounded by NVA troops!  The missions that our hero, Carlos Hathcock, undertakes are unbelievable.  If you buy the book for no other reason than reading about these missions you will not be disappointed.  Carlos takes on the `Apache Women' who routinely tortured, castrated, and killed Americans...He takes on, in a long creeping match, the NVA's best sniper...and in his final big mission, crawls deep into an enemy headquarters to take out one of their big boys.  All of these missions, and many more, are described in nerve-wracking narration that leaves you reading page after page, late into the night.  You simply will not be disappointed in the telling of these adventures.  What you may be disappointed in is that the story is slightly biased...but in reading a book about a Marine hero, written by a Marine, this was not surprising.  You may also be confused, especially at the start, by the way the narration jumps around from the states to different operations in Vietnam, leaving you often times confused as to where you at and what is going on.  You may also be a little shocked at the nonchalant killing of dozens upon dozens of Vietnamese, each kill being described in rather vivid detail...but once again by picking up a book on Snipers you should be ready for this.<br />Other than these small complaints, I found this a highly informative and adrenaline pumping book that is a VERY quick read...	2002-03-06
US	48934780	R135LONWQM0S2M	0789404257	321625811	Italy (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	43	43	N	N	GOTTA SEE THIS!!!!	So you are looking for a travel guide to Italy!? Well you have found one of the most helpful books out there. DK Travel books, if you have never used one, are extremely well written guides to getting around almost any european country, and are organized as follows...First the book is divided into 17 sections, one for each area of the country (Tuscany, Umbria, etc), with a section on Rome, Florence and Venice as well. Then each section has a beautiful hand drawn map with roads and mini castles drawn in, which is numbered...for example, Tuscanys map will have 28 numbers on it with San Gimignano being 24. You then look a bunch of pages later for number 24 and there is a whole page on San Gimignano, including 5 pictures from around town and a 3d drawing of the town with the important sites marked and a proposed walking tour of the town. That is what makes this book...the attention to detail. The drawings are very numerous and very helpful and are only outdone by the wonderful photography that allows you to see where you are going to go.<br />Also included are sections on driving in Italy, sleeping in Italy (hotel prices and numbers included), eating in Italy, etc. The eating section is even unique in that there are little pictures of the different dishes you will run into so, even if you can't pronounce Pesto Figitaloni(sp?) you will know what it looks like. A section is devoted to the different wines you will find and one on the most beautiful buildings and castles throughout the country. What all these benefits give you is not only an awesome tool to plan your trip but a great picture book to keep on your coffeetable!<br />Only weakness I found with this book is that most of the accomodations listed are fairly expensive...hotels +75$ a night and restaurants +20$...this is over my budget so...<br />One word of advise...Couple this book with 'Rick Steves Italy' (For the real intimate details of each of Ricks favorite areas of Italy) and if you still need info on hotels, restaurants and tips of what to see than settle for Let's Go Italy or western Europe. This combo of books will tell you all you need to know while planning your trip and while travelling around in Italy...Enjoy and have safe travels...<br />..., restaurants and tips of what to see than settle for Let's Go Italy or western Europe. This combo of books will tell you all you need to know while planning your trip and while travelling around in Italy...Enjoy and have safe travels...<BR>...	2002-02-21
US	48934780	R10GLMIJ2L85DH	0789466465	166781978	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Germany	Books	5	15	15	N	N	THREE'S A CHARM!!!	So you are looking for a travel guide to Germany!?  Well you have found one of the most helpful books out there.  DK Travel books, if you have never used one, are extremely well written guides to getting around almost any european country, and are organized as follows...First the book is divided into 14 sections, one for each area of the country (Bavaria, Rhine, etc), with a section on Munich and Berlin as well.  Then each section has a beautiful hand drawn map with roads and mini castles drawn in, which is numbered...for example, Bavarias map will have 28 numbers on it with Rothenburg being 17.  You then look a bunch of pages later for number 17 and there is a whole page on rothenburg, including 5 pictures from around town and a 3d drawing of the town with the important sites marked and a proposed walking tour of the town.  That is what makes this book...the attention to detail.  The drawings are very numerous and very helpful and are only outdone by the wonderful photography that allows you to see where you are going to go.<br />Also included are sections on driving in germany, sleeping in germany (hotel prices and numbers included), eating in germany, etc.  The eating section is even unique in that there are little pictures of the different dishes you will run into so, even if you can't pronounce Weinerschnitzel (sp?) you will know what it looks like.  A section is devoted to the different beers you will find and one on the most beautiful castles throughtout the country.  What all these benefits give you is not only an awesome tool to plan your trip but a great picture book to keep on your coffeetable!<br />Only weakness I found with this book is that most of the accomodations listed are fairly expensive...hotels +75$ a night and restaurants +20$...this is over my budget so...<br />One word of advise...Couple this book with 'Rick Steves Germany, austria, and switz' (For the real intimate details of each of Ricks favorite areas of Germany) and if you still need info on hotels, restaurants and tips of what to see than settle for Let's Go Germany or western Europe.  This combo of books will tell you all you need to know while planning your trip and while travelling around in Germany...Enjoy and have safe travels...info on hotels, restaurants and tips of what to see than settle for Let's Go Germany or western Europe.  This combo of books will tell you all you need to know while planning your trip and while travelling around in Germany...Enjoy and have safe travels...<BR>	2002-02-21
US	48934780	R3EOM96UOGL0CR	2060002842	3435777	Michelin 2001 Tourist and Motoring Atlas Europe (Michelin Tourist and Motoring Atlas : Europe (Spiral, Small Format), 4th ed)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Perfect Europe Atlas	This is, without a doubt, the perfect atlas for driving in Europe...and here are a few reasons why this is the only one you will need .  1)It offers a reference map on the back cover that allows you to turn instantly to the certain area of europe you are interested in  2)The scale is large enough to cover all of europe in a little over 100 individual maps but small enough to show you were individual castles, monastaries, and scenic routes are 3)The distance tool, although in km, gives the distance between any two points on the map and it is therefore possible to map out every day of your journey and know how far you should expect to be on the road.  4)The price...at any local bookstore you will pay 21-24 $ while here you pay only 14$ plus 2 bucks shipping and it comes right to your doorstep in a few days.<br />If you are like me, scanning different maps of europe looking for the most helpful one, than you can stop right here, because you will not be disappointed with this one...happy planning and happy travels...	2002-02-15
US	48934780	R15LLXTNIS2PWC	1566913527	482171638	Rick Steves' Best of Europe: Covers Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal (2	Books	5	76	76	N	N	Don't leave home without it!	Heres why 'The Best of Europe' should be your first purchase when planning for a European vacation...<br />My first trip to Europe was 2.5 months long...It was a bear trying to decide what to do. Then I ran across another of Rick's books called 'Europe through the back door' that had a 'whirlwind' two month suggested itinerary (along with shorter ones). It foceused me in on a certain route that would guarantee the biggest bang for my buck. I bought 'The best of' book to find all of the dirty details of the countries on that route. Rick gives great advice on the places to go and NOT to go, best places to stay, best restaurants in town,etc... And what I liked about it is that he doesn't try to cover it all. He covers what he feels are the best places to go and he covers them in detail, even going so far as to give you personal walking tours through Rhine castles, and intricate directions on how to turn on the public washing machine in Arles, France. It is this close attention to detail that I loved. I knew what hotel, which restaurants and which museums to visit in Paris before I ever left London!<br />I used the book for almost all of my trip and found the info to be about 95% accurate. The only errors I found were reflective of the dynamic character of Europe where prices and economies are constantly changing...therefore some prices were increased and some places out of business. But Rick updates his books every year and therefore reduces the chances you will find bum info.<br />On my second trip I tried to use another guidebook that had been recommended and I hated it. The majority of the hotels and restaurants covered were above and beyond my budget and all of the places were packed...no trips to hidden away gems were discussed in this book, unlike Ricks backdoor hideaways. Added to this was the fact that the book didn't distinguish between places that were awesome and those that were a bore. If Lands End, England is not worth a 3 hour train ride than tell me! (and it wasn't)<br />Rick is opinionated and biased towards certain places and I love it. In Europe your time is expensive and you should plan it carefully. Use Ricks 7 day, 10 day, 14 day, 1 month, or 2 month best of europe itineraries and much of your planning is taken care of. Also get 'Europe through the back door' for in depth trip packing and planning and Ricks 'Guides to' the individual countries for even more in depth touring of Europe. The best book to use in my opinion...nd it wasn't)<br />Rick is opinionated and biased towards certain places and I love it. In Europe your time is expensive and you should plan it carefully. Use Ricks 7 day, 10 day, 14 day, 1 month, or 2 month best of europe itineraries and much of your planning is taken care of. Also get 'Europe through the back door' for in depth trip packing and planning and Ricks 'Guides to' the individual countries for even more in depth touring of Europe. The best book to use in my opinion...	2002-02-14
US	48934780	R3QJ4A4BFCLO72	0312270453	628788904	Let's Go Europe 2002	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Time is Money	First of all...If you are going to any of the western European countries then narrow your research by buying Lets Go: WESTERN Europe, 2002.  This review will be more specifically for that book.<br />This book is a necessity for any independent trip to Europe. It covers everything from lodging, restaurants, what to do, sample itineraries, language guide, city maps, culture and history.  A very thick and well researched book...but to really nail down your trip before you go you must bite the bullet and couple this book with at least one other if not two other books.  First is Rick Steves Best of Series.  Either choose his best of europe or best of the individual country you plan to visit.  Rick's book complements the let's go series by being picky...he covers only the places which he considers worthy; and while this may miss many worthy places you are assured of hitting the top spots.  Use 'lets go' to find the other out of the way spots.  The other book to pick up is the DK writers Eyewitness series, and once again you can choose either Eyewitness Europe or Eyewitness of the country you choose.  These are great books because they show you so many pictures of the places to visit that you can see for yourself if it looks like the type of place you would like to go.  All three books are worth their weight in gold when you arrive in Europe fully prepared with your itinery completely planned.<br />I know this combo is expensive (way cheaper here than in your local bookstore...saves 25 bucks) but when you are spending a fortune going to europe an extra 50 bucks in books will help make every minute count.  Instead of wasting an hour every morning trying to decipher what to do you will be halfway through your tour of the local dungeon at a hidden castle you would never have known about without these books...Good luck and happy travels!	2002-02-14
US	48934780	R1JM1PP2W0NTRV	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	4	13	16	N	N	PASS THE OXYGEN!!!	I must make this review short as finishing this bohemoth of a book has thoroughly exhausted me!<br />Why 4 stars?  An unbelievable epic that takes you on a grand tour through the history of Europe, but one that, necessarily, saps you of all strength.  It is an overwhelming book, filled with an unimagineable amount of info, that will leave you begging for the end.<br />Don't take this review the wrong way...It is an excellent book, written in a flowing manner, by an author who is well qualified and gifted enough to complete the project.  But do not undertake the reading of this book expecting to breeze through thousands of years in a couple of weeks and instantly understand European history.  This book takes much pondering and some re-reading to grasp even a small part of it.  An excellent candidate for a second reading, unfortunately I could never again labor through the 50 hours needed to complete it.  My mind now needs a break...SOMEONE PASS ME THE COMICS!!!	2002-01-24
US	48934780	R39LKDEC4VTRBV	0891416064	748053548	Platoon Leader	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I LITERALLY NEVER PUT IT DOWN!!!	Well I found a book that ranks with Macdonalds' Company Commander, the best military memoir ever.  Platoon leader is an unbelievable glimpse into the life of a typical platoon leader sent into the bush of Vietnam.  After reading this book it is obvious why the Army chose it as required reading for officer candidate school.  Macdonough describes clearly and with brutal honesty his tour as a young LT sent in the fight with no idea what to do.  His platoon was on an isolated outpost and has to not only spend the days patrolling but endures the nights of fierce enemy attacks.  Here it is described in such a flowing exciting manner that I finished it in one sitting.  This is no 'glory of war' type memoir, but a plain portrayal of the senselessness and viciousness of war.  Truly one of the classic military memoirs ever written!	2001-12-05
US	48934780	R3VUKC4DTT0KTI	0140265473	219042777	Vietnam: A History	Books	3	176	203	N	N	AVERAGE OF 5 AND 1 IS 3!!!	Should you buy this book???<br />It depends what you are looking for...Karnow was in 'Nam as a reporter for 25 years and is probably the most qualified writer alive to write about it.  He met with all of the top officials in the south and north Vietnamese Govts and had informants in our own govt to help with details.  So if you are looking for a Political history of the war, 'the why we were there and what kept us there' kind of topics, then this is a five star must read.  But if you are looking for details on the fighting and on individual battles then look elsewhere because this book has little to none of that.  You will find out why and when soldiers were first sent to nam but you will not find out what they did or felt once they were there.<br />Political history = 5 stars<br />Military history = 1 star	2001-12-05
US	48934780	RMEW2S27LCSZV	1566912393	694886108	Rick Steves' Best of Europe 2001	Books	5	22	23	N	N	DONT LEAVE HOME WITHOUT IT!	Heres why 'The Best of Europe' should be your first purchase when planning for a European vacation...<br />My first trip to Europe was 2.5 months long...It was a bear trying to decide what to do.  Then I ran across another of Rick's books called 'Europe through the back door' that had a 'whirlwind' two month suggested itinerary (along with shorter ones).  It foceused me in on a certain route that would guarantee the biggest bang for my buck.  I bought 'The best of' book to find all of the dirty details of the countries on that route.  Rick gives great advice on the places to go and NOT to go, best places to stay, best restaurants in town,etc...  And what I liked about it is that he doesn't try to cover it all.  He covers what he feels are the best places to go and he covers them in detail, even going so far as to give you personal walking tours through Rhine castles, and intricate directions on how to turn on the public washing machine in Arles, France.  It is this close attention to detail that I loved.  I knew what hotel, which restaurants and which museums to visit in Paris before I ever left London!<br />I used the book for almost all of my trip and found the info to be about 95% accurate.  The only errors I found were reflective of the dynamic character of Europe where prices and economies are constantly changing...therefore some prices were increased and some places out of business.  But Rick updates his books every year and therefore reduces the chances you will find bum info.<br />On my second trip I tried to use another guidebook that had been recommended and I hated it.  The majority of the hotels and restaurants covered were above and beyond my budget and all of the places were packed...no trips to hidden away gems were discussed in this book, unlike Ricks backdoor hideaways.  Added to this was the fact that the book didn't distinguish between places that were awesome and those that were a bore.  If Lands End, England is not worth a 3 hour train ride than tell me! (and it wasn't)<br />Rick is opinionated and biased towards certain places and I love it.  In Europe your time is expensive and you should plan it carefully.  Use Ricks 7 day, 10 day, 14 day, 1 month, or 2 month best of europe itineraries and much of your planning is taken care of.  Also get 'Europe through the back door' for in depth trip packing and planning and Ricks 'Guides to' the individual countries for even more in depth touring of Europe.  The only book to use in my opinion...an tell me! (and it wasn't)<br />Rick is opinionated and biased towards certain places and I love it.  In Europe your time is expensive and you should plan it carefully.  Use Ricks 7 day, 10 day, 14 day, 1 month, or 2 month best of europe itineraries and much of your planning is taken care of.  Also get 'Europe through the back door' for in depth trip packing and planning and Ricks 'Guides to' the individual countries for even more in depth touring of Europe.  The only book to use in my opinion...	2001-11-26
US	48934780	R19YDGBRY1HQLC	0440236339	947099579	The Road to Arnhem: A Screaming Eagle in Holland (World War II Library)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	You have to fill in the blank!	First of all...since this book is so cheap and fills in the gap between two of the best WWII books out there (currahee and 7 roads) it is on my must read list...and with its length it is an easy 2 day read.  But I must admit I was just a little bit disappointed...maybe because of Burgett's other two books I became an action junky, but this book seemed to never get going.  He does give wonderful insight into the market garden operation and his writing, as usual, is easy flowing and descriptive.  But his unit doesn't seem to run into alot of trouble, and if they did it wasn't portrayed in the fashion of his normandy and bastogne experience.  Please don't think I am criticizing one of our nations heroes and one of my personal favorites, but I imagined the holland fight to be a bit hairier and those looking for a WWII memoir are probably looking for the same thing.<br />a great read however and for the price and length a must buy...	2001-11-21
US	48934780	R1EF6C5R8HA9JM	0306807858	641658874	Strong Men Armed: The United States Marines Against Japan	Books	5	24	25	N	N	HE DID IT AGAIN!	Those of you who are unfamiliar with Mr Leckie have been missing out.  He is one of the premier military historians, not only because of his excellent writing style, but because he is a combat veteran and can therefore associate with his subject.  He has written wonderful general histories of all of America's wars, including the best WWII summary, Delivered from Evil.<br />But this book stands tall among all of his other writings because this one was personal.  Leckie is a veteran of many bloody battles with the first Marine division in WWII and therefore knows quite well what he is talking about.  Here he takes you on a sweeping journey, as the marines battle the japs across the Pacific.  His writing is awesome!  He always keeps you on the hook, and as you speed through his very short chapters, you find it hard to find a place to stop.  This is a very easy read, including well drawn maps, that will give you a good overall history of the Pacific campaign and still show you the war from the individuals perspective on every page.<br />One of the classics of Pacific WWII literature!!!	2001-11-21
US	48934780	R211CWQQ6LQYVZ	0877956596	909645097	Combat WW II: Pacific Theater of Operations	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Best of the pacific series	You can't beat this book for an exciting quick overview of the war in the Pacific.  The author has taken each of the most important events and found someone who was there to write a history of that event.  You have the story of a sailor at Pearl Harbor, a Captain at Midway, a Marine at Guadalcanal, an Australian on New Guinea, a Sub captain in the Philipines, an army coorespondent on Iwo Jima, and many more.  All of the stories are of decent length to cover the event and are extremely exciting.  They have led me to start reading Leckie's 'Strong Men Armed' and Hough's 'Island War'.  Though this book is out of print it is fairly easy to find at one of the used book stores such as abe or here at Amazon.  Check this one out and don't forget it's companion 'combat:European Theater'.	2001-11-14
US	48934780	R1BOHO39H382RV	0804115664	632304392	Six Silent Men: 101st LRP/Rangers	Books	5	8	10	N	N	CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS!!	What a great book!  This has to be one of the most exciting, action packed and (despite what some other erroneous reviewers have said) well written vietnam history/memoirs out there.<br />'Marty' takes us on a sweeping adventure of the first two years of the LRRP's existence.  He delves into their training in great detail and then throws you into their first mission...and lookout, the action doesn't stop until the last page.  In fact most of the book is a narrative of their individual missions...these missions were usually 6 men, alone in NVA territory, whose job it was to obtain info on the enemy, including location, numbers, type of weapons, etc... Many times the team would be compromised and have to fight their way out of danger, occasionally losing (never leaving) members of the team, but always inflicting heavy casualties on the NVA.  Their are some heart stopping missions in here that you will not believe.  I simply could not put this book down.  And this is coming from a reader who is usually 100% WWII!  This book has seriously sparked my interest in learing more about Vietnam and our men's role in that much maligned war.  If you enjoy war stories then you would LOVE this book!	2001-10-26
US	48934780	RFCPBEN65PVXZ	0811726827	276190662	Beyond the Beachhead: The 29th Infantry Division in Normandy	Books	5	18	20	N	N	IN THE TOP 3!	Of the scores of WWII histories I have read, this book has got to be in the top 3 (with Burgetts '7 roads' and Macdonalds 'Company Commander').  It traces the history of the 29th Division (including the Stonewallers of Civil War fame) from training, across the bullet infested beaches of Omaha, to the horrors of the Norman Bocage.  It gives a day by day account of the drive for St.Lo that shows WWII combat at its worst.  For once I have even found a book that has good maps!<br />But there is much more than combat recorded here.  Like 'The Deadly Brotherhood', this book takes time to describe some of the elementary parts of warfare such as equipment comparisons with the Germans, communication techniques, and infantry tactics unique to Normandy.  And it describes these in an extremely interesting manner.  So interesting that, despite being very busy I finished it in under a week.<br />Overall, for a great history of the Normandy campaign and a grisly picture of WWII combat, this book can't be beat!	2001-10-15
US	48934780	R1JU768KIKCWHK	0891416552	829237683	The Deadly Brotherhood: The American Combat Soldier in World War II	Books	5	26	26	N	N	GOTTA SEE THIS!	Despite what other reviewers may have said, I believe this is a much needed addition to any WWII library.  Overall 'The Deadly Brotherhood' is a well written book that contains almost everything you need to know about a GI's life during WWII.<br /><br />The book is divided into sections that discuss a variety of topics from a GI's food and weapons to what it was like to actually face a german tank with a rifle or see 10 screaming japanese running at you with bayonets fixed.  It discusses things that most WWII writers assume you already know...For example what is the difference between a C,K, and D ration or between a Schu mine and a bouncing betty?  How was the army organized and what exactly are the different types of weapons the GI used? What was the difference between combat in the Pacific and in Germany?  Questions such as these and more are answered.  True, for the seasoned WWII reader much of this will be common sense knowledge, but for those who want to understand the basics of combat infantry during WWII, this book is for you.<br /><br />Most importantly, the author tries to stay out of the way and let the vet talk.  Most of the book is a comment by the author followed by the quote of a veteran, so you get to hear many stories told here for the first time.<br /><br />Once again, a great addition to your library...	2001-10-10
US	48934780	R16FWBF2M4ZP82	0891417141	741539973	On Time, On Target: The World War II Memoir of a Paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another Airborne Memoir!	LOOKING FOR A QUICK REVIEW?:  Great book, written by an airborne vet that fought in every major 82nd campaign from June 6, 1944 to VE Day.<br />LOOKING FOR DETAIL?:  The author was a forward artillery observer whose job it was to hang with an infantry platoon and direct shells into enemy concentrations.  He was therefore always in harms way and has many death defying stories to tell.  He fought in all of the major campaigns from D-Day to Market Garden to the Bulge to the Rhine, was captured by the SS..and still lived to tell the world what he had seen.  This fact alone should justify purchasing this book.<br />But for an added bonus there is more...Not only does McKenzie tell his story but he adds the feelings and sentiments of the times so that the reader gets an idea of what life was like during the 'greatest generation'.<br />Although the writing style is sometimes laborious and he has a tendency to jump around, this does not take away from the effect of the book.  In fact it gives you the feeling that this is just a normal guys story...which is in fact the most important story of all.	2001-10-10
US	48934780	R21SIYZMADLWIO	0440236304	35995058	Currahee!: A Screaming Eagle at Normandy	Books	5	19	20	N	N	WAIT A MINUTE!!!	If you havn't read this book you are in for a treat!<br />With the recent release of Ambrose' 'Band of Brothers' on HBO there has been an overdue increase of interest in the Screaming Eagles of WWII.  This book is what first interested me.  This is the first in a series of four books written by a regular trooper of the 101st...And what a series it is.  This set is considered by most to be one of the best memoirs ever written about war.  Here is exposed the fear and tradgedy of a real battlefield.  Burgett has you on the edge of your seat for the entire ride from the unbearable training in the hot Southern sun to the terrors of D-Day and the battle around Carentan.  This is no holds barred, exposed in all its raw detailed writing at its best!<br />Please be sure to couple this book with the next three, including the number one WWII book (in my opinion), Seven roads to Hell.  Together this set allows an unforgettable glimpse into the life of a WWII paratrooper!<br />If you want the complete experience, read 'Rendezvous with Destiny' (see my review) for the complete unit history of the 101st, and do so before this memoir.	2001-10-02
US	48934780	R36QJ8Z8NOVZUG	051508624X	713408252	Night Drop The American Airborne Invasion of Normandy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You want detail?  YOU GOT DETAIL!	Think you know alot about the awesome 82nd and 101st during D-day?..well if you havn't read SLAM's book then think again...This book flattened me with the amount of minute detail it covered about individuals while maintaining the overall picture of what the divisions were up to.  You will find out about individuals who took certain bridges and crossroads that are never mentioned in bigger histories.  Want to know what the men were thinking during the battles? Well SLAM asked them during the war and records it hear for all to hear.  You will absolutely love this book.  It is sad, exciting, heart wrenching and will make you proud to be from the same country as these awesome men!  The only problem is finding the book...do a rare book search on the internet and should be able to find an old copy (found mine for 4 bucks).  Good luck and enjoy!	2001-09-30
US	48934780	RSKQQ6G0UH64E	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A MAGNIFICENT MONSTER!!!!	Without a doubt, this has to be one of the most important history books ever written!  Let's look at why...<br />1)The author:  His credentials to write this book are unbeatable.  He lived among the Nazis as a correspondent from their birth till half way through the war.  Because of this he got to see and hear all the key players and personally meet many of them.  This gave him great insight into Germany and germans during the growth of the Nazi virus.  Couple this with the fact that he was an action journalist, and was therefore an extremely gifted writer, and his credentials are truly unbeatable.<br />2)Subject: Although this subject is well covered, it has not been covered before or since this writing as thoroughly as in this book.  Shirer had access to ALL of the Nazi papers, including diariers, memos and minutes, and you therefore get an insiders view on what was going on inside the top secret meetings of the Nazi leaders.  Here, exposed for all to see, are the diablolical reasonings for everything they did or tried to do.  Here spelled out step by step is the entire history from the youth of Hitler to the death by strangalation by the russian and allied armies. It has sections on the history of Germany back to Martin Luther, when the mindset of the german people was developed that would allow for a tyrant like Hitler.  Sections of the book also give an insider's view into the combat decisions, Concentration camps, basic principles of Nazism, and the normal German's pied piper attitude.  It cover's EVERYTHING!<br />3)Lessons: It is possible to draw lessons from this well of historical knowledge that will blow you away.  It has been said that when we stop learning from history we are bound to repeat it and this book clearly portrays the evil that has already occurred and is possible if we don't watch world affairs closely.  The U.S. may get derided for meddling in others' affairs, but this book shows the danger that is possible if we don't!  We also need to learn not to nourish the seeds of racism as Hitler did in his youth that led to the eventualy death of 40 million people.  So many great things can be learned from this book...<br />Overall: It is simply a great book.  One of the best I have ever read!  It never bogs down...I finished it in a month, all 1500 pages.<br />In conclusion: If you havn't read this book you absolutely must!!!  You will not regret it!!!n not to nourish the seeds of racism as Hitler did in his youth that led to the eventualy death of 40 million people.  So many great things can be learned from this book...<br />Overall: It is simply a great book.  One of the best I have ever read!  It never bogs down...I finished it in a month, all 1500 pages.<br />In conclusion: If you havn't read this book you absolutely must!!!  You will not regret it!!!	2001-07-11
US	48934780	RKLWWW7BHZVAY	1570032556	390087434	South Carolina: A History	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Most controversial state in the Union!?!	Overall this was an excellent book on what is most likely the most controversial state in the Union...Since the first landing in St. Helena Parish, through the Colonial period and the Civil War era to the flag controversy in the late 1990's, South Carolinians have been different, in almost every way, then the rest of the country.  While NC's motto may be 'first in flight', South Carolina's could very well be 'first to fight'.  Their instigation of the Revolutionary war and the Civil war, not to mention dozens of other controversial actions on the part of some of our ancestral fire-eaters make this book not just a history every SC-olian should read but one that every American should read as well.  Like it or not, SC has played an extremely vital role in the path our country has taken and the culture we have developed. This book attempts to cover this role...  While some of the book may bog down, the majority of the chapters are very well researched, flow smoothly, and are extremely interesting.  You will find such topics as Colonial life in SC, Antebellum life in SC, SC-olinans in the Revolutionary War, SC-olina's role in starting the Civil War, how SC bucked reconstruction, etc...Overall, if you are a fan of good history then you will enjoy this book.  If you are looking for action then try a couple books about SC's role in the fighting of the Civil War...'Kershaw's brigade' and 'the Stuck eagle: South Carolina Infantry in the Civil War'.  Enjoy...	2001-06-04
US	48934780	R1KCJB83KNF1VP	0686262964	763463183	Rendezvous With Destiny	Books	5	2	5	N	N	UPDATE	I put an address in my above review where you can find this book but it was taken out...write me at reihm@yahoo.com to find out where to buy this book...	2001-04-16
US	48934780	R2E0QGOS8AZEIH	0964061120	933874614	A Mile in Their Shoes: Conversations With Veterans of World War II	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Watch out Steven Ambrose...part II	This is a spectacular collection of oral interviews that the author has collected from an amazing group of vets.  Here you get first hand accounts of what it was like to have been a G.I.  And like his book '9 lives', Elson has included a wide range of stories from different players in the war.  He sat down and questioned each vet and was able to bring out thrilling and little known facts of the war in Europe.  In fact some of these stories are found no where else, in no other books.  My particular favorite was the interview with the paratroop...Elson was able to get the soldier to open up and share the terror and the excitement of combat.  The stories are told so well that you can actually see, for example, the rain of artillery shells that pounded down as 'all of Holland would bounce 10 feet in the air', and could feel how close the speaker was to breaking down.  I know the emotion was high during these interviews because you can feel it just by reading it.  This is a gem of a book!  And while you're at it check out 'nine lives'.	2001-04-09
US	48934780	R2391QPE6O5EYR	0964061155	568976427	9 Lives: An Oral History	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Watch out Steven Ambrose!	You have chanced upon an absolutely wonderful collection of WW2 Vets' stories!  Aaron Elson has collected some of the most exciting and informative stories I have yet to read on the European Theater.  This book is basically a group of mini-memoirs that range in scope from paratroops to tank personnel to frontline infantry.  Each one tells his or her(yes women did serve!) own story in his or her own way but all of them are fascinating and will give you a different glimpse of how average americans saw the war.  You will enjoy this one!  And while you're at it check out 'a mile in their shoes' by Elson.	2001-04-09
US	48934780	RU8VZ57I709FC	0686262964	763463183	Rendezvous With Destiny	Books	5	22	22	N	N	THE history of the 101st!	Before i start... is where you will have to go to find this and other older unit histories. now...<br />This is the only necessary history of the famed 'screaming eagle' division during WW2.  Written by two platoon leaders of the 101st, right after the war, and with complete access to all division records, are 3 reasons why this is the only book you need on the 101st.  It covers, completely, the history of training and combat during the war, from the top brass decisions before Normandy to the individual stories from the foxholes surrounding Bastogne.  In fact, much of the book is taken from other memoirs, published by actual soldiers of the 101st, like Webster and Koskimaki.  If you have any interest in this famous division then you need to find this book at ... and pick it up.  You won't be sorry...	2001-04-09
US	48934780	R2LEC140DAA96J	1572490179	354132140	The Struck Eagle: A Biography of Brigadier General Micah Jenkins, and a History of the Fifth South Carolina Volunteers and the Palmetto Sharpshooters	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Hidden Gem!	You have chanced upon the reviews of one of the best of all the Civil War Biographies!  In fact, if it wern't for Robertson's bio on Stonewall this would top them all.  Although Jenkins' is little known outside of South Carolina his exploits were no less awesome then some of the better known generals from the South.  Micah fought in some of the most ferocious battles of the Civil War, and always led from the front.  Near my house in Columbia is a museum where you can see his broken sword and jacket pierced by numerous bullets that he wore during the Seven Days' Battle around Richmond.  This battle is particularly interesting and extremely well described.  This book will not bore and is not overwhelmingly biased as some Civil War books tend to be, but it is a joy to read and will definitely be a great addition to anyone's library!	2001-04-04
US	48934780	R3Q2GQND62YDC8	0440215749	719663595	A Blood-Dimmed Tide: The Battle of the Bulge by the Men Who Fought It (Dell World War II Library)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	C'Mon it's only 5 bucks!	Just for the fact that this book is filled with first hand accounts of the Battle of the Bulge should be enough to convince any WW2 Buff to buy it.  But add on the fact that it is only 5 bucks and noone interested in history should pass this up.  Other reviewers are a little off base when they state that this book is a complete history (it doesn't try to be) and when they state it is boring (I have finished it in under a week); neither of these claims are true.  It is a very important book because it is filled  with guys stories who were actually there and that is the most important thing you can get from the history books.  Couple this book with the monumental 'Time for Trumpets' and you have a powerful one-two punch on the Battle of the Bulge!	2001-04-04
US	48934780	R2YHQL08INXUQZ	0688151574	62608090	A Time for Trumpets: The Untold Story of the Battle of the Bulge	Books	5	13	14	N	N	I can't believe it covered the whole thing!	This book is a monumental work! Macdonald takes the biggest battle in American History and actually makes it understandable! Unlike many historians he writes in a down to earth, descriptive manner that never bores or tires.  I finished this 700 pg book in just over 2 weeks, because I could not put it down!  Should you buy it?  Well if you are looking for a book on this battle, there is no better one out there!  Macdonald was actually there as well which adds something to the book that Toland or Eisenhower couldn't in their versions. It is well covered with maps as well which makes all the difference in a book on a battle (here is a suggestion: take all the small maps in the book; xerox them; cut them out and tape into one large map that you have in your left hand as you read-I promise it helps!).  I don't want to bore you further with a long review so I will add in conclusion that this is one book you will not be sorry you bought!  Couple this one with Astor's 'Blood Dimmed Tide' and you have  a powerful one-two punch on the Bloody Battle of the Bulge...	2001-03-21
US	48934780	R36HQPUEFUQOKN	1580800386	858058989	Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II	Books	5	24	24	N	N	C'mon Yall...Its a Classic!	Before I even start with my opinion...if you don't have this book and you have even the smallest WW2 library than stop right here and pick it up.  It is the WW2 Infantry memoir Classic written by a guy who was destined to become the Official Historian of the Army.  Macdonald doesn't say anything about his career after the war in this book, nor does he spend half the book talking about his training.  He dives right into the War and spends every drop of ink trying to describe what the experience was like.  His account of the outpost over the Siegfried and his companies' part in the Bulge are terrifying and ferocious.  His position at the head of a company afforded him with the luxury of realizing the big picture while still having contact with the front lines.  In fact he had such close contact that he was awarded the Purple Heart for a bullet in the leg during a patrol in the Bulge.  There are many interesting stories and a lot of action, my personal favorite part of war memoirs.  Get familiar with the part of the 2nd Division though for there are no maps:(...  But despite that it is an excellent book...and a requirement for every WW2 library!	2001-02-27
US	48934780	R2KUMQ6RIN4TU2	0817309780	677405824	G Company's War: Two Personal Accounts of the Campaigns in Europe, 1944-1945	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Can't judge a book by its cover	When I first got this book through the mail I said UGH!  It is the ugliest Pepto Bismol color you have ever seen...but luckily the cover is not why you read the book.  Inside are the combined memoirs of two members of the yankee division(26th) during the fight across France and Germany.  The book is not always exciting but does offer a very good glimpse into the mind and life of a frontline infantry soldier.  The combination of the two is good in that it offers a Lt and a pfc\sgt's perspective on the war.  That combination can also get a bit confusing because you have to keep two separate stories in your head as you are reading.  The editor does try and keep you up to date with a daily comment as to what the company was doing overall, but a vague mention of a random french or german town does not always help develop a picture in your head of what is going on.  That is why I deducted a star.  But the book is very good and worth adding to your collection if you are interested in the ETO during WW2.	2001-02-16
US	48934780	R2H2JVWBBP1ST3	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Packed full of info!	'Six Armies' is a great discussion of the pre-invasion preparation before Normandy, through the beach and hedgerow fighting to the Liberation of Paris, telling the history and actions of six different armies who were involved.  The amazing part to me was how he discussed the history of the US for example and smoothly flowed into their part in the war and then just as smoothly started his discussion of the history and part of the next army.  In the end you have a very comprehensive discussion of the War in Europe from June through August of 1944.  He discusses events such as Dieppe and the Polish Home Army siege and the previous exploits and disasters of the individual armies and tells about the unique qualities that each army had.  Keegan writes in a very english/philosophical manner and therefore it is not as quick a read as some of the unit histories but is still packed full of info and action and is a very good book!	2001-02-01
US	48934780	R3THBBRQKMJO26	1853266779	460289688	The Struggle for Europe (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	1	8	21	N	N	Dry and Disappointing	I had to do a rare book search for this book and when it came I couldn't wait to dive in.  But my enthusiasm quickly subsided into utter boredom.  Maybe the author was there and maybe some consider this a WW2 classic but I found it very dry reading and very easy to put down.  Besides that fact, it is very biased for Montgomery and when there was blame to place it usually and many times unfairly went to the Americans.  For a good history of the War in Normandy try Keegans' 'six armies' or one of the individual's histories like 'roll me over' or 'if you survive' and leave this book where it belongs...in a rare book store.	2001-02-01
US	48934780	R2WZBYNO7U10AA	0804100039	815959810	If You Survive: From Normandy to the Battle of the Bulge to the End of World War II, One American Officer's Riveting True Story	Books	5	124	127	N	N	Unbelievable	If you are looking for an action packed, non-fiction story of front line combat during WWII then look no further.  I have read quite a few personal histories written by former GI's describing their experience in Europe, but very few have been as explosive and action packed as this one. Wilson fought from the St.Lo breakout in July, through France to the Hurtgen, Held the edge of the Bulge in the Ardennes and fought his way across the Rhine into Germany.  He was mainly a platoon leader and was therefore, out of necessity, on the front line most of the time. He doesn't write about his home life or even much about camp life seeming to stick to his experience of confronting the enemy and teaching his men to do the same.  This book is very cheap and a very easy read so it would be a shame not to pick it up.  You won't regret it!	2001-01-31
US	48934780	R1WTTEXRBRDPSA	0671867369	867939499	Band of Brothers : E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	These guys were GOOD!	I picked this book up after getting hooked by Donald Burgett in his books Currahee and Seven roads to Hell and because Ambrose is a name to trust when buying WWII books, and was not disappointed what-so-ever!  This book discusses one specific company of Screaming Eagles and their 3 main campaigns in Normandy, Holland, and Bastogne.  It vividly portrays the terror and tears of what it was like to be there.  It covers  training in the states before Normandy, the battles, and finally the celebration when the war is over and the eagles find themselves in Hitler's nest surrounded with Nazi wine.  But by following only one company you grow to really like this group...Great book, pick it up!	2001-01-19
US	48934780	R3GEIEMVVP2BIX	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great sequel to D-Day...	If you have read and been captivated by Ambrose's D-Day and felt like it stopped just when the action started then here is the sequel you have been looking for.  This book picks up on June 7, 1944, when the Allies grip on French soil was still very precarious.  As the name implies, however, this is not so much a study on tactical moves as on the moves made by the true victor of WWII...the citizen soldier from all parts of the U.S.  Yes I said the U.S. because this book concentrates on GI joe and not the Allies as a whole (by the way for a great account of all the fighting armies try 6 armies in normandy by Keegan).  It carries you through the bocage of Normandy, Up through France and Belgium and into the Reich, all the while telling of individuals who gave all and sometimes more.  Pick this up along with D-Day for a great picture of the American part in the European War...	2001-01-19
US	48934780	RFKWGZBNVCZCQ	0804116059	103964996	Roll Me Over: An Infantryman's World War II (Presidio War Classic. World War II)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must for any WW2 library	If you are like me and constantly expanding your WW2 library than this is definitely one to add.  It is a great personal account of the ETO from Sept 44 to the surrender 9 months later, written as a journal on scraps of paper during the war and preserved until later to be pieced together for this book.  So what you have is an actual diary account and not one written by a vet years later when the memory has faded some.  Despite what other reviewers may say the author fills this book with very fluid descriptions and has very candid and common opinions on the war, other soldiers, and the enemy.  It is not all action packed but it gives you something most WW2 books miss...an actual feel for what it was like for the GI day by day.  Pick this one up, you won't regret it.	2001-01-05
US	48934780	R1PLPPOXZDFDZE	0891416803	484214539	Seven Roads to Hell: A Screaming Eagle at Bastogne	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Awesome book	If you are looking for a personal account of the siege of Bastogne during the battle of the bulge and the tremendous feat of the 101 Screaming Eagles or are just looking for a great non fiction thriller then get this book.  Burgett was a member of the 506th and fought in some of the most bloody battles around Bastogne.  But besides the awesome fighting sequences he describes the misery of the foxhole, freezing temps and patrols.  But look for the cheap 5 dollar version of the books because it is the same thing including the pics.  And if you like this then go back to the start and read Burgetts Curahee...an awesome account of his part in the airdrops during Normandy, also available in the cheap version...	2000-12-31
US	48934780	R3FPJ4CEDPWXN	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	1	4	N	N	An easy and wonderful read	For 50 years now contoversy had raged around D-day...what they should have done different, who deserves criticism, who deserves praise, etc.  Historians tend to line up along nationalistic boundaries with Brits and Americans glorifying their own countries contributions and ignoring the others'.  While Ambrose does fall into this tendency a bit it does not take a thing away from this book.  If you are an American and want to find out what your country did and what it was like to be crawling through the surf at Omaha on June 6, 1944 then this is a must read.  Do not worry about other critics from other countries criticizing this book as American Propoganda.  It is simply a history of Americans, by an American and for Americans.  If you are from England and want a brit colored history of d-day try Wilmott's 'Struggle for Europe', but if you are an American and want our side then pick this one up...you won't be sorry!	2000-11-22
US	48934780	R1VWILTXSNO5P2	0060915358	112369648	Delivered from Evil: The Saga of World War II: The First Complete One-Volume History	Books	5	2	3	N	N	VERY hard to put down	As the title implies this is truly a complete, one volume history of the second World War.  Leckie, as usual, never misses a beat in describing  every aspect of the war including GI joes perspective, the overall  Strategies, the political battles, espionage, the awful horrors of the  Japanese and Nazis, the homefronts, etc.  This is not only a great book for  a beginner to start reading about WW2 but also one for the veteran who  simply wants a great book that is truly hard to put down...even despite  Leckies usual short chapters.  The only criticism that can be made against  this book is the usual one made against history books = needs more maps!  But none the less you will find this a great read and very informative and  worth the money!	2000-08-29
US	48934780	R2A8OXST8T7PTU	0890290547	49151436	Giant in Gray: A Biography of Wade Hampton of South Carolina	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hard to find but worth the time!	Judging from the hometowns of all the other reviewers it is apparent that Wade Hampton is not a household name in any other place than South  Carolina.  That is a shame.  His role in the southern army was crucial,  especially in battles such as First Manassas, the Peninsula campaign and  the last gasp ones around Petersburg (although he was never senior to JEB  Stuart in command as you read above).  This book is a very quick summary of  a very interesting man.  It makes for a great addition to your library and  is definitely worth the search for this out of print book.  If you fail  here any Big bookstore can order you a copy.	2000-08-16
US	48934780	R2N308CDVTYNB3	0028650646	357317671	Stonewall Jackson : The Man, the Soldier, the Legend	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An Absolute Must Have	I will make this review short and sweet...You must read this incredible book about this incredible man!  You most assuredly will not be sorry.	2000-08-15
