US	48942268	R2VKK91XMJYS0	0451204727	745684315	Black Cross	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Best adventure novel ever...period!!	I remember Quentin Tarantino mentioning in a tv interview that 'Where Eagles Dare' was in his opinion the ultimate men-on-a-mission movie. Well, in that case 'Black Cross' is the ultimate men-on-a-mission novel.<br />I won't go into the plot (see other reviews for that). I also won't go into the book that much. I just want to give my whole hearted two VERY BIG thumbs up to this novel. It had Stephen King raving and I completely agree with him. <br />I understand Greg Iles moved onto other thriller subgenres with later novels and that's a shame. I read a few of them and 'Black Cross' still is his best work. Without ruining anything I think I can best describe this as Alastair Maclean pushed into overdrive, but besides that Iles also doesn't glamorize the war or forgets it's horrors (the concentration camp where most of the action takes place is enough evidence of that). If it's Maclean, than cross him with 'Schindler's List' and you get the idea. <br />I read this book last Christmas and from page one (a flash forward to 1995 so to call) it had me hooked. All I can say is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2004-06-26
US	48942268	R24NRDO8CU0LED	0450422682	589382617	Valley of Lights	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent cop v.s monster story.	The above pretty well sums it up. That's why I don't want to spend too many words on this book. Trust me, if you like cop procedurals and/ or demonic possession stories you're pretty safe buying this.<br />The cop versus monster story is a somewhat peculiar subgenre (in my opinion anyway). I myself like it and I can think of a few more examples besides VALLEY OF LIGHTS which will be more than worth your time. Think Gary Brandner's CAMERON'S CLOSET and DOOMSTALKER and movies like Denzel Washington's FALLEN and the more obscure, but extremely enjoyable SIXTH POWER starring, above all people; Lou Diamond Phillips.<br />Anyway, back to VALLEY OF LIGHTS. It's a fast, short read with an adrenaline rush of a pace and some pretty good plottwists. Stephen Gallagher shows that's he's more than capable with the horror and gore elements and you wouldn't know that he's British judging from this Arizona based and a 100 percent American cop story. <BR>I can also understand why he's moved on to more mainstream thriller efforts like RED,RED ROBIN and DOWN RIVER. His style's really accessable. I like him, I like his writing, and not only because he used to be a staffwriter on the original DOCTOR WHO tv-series.<br />I'll be reading more of his work in the future, meanwhile VALLEY OF LIGHTS is an excellent starting point, if you want to be introduced to this more than excellent writer.	2002-09-30
US	48942268	R2Z9G8T7Z44JJI	0563538473	558171162	Anachrophobia (Doctor Who)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	As good of an eight doctor story as you can think of.	I'm a pretty big fan of DOCTOR WHO. With the arrival of the internet (and the way it's made easier for a fan in Holland in obtaining WHO related items) my fandom has grown, and over the last few months I must admit it even has become kind of an obsession.<BR>I really like the DOCTOR WHO novels the BBC has churned out these last few years (too bad the've cut back recently) and I am in awe of the more than brilliant writers that since have contributed to this series. Think of people like Mark Gatiss, David McIntee, Christopher Bulis and Lance Parkin.<BR>...And now you can add Jonathan Morris to that list.<br />Although this is the eight and last incarnation of the Doctor (so far anyway, I heard rumors about a new BBC tv-series coming up) ANACHROPHBIA is almost vintage WHO with it's claustrofobic/ under siege/ Pat Throughton kind of setting and the science based theories concerning timetravel and future societies.<BR>I must say I really like the Doctor's latest companions Fitz and Anji and Morris makes the most of them, along with a few great supporting annex guestplayers. There's betrayal, mutations and transformations everywhere.<br />I won't go into the plot (for this please read the Amazon description and the other reviews) I just have to tell you there's some great concepts (something evil lurking in time itself, the greed and profit based future etc) and the icy, snowcovered planet and abandoned, bunkerlike facility as locations really work.<BR>Also worth mentioning is the very creepy bad guy, as represented as a typical English administrative clerk, complete with bowlerhat and umbrella. Man that works! I always thought of DOCTOR WHO as a marriage between science fiction and horror and that guy sure scared me witless.<br />On the strenght of this I also bought Jonathan Morris' other BBC DOCTOR WHO novel; FESTIVAL OF DEATH (featuring another favorite of mine, the fourth doctor). I just can't wait to gobble that one up!<BR>Meanwhile, please take it from me. This isthe best WHO there is.	2002-09-30
US	48942268	R2OHKJXDQMBZXT	052348061X	422535047	Tengu	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Masterton did it again. A masterwork if ever there'll be one	Just finished this book this afternoon and I just HAD to write a review, it was that good.<br />I won't go into the plotdetails, other than that most of the reviewers before me (in my opinion) had this pretty well down as a horror/ thriller kind of book, although I don't think of this as a mystery. The cover and backblurb already gave away too much of the plot for that!<br />I agree with Jimmy Lay that Masterton is an absolute hero to those reading or aspiring to be writers of horror. His books are always clever thought of and usually involve somekind of legend or myth (is this case the TENGU of the title, a Japanese demon) and a band of less than perfect people who have to confront and/ or defeat this evil.<br />I myself am a real gorehound and Masterton never disappoints in that department. Before you go thinking that I'm somekind of sick individual let me just explain that I not only read horror to be scared, but also to be thrilled, downright shocked, and sometimes even revolted. In my opinion horror serves somekind of deep need (fantasy?) in that the things that happen to the characters in these books will never happen to the one who's reading it (we can hope) and that he, or she can safely return to their normal life after been finished with it.<br />Back to the novel. TENGU the novels' most chilling scene is by far the opening. It had me hooked from the beginning and made meread 80 pages of this book in one sitting. It's extremely nasty, shocking and gory (I know, that's precisely the way I want it) and completely blows you away. It's kinda on par with the opening of his later, most sadistis novel MASTER OF LIES.<br />The rest of the book isn't anyless though, and don't you go thinking there's a happy ending in store for you. It all ads up to a brilliant novel.<br />I highly recommend this, and all of Masterton's other works by the way. Thank God I haven't read them all and still have a few copies stashed away for special occasions!	2002-09-30
US	48942268	R38LERRCMQKF3Q	0751501336	64693180	Deadhead	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A little while to live...and nothing to lose!	I first heard of Shaun Hutson as being a British horror writer who was being compared to people like James Herbert (somebody even called him 'Herbert's little brother'). With this novel I found out he can write about so much more than just 'slugs' and 'ghouls in the graveyard'. I understand that since he's steered even more away from the horrorgenre with his later efforts. That may be a pity, but if it's to be his 'evolvement' as a writer...so be it.<br />I guess it started (partially?) with this one. DEADHEAD is more of a suspense/ thriller novel than a horror one. I think Hutson's roots do show in the excessive amounts of violence though. And besides that there are also some unsettling rape and torture scenes...so beware!<br />The book is about this English P.I. who first finds out than he has terminal cancer and than learns that his daughter has been kidnapped by a bunch of pornmovie making perverts.<BR>Next he will do anything to free her. The fact that he doesn't have long to live makes him a loose cannon. Much of the extreme violence sprawls from that.<BR>Also, don't go thinking there will be a happy ending. Let's be honest, in a novel like this there almost can't be one!<br />I found DEADHEAD to be a quick, thrilling read. I read the novel almost a year ago and parts of it have stayed with me since. I guess that makes it a pretty strong book (I have read a lot of other books since). <BR>To sum it up, it's extreme and in no way mainstream (for all you Nicci French/ John Grisham lovers outthere). But I'm a horrorgeek and I am not easily disturbed by a little mayhem and gore. So, I sure was pleased with what mister Hutson dished out for me!<BR>Keep up the good work Shaun!	2002-08-10
US	48942268	R2QGOE4ERUCOOX	0563538147	927083200	Psi-Ence Fiction (Doctor Who)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Out of the Tardis...and into the frying pan.	Although Peter Davison (believe it or not) is my personal favorite DOCTOR WHO (this because of childhood nostalgia I won't go into any further- red) I also am a big fan of Tom Baker's fourth doctor. It's been said he's the ultimate Doctor Who and tv story highlights like GENESIS OF THE DALEKS, PLANET OF EVIL and REVENGE OF THE CYBERMAN are proof of that.<br />So, it was an immense delight for me finding out that PSI-ENCE FICTION featured Baker's fourth doctor and his pre-Xena like female warrior sidekick Leela.<BR>The book is about our favorite characters winding up in modern day England on the campus of a university, were a quirky professor has started all kinds of experiments involving a group of students and their so called 'psychic' powers.<BR>I won't spoil the plot but it involves murder and a device that may be able to destroy the universe (talking about painting yourself a broad canvas, but since it's DOCTOR WHO, I wouldn't expect otherwise). I also loved the pop culture references to THE X-FILES, The MATRIX and, yes...XENA, WARRIOR PRINCES.<br />This is an enjoyable romp, not to heavy on characterisation and almost pulpy in parts. It passes the time and I myself really got a kick out of the murder mystery subplot. Boucher even has one of the main characters saying: 'I'm a sucker for a locked room mystery' at one point.<BR>Well, so am I. And the solution is something that comes as totally unsuspected.<br />As you might have guessed I'm really into WHO books (I even try to hunt down one of Virgin's WHO adventures once in a while). PSI-ENCE FICTION passes the grade for a 'WHO-geek' like me. I just don't know if it's worth reading for somebody else though.<br />I'd give it a little more than three stars, it's just not good enough to receive four. You'll have to read anything by Mark Gatiss, or maybe David McIntee if you want that good a WHO story.	2002-08-08
US	48942268	R22CQRIMGS56J5	0451400054	477170181	Headhunter (Onyx)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Book that started it all.	I've been a big fan of Michael Slade ever since reading his EVIL EYE. This one HEADHUNTER is the first novel in his/ theirs series of horror/mystery/thrillers featuring policemen Robert DeClerq (here still without Zinc Chandler) and the Canadian Special X unit of the Royal Mounted Police.<br />HEADHUNTER is about this serial killer who kills women and takes their heads. The above mentioned unit is called in to track the killer down and a nerve shattering, and extremely deadly game of cat and mous ensues.<br />I refuse to go into the plot any further. I just have to tell you there's this mindboggling twist in the end which turns the book you've just been reading completely on it's head (no pun intented) and had me - as an aspiring writer - seeing green with envy- as brilliant as I thought the ending was. That same twist also makes reading the book for a second time almost a must!<br />HEADHUNTER really is that good a book. I can understand some of the criticism in that Slade doesn't pay all that much attention to the killers motives and his/ their priorities clearly lie with the police procedural-whodunnit aspects of the plot.<BR>For me personally that didn't spoil the fun though and I still give it a maximum score of five stars.<br />I also just have to say a few things about the author. For who doens't know it Michael Slade is the pseudonym for a bunch of Canadian lawyers, and their expertise (and their knowledge of both policework and the justice system) clearly is evident in their books. Besides HEADHUNTER and EVIL EYE I'd also recommend RIPPER and especially GHOUL.<BR>Although I catagorise Slade here as a thrillerwriter the series above all really is horror. It was marketed like that by ONYX in the late eighties and got rave reviews from FANGORIA magazine. Almost un-typically I also found Slade's name under the 'horror section' at my local bookshop. <BR>Having concluded that, there's  (not suprisingly) enough gruesomeness here to give even the most diehard horrorfan a run for his money, and it gets worse (or better?) with every following volume in this series. Just don't go expecting the next Stephen King novel. BE WARNED!	2002-08-07
US	48942268	R1DA4UMY3J4J3D	0671738763	709599217	Lie to Me	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Whatever you do...don't LIE to him!	A madman serial killer enters the house of a wealthy entrepeneur and his beautiful young wife and takes them hostage. The following morning the rich man is dead, the killer is on the run and - although we as readers know otherwise - the wife states that her husband's dead was a suicide!<br />What really happened that night? A worn out police detective is brought in and he spends the rest of the book - as does the reader - trying to solve the mystery. <br />The strength of LIE TO ME clearly lies with it's main character Teddy Cammel. He is this great, completely three dimensional, and, above all flawed human being who becomes obsessed by this case (and as did I) will do almost anything to solve it.<BR>There's this great gimmick (and the title refers to it) that Cammel is kind of a human lie detector and I must say this helps the story roll along nicely and gives LIE TO ME just the extra spice it needs. I LOVED IT!<br />Did I also mention there's some pretty gruesome stuff in here, which I - as a horrorbuff - love, but will (maybe?) turn off more mainstream thriller readers? The serial killer is up to some nasty things when he's cutting of human hands and going after little kids, so all you 'Michael Chrichton/ John Grisham lovers' be warned!<br />To me LIE TO ME is top of the bill. Great suspense and mystery and an excellent police procedural. David Martin really succeeds in pulling the reader into this story and I must say I finished the book in what must be record time.<BR>Teddy Cammel returned in another of Martin's books, CUL-DE-SAC. I already bought that one and I just can't wait to read it!	2002-08-07
US	48942268	RYWSYRALH7PVV	0515117242	424593889	Kindred	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lost some steam in the end...but I'd still recommend it.	The frontcover markets this as a vampire novel. And although there are some similarities with the 'bloodsucker' subgenre I'd still make this out as being something that stands completely on its own.<br />I also own John Gideon's other books CREELY'S COVE and GOLDEN EYES (the last is about a more traditional vampire). I haven't read them though and KINDRED is the one that (as yet) appealed to me the most.<BR>It's about this luitenant (LT in GI-lore) named Kindred who stumbles upon this utterly vile and evil creature in the jungles of Vietnam and - back in America - spends the rest of his (cripled) life trying to undo the curse that's beheld on him.<br />The first part of the book clearly is the best. I thought it was brilliant that the vampiric creature (sorry I have to call it that) was an American interigator of POWS (Prisoners Of War). <BR>He really is the most nasty bad guy to have come along in any book I've read in a long, long time! The things he does really make a Nazi torturer pale in comparison.<BR>The second (and biggest) part of the book was a bit disappointing. To me it came across as a more standard 'innocent soul being seduced by the forces of darkness' kind of novel. There even is a beautiful female henchman who shows up in men's bedrooms and does them all kinds of sexual favours.....that really was a bit too much for me, and totally unrealistic and farfetched.<br />Anyway. Like I said above. I'd still recommend KINDRED though. If only for the really strong scenes in Vietnam and the incredible badguy!<BR>I just hope Gideon's other books DO pack that extra punch.	2002-08-07
US	48942268	R3G1ZG65RWB3B0	0812544706	315362710	Implant	Books	2	5	7	N	N	A good writer, but this is nothing to brag about.	Up and foremost let me state that F. Paul Wilson writes in a fantastic prose and makes his characters come to life in a way so natural I've seen few writers do. He even makes the bad guy totally believable and sympathetic. And that's something that rarely happens in these 'page-turner' kind of thrillers! <br />But all that isn't the problem with IMPLANT.<br />It's just that there isn't any excitement in this book. The plot is SO straight forward. It is revealed early one what's going on and what the motives and means of the antagonist are and that doens't change. There's no plot twists, no big suprise in the end. From page one on I knew where this was going to end. And in all of the almost 400 pages nothing happened that even got me a little excited or had me (at least partially) entertained. I HATED THAT! <br />I won't bother going into the plot (not that there is much to spoil or anything), it's silly and farfetched and not worth to mention. I mean, what are the chances of an evil doctor just happening to be asked to perform cosmetic surgery on the president of the USofA? A doctor with a shady past, I must mention, who happens to be under investigation by the FBI for the deaths of a few US senators. I think the secret service will go around him with a hoolahoop! <BR>And I won't even begin about the lovestory subplot between our heroine Gina and the handsome FBI agent....puh-lease!<BR>I think you get the point.<br />I'm do give this two stars because of mister Wilson's writing skills. When his plotting skills improve I'm sure there will be a higher score.<br />On the plus side, IMPLANT got me interested enough in this writer for me to go and buy some of his other books. I recently purchased both SIBS and THE SELECT and I hope they'll be able to entertain me a little more. This one was totally forgetable though.	2002-08-06
US	48942268	RA1EJKKRIPLT3	0446355321	955788005	Where the Chill Waits	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Underrated classic....and chilling to the bone!	Let me ask all you horrorgeeks a question? When was the last time you were really scared after (or when) reading a horror novel. Me it only happened a few times before, and that was with short stories by Clive Barker and Stephen King. I was also twelve years old at the time, so maybe that's saying something?<br />Anyway, all that changed when this book came along.<br />You guessed it WHERE THE CHILL WAITS was the first horrornovel to come along in a very long time (and I've read dozens of them) that REALLY scared me. I am in awe of T. Chris Martindale for accomplishing that feat, very few writers are that skilled and it's a shame he's only written a handful of books (that I know of). Whatever happened to you? Please don't tell me you're writing police thrillers under a pseudonym!<br />On to the plot. WHERE THE CHILL WAITS is about this bunch of company executives who go on a hunting trip. Before you can say DELIVRANCE meets PET SEMETARY they stumble upon this dead part of the forest (quite literally dead) and, after that, all kinds of weird, and totally frightening things start happening to them.<BR>I won't spoil it, but the plot was incredibly harrowing and unsettling and especially Martindale's descriptions of these 'haunted' woods were spot on and had me at times shaking all over when reading this book.<BR>It's also worth mentioning that when the survivers stumble out of these woods it's only the beginning for something much more evil and vile! INCREDIBLE!<br />Can I praise this writer too much? There have been novels written about Indian terror before (think Graham Masterton and more recently Owl Goingback) but in my opionon nobody does it as good as T. Chris Martindale. <BR>There are also some wonderful light and comedic touches like for example the native Indian guide who just happens to be a big Star Trek fan. GREAT!<br />This book almost had me crying afterwards, not only because it was so scary, but also because it had me yearning for the earlier days of the wonderful eighties and early nineties, when horrorfiction was enjoying a boom like never before and we had outstanding books like this (and for example Robert R. McCammon's 'Mystery Walk') and we didn't all have to buy King's 'Black House' just becauce we were so horror starved and nothing better did come along in a long, long time.<br />Before I get too nostalgic. I have T. Chris Martindale's other books on my shelf. Whenever I get depressed I'll be sure to whip one out. Mister Martindale; YOU RULE!<br />P.S: too bad Amazon didn't let me give this one ten stars!	2002-08-06
US	48942268	RKKK9JANMU8U4	0451202945	677043127	A Witness Above (Frank Palvicek Mysteries)	Books	4	32	36	N	N	An excellent P.I.  novel....	....and what I hope to be the start of a long running series.<br />First off I must admit that I'm not very big on the hardboiled subgenre. I do however like mysteries and police procedurals and I also like reading continuing series which feature a regular cast of characters and a returning locale.<BR>A WITNESS ABOVE has a little bit of all the above, although this is only the first in a proposed series and that makes it foremost an introduction, or (as you can maybe call it) a 'pilot', like with a new tvshow.<br />I'm also glad to say that A WITNESS ABOVE is the first mystery I read in ages which didn't have me figuring out the plot (and the whodunnit) when I was only halfway through. Mister Straka wins tons of bonuspoints with that!<br />I'm not going to delve into the plot (you'll probably already know about that after reading the contents of this page and the other reviews). I just have to say A WITNESS ABOVE has a great set up, a really good and thought of maincharacter in Frank Pavlicek (it's written in the 'first person' narrative, like all those classic P.I novels before it) and it's an easy read which only cost me a day to get through....fun assured!<br />I give it fours stars because the series can only get better. I noticed A KILLING SKY, the second Pavlicek mystery, has already been released. Mister Straka can count on it that I'll be buying that one also.	2002-07-22
US	48942268	R3DQ0H63WK5PM6	0671672770	444602080	Breeder	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Clegg's best....I'm sad to say!	BREEDER was the first Douglas Clegg novel I ever picked up and after reading some of his other (more recent) books I thought I'd drop in a few lines.<BR>I must say however that, after BREEDER, mister Clegg seems to have gone a little downhill. His later novels like YOU COME WHEN I CALL YOU and HALLOWE'EN MAN were interesting, but a little bit to intellectual and literary for my tastes. That's why I think his second book BREEDER is (still) his best.<br />BREEDER is about this young couple who move into their new Washington home and, with a baby on the way, start looking towards a happy future. There is none however when all kinds of 'skeletons' start popping up, and with frightening results.<BR>There's this really frightening baglady cowering through the neighbourhood, their landlady isn't all she says to be and soon the couple are involved with the resurrection of a powerful, and evil voodoo priest (but then again, aren't all voodoo priests evil?).  <BR>Without giving too much of the plot away I can say there's chills and twists aplenty here and I must warn the weak of stomach since there are some pretty disturbing scenes involving foetusses and childmurder.<br />I remember reading FANGORIA in the early nineties and at the time they were making Clegg out to be a big promise for the future. Giving his popularity he certainly has made good on that, I just think it's a pity he strayed away from the writing style that made books like BREEDER such winners.	2002-07-22
US	48942268	R3PQ3IPEXXX28T	0843929197	199052778	Cursed Be the Child	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Literary horror, but extremely bleak and depressing.	I was very impressed with Mort Castle after reading CURSED BE THE CHILD. However, I doubt I'll be reading his other (out of print) horror novel STRANGERS.<BR>Why? Because CHILD was so incredibly heavy. I don't know if I can read another book like it (although I don't know if STRANGERS shares it's topics and/ or subject matter). <br />For different reasons I will not delve into the plot too much. <BR>I must warn you though, after reading the back blurb and viewing the cover you maybe expecting a run of the mill horrornovel about a child possesed. Believe me: CURSED BE THE CHILD is not!<BR>There are gruwelling twists aplenty and in Mort Castle's world there is no room for a Dean Koontzlike happy ending. <br />I have read few horrorbooks which spent so much time developing its characters as does CURSED BE THE CHILD. And what they turn into isn't always so comforting. Like I stated above, that's what makes this book (for me anyway) almost literary in it's set up and execution. It also makes me wonder why Castle didn't become a bigger name in the horrorfield, since CURSED BE THE CHILD clearly shows his talent.<BR>Maybe it's the subject matter....<br />Which brings me to the controversial aspects of this novel: the child abuse, incest etc. In his introduction Castle writes that the book doesn't get to graphic about all that stuff.<BR>What is written about it is however really unsettling and proves what a good writer can do with merely the power of suggesting.<BR>Parts of this book had me really disturbed, but for me these severely adult themes - like pedophilia - make CURSED BE THE CHILD almost transcent the supernatural horrorgenre and let it evolve into something that stands completely on its own.<br />I know Mort Castle has (still is?) been involved with the HORROR WRITERS OF AMERICA. After reading this book I can understand why, since he clearly knows his horror, and best of all, was able to write a fresh, disturbing take on a subgenre (child possession) which, even in 1990, had already been done to death.<br />So, after all those very kind words, why only a four star rating?<BR>Simply because it was TOO MUCH for me! I couldn't handle it!<BR>But then again, shouldn't all horror be as thought provoking as this is?<BR>I'll leave the answer to you...<br />Recommended....for those who can stomach it!	2002-07-15
US	48942268	R3277WUSLZ2AL8	189192933X	319038437	The Wonderland Murders	Books	3	10	15	N	N	A debut novel, and it shows....	...<BR>Sure, THE WONDERLAND MURDERS is a good book, it isn't however as great as some people say it is. <BR>Let there be no doubt, mister Braithwaite has a lot of talent, he's real good with the characterisations and also what I call the 'california feel' (taking it from someone who doens't live in America) but it's the plot and especially the mystery that's lacking. <BR>You're talking to someone who grew up with DEATH ON THE NILE and PRESUMED INNOCENT and this is nowhere in the same league. THE WONDERLAND MURDERS is farfetched (both mother AND daughter come to the main character with similar cases on the SAME day, and the're both connected to the murders!), it's predictable and when the killer is finally revealed (the only likely suspect left) there isn't any form of twistending or blow-you-out-of-your-seat revelation you've come to except with this kind of novel. A smart reader (and all you have to do is pay attention) will have this already figured out about 50 pages before the (by the way WAY too short) finale.<br />It's all a little bit too rough around the edges, but it's enjoyable enough and you can count on it that I'll be buying the next Jesse Ascensio mystery (if there'll ever be another one) if only to check if there's been some development in mister Braithwaite's plotting skills.<BR>Meanwhile, I'll get me some Ruth Rendell mysteries from the library, her plots are far more cleaver and plenty of shocks and thrills assured there.	2002-07-08
US	48942268	R197EN0J0O2TD4	0821721216	758184355	Sleep Tight	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A real TIGHT horror story, with a distinct eighties flavor!	What can I say? SLEEP TIGHT is one of those books that you can read in under 4 hours (it clocks in at 300 pages) and that still leaves you real satisfied after putting it down.<br />SLEEP TIGHT was published in 1987 at it really has the feel of that time (to me anyway). I can just picture this as a movie, standing in between EVIL DEAD II, Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees (to which there are references) and offcourse Don Coscarelli's PHANTASM (the main baddie here is even called The Tall Man, just like Angus Scrimm!). <br />The plot is pretty standard supernaturalhorror stuff, with a creature from some other dimension that kills people and has to be stopped. I heard Matt Costello is really big on HP Lovecraft, and his influences show, with an unpronounceable evil and all kinds of tentacle/pseudopodlike things grabbing at innocent victims.<br />Like I stated earlier, it's fun, just don't except this book, and it's characters to go too deep. To use a cliche, it's almost like a B-movie put to paper(although, once in a while, that's not a bad thing).<br />There are some minor qualms in that the baddie resembles the PHANTASM movies a little bit TOO much and that the local police buy a little bit TOO easy into the fantastic explainations the professor character is given them (he's a holocaust survivor and kind of the Van Helsing to this story-- I'm afraid to say, all that's been done before also).<br />However, this kind of horror isn't about originality, but about the kind of feelings it evokes in it's readers. For me it was both nostalgic and scary, and I haven't got any problems with that.<br />I've recently bought a few of Costello's other works, and I'll be sure to be reading them soon. Stay tuned!	2002-07-08
US	48942268	R2B8DBI5X3ZTYY	0451401794	263437594	Night Man (Onyx)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An eighties horror movie come to life.	I'm a guy from Holland and in the early nineties I got my first exposure to the horrorgenre via countless horrormovies on videotape and my local comicbook store which imported FANGORIA magazine.<br />I have to mention both in this review. First because FANGORIA wasn't that flattering in it's review of this book and second 'cause THE NIGHT MAN just feels to me like a lot of the horrorvideos from that time (think the Freddy Krueger and Jason films and more obscure gems like THE HITCHER and MAD JAKE).<br />I have to disagree with FANGORIA though (sorry Dave Kuehls). I admit THE NIGHT MAN has a somewhat average setting and there is some moralising (I read somewhere Jeter used to work with troubled youths himself) but the parts with the fantom avenger and his black car are just so cool and everything just ties up real good in the end.<br />The plot is simple (An abused kid has his revenge on those who pestered him, and his life somehow gets entangled with that of an aspiring writer slash nightguard) but there's enough horror in the parts with the abandoned drive-inn and (once again) the avenger to keep a horror buff like me interested. It's also a fairly short read which I finished in a day (another pluspoint in my book).<br />I haven't read Jeters other books (The rumor is DARK SEEKER and SOUL EATER are better) but this is entertaining in it's own right.<BR>It's just too bad Jeter abandoned the horrorgenre to become a franchise writer for the likes of STAR TREK (yuck!).	2002-06-16
US	48942268	R1WLTZY32LRZZ9	0515130974	1083226	Running Blind (Jack Reacher, No. 4)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Saw it coming a mile away!	I'm a horror buff but I dig a good mystery once in a while ( I happen to think the best horrorstories are the ones which have a mystery element to them. Like some of Peter Straub's books and the excellent 'Scream' movies). <BR>Anyway I picked this book up at my local library. It was an english edition which had the alternate title THE VISITOR (one I don't think is at all inapproriate, since the killer in this story is in some way invited into the homes of his victims). I haven't read any of Child's others books, but after this one I might read another one.<BR>I say 'might' on purpose 'cause although RUNNING BLIND is a good book I figured out the plot and the killer fairly easily and (I really hate that) early on in the story. And in my opinion there lies the problem with this book. It's good and clever thought of, but there are clues left all over the place and I don't think Child did that all on purpose. I think it's because (and RUNNING BLIND isn't the only mystery novel which suffers from this) when you start to read this book you just know the plot and motive are going to be so farfetched that you start looking for the least likely suspect and just assume he's going to be it...and voila!<BR>This book also has a so called 'locked door' element in 'how the murders are committed' is as important as 'who's doing it'. I also figured that out fairly easily, once again there's more than a fair share of clues for that.<br />I'm not that all negative about the book though (Why else would I give it three stars? And as an aspiring writer I wish I could come up with a plot like this). It's because I really liked the character Jack Reacher a somewhat cliched hardman and drifter and it's great fun seeing your theories proven to be right.<br />I read somewhere Child is a former tv writer and it shows in some parts of the book: the stereotypical portrail of the FBI and the gangsters, the beautiful woman FBI sidekick etc. RUNNING BLIND isn't at all realistic. But I think no reader would come in expecting that!<br />Like I said earlier it doesn't make it a bad read though. Just not great.	2002-06-16
US	48942268	R1LUPDM9BHZWPN	0898797985	500746771	Writing Horror	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The best advice on becoming a horror writer	I'm from Holland and I want to be a writer of horror fiction.<BR>Seems like an odd choice, especially for someone living in a country which hasn't spawned a (good) horror writer in ages (if ever), but this book made me decide to go through with it.<br />It is great how WRITING HORROR is divided into all these chapters/ articles in which known (and some lesser known)horrorwriters give advice and pointers on how to master the craft. I learned so much from this book. There are things I hadn't even thought of yet (and never would) which are explained here. A few examples: setting the mood, how to write believable characters, draw your influences from real life, avoid cliches, don't EVER try to copy Stephen King...etc etc.<br />The best article for me was David Morrel's on writing dialogue. I knew him as the creator of John Rambo (of all characters). But from this book (and the real hard to find FACES OF FEAR, by Douglas Winter) I learned he's also a well accomplished writer of horror and suspense. <BR>This man has such a clear voice and his words were so helpful to me. I'll be sure to read some more of his work in the future.<br />In short WRITING HORROR makes me want to create my own stories, and I think that's the best compliment you can give the people who put this book together.<BR>I have some minor critisicm in that most of the articles are very short (only a few pages), but on the other hand I guess the writers make every word count.<BR> <BR>It's hard being an aspiring novelist and sometimes you have to drag yourself behind your wordprocessor. WRITING HORROR makes it a little less hard!	2002-05-21
US	48942268	R1WD9FMW82HY9A	0451400569	563682613	Moon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My favorite James Herbert novel	I've always made no secret of it that I prefer the realistic/ suspense kind of horror novel over the supernatural one (Jimmy, if you're reading this, sorry). I always loved James Herbert and he's becoming more and more of an idol to me. However, most of his novels have dealt with the supernatural. MOON to me is a welcome exception to this rule and that's why I think it's also his best.<br />Why Herbert has always so appealed to me is that nine out of ten times he uses the same set up: There's always this one, male character who battles seemingly impossible odds but stays this realistic often flawed human being. He wins in the end, but it's how he gets there that's important, and it's never an easy road he has to travel! <BR>The other element his books always have (untill his last ones, like CREED, OTHERS and ONCE) is these amazing setpieces which are almost like scenes out of a slashermovie. They always go like this: There's a character introduced in a few pages, we follow them and think the're going to play a big part in the novel, but then (totally unexpected) he or she gets it, often in a particulary nasty way....BAM!<BR>I love that, and I love James Hebert for doing that every time!<br />It may come as no suprise that MOON has these elements also. I'm not going to delve into the plot. The set up is simple (man against lunatic killer) and both the situation and it's island location are used to maximum, often harrowing effect.<BR>To use a cliche; read the book and find out.<br />James Herbert is no literary writer (read Ramsey Campbell if you prefer your horror that way). He is however capable of making a juicy, fastpaced horrornovel which - in case of MOON - never disappoints!<br />I see MOON is out of print in the States. However Amazon.co.uk has this, and most of Herbert's titles in stock in a cool new MacMillan paperback edition, all with similar covers and packaging. <BR>THIS IS MUST READ FOR HORROR FANS!	2002-05-21
US	48942268	RT5ZWKILQLSC4	0426204123	436891652	Legacy (Doctor Who-The New Adventures)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Cover, good story	I just finished this over the weekend and since it's the first of my 'Virgin DOCTOR WHO adventure novels' I just had to write a review, mainly because it was such a good read.<br />I'm only gonna touch on the story, I don't want to spoil anything, but I must say LEGACY is more of a sci-fi/ Sherlock Holmes hybrid than a traditional timelord adventure. On the other hand, with the inclusion of the Ice Warriors it also feels like vintage WHO, so don't worry! <BR>However, it was the mystery that sticks to me as being one of the best part of the books, although (and I find this to be the case with most mysteries) it was more interesting to learn of the villains motivations and evil masterplan than it was discovering his identity.<br />I find Gary Russell to be a very enthousiastic writer and in his foreword he explains of his lifelong ambition to write a good WHO novel. And in my opinion he succeeded in doing that! The passion just drips of the pages here, and Russell gives a good characterisation of the Doctor as this mystery man full of quirky yet human traits. He also feels right at home with Bernice Summers and (in a small part) Ace.<br />There are, I'm sad to say, a few minor flaws. For once LEGACY is so full of characters and backstory (especially of the planet Peladon and it's rulers) that it sometimes seems like a bit too much, and gets confusing. Also the open ending was a bit predictable.<BR>Than there's also the problem of the violence. I'm a big horrorfan myself and I never had any qualms with a bit of gore.<BR>But these elements (of which LEGACY has a lot) seem so out of place in a DOCTOR WHO adventure. I understand that WHO always was a horror/ sci-fi hybrid, and the small volume of other WHO novels I read (mainly in the BBC book series) also had their share of violence, but to me it just doesn't belong in this series.<BR>Anyway, it doesn't hinder in the end and I still recommend LEGACY to anyone who loves WHO.<br />Also, I mentioned the great looking cover.My brother, who doesn't like DOCTOR WHO at all, noticed it right away and said it definitely was an eyecatcher (in my opinion it really is that good). He even admitted that it might interest him in reading the book, and isn't that what a good cover should all be about?<br />All in all, I'll be reading these DOCTOR WHO novels for a long time coming!	2002-05-06
US	48942268	R11W9ST1SC6KSB	0563405767	492551249	The Roundheads (Dr. Who Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Doctor Who rules,  Mark Gatiss rules...period!	Doctor Who always appealed to me the most as a sci-fi/ horror hybrid, I never cared that much for the so-called 'history' adventures, of which there were a lot, especially in the early years.<BR>Gatiss' ROUNDHEADS is a welcome exception. Here in Europe this writer is known foremost for his British tv comedyseries, I read somewhere he is also a big Doctor Who fan. This novel, for me, proves that.<BR>There's a big passion evident in Gatiss' writing. He makes the world of Doctor Who (and history!) come to live, and he just draws you in it.<br />ROUNDHEADS is very conservative in it's set-up (and it's execution) but come and think of it, that's why I like it so much. It's about the Doctor (in his second incarnation) and his companions who wind up in England at the time of Cromwell and the roundheads. They get mixed up in a plot to help the captured king escape and also, when a history book from the future is misplaced and falls into the wrong hands, they'll have to set history back on it's proper course.<BR>I won't spoil anymore for you, but rest assured, there's plenty  of adventures en even some bloody, gruesome stuff, which I, as a horror buff just love! THIS IS GREAT STUFF! ...<BR>GO GET IT!<br />I since have bought all of Mark Gatiss other Who books. Can't wait to read those also!	2002-05-03
US	48942268	RO947BFSHAHQB	1565049489	392145083	Immaculate *OP	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A different kind of ghost story	I always thought of Mark Morris as a good, if not what secondrate British horrorwriter. I don't mean that in a negative way, but he always had the footsteps of people like Clive Barker, Ramsey Campbell and James Herbert in which to follow... and that's not an easy task! <BR>It's perhaps ironic that those writers also seem to have had a big influence on him. I remember his book 'The Secret of Anatomy'to be an entertaining Barkeresque romp and his 'Doctor Who' novels were lighthearted, not all too serious fun.<br />The Immaculate changed all that...<br />I can't help but have the feeling that the story is strongly autobiographical (the parts about the writer anyway, offcourse not the supernatural bits...I hope).<BR>The book is about a writer who returns to his hometown after his abusive father passed away. When he starts having bad dreams and hears his father's voice through the phone I just knew it was going to be THAT kind of story.<br />I was wrong.<br />I couldn't for the life off me have expected where this story'd wind up. I won't spoil it for you, but it was brilliant, and much more mature than similar efforts from someone like Herbert, who always likes to have the blood and guts flying. You wont find that in this novel.<br />The Immaculate is by far Mark Morris' best work. I am an aspiring writer myself (aren't we all?) and I totally got pulled in by the world in which the main character lives. For example, I loved it when he pulled found this old case in his attic and started flipping through the pages of all the books he so adored during his childhood. Marvelous! <br />Like I said before, this doesn't go for the gross-out, but it's  good supernatural horror, with strong psychological and social overtones.	2002-04-22
US	48942268	R7DW6Z3LV7ZHW	0671701495	898205584	Hotter Blood: More Tales of Erotic Horror	Books	5	13	14	N	N	It maybe Hotter Blood, but yours will run cold!	I believe the 'Hot Blood' series is up to it's 10th volume now (who's counting anyway). This one's number two and heralds from 1991, but don't you for a second think it's even a bit dated.<BR>This is erotic horror at it's best and in my opinion a lot of todays authors pale in comparison to what these guys diss out for you!<br />I read in the introduction that these were all original stories and that suprised me...in a positive way! That's because the're all so good. My regards for Mister Gelb (once again) and Mister Garrett for really collection the cream of the crop, so to speak. <BR>Highlights for me include Richard Laymon's 'The Tub (he's always been a favorite of mine, this one also doesn't disappoint), John Byrne's 'Nocturne' and Patrick Gates 'Hard men are hard to find' (another favorite author of mine, my apologies if I seem a bit chauvinistic by praising them).<BR>I really enjoyed that most of these stories went of in completely different directions than you expected they'd go. I grew up with the eighties version of 'the Twilight Zone'... <BR>Compared to most of the other stories Grant Morrison's 'Braille Encyclopedia' seems a bit out of place, but also in a positive way. I read somewhere that his story received multiple awards, and rightfully so. It maybe the best piece in the collection. It sure is harrowing, and really disturbing, with it's graphic descriptions of degrading sexacts and mutilation.              <br />It really strikes me as odd that, in the author descriptions, the editors hail the writers in this anthology as pretty much the next big thing in horror. I myself know of most of them and have read quite a few of their works. But I consider myself a conaisseur and collector of rare horrorbooks. Let's be honest. To most of the Stephen King/ Dean Koontz horrorbuying population these writers will seem nothing but obscure.<BR>But...<br />DON'T LET THAT WITHHOLD YOU FROM TRACKING THIS DOWN!	2002-04-15
US	48942268	R3WRKT3Q6B015	1557850151	71821151	Specters	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Should have called it 'Creepers'!	As I understand 'Specters' was this authors first, full lenght horrornovel and I must say, it doesn't disappoint. <BR>I read this book a while ago and some of it's images have kept with me. 'Specters' has a lot of different elements; the supernatural is in it, and sick Halloween pranks, a mad axekiller with a whodunnit twist and even an almost celestial finale in which the evil force takes on the form of Adolf Hitler (among others)!! It's a broad canvas Mister Gelb paints for himself, but thank God it works!<br />In short 'Specters' is about this boy with supernatural powers (aren't most of these novels about that?) who must confront different hurdles (and evildoers) to come to terms with his gift, and himself. Anyway, he stumbles across a diabolical conspiracy and gets help in the form of an old women with, you guessed it...the same powers he has. It sounds cheesy, but all is executed in a nice 'pull you in from the start' kind of manner. Although some of the elements of the plot seem to unravel in completely different directions it all comes together nicely in the end. Another pro.<br />I liked the parts with the killer and the Halloween gags (boy the stuff with the corpse was creepy) the most. This book is just what the writer (in my opinion anyway) tried to do: write a fun, not too much thoughtprovoking horrornovel. <BR>My only cons are; the cover. It has a cartoonish ring to it and I -- for the life -- can't understand why those soldiers are on it. They sure weren't a big part of the story!<BR>...P>After this book Gelb went on to edit a lot of anthologies. I own a few of them ('Shock Rock', a couple of books in his 'Hot Blood' series). I read somewhere he was also working on another novel. I wonder what ever happened to that? <BR>I sure'd love to have read some more of his 'kitchensink' works!	2002-04-15
US	48942268	RRZXDEFPVF8OO	0451400976	229923036	Manstopper (Onyx)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The ultimate killer dogs on the loose!!	Wow!! <BR>That's the perfect word to describe this book.<br />From title to end 'Manstopper' is one powerhouse read. As you may have guessed (you will after seeing the cover) this book is about a couple of killer dogs (so called Manstoppers) who escape after a lunatic hijacks the truck that carriers them. The dogs end up in a small town and start ripping apart everyone (and everything) that gets in their way. Their owner is soon on their trail, aided by a few of the (surviving) locals. In an interesting subplot we also find out what happens to the hijacker/ psycho who is one nasty dude (in the best horror/ Richard Laymon tradition). <br />I've read some of Douglas Borton's other works, but none of them get's even close to 'Manstopper'. It's his masterpiece! I highly recommend this book, if only for the amazing setpieces in which his killerdogs feature. For example; one has them chasing a guy out of a tree, another has them following a tv newswoman even as she thinks she can loose them going into the sea!<BR>Also worth mentioning is Borton's excellent characterization. For example, take the owner of the dogs. He isn't anything at all like the ruthless guy you may think a breeder of killer dogs is!<br />I recently found out that these days Borton writes thrillers/ suspense novels using a pseudonym. I think his strength lies indeed with these genres. 'Manstopper' is horror, but not of the supernatural kind (like Borton's lesser books 'Dreamhouse' and 'Deathsong'). I think you can maybe (and very carefully) describe this as a 'Jaws' on land. <BR>Once again, highly recommended. Don't let the fact that it's out of print stop you. TRACK IT DOWN...<br />....or maybe else the dogs will track YOU down!	2002-04-15
US	48942268	RLTC98PT6YO7X	0312105371	739753580	Savage: From Whitechapel to the Wild West on the Track of Jack the Ripper	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Laymon's legacy...	It's been over a year since Richard Laymon's passing and I just remembered what a great writer he was-- 'is' actually, he'll live on through his books!! I decided to pay my long overdue respects in the form of a review.<br />Let there be no doubt about it 'Savage' is Laymon at his peak!!<BR>I read somewhere that Laymon wrote this book after his editor suggested he tried something different from his usual slasher/ splatterpunk fare. It's breathtaking to read this book and come to the conclusion he's done just that, but also has incorperated almost all of the usual elements that have made him such a winner (in my opinion anyway).<br />'Savage' is about Jack the Ripper, but it's not like you expect a serialkiller-novel to be. It's a fictional retelling and it also adds so much to the Ripper legend. It's told from the first person point of view and just the mix of Victorian English with Mark Twain-like American slang is worth the price of purchase alone. I won't spoil the plot, I'll just say the book is epic in scope and it heads for one of the most satisfing finales I have ever read. The way the Ripper ends up in the Old West, it's a classic!!<br />This is for all you knuckleheads out there who still suck their Stephen King books and worshipp their worn off copies of 'Lord of the Rings'. This is so good, maybe they'll call THIS literature in about a 100 years time!	2002-03-18
US	48942268	R2DOESHID3E705	0812521080	213897679	Tread Softly	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Don't let them hear you coming...or running!	First I must say that Richard Laymon's dead shocked me. I cannot stress enough the enjoyment his books and writings have given me (If you read his shortstory 'The Hangman' in the anthology 'Skull Full Of Spurs'-- it's legendary). I almost cannot deal with the fact that he's no longer with us and there wont be anymore books of his coming out in the future.<BR>Anyway, on to 'Tread Softly'. This isn't the best book he's written, but it's a great, thrilling read nonetheless.<BR>'Tread Softly' (it was released in Europe as 'Dark Mountain'- a much worse title) has all the typical ingredients of a Richard Laymon novel: the...teenagers, the almost savagely...bad guys (in this case a witch and her demented son) and offcourse bucketloads of gore and nastiness.<BR>In short: the story is about two family's who go out on a camping trip and then have to deal with the heavies I just mentioned. I wont reveal too much except that all the things happen that you'd expect in this kind of horror/ slasher novel...and a little more.<BR>What lifts this above other, more average genrefare is Laymon's extraordinary writing talent. His prose is so crisp and simple and it appeals so much...<BR>Plus, I must add that this book is REALLY hard to find. But if you happen to come across a secondhand copy...DON'T HESITATE!	2002-03-18
US	48942268	R2SDO3JJN6XR9V	084394935X	14551897	Spirit	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Masterton's best...so far!	I read this book over the Christmas holidayperiod and somehow it seemed to fit the mood perfectly. With it's almost fairytale like images of raging blizzards, iced over landscapes and dark snowstorms. <BR>SPIRIT is set in rural America just before, during and after World War II and I must say Masterton captures the spirit (get it) of that time perfectly. It's about these two sisters who somehow get caught up with the malevolent ghost of there past away kidsister. This 'spirit' as mentioned in the title manifests itself in the form of a fairytale queen and she murders everybody who stands in the way, or threatens the girls. There are some real nasty, graphic scenes in here, but you get the feel that the people who fall victim to the spirit really have it coming: a pedophile preacher who abuses one of the girls, a nasty female rival at a writing agency and an even nastier movieproducer. They all get killed and/ or maimed in the most hideous ways (especially the scene with the frozen pool!)<br />I have read most of Graham Masterton's books and this ranks up there with his best (if it isn't his best!). The man has a way of not sparing his readers the most grizzliest details and SPIRIT is no exception, it's NOT for the squeamish! But it's (luckily) not nowhere as vile as his MASTER OF LIES (gorehounds pay attention, I dare you: you won't get past the opening chapter of that book!). SPIRIT'S got a great story to back it up though and Masterton pulls of some great characterdevelopment here, especially with the middle sister, who's ambitious and not always as nice as heroes in books are supposed to be (according to literary conventions).<br />All and all A+!!<br />P.S: I still got Masterton's MIRROR and BURNING in my bookcloset. After reading SPIRIT I'll be getting them out real soon!	2002-03-03
US	48942268	RKEOSHIJT3ZDN	1557734224	762085815	Coven	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Not really a COVEN, but....	Together with Patrick Gates, Edward Lee is -- for me -- the ultimate gore/ extreme horrorwriter. His stories ooze with nasty sexscenes and brutality, and COVEN is no exception.<br />Don't let the cover fool you. It shows a woman in a black cape with a pentagram on her chest and holding an axe, but this book isn't about witches. An evil force is trying to take over the world and it's up to a slacker student and an ambitious female deputy to stop them, and they do fall in love halfway through! Without spoiling to much; Lee pulls no punches, from people who get sliced in half by a enormously large axe, to gruesome alien experiments and a zombie that can't be killed, COVEN has it all. Also worth mentioning is Lee's quirky sense of humor and his knack to create characters, which are most of the times stereotypical, but also make you laugh out loud because of their human traits. An example is the way he sends up rich, spoiled collegestudents, with their expensive cars and their taste in foreign beer.<br />This book is very hard to find (like most of Lee's older books) and I myself paid a ridicously large amount of money for it. But it was totally worth it and if you can find it I recommend it to any fan of extreme horror!	2002-02-25
US	48942268	R3M8BKWV7DJL3I	1557735492	599835673	Incubi	Books	4	18	18	N	N	No one can resist the INCUBI	This is another hard to find title from Edward Lee. It's a shame it isn't in-print anymore. I am a big fan of this writer and INCUBI ranks up there with his best (see my review of COVEN for more).<BR>Lee isn't for the weak of heart (and stomach) though. His horror is of the most extreme kind and his sex is almost always nasty and/or perverted-- kind of like Richard Laymon, another favorite of mine.<br />INCUBI is about a pair of ex-lovers, a cop and a female artist, both of whom (in different ways) get involved with -- and become the target of -- a pair of male sexdemons who prey on the lusts of women. If you don't mind reading about people gettting sliced up in the most brutal ways and women see raped by grotesque phallusses this is your kind of book. Lee's ending isn't a happy one though and INCUBI has an epilogue which can be called downright weird.  <BR>ONLY READ THIS WHEN YOU'RE SURE YOU CAN HANDLE IT (for example with all the lights on)!<br />I heard Lee is now writing SF novels. I hope he'll return to his older form with more work like this. INCUBI is extreme horror/ gore at it's peak, written in a time when every horror novel didn't have to be targeted at a Young-Adult audience and/ or had te be part of a series like Buffy the Vampire Slayer.	2002-02-25
US	48942268	R37O1BLIHO721O	0451401018	395902670	Fear	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A new dimension to FEAR	I think Patrick Gates is one of the best horrorwriters of alltime (he once got labelled the next Stephen King, to give you an indication). This book isn't his best (For that read 'Grimm Memorials' and 'Jumpers') but it's scary, and engaging in it's own right. <BR>A magazine once said Gates' books are the literary equivelant of a Freddy Krueger movie. Although that description doesn't do him enough justice I think it's also partly true. It are his amazing setpieces and images that have a way of staying with you, more so than the overall plot, which can be called thin: <BR>'Fear' is a tour de force horror/ gore novel about an alien being which posseses people's minds and makes them commit heinous murders and atrocities. In the best horror/ b-movie tradition only a few people are left alive to defeat the monster. <BR>To give you an idea off those 'setpieces' I mentioned. Near the end Gates dishes up a roaring mass of nasties and beasties for the main antagonists to fight. An old women with a chainsaw and even the monster from that movie ALIEN are included there!<BR>I won't spoil the ending but it's original and can even be called intellectual.<BR>YOU'LL HAVE TO READ THE BOOK TO FIND OUT.<br />I have a few more words for the writer though. What ever happened to you after 'Jumpers'? I'd love to have some more of your work to read! Drop a line!	2002-02-25
