US	48954036	R2CUPDEF10PBPA	0765312999	32994075	The Overnight	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable premise for booklovers but I wanted a bit more	I almost didn't pick up this book because of the bad reviews, but when I saw the library had a copy, I decided to try it just because I couldn't resist the setting of the bookstore. I liked the chapters being told from different employees' points of view - the characters didn't seem too hard to keep track of because while there are many perspectives, the chapters aren't limited to just the one person speaking - you just get to know the characters better because it's through more than one person's view. I could appreciate much about the plot, but I wish more detail could have been given regarding the fates of the characters - I don't mind not knowing all that happens to them (some \\"cliffhangers\\" are fine), but I'd like more on what happened (as in background) and WHY it happened - there is the \\"embittered author\\" who offers just a speck of background, and there are a few other clues, but I wanted more. Overall, though, it was worth reading.	2005-09-01
US	48954036	R2UDIIQMAQDUKE	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	5	3	4	N	N	From one diagnosed with depression...	...I loved this book. I don't think people should feel bad for laughing out loud - I didn't feel that Hornby \\"made fun\\" of or made light of the topic of suicide; rather, I felt comforted by the characters he brought to life; even though this is a work of fiction, it made me feel not quite so alone in how I thought or felt. I really could empathize with the characters, too - the shame of my mistakes, the guilt of not wanting to go on when I know that my life really isn't so bad - it was really cool how the characters dealt with their problems - no quick, easy answers yet some other alternatives to throwing one's self off a building. Back to the idea of humor and laughter - laughter is good for you. It felt good to laugh and gave me a different perspective on my illness; I don't think I'll ever think of suicide in quite the same way again, and that's a good thing.	2005-07-14
US	48954036	RP8XUDXU8S0UB	0689851464	42393042	It's Time for School, Charlie Brown (Peanuts Ready-To-Read)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Do we really want to discourage kids like this?	I love Snoopy; I loved Charles Schulz's comics. But this book is disappointing in its negative message - it goes too far with the \\"Charlie Brown is a loser\\" message - Charlie Brown's friends all laugh at him when he insists it's good to keep trying (I agree with Charlie Brown - making a mistake or not winning shouldn't be a signal to just give up and never try anything ever again) and he enters the spelling bee. There are no guarantees that something attempted after a failure will end in a success, but Charlie Brown's failure in the spelling bee isn't funny - nor is the way his friends make fun of him - nor is the general message of his \\"loser\\" status: it's completely depressing and the book ends with no hope whatsoever for Charlie Brown to be anything other than a loser... I don't want kids to get the message that if they make a mistake, if they don't win, then they're doomed to failure and no friends for the rest of their lives, do you?	2003-07-23
US	48954036	R3RJZFDAXB0T84	0531303012	43670980	What's So Scary?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lots of fun and adventure!	This unique story is told from the point of view of a group of animal friends... the first three words of the story, in bold print, say, \\"What's so scary?\\" There is a picture of a huge pair of shoes, a pair of glasses (falling from a face we don't see), two legs which are standing around three opened pails of paint, and a paintbrush which is still resting on the head of an animated dog who is holding a book in his hand and who gives his explanation for what is so scary... and what is so scary changes from page to page as various animals exclaim and comment (the humor of what they say will have kids and adults both smiling) and stick together as they try to flee from a great tidal wave (and ensuing flood) of paint from the spilled paint cans. Finally, the illustrator (one of the animals asks, \\"what's wrong with him\\") is seen, brush in hand...he trips, and the brush lands in the dog's hands. What the dog paints (wings on the elephant, for example - whereas a couple of pages before, the alligator was commenting as to how heavy the elephant was, now the elephant is commenting on how heave all the other animals are that he's carrying when he's flying) makes for a delightful conclusion to this fun-filled book.	2003-02-19
US	48954036	R2WO0OEZIJC0T	084233596X	722253202	Unashamed: Rahab (The Lineage of Grace Series #2)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	About Belonging	There were moments I smiled with Rahab and felt joy, there were moments with her that my eyes were so blurred with tears that I couldn't read for the space of a few blinks. Her story was inspiring - she wanted so badly to belong to God and be one of His chosen, and her faith shone so bright in the darkness of the rest of the people of Jericho's unbelief in God ... I couldn't believe it when after all Rahab had done to also save her family's lives, that they said what they said and behaved as they did toward her. I understood Rahab's frustration with them - she couldn't understand why they did not believe in - or even want to believe in, and trust in, God. Regardless of the lack of support from her family, and regardless of how she had made mistakes in her life and felt moments of shame, she had great faith in God to save her and accept her, and it was so good for my heart to read about how he not only saved her, but welcomed her as his chosen and then blessed her with someone who loved her and who didn't focus on her past, but on her future.	2003-02-19
US	48954036	R37Q9X0K9FLFP	0842319476	579809836	Unveiled: Tamar (The Lineage of Grace Series #1) (No 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compelling	Seeing how distraught Tamar was in the beginning - when she wanted to fight the fact that she had no option of whether to marry Judah's oldest son, Er, or not - grabbed my attention - hook, line, and sinker. She didn't want to marry Er. She had heard of how cruel he was, and she feared him... yet, she was obedient. And even beyond that, she hid her fear, and she was the best wife, even to a cruel and cold man, as she could be. It was compelling reading seeing how Tamar didn't get her way but she obeyed her family, became a part of Judah's family even though no one except Judah came remotely close to welcoming her to the family. It helped to put MY struggles into perspective - I mean, I kept thinking, in amazement, &quot;and I thought that I had it rough???&quot; Tamar's loyalty to the family of Judah is impressive, but her search for, and then her loyalty to, God, despite her upbringing and despite those around her who worshiped idols, is truly inspiring.	2003-02-18
US	48954036	R2HUOHVX8Z69O5	0736909117	865179451	The Rescue (The English Garden Series #2)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Trusting God for love	I don't know about it being Wick's best (I can't decide which of her series I love the most), but The Rescue is as good as any of her other series. Anne is a sweet young woman who has lost her mother and is living with and trying to take care of a father who has been ill and who has some mental challenges; she has lost almost all of her possessions and the house she is living in is sadly in need of repairs. Anne is attempting to attend to some of those house repairs when Robert Weston, whom she has never met as he is just getting ready to move into the area, startles her and she ends up receiving her first rescue from Weston as he rescues her from a nasty fall. Unfortunately, Anne's father mistakes the closeness between her and Weston and his mind won't accept any excuses for them not to be married...immediately! I won't ruin any more of the surprises; I will say, however, that this book does a good job of illustrating how people's gossip (and how they sometimes believe the worst without evidence) can really hurt an innocent person - and that Christians are not exempt from the pain they can cause by gossiping. Also - God will provide, including someone to love.	2003-02-10
US	48954036	RVYUCKW4X31AW	0764227319	553322581	Daughter of China (Daughter of China Series, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	How God provides	The story is so easy to get into: in the beginning, we go along with Mei Lin and her father to a house-church meeting. The way it's written had me holding my breath as they crawled or snuck along in the dark, listening for sounds of the Communist authorities who, if they could catch the believers in worship or with a Bible would accuse them of a crime against China and would proceed to beat them and possibly imprison them if the beatings didn't kill them first. Plenty of examples of the brutality against Christians are found in this story, and are realistically told so that the characters' suffering will break your heart. Mei Lin doesn't have an easy road ahead of her, but the suffering she goes through benefits others and it's interesting to see how God provides at the worst of times for her and other believers in the story. The network of believers who risk their lives to free Christians from prisons and protect (and befriend - the supporting characters in this story are strong and exactly that: supportive) them is as important as the pastors and openly practicing Christians; it's neat to see how God uses them all together to accomplish a goal of bringing others to Him and welcoming them into His family.	2003-02-10
US	48954036	RKPCINM3ZZBDO	0765303191	637009185	Before the Cradle Falls	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Grabbed my attention and held it	There are some books that you have to allow a few pages or chapters to \\"get into\\" it; this book grabbed me from the first page. Something is always happening, but it's not confusing or overwhelming - the characters are easy to get to know and easy to distinguish. I really appreciated the personal tone of the story - I enjoyed \\"getting to know\\" the characters and their feelings, thoughts and motivations; it just adds a new dimension to the story to be able to see what's going on from the different viewpoints of the characters involved (not just to see one person's \\"side\\"). There's Cradle Robber, an elusive monster (who doesn't see himself as a monster, but as a kind minister who saves children from inevitable pain had they continued living) who has been traveling from city to city, suffocating young children in their beds and leaving a small baby toy in the dead child's hand. There's Detective Kyle Sommers, who has recently returned to work after taking a leave of absence to recover from his young daughter's death. Kyle feels an especially urgent interest in solving the Cradle Robber case because every time a child dies, his daughter's death hurts that much more. There's Sherrie Nolan, a dynamic woman in a wheelchair who believes in time travel and who puts herself on the line to help Kyle, young children, and people she's never even met. And there is the mysterious and elusive man in the hat and overcoat, who witnesses say has blue skin... why is his skin blue, and why is he showing up at numerous catastrophes, all involving children, in the nick of time to lend a hand in saving lives, but then disappearing before anyone can speak with him? Who is he, why does he leave newspaper-like columns for the detective to find that contain incorrect information about a crime or tragedy that has just occurred where he has intervened, and what is he trying to do? When the mystery man crosses Cradle Robber's path, a chain of events is set in motion that threatens to not only change the past and the future, but to destroy the present world as Kyle knows it.nge the past and the future, but to destroy the present world as Kyle knows it.	2003-02-04
US	48954036	RYQO3LGM4D8QB	037541309X	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress : A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An ironic, personal re-education	The narrator (17 at the time of the story) and his best friend, Luo, (18) have been sent to the country to be re-educated...what they must endure and the creative ways they come up with to get through those challenges, makes for a captivating read. The two teens are spunky, have a sense of humor, and retain their love for free thought, music, books and authors throughout their political &quot;re-education,&quot; becoming storytellers themselves to their village and others who visit their village, as well as to the Little Seamstress. While there are indeed funny moments in the book, as a book-lover, what happens to the Little Seamstress, and ultimately, to the two boys and their treasures, tugged at my heart quite a bit...I was quite saddened by the irony of the re-education they put themselves through: the boys, especially Luo, had a certain concept in their minds about books, and about people who are not well-read not being somehow as esteemed as themselves; by trying to change the Little Seamstress into something else, they were re-educated about the idea that &quot;unread&quot; people are somehow less valuable (they're not less valuable), and they lost something they loved along the way to that lesson.	2002-12-02
US	48954036	R1FHQAOQFISHM6	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	Full of Christmas miracles!	We all have things we enjoy at Christmas - watching a particular Christmas movie, decorating a tree or other traditions. Reading The Christmas Train will be one addition to my Christmas traditions that will truly put me &quot;in the mood&quot; for Christmas. The story is wonderfully told, with likable, realistic characters that become dear and familiar by the end of the book, with action, humor, mystery, suspense, and tears that kept me completely enthralled from the beginning of the book to its stunning end. Some books you can predict what will happen next. Not this one! Though the reader may have hopes for what will happen next, there are no guarantees, and there are many wonderful surprises in store! Tom Langdon, an investigative reporter who has covered wars, won 2 Pulitzer prizes and has reverted to writing fluff because he is so depressed about not being able to change the world for the better, has decided to take a train trip across the U.S. to fulfill one of his dead father's requests, and to meet his girlfriend Lelia in LA. Tom doesn't really love Lelia; he just has found a comfortable companionship with her - they don't even live together, they just see each other every now and then. Tom's true love, Eleanor (Ellie), has been lost to him some years ago, and Tom isn't really sure what happened between the two of them - he just knows that not marrying Ellie was the worst mistake of his life. Imagine his surprise, then, to discover that Eleanor is on the same train as he is, working as a film writer for Max Powers, a very successful movie director. When Max and Tom bump into one another, Max has a great idea - he suggests that Tom and Eleanor work on writing the &quot;train movie&quot; together. Eleanor wants no part of it, but Max Powers always gets his way! Then the train becomes trapped by an avalanche, and there is such a severe winter storm going on that the more than 300 passengers worry what will happen when the train's fuel and food runs out. Who will rescue the trapped train and all the people traveling with it? An excellent, excellent holiday (or anytime) read, full of love, hope, good cheer, and miracles.rescue the trapped train and all the people traveling with it? An excellent, excellent holiday (or anytime) read, full of love, hope, good cheer, and miracles.	2002-11-27
US	48954036	R1EI33U8GZTKGI	067101420X	730430702	Forever... : A Novel of Good and Evil, Love and Hope (Forever Trilogy)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Superficial fairy-tale ending	Not that I don't love fairy tales and the &quot;happily ever after,&quot; but this ending just didn't taste sweet - it tasted of strong artificial sweeteners. What happened? I liked the characters, I thought the story line was interesting and there were a lot of tunnels through the book (the witches have a coven where there are many tunnels...well, the book had a lot of different ideas running off in different directions which I thought was interesting, but many of them dead-ended and didn't go anywhere), but instead of allowing a tunnel or two to lead into a gold mine, we are supposed to be satisfied with being yanked out of the story a step before the peak of action begins? What's up with that? I was holding my breath when the characters were just an exhale away from confronting the witch and her followers and finding the captive children... then I was shocked to turn the page and see &quot;One year later&quot; instead of being allowed the privilege of &quot;seeing for yourself&quot; what happens with the &quot;final battle.&quot; What a letdown; we have to hear what happens &quot;after the fact.&quot; And the resolution just seemed too simple - too easy. This is only the 2nd Jude Deveraux book I've read and I'm not sure if I'll pick up another - The Summerhouse was excellent, but Forever sure won't stick with me forever.	2002-11-25
US	48954036	RXWASQW9QLZHI	0800758307	156653168	Postmarked Heaven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you could offer love and hope from heaven...	...this would be a neat way to do it. If, when I died, I could be chosen, like the four who were chosen in this book, to write letters that people on Earth would read, I'd love to do it. Each letter, though fairly short (most of them were 5-10 pages, some shorter), expressed some pearls of wisdom in a personal way - most of the people who are writing these letters from heaven sacrifice, at least temporarily, the \\"no pain\\" blessing heaven offers, and remember their past struggles, pains, lessons learned, (and triumphs, too - it's not all pain and loss) and relay those life experiences within the letters with the goal of benefitting other people. The four people lived during different time eras and had different experiences, all of which I found very interesting - my heart thumped in my chest when Theodora was rescued from rape and certain death (condemned because she refused to deny her faith) by a fellow Christian, who planned to die in her place. I was fascinated also by Shankala's experiences - how she refused to give up her faith in Christ and would not obey rituals and then was cursed by a witch doctor. Dr. Everett Parker talks about a special nurse who administered to a wounded enemy soldier. The experiences are vivid and evoke emotion in the reader. The \\"lessons\\" that the reader learns based on the experiences of these four characters through the letters they write don't feel like \\"lessons.\\" Because each letter is short and illustrates some different idea (though they are related to one another in their purpose to offer words of comfort, advice and hope, and often there are \\"categories\\" of ideas which the letters each speak to in their own unique way), it's easy to read this book any time - you can stop if you're called to do something else and not feel as if you've missed something or lost your place. Though there are heart-wrenching moments and tears in abundance in Postmarked Heaven, there is also joy and laughter within its pages, and your heart will feel revived, refreshed, and open once you've read this book.revived, refreshed, and open once you've read this book.	2002-10-22
US	48954036	R1CQ8Y8L4QXRK7	1565123654	320848162	The Divine Economy of Salvation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Compelling	I found Sister Angela's story fascinating. The story begins with a brief description of Sister Angela's duties within the convent. When she receives the silver candle holder, she begins going back in time and telling us the story of her life when she was 14 - her mother was ill, she and her sister, Christine, are separated and sent to Catholic schools away from home. The story of how Angela copes (with her mother's illness and feelings of homesickness, worry, and loneliness) - her feelings about the friends she makes in &quot;the Sisterhood&quot; and the things these friends do together, is engrossing to read - compelling without being overly dramatic or exaggerated. The tragedies of Angela's life are withheld from the reader at first, making it feel like a sort of mystery needs to be solved. Gradually, what she seems to be hiding from, unwilling (or unable) to face - all unravels in a bit of a hurry, and while I understood most of what was going on, I was left a little uncertain and still curious about how some of these problems were resolved (esp. with the less traumatic issues such as Angela's relationship with her sister and father, but also with characters surrounding the mystery of the candle holder) - then again, maybe that's how the author intended to leave the reader - with a realistic sense of some things just not being able to be resolved, but with Angela's sense of hope and focus on life.	2002-10-22
US	48954036	R3BX754X1ZQ7LC	0670031062	60879247	Must Love Dogs: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Must Love Laughter	\\"Barely 40\\"-year-old, preschool teacher (and afterschool activity coordinator) Sarah Hurlihy is a delightful young woman with a sense of humor as well as a sense of adventure, as she takes the bold half-step (her sister, Carol, does some downright shoving to get Sarah half-willing to go along) to put a singles ad in the paper (which is pretty amazing, considering the results of her first bold half-step of answering a personal ad!)...<br />While Sarah is trying to deal with her divorce from Kevin, and trying to juggle the drama of her five siblings' busy lives as well as the Bradys' (I loved the tidbits from Brady Bunch reruns!), her mother's recent death and Don Quixote-type father, she accepts Mother Teresa's (St. Bernard puppy) leash and the challenges of dog-sitting, as well. Add to the mix several prospective Mr. Rights and you're in for a satisfying dish of vanilla humor with a dab of lemon soul-searching. Definitely a \\"pick-me-up,\\" though the ending left me hungry for more.	2002-09-04
US	48954036	R2PTYIF691QXRZ	B0000667EW	107696729	Grand Avenue	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Make sure you're ready for the reality of an unhappy ending	Grand Avenue offers us an inside look at the lives of four friends as their friendship endures through the years. One of the down sides of Fielding's talent to make her characters so realistic and someone the reader can relate to and care about is that the feelings of sadness, depression, horror, and disgust that the  reader feels when something tragic happens to these characters, feels very real and in some cases, very deep. After the death of one of my family members while a different family member has been suffering in intensive care in a hospital, I discovered that this book was not a wise choice for me to read (my timing was wrong - it's not that the book is bad, but it is depressing) because I wanted something lighter, gentler, more encouraging. I wanted to be cheered up by witnessing the joys of friendship that \\"The Grand Dames\\" shared through the years. How frustrating it is to \\"get to know\\" one of the characters and really like him or her, only to have something really awful happen to them and then on top of it, have another character that you (and the other characters) had trusted carelessly stomp on your heart as well as the others' - esp. at a time when your heart needs a careful touch. This is NOT a gentle book - it's a hard-hitting \\"nobody ever said life was easy, OR fair\\" kind of book; the majority of it is not happy and there is no fairy-tale ending (I shouldn't be spoiling anything considering you are told in the beginning of the book about the death of 2 of the characters). Make sure you're in a good mood, or consider having at least one friend or loved one close by to cheer you up if you need it, before you pick up this book.	2002-08-26
US	48954036	R1X69L8V90S97M	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Believe what you will	Eleven-year-old Reuben is the narrator throughout this story of miracles, hope, family love and betrayal. Rube believes himself a witness of his father's special gifts and blessings; he tells in an open, honest voice what he has seen his father do, what he's heard his father has done (beginning when Reuben was born and when he could not draw a breath), and what he has seen others' reactions to his father to be. While telling his story, and explaining what he believes are miracles, Reuben does not attempt to insist that what he sees is what the reader will see; he tells the reader, \\"Here's what I saw; take from it/believe what you will.\\" There is nothing pushy or preachy about either Rube's nor Jeremiah's faith; rather, both show through their actions what they believe, which makes them and their faith all the more believable. As Rube shares in the story of two violent boys and his brother, Davy's, reaction to them, part of his brother's court trial and the people the family meets during that trying time, Davy's escape and then the family's search for him, Rube writes with such open feelings, laying out not only his thoughts or interpretations about his asthma, his father's forgiveness, his sister's spunky, endearing and talented character, his brother's elusiveness and the enemy fed who is on his trail, but also Rube lays out his flaws, his errors, and his redeeming qualities as well, which makes for a deeper, more empathetic read. Although this story focuses more on day-to-day living, personal growth and redemption, there is plenty of action, humor, depth to keep the reader involved and interested. I also liked how the friends of the Land family feel as though they are the reader's friends, and the Land family themselves become a family I care about and cheer for.	2002-08-22
US	48954036	R330YK8SZX4GRG	0689839057	420661240	Among the Betrayed (Shadow Children)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Elodie's dilemma	Nina, who thinks of herself as a \\"ninny\\" (she hates her new name) for falling in love with Jason, who it is proven has betrayed her in hopes of saving his own skin, faces a new dilemma when she realizes her nightmare is reality and she wakes up on a hard, damp prison floor with her hands handcuffed: should she take the \\"deal\\" which is offered to her by a Population Police interrogator who she has named \\"The Hating One,\\" and betray three young exnays (illegal third children), or should she die? Why not betray these children, she sometimes wonders - after all, no one made any moves to come to HER defense, and these kids don't seem to want anything to do with her. Nina struggles with losing her identity as Elodie, as well - as Elodie, she was someone precious and protected. As Nina, she's just an abandoned ninny. Nina decides to at least pretend to go along with the hating one's \\"deal,\\" though she really doesn't want to. When a chance to escape presents itself, Nina debates whether to take the three children with her. She fears they will only slow her down, but if she doesn't take them, they will surely die because the hating one has only given her 24 hours to betray them. The children's escape leads to a startling discovery about who exactly is betraying (as well as who is protecting) whom, and why.	2002-08-17
US	48954036	R1T8DJHG1V90D8	0345445848	287871634	Big Cherry Holler: A Novel (Big Stone Gap)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Disappointing	I probably should not have started this book with such high expectations, but since I so much enjoyed Big Stone Gap, I assumed I would love Big Cherry Holler, also. Although the book begins promisingly, with Ave Maria's young daughter competing in a radio quiz bowl, and the voices of the characters I loved from Big Stone gap were back and sounding familiar and enticing me back into their world, I was extremely disappointed with the conclusion that Ave Maria was not only &quot;wrong&quot; in her attraction (but there was little credit given her for saying &quot;no&quot;) to another man, but she was ALSO &quot;to blame&quot; for Jack's affair... that's just plain wrong - Jack should have been responsible for his own choices and actions, not Ave Maria - it seems the author is saying that just because Ave is not a &quot;perfect wife&quot; (like Jack is &quot;perfect&quot;? Bull!), it was ok for Jack to cheat. Ave's best friend, Theodore, sure doesn't act like a &quot;friend&quot; when Ave comes to him, broken-hearted and needful of support only to be told coldly that she brought it all on herself... now I'm not one who thinks a true friend should lie, but to tell a hysterical, hurting FRIEND how wrong she is instead of first offering care, comfort and a validation of that friend's feelings seems cold and cruel to me. It's like telling a friend who is starving that it's her fault that she's hungry and she needs to wake up and smell the coffee, then slamming the door on that friend instead of feeding her.<br />And we're not done bashing Ave Maria yet... the way she mourns for her dead son is &quot;wrong,&quot; and since Jack was ready long before Ave was to talk about it, he becomes superior to her and a victim of Ave's &quot;distance,&quot; even though he sure doesn't seem all too patient or eager to accept Ave's attempts to communicate love and a willingness to try to communicate to her husband. How cold is it, anyway, to agree to take a summer trip with your wife, tell her you're not going at the last minute, and then not show any kind of feelings when she tells you how much she's looked forward to spending time together on the trip?<br />If you want to take a chance with this book, I recommend checking it out from the library rather than buying it.l her you're not going at the last minute, and then not show any kind of feelings when she tells you how much she's looked forward to spending time together on the trip?<br />If you want to take a chance with this book, I recommend checking it out from the library rather than buying it.	2002-08-17
US	48954036	RBKQ7HL4MQSZC	0849912970	734020909	Traveling Light: Releasing the Burdens You Were Never Intended to Bear	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	The 23rd Psalm applied to your personal burdens	Max Lucado uses his sense of humor and ability to illustrate personal experience and anecdotes to make clear to the reader how the 23rd Psalm applies to each and every person, regardless of which burden that person struggles with carrying. Max breaks down the 23rd Psalm and explains each little part of it and how it applies to the reader's life (example - Max explains how &quot;you are with me&quot; from the 23rd Psalm means that when we are feeling burdened with {or lugging around an empty bag of} loneliness, that God has promised to be with us and never leave us. Lucado also presents possible reasons for why God might allow us to feel lonely, and how we can remedy that lonely feeling). Max also explains how Jesus is our shepherd and we are his sheep, and explores possible reasons why David chose this analogy for his psalm and not some other comparison. I liked how the discussions on different topics (about the 23rd Psalm and about burdens as well as about other ideas) were not superficial and Max addressed different feelings I had but didn't really stop to think about until it was mentioned in the book. Spending time with Traveling Light helped me recognize the extra baggage of burdens that I have been lugging around, and ways that I can set those burdens down and trust God to carry them for me. What Max had to say makes sense to me and brought a new meaning to the 23rd Psalm and also gave me a lot to think about (but I don't mean worry about - which is a burden we don't have to carry - I took away a refreshed spirit and hope in my heart from reading the book).	2002-08-15
US	48954036	RAR31XIQFLF1C	0684834227	320107780	Beauty	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not the fairy tale you might expect	I began this book believing I knew what was going to happen, and thinking it would be a nice, romantic mirror of the fairy tale I've loved since I was a child. Some elements mirror the classic tale - Lee Crompton, a reclusive author, has a disease that makes his face seemed deformed. Alix Miller is a talented young woman who strives to capture beauty in her paintings. The two meet &quot;kind of&quot; by accident - Lee tries to retain Alix's father to paint his portrait (I know - not something you'd think he'd be willing to do, what with his belief that he is utterly repulsive, but it is a &quot;family tradition&quot; that the Millers paint the Cromptons' portraits, and Lee plans to hide his portrait away for other generations to discover after he is gone), but Alex convinces his daughter, Alix, to go in his place (he thinks his daughter will do a better portrait than he could). Would you expect Alix and Lee to fall in love? (Yes?) Ok, but that's about where the mirrored fairy-tale elements end. What you wouldn't expect: the details and agony of Alix's father's debilitating illness, and how Lee helps; Lee's reaction to Alix's feelings for him; the details of both Alix's and Lee's work; the illustrations of the team that Alix and Lee make as friends, before either fully realizes how they feel about one another; the way the secondary characters, including Bad-dog, make the story fit together better, like the seemingly seamless mahogany banister that Alix inspects at Lee's house. Finally, the &quot;beauty and the beast&quot; fairy tale ended happily with a mutual profession of love, without letting anyone see what happened next. When you think this story has ended, it goes on. And the ending is nothing like what I expected...	2002-08-14
US	48954036	R23MFIK9RTI7MQ	0312848854	300640784	The Soul Thief	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A story of courage, faith, love, strategy	Corban is banished from his family when his father disowns him while cursing him as a coward. The story of Corban's quest to find out what he's made of - and how he draws on reserves of strategy, strength, and courage that he never knew he had along the way - begins the day after his father disowns him, when almost all of his family is viciously slaughtered by the Vikings. Only his sister, Mav, has survived, and the Vikings have taken her as a slave. Corban begins a long journey to find Mav and rescue her from the Lady of Hedeby, a witch who wants to use both siblings for her gain: from Mav, she wants to sap the young girl's gift of second sight; from Corban, she wants to manipulate King Eric Bloodaxe, who rules in Jorvik with a greedy and bloody iron fist. In Jorvik, Corban finds friends and true love, and possibly a way to save himself and his sister from the Lady of Hedeby... only that way is unknown to him and unseen by his sister until the final fateful moment of truth. The Soul Thief brims with action, self-discovery and worth, and heart - a worthwhile tale of hope and love despite the many hardships that good people face.	2002-08-13
US	48954036	R2SGTH41AASXIM	0743410262	327700345	Educating Caroline (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Book's a great stress-reliever	I took Educating Caroline with me to the hospital as I waited with loved ones for a relative to go through surgery. Caroline, who is pretty, loyal, spunky, brave, outspoken, curious and creative, seeks out the renowned Braden Granville (who is a &quot;self-made&quot; man who many members of the &quot;gentry&quot; view as below them - someone who will never &quot;fit in,&quot; but the only quality man who had a real heart for life besides maybe his father, Sylvester) for lessons on how to make love - NOT a hands-on assignment, mind you... which is only the introduction to the many laughs I couldn't avoid as the story unfolded. Caroline and Braden's story helped take my mind off of my worries and it was nice to escape to their world for awhile - a world that I didn't find overly simple, or predictible, or ordinary... but at the same time, I didn't have to work to think about what was going on, which was good since my mind was tired from thinking about other things. The secondary characters are fleshed out and make the stars, Caroline and Braden, sparkle more. There are some twists and turns in the plot which keep you on your toes throughout the 400+ page book - the time it took to complete those pages flew by, making it seem like there were less pages than a short story.	2002-08-09
US	48954036	R869OJT0DU3VD	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Spend time w/Ave Maria & friends, feel at home in BSG	Ave Maria, 35 and single (she considers herself a spinster but I wouldn't label her as such), trying to recover from her mother's surprise secret that was revealed only after her recent death from cancer, is not a simple or 1-dimensional character, but I found it so easy to get to know her and care about what happened to her (and her friends). It's more than Ave Maria laying her feelings - weeds along with the flowers - out on the line for the reader to behold in all their splendor. It just doesn't feel like there's anything shallow about this book - it has a special quality I can't define that made me feel like spending time with Ave Maria and her friends and family in Big Stone Gap was like being somewhere that felt like home. Readers get to experience so much - from surprise, adventure, tears, laughter, suspense and that feeling you get when someone you \\"know\\" does something nice for someone else you \\"know\\" (even if it's only knowing them via pages in a book). I finished the book satisfied and wanting more simultaneously - I found Big Stone Gap an enjoyable read that tended to my emotional needs to connect with the characters.	2002-08-01
US	48954036	R2168C2U44VFU0	0312261721	505835793	The Secret Ingredient	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Lucy and Ethel, or the 2 Stooges strike again!	Elizabeth Baskin has been married to Roger for 6 years - and though she and Roger still love each other, Elizabeth feels that something vital has slipped away from their marriage. Roger doesn't listen to Elizabeth like he used to; he stays late at the office (real estate lawyer) on a regular basis and when he finally makes his way home, he's too exhausted to do much more than fall asleep in his recliner. Elizabeth works hard, too - as an &quot;undercover&quot; inspector of hotels wanting to earn the coveted highest Five Key rating (some of the funniest moments of the story include Elizabeth's on-the-job escapades) but she doesn't think it too much to ask that Roger remember when she's leaving and when she will return from a job, or to be happy to see her after she's been gone for a few days. So when Elizabeth's sister recommends that she go to Dr. Farkus (who is a &quot;life enhancement&quot; specialist) to obtain some sort of remedy for Roger's behavior (being distanced from her in their marriage), Elizabeth decides to go for it in order to save her marriage. She meets a young woman (Clover) with a southern drawl at the doctor's office who is on a similar mission to &quot;enhance&quot; her husband Bud, and the two become fast friends. They share news on what happens to each of their husbands when they sneak the &quot;stud stimulant&quot; into their morning beverages. When things go haywire, Elizabeth and Clover turn into a kind of Lucy/Ethel or &quot;Two Stooges&quot; type of team in order to find a solution to the mess they've created. Some of their fiascos are funny; some seem just plain silly, contrived, somewhat boring. The ending of the book has a few surprise secret ingredients that add up to an okay recipe for a mostly enjoyable beach read.	2002-07-29
US	48954036	R2L8TK5NP8E87J	0375412824	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Introduces hope and then quashes it flat	It seems the main question isn't just \\"how much do we owe people we love\\" (if it was, Kilroy should have been owed more than Mike), but \\"how much do we owe anyone, including people who treat us like [crud]?\\" (Mike's mother, for example - maybe she thinks it's justified, but she nonetheless treats Carrie about as good as an escaped convict.) At the start of the book, Carrie doesn't love Mike like she used to, but hasn't been able to tell him when he has an accident. Confused and unable to meet others' expectations, Carrie flees without a word to anyone from WI and goes to NY, which is where hope is introduced - Carrie makes new friends (Simon just feels like the right person for Carrie to trust; Lane seems right, too), falls in love, finds a way to pursue a dream - and then she leaves it all behind to return to WI - all of a sudden, \\"her life\\" is supposed to be in WI, even though she has been so happy in NY. It just didn't make sense to me that all of a sudden, everything in NY was reduced to not meaning as much as everything in WI had ceased to mean to her... and Carrie's longing for Kilroy right up to the end just made me angry with her and dissatisfied with her shallow ways of walking away from people only to decide she \\"owes\\" Jamie and Mike more than she owes herself.	2002-07-17
US	48954036	R1U14Q52IJLNGW	0439176840	907027988	Aenir (The Seventh Tower #3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not always the answer you expect!	If your father were missing, and the rest of your family was in trouble and counting on your help, and if you could have the help of a precious invention called a Codex, which is a wise (it's cool to see how it reaches out to help even when limited to only speaking when asked a direct question), information-gathering, shape-shifting thing that could answer any question you asked it, would you be anxious to find and keep safe such a thing? Tal is, and he assumes Milla won't mind doing whatever is necessary to find and rescue the Codex. He doesn't count on making her so furious with him, however, or being separated from her, maybe for good this time! He also doesn't count on having to depend on such a slow-minded Storm Shepherd for help, or waking to discover some kind of creature has thrown up in his hair and turned it green! Meanwhile, Milla and her Storm Shepherd are trapped in the Dawn House - will they agree to help Tal find and rescue the Codex (provided that they can find him), or will they be burned alive? And when Tal gets the rare chance to ask the Codex questions, will the answers be what he expects?	2002-07-08
US	48954036	R32F54I9JIR09X	0446679402	393330384	Driven (Gavin Pierce Series #1)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Drives you to keep reading	This book didn't seem 400 pages long - I'd say that meant it was well-paced (though at times I found myself rushing ahead to more of the action scenes, anxious to find out how Det. Gavin Pierce, his buddy Chris, and fiesty, bold yet not completely fearless -and thus a more human, believable character - Amy will stop the out-of-control madman of a serial killer, who calls himself Krogan and believes himself invincible). There is plenty of action, characters who have their place in the story and aren't just \\"extras\\" (meaning they aren't all thrown in haphazardly  nor are they difficult to keep straight - they flow well into (and sometimes out of) the story), and a wide range of ideas to think about. I would have enjoyed knowing a bit more about Buck - but didn't find myself holding a grudge against him because he was in an understandably difficult spot, but found some courage to offer a helping hand through his faith in God. I found myself empathizing with Buck, Gavin, Amy, as they had to deal with coming up against a demon such as Krogan... even more terrifying than Krogan himself was the idea of the demon's immortality - HOW will Gavin, Amy, and Buck address THAT problem? Reading this book also raised the question of, \\"But I thought the devil tried to make himself quite attractive, even though he is pure evil...\\" there is NOTHING even remotely attractive or seductive or... tempting, about Krogan - wouldn't he be even more dangerous yet if he could pretend to be something other than an always-cold in tone and action, always-disgusting, always-brutal, always-furious and eager to kill in the most violent, gory ways villain?	2002-07-06
US	48954036	R2YGJW8IX5WV1H	0786808551	857095333	Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Front and Centaur	This excellent sequel had my rapt attention throughout - the writing is clever (even some of the names of the chapters are well-worded and funny), the story moved along well, the characters had depth and substance and were easy to get to know and love (or hate). Why did I title my review \\"Front and Centaur\\"? Foaly, the brilliant gadget and electronic whiz, who is the centaur on center stage, plays an interesting role here. Read the book and you'll understand. Reading the first Artemis Fowl will help, because Artemis's attitude in \\"The Arctic Incident\\" cannot be fully appreciated if the reader doesn't know where Artemis has been (in the first novel) or where he has come from. This story focuses not only on Artemis's attempt to rescue his father (aided by Holly Short and Commander Root), but also on Short and Root's mission (aided by Artemis and Butler, Artemis's bodyguard) of getting to the bottom of a strange goblin uprising.<br />Artemis and Butler, as well as Capt. Short and Commdr Root, all showcase a wide range of interactions, feelings, thoughts, plans... they make a fantastic team and work so well together! This doesn't mean that everything comes easily to them or that one of them doesn't get smacked at some point in the game or that they all sidestep danger without losing a step... oh no, I bet you'll be sitting on the edge of your chair (or couch) and wondering how the team will make it through the next disaster...	2002-07-01
US	48954036	RZRZFUJNBAOBU	0821412760	101355591	Blood of the Prodigal (Ohio Amish Mystery Series #1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Will the prodigal son return home?	Although I enjoyed the premise of the story (Amish Bishop Eli Miller's son, Jonah, disappeared 10 years from when the story is being told and now Jonah's son, Jeremiah, has been taken... the bishop has the Amish community's support to approach Pastor Cal Troyer, who highly recommends Professor Branden - then the story of the search for Jonah and Jeremiah unfolds), I was disappointed to not hear Jonah's voice at all in the story. I got to know and like the professor and his wife, the sheriff and his deputy, and somewhat Bishop Miller himself (I thought the author did a good job of portraying how private and humble these people are - you don't get as familiar with or &quot;close&quot; to any of the Amish characters as you did the English) - but everything I learned about the prodigal son was from others - I wanted to hear part of the story from Jonah's point of view. This may have helped the conclusion flow more smoothly without losing any of its surprises. Also, Jeremiah's voice begins the story, but is cut off abruptly - which makes sense considering the circumstances... however, I would have enjoyed hearing his thoughts, his perspective, his feelings more throughout the story - but maybe the author chose not to let either Jonah's voice or Jeremiah's voice (beyond the story's introduction) be heard because it would make the Amish seem less private, as if they blended in more with the English, and the story seemed to want to illustrate how Amish people, though trying to trust and get along with the English, don't want to be seen as &quot;the same&quot; as the English - they want to be the same as other Amish in their community, but their sameness is very different from the English.	2002-06-30
US	48954036	R2Q5CP03SKQOX7	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Marcus's Acrobatic Display	Marcus is different. He knows he's different. He never minded being different until he moved to a new school where \\"different\\" is unacceptable and every day proves to be a challenge to his survival. Fiona, Marcus's mother, is different, also. She hasn't a clue what Marcus is being put through, and Marcus isn't sure how to tell her. It seems Fiona is winning all the arguments, too, until Marcus comes up with a nuclear weapon in his argument arsenal - 36-year-old Will. Marcus meets Will through an unlikely string of events (you've got to read the details yourself) and Marcus isn't even sure if he likes Will or not...in the beginning, anyway.<br />Will Freeman is carefree, dislikes kids and commitments, scoffs at the notion of falling in love, and schemes for sex. He's detached himself from anything that could possible present a problem - he believes he's slammed the door on life and as long as he refuses to answer the door, he's safe (I wonder why he answers the door when Marcus comes to call???)... Will doesn't know that there is even a point to life. Which doesn't help when he decides to try and help Fiona believe she has a reason to live.<br />Marcus initially attaches himself to Will in order to build his acrobatic display - you know, like the pyramids that the cheerleaders make. Marcus wants some support, he needs more people in his life. He's afraid his mother will kill herself and then he would be alone. What's the result of Marcus's reaching out to Will? It's like Marcus planted a seed which yields a garden - read the book and watch everything blossom and grow!	2002-06-26
US	48954036	R1LFDM0RGXL3LX	0399231145	348160966	Hush	Books	4	0	1	N	N	What's the right thing?	That's the question that everyone in the Green family asks: Officer Jonathan Green, who has seen a black teenager with a bright future murdered by white police friends he's worked with for 15 years, seems to not be able to get past that question. Did he do the right thing by testifying against his friends and yanking his family away from the home they've loved and the lives they've made? As he searches for the answers to these questions, he slips farther and farther away from his family. Shirley Green, his wife, copes by grabbing onto a religion that threatens to send her husband and daughters running in the opposite direction. Cameron, the oldest daughter, DOES find a way to run in a direction that is away from the way her family has become - sad, detached, achy for who they have been and unsure of who they are now. And Toswiah, the youngest daughter, finds herself \\"running for her life\\" as her track coach says. How does the family manage to pick up the pieces of their lives that were shattered by a senseless, violent act? Read the book and find out.	2002-06-26
US	48954036	R221L0J7FBOG5P	0439176832	495535554	Castle (The Seventh Tower #2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What is Slimy Sushin's problem?	Just had to ask that question - that creep Sushin, who kept Tal from getting his Sunstone in The Fall (1st in the series), has somehow been promoted by the time Tal and Milla get back to the castle, and he's scheming...<br />In addition to the great mental pictures the author skillfully paints in this book (for a small example, I kind of had the same reaction as Tal did to the Mother Crone's eyes...) I really liked how 13-year-old Tal and 14-year-old Milla learned how to work together despite their differences. What's really cool is how neither Tal nor Milla change who they are for the other person (though their characters DO grow) and still manage to form a team. Now we don't really know that Tal and Milla like each other, necessarily, and they still argue and tease each other, but as the two face more challenges - sometimes even apart (they get separated and Tal faces the Pit while Milla gets tossed into the Hall of Nightmares), they find ways to get back together and to help one another. I can't wait to see what happens next!	2002-06-25
US	48954036	R2MRBL47PCQB03	0849943434	894982398	A Perfect Love (Heavenly Daze Series #4)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Chilly temperatures on island and in relationships	It's January on the Island of Heavenly Daze, and though the islanders get a brief, heaven-sent reprieve from constant avalanches of snow and ice, there are some chilly snowdrifts forming in some of the relationships. You don't have to have read the other 3 books in the series, but you might understand the secondary characters more if you do - most of the secondary characters here were in the spotlight in a previous Heavenly Daze story - The danger of getting to know some of the characters in previous stories is you hope to get updates on them in later stories - there ARE updates on previous characters here, but they seem to be sketchier than they have been in past stories... if you want to know more about Bobby and Brittany, who are Salt's grandkids, or Salt (the lighthouse-keeper) and Birdie (the retired librarian) - don't expect much because though they are mentioned, none of them even speak more than a passing comment of a sentence or two - if that. Of course if the authors gave detailed updates on all the secondary characters, the book would probably be double the length it is now!<br />In this fourth story, we get to know Mike and Dana Klackenbush (she's a teacher who runs the Kid Kare Center; he's helped fix up their home and the school) and Dana's eccentric brother, Buddy. The story of Buddy's quest for a place to belong is a very good one, but the snowdrifts that form between Mike and Dana seem to get swiped at with a kitchen spoon instead of a top-of-the-line snowblower - yet the snow and ice miraculously disappear after a brief &quot;heart-to-heart&quot; talk (how can a heart-to-heart talk after weeks of silence take only a few minutes to wrap up?). The family relationships between Barbara and Russell Higgs (a young couple who have been married for 3 years and are ready to start a family of their own; they are currently living with Barbara's parents, Floyd and Cleta, who run the bed and breakfast) and Barbara's parents are in the spotlight, too. This look at a mother who finds it threatening when her daughter cuts her hair and visits the doctor without telling her (and to add insult to injury, she tells Russell things first!) is very heart-rending and realistic (though at times Cleta acts overly-much like a simpering, whiny child while Barbara reacts a bit more adult-like - hurt and confused, YES, but not unbelievably - Cleta's behavior seems overdone) and is resolved in a time frame that seems more realistic than Mike and Dana's - Cleta doesn't figure things out overnight nor does the pain magically go away. We see a little bit of the growing process.<br />Overall, this is a very good story with a healthy dose of humor -well worth the time spent with the islanders even through the brisk, cold winds of January.at a mother who finds it threatening when her daughter cuts her hair and visits the doctor without telling her (and to add insult to injury, she tells Russell things first!) is very heart-rending and realistic (though at times Cleta acts overly-much like a simpering, whiny child while Barbara reacts a bit more adult-like - hurt and confused, YES, but not unbelievably - Cleta's behavior seems overdone) and is resolved in a time frame that seems more realistic than Mike and Dana's - Cleta doesn't figure things out overnight nor does the pain magically go away. We see a little bit of the growing process.<br />Overall, this is a very good story with a healthy dose of humor -well worth the time spent with the islanders even through the brisk, cold winds of January.	2002-06-24
US	48954036	R1R3PM2AUF82UD	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Is kissing still gross if it's with someone you love?	It's winter time, Mia is only a few weeks from traveling to Genovia with her father and Grandmere, and until the trip she's busy getting ready for finals and the winter festival and dance with Kenny. Only, Kenny, the boyfriend she has on her \\"to do\\" list to break up with, hasn't yet asked her to the dance. Mia doesn't want to hurt Kenny's feelings, and she comes up with a list of excuses why she CAN'T break up with him... so, will she ever? After all, Michael (her best friend Lilly's older brother) seems to have found a very intelligent girlfriend, so how will he ever notice Mia's adoration? And even if he might notice, how can Mia get up enough courage to tell him how she feels? It's her friend, Tina, who helps Mia come up with a plan. And Tina is the one Mia asks about the fine art of kissing and how to make sure it's NOT gross! Concerning other issues, HOW is Mia ever going to pass Algebra, forgive her Grandmere for a sneaky slight (read the book to find out what it is) that causes countless criticisms from Mia's classmates, or put that snotty Lana in her place? Read the book and find out!	2002-06-20
US	48954036	R1FFVW23SU6ING	0064407993	114288372	The Black Book: Diary of a Teenage Stud, Vol. II: Stop, Don't Stop	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Will Jonah get to walk his doggie?	I didn't like Thorne's attitude toward sex and girls (he made relationships seem like nothing - a great big soap opera or a game of some sort that he would \\"win\\" when the girl agreed to sleep with him) and wondered if he'd get Jonah to change the way he looked at girls. I was worried that book would turn into nothing more than a meaningless string of conquests that left hearts squashed in the dust. But this didn't happen. Instead of copycatting Thorne, I liked how Jonah's views stood in stark contrast to his friend Thorne's. I didn't dislike Thorne quite so much when he and Jonah found a way to continue their friendship. Exposing Thorne's nonchalant girl-hopping and then following it up with Thorne's secret (wouldn't you like to know? Read the book!) and then some of Thorne's feelings (which you'd never guess about) made the story deeper and more real. I think I have it figured out who Northgirl999 is... I wonder if I'm right? I'm worried about Jonah doing the same thing to Posie as his buddy Thorne did. Not that I don't like Sophie, but considering Jonah's fury at how Thorne treated Posie, you'd think he'd be more careful of what he's doing... Also, what is up with Posie? She jumps from guy to guy as easily and quickly as some of the guys in the story, only she has never been portrayed as a cheater. What is she really feeling? Does she really love Jonah, or if another guy came along and got Jonah into trouble with her, would she latch on to the new guy? Hhhhmmmmm...	2002-06-20
US	48954036	R2LPPQWSM41EHX	0064407985	812781941	The Black Book: Diary of a Teenage Stud, Vol. I: Girls, Girls, Girls	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Cleverly written, and FUN to read!	I had to see what the hype was about - we recently ordered all of Jonah Black's \\"black books\\" for our young adult section at the library and I was curious if I would recommend these books to the local teens who come to our library, or not. The answer is a resounding yes! Jonah writes in a very honest, appealing way that made him a deeper, more caring person than any average stud. :) Though there is a lot of mystery surrounding what happened to Jonah at Masthead (a school in Penn. where he was expelled), I didn't feel frustrated by it, because there's plenty of other things going on in Jonah's life as he tries to re-adjust to being a junior (again!) back in Pompano, FLA with friends he hasn't seen for two years, a mother who is becoming famous for her sex advice to teens but who knows nothing about her own children, and a younger, genius sister for whom he obviously has a soft spot. Jonah's daydreams, feelings, thoughts, frustrations and hopes are all cleverly and freshly written - a very satisfying read despite hanging from my toenails at the end!	2002-06-18
US	48954036	R3UXSVHQZQ63V2	0439176824	131745674	The Fall (Seventh Tower #1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Game of Beastmaker	Tal's father is missing, his mother is very sick, his little brother, though wanting to help, finds more trouble than solutions, and his baby sister doesn't understand anything that is going on. It's up to Tal to take care of his family, which means aquiring a Sunstone. Tal doesn't understand why Shadowmaster Sushin, who seems to hate Tal with a vengeance, finds such satisfaction in making every single one of Tal's attempts to obtain a Sunstone unsuccessful.<br />I was completely enthralled with Tal's world: The hierarchy of \\"better than\\" and \\"less than\\" social codes that the people have to live under at times made me cringe - it seemed so unfair... the crystal woods, where Tal is tricked into competing musically, is amazing... the game of Beastmaker, between the Empress's guard and Tal will give you front-row seats to a battle you'll not soon forget.<br />Then suddenly Tal is no longer in his familiar world - while trying to steal a Sunstone from the top of the Red Tower, he falls... he soon finds himself at the mercy of one who would rather see him dead than to be in the same room as he is. Will he ever make it back home?	2002-06-14
US	48954036	RQ5V0NBE0MUSJ	0525459685	343863123	Dancer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Find out who you are; have a dream	What happens if you aren't good enough to make one particular dream - the only one you know you have - come true? Is your life over? Flip the coin over - what happens if someone notices your talent and steps in to help you make your dream a reality? What happens next, or does your life end with the completion of your dream?<br />Stephanie's dream is to be a ballerina. Read \\"Dancer\\" to find out how she learns who she is. Read to find out how Stephanie learns to be a friend even when she's not sure she even likes someone. Read to find out how her dream grows into finding out about other goals she might like to work toward in her life, goals which could blossom into a bouquet of hopes and wishes. Read to see how her parents fit into Stephanie's identity, dream, and her steps toward maturity. Read about how her first love is \\"nothing like any romance novel she's read.\\" \\"Dancer\\" is great for dancers, but it's also a great story for anyone who has a dream.	2002-06-14
US	48954036	RV8FO0V1ZSPKW	0684801051	607441444	Time and Again	Books	3	6	9	N	N	If you had a chance to change history, would you?	It was easy to become mesmerized with Simon (Si) Morley and the government &quot;secret project,&quot; which after passing a series of well-explained, sometimes funny as well as imaginative tests, he discovers is time travel. Si wants to make his own assignment and travel back in time to New York: January 23, 1882, so that he can help solve a mystery presented by his girlfriend, Kate. Surprisingly, his request is granted (by the people who are in charge of the project) and he begins working on the project. He has been taught to be an observer only, to never interfere because of the danger of changing the course of history. But will he follow the rules or make up some of his own?<br />The characters come alive to the reader, and the surprises awaiting Si in NY 1882 are exactly that - surprising. Maybe there are points where the reader can predict what will happen next, but there are many, many points where the reader will have no clue as to what is about to happen (or maybe I'd just make a VERY bad detective!). The very detailed account of what Si sees, says, does, and feels, makes the reader feel right there with Si. Some of the specific and intricate detailing caused me to become distracted and lose focus, but it's not a flaw of the book - just something that took away from my personal reading experience. The ending is satisfying while raising further questions at the same time.	2002-06-12
US	48954036	R1JZX1S6STCBX9	0689831870	793024369	Bear Snores On	Books	5	29	35	N	N	More than what the words say	While the winter storm rages, bear snores on. Guest after guest arrives in bear's lair, and bear STILL snores on. The story is funny (and has a moment of sadness) without losing meaning. Another delight of the book is the text - not just what the words are saying, but the way the letters are CAPITALIZED and sometimes bold-print, or smaller than the normal type. This really highlights the emphasis on the emotions or activities of the animals, including the bear (whose snoring seems to get louder as the activities around him become more animated). The story seems \\"just right\\" - kind of like Goldilocks finding the right bed to sleep in - and the full-page illustrations are great attention-keepers. A book kids will want to read again and again.	2002-06-11
US	48954036	R2FFK4EYQZJYYG	0671014196	624491085	The Summerhouse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Change your life!	When Madison (model-gorgeous, with brains to match her beauty), Leslie (ex-dancer, timid wife and mother), and Ellie (writer fighting depression) agree to meet again after almost 2 decades, none of the women is sure what to expect. The three friends have only met once before, but that first meeting has stayed with them the past 19 years. Deveraux does a good job of making the women's friendship believable, even though they haven't spent much time together... their unique bond is just one of life's rare gifts: Sometimes you just happen to meet someone you just &quot;click&quot; with (whereas with some people, you spend years trying to form a bond to but sometimes it's just never as strong as you'd like). The best parts of the book involve the idea of being able to change your life if you are unhappy. Cleverly, Deveraux not only employs the time-travel idea as a way to change things, but also she illustrates through one of the women (I don't want to give away too many details and spoil it for anyone so I'm trying to be vague) that a person can choose to change his or her life (without any fantastical elements) if only he or she can take the first brave step toward following his or her heart. To summarize, this is an excellent book that makes one think on what he or she might like to change in his or her life; it's also a novel that will make you laugh (and cry) out loud. Worth reading!	2002-06-07
US	48954036	RADF8SA6X73V5	0316799408	84013436	Daisy Says "If You're Happy and You Know It"	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Encourages participation from kids	This board book is of course fun to read to babies, but it would also be great for anyone reading to one toddler or preschooler, or a class of youngsters: Daisy the duck encourages the listener (if he or she is happy, that is) to make various sounds (like \\"quack like a duck\\") as we visit all kinds of different animals throughout the book. An added feature which kids and parents/teachers will like is the variety of \\"tabs\\" at the side of the book - on the tabs are pictures of an animal so the child can easily flip to the page that has that particular animal on it. The ending encourages happy kids to do something that will calm kids down and prepare them for either listening to another story, or a nap.	2002-06-05
US	48954036	R31X3S7ATTXV0H	0531303268	810192221	Crackers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stereotypes disproven!	I loved this book, for many reasons - besides being entertaining and an enjoyable read (with great illustrations that convey the expressions of the characters so well!), I liked the idea of stereotypes being disproven - we think that all cats hate mice. It's refreshing to see that isn't ALWAYS true. Might this be true of stereotyped people, too? Also - Crackers wants a job - he tries, fails, but tries again... and again... and finally, despite the impracticality and improbability of it, he gets a job that he LOVES. He doesn't give up, and he doesn't change himself to fit in where he's not happy. I think that's a great lesson to kids that they can do anything they want to do; they just need to keep trying, and keep trying again until they find their unique niche in the world where they can do their best and be their best.	2002-06-05
US	48954036	RL6PA8CV77ZT7	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Unique ideas and an enjoyable read	Pitting a 12-year-old against a population of fairies (including a lovable, witty, keenly intelligent centaur, and some dwarfs, goblins, trolls, and the like) with the unlikely twist of the 12-year-old being the \\"bad guy\\" seemed to me to be a very unique idea. I was wary at first about reading the book, not because of the Harry Potter hype, but because I didn't know how I would like a book with a 12-year-old villain, who was also the star, in it. What the author successfully managed to do for me is make the villain (Artemis) have just enough \\"good guy\\" feelings and show enough of his struggles with the \\"bad guy feelings\\" to make me hope for him to do something good. It was maddening, actually, the way the author made you at some turns angry and disgusted at Artemis, and then a split second later have you feel compassion for him. There were many times that I wanted to step through the pages and either shake (or smack) Artemis, or hug him. I have to admit I felt some keen disappointment at some of Artemis's decisions - and Butler's, too (Butler is Artemis's bodyguard and friend, and after something very kind and brave has been done for him, he decides to continue to follow procedure, instead of his heart - even though the reader sees his struggle, it drove me crazy to see how he fights caring for someone and chooses to just do his job like a robot without feelings instead.) It's easy for the reader to feel friendly to the fairies and the heroes and heroine in the story - they are very personable, humorous, genuine. Overall, this was an enjoyable read, with plenty of action, humor, and original characters.	2002-06-03
US	48954036	R2LU9XQF6OKZ6W	0152018883	40655514	The Dragon and the Unicorn	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Interesting story, beautiful illustrations	At our library, I gather books for teachers to pick up and check out for use with their lesson plan subjects. I always pull Lynne Cherry's Kapok Tree for teachers who are teaching about rainforests. When I saw \\"The Dragon and the Unicorn,\\" I knew I had to order it for the teachers and kids. I wasn't disappointed and don't think our library's patrons will be disappointed, either! The illustrations are not only rich and colorful, they're creative in their design and range. The plot moved at a good pace - not sluggish, nor too much detail, nor too much preachy \\"do this,\\" \\"don't do that.\\" Kids will like the gentle, but fiercely protective dragon and the wise, magical unicorn who he protects. Kids will also enjoy taking the journey with Arianna into the world in which the dragon, unicorn, and many other animals live, and where they are being threatened by Arianna's father's destruction of the forests. The resolution of the problem of the king's allowing the forest's destruction is satisfying without being too pat or easy.	2002-06-03
US	48954036	RGEIRKF503QLI	0439095433	503702634	The Tale Of Tricky Fox	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Foxes, beware the tricky teachers!!!	Completely delightful story of a cute, clever, cocky fox who plays tricks on unsuspecting women just to win a bet with his cousin. One of the unsuspecting women, however, manages to return Tricky Fox's cleverness with a little trick of her own... Read and find out all the entertaining details! Kids and adults both will find the story fun and satisfying, and the illustrations well-detailed and expressive.	2002-06-03
US	48954036	R1VVXSPAW70YVU	158717040X	237393905	The Other Dog (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A classic voice, like Charlotte of Charlotte's Web!	This story is told from the point of view of Touche, the dog, and what a marvelous dog Touche is! His attentive and amusing observations of \\"the other dog\\" range from \\"the other dog's\\" missing tail, lack of ventures outside for potty-time, sleeping arrangements, growth spurts, and \\"the other dog's\\" reaction to him, Touche (which is very satisfying to Touche). Touche's warm, intelligent, fun-loving and witty voice and the expressive illustrations that showed him at the peak of his interaction with \\"the other dog\\" made me a long-lasting and faithful friend.	2002-06-03
US	48954036	R1DVETUA03I8J6	0689825374	709980417	Goldilocks Returns	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good idea, but grown-up Goldi is less satisfying	The idea of telling \\"the rest of the story\\" of what happened to Goldilocks and the three bears is a good one, and I picked up the book with high expectations. I'm not saying the book is bad, but I felt sorry for the three bears, I didn't particularly like Goldi after what she did in the three bears' home, and I wished the bears had had a chance to speak up to Goldi to help resolve the issues that began when Goldilocks was a mischievous little girl... Goldilocks as a child was endearing; her antics in the three bears' house was not purposefully selfish or self-centered. Goldi as an adult is rather a disappointment - her attempts to \\"make it up\\" to the bears would have been more endearing, if not more amusing, if she had tried to think of what the bears would like, not what she wanted. I liked the story's ending, but felt disappointed in how Goldi and the three bears separated without so much as a word fit in edgewise from the bears. I'm sure kids who enjoyed the original Goldilocks will enjoy this, but I think it would be a good idea to discuss with the kids the idea that making up your mistakes to someone else doesn't always mean doing what you want, but it means trying to communicate with the other person and give something that the person would love - not be miserable with.	2002-06-03
US	48954036	R3NMSQIU4VBRJF	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Finding out what the little key unlocks...	Although it took me a little while to get involved in this book, once I understood what was going on, I was hooked. Siddalee Walker is 40, successful professionally, and in love with Connor, who is a wonderful man. But Sidda doesn't feel like she knows how to love, and so she has decided to postpone her wedding. Sidda's mother, Viviane, is very angry with Sidda for what she sees as the ultimate betrayal (read the book to find out what it is). So when Sidda writes to tell her mother the news of the postponement of the wedding, Vivi is torn between staying mad at her oldest daughter, and helping her out. Vivi's 3 best friends (Necie, Caro, and Teensy, along with Vivi, are amazing women who are known as the \\"Ya-Yas\\"!) talk things over with her, and Vivi decides to help Sidda by sending the scrapbook of the divine secrets of the Ya-Yas. Sidda has taken a solo trip (solo except for her dog) to try and sort things out, and though she is grateful for her mother's sending of the scrapbook, she is frustrated by the mounting questions that the pictures and momentoes in the scrapbook provoke - questions that she doesn't have the answers to. What is really \\"Ya Ya\\" (charming) about this book is how Sidda's questions are answered by Vivi's recollections in later chapters - recollections that only the reader is privvy to - whereas Sidda is still floundering around trying to figure things out. Then the Ya-Yas, minus Vivi, show up at Sidda's private retreat to help her sort through her memories of her mother, the feelings and questions, and though they don't have all the answers, they have stories to tell Sidda to help her fit the puzzle pieces in place. So, does Sidda and her mother ever reunite? What happens with Sidda and Connor and the wedding? And what am I talking about, \\"finding out what the little key unlocks\\"? (Ok - a small clue - there is a tiny little key tucked into the scrapbook that Sidda finds; she is at a loss for what the key unlocks, but sharing a memory with Connor helps her to remember...)READ THE BOOK and find out!!! It's such a satisfying read! And yes, there are some very funny moments in this book - but you'll also need your kleenex close by. Enjoy!r helps her to remember...)READ THE BOOK and find out!!! It's such a satisfying read! And yes, there are some very funny moments in this book - but you'll also need your kleenex close by. Enjoy!	2002-05-31
US	48954036	R1WV06PR8D13JD	0399233881	125589306	A is for Salad	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not your typical alphabet book!	I work at a public library in the kids' dept., so when I saw another alphabet book I almost passed it by, but the picture on the front of the book of an alligator eating a salad really piqued my curiosity. \\"A is for Salad??? What???\\" I said, and had to open the book to see what was going on. I didn't just look at a page or two, but had to read through the whole thing - it was just so cute and had me smiling as I figured out what each letter REALLY stands for. Great to get kids thinking while having fun, each picture depicts an animal beginning with the featured letter engaged in some activity. For example, an alligator is eating a salad. There are a few animals, such as the iguana and narwhal, which have helpful clues as to the animals' identities hidden in the pictures. Kids may need help to identify the jellyfish and vulture, though.	2002-05-28
US	48954036	RWW8UI5XT3G5N	0609807900	814027021	Sloppy Firsts (Jessica Darling, Book 1)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Managing to keep hope in her life	Hope, who is Jessica's best friend, the only one who really understands her, has moved away. No one seems to be able to understand why Jessica is making such a big deal out of Hope's move. Among the many challenges Jessica faces is one fairly consistent, annoying one: She can't sleep at night. So, Jessica writes in a journal which sometimes helps her to get some rest from her highly active brain. The journal is filled with the ups and downs of Jessica's life: How she deals with so-called friends, boyfriend-wanna-be's, her constant thoughts that run faster than she does at track competitions, and her misery of missing her best friend. Despite the altered friendship that Jessica has with Hope (they still keep in touch via e-mail and phone calls), Jessica manages to find a new hope for herself as she follows her heart, shows her real feelings, tries new things, makes mistakes and lives to tell about it, and learns that there are other people out there that she can call &quot;friend.&quot; A very engrossing read that I found difficult to step away from and was sorry to finish.	2002-05-27
US	48954036	R1MCSNBXHY9PNB	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	4	1	2	N	N	About not one but two of daddy's little girls	When Andrea Cavanaugh was 15 years old, her little sister Ellie was 7. The sisters, though 8 years apart, spend time together and share secrets. When Andrea is brutally murdered, the daddy that Ellie adores makes Ellie regret keeping her sister's secret by saying, \\"if only you'd told us...\\" and the seed is planted in Ellie's mind that it was her fault that her older sister had to die. Ellie sees her father grieve but cannot reach out to him to share her own grief; she spends time remembering how special Andrea had been to her daddy and her grief is further complicated by guilt and longing to be able to touch her daddy.<br />At least she is able to help put the man who killed her sister, Robson Westerfield, behind bars. But that doesn't keep the family together, and Ellie and her father become estranged.<br />When her sister's killer is paroled and for reasons you'll discover in the book, wants a retrial to prove his innocence, Ellie becomes involved in following a complex trail of Rob's past crimes. There are a few untied strings at the end when people who help Ellie just vanish from the story, and sometimes all the people who step forward to help her so brazenly seems a bit unrealistic - plus, even many of the people who believe in Rob's innocence are still quite kind and helpful to Ellie. Regardless, there are plenty of challenges for Ellie as she determines to use all of her skill as well as her memories and love for her sister to prevent Rob from getting his way and getting away scot-free to torture someone else. But the biggest lesson she learns along the way is that though she is tough, determined, intelligent, and willing to do all she can to bring Rob to justice  - sometimes you just have to accept some help, and sometimes nothing - not even loss through murder - can take away Daddy's Little Girl.	2002-05-23
US	48954036	R2WQ9GD7MN7L6X	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	5	1	2	N	N	"I would die for you. But I won't live for you."	I found this novel powerful, with many of the statements within the book such as what I've included in my title, having a unique ability to move, touch, rearrange, and push my feelings around like furniture inside me. So much of what Charlie, the 15-year-old who tells the story, writes makes sense and is something the reader can relate to or at least have feelings about.<br />Although I loved this book, some people who don't feel comfortable reading about controversial issues such as teen-age sexuality (heterosexual and homosexual), drug experimentation, and some other issues, may not enjoy this book. These issues aren't just mentioned, they're realistically and more profoundly explored through the eyes of a teen-ager. The way I looked at it, the issues here that Charlie lived through doesn't mean that Charlie or any of the people involved defined themselves by the issues - but rather, Charlie and the people involved in the story triumphed despite the challenges they faced. It's a story of growth, of learning and realizing identities - and the reader cannot get a grasp of HOW the characters grew and changed and learned to LIVE, without telling about such controversial issues.<br />Charlie is a believable, lovable, very intelligent, though struggling teen-ager who tries so hard to do what he thinks other people want or need that he is constantly denying himself - standing aside and watching other people live instead of stepping into the situation and giving something to it. A wonderful bunch of people step into Charlie's life and help him learn how to feel infinite, how to live and love, and how to remember painful things from his past that will help him to handle some of the loss in his life.	2002-05-21
US	48954036	R1Y5XK1O26MLEC	0505524384	226151078	Aphrodite's Kiss (Protector)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mere mortal wants to rescue his damsel in distress-can he?	Wow, what a fun read! There's some fun silliness going on here - some of the hot and heavy thoughts pinging around in Taylor's and Zoe's heads might lead to some eyeball-rolling, though later in the story their feelings seem a bit more natural despite the little bit of time they've known one another - if you have a tough time believing in love at first sight that only grows deeper VERY quickly, you might feel like you've fallen into a mythological fairy tale. The story line isn't fluff and the characters have some substance - there are a wide range of feelings, easy-to-relate-to emotional challenges, and childhood memories emanating from mortals, halflings (Zoe's father is a Protector; her mother is a mortal), and Protectors (mythological-type superheroes). A few of the characters seem one-dimensional and they're easy to dislike or place in the \\"bad guy\\" catagory. But some of the bad guys have feelings, too, and you can't help but hope against hope that they manage to get their act together and join the \\"good\\" side. Some of the good guys frustrated me in a big way - Zephron's insistence that Zoe not receive any help from brother Hale or father Donis, for example. It didn't seem fair to leave her clueless to what was going on! But Zoe, with Taylor's help, does manage to unravel the events and her place in it all. But is she strong enough to do one-on-one battle with her cousin, who has always beaten her at skill challenges when they were children? Does Taylor have a place in the challenge to save the world? Can the love that she and Taylor share help when all else fails? And does Taylor, a mere mortal, really have anything to offer Zoe, who could kick his butt on her bad days? Reading to find out will be well worth your time!	2002-05-19
US	48954036	R9GSBDE6O7FFF	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	How much would you withstand to protect a child?	Although this book had some amusing, endearing moments of times spent between a nanny and a child, the heart-wrenching undercurrent of serious loneliness and loss will tug you under throughout the book.<br />How long would you stay in a situation where you found your sanity being called into question if there was someone you loved involved? What about if that someone was a child? If your love for a child or someone else and desire to help that someone presides over any sense of making the situation more fair and tolerable for yourself, and if you have ever found yourself withstanding shabby, unfair treatment from someone you dislike and mistrust (and others can't see why you put up with it - and call you a doormat), for the not-so-simple reason of wanting to protect and stay with a child that you love, then you will be especially able to identify with Nanny as she takes the punches from the Xes in order to stay with Grayer, who has stolen her heart and will steal yours as well.	2002-05-18
US	48954036	RKAY7CI728DOO	0060097825	19808942	Zoya's Story: An Afghan Woman's Struggle for Freedom	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Can you imagine...	Can you imagine... living in a house with dried mud walls and being comfortable sharing your room with termites that you could hear munching hungrily? How about going to a public bath? Having only a lightbulb to keep yourself warm? Not going to school until age 14? Daily living with the danger of being whipped, raped, or killed? Witnessing a man's hands being cut off?<br />Zoya's story begins when Zoya is 4 years old, and the Russians are occupying her country. What Zoya experiences, the reader experiences - the time she meets a woman Russian soldier, how she reacts, and what her Grandmother tells her later about Russians (\\"not all Russians are bad\\"); the times she spends with her father's books and her father, going over the only homework she has - what he has given her; times spent flying a kite; times spent listening to her grandmother's wonderful stories of times past in other countries as well as her own; times spent asking her mother why she's never home with Zoya and as she grows older, Zoya's happiness at being included in her mother's work.<br />Zoya's story is laid out nicely; there are chapters that are separated by time frames (the first being the Russian occupation; the last being the attack on the U.S. and the events that followed). It's easy to understand, and interesting. I was fascinated by the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA), what their goals were, the courageous women (and men) who risked their lives to help others, and how RAWA put money into educating girls like Zoya as well as women of all ages who were refugees who did not know how to read or write. RAWA also put money into hospitals.<br />Hearing about the loss and deep despair of the people of Afghanistan was gut-wrenching, but helped me to learn what life is like there and to be inspired by Zoya's willingness to help others.	2002-05-11
US	48954036	R2VO8D4S0V4QJV	0152162577	352797677	Deep Wizardry: The Second Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Deep adventure	This is the second book in the Young Wizards series, and many of the ideas presented here are \\"deep,\\" but wonderfully so. In the first book, So You Want to be a Wizard, Nita and Kit have bought time and requested help from the higher powers, which leaves them indebted to the greater powers. This book illustrates that sometimes, there is a price for using up a resource. Repaying a debt is not always easy, nor is it a light matter to take from someone who may not really expect repayment, but hopes for and counts on your repayment (and if you choose not to repay, there are prices yet again to pay that cannot be avoided). Although it may feel good in a way to Nita to know that people believe in her and count on her to follow through, first with repaying her debt and secondly with making the ultimate sacrifice, it is also a heavy burden that sometimes she wonders if she can carry.<br />Duane plunges the reader into the water's depths along with Nita and Kit as they change form and become ocean animals. It's interesting and intriguing to \\"spend time\\" in such a setting, and to hear voices of other ocean animals - and feel (and see) their joys and sorrows. I fell in love with Ed, who had a witty, gruff, likable yet believable voice, and who takes a bite out of the typical idea that killer sharks are \\"mean and bad.\\" Will Ed also take a bite out of Nita when the song is sung and the time is right? Pick up the book and find out!	2002-05-09
US	48954036	R24QGDQ9QBGL8N	0451204875	867587212	Stella in Heaven	Books	1	6	7	N	N	A different persective	I think it takes a person with a more open sense of humor - or just a different sense of humor than my own, to enjoy this book. I just didn't find Buchwald's characters very funny; the more I read, the more dissatisfied I felt. I think it's a matter of Buchwald's style just not being my type, that's all. For example, I just didn't think Stella's descriptions of Heaven were funny. Portraying God as an absentee boss who gives orders from a distance and has no qualms about shipping someone from heaven to hell and Moses as a slave and everyone else in heaven as gossiping busybodies just wasn't funny to me. I guess the descriptions seemed cold and empty, even when describing what Stella liked about Heaven - maybe there was supposed to be humor in the pitifully meager joys of Heaven, but I just didn't get it. Stella's gripes about people bringing her food when she was sick, and her obsessive need to know every detail about her funeral wasn't funny or even interesting (Roger finally mentions that people tell funny stories about Stella, but doesn't give any examples), either - everything seemed to revolve around being a critic of someone who could possibly care. It wasn't even funny when Roger blew the money he'd received from Stella's life insurance policy, or how he had to sneak around to see his best friend when Stella was alive and now when she's dead, too. I thought it was sad. But again - it's just a matter of liking the author's style, which I didn't. If you like Buchwald's style, I'm sure you'll enjoy the book.	2002-05-09
US	48954036	R3HRDF3LF8M1JM	1578860075	345834631	The World's Best Thin Books, Revised: What to Read When Your Book Report is Due Tomorrow	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Great resource	This is a good resource especially for librarians and teachers, but it wouldn't hurt parents to have a copy, either. This is an easy and quick way to check on shorter, but quality, books that kids who like to procrastinate can read for school. Bodart is very thorough in including as much information about the book as possible in as brief a way as possible - the only problem I see with that is kids or teens using the information listed in \\"World's Best Thin Books\\" as the source for their reports instead of actually reading the book. Also, as one who works in the youth services dept. of a public library, I've seen the problem of kids (and parents) not wanting to read a book that's not on an accelerated reading list. Some of the books in Bodart's compilation ARE on the accelerated reading lists, but there's still the problem of because the books are shorter, less points are awarded (not always, but sometimes) to kids who read those books and for that reason alone, shorter books are set aside. Regardless of outside glitches, Bodart has a great idea and presents a thorough, easy to use reference book for anyone who is in the position to encourage a child to read a shorter (or in this case, thinner) book.	2002-05-09
US	48954036	R3HMZ84L2RIR7A	1590710010	215179731	Henry's List of Wrongs	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Harnessing "the Assassin's" power for good deeds	Amazing book! Just the premise of the book - a man with his housekeeper/psych student (a woman he's attracted to in a way curiously different from any other woman he's known) on a mission to right the wrongs of the past ten years - is intriguing and Shepherd doesn't disappoint: He expertly packages the idea up into a brilliantly wrapped gift that you first savor unwrapping slowly, but then can't help but tear the paper off in a frenzy to see what's inside.<br />At 17, Henry has just let all the \\"bad\\" in his life pile up. It might spoil someone's fun to write what the \\"bad\\" was or to give away too many details so I'll try to refrain. When Henry felt himself die inside, \\"the Assassin\\" is born. The Assassin doesn't literally murder people in a physical way, but he does carelessly do anything in his keenly intelligent imagination possible to wreak havoc on peoples' person lives, stomping dreams in the process.<br />Ten years later, Henry is told something about his past that makes all the devious workings of the Assassin blaringly real and very ugly to him, and he breaks down yet again. Sophie, a housekeeper and psych student who happens to be near him when he realizes what an awful person he's become, helps him to write a list of wrongs and promises to accompany him as he seeks forgiveness for the Assassin's wrongs.<br />This book IS very funny, and sometimes unexpectedly so - it'll make you laugh out loud. It's also sad and mysterious and full of hope, adventure, and about becoming the kind of person one can trust and be proud of. Henry realizes the Assassin doesn't have to be completely assassinated - some of his talents come in use in a positive way when he decides he'll do anything to help Sophie, who has helped him through his List of Wrongs.	2002-05-08
US	48954036	R1ZMNTSSJX0LPI	0425183378	338690631	Cape Light (Cape Light Series, Book 1)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	&quot;It'll get worse before it gets better!&quot;	This is a book that is VERY hard to put down! I also did NOT see Cape Light as a Bible-thumping town; the pastor is a kind, warm, non-judgmental man who has problems just like members of his congregation do. Reverend Ben's wife is sweet and caring; her battle with depression gives her more depth and makes her easier to relate to, as she is not really a main character in the book. Emily, the mayor of Cape Light, seems strong, capable, dedicated, patient, compassionate... almost like a too-perfect painting that has only one set meaning to it. Until we get to know her heart and thoughts and see that Emily has constructed a seemingly-perfect facade to mask her loneliness and regrets for the past. She doesn't realize that part of the past has come looking for her.<br />Emily's sister, Jessica, doesn't expect to make Cape Light her home: it's just a temporary situation for her while she's helping her sister take care of their mother, almost 99% rotten Lillian. Again - Kinkade uses his paint strokes magically to reveal something sparkly light about this seemingly never happy, sour-faced woman that a stranger to the little town manages to view a peek of. But Jessica never planned to meet someone like Sam, who seems to have a hold on her heart from the very start, though she may not realize it in time... even when the answer seems to stare her in the face, it may be too late to make amends. There are many disasters/painful problems or just plain messes that occur in the book, and what Sam says in the middle of the first mess (he is putting in a window for Jessica in her office at work and there is plaster dust all over the place) seems to ring true through the whole book: It'll get worse before it gets better! That's not to say that the story line must go through any bad stages before it gets better - there is not a dull moment in Cape Light. But the pain the people who live there feel often reaches deeply before it withdraws: the problems these people face are not superficial, &quot;easy-answer&quot; challenges.<br />There are so many more wonderful people for you to meet in Cape Light - don't worry about losing track of everyone; they're easy to get to know. There is always something happening and always something for which you just have to keep turning the pages to see what will happen next. I agree with other reviwers: I can't wait for Kinkade and Spencer's next book; Cape Light was an excellent place for me to vacation this weekend, I was reluctant to return to my living room... and I'm ready to go back to Cape Light already! I think the agony of waiting will get worse before it gets better!al, &quot;easy-answer&quot; challenges.<br />There are so many more wonderful people for you to meet in Cape Light - don't worry about losing track of everyone; they're easy to get to know. There is always something happening and always something for which you just have to keep turning the pages to see what will happen next. I agree with other reviwers: I can't wait for Kinkade and Spencer's next book; Cape Light was an excellent place for me to vacation this weekend, I was reluctant to return to my living room... and I'm ready to go back to Cape Light already! I think the agony of waiting will get worse before it gets better!	2002-05-05
US	48954036	R2TOKURMDLA5UT	084994287X	636120405	Grace In Autumn (Heavenly Daze Series #2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Islanders find reasons to be thankful	I found Grace in Autumn to be so delightful because it's so believable and warmly written. Through the lives of the islanders, I got the feeling that God understands our struggles and is there for us when we're ready to get our broken dreams fixed:<br />Would you find it difficult to manage all the financial responsibilities of maintaining a house and providing for your family all on your own? Babette Graham does find it difficult, AND frustrating, to manage the finances by herself. Her husband says she's good at it and he isn't, so it makes sense for her to continue doing it. Babette is weighted down with worries about her family's financial needs, and when her 5-year-old son Georgie proves to have a flair for painting puffins, she sees an answer to her financial worries. Babette's husband Charles thinks his wife's plan is great and already is spending the money before it's made. But what does Georgie think of her plan?<br />How would you feel if you were trying to help someone, and your friends criticized you for it instead of pitching in to help? Bea and her sister Birdie are trying to send personal replies to the &quot;Dear Angel&quot; letters but when Birdie decides to send more of a gift to one of the letter-writers who is in dire need, members of the congregation question her decision. How does Birdie handle such criticism, and will her friends ever understand why she's done what she has?<br />Pack your worries away and take a vacation with the people of Heavenly Daze - the break will be well worth it because you'll return to your own life refreshed and revitalized.	2002-05-03
US	48954036	R2WLE0ZAZTDVCF	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Things aren't always what they seem to be	And people aren't always how they seem to be, either! I am not a political whiz, and there is a good serving of politics in this book, but even those who aren't politics-proficent can enjoy this book. Some of the weightier politics-related topics slowed me down, but Maguire writes with clarity and intrigue; it was worth the extra time spent reading the book to experience this different perspective on the lives of the &quot;Wizard of Oz&quot; cast. &quot;Wicked&quot; inspires some thought into the idea that sometimes people are NOT all bad even though one can get a glimpse of what appears to be atrocious behavior and make assumptions from there; there is always more than one side to the story; people can be used without their knowledge to accomplish an opponent's hidden agenda. It's not difficult to find Elphaba, the &quot;wicked witch of the west&quot; actually likable: her love of reading and her intelligence, her independent search for answers to satisfy her curiosities, her sense of humor, her need and desire for love and forgiveness, her love for someone other than herself, her passionate cause to help Animals - all these things made Elphie someone for whom I would have been glad to trade places with Glinda so I could have experienced her friendship. There is no way to prepare a reader in advance for what to expect from Maguire's book: Just as the Wizard of Oz is a fantasy full of surprises and twists, Wicked is nothing ordinary or common: Maybe it could be viewed as a Paul Harvey's &quot;the rest of the story.&quot;	2002-05-03
US	48954036	R2JUFBM45AC1U6	0440418224	969513200	Matilda Bone	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Life lessons	Father Leufredus has taught Matilda how to read, speak, and write Latin, how to read and write in English, information about various saints, how to pray in different positions and at several times during the day, how to judge, all about the countless things that are wrong and bad for her, but he hasn't taught her how to listen, to love, to laugh, to dream, or to give of herself. He hasn't taught her what a friend is, or what it feels like to belong. But when he drops her off to apprentice to Red Peg the Bonesetter on Blood and Bone Alley, Matilda's journey to learning how to LIVE life, to find her talents, her heart, her friends, her home - where she belongs - has finally begun.	2002-05-02
US	48954036	R3FQY0FFJ7VP1F	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well-balanced blend of friendship	This book will grab you and pull you in for the long haul, and if you want out to avoid the pain any of the Saving Graces feel, well - too bad... you'll find yourself irresistibly drawn to continue reading through your tears to find out what happens next. Gaffney has a nice style of authoring The Saving Graces: Emma (vibrant and sassy - fun, but full of desire for the kind of love it seems she's destined to go without), Rudy (big-hearted and searching for healing from a rough childhood), Isabel (the older of the Saving Graces, very classy, gentle, and wise), and Lee (organized, prepared, lucky in love) each take turns telling this story from their own points of view. There is no &quot;outside narrator.&quot; This gives the reader an inside look at each of the Saving Graces' inner thoughts, struggles, hopes, dreams. I loved how the friendships include the trying times real friends have: These four friends are true friends, but they DO argue, disagree, and speak before thinking, hurting the others. Sometimes one of the friends is hoping for something from one of the others that just doesn't happen. Of course there is also plenty of secret-sharing, support, comfort, forgiving and moving on, that makes a well-balanced blend of friendship that was meaningful to me. Made me lonely, though, for friends of my own.	2002-05-02
US	48954036	R1VLIALS68ZSOJ	0152008438	940354549	The Van Gogh Cafe	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Good book to read when you're feeling down	Not only does the magic renew Clara's (the 10 year-old who helps her father run the Van Gogh Cafe) hope and add a rainbow splash of color to her life, but the magic between Marc (Clara's father) and Clara struck me as inspiring, too. Marc and Clara share the work, and share the magic: The father and daughter make an interesting, enjoyable team to read about, from the time lightning struck the Cafe, to the time they met a very special writer and all the times in between. It seems Clara expects good things (magic) to happen, and that expectation is contagious to readers as they can't wait to find out what happens next in this book (which is a quick and easy read - it was over too soon). It's easy to get involved in The Van Gogh Cafe, and easy to find hope and cheer there.	2002-05-01
US	48954036	R3604XZXLVN8K7	084994306X	309339813	A Warmth in Winter (Heavenly Daze Series #3)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Warmth of having hope - any time of year	It's not necessary to read the previous &quot;Heavenly Daze&quot; books to enjoy this third tale in the series, but it doesn't hurt to familiarize yourself with the characters, either. The authors find ways to convey background information that you need to know if you haven't read the other books. Each of the &quot;Heavenly Daze&quot; books seems to focus on a few of the Maine island's occupants - this helps keep the reader interested (more than one person going through different situations), yet doesn't overwhelm the reader - though there are brief introductions of a multitude of islanders, the authors nicely put the spotlight on just a few and make them our friends by the end of the book.<br />Warmth in Winter is no different... during the holiday season, the reader gets to know Salt Gribbon, the old lighthouse keeper, his grandchildren whom he wants to hide away in an attempt to keep them safe, and Birdie Wester, the retired librarian who comes to Salt and the kids' rescue and depite her feelings of inadequacy, provides an abundance of love that they need. Though Salt doesn't have a specific angel tending him, Gavriel steps in beautifully and displays his unique angel personality a little more openly than the other books. We also meet Vernie's husband, Stanley who has been absent for 20 years. When he calls Vernie at Mooselouk Mercantile, he so flusters Vernie when she is trying to place an order for supplies that disaster occurs and Vernie doesn't know how to tell her friends the truth. Vernie thinks simply hanging up on Stan will solve the problem, but she doesn't count on his coming to Heavenly Daze after all of these years... And don't forget Annie, Olympia's niece, who visits the island on weekends to tend to her tomato experiment. Dr. Marc is still after her to meet his son, Alex, but Annie is NOT interested. She is interested, however, in going on a cruise over the holidays, but how can she think of leaving her aunt at a time when she needs her so much?<br />It's so easy to get addicted to this Heavenly Daze series. It's easy to relate to the islander's fears of being rejected and their aches and their hopes to get over those aches. Great book to curl up with any time of year, maybe more so when you're in need of a little extra hope.r />It's so easy to get addicted to this Heavenly Daze series. It's easy to relate to the islander's fears of being rejected and their aches and their hopes to get over those aches. Great book to curl up with any time of year, maybe more so when you're in need of a little extra hope.	2002-03-19
US	48954036	RZYBHJ0VME9J3	0688168434	392656097	Believing Is Seeing: Seven Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun variety of magic	Just to add to Eleanor's review, since she hadn't read Enna Hittims: Anne, who is home sick with the mumps (and who is very bored), makes up the hero Enna, an inch-high girl armed with an enchanted sword, who has wonderful adventures in the changing scenery that is Anne's bed (including Anne covered up different ways with her blanket). There is a wonderful twist to the story when Anne makes countless drawings of Enna and her friends which results in Anne getting a turn at being a hero!<br />Worth reading, because it sets one's mind working, trying to guess what might happen next, and the surprises are fun to find in these short stories.	2002-01-07
US	48954036	RCV21XP8W6PV4	0140374965	396860151	Utterly Yours, Booker Jones	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Successful recipe for an addicting read!	Some kids live for football games; some kids live for recess or weekends; Booker Jones lives to write.<br />I like the way the author intersperses Booker's creative endeavors (Attack of the Sistoid, for example) with the action of the book - the reader seems to be comfortable sitting under the dining room table (Booker has given up his bedroom for his grandfather) with him as he creates replies either in his mind or on his old typewriter to his sister's teasing or his mother's orders to finish homework and help take care of his grandfather; readers will probably also understand Booker's feelings of fighting a wandering mind during his least favorite subject (math).<br />Seems I experienced an equal amount of laughter and tears. The problems Booker (and his family) experience are ones that are realistically dealt with, and made interesting by the author- the story was fast-paced without losing the reader. The ending seems just right and doesn't force the reader to hunt down the sequel in order to answer questions... which may be the reason why I'm just as interested in hunting down that sequel as soon as I can!	2001-10-05
