US	48954632	R2XZN8J4YXF8LI	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Out of Conflict Comes Synthesis	Martin Cruz Smith is a former journalist and magazine editor. \\"Gorky Park\\" is his first novel to feature Arkady Renko, was first published in 1981 and is largely set in the Moscow before the collapse of the USSR. Renko, the hero, works as the Chief Homicide Investigator for Moscow's militia - unlike the KGB, who deal with matters if 'State interest', the militia are more or less the standard police force. Renko, therefore, deals with the 'everyday' murders. Displaying one unfortunate trait for a homicide investigator, however, he has a distinct aversion to corpses - though he has a 100% success rate in clearing cases. Unhappily married and somewhat cynical, he's not quite as active a Party member as his wife would like him to be - something that has also had a negative effect on his career. He also appears to be something of a disappointment to his father, a very famous retired General. Renko's boss, Prosecutor Iamskoy, seems to have a certain amount of affection for him though - the Prosecutor actually won an appeal for a worker wrongly convicted of murder thanks to Renko's work.     The book opens in Gorky Park, first park of the Revolution and favoured above all others. Three corpses have been found buried in the snow and, as a result, have been very well preserved. This means that, initially, the time of death can only be estimated as sometime that winter. All three victims - three men and a woman - were all shot through the heart, with the two men also having been shot through the head. The killer, clearly an expert marksman, also has access to a weapon Muscovites cannot typically lay their hands on. No papers could be found on the bodies, which have also been mutilated - the fingerprints and flesh on the faces has been removed, making a quick identification unlikely. One early lead, however, comes from the ice-skates the victims were wearing...    One of the other detectives assigned to the case, Pasha Pavlovich, had worked with Renko previously. Then, three corpses were found at the Kliazma River in remarkably similar circumstances to the Gorky Park killings. The pair immediately suspect the same individual is responsible in this case. However, as the chief suspect at the Kliazma River was a KGB Major called Pribluda, the pair promptly lost that case to the KGB. As Pribluda - who'd actually taken over the Kliazma River case - makes an early appearance at the scene in Gorky Park and interferes with the corpses, Arkady and Pasha expect the KGB to again quickly snatch this case from them. (Pribluda will, of course, be kept right up-to-date : a third detective assigned to the case, Fet, is a known KGB informant). In fact, as the cases progresses, even Renko thinks it looks more and more like a KGB case...though he suspects they would have little desire to `solve' it.       Overall, a very good book and well worth reading - for me, it would comfortably rest in the top tier of the murder-mystery genre. Renko is a very likeable character and, probably because of his `flaws', is very easy to relate with. Recommended.	2005-09-19
US	48954632	R1WZIQTKDL7FZ	0241142601	154037757	My Fathers' Daughter	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Story of Adoption	Hannah Pool, a journalist for a British newspaper, was born in a small Eritrean town called Keren in 1974. Placed in an orphanage in Asmara, Eritrea's capital, shortly after her birth she grew up believing her mother had died in childbirth with her father dying shortly afterwards. When she was roughly six months old, malnourished and suffering from chicken pox, she was adopted by David Pool, a British academic, and his American wife, Marya. At the time, David was teaching at the University of Khartoum and Marya was doing voluntary work with some nuns.<br /><br />Marya died when Hannah was four and briefly went to stay with some friends in Norway before moving back to England with her dad. By the time she was twenty, David was lecturing at Manchester University, with Eritrean politics among his areas of expertise. When Eritrea won its independence from Ethiopia in the early 1990s, the guerrilla fighters he'd got to know in the 1970s had become government ministers. David was among the people invited over for the celebrations and, on impulse, went looking for the orphanage in Asmara. Not only was it still standing, it was still being run by the same nun - Sister Gabriela - who'd arranged Hannah's adoption.<br /><br />Several months after David's return home came the bombshell : a priest David had spoken to at the orphanage wrote a letter with the news that not only was Hannah's biological father still alive, she also had at least one older brother. \\"My Fathers' Daughter\\" tells the story of Hannah's trip back to Eritrea to meet her 'natural' family for the first time.<br /><br />This is a very easily read book, though it can't have been a very easy one to write. Hannah doesn't spare herself - her doubts, panics, frustrations and the occasional bout of confusion are all covered. The fact that much of the book is written in the present tense, in nearly a conversational tone, really helped put those feelings across. At times, it felt like I was intruding on something a little too personal - like someone else's diary, I was unsure I 'should' be reading parts of it. At the same time, however, it almost felt like the book finished too soon. The epilogue, looking back over the year after she returned home, could nearly have been worth a book itself. Very highly recommended.	2005-09-08
US	48954632	R1WE353I9CEJPN	0470018925	284023678	Su Doku for Dummies	Books	5	12	13	N	N	How to Su Doku Without Getting Hurt	Su Doku is a number puzzle originally developed in Japan. It consists of a 9x9 grid, divided into nine 3x3 sub-grids. Each row and column must contain the numbers 1 to 9, which means that no number can appear more than once. Furthermore, each 3x3 sub-grid must also contain all the digits from 1 to 9, which again means that no number can appear more than once. With each puzzle, some of the numbers are already in place - your job is to fill in the blanks. The number and positioning of the numbers given to you will determine how easy or difficult the puzzle is. There is - or, at least, there should be - only one solution, which can be solved by reasoning and elimination.  <br />  <br />The bulk of \\"Su Doku for Dummies\\" is made up of the Su Doku puzzles themselves. (Thankfully, their solutions are also included). However, it also starts with an explanation of Su Doku's rules and provides a detailed approach on how to start solving the puzzles - which is very helpful for those, like me, who have never tried them before. If you are already a successful Su Doku puzzle solver, you'll probably not learn much from this section. You will still, however, have over 200 new puzzles to solve.  <br />  <br />You don't need to have studied maths in depth to enjoy Su Doku - a knowledge of Calculus isn't required, while those who studies Classical Mechanics will have absolutely no advantage over those who didn't. However, a sense of logic, a pencil and an eraser (don't rub too hard, though !) will be a great help. Highly recommended for puzzle-solvers everywhere ! <br />	2005-08-08
US	48954632	R3F7KVKUUZ06AV	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Wizard's Staff Has A Knob On The End	Terry Pratchett's first novel, \\"The Carpet People\\", appeared in 1971. \\"Wyrd Sisters\\" is the sixth novel in his hugely popular Discworld series and his second (after \\"Equal Rites\\") to feature Granny Weatherwax, the Discworld's greatest witch. It was first published in 1988 and was later made into a cartoon. Pratchett won the 2001 Carnegie Medal for \\"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\\" and was awarded the OBE in 1998. <br /> <br />Granny Weatherwax is joined in \\"Wyrd Sisters\\" by the two other members of her recently formed coven. One, Nanny Ogg, is the raucous head of the Ogg clan based in Lancre town. (She also owns a fearsome, one-eyed tomcat with an unbridled libido called Greebo). The other is Magrat Garlick, who has a few fanciful ideas about magic that Granny doesn't altogether approve of - dancing, occult jewellery, runes and the healing power of colours, for example. The trio are caught up in Lancre's political affairs when Duke Felmet decides it's time for his cousin, King Verence, to 'retire' - and kindly plants a dagger into the King's back. The King's infant son and the Kingdom's crown are delivered into the witches' hands by an escaping servant loyal to the deceased King - who now haunts the castle, desperately longing for the ability to eat. The coven, in turn, christens the royal orphan 'Tomjon' and, for his protection, put him in the care of a travelling theatre. The new king, however, is such a disaster they realise Tomjon must return to the throne as quickly as possible.  <br /> <br />Although \\"Wyrd Sisters\\" is most obviously a parody of Shakespeare's \\"Macbeth\\", you don't have to have read the Scottish play to enjoy the book. Having said that, even a basic awareness of the Bard's work should increase the number of laughs. Hwel, the dwarven playwright for the travelling band of actors, seems to owe a little to Shakespeare himself and when the troupe settle in Ankh-Morpork their home theatre is named \\"The Dysk\\". (Shakespeare's, of course, wascalled \\"The Globe\\"). Hwel, at various points, was also on the verge of 'inventing' the Discworld's versions of the Marx Brothers, Laurel and Hardy and Charlie Chaplin. Duke Felmet's Fool, who falls in love with Magrat, not only hates his job but is clearly a good deal more intelligent than his paranoid boss. (The Fool and the young witch also deliver what is quite possibly the longest kiss in literature). However, it's Nanny Ogg - with her fondness for a 'knees up' and a vulgar song - who is my favorite character. Thoroughly recommended !	2005-08-03
US	48954632	R1OQW99GWBD963	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Da Do Won-Won-Won, Da Do Won-Won	Orphaned as a baby and subsequently raised (in the loosest possible terms) by his Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, Harry's early years were thoroughly miserable. Although he had been told his parents had been killed in a car crash, in reality they were murdered by an evil wizard called Voldemort. Harry, however, somehow survived this attack and Voldemort subsequently disappeared for many years. Tracked down by an apparent giant called Hagrid on his eleventh birthday, Harry discovered he was a wizard and has since been attending Hogwarts - a very prestigious school for training young witches and wizards. The school's headmaster Albus Dumbledore, considered by many to be the greatest wizard of modern times, has become something of a role model to Harry. His time has Hogwarts has provided also him with some of the happiest moments of his life : he has made friends for the first time (Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger and Hagrid being the most notable) and has become the Seeker on Gryffindor's Quidditch team. (Gryffindor is Harry's house, while Quidditch is the most popular wizard sport). Unfortunately, it has also become apparent that Voldemort's disappearance was only temporary, and his desire to kill Harry has not lessened. Furthermore, some of his key followers are also at Hogwarts. Professor Snape, the Potions teacher who has picked on Harry from the day he arrived, was a noted Death Eater. Draco Malfoy, Harry's arch-nemesis among the student body, is the son of another noted Death Eater...who, thanks to Harry, is now in prison.    The Order of the Phoenix is a secret society formed by Dumbledore to lead the fight against Voldemort and his Death Eaters. Snape, despite being a former Death Eater, has also been admitted - although Harry believes this is a mistake, Dumbledore is convinced Snape has fully turned his back on his former master. However, as \\"The Half-Blood Prince\\" opens it appears that Harry's fears may be correct. Snape meets with Draco Malfoy's mother, Narcissa, and aunt, Bellatrix - both Death Eaters - in a small and dirty house in London. Although he may be working undercover for Dumbledore, the details of this meeting suggest he may actually be working undercover for Voldemort. It also becomes apparent that Voldemort, angry that Lucius failed in his mission at the end of \\"The Order of the Phoenix\\", has given Draco a very dangerous assignment.     Harry's ambition after leaving school is to be an Auror and, to be selected for this position, he needs to have done well at NEWT Level in Defence Against the Dark Arts and Potions. While Harry has always excelled in Defence Against the Dark Arts, Snape has made it clear he will not accept anyone into his NEWT-level Potions class who hasn't achieved the top grade at OWL Level. When Harry's OWL results come through, it seems his dream is over : while he's done well in Potions, he hasn't achieved the top grade. However, on returning to Hogwarts, he finds that Snape has been appointed the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher while the new Potions teacher, Horace Slughorn is more than happy to accept him into the Potions class. Since he hadn't bought any books for the Potions course in Diagon Alley, Slughorn lends Harry an old copy of the textbook from the classroom's store. It puts Harry at an immediate advantage over his classmates, thanks to some very helpful notes made by its previous owner...someone who called himself the 'Half-Blood Prince'.      Dumbledore has decided to give Harry some additional 'classes' this year, where he learns more about Voldemort's past. However, they're not very regular as Dumbledore seems to be spending a lot of time away from Hogwarts. Furthermore, Dumbledore seems to have had a difficult summer as he arrives back at school with a very badly burned hand. He also has in his possession a ring that once belonged to Salazar Slytherin and his heir - Lord Voldemort.     With \\"The Half-Blood Prince\\", J.K Rowling has written another excellent book - although quite dark in places, it's very enjoyable and is very easily read. I was particularly looking forward to seeing how Harry's rivalry with Malfoy would intensify and I wasn't let down. What did surprise me, though, was how Draco coped with his task - and I'm now very curious to see what he'll get up to in the next book. (The same goes for Snape - for some reason, I'm not entirely sure he's all he appears to be - and I have a feeling that Mundungus Fletcher's brief appearance in this book might yet prove significant). The only disappointment was that Luna and Neville didn't feature more. If you're new to Harry Potter, I would recommend reading the series in order - this is the sixth book in the series and it picks up on certain events from the previous instalments. However, that shouldn't be too much of a burden, as the previous books are also very enjoyable !	2005-07-31
US	48954632	R1CSEDZF80YRQD	0446611611	817062475	City of Bones (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Where Next, Harry Bosch ?	\\"City of Bones\\" is Michael Connelly's thirteenth book, his eighth to feature Harry Bosch and was first published in 2002. Orphaned at the age of twelve when his mother was murdered, Bosch spent his teenage years in and out of orphanages. He enlisted in the army and served in Viet-Nam, before returning home to Los Angeles and joining the police force. Once a member of the LAPD's elite RHD (Robbery-Homicide Division), he was demoted in the Hollywood Division following an Internal Affairs investigation. Bosch has occasionally been seen by some as a maverick, but increasingly by others as a 'man with a mission' and an excellent homicide investigator. Harry is one of the senior detectives at Hollywood's homicide table, and is Squad One's team leader. Although he continues to work with Jerry Edgar, the team's third member - Kiz Rider - has yet to be replaced following her promotion to RHD.  <br /> <br />\\"City of Bones\\" provides both a difficult case and a rough ride for Harry. A retired doctor makes a call to the department, saying that his dog had returned from a run in the Hollywood Hills carrying a human bone. A number of calls like this are made every year, which normally turn out to be bogus: however, this time, there is no mistake. Dr. Guyot, the caller, has correctly identified it as a child's humerus and has also identified a healed fracture on the bone. Using the dog to discover where the humerus had been buried, a subsequent, more detailed search recovers about sixty per-cent of the skeleton. This includes the skull, where the fatal blow was apparently struck. The remains are of a boy, possibly as young as ten, and show evidence of several years worth of chronic abuse. The best initial guess for the time of death, meanwhile, is between the mid-seventies and the mid-eighties - making the investigation a 'cold case', the hardest cases to close. The first step, obviously, is to identify the victim - a process that included looking at the list of missing persons whomatch the criteria for age and the time of disappearance. As harsh as it sounds, the injuries that made the boy's life so difficult may provide the key identifying him - and, possibly, the killer.  <br /> <br />When Bosch first arrives at Dr. Guyot's house, a couple of uniformed cops are already there. The junior partner, Julia Brasher, is a rookie (or 'boot') who Bosch is immediately attracted to. Given that Bosch is at supervisor level, it's against regulations to allow anything other than a professional relationship between the pair. However, given a pretty face, who also seems rather taken with him, and a chance to bend the rules, there's generally only one thing Harry Bosch is capable of doing...and when Bosch bends the rules, it generally means trouble. <br /> <br />After \\"A Darkness More Than Night\\", when the action was divided between Harry and Terry McCaleb, this is a return to a 'straightforward' Bosch book - and is much better for having only one 'main' character. You won't feel too left out if you've never read any of the other Bosch books before. However, it's probably better if you've read at least a couple of them : there's a few passing references to some of the events of his previous adventures - the story behind his scar on his shoulder and his relationship with Teresa Corazn, for example. Recommended.  <br />	2005-07-25
US	48954632	R3E3GBRD5AWT0K	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Every Witch Way But Loose	Terry Pratchett's first novel, \\"The Carpet People\\", appeared in 1971. \\"Equal Rites\\" is the third novel in Terry Pratchett's hugely popular Discworld series and was first published in 1987. He won the 2001 Carnegie Medal for \\"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\\" and was awarded the OBE in 1998.<br /><br />The book starts with an ending - Drum Billets', specifically. Drum was a wizard and, as a result, knows exactly when he is going to die. (It's one of the perks of the job : wizards are also delivered into the next life by Death himself, rather than one of his more minor demons). Shortly before he is due to die, Drum visits Bad Ass to 'pass on' his wizarding skill to the eighth son of an eighth son - the wife of the local smith has just given birth when he arrives. (Bad Ass, for the record, is a village on the Ramtop Mountains in the small kingdom of Lancre).  Unfortunately, he fails to check the gender of the new arrival and has exited-stage-left before finding out he has, in fact, just passed on his skills and his near indestructible staff to the first daughter of an eighth son instead.<br /><br />The midwife, Granny Weatherwax, is also the village's resident witch - a fine and noble profession on the Discworld. (Unlike wizards, witches don't have leaders, and Granny Weatherwax is widely considered to be the greatest leader the Discworld's witches don't have). She also believes that there can't be a female wizard any more than there could be a male witch - partly due, she says, to the differences between how male and female brains work. Witches' magic is based on headology, while wizards' magic is based on jommetry. (That sort of spelling doesn't appear to be Granny's strong point). Furthermore, if Esk (as the smith has named his daughter) wanted to become a wizard, she'd have to study at Ankh-Morpork's Unseen University - which, like a very old-fashioned golf club, has never admitted a female. Hoping the wizard's magic won't find Esk, but realising it might, Granny Weatherwax decides to watch over her and possibly train her as a witch instead.<br /><br />This is the first of the Discworld series to feature Granny Weatherwax. As a result, it's a pretty good starting point if you've never read any of the other Discworld books and want to see what you're missing. Pratchett's books are always very funny, and this one gets funnier as it goes along. Definitely recommended.herwax decides to watch over her and possibly train her as a witch instead.    This is the first of the Discworld series to feature Granny Weatherwax. As a result, it's a pretty good starting point if you've never read any of the other Discworld books and want to see what you're missing. Pratchett's books are always very funny, and this one gets funnier as it goes along. Definitely recommended.	2005-07-20
US	48954632	R2AQUK9O9HVIYI	0214668169	684914209	Sam the Sudden	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Capital Alternative to "Pyke's Home Campanion"	Probably best known for his Jeeves and Wooster books, P.G. Wodehouse was born in Surrey in 1881. His first book, \\"The Pothunters\\", was published in 1902 and he went on to write over 70 novels. He also wrote many short stories, with Jeeves making his first appearance in one of them. This book was first published in 1925 as \\"Sam the Sudden\\" in the UK, but as \\"Sam in the Suburbs\\" in the US.     The book's hero is Sam Shotter, the nephew of the hugely successful businessman John B. Pynsent. Although from New York, Sam was educated at Wrykyn, in England. (Mike Jackson, Psmith's trusty sidekick, is another former pupil). However, as the book opens, he has been working for his uncle for three months and has succeeded in little more than kissing stenographers, organising high-kicking competitions and generally demoralising the workforce. As a result, Uncle John feels he has no option : Sam is to leave the Pynsent Import and Export Company immediately and take up a position at Lord Tilbury's Mammoth Publishing Company in London. (Lord Tilbury is currently holding negotiations with Sam's uncle and hopes to curry favor with him by 'helping' him with his troublesome nephew). Rather than travelling in luxury with Lord Tilbury on the Mauretania, however, Sam makes the trip to England on the Araminta, a tramp steamer. A close friend of Sam's, Hash Todhunter, is the steamer's pessimistic cook - someone whose company Sam finds a good deal more enjoyable than his future employer. When he finally arrives in London, Sam finds himself a little short on funds. This is largely due to Hash secretly emptying Sam's wallet to back a greyhound at the local dog-track. Luckily, Sam stumbles across Willoughby Braddock, another old Wrykynian. Braddock, despite staying as a guest with a former neighbour, is remarkably drunk and offers to put Sam up for the night. Sam had been  on a fishing trip in Canada several months previously and had found a girl's photograph pinned on the wall of a hut he'd taken shelter in. He had, naturally, fallen in love with the girl in the photo. When he discovers the object of his desires, Kay Derrick, lives in the house he is spending the night in, he decides that nothing will stop him winning her heart. The first step in his plan involves renting the empty house next door. Unfortunately, three criminals - Soapy and Dolly Molloy and Chimp Twist - have their eyes on the same house. They believe the proceeds from a former colleagues heist has been hidden in Sam's new home - and they're not about to turn their backs on two million dollars. (They would, however, be quite happy to double-cross each other if it meant they didn't have to split it).     Wodehouse is a very funny author and has a very distinctive style of writing. He isn't afraid to use outrageous twists of fate to make sure that if something can go wrong (or right, depending on your point of view), it will. This was one of the first books by Wodehouse I read, and it remains one of my favorites - I really can't see it failing to raise a smile. As the author himself said : \\"Sam the Sudden\\" is darned good.	2005-06-08
US	48954632	R2TMRNX8T9G427	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Rhymes with Anonymous	\\"The Closers\\" is Michael Connelly's fifteenth novel, his eleventh to feature Harry Bosch and was first published in 2005. Orphaned at twelve when his mother was murdered, Bosch's teenage years were spent in and out of orphanages. He enlisted in the army and served in Viet-Nam, before returning home and joining the police force. Once a member of the LAPD's elite RHD (Robbery-Homicide Division), he was demoted to the Hollywood Division after an Internal Affairs investigation. After more than ten years in Hollywood, he was notified of a 'promotion' back to RHD - however, he chose to quit the force instead. Bosch had occasionally been seen by some as a maverick, but increasingly by others as a 'man with a mission'. He left the LAPD with an armful of Hollywood's open-unsolved cases, tool out a private investigator's licence and continued to 'speak for the dead'. However, a couple of phone calls from a former partner, Kizmin Rider, have now led to his return to the LAPD. <br /> <br />\\"The Closers\\" tells of Bosch's first case back with the Department. Although he has been partnered with Kiz Rider again, Harry is now working in a very different environment. The pair have been assigned to the Open - Unsolved Unit and are based at the Parker Center rather than at Hollywood. Kiz had worked with the Police Chief as a policy advisor after leaving Hollywood : she had impressed sufficiently for him to approve both Bosch's return to the Department and her transfer to the Unit. However, Harry has been put on probation for a year : any mistake will be punished with a very quick return to civilian life. Harry's arch-nemesis, Deputy-Chief Irving, doesn't take long in 'welcoming' him back. Irving, once a very powerful figure in the Department, has been sidelined by the new Chief and given a minor posting away from the Parker Center. However, he is convinced that Bosch will make a blunder so embarrassing to the Chief it will guarantee his own return to power : nobody else, he feels, could clear up the subsequent mess. <br /> <br />Bosch's first case is a 'cold' hit. Rebecca Verloren, a sixteen-year-old mixed-race schoolgirl, was murdered in 1988. A couple of early blunders in the original investigation had led to the case initially being written off as suicide. However, after the autopsy was completed and the gun was analysed, the case was re-classified a murder. Unfortunately, no suspects were ever identified and the case went cold. However, some blood and tissue had been found inside the gun and recent advances in DNA comparison techniques have given the department a possible suspect and motive. Roland Mackey, although his record hadn't included murder, had been a serial offender and did have links to some white-power groups - including the Chatsworth Eights. Furthermore, the gun used to kill Rebecca had been stolen from a Jewish man who had been harassed by the Eights. However, Harry and Kiz both realise they don't yet have enough evidence to bring a string case against Mackey. There are also a few loose ends that may need looking into. Rebecca, it would appear, had a few secrets - including a boyfriend, a pregnancy and an abortion. <br /> <br />Connelly has produced another very good book. He has made the right decision in returning Harry to the LAPD, and a very clever one in not returning him to Hollywood. I was glad to see Harry contacting Jerry Edgar (a former partner) at one point, while a meeting with Thelma Kibble provides an enjoyable couple of pages. Thelma, who had made her first appearance in the standalone novel \\"Void Moon\\", turns up here as Mackey's probation agent. The meeting reminds Harry of the events of \\"A Darkness More Than Night\\" and also a neighbour he had in Vegas, during \\"The Narrows\\". It would probably be a slight advantage, though it's not entirely necessary, to have read one or two of the previous Bosch novels. \\"Angel's Flight\\", an excellent book, would give an indication of Harry's relationship with both Kiz Rider andIrving - either way, \\"The Closers\\" is definitely recommended. <br />	2005-05-24
US	48954632	R3RGMZMMZ9EHZR	0060586605	863190678	A Hat Full of Sky	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stitch This, Bigjobs !	First published in 2004 and set on the Discworld, \\"A Hat Full of Sky\\" is the sequel to \\"The Wee Free Men\\" and sees Tiffany Aching return as the book's heroine. Tiffany, now eleven years old, has been brought up on a farm in an area on the Chalk. She has six older sisters, one younger brother, wields a mean frying pan, is very good with cheese and has already impressed the Discworld's greatest witch. Granny Aching, who dies when Tiffany was seven, continues to be a big influence on her grand-daughter. Granny was a shepherdess, very fond of Jolly Sailor tobacco and - Tiffany is convinced - a witch. Remembering how Granny said it was important to stand up for those who have no voice, Tiffany has decided she wants to follow in her footsteps.     The book also features an exceptionally rowdy, and thoroughly entertaining, bunch of fairies. The Wee Free Men, we also known as the Nac Mac Feegle, are a Pictsie race who were thrown out of Fairyland for being drunk, disorderly and rebellious. They are covered in tattoos, have red hair and blue skin and wear little other thank kilts and swords. An extremely fast and strong race, they are fond of fighting, stealing and drinking - Granny Aching's Special Sheep Liniment is a particular favorite. There have been a few changes since \\"The Wee Free Men\\", however. The clan now has a new gonnagle, Awf'ly Wee Billy Bigchin Mac Feegle, and a new Kelda, Jeannie of the Long Lake. Jeannie, as tradition demands, has married the Big Man o' the Clan, Rob Anybody Feegle. She is also responsible for possibly the biggest change of them all. The Nac Mac Feegle had once been afraid of reading and writing, believing it to be a dangerous type of magic. Jeannie now wants the clan, beginning with Rob Anybody, to learn how to read and write. For a while during \\"The Wee Free Men\\", however, Tiffany was the clan's temporary Kelda - as a result, they have never forgotten her and still try to protect her. It also means that Jeannie doesn't like or trust the young hag at all.      As the book opens, Tiffany is leaving the Chalk for a spell (boom boom !). She's been apprenticed to Miss Level, a very peculiar research witch but clearly with some talent. (Miss Level's cottage is also home to Oswald, a kind of anti-poltergeist : instead of messing things up, he's obsessively tidy). Tiffany travels to Miss Level's with Miss Tick : unknown to either of then, however, they are being followed by a hiver. This is a type of demon without a body, brain or shape of its own. Instead, they search for and take refuge in bodies of great power - and this particular hiver has targeted Tiffany. Tiffany has inadvertently learnt how to 'borrow', a trick which leaves her own body unattended. Unfortunately, this will makes things easier for the hiver to take up residence. Luckily, the Wee Free Men want to follow and protect her - if they can convince their new Kelda it's a good idea.     Like everything else I've read by Pratchett, this is an excellent book. It's easily read, features plenty of likeable characters and there are plenty of laughs. Although I would recommend reading \\"The Wee Free Men\\" before this instalment \\"A Hat Full of Sky\\" is definitely recommended !	2005-05-24
US	48954632	R3SV4KSF158ONG	0345391829	458212829	Life, the Universe and Everything (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Flying : How to Throw Yourself at the Ground and Miss	Written by Douglas Adams, \\"Life, the Universe and Everything\\" was first published in 1982 and is the third instalment of his legendary five-part \\"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\" trilogy. It opens around five years after \\"The Restaurant at the End of the Universe\\" finished, but follows up on what has happened in the previous books - as a result, it's the wrong place to start !! The series started life as a radio show, before becoming a book, a television series, a play and a bath towel. Douglas Adams was born in Cambridge in 1952 and died in May 2001.  <br /> <br />Recent years haven't been kind to Arthur Dent. Having seen his home flattened by bulldozers, he barely escaped with his life when the Earth was demolished by the Vogons - officially to make way for a hyperspace bypass. Arthur was rescued by Ford Prefect, a roving reporter for \\"The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\". The pair were later picked up by an old school-friend of Fords, Zaphod Beeblebrox - the two-headed, three-armed, renegade ex-President of the Galaxy and owner of the most powerful and unpredictable ship in the universe. Having met Slartibartfast, the man who designed Norway, and eaten at the restaurant at the end of the universe, an unprogrammed teleport sees Arthur and Ford landing on...a prehistoric Earth.  <br /> <br />As the book opens, Arthur has been living alone in a cold, damp, smelly cave for five years. Living alone in what would become Islington roughly two million years later, he hasn't had any company since the surviving Golgafrinchans went on holiday about three years previously. Ford, having spent the last three years in prehistoric Africa, is now responsible for the giraffe and returns just in time to save Arthur from madness. He has detected eddies in the space - time continuum, which he suspects may provide the pair with an escape route. His suspicions are proved correct : the pair catch an over-active Chesterfield sofa which carries them forward through time and deposits them at Lords Cricket Ground - just two days before the Vogons are due to demolish Earth. The arrive just in time to see England defeat Australia in a very important cricket match, a spaceship containing robotic 'cricketers' arriving to kill people and steal the Ashes (the 'trophy' being played for) and Slartibartfast trying to stop them. Slartibartfast kindly agrees to give the duo a lift, meaning they won't have to hitch a ride with the Vogons again. However, he seems to expect them to help him save the universe - a task that involves them discovering that cricket is actually derived from Krikket and that robotic cricketers are generally best avoided. Ford, on the other hand, aims to be exceedingly drunk and would rather visit Eccentrica Gallumbits - a very capable lady of negotiable affections. <br /> <br />This is an extremely silly and very easily read book - though it probably does assume a certain awareness of cricket. Hugely enjoyable and definitely recommended - though only after having read the previous two instalments ! <br />	2005-05-10
US	48954632	R25CRUREM41GOV	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nobody Writes Jokes in Base 13	Written by Douglas Adams, \\"The Restaurant at the End of the Universe\\" was first published in 1980 and is the second instalment of his legendary five-part \\"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\" trilogy. It starts within a matter of hours of where \\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\" finished so - at the risk of stating the obvious - is entirely the wrong place to start !! The series started life as a radio show, before becoming a book, a television series, a play and a bath towel. Douglas Adams was born in Cambridge in 1952 and died in May 2001 in California.     The Earth has been destroyed, officially to make way for a hyperspace bypass, and only two humans - Arthur Dent and Tricia McMillan - have survived. Arthur was rescued by an old friend called Ford Prefect - a roving reporter for \\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\", a sort of interstellar Rough Guide. The pair managed to escape the demolition of Earth by sneaking on-board the Vogon ship in charge of its destruction. Arthur and Ford are later picked up by Zaphod Beeblebrox, the two-headed, three-armed, renegade ex-President of the Galaxy and an old school-friend of Ford's. Beeblebrox's spaceship, \\"The Heart of Gold\\", is the most powerful and unpredictable ship in the universe. Its crew is completed by Marvin, a paranoid android, and Trillian - as Tricia is now known - she'd met Zaphod at a party some months previously.    At the end of \\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\", Zaphod had decided to visit Milliways, the restaurant at the end of the universe. However, following an argument with the ship's computer, he has to calculate the improbability factor the need to actually get there himself. Unfortunately, the Vogon ship that destroyed Earth is approaching the \\"Heart of Gold\\" with a view to killing the planet's last surviving ex-residents. With the computer frozen, trying to understand how to make a cup of tea for Arthur, there is no apparent escape. The only possible option is to hold a sance, so Zaphodcan ask his deceased great-grandfather for help. That help involves a trip to Ursa Minor Beta, home to a certain hugely popular guide book, and Frogstar B, the most evil world in the galaxy and home to the Total Perspective Vortex.     Like \\"Hitchhiker's...\\", this is an extremely silly and very easily-read book. However, although there's more of a point to what the characters get up to in this instalment, I'd still recommend reading \\"Hitchhiker's...\\" first. Hugely enjoyable and highly recommended.	2005-05-10
US	48954632	R1AQWS07Q7OSR9	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Don't Panic	Written by Douglas Adams, \\"The Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Galaxy\\" was first published in 1979 and is the first instalment of his legendary five-part trilogy. (Adams apparently attributed this to a poor grasp of arithmetic). The series started life as a radio show, before becoming a book, a television series, a play and a bath towel. After years of trying, it was finally adapted for the big screen in 2005. Douglas Adams was born in Cambridge in 1952 and died in May 2001, while working on the film's screenplay.     Arthur Dent wakes up on a Thursday morning with a raging hangover. Having left London about three years before the book opens, he now lives in England's West Country. That, however, is about to change : the local council has decided to knock down his house to make way for a bypass. Although their plans had officially been place for around nine months, they had somehow 'forgotten' to mention it to Arthur until the previous day - hence, the raging hangover. In a very bad start to the day, his hangover is interrupted by a bulldozer trundling up the garden path.    Things aren't about to get any better, either. Arthur's one-man protest is disturbed by Ford Prefect - a very good friend who drags him off to \\"The Horse and Groom\\", with the express intention of drinking several pints of bitter. The pair have been friends for around five or six years. So far as Arthur knows, Ford is an out-of-work actor from Guildford. In fact, he comes from a small planet near Betelgeuse, is a roving reporter from \\"The Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Galaxy\\" (imagine an interstellar Rough Guide) and has been marooned on Earth for about fifteen years. Unfortunately, it's come to his attention that the world is about to end : the Vogons, on behalf of the Galactic Hyperspace Planning Council, need to demolish Earth to make way for a hyperspace bypass. Fortunately, Ford has a way out and he plans to bring Arthur with him.     After surviving the demolition and some Vogon poetry, the pair arepicked up by Zaphod Beeblebrox - the two-headed, three-armed, renegade President of the Imperial Galactic Government and an old friend of Ford's. Beeblebrox has managed to 'acquire' a very stylish spaceship called 'The Heart of Gold' - a ship with a very improbable fuel source. The ship's crew is completed by Trillian, a human female, and Marvin, a paranoid android.    This is an exceptionally enjoyable, extremely funny and very easily read book - Terry Pratchett fans, in particular, should enjoy this.	2005-04-27
US	48954632	R3KID2IH42R8Z0	0312301995	724784491	The Distant Echo (Mcdermid, Val)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ziggy Stardust & the Spiders from the Dark Side of the Moon	Val McDermid grew up in Kirkcaldy, a small mining community on the east coast of Scotland and studied English at Oxford University. The books she has written featuring Tony Hill and Carol Jordan have provided the basis for the popular \\"Wire on the Blood\\" television series. Her novels have won a number of awards, including the Macavity award, the Anthony Award and Grand Prix des Romans d'Aventure. \\"The Distant Echo\\", meanwhile, has picked up the Sherlock and Barry Awards and has been nominated for the Theakston's Old Peculiar Crime Novel of the Year. It is one of her stand-alone books, was first published in 2003 and is largely set in Scotland.  <br /> <br />The story begins in December 1978 with four students at St. Andrew's University staggering home together after an end-of-term party. Alex \\"Gilly\\" Gilbey, Sigmund \\"Ziggy\\" Malkiewicz, Tom \\"Weird\\" Mackie and Davey \\"Mondo\\" Kerr grew up in the nearby village of Kirkcaldy and - despite differences of opinion about David Bowie and Pink Floyd - have been close friends since school. Taking their usual short-cut over Hallow Hill, a hidden tree-root and a shove form Weird sees Alex literally stumbling across something he'd rather have avoided. Rosie Duff, the Lammas Bar's nineteen year-old barmaid, has been raped, stabbed and is barely alive when Alex lands on her. Ziggy, a medical student, tries to keep her alive while Alex runs for help - however, by the time he returns with PC Jimmy Lawson, Rosie has died. Worse is to come : DI Barney Maclennan, who leads the subsequent murder investigation, views the four friends as the prime suspects rather than key witnesses. The police's attempts at an investigation, and their suspicions about the students, become common knowledge : the early part of the book covers the initial investigation and its effects on the four friends. However, they aren't charged, and the case never comes to court.  <br /> <br />In late 2003, Fife Police announce they are to look into Rosie's murder again as part of a full-scale cold case review. While the Laddies fi' Kirkcaldy were never charged, there are some who are still convinced of their guilt - including Rosie's brothers, a pair with a violent record. By now, Alex is living in Edinburgh, Mondo is in Glasgow, while Ziggy and Weird are living in America. On the twenty-fifth anniversary of Rosie's murder, a date Alex has never been able to forget, he receives a phone call : one of his three friends is dead, killed in what turns out to be an arson attack. Attending the funeral, he notices a wreath made of rosemary and white roses. The message, unsigned, reads \\"Rosemary for Remembrance\\". Alex, remembering that Rosie's full name was Rosemary Duff, has started feeling somewhat edgy... <br /> <br />This is the first novel by McDermid I've read, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's difficult not to feel sorry for, and worried about, Alex and his friends bearing in mind what the investigation is doing to them, the strain it puts on their friendship and how they are widely viewed as pariahs. The book features plenty of twists and turns, is very easily read and is one I would highly recommend.	2005-04-26
US	48954632	R2LZ88NMANK4Z6	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	That's All, Fowkkes !	\\"A Darkness More Than Night\\" is Michael Connelly's tenth book, his second to feature Terry McCaleb and was first published in 1999. McCaleb, who made his first appearance in \\"Blood Work\\", is a former FBI Agent who retired after a heart attack. He lives on Catalina Island, runs a fishing charter and has now married Graciela Rivers. The couple met when Graciela asked him to look into her sister's murder, some three years previously. Since then, McCaleb hasn't been involved in any investigation - until Jaye Winston comes to visit. Winston, a Sheriff's detective, requests his help with a murder she's investigating - something she terms Terry's \\"sort of thing\\". Edward Gunn, the victim, was killed in his apartment in what appears to have been a very carefully constructed murder. Studying the case file, McCaleb notes some of the more significant features, including the message written on the victim's gag. However, he spots something on the crime scene video that Winston seems to have overlooked. A hand-painted plastic owl - roughly two feet in height - had been placed on the shelves in such a way that it 'watched' as Gunn died.     A background check on Gunn shows that he was 'known' to the police : he had a record for 'small-time' crimes, including soliciting for prostitution and drink-driving. He had also been questioned by the LAPD about the murder of a prostitute six years previously. However, the department reluctantly dropped the case and wrote it off as self-defence. McCaleb notices that the lead detective on the case was a man he'd once worked with : Harry Bosch. McCaleb decides to contact him, initially to see if he has any thoughts about Gunn's murder. The investigation, however, puts a very different slant on things and ensures the two men will be talking again.    Bosch, who makes his seventh appearance in this book, is already a well-established character. Orphaned at the age of twelve, he is the son of a prostitute who named him after the Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch. After serving in Viet-Nam, he returned home and joined the LAPD. He was once a member of the elite Robbery-Homicide Department, but following an IAD investigation was demoted to the Hollywood Division. While McCaleb is investigating the Gunn killing, Bosch is in court helping to prosecute a high-profile case. The defendant, David Storey, is a very famous (and notorious) film director, charged with the murder of a young actress. Jody Krementz's body had been found in her own bed, though it was believed the pose was staged so that it would look like accidental death. Storey is joined at the defence table by John Reason Fowkkes, his lawyer, and Rudy Tafero, his PI. Tafero was once a LAPD cop who, like Bosch, worked out of Hollywood. He retired after twenty years, went private and took out a bail bonds licence.     There's some history between the two lead characters. Although this is the first time they've shared the spotlight in print, this isn't the first time they've met. McCaleb was setting up the Bureau's BSS and VICAP outpost in LA when Bosch - then still at RHD - asked for his help with a profile for a killer. The victim had been a Mexican girl, in her early teens. Never identified, Bosch christened her 'Cielo Azul' and McCaleb named his daughter 'Cielo' in her honour. Connelly subsequently wrote a short story about the case, which has now been included in the collection \\"Dangerous Women\\".    I'm not entirely sure dividing the action between Bosch and McCaleb really helped the story - I would certainly have liked Bosch to feature more, given that I think he's a stronger character than McCaleb. Connelly has nearly overdone it with the number of cameos - Jack McEvoy and Brass Doran, from \\"The Poet\\", make brief appearances, while there's a nod to Thelma Kibble from \\"Void Moon\\". Meanwhile, both Bosch and McCaleb bring a number of their own 'support characters' it was nice to see Teresa Corazn again. Harry's investigation into Gunn was never covered in any book, though it did form the backdrop to \\"The Last Coyote\\". (Harry's Lieutenant at the time, Harvey \\"98\\" Pounds, had interfered with Gunn's questioning - as a result, Harry lost his temper and pushed his bureaucratic boss head first through an office window. \\"The Last Coyote\\" deals with his subsequent suspension). As a result, this is far from the best place to start if you haven't read anything by him before - I'd recommend reading at least \\"Blood Work\\" and \\"The Last Coyote\\" first. If you are a fan of Connelly's, though, you should enjoy this - the more you've read by him, the more you'll get out of it.	2005-04-12
US	48954632	R2XVX94JZ1KB7J	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Freedom is Slavery	George Orwell, whose real name is Eric Blair, was born in India in 1903. He served in Burma with the India Imperial Police and spent the end of the 1920s living in Paris. He later fought for the Republicans against Franco in the Spanish Civil War. He became well-known with the publication of \\"Animal Farm\\", a satire on Soviet Russia. He died in January 1950, shortly after the publication of \\"1984\\".<br /><br />\\"1984\\" is set in London, the chief city of Airstrip One and the third most populous of Oceania's states. Oceania is one of the world's three great powers - the others being Eurasia and Eastasia - and is constantly at war with at least on of its neighbors. Although the roles of enemy and ally change regularly, the change is never officially acknowledged : if Oceania is at war with Eastasia, then it has always been at war with Eastasia. The Party rules Oceania through four ministries. These include the Ministry of Peace (which deals with the war effort), the Ministry of Plenty (responsible for economic affairs and shortages) and the Ministry of Truth (responsible for all forms of propaganda - including news, education and entertainment). However, the Ministry of Love - which deals with law and order - is the really scary one. Heavily fortified and guarded, it is home to the dreaded Thought Police and is impossible to enter except on official business. Oceania's official language is Newspeak, an updated version of English with a vastly reduced vocabulary. Without the words to express an 'undesirable' thought, 'thoughtcrime' will become literally impossible. It is expected to have totally replaced Oldspeak, or standard English, by 2050.<br /><br />The Party is led by Big Brother, and all good things come as a direct result of his leadership. His image stares down from every wall, and he is widely viewed as a savior and protector. His nemesis is Emmanuel Goldstein, who was once a leading member of the Party before betraying the cause. He is now the 'Enemy of the People', and commander of the Brotherhood : a mysterious army dedicated to he overthrow of the Party and State.<br /><br />The book's hero is Winston Smith - he is reasonably sure he is thirty-nine, and that the year is 1984 (though that is not entirely certain). A member of the Party, he works in the Records Department at the Ministry of Truth and lives at Victory Mansions. Although his position brings certain perks - certainly in comparison to the proles - life is bleak. Many items - including food, razor blades and boots - are in short supply, and his home - despite its name - is an old, rundown block of flats. In every room throughout Airstrip One, telescreens are installed. Although similar to televisions, they can only be dimmed but never switched off. They not only receive programmes, but also transmit to the Ministry of Truth - meaning the Thought Police can monitor whoever they like whenever they like. Winston is officially married, although he has been separated for nearly eleven years. Marriages between Party members have to be approved by a committee, though any attraction is apparently frowned upon. Sex is an act widely viewed with disgust, while sexual immorality is known as 'sexcrime'. Winston's life changes when he starts keeping a diary. This is not technically illegal, though - when caught - he knows it could be punishable by death.<br /><br />Generally, I don't like making blanket recommendations, but \\"1984\\" is one of the few exceptions. While it is a grim book, everybody should read at some point. Some see it, like \\"Animal Farm\\", as a satire on the USSR - Big Brother does seem to look like Stalin, there are constant references to 'Three Year Plans' and people call each other 'Comrade'. However, it applies to any form of totalitarian government - or indeed, any government that has too much control over an individuals life.	2005-03-24
US	48954632	R1YXSA1BYPAHES	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Els Quatre Gats : Favored by Picasso and Sempere	Carlos Ruiz Zaf&oacute;n was born in Barcelona in 1964. He won the Premio Edebe for his first novel, \\"El Pr&iacute;ncipe de la Niebla\\" (Prince of the Mists). \\"The Shadow of the Wind\\" is his first novel for adults, was first published in Spain in 2001 and is set in Zaf&oacute;n's home city. The book opens in the summer of 1945, only six years after the Spanish Civil War ended, and focuses on Daniel Sempere. Daniel's father runs a bookshop specializing in rare and second-hand editions, while the pair live in a bookshop directly above it. Daniels's mother died from cholera shortly after the Civil War, and was buried on his fourth birthday.<br /><br />Approaching his eleventh birthday, Daniel's father takes him to the Cemetery of Forgotten Books : a mysterious and secret place, it is a sanctuary for the protection of obscure and endangered books. When a bookshop or library closes, those titles in danger of disappearing are brought to the Cemetery by its guardians. No-one knows how long the Cemetery has been there, or who founded it. However, all those on their first visit there are allowed to 'adopt' a book - to protect it and ensure it stays alive. Daniel stumbles across and chooses a book called \\"The Shadow of the Wind\\" by Julian Car&aacute;x - an author and a title unfamiliar to him. It captures his imagination so completely that he is determined to read more of Car&aacute;x's book. Unfortunately, not only are his books in short supply, but also Car&aacute;x himself proves to be something of a mystery.<br /><br />Daniel's father can only supply a few answers about the author and the book, but Gustavo Barcelo - one of his father's friends - tells Daniel he has the only copy of \\"The Shadow of the Wind\\" in existence. Daniel learns more about Car&aacute;x from Clara, Gustavo's blind and orphaned niece. Clara's father, a lawyer close to the Catalan President, had been killed by Javier Fumero at Montjuc Castle during the war. Clara's mother has subsequently died from a broken heart. Fumero remains a feared man throughout the city, though was little more than a hired assassin during the war. He fought for every side at some point, siding with the winners after the fall of Barcelona and joining the police force. Clara, in her early twenties when she first meets Daniel, was introduced to Car&aacute;x by her tutor, Monsieur Rocquefort. Like Daniel, he only owned one of Car&aacute;x's novels and was desperate to read more of them. He scoured the bookshops of Paris, where Car&aacute;x was based at the time - but found nothing further. In 1936, rumors reached him that Car&aacute;x had died - some said in a duel in Paris, others that he died in dire straits in Barcelona. Either way, it appears he had been buried in an unmarked grave.<br /><br />While Daniel is able to pick up scraps of information about the author from a variety of sources, his most loyal ally in Ferm&iacute;n Romero de Torres. Ferm&iacute;n is living on the streets when Daniel first meets him, though he finally comes to work at the bookshop. He is a hugely entertaining free-thinker, who has a fantastic turn of phrase, a strong distaste for both Franco and Inspector Fumero and an eye for the ladies. Unfortunately, the pair realise there are others also interested in Car&aacute;x. Barcelo had earlier told Daniel of a man seeking to burn all copies of Car&aacute;x's books. He later learns that this man is travelling by the name 'La&iacute;n Coubert' - an alias used in Car&aacute;x's \\"Shadow of the Wind\\" by the Devil himself. He also realises he is being followed by the very same individual...<br /><br />I didn't know a great deal about this book when I started reading it, but I was hooked within ten pages. Zaf&oacute;n hasn't so much written a novel as crafted one. Rather than following a tired formula and filling his books with clich&eacute;s, his ability to actually tell a story is clear. It's been a while since I enjoyed a book so much, and I'm looking forward to readingmore of Zaf&oacute;n's work.	2005-03-18
US	48954632	R3MFX35APYVBTM	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beware the Following Sea	\\"Blood Work\\" is Michael Connelly's seventh book, and only his second not to feature Harry Bosch. Instead, it centers on Terry McCaleb, a retired FBI agent in his mid-40s. Born in LA, McCaleb grew up on Catalina Island and took a disability retirement after a heart attack. In fact, he'd received a heart transplant about two months before the book opens - a very rare blood type meant he'd had to wait about two years from his transplant. He lives on a twenty-year old boat, \\"The Following Sea\\", which he inherited from his father and is moored in the San Pedro marina. However, he does plan to eventually move back to Catalina. McCaleb worked on some very high profile cases as an agent - including, for example, \\"The Code Killer\\" and \\"The Sunset Strip Strangler\\" cases. Connelly's only previous book not to feature Bosch was \\"The Poet\\" - while McCaleb did not feature in that book, it seems he did contribute to that investigation. <br /> <br />The events of \\"Blood Work\\" are kick-started by Keisha Russell, a journalist from the Times, who has also played a minor role in some of the Bosch novels. Having helped McCaleb at times - holding details back from (or adding them to) an article at his request - McCaleb felt he owed her and agreed to a 'Where Are They Now' column. That column had led to a series of people coming to his boat and asking for his help finding the killers of their relatives. Unable to help them, under doctor's orders, he has instead referred them to some PIs he knows. However, McCaleb doesn't find Graciela Rivers so easy to turn away when she visits. Graciela's sister, Gloria, was murdered during robbery at a grocery store; Gloria proved to be the donor for Terry's new heart. <br /> <br />Despite his doctor's misgivings, McCaleb decides to look into the case. The fact that he's now a private citizen, and no longer an Agent, only makes it more difficult. Arrango and Walters, from the LAPD's West Valley Division, are the detectives officially investigating Gloria's murder. They provide him with a little information, and a viewing of the footage from the store's security camera, but confirm the case has essentially stalled. Knowing that's as far as he'll be allowed to go, but believing the killer has struck before, McCaleb calls in another favor from Keisha Russell. Thanks to Russell's research, McCaleb links Gloria's murder to another being investigated by a Sheriff's detective called Jaye Winston. Having worked with Winston in the past, McCaleb feels sure she'll help him now. <br /> <br />\\"Blood Work\\" was the first of Connelly's books to be adapted for the big screen, and starred Clint Eastwood as McCaleb. It also won the Grand Prix, the highest award for a mystery novel in France, as well as the Anthony Award and Macavity Award. Featuring a 'new' character, there's no need to have read any of Connelly's previous books - so if you've never read any of Connelly's books before, this is a good place to start. (Other possible starting points would be \\"The Black Echo\\", \\"The Poet\\" and \\"Void Moon\\"). McCaleb isn't as rough around the edges as Bosch, but is still a likeable character. Definitely worth reading. <br />	2005-03-09
US	48954632	R3M19EPA9BXI18	0425190080	193057565	You Cannot Be Serious	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Good Book - Yes, I'm Serious !	Born in Germany in 1959, John McEnroe must surely be considered one of the great tennis players. He turned professional in 1979, though reached the semi-finals of Wimbledon as an amateur in 1978 - a record, at the time, for an amateur in the open era. He went on to win 77 singles and 77 doubles titles, including 7 Singles and 10 Doubles at the Grand Slams. He most famous match, strangely enough, may well be one he lost : the 1980 five-set Wimbledon final against Bjorn Borg. He also took the Davis Cup very seriously, winning it as a player and captain. He retired as a professional in 1992, though has played on the seniors' tour and works as a television commentator.     He is, of course, just as famous for his temper, something that apparently caused The New York Times to label him \\"the worst advertisement for our system of values since Al Capone\\". Some of his more memorable lines came at Wimbledon. While he won that tournament for the first time in 1981 (beating Borg in the final), his second round match saw him label the umpire the \\"pits of the world\\" and \\"an incompetent fool\\". Naturally, he went on to utter the immortal words \\"you cannot be serious\\". Nowadays, however, when he plays on the senior's tour and in exhibitions, he feels he's expected to \\"yell at some people and break at least one racquet.\\"    As a kid, Wimbledon was practically required viewing during the summer months. At the time, McEnroe, Borg and Connors were the top dogs in the men's game - and the rivalries McEnroe had with both made for great matches. For me, the most interesting and enjoyable sections of the book dealt with McEnroe's thoughts on both men. His admiration for Borg is clear, and the pair seem to have forged a strong friendship over the years - something I thought a little strange, given the differences between them on-court. However, his rivalry with Connors seems to have been a little more keenly felt - but there were parts I'm sure I picked up a touch of genuine admiration.There are some things, of course, that may have been difficult for him to write about - his marriage to and divorce from Tatum O'Neal. He also seems somewhat embarrassed about his bad behavior both on and off the court. To his credit, he doesn't try to brush over things or make excuses. (Admittedly, there are times he possibly tries to give himself a little too much credit). All in all, though, it is a very readable and thoroughly enjoyable book.	2005-03-08
US	48954632	R14U7TB1M595UO	0802138616	691132252	Quite Ugly One Morning	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Genuinely Enjoyable	Christopher Brookmyre was born in Glasgow in 1968 and has worked in Edinburgh, London and LA as a journalist. \\"Quite Ugly One Morning\\", his debut novel, was first published in the UK in 1996 and won the inaugural \\"First Blood\\" award for the best first crime novel of the year.     Jack Parlabane, the book's hero, is a journalist whose career started in Glasgow. He was eventually headhunted by one of London's broadsheets, before realising his brand of investigative journalism was steering him towards serious trouble. He quickly fled to LA - where he made exactly the same mistake again (only, this time with the rather higher chance of getting killed). As the book opens, he's only been back in Edinburgh for around thirty-six hours. (While Brookmyre's travels have been very similar to Parlabane's, I have no idea how much trouble the author's career as a journalist brought him. However, I am assured that all characters in this book are fictitious and any resemblance to real persons is purely coincidental). Unfortunately, unknown to Parlabane, one of his new neighbours - later identified as Jeremy Ponsonby - has been murdered. Ponsonby was a doctor, and a member of a well-known Edinburgh medical family. The book opens with the arrival of Inspector McGregor at the exceptionally messy and slightly bizarre murder scene. Parlabane is later caught at he scene with his trousers down (quite literally) by DC Jenny Dalziel, one of McGregor's team. Gradually, after a few more chance meetings with Dalziel and Sarah - the corpse's ex-wife - Parlabane starts looking into the murder.     While there are some fairly disgusting scenes - particularly the opening - Brookmyre has written a fast-moving, funny and thoroughly enjoyable book. I was reminded, in parts, of Ian Banks and Kinky Friedman (although there aren't quite as many one-liners as your average Kinky book). There are a few Scottish words and phrases used here and there - \\"jobbie\\" and \\"keech\\", for example, are used in the firstchapter. However, with the way Brookmyre has written, there shouldn't be any difficulty in working out exactly what he's referring to. Highly recommended !	2005-02-25
US	48954632	RVKRDSQ9LPQLA	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Four Red Cars	First published in 2003, \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time\\" won the Whitbread Novel of the Year Award, the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize and was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize. Mark Haddon, its author, has also worked as an illustrator, a cartoonist and a screenwriter. Other awards he has won include two BAFTAs.  <br /> <br />The hero, and narrator, is Christopher Boone - a fifteen year-old with Asperger's Syndrome. He is very good at Mathematics, and plans to take an A-Level in the subject at the end of the school year. He routinely tells the truth (lying confuses him too much), likes animals, doesn't like being touched and hates the colours brown and yellow. Although he hates France, he lists this as one of his 'Behavioural Problems'. His memory is like a piece of video-tape : it can run forwards and backwards and comes with a smell-track, as well as a soundtrack. As an only child, he lives with his father in Swindon - his mother, it would seem, died from a heart attack some two years previously.  <br /> <br />The book opens with Christopher finding the corpse of Wellington, the poodle that belonged to his neighbour, Mrs Shears. Wellington had obviously been murdered - he had a garden fork sticking out of his side. Generally, Christopher likes books about Science and Mathematics; however, he also likes murder-mystery books. (\\"The Hound of the Baskervilles\\" is a particular favourite; Sherlock Holmes seems to be something of a hero for Christopher). Having decided to find out who murdered Wellington, \\"The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time\\" is Christopher's murder-mystery novel. However, his investigation brings some things to light he never expected to discover.  <br /> <br />In keeping with Christopher's personality, the book has been written in a very matter-of-fact manner. He remembers being told of his mother's death : he wondered what sort of heart attack it was, and remembered that Mrs Shears made him spaghetti and tomatosauce. As he likes prime numbers, he decides to make the chapter numbers primes (2, 3, 5, 7, 11..) rather than cardinals (1, 2, 3, 4, 5..). A little unusual, but a very easily read and very enjoyable book. <br />	2005-02-02
US	48954632	RFLXPEQ3UU19Z	0446607274	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stairway to Heaven ?	\\"Angels Flight\\" is Michael Connelly's eighth book, his sixth to feature Harry Bosch and was first published in 1999. Much of Bosch's background has been covered in the earlier instalments. Orphaned at twelve, he later served in Viet-Nam before returning to Los Angeles and joining the police force. He currently works the Hollywood Division's homicide table, though he was once a member of the LAPD's elite Robbery-Homicide Division (RHD). He's seen by some as a maverick, though he's not quite the 'loner' he once was. Following a Vegas wedding he's been married to Eleanor Wish for about two years, while he's settled into his role as Squad One's Team Leader and works well with his partners. In fact, he seems determined to become a new Harry Bosch : he's even trying to quit smoking.    The book opens with Bosch and his team being summoned by Deputy Chief Irving to investigate a double homicide Angel's Flight. Bosch is confused, as the crime scene is beyond Hollywood Division's boundaries, and inside Central Division's. Irving, however, has his reasons - firstly, Central Division's homicide detectives are all on training. Secondly, the case itself is somewhat sensitive. Although two people have been murdered - Catalina Perez and Howard Elias - the department is specifically worried about the implications of Elias' murder. Elias was a lawyer who specialized in police and civil-rights cases, and his murder has come two days before what might have been his biggest case against the LAPD. Michael Harris, his client, is suing fifteen RHD detectives for ten million dollars. Questioned regarding the kidnapping of a twelve-year old girl, he claimed the detectives had tortured him over a three day period. The girl, a member of a well-known and rich family, was later found dead near his apartment, while his fingerprints were found on a book in her bedroom. Nevertheless, he was found not guilty in the criminal trial.     By rights, RHD should've been investigating Elias' murder - butgiven Elias was planning to sue RHD, their involvement would've been viewed as a possible conflict of interest. Irving has therefore selected Bosch's team to deal with the investigation. The case itself also worries Harry : he knows that, given the nature of Elias' cases, many of the most obvious suspects will be cops. These may include his former colleagues at RHD - including his former partner, Frankie Sheehan.     Part of the help Irving has assigned to Bosch's team is a group of IAD detectives - a group that includes John 'Sustain' Chastain,  IAD (Internal Affairs) is the section that investigates other police officers - that department, and all its employees, are detested by every other cop in the city. Harry, himself, has been investigated by IAD a number of times - twice by Chastain, who seems determined to drive Harry out of the force. Harry suspects that the IAD grouping has been assigned to hinder, rather than help, the investigation. However, this isn't Harry's only problem. Given the high-profile victim, the newly-appointed Inspector-General, Carla Entrenkin, has been notified of the murder. This position allows her to oversee any investigation she chooses - and Harry suspects she has a 'personal' interest in this case. Furthermore, Harry believes that Elias had a source feeding him information from the Parker Center.     As with Connelly's previous books, I found this to be an excellent novel. It's a difficult case for Harry, though - despite some 'political' interfering from Irving, he's determined to solve it to the very best of his abilities. Those who have read the previous instalments will know Harry's past, and several old favorites return. Although having read the previous book in the series (\\"Trunk Music\\") may be helpful, the 'newcomer' won't feel left out. \\"Angel's Flight\\" covers enough of Bosch's past to tell the story without any gaps. Highly recommended.	2005-02-02
US	48954632	RSO2G35NHTS31	4770029055	692528243	Out	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Sometimes Gruesome, Mostly Gripping	\\"Out\\" was first published in 1997 and won Japan's top mystery award. It is Natsuo Kirino's first novel to be translated into English. Set in Tokyo, it's centred around four women who work the nightshift in a boxed-lunch factory. The pay is good for a part-time job, but the work is far from rewarding, the hours aren't sociable and the chances for progression are limited. Unfortunately, their home lives aren't much better. <br /> <br />Yoshie is the most likeable of the four friends. She is nicknamed the Skipper since she is so hard-working and effectively runs the line the women work on. Yoshie's husband died from cirrhosis, leaving her to look after her family and mother-in-law - who'd suffered a stroke more than six years previously. She's finding it difficult to make ends meet : the insurance from her husband's death, and her own savings, have been spent - largely on looking after her mother-in-law. She is desperate for her daughter to receive a good education. Meanwhile, her landlord is talking about tearing down her dilapidated house, hoping to build a modern apartment block. Yoshie knows this will involve higher rents.  <br /> <br />Kuniko is a different matter entirely. Vain and self-absorbed, she is a thoroughly dislikeable character. She lies about her age, drives an expensive, imported car and spends beyond her means on clothes. She had claimed to be married to her live-in boyfriend : sensibly, he blows town early in the book and carefully covers his tracks. Due to the money she spends on her image, she owes a fortune to a loan-shark.  <br /> <br />At 34, Yayoi is the youngest and prettiest of the four friends. Kenji, her husband, had once pursued her relentlessly. However, once married, things changed dramatically. Kenji started spending more time away from home, drinking and gambling. Recently, he had been visiting two clubs in Kabuki-cho. In one, he had been spending a great deal of time (and money) in the company of a beautiful hostess. In the other, he'd lost a fortune at the baccarat tables - including the couple's savings. Eventually, after an argument, Yayoi's patience snaps and she strangles him. She then phones Masako : unsure what to do, she knows her colleague will help her.  <br /> <br />Although the focus of the book switches from one character to another, Masako is essentially the book's central character. In her early forties, she is married and has one son. Down-to-earth, and more experienced than her colleagues, her three friends seem to rely on her in particular. The book opens and closes with her and, after Yayoi's confession, it is Masako who makes many of the key decisions. <br /> <br />Although Yayoi knew Kenji had blown a fortune, and suspected he'd been in a fight the night she killed him, she didn't know the full story. The clubs he'd been visiting were owned by Mitsuyoshi Satake who, in recent weeks, had come to view Kenji as a nuisance. Kenji was stalking his top hostess and was behind in his bill at 'Playground' (his illegal, after-hours, baccarat club). Eventually, Satake 'deals' with him, using a method that involved Kenji bouncing down a flight of stairs. Unfortunately for Satake, Yayoi's subsequent actions see him under investigation. With a past he'd rather hide, and in illegal club to protect, this is something he is far form pleased about.  <br /> <br />A little grim in places, a bit depressing in others - although I found it a touch implausible at times. In particular, I couldn't understand Masako. I found it hard to believe, for example, she could be so detached with what was not only happening around her, but also to her. Nevertheless, \\"Out\\" is a very-well-written book and is easily read. Definitely recommended.	2005-01-20
US	48954632	R3CNS0A6JBVZXO	0747570140	438174925	Red Mist: Roy Keane and the World Cup Civil War - A Fan's Story	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fail to Prepare - Prepare to Fail	In 2002, soccer's World Cup Finals were played in Japan and South Korea. Following a two-year qualifying campaign, thirty-two countries were involved. While countries such as Brazil and France were among the pre-tournament favorites, the Republic of Ireland had qualified for only the third time in their history.     Ireland's team captain leading up to the finals was Roy Keane, considered by many to be the country's greatest ever player. While soccer is a team sport, Ireland simply wouldn't have been capable of qualifying for the Finals without him. Keane, like all the other members of Ireland's squad, has spent the bulk of his playing career in England - where he has won the Premiership and the F.A. Cup (English soccer's top competitions) several times. He also has a winners medal from the Champions League (Europe's top competition) in his collection. A very focused and determined player, he believes it is necessary to train, eat and rest properly to perform at the highest level.    The events that led up to the World Cup Finals that year, however, must have left him feeling disillusioned with the international set-up. The FAI (the organisation in charge of Irish soccer) had decided that Saipan would be used as the pre-tournament base. After all, it had a very nice hotel. Unfortunately, the team arrived to discover the FAI had brought no soccer balls or training gear - which made training a little difficult. Furthermore, Keane, as captain, wasn't too impressed with the attitude of some of his team-mates; there have been suggestions of late nights and heavy drinking (and I don't mean isotonic fluids). Furthermore, when the training equipment finally arrived, he was unhappy that some were allowed to skip the scheduled training sessions. Keane's anger at what was happening around him led to a huge argument with the squad's coach, Mick McCarthy. It seems that McCarthy found Keane's attitude unacceptable and reservations without foundation; as a result, he dismissed Keane from the squad and sent him home.     The story was huge, and Ireland was divided. A large part of the Irish population bizarrely agreed with McCarthy. Vilified by many in the media, Keane was labelled a traitor. Some made claims about what he'd said to McCarthy. He denied making the most controversial remark, a denial supported by Niall Quinn - another player who'd actually backed McCarthy's position. Keane, however, did have his supporters - among them, the population of Cork City and Conor O'Callaghan. In this book, O'Callaghan looks back to the events of Saipan, the reaction of the Irish people and its effect on him. He was involved in any number of arguments defending Keane - his barber was one of his favorite sparring partners - while the situation left his seven-year-old son thoroughly confused. Like Steve Staunton - who was appointed Ireland's captain after Keane was dismissed - O'Callaghan was brought up in Dundalk. Staunton was another player who'd backed McCarthy at a press conference. One of the funniest incidents takes place at a street party after his neighbour returned home - O'Callaghan made sure his neighbour knew not everyone was happy with his role.    I enjoyed this book quite a bit, but I'd imagine it has a limited appeal. There'd need to be some interest in soccer, and it will mean more if the reader followed the 2002 World Cup. (Having said that, it probably won't be enjoyed so much by those who supported Mick McCarthy). If you're interested, other books that cover the events of Saipan include \\"Laptop Dancing and the Nanny Goat Mambo: A Sports Writer's Year\\" by Tom Humphries and the autobiographies of Niall Quinn and Roy Keane.	2005-01-15
US	48954632	R2ZEWZTQYS73WR	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Harry Hits Vegas	\\"Trunk Music\\" was Michael Connelly's sixth book, his fifth to feature Harry Bosch and was first published in 1997. Although Harry remains a cigarette-smoking, beer-swilling, coffee-drinking jazz-fan, his life has seen a few changes since \\"The Last Coyote\\". It's been about eight months since Harry returned to the Hollywood Division from involuntary stress leave, but roughly eighteen since he 'officially' investigated a homicide case. Bosch has spent the previous eight months working the burglary table - officially, this was to ease him back into detective work. In reality, however, it was a slap on the wrist for his 'unofficial' investigation outlined in \\"The Last Coyote\\" - while he was his involuntary stress leave. He's also spending much of his free time redecorating his house - condemned after an earthquake, it's been demolished and now rebuilt. <br /> <br />The Hollywood Division is now under the command of a new Lieutenant, Grace Billets. In turn, she has decided that all homicides should be investigated by three detectives. Harry is the team leader of Squad One : his partners are Jerry Edgar, who he'd worked with previously, and Kizmin Rider. Rider transferred in around the same time as Billets, both from the LAPD's Pacific Division. \\"Trunk Music\\" covers Harry's first case back at the homicide table under these new arrangements. A body has been found in the trunk of a Rolls Royce along Hollywood Drive, overlooking the Hollywood Bowl. Certain factors seem to indicate the victim - Tony Aliso - was killed by the Mob. As such, the case should be turned over to the Organized Crime Intelligence Unit. However, when notified, OCID take a pass - although Harry's happy he hasn't lost his case, he still finds that decision a little strange. To complicate matters, it later appears the officer Harry contacted - a man called Carbone - is taking a 'casual' interest in the case. Harry believes there's more to this than meets the eye, but knows he'll have to be careful. While OCID are supposed to concentrate on organized crime, it is widely believed they hold thick files on many - including the Police Chief and the Mayor. In other words, they're not afraid to play dirty to get what they want.  <br /> <br />Aliso, although a small-time player in the movie business, still made a healthy living from it. Married to one of his former actresses, he took regular trips to Vegas. The length of these trips would vary, depending on his luck at the poker tables - however, his wife suspected he did more in Vegas than just gamble. He was returning from one of these trips when he was apparently intercepted and killed. Realising the killer may have followed Aliso from Vegas, Harry takes a trip there to try and retrace his steps. The trip, however, throws up one or two surprises - and it wouldn't be a Harry Bosch novel if he didn't find himself in serious trouble.  <br /> <br />Connelly has written another excellent book, and has also introduced two very likeable characters - Billets and Rider. Billets, unlike Harry's previous boss, seems to care about clearing cases - rather than fiddling statistics to make the department look good. Rider, meanwhile, is considered an excellent detective and is tipped to go right to the top. It would probably be a slight advantage to have read at least a couple of the previous Bosch novels- for example, there are certain slight references to some of the events from \\"The Black Echo\\" and \\"The Last Coyote\\". While it's not entirely necessary, I would recommend reading them first - they are both excellent books, and knowing the \\"full story\\" will add to the enjoyment of this instalment. <br />	2005-01-05
US	48954632	R1UM8KOMS3T06M	0786818603	990781467	The Golem's Eye (The Bartimaeus Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Bartimaeus II : The Commoners Strikes Back !	The second part of The Bartimaeus Trilogy, \\"The Golem's Eye\\" continues the story began in \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\". Like the first instalment, the majority of the action is set in a mostly recognisable London - admittedly, with a few noticeable changes. The Empire (which still exists), having already defeated the Czech Republic, is now considering war with the North American colonies. All the same, some Czech spies are still operating in England, and the Czech immigrant community is viewed with suspicion. Magicians have been the ruling class since Gladstone's time, holding all positions of power. Rather than wands and potions, these magicians derive their power from their ability to summon and control a variety of demons - for example, afrits, djinn and imps. Meanwhile the non-magical human masses are referred to as commoners - some of whom have formed a very troublesome resistance.    Nearly three years have passed since the events of \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\". Nathaniel (more widely known as John Mandrake) is now apprenticed to Jessica Whitwell, the Security Minister, and works at the Department of Internal Affairs. His boss, Julius Tallow, is a typical magician : cruel, arrogant and self-serving, he would happily throw another (such as Nathaniel) to the wolves if it meant saving his own hide. (These same qualities, with extra ambition, have also become more pronounced in Nathaniel). However, since Tallow has more problems than he's aware of, Nathaniel's main rivals are the Chief of Police (Henry Duvall) and his assistant (Jane Farrar).     Nathaniel has been put in charge of pursuing the Resistance, a group of commoners who oppose the Magicians' Rule. Generally, their attacks have been limited to small-scale thefts, nothing that would've left Nathaniel under any great pressure. However, the night before Founder's Day (Gladstone's Birthday), a number of shops are attacked and practically destroyed. Policemen were killed, while a number of demons and search spheres used in investigate are missing. However, there are no indications the attack involved the use of magic - although Nathaniel is far from convinced, the Resistance are the most obvious culprits. Under no illusion that results are required, he realises he has to summon Bartimaeus again.    Bartimaeus (the fourth-level djinn summoned by Nathaniel) is caustic, irreverent and hopelessly vain - he boasts about the walls he built at Uruk and Karnak, but never mentions his work at Jericho. While he wasn't too fond of Nathaniel when they first met, he is even less impressed with his master in this book : in fact, he is determined to let Nathaniel down whenever and wherever possible. The last time the duo worked together, they briefly stumbled across three of the Resistance's members - a small group, led by a girl called Kitty. In this instalment, they share the spotlight with Kitty - a commoner with a limited natural resistance to magic.    While Kitty's introduction reduces the amount of time Bartimaeus features, it gives some indication of how the commoners are treated and why there is a Resistance. It means fewer wisecracks (Bartimaeus is the book's funniest character), but it adds to the story and action significantly. The focus from one chapter to another switches between the characters, though the story never stalls. Stroud writes Nathaniel's and Kitty's stories (\\"Kitty and her parents watched him in silence\\"), while the djinni tells his own (\\"I could tell it was Prague as soon as I materialised\\"). \\"The Golem's Eye\\" is very easily read and very enjoyable - but I would recommend starting with \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\".	2005-01-05
US	48954632	R1HIE8FCEJ68L0	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	4	14	19	N	N	The First Shall Fear Me, The Second Shall Long To Behold Me	Although she is the author of several short stories, \\"Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell\\" is Susanna Clarke's debut novel. Set in England in the early nineteenth century, it was longlisted for the 2004 Man Booker Prize and shortlisted for the Whitbread First Novel Award.  <br /> <br />The book opens in late 1806 and charts the efforts of two men to re-establish magic in England. Of the title characters, Gilbert Norrell is introduced first. A 'gentleman', Norrell has seemingly devoted his life to the study of magic. He has an extensive library at his home (Hurtfew Abbey in Yorkshire) - so extensive, in fact, that very few others possess any books of value on the subject. While there are many 'theoretical' magicians throughout England - the Learned Society of York Magicians, for example - Norrell is the country's first practising magician in over two centuries. He deludes himself that he wants nothing more that the restoration of English Magic - in reality, he is a small, petty and vain man who really wants to be England's only magician. The early pages cover his meeting with two members of the York Society - Mr. Segundus and Mr. Honeyfoot - and his efforts to close the Society down. This final nail in their coffin comes when he casts a spell that makes the statues in York Cathedral 'come alive' they move and speak, telling all they have seen over the years. Shortly afterwards, following the advice of his servant Childermass, Norrell moves to London - here, he hopes to win greater influence. However, in convincing the government and military of his worth, he resorts to magic he would rather not use : he seeks help from a gentleman with thistle-down hair. Although the resulting magic brings him the fame and influence he sought, it ultimately causes a great deal of trouble for its beneficiary, Lady Pole, and her butler, Stephen Black. <br /> <br />Jonathan Strange isn't introduced until much later into the book. Another gentleman, he is a good deal more likeable than Norrell - though some think him arrogant. Until a chance meeting with a character called Vinculus, Strange had tried his hand at several professions - but settled on none. Vinculus is one of the book's minor, but influential, characters. He had been one of London's 'street magicians' (mostly con artists), and was driven out of the city by Norrell. However, it seems that, one way or another, he has access to a prophecy relating to Norrell and Strange. Upon hearing it, Strange settles on magic and starts studying as best he can - in fact, he seems to have a natural talent for it. In time, he becomes totally immersed in his new career - perhaps sacrificing some things he shouldn't have along the way. However, at no point does he display the spiteful, self-centred streak Norrell regularly does. <br /> <br />It is only a matter of time before the two magicians meet and, for a while, they appear to work well together. Before long, however, their relationship turns to rivalry. They key factor in the change is their differing opinion of John Uskridge, The Raven King. The greatest magician England had ever known, Uskridge was born in England but raised in Faerie. He returned in the 12th Century to establish his kingdom in Northern England. Norrell detests Uskridge - he considers the Raven King's magic to be of the darkest variety and should be removed from English Magic. Strange, on the other hand, feels this is impossible. In his opinion, Uskridge established the tradition of English Magic and one cannot exist without the other.  <br /> <br />While I did enjoy it, I wouldn't recommend this book unconditionally. Anyone expecting a grown-up version of Harry Potter will be disappointed - in my opinion, it's more like a grown-up version of \\"The Magician's Nephew\\". It is very long (around 800 pages) and gets off to a slow start. Clarke is a big fan of Jane Austen, and seems to have modelled her writing for this book on Austen's. For example, some of the spellings are 'old-fashioned'- 'chuse' instead of choose. This may put some off - I know I'd have hated it as a teenager. It'll be hard work, but it's worth it in the end ! <br />	2004-12-06
US	48954632	RY9BQQ2SL68ZS	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Bosch's Mission Gets Personal !	\\"The Last Coyote\\" is Michael Connelly's fourth book, was first published in 1995 and features Harry Bosch as its central character. Something of Bosch's background has been covered in the previous three books. Bosch's mother was a prostitute who was murdered when he was twelve - he spent his teenage years in and out of youth halls. He enlisted in the army and served in Viet-Nam, before returning home and joining the police force. Once a member of the LAPD's elite Robbery-Homicide Division, Bosch currently works at the Hollywood Division's Homicide table. He's still a jazz-loving loner, seen by some as a maverick, with a taste for coffee, beer and cigarettes. There have been some changes in his life since the end of \\"The Concrete Blonde\\", though - his relationship with Sylvia Moore has finished and his house has been damaged in a recent earthquake. Despite the fact that it's been declared unfit for habitation, he's still unofficially living there.  <br /> <br />As \\"The Last Coyote\\" opens, Bosch is in trouble with the department again. After his boss, the bureaucratic Harvey \\"98\\" Pounds, interfered with the questioning of a suspect, Bosch lost his temper and pushed Pounds head-first through an office window. As a result, he's been placed on involuntary stress leave and has to attend regular sessions with Dr Carmen Hinojos, a psychiatrist at Behaviorial Sciences Division. These sessions contribute to Bosch deciding to investigate the one case that really matters to him : his mother's murder. Although he's working on the case unofficially and has lost his badge - albeit temporarily - he still manages to pull the original case file. Opened in October 1961, it was investigated at the time by two detectives called Eno and McKittrick. Leaving aside the apparent lack of effort to solve the case, a few things seem odd to Harry. The mentions an interview with Johnny Fox - his mother's pimp, and therefore an obvious suspect. However, the file doesn't contain an interview summary. A passing reference to Arno Conklin also catches his eye. At the time, Conklin would have been one of the city's top prosecutors and subsequently became the city's DA. Although exactly what role he had is unclear, his involvement in the case seems curious. The only other person apparently interviewed was Meredith Roman - a 'colleague' and old friend of his mother's, who'd also worked for Johnny Fox. The starting point, Harry feels, is to track these people down - though cut off from the LAPD's resources, he has to be a little more creative than usual in how he achieves this. He starts by using a new contact at the LA Times, Keisha Russell, to gather some stories on Conklin and Fox. Based on what he's read, Harry adds Conklin's campaign manager, Gordon Mittel, to his list of suspects. For other police-related information, Harry isn't above 'borrowing' Harvey Pound's identity to acquire it. However, just because a case is over thirty years old doesn't mean the investigation will be safe - least of all when important people are involved.  <br /> <br />As with Connelly's previous books, I found this to be a very enjoyable book - and it deals with the very case I had wondered about. It's probably better, though not strictly necessary, to read the books in order. The 'newcomer' won't feel left out, as this book covers enough of Bosch's past to tell the story without any gaps. However, reading the previous books and getting to know the 'full story' will add to the enjoyment of this instalment. The other books (\\"The Black Echo\\", \\"The Black Ice\\" and \\"The Concrete Blonde\\") are very enjoyable also - reading them will be anything other than a burden ! <br />	2004-10-26
US	48954632	RP9W5OD69EP70	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Socks, Slops and Scubbo	\\"Monstrous Regiment\\" is the twenty eighth novel in Terry Pratchett's hugely popular Discworld Series. A former journalist and press officer, he has gone on to win the Carnegie Medal for \\"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\\" and was awarded the OBE in 1998.  <br /> <br />Polly Perks lives in Munz, a town in Borogravia - a country with distinct similarities to Oceania, the setting for George Orwell's \\"1984\\". Pictures of the Duchess, Borogravia's own Big Brother, are everywhere, while the country has always been at war with one or other of its treacherous, devious and evil neighbours. The current enemy is Zlobenia, a country that is allied to the foul and lewd Ankh-Morpork. Indeed, that sinful city has even sent Vimes the Butcher and its soldiers to Zlobenia's aid. Religious people pray to the Duchess, rather than Nuggan (the local God). However, she hasn't been seen for thirty years, and many people believe that she is dead. (Many people also believe that Borogravia is losing the war, but nobody dares express either belief). Nuggan, meanwhile, seems to be a spiteful God - his list of abominations includes the color blue, shirts with six buttons, garlic, dwarfs and babies. Luckily for the size of his congregation, few observe the complete list of abominations (ahem) religiously, though some try to avoid looking at the sky.  <br /> <br />There are two notable buildings in Munz : the Girls Working School (where the bad girls are sent) and \\"The Duchess\\", the local tavern. Polly lives at \\"The Duchess\\", which is owned and run by her father. Her mother is dead, and her brother has been missing for quite some time, after having joined the army. Polly wants him home for a number of reasons : bluntly, he wasn't very good at looking after himself, and his absence is proving very difficult for their father. Furthermore, under Nuggantic law, Polly wouldn't be allowed to inherit \\"The Duchess\\" if anything happened to her father - which means the Perks family would lose their business. Polly decided to find and rescue her brother - the most obvious way to do this is to disguise herself as a boy and join the army. Having learnt to pick her nose and break wind, she cuts her hair, assumes the name 'Oliver' and joins the Tenth Foot Light Infantry (better known as the In-and-Outs and / or the Cheesemongers). Polly isn't the only new recruit - the others include a troll (called Carborundum), an Igor (who, like all Igors, is called Igor) and a vampire (called Maladict). Maladict, mercifully, is a Black Ribboner - he hasn't touched any human blood in over two years. Sergeant Jackrum, meanwhile, runs the regiment - a very famous soldier who is determined to look after his 'little lads'. Despite this, the Cheesemongers are sent to the front lines with shoddy equipment and no training. To make matters worse, it isn't long before someone sees through Polly's disguise. In a dark latrine, someone suggests she completes it with a strategically-placed pair of socks. This both worries and confuses Polly : someone has caught her out, but has also decided to help her... <br /> <br />Like everything else I've read by Pratchett, this is an excellent book. It's a little less silly than many of the previous instalments, but there are still plenty of laughs. It's easily read, and features plenty of likeable characters- particularly Jackrum. <br />	2004-10-25
US	48954632	RX4HGUM98302R	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Red Star at Night....	\\"The Light Fantastic\\" is the second book in Terry Pratchett's hugely popular Discworld Series. He has gone on to win the Carnegie Medal for \\"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\\" and was awarded the OBE in 1998.     \\"The Light Fantastic\\" follows on directly from \\"The Color of Magic\\", and focuses on the same two characters : Rincewind and Twoflower. Twoflower, from the Counterweight Continent, is the Discworld's first tourist and had employed Rincewind (a single-spell wizard, a native of Ankh-Morpork and a coward of some renown) as his guide. As \\"The Color of Magic\\" closed, both characters were close to Krull - Twoflower was boldly going where no tourist had gone before, while Rincewind was in a rather precarious position. (You could say \\"The Color of Magic\\" finished with a cliff-hanger). A standard wizard may have been able to save himself, but the only spell Rincewind knows came from the Octavo - the Creator's spell book, which had been carelessly left behind after the universe's completion. He doesn't know what it does, but it's so powerful that no other spell is brave enough to stay in his head. Fortunately, as the book begins, the spell realises that any harm to Rincewind may be fatal to itself - so, it contributes to Rincewind and Twoflower finding a way out of their current situations.     While \\"The Color of Magic\\" saw the two characters generally running away in random directions, there seems to be more of a point to their actions in this book. Rincewind has started suffering from homesickness and wants to return to Ankh-Morpork. His spell is also rather keen on this idea. This, Rincewind suspects, is connected to the strange new red star that has appeared in the sky - he fears it may also involve saving the world. The pair's journey back to Ankh-Morpork involves sacrificial virgins gingerbread cottages, trolls, druids and the Discworld's greatest hero - Cohen the Barbarian.     While I enjoyed this instalment more than the previous one, I'd still recommend reading \\"The Color of Magic\\" before \\"The Light Fantastic\\". This book continues the story began there, while the pair form a prelude to the seventeenth Discworld book, \\"Interesting Times\\". Pratchett's books are always very funny, while Rincewind and the Luggage are strong selling points. Definitely recommended !	2004-10-11
US	48954632	R2J70UB7QVL7EW	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spellbinding !	\\"The Color of Magic\\" is the first book in Terry Pratchett's hugely popular Discworld Series. He has gone on to win the Carnegie Medal for \\"The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents\\" and was awarded the OBE in 1998.  <br /> <br />The Discworld is, of course, flat and rests on the shoulders of four giant elephants. These are, in turn, carried through the cosmos by an even bigger turtle called Great A'Tuin. (The astrozoologists of the land of Krull, in their desire to better understand the universe, shortly hope to determine whether A'Tuin is male or female). The Discworld's Gods and Goddesses live in Dunmanifestin, on top of Cori Celesti. Their favourite pastimes include playing games with the lives of mortals, with Fate and the Lady featuring highly amongst the leading players. <br /> <br />One of the Lady's favourite 'pieces' is Rincewind - a native of the Discworld's oldest city, Ankh-Morpork, and a coward of some renown. He is also an ex-student of the Unseen University, a thoroughly hopeless wizard and the 'hero' of this book. The only spell he knows comes from the Octavo, and is so powerful that no other spell is brave enough to stay in his head. (The Octavo was the Creator's spellbook, and was carelessly left behind after the universe's completion). As the book opens, Rincewind's home city is in flames and he is fleeing in the company of Twoflower - the Discworld's first tourist. Twoflower, who has just introduced the concept of fire insurance to Ankh-Morpork, comes from the Counterweight Continent and has hired Rincewind as his guide. He also has a very loyal and frequently angry Luggage, which is made from sapient pearwood. Twoflower desperately wants to see the very things that Rincewind desperately wants to avoid - heroes (Hrun the barbarian, for example), dragons, fights and such like. As a result, Death has been snapping at Rincewind's heels since he first met Twoflower - that is, of course, the tall and under-fed gentleman who wears a hood, carries ascythe and TALKS LIKE THIS. To avoid meeting his fate, Rincewind is willing to travel to the very ends of the world... <br /> <br />As the first book in the Discworld series, this is probably the most obvious place to start. (It's certainly best to read it before \\"The Light Fantastic\\", the series' second instalment - while the pair form a prelude to \\"Interesting Times\\", the seventeenth Discworld book). Pratchett's books are always very funny, and Rincewind and the Luggage are two of my favourite characters. Definitely recommended !	2004-09-30
US	48954632	R3LODPBX3M7KBL	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bigwig Brilliantly Bashes Bugs Bunny	\\"Watership Down\\" was Richard Adams' debut novel and was first published in 1972. He originally told it to his children to help pass the time on long car journeys. It won the Guardian Award and the Carnegie Medal in 1973 and is set in Berkshire, where Adams was born in 1920. It is, of course, about rabbits, and was made into an animated film in 1978 - the soundtrack of which featured \\"Bright Eyes\\", by Art Garfunkel.  <br /> <br />The book opens at Sandleford Warren in May, with Hazel, a yearling, and his brother, Fiver, feeding at sunset. Although brothers, the pair are very different. Fiver was the runt of the litter and, as a result, is a lot smaller and much more nervous than his brother. He is, however, also something of a seer and - not long after the book opens - foresees the destruction of their home warren. The pair bring the prophecy to the Threarah, their chief rabbit - who, despite Fiver's success rate, refuses to accept it. The brothers decide to leave anyhow, and mean to bring whoever wishes to come along with them. A number of others join them, including two Owsla members : Silver, a nephew of the Threarah, and Bigwig. Although they have little idea of where they're going, Fiver knows what they should be looking for and have an excellent leader in Hazel. <br /> <br />This book has so much going for it, it's hard to write a review that will do it justice. Bigwig was a great character - an all-action rabbit (yes, really !!) whose name comes from the strange tuft of hair between his ears. However, he's not the only star. Other notable characters include General Woundwort, the leader of another warren and the baddest rabbit in England. (A vicious character, he'd leave your average bunny-boiler with badly burnt fingers and causes our heroes a great deal of trouble). Kehaar, a somewhat foul-mouthed (or is that foul-beaked ?) seagull, provides a certain amount of humour. He also helps the rabbits establish themselves after they arrive at their new home. The story is very engaging and is very well told. Adams explains the way rabbit society is structured, for example, including the role of a Chief Rabbit and his Owsla. As the story progresses, he includes a few words of the rabbits' own language and a few of their myths : these are very much centred on the great rabbit hero, El-ahrairah. An excellent book, and highly recommended. <br />	2004-09-23
US	48954632	R1PTHMICT7D2MP	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the Greatest	The youngest of four children, Harper Lee was born in 1926 in Alabama. She won the Pulitzer Prize with \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" - her only novel - which was first published in 1960.  <br /> <br />The story is set in 1930s Maycomb, Alabama, and is told by Scout Finch. In it, she looks back to her childhood, between the ages of six and nine years. A lively, intelligent and fiercely loyal child, she has one older brother called Jem, whose main interest is football. Despite an age difference of nearly four years, the siblings are clearly very close. Their mother died when Scout was two and they have been brought up by their father, Atticus - who proves to be a man you can't help admiring. Calpurnia, their housekeeper, seems to have been a great help to Atticus in raising the children. At times, Scout seems to have seen her as something of an adversary, though they become much closer as time goes on. Among their neighbours are the mysterious Radleys - Mr. Arthur, better known as Boo Radley, hasn't been seen outside for many years. He has become something of a legend that inspires a certain amount of fear among the children. Another neighbour, Miss Maudie, is an entirely different proposition - a very likeable character, she proves to be a very good friend to the children and one of Maycomb's more admirable residents.  <br /> <br />Another of the children's friends in Chet Baker Harris, a boy from Mississippi who is better known as Dill. He spends his summer with his Aunt Rachel, another of Scout's neighbours. Dill is the driving force behind one of the book's major themes : the quest to make Boo Radley come outside. The other theme, however, is a lot more serious - it deals with a court case where a black man has been charged with raping a white woman, on very flimsy evidence. The attitude of many of the townsfolk to the man in question, and to the black community in general, confuse the children greatly. The consequences of these attitudes have a direct impact on the Finch family, given that Atticus has been appointed the defence attorney.  <br /> <br />I tend to be very suspicious of a book if it's referred to as a 'classic' - too many of those I've read (or been forced to read) have been far too tedious. \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\", however, is what a classic should be - superbly written, with an excellent story and featuring characters you genuinely care about. Its screen adaptation is also widely regarded as a classic, leading to an Oscar for Gregory Peck, who played Atticus. Neither the book, nor the film, should be missed.	2004-09-17
US	48954632	R39C5LUA6UQ1PH	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Harry Bosch : Fighting on Two Fronts	\\"The Concrete Blonde\\" is Michael Connelly's third book, was first published in 1994 and - like his previous two - features Harry Bosch as its central character. A little of Bosch's background, and many of his quirks, have been touched onin the previous two books. He's a jazz fan, with a taste for coffee, beer and cigarettes. Having served as a Tunnel Rat in Viet-Nam, he' returned home and joined the police force. Bosch currently works at the Hollywood Division's Homicide table, though he had once been a member of the LAPD's elite RHD (Robbery - Homicide Division). The last case he worked in RHD, about four years previously, had been the \\"Dollmaker Case\\". Harry and his colleagues were hunting a serial killer, whose afvoured victims were prostitutes. The case was closed when Harry shot and killed Norman Church, the leading suspect. As a result of his actions, however, Bosch was investigated by IAD (Internal Affairs Division), suspended for a month and 'demoted' to his current position.  <br /> <br />The Dollmaker Case resurfaces in this book. Bosch and the Police Department are being sued by Church's widow, claiming that her husband was innocent and that Harry had killed the wrong man. Her lawyer is Honey Chandler, a civil rights attorney who specialises in police abuse cases. Bosch meanwhile - like the police department - have no doubt that Church was the Dollmaker, and \\"good\\" for the eleven killings. Unfortunately, for Bosch there's a fly in the ointment. Just as the trial starts, a new body is found buried beneath a concrete slab in a derelict building. The directions to it were contained in a note delivered to Harry's station - not only does it claim responsibility for the murder, but it also matches some other notes attributed to the Dollmaker. Obviously, this raises some very awkward questions - most notably, is the Dollmaker still alive ? If so, Bosch is obviously in a lot of trouble with his court case. There are other possibilities, though - the Dollmaker mayhave been working with another killer, or there may be a copycat. Bosch must not only deal with the court case, but assist in the investigation.  <br /> <br />Like Connelly's previous two books - \\"The Black Echo\\" and \\"The Black Ice\\" - I found this to be a very enjoyable book : it's possibly the best of the three. I would, however, recommend reading the three in order. The previous books will cover some parts of Harry's life and career that are referred to in this book - for example, his mother's life and death, his history with Irving, how he met Sylvia Moore and the nature of their relationship. Knowing the \\"full story\\" will add to the enjoyment of this installment. The other books are very enjoyable also - reading them will be anything other than a burden !	2004-09-13
US	48954632	R26QICKJA5DG3P	1856880249	680259608	Sean Kelly: A Man for All Seasons	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Kelly, the King	Sean Kelly, an Irishman from Carrick-on-Suir, was a professional cyclist from 1977 to 1994 and is considered one of the greats. While he never won the Tour de France, he won the Tour's green jersey four times - a record until the coming of Erik Zabel. He did, however, win a major tour, taking the Vuelta (the Tour of Spain) in 1988 - with only serious bad luck having prevented him from winning it the previous year. His record of seven consecutive wins in the Paris - Nice stil stands though - the only professional to date to have accomplished that in any race. His form for the classics was always excellent - he won 22 in total, including the Tour of Lombardy, the Paris - Roubaix, Milan - San Remo and Liege - Bastogne - Liege. He won two bronze medals in the World Championships, the inaugural World Cup and the  Super Prestige Pernod Trophy three times. Since retirement in 1994, his main involvement in professional cycling has been commentating for Eurosport.     \\"A Man for All Seasons\\" is divided into four sections - Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter. Each section relates to a period of Kelly's career, and each has an introduction written by David Walsh. Walsh also wrote a biography of Kelly in the 1980s - which now (sadly) appears to be out of print. The majority of each section is made up of a series of photographs, relating to that section of Kelly's career. Kelly himself briefly outlines the story behind each photo - providing, for example, a few details on the race being contested and the other riders pictured.     Although it has missed the last few years of Kelly's career, this is a book well worth having - particularly for anyone who idolised the man himself (like me) or who followed cycling in general while he was a professional. The photographs make up the bulk of the book, and they do inspire a certain feeling of nostalgia. While the focus is obviously on Kelly, cyclists like Stephen Roche, Adri van der Poel, Eric Vanderaerden and a very young looking Laurent Fignon also feature.	2004-09-10
US	48954632	R1MHZ7SISVNOX1	0330303260	648336353	A Scorching Wind	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Irish Trilogy : Part Three	Walter Macken, a native of Galway, was born in 1915 and died in his home city at the age of 51. A writer, an actor and a playwright, he is perhaps best known for his novel \\"Flight of the Doves\\" - which was adapted for the cinema - and his \\"Irish Trilogy\\". \\"The Scorching Wind\\" is the third book of this trilogy, and is set in the early 1900s. Although the book itself is a work of fiction, many of the 'background' events actually happened - for example, the Easter Rising of 1916, the partition of Ireland in 1921 and the Irish Civil War (1922-23).    The book opens in the West of Ireland in 1915, with two brothers resting in the shade of a haystack. Much to the disgust of their father, Dualta - the elder brother - has joined the British Army. Dualta believed the words of John Redmond, the leader of the Home Rule Party at Westminster. Redmond had suggested that Ireland would be granted Home Rule if the Irish Volunteers fought for the British in the Great War - a false promise. The book focuses more on Dominic, however - the younger of the two brothers. He sees his brother off to war, the pair travelling with a close friend called Poric into town. Poric has also disappointed Dominic's father, his former teacher, by joining the police. Shortly after leaving his brother and friend. Dominic meets a man called Sam Browne - who gradually involves Dominic in the struggle for freedom. Among the many others who also become involved are Lowry, an acquaintance of Dominic's at college and the pretty Finola Brady - not to mention Poric and Dualta, on his return from war.     While this is the third book in a trilogy, it's not strictly necessary to read them in order. However, I think it's probably better if you do - if you enjoy one of them, I have no doubt you'll enjoy all three. It appears the heroes of the two previous books (Dominick, in \\"Seek the Fair Land\\" and Dualta, in \\"The Silent People\\") are ancestors of the two brother. In a way, I found this to be the saddest book of thethree, with the differences between the two brothers becoming more pronounced as the book progresses. (If you've enjoyed this book, you might also want to try \\"Call My Brother Back\\", by Michael McLaverty. It's set in Belfast, at the same time as this book - McLavery, like Macken, is an excellent storyteller.)	2004-09-07
US	48954632	RNXAAVCHAVJK4	0349107688	797600442	Whit	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Whit and Wisdom of Banks	Iain Banks first novel, The Wasp Factory, was published in 1984. In the years since, he's won critical acclaim, topped best-seller lists and has even written Science Fiction books under the cunning nom-de-plume 'Iain M. Banks'. He's also seen this book, \\"The Crow Road\\", adapted for television by the BBC in 1996. \\"Whit\\" is his eighth non-sci-fi book, was first published in 1995 and comes with the subtitle \\"Isis Amongst the Unsaved\\".  <br /> <br />The book's central character is Isis Whit, commonly called Is -  though more formally known as Blessed or Beloved Isis. Isis is a Luskentyrian, a member of a religious sect founded by her grandfather, Salvador. Like him, she is very important to the faithful - she holds the position 'Elect of God' and is a future leader of the Luskentyrians. Home is High Easter Offerance - located in Scotland, on the banks of the River Forth. The book opens in May 1995, when Isis is nineteen years old and with the Festival of Love approaching. The Luskentyrians consider people born on the 29th of February very special - the Blessed Isis herself was born on that date. As a result, a Festival of Love is held every four years - at the end of May in the year preceding a Leap Year. As the end of May is nine months before the end of February and it is a Festival of Love, I'm sure you can figure out what happens at it... <br /> <br />Isis' cousin, Morag - while not strictly considered a missionary - has been living in London for six years. Based on her letters, it appears she has become a successful musician - an internationally renowned baryton soloist, no less. She had been due to return to High Easter Offerance for the festival, where she would have been the Guest of Honour. However, her most recent letter to the community includes the news that she has turned her back on her faith and will not be returning. One possible option was for Isis to take Morag's place as guest of Honour - something she wasn't entirely keen on. Instead, Isis is sent toLondon to try and rescue her cousin - the book tells the story of her journey and return.  <br /> <br />This is only the second book by Banks I've read, the first being \\"The Crow Road\\". Like it, I found \\"Whit\\" to be very enjoyable. It's told entirely from Isis' point of view - she describes her journey, outlines her discoveries, explains her beliefs and tells the history of her sect. Luskentyrians avoid modern technology as far as possible - nothing at High Easter Offerance runs on electricity, for example. It's amusing, at times, to see her reaction to life in the 'modern' world. There are several very strong supporting characters - Yolanda, Isis' very colourful and hugely entertaining Texan grandmother, particularly stands out. The only disappointment is that some of them didn't make a bigger appearance. Highly recommended !	2004-08-26
US	48954632	R15I121YQYZO3C	0671047426	254872191	Spanking Watson (Kinky Friedman Novels (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	You Never Marry the First Person You Watch Casablanca With	\\"Spanking Watson\\" is Kinky's eleventh book, and was first published in 1999. As with his other books, Kinky has cast himself as the amateur-PI hero, while some of the other characters have been based on actual friends. As with real-life, the book's Kinky is a cigar-smoking, cat-loving, espresso-guzzling, whiskey-drinking, ex-country and western performer. He shares his loft on Vandam Street with his cat - who he occasionally leaves in charge. Conversations between Kinky and the cat tend to be somewhat one-sided, while the cat consistently refuses to answer the telephone.    Winnie Katz still lives upstairs, and continues to run her lesbian dance classes. While this has never caused Kinky any serious problem before, it's been the cause of a slight inconvenience now : the constant pounding on Winnie's floor has left a rather large hole in the Kinkster's roof. Rambam, a genuine PI and Village Irregular, has arranged for two repairmen to help out - Vinnie and Gepetto, known \\"associates\\" of Joe the Hyena. Kinky had received his espresso machine several years earlier from Joe, a token of thanks for rescuing his daughter from a mugger. Vinnie and Gepetto, admiring the machine, tell Kinky there's only one problem : Joe doesn't have a daughter. Obviously, Kinky's curious - but Joe is, of course, the sort of Italian \\"businessman\\" you don't get curious about.     On a lonely Friday night, in an anger encouraged by several generous helpings of Jameson's Whiskey, Kinky writes a series of threatening letters to Winnie - never, of course,with any intention of delivering them, never mind acting on them. When Ratso catches sight of them the next day, Kinky decides to put them to good use. He would provide each of the Village Irregulars with a copy of a note, and ask for their help - while asking them to keep their investigations secret from the other members of the gang. The Irregular who successfully solved the \\"case\\" would officially become \\"Watson\\" to Kinky's \\"Sherlock\\". Of course, this plan would have the added bonus of disrupting not only Winnie's life but also her dance classes.     \\"Spanking Watson\\" has much in common with the other books by Kinky I've read. Not an entirely serious 'whodunit', it is a fast moving and easily read book. The story, I felt, is much better than his earlier books, and he still delivers his one-liners. While his quips won't be to everyone's tastes, it was a book I thoroughly enjoyed.	2004-08-13
US	48954632	RRG9ABZ2JOVEL	0060012382	183980834	The Wee Free Men (Tiffany Aching)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Crivens ! We Willna' Be Fooled Again !	Miss Perspicacia Tick is a full-time witch with a Gold Swimming Certificate from the Quirm College for Young Ladies. As the book opens, she has just discovered a ripple in the walls of the world - this, she suspects,is being caused by another world making contact. The point of contact appears to be in an area called the Chalk - she thinks she should go and investigate, but her elbow (which is rarely wrong) tells her there is already a witch living there.  <br /> <br />Tiffany Aching, the book's heroine, is nine years old and lives on a farm in the Chalk. She has six older sisters, one younger brother (the permanently sticky Wentworth) and is very good with cheese. Throughout the book, it's clear she idolised her Granny Aching, who died when Tiffany was seven. Granny was a shepherdess, an expert on sheep, very fond of Jolly Sailor tobacco and - Tiffany suspects - a witch. Remembering how Granny always said it was important to speak up for those who have no voice, Tiffany has decided she wants to be a witch as well.  <br /> <br />As it turns out, Tiffany is the witch Miss Tick's elbow sensed and has the gifts of First Sight and Second Thoughts. Miss Tick is also correct about two worlds colliding - Fairyland, ruled by the Queen, is running into the Discworld. Fairyland is where dreams come true, which isn't quite as pleasant as you might think - nightmares, after all, also count as dreams. Worse yet, after having \\"rescued\\" Wentworth from Jenny Green-Teeth, thanks to an expertly delivered frying-pan to the face, Wentworth is kidnapped by the Queen. Tiffany feels it's up to herto rescue him and bring him home.  <br /> <br />The stars of the book, however, are the Wee Free Men. Also known as the Nac Mac Feegle, they were thrown out of Fairyland for being drunk, disorderly and rebelloius. A Pictsie race, they are covered in tattoos, have blue skin and red hair and wear little other than kilts and swords. Extremely strong and fast, they enjoy stealing, fighting and drinking - Granny Aching's Special Sheep Linament is a particular favourite. They don't like telling anyone their names, think writing is magical and are frightened only of lawyers. Luckily for Tiffany, they join her raid on Fairyland. Rob Anybody Feegle, the Big Man O' The Clan, is especially brave, while Not-as-big-as-Medium-Sized-Jock-but-bigger-than-Wee-Jock-Jock is notable for his willingness to use poetry in tight situations. The Toad (Miss Tick's familiar) - who is reasonably sure he was once human - also offers Tiffany a great deal of advice on her travels. His current condition is the result of having crossed a Fairy Godmother.  <br /> <br />\\"The Wee Free Men\\", a \\"Story of Discworld\\" rather than a \\"Discworld Novel\\", won the Locus Award for Best Young Adult Novel in 2004. If you've enjoyed anything from the ordinary Discworld series, you'll certainly enjoy this !	2004-08-12
US	48954632	R39O6VT5FULICH	0375432302	315416156	The Da Vinci Code (Large Print)	Books	2	34	58	N	N	Detention for Mr Brown !	The second of Dan Brown's books to feature Robert Langdon, &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; opens in Paris with the death of Jacques Sauniere. Murdered by a mysterious albino, Sauniere - the curator of the Louvre - realises that a highly important secret will die with him if he doesn't find some way of passing it on.<br /><br /> A short time later, Langdon is woken by a phone call. A professor of Religious Symbology at Harvard University and the author of several books, his first adventure was outlinedin &quot;Angels and Demons&quot; - the events of which have turned him into something of a celebrity. In Paris on business, the phone call leads him to the Louvre at the request of the DCPF - officially to lend his experience and knowledge at the crime scene. Sauniere's body had been found in a very strange position, with a number of codes, symbols and phrases written on and around the corpse. Furthermore, it's clear that Sauniere himself was responsible for writing the codes. As Langdon puzzles over the meaning of what he sees, Sophie Neveu, a French cryptologist, arrives at the scene. She provided interesting information on the meaning of the codes, and some disturbing information for Langdon himself. It seems that, rather than being asked along for his expertise, he is instead the prime suspect. Langdon and Neveu go on the run - trying to avoid arrest and the albino, while also trying to solve the mysterious sequence left by Sauniere.<br /><br /> After I'd heard so many positive reports about this book, I found it something of a disappointment. Langdon wasn't an entirely likeable character - there were times he was a little smug or dismissive - while Neveu, his sidekick, sometimes appeared almost gullible. Bearing in mind both Langdon's and Neveu's professions it was almost shocking watching them struggle with some of the most obvious clues. While Dan Brown may have been an English teacher, this book does little to support the suggestion that he is a &quot;master craftsman&quot;. The twists and turns I'd heard so much about were pretty obvious, while certain words and phrases were used to the point of distraction. On the other hand, the story is easily enough followed - you won't have to concentrate to figure out what's going on. It'll be a useful way to pass a few hours on a long flight or on the beach. On the whole, though, I think I'd recommend &quot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot;, by Umberto Eco instead. It has a similar 'theme' to &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, but is a much more absorbing book.r craftsman&quot;. The twists and turns I'd heard so much about were pretty obvious, while certain words and phrases were used to the point of distraction. On the other hand, the story is easily enough followed - you won't have to concentrate to figure out what's going on. It'll be a useful way to pass a few hours on a long flight or on the beach. On the whole, though, I think I'd recommend &quot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot;, by Umberto Eco instead. It has a similar 'theme' to &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, but is a much more absorbing book.	2004-08-06
US	48954632	R1OV3LHPPQC621	002578000X	760254146	Silent People	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Irish Trilogy : Part 2	Walter Macken, a native of Galway, was born in 1915 and died in his home city at the age of 51. A writer, an actor and a playwright, he is perhaps best known for his novel &quot;Flight of the Doves&quot; - which was adapted for the cinema - and his &quot;Irish Trilogy&quot;. &quot;The Silent People&quot; is the second book of this trilogy, and is set in the early to mid Nineteenth Century. Although the book itself is a work of fiction, many of the 'background' events are true - for example, the Great Famine (1845 - 1849) and the actions of Daniel O'Connell.       The book follows the life of Dualta Duane and opens in 1826. Dualta, orphaned when his own family died in the 1817 famine, is seventeen and lives with his Uncle Marcus. They live in small village, in the Corrib Country of County Galway. However, after Dualta topples the landlord's son from his horse in anger, the pair are forced to separate and flee. The consequences of staying would, most likely, have seen Dualta beaten to within an inch of his life and transported to Australia. Managing to escape those hunting him, Dualta is briefly sheltered by a man called Mairtin and later travels onwards with Mairtin's son, Paidi. Together, they move southwards and seek work as diggers. Dualta, promising Paidi he'll keep in touch, is hired by a man called Cuan McCarthy. His work, however, doesn't involve digging and the next time he sees Paidi the circumstances are less than happy.       As the story progresses, several further characters are introduced. The most significant, to Dualta at least, is Una - the daughter of an English landlord called Wilcocks. While her father had been a Protestant, her mother had been an Irish Catholic who converted to marry him. It would have been a very unusual marriage in those times - however, Una's mother died when she was thirteen. Daniel O'Connell, a hugely important figure in Irish history and responsible for bringing Catholic Emancipation, also appears in this book.      There'san implication that Dualta may be a descendent of Dominick MacMahon. Dominick was the central character of &quot;Seek the Fair Land&quot;, the first book of this Trilogy. (The third is called &quot;The Scorching Wind&quot;, and is set in the early 1900s). Although a trilogy, it isn't necessary to read the books in order - though if you enjoy one of them, you'll probably enjoy all three. &quot;The Silent People&quot; isn't always a cheerful book - it's set during a very difficult period of Ireland's history. However, it's a book I would highly recommend - I've always found anything Walter Macken has written very easy to read.	2004-07-05
US	48954632	R4M6XWBYBCTO	0061075647	621961189	The World Is Filled with Mondays (Peanuts Treasury)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Curious Incident of the Beagle in the Nighttime	There can't be too many people who haven't heard of Charlie Brown and his crazy beagle, Snoopy. This compilation, first published in 1999, features the duo and the rest of the Peanuts gang - including Charlie's little sister, Sally, hard-hearted Lucy, Linus and his security blanket, Peppermint Patti and the 'excessively weird' Marcie.      The main highlights of this book, for me, were the sections that focus on Snoopy. A very imaginative dog, his escapades as a GI, a World War One flying ace and a member of the French Foreign Legion are touched on. His adventures see him join Charlie on a trip to summer camp, and he attempts - several times - to write that elusive best selling novel. Snoopy's sporting abilities are also in evidence, as a golfer and as the shortstop on Charlie Brown's baseball team - which, admittedly, seems to be on a never-ending losing streak. Snoopy's trusty sidekick, Woodstock, also appears. A little of Woodstock's ancestry is revealed when the duo discover a cage that Woodstock's grandfather had briefly lived in. Snoopy also comes down with pneumonia in this book and has to go to hospital. While a patient, his visitors include his brothers Andy, Spike and Olaf.       For me, Peanuts is the best cartoon strip around - it sets the standard and is guaranteed quality. In fact, the only thing it left me wishing for is more !	2004-07-05
US	48954632	R3A0US6HBHGA4V	0553574477	619244799	Armadillos & Old Lace	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Crunchy on the Outside, Chewy on the Inside	&quot;Armadillos and Old Lace&quot; is Kinky's seventh novel and is his first to be set away from New York. Instead, the action takes place at 'home' - in and around Echo Hill Ranch, Texas. This means, of course, that Kinky must solve this mystery without the help of people like Ratso, Rambam and John McGovern - though he has brought the cat along with him. While the cat doesn't voice her opinion on their new home - a green trailer - it's obvious that she isn't impressed.  <br />  <br /> Kinky has, once again, cast himself as the PI hero and has continued to use family and friends as the book's supporting characters. Echo Hill Ranch was founded by his parents, Tom and Min, in the early 1950s. Min died in 1985, before the book was written - though Tom does appear and is always referred to by his first name. A summer camp is held on the ranch every year, and Kinky's sister, Marcie, appears as one of the camp counsellors. (It was Marcie's idea that Kinky should start writing mystery novels - I will be eternally grateful to her). Frances Kaiser, Kerr County's Sheriff, and Pat Knox, Kerrville's Justice of the Peace, also appear. The green trailer, Kinky's place of residence in this book, is where he wrote several of his early books. It's now (apparently) home to an armadillo, who presumably answers to the name of Dilly. Much use is also made of Dusty, his mother's old talking car. However, further comparisons with David Hasselhoff and KITT just don't stand up. <br />  <br /> Though Kinky has returned home for a holiday, Pat Knox has other ideas. She contacts regarding hom the deaths of four old ladies who have died over the previous five months. Although the Sheriff, Frances Kaiser, has found nothing suspicious about any of them, Pat remains convinced they were murdered. She asks Kinky to look over her files and form an opinion - though he initially agrees with the Sheriff. However, his opinion starts to change when a fifth victim turns up - with her lips sewn shut.  <br/>  <br /> This is the best of Kinky's books I've read to date - though, admittedly, I haven't read then all. He still delivers a fast-moving book, with more one-liners than you reasonably hope for, but it also has the benefit of a strong story. In addition, he writes with a strong sense of affection form the camp and the people who have helped out there over the years. His quips may not be to everyone's taste, but this is a book I thoroughly enjoyed.	2004-06-28
US	48954632	R1HFS9M8UP4WUI	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	4	51	54	N	N	The Michael Connelly All Stars !	Michael Connelly's 14th book - his 10th to feature Harry Bosch - is the book he once swore he'd never write : the sequel to &quot;The Poet&quot;. For it, he's assembled an all-star cast. Bosch, a former member of the LAPD and now a card carrying PI - is joined by FBI Agent Rachel Walling. Walling was one of the central characters of &quot;The Poet&quot; and - at the time - was based at BSS in Quantico. However, shortly after the events of that book, she was &quot;demoted&quot; to North Dakota. Terry and Graciela McCaleb and Buddy Lockridge - who all made their first appearances in &quot;Blood Work&quot; - also have parts to play. Of the three, Terry's is the smallest, but certainly the most significant. Cassie Black, the central character of &quot;Void Moon&quot;, also makes an appearance - if you know where to look. And then, obviously, there's the Poet.<br />Bosch now divides his time between LA and Vegas, where he rents a small one room efficiency to be near his daughter. Things aren't going well between Harry and his ex-wife, Eleanor Wish - who makes her living at the city's poker tables. Harry's first appearance in the book sees him talking to Terry McCaleb's widow. Graciela. Terry was a former FBI Agent, and had previously worked a couple of cases with Harry. His first appearance was in the 'solo' novel &quot;Blood Work&quot;. This was only Connelly's second book not to feature Bosch, and was later made into a movie starring Clint Eastwood. Terry has recently died of a heart attack while on a fishing trip, after having received a heart transplant a number of years earlier. Graciela, however, believes the heart attack was caused because someone interfered with his medication - essentially meaning he was murdered. Graciela wants Bosch to look into it, an assignment he is happy to accept. He starts by looking through some case files Terry kept on his boat - one of then deals with the Poet.<br />Meanwhile, Rachel Walling receives a phone call from a former colleague at the FBI in Quantico. A package has arrived there, through the post, addressed to her - despite the fact that it's been a number of years since she worked there. It contains a Global Positioning System (GPS) reader, with one way-point marked : the Mojave desert, just inside California. A fingerprint on its battery confirms that the Poet sent the package, and a number of bodies have subsequently been found at the location marked by the way-point. Walling, due to her links to the case, is summoned to the field-office in Vegas to assist the investigation. <br />With two main characters, Connelly tells the story in two distinct ways. The sections featuring Bosch are written from his point of view (&quot;Without a word, he reached down and grabbed two fists full of my jacket&quot;). However, the sections that focus on other characters are written about them (&quot;Rachel was at the second row of tables, sitting by herself&quot;). While I did enjoy the book - much more so than &quot;Lost Light&quot; - I felt the pace only really picked up when Bosch and Walling started working together. I was also surprised and disappointed that Connelly killed Terry McCaleb off. The Poet seems less of a threat in this book, though this is possibly because his identity has already been established. My advice ? If you're a fan of Michael Connelly, and you've read most of his books, you'll certainly enjoy this one. However, this is far from the best place to start if you've never read anything by him. I'd definitely recommend reading at least &quot;The Poet&quot; before this one - and as many of the other Bosch books as possible !	2004-06-25
US	48954632	R1WMSDMAQ5MAYA	0425123456	684099776	Frequent Flyer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It Was A Coffee-Coloured River	Kinky Friedman is a former country and western performer and a possible future Governor of Texas. \\"Frequent Flyer\\" is his fourth book and was originally published in the US in 1989. (It first appeared in the UK as part of the compilation \\"More Kinky Friedman\\" in 1993). As usual, he has cast himself as the PI her, while some of the other characters have been named after real-life friends. As with real life, the book's Kinky is a cigar-smoking, cat-loving, coffee-drinking, retired country and western performer. He lives in a loft on Vandam Street, in New York City, and regularly leaves the cat in charge. The less-than-talkative cat, however, refuses to answer the telephone.     The book opens with Kinky receiving a phone call from a mysterious stranger, telling him of a old friend's death. John Morgan, the deceased in question, had served with Kinky in the Peace Corps Volunteers in Borneo. Kinky immediately makes arrangements to attend the funeral in Cleveland - which is exactly where the trouble begins. He recognises only few people at the funeral - Morgan's parents, for example, for photos he'd seen. However, he doesn't recognise the corpse, and - strangely - nobody else seems to have noticed that the wrong person is getting buried. On his return to Vandam Street, he receives another phone call. The caller, this time, is an Argentinean lady called Carmen. When he goes to meet her at her hotel, he discovers she's missing - apparently kidnapped. Before long, the ingredients to the mystery include a strange old man who wears blue flowers in lapel, some photos taken in the jungle, the 88 Leasing Corporation (incorporated in 1946) and a white tiger with blue eyes. During the investigation, he meets a number of less than savoury bad guys - luckily, he has people like Ratso, Rambam and John McGovern to help him out.     \\"Frequent Flyer\\" has much in common with the other books by Kinky I've read. While it's not what I would call a serious \\"whodunit\\" - some loose ends are left dangling - it is a fast moving and easily read book. It's also packed with superbly delivered one-liners. As an author, Kinky has been described as irreverent - though that might be putting it mildly !	2004-06-23
US	48954632	R3AW246ORO3SZO	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Compulsive Reading	\\"The Poet\\" is Michael Connelly's 5th book, and proved to be something of a departure for him - it was his first book not to feature Harry Bosch. Instead of Bosch, the central character is Jack McEvoy, a journalist based in Denver. He works for the \\"Rocky Mountain News\\", covering virtually whatever murder he chooses. As the book opens, he's just been told of his twin brother's suicide.<br /><br />Sean, his twin, was a cop in Denver. He worked in the \\"Crimes Against Persons\\" unit, an area that included the investigation of murders. Not long before his death, he had directed the investigation of one particularly gruesome and high profile case. Theresa Lofton, the victim, was a 19-year-old student who corpse had been found cut into two parts. No progress had been made in the case, and the police initially believe that this case had simply \\"got\\" to Sean. He was found in his car, on the shore of Bear Lake, having apparently shot himself.  There was a note written in the steam of the car windscreen : \\"Out of space, out of time\\". It's not the first death in the family - McEvoy's younger sister had drowned in the same lake about twenty years previously.<br /><br />When Jack returns to work after the funeral, he decides to write about his brother - a decision that, initially, isn't too popular with either his parents or his brother's widow. Part of the background research he does includes looking over reports in other newspapers regarding police suicides. One of the reports he finds covers the apparent suicide of John Brooks, a Detective in Denver. Brooks' case is a carbon copy of Sean's - right down to the suicide notes : both are quotations from poems written by Edgar Allen Poe. Jack, feeling there are too many similarities to be coincidental, now believes his brother was murdered.<br /><br />This book is easily up there with the best of the Bosch novels. The Poet, the book's villain, is a thoroughly disgusting character - and, in my opinion, the most memorable of Connelly's bad guys. I didn't find McEvoy quite as likeable as Bosch, though - at times, it nearly seemed that getting the story was at least as important to him as catching his brother's killer. All the same, I found it to be a gripping book - one that I'd recommend highly.find McEvoy quite as likeable as Bosch, though - at times, it nearly seemed that getting the story was at least as important to him as catching his brother's killer. All the same, I found it to be a gripping book - one that I'd recommend highly.	2004-05-27
US	48954632	R1PKPBA4PKRBS8	0330020625	532714450	Seek the Fair Land	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Well Written and Easily Read	Walter Macken, a native of Galway, was born in 1915 and died in his home city at the age of 51. A writer, an actor and a playwright, he is perhaps best known for his novel &quot;Flight of the Doves&quot; - which was adapted for the cinema - and his &quot;Irish Trilogy&quot;. &quot;Seek the Fair Land&quot; is the first book of this trilogy, and is set at the time of the Cromwellian Invasions. Although the book itself is a work of fiction, many of the 'background' events are true.       Opening in 1641, the book's central character is Dominick McMahon - having previously lost everything in the Plantation, he now lives in Drogheda. A merchant by trade, he is a husband and a father when he first meets Murdoc - a warrior from the west of Ireland. Dominic himself has little appetite for fighting - though eight years later, he is forced to defend his town against Cromwell's invading army. Within two days of Cromwell's arrival, the town had fallen, with women, children and priests among the estimated 4000 dead. Dominic, however, survives the attack and is forced to flee the city. While his wife, Eibhlinn, is killed in the siege, his son - Peter - and daughter - Mary Ann - also survive. However, the soldier who killed Eibhlinn also left Peter mute with a blow to the head. Joining the family on their escape is a member of the clergy, Father Sebastian, who was rescued by Dominic in the town. They move westwards, towards an area Murdoc had described to Dominic eight years previously - where he hopes he'll be able to raise his family in peace.      I've read a number of Walter Macken's books, and I've found each one very easy to read - like Michael McLaverty, he's a natural storyteller. It isn't always a cheerful book - life for Dominick, his family and Sebastian is a genuine struggle. However, it is a book I'd highly recommend. The remaining books of the trilogy are &quot;The Silent People&quot; and &quot;The Scorching Wind&quot; - well worth reading if you've enjoyed this one.	2004-05-27
US	48954632	R3TL8Y8AK571IB	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	4	1	3	N	N	There and Back Again : A Hobbit's Tale	A classic children's story, J.R.R. Tolkien's \\"The Hobbit\\" was first published in 1937. The hero of the book is a hobbit called Bilbo Baggins. A small and agile race, hobbits are generally between two and four feet in height. They rarely wear shoes, and - while not magical - can move both quickly and quietly. Fond of eating, drinking and skilled in the smoking of pipe-weed, hobbits live in holes in the ground and thoroughly disapprove of adventures. Bilbo, as the book begins, appears to be a very typical hobbit. He lives in a very comfortable and well-stocked hole, known as Bag End, in a town called Hobbiton. However, things change after a visit from Gandalf the Grey - a very famous wizard - and thirteen dwarves. Thorin Oakenshield, the dwarves' leader, is leading a mission to the Lonely Mountain far to the east of Hobbiton. Thorin's people had lived there until being driven out by a dragon, known as Smaug the Magnificent, and he intends to reclaim their stolen home and treasure. Gandalf has persuaded Thorin to bring Bilbo along as the company's burglar. Unfortunately, Bilbo knew nothing of this until the night before they were all due to leave. Although Bilbo has no good reason to join the group of exiles on their adventure, he still decides to go along with them. As the book progresses, he meets many strange people and creatures - including giant spiders, trolls, goblins and elves. The strangest of them all, however, must surely have been a riddle-loving creature called Gollum who cares only for something he calls his \\"precious\\".<br />Following the success of Peter Jackson's film adaptations of the Hobbit's slightly more famous sequel, the Hobbit may  - for a short time at least - be seen as nothing more than a precursor to \\"Lord of the Rings\\". It does introduce certain things that play key parts in \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" : the race of Hobbits, Gandalf, Gollum and, of course, the Ring itself. However, it is a complete story in itself with a start, middle and end ! \\"The Hobbit\\" will be greatly enjoyed by children - and will also be enjoyed by adults who choose to read it.\\"The Hobbit\\" will be greatly enjoyed by children - and will also be enjoyed by adults who choose to read it.	2004-05-07
US	48954632	R15NTWA1GKJBZL	0446613444	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	No Sleep Till Mexicali	This is Michael Connelly's second book and - like his first - features Harry Bosch as its central character. Little has changed for Bosch in the eighteen months since the events of &quot;The Black Echo&quot;. He's still a jazz-loving loner who's happy to bend the rules, while his taste for coffee, beer and cigarettes remains undiminished. <br />As the book begins, it's Christmas Day and our hero is at home, alone and on call. Monitoring police / fire / ambulance radio messages on his scanner, he picks up a message regarding an apparent homicide within Hollywood boundaries that is being dealt with directly by RHD. Despite the fact that it's Christmas, Bosch isn't too happy that he wasn't notified first - as he should've been, according to protocol. Arriving uninvited at the scene of the crime, he tries to edge his way into things. At first glance, it's an apparent suicide involving Cal Moore, another cop working out of the Hollywood Division's narcotics unit. Although they worked in the same department, Bosch didn't know Moore that well. They'd only spoken properly once, about a stalled case Bosch was working : the murder of a drugs runner called Jimmy Kapps. Bosch was hoping Moore could give him a few leads - about the drug he was smuggling in from Hawaii, called Ice, and possible rival gangs who may have been responsible for his death. Bosch was aware, however, he'd had a few problems - including a possible showdown with IAD. Bosch's only involvement in the case, however, is informing Moore's widow. <br />The following day, Bosch's boss - Harvey '98' Pounds - tells him to stop working the Kapps case and to keep away the Moore case. One of Bosch's fellow homicide detectives, Lou Porter, has decided to retire on stress related grounds - though it has been commonly known for some time that Porter had a drinking problem. Pounds has assigned Porter's cases to Bosch in the hope that Bosch will be able to clear at least one of them by New Year's Eve. Things soon become complicated though - Bosch's investigations constantly bring Cal Moore back into the equation. Of Porter's cases, he settles on the murder of an unidentified Mexican, whose corpse has been found dumped beside the kitchen door of a diner. Although it was Porter's case, Cal Moore had found the corpse. Not long afterwards, Bosch is contacted by Moore's former colleagues - Moore had left a file for Bosch's attention, with some information regarding the Kapps case. The information throws up some interesting coincidences - and Bosch doesn't believe in coincidences. Now believing that Moore case isn't a straightforward suicide, he believes that the cases are so tightly connected that in solving one he'll solve them all. <br />Like Connolly's first book, I found this a very enjoyable story. Although this is the second book to feature Harry Bosch, it's not entirely necessary to have read the books in order. There's nothing in it that'll have any major impact on this story - but I would recommend reading &quot;The Black Echo&quot; first. It will clarify a couple of minor points and cover some parts of Harry's background.	2004-05-07
US	48954632	R1XQQBRXDNECYJ	0349103232	737562840	The Crow Road	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If You Want A Book To Make You Smile...	Iain Banks first novel, The Wasp Factory, was published in 1984. In the years since, he's won critical acclaim, topped best-seller lists and has even written Science Fiction books under the cunning nom-de-plume 'Iain M. Banks'. He's also seen this book, \\"The Crow Road\\", adapted for television by the BBC in 1996. At the time, I was only vaguely aware of Banks - however, having stumbled across and enjoyed the BBC's adaptation, I was determined to pick the book up as well. I'm glad I did - as much as I can remember enjoying the show, I think I enjoyed the book more. <br />The Crow Road's central character is a young Scot called Prentice McHoan. A Star Wars fan as a boy, he's given up his attempts to master the force and now studies history at university in Glasgow. It would be fair to say, however, that he has more interest in alcohol, drugs and sex in general and the beautiful Verity Walker in particular. Prentice's key relationship, however, is probably the one he has (or, more accurately, doesn't have) with his father, Kenneth. Rather than Glasgow, most of the story takes place in and around his home village of Gallanach - visits home are fairly regular for various parties and funerals. Most of the supporting cast is made up of his own family, the Urvills and the Watts (friends to the McHoans over several generations). Fergus Urvill is not only Kenneth's brother-in-law, but also a lifelong friend. (Very good friends, in fact, based on the amount of abuse they give each other). As boys, Kenneth and Fergus were also friendly with Lachy Watt, an uncle of some Prentice's best friends : Ashley, Dean and Darren.<br />Due to a falling out with Kenneth, Prentice usually stays with his Uncle Hamish when he comes back to Gallanach - the rift between Kenneth and Prentice being caused by a difference of opinion over religion. However, not only is Uncle Hamish certain there is a God, he's also invented his own faith. Another uncle, Rory, an author and television presenter, hasn't been seen in 8 years - some believe him to be dead. Prentice, meanwhile, has a suspicion he's still alive while Kenneth seems strangely sure of it. The curiosity about where he is and what has happened to him simmers in the background until Prentice tries to find out what really happened to him.<br />The sections of the book that focus on Prentice are told from his point of view (\\"when I started to understand the lyrics of a Cocteau Twins song, I knew I was wrecked\\"). The remainder is told in 'flashback', about various different family members, and is written about them (\\"It was the last time Kenneth ever saw Rory\\"). I found it a little strange to begin with, but - once used to it - I found it really added to the enjoyment of the book. I'd look on it as less of a story, and more of a book about a group of people that strange and / or funny things happen to. That may sound a little strange, but it's a hugely enjoyable book and one that I would highly recommend.	2004-05-06
US	48954632	R1847USIQN8E0C	0439567610	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cho Chang : Any Witch Way You Can	\\"The Order of the Phoenix\\" is the fifth book in the Harry Potter series, and centres mostly on Harry's fifth year at Hogwarts. Orphaned when an evil wizard called Voldemort killed his parents, the attack left a strange lightning-shaped scar on Harry's forehead. Voldemort disappeared for many years after that attack, and Harry - although he didn't know it - became something of a celebrity in the magical community. Since the age of 11, Harry has been attending Hogwarts, a very prestigious school for training young witches and wizards. Unfortunately, since then it has become apparent that Voldemort's disappearance was only temporary, and his desire to kill Harry has not lessened.<br />It proves to be a particularly tough year for him, both academically and personally. In fifth year, Hogwarts students take their OWLs - wizard's exams - so his workload has increased dramatically. Also, after the events outlined in \\"The Goblet of Fire\\", both Harry and Dumbledore are being viewed with scorn by the Ministry of Magic and the Daily Prophet. Neither organisation is willing to believe that Voldemort is back, fully recovered - and seem determined to discredit both Dumbledore and Harry. In fact, it is said that any Ministry employee is in league with Dumbledore will be fired immediately.   <br />Luckily, there are those who know better. The Order of the Phoenix is a secret society formed by Dumbledore, consisting of people who had fought Voldemort previously. Several of its members have appeared in previous books, and include Mr and Mrs Weasley, Sirius Black, Professor Lupin, Mad Eye Mooney and Severus Snape. Unfortunately, they seem determined to tell Harry and his friends as little as possible about their plans and what Voldemort is up to. The Order's headquarters are at 12 Grimmauld Place, the ancestral home of the Blacks. Like Harry, Sirius is having difficulty coping with the situation. As an Azkaban escapee, he can't leave the house in case he is spotted - even though he'dmuch prefer to be offering more practical help. <br />There have been a couple of changes at Hogwarts also. Almost inevitably, there's a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Umbridge. A thoroughly obnoxious woman, she is also Senior Under-Secretary to the Minister of Magic. In a speech she makes after the sorting of the first years, she basically admits she is there to interfere with the running of Hogwarts. As the year progresses, she proves true to her word - additionally her teaching is woefully inadequate. Another new teacher introduced at the start of the school year is Professor Grubbly-Plank, who will be teaching Care of Magical Creatures - previously taught be Hagrid. Hagrid, of course, had been sent on a secret mission by Dumbledore at the end of the previous school year. <br />As with the previous instalment, \\"The Goblet of Fire\\", this is a very long and very enjoyable addition to the series. It's very easily read and will be enjoyed by both children and adults. However, before reading this book, I'd suggest reading \\"The Goblet of Fire\\" at the very least. Much of what happens there has a direct impact on the events of this book. Ideally, though, I'd recommend reading all the books in order - there are all very enjoyable!	2004-05-06
US	48954632	R1HS3OZLYZS9IB	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dragons, Dark Marks, Death Eaters...and Girls	The fourth book in the \\"Harry Potter\\" series, \\"The Goblet of Fire\\" was first  published in 2000 and deals largely with Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts. As the book begins, Harry is spending his holidays at Privet Drive. Although things have improved for him there since he started attending Hogwarts, the holidays are still far from enjoyable. He is thankfully rescued with an invitation to spend the last few weeks with the Weasley family at the Burrow. Better yet, the Quidditch World Cup Final - between Ireland and Bulgaria - is being played in England, and Harry, Hermione and most of the Weasley clan will be going to it. Mr Weasley, who works at the Ministry of Magic, had used some contacts at work to get the tickets. Some of his colleagues are at the match as well - for example, Barty Crouch (who is also Percy's new boss at the Ministry) and Ludo Bagman (a former professional Quidditch player). While Harry finds the event hugely enjoyable, it all goes pear-shaped : the celebrations are ruined by the appearance of a group of Death Eaters (supporters of Voldemort) torturing some Muggles and the appearance of the Dark Mark (Voldemort's symbol) in the sky.<br />The international theme is kept up throughout the book - on reaching Hogwarts, the pupils find out that a Tri-Wizard Tournament will be held during the school year. This is a very famous competition between the three largest European Schools of Wizardry and Witchcraft - Hogwarts, Beauxbatons and Durmstrang. One champion is selected to represent each school and - due to the difficulty and danger of the tasks involved - only students of 17 and over will be allowed to enter. Naturally, this means that - if the rules are adhered to - Harry won't be allowed to enter. Among the visiting students from Beauxbatons and Durmstrang are Victor Krum - who played Seeker for Bulgaria in the World Cup Final - and the highly attractive Fleur Delacour. Naturally, they don't arrive unsupervised - the Headmistress from Beauxbatons is Madame Maxime (who, incredibly, is around the same height is Hagrid) and Professor Karkaroff, from Durmstrang (where, they say, pupils actually study the Dark Arts).<br />Inevitably, there's another new Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts. This year, it's an ex-Auror by the name of Mad-Eye Mooney. An Auror is a Dark Wizard Catcher, and Mooney is widely regarded as one of the best ever. He is now, however, considered a little paranoid - for example, he drinks only out of his own hip flask. 'Mad Eye' is a pretty apt description - he has one 'normal' eye and one magical eye, which can see through doors, walls, invisibility cloaks and even through the back of his own head. There's more to be coped with than new teachers though - teenage hormones are now starting to affect our hero and his friends. Harry has taken a shine to Cho Chang (Ravenclaw's very pretty Seeker), while Ron - FINALLY - notices that Hermione is actually a girl.<br /><br />\\"The Goblet of Fire\\" is comfortably the longest one to date - at no point, however, does the story drag or feel 'stretched'. J.K Rowling has written another excellent book, and has given Harry and his friends another very enjoyable mystery to solve. Like all the other books in the series to date, it's very easily read and will be enjoyed by both children and adults. It probably would be better reading the series in order - certain things about the wizard's way of life and other characters are covered fully in the previous instalments. However, that shouldn't be too much of a burden, as the previous books are also very enjoyable !s Madame Maxime (who, incredibly, is around the same height is Hagrid) and Professor Karkaroff, from Durmstrang (where, they say, pupils actually study the Dark Arts).<br />Inevitably, there's another new Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts. This year, it's an ex-Auror by the name of Mad-Eye Mooney. An Auror is a Dark Wizard Catcher, and Mooney is widely regarded as one of the best ever. He is now, however, considered a little paranoid - for example, he drinks only out of his own hip flask. 'Mad Eye' is a pretty apt description - he has one 'normal' eye and one magical eye, which can see through doors, walls, invisibility cloaks and even through the back of his own head. There's more to be coped with than new teachers though - teenage hormones are now starting to affect our hero and his friends. Harry has taken a shine to Cho Chang (Ravenclaw's very pretty Seeker), while Ron - FINALLY - notices that Hermione is actually a girl.<br /><br />\\"The Goblet of Fire\\" is comfortably the longest one to date - at no point, however, does the story drag or feel 'stretched'. J.K Rowling has written another excellent book, and has given Harry and his friends another very enjoyable mystery to solve. Like all the other books in the series to date, it's very easily read and will be enjoyed by both children and adults. It probably would be better reading the series in order - certain things about the wizard's way of life and other characters are covered fully in the previous instalments. However, that shouldn't be too much of a burden, as the previous books are also very enjoyable !	2004-05-06
US	48954632	R25UWPADIJEH4J	0905169212	611271121	Call My Brother Back	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent Book, Under-rated Author	Michael McLaverty, a teacher by profession, was born in Monaghan in 1904 and spent most of his working life in Belfast. \\"Call My Brother Back\\" - his first novel - was originally published in 1939 and was apparently a favourite of Bing Crosby's.     As the book starts it is 1918, and Colm MacNeill is a 13-year-old boy living on Rathlin Island. Rathlin is found on the Sea of Moyle, between Ireland's North Antrim Coast and Scotland's Mull of Kintyre. It's not an easy life, by today's standards - Colm and his family scrape a living from the land and sea, with light provided by candles and heat by an open fire. There's only one school on the island, which Colm has just left - and he's due to be sent to Belfast, on the mainland, to continue his education. He already has two other siblings living in Belfast - Alec and Theresa - and when he leaves he'll leave two younger at home on the island - Jamesy and Clare.      Life in Belfast was to be hugely different to life on Rathlin for Colm. Rathlin was an isolated, rural existence, where the people were largely oblivious to the workings of the outside world. Belfast, on the other hand, brought narrow, terraced houses, cars, trams and the dirtier air caused by factories and mills. Initially a boarder at school, the transition was to prove very difficult for him. It was made a little easier when his family also leave Rathlin for the city and he is able to move back into a house with them. Prior to his arrival in Belfast, Colm certainly seemed to have little idea that he was living through a period of great upheaval in Irish history. The Easter Rising had taken place in Dublin only a couple of years previously, but had little effect on Colm and his way of life on Rathlin. The Partition of Ireland - the division of the island into Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland - was to have a great effect on his life in Belfast.     \\"Call My Brother Back\\", is an excellent book - McLaverty, like Walter Macken, is a natural storyteller. While some phrases may be a little strange for those readers who aren't familiar with Northern Ireland, it is a very easily read book. It does have a touch of sadness and regret about it, with sectarian hatred having a real effect on Colm and his family. However, it is a book I would highly recommend.	2004-04-26
US	48954632	R1QH5DTR1QZ3JY	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Escaped Convict ? You CANNOT Be Sirius !	First published in 1999, the book covers Harry's third year at Hogwarts and begins with the end of the summer holidays approaching. The previous summer, at the start of the Chamber of Secrets, Harry had been blamed by the Ministry of Magic for a spell performed by Dobby in Dursley's house. This summer, Harry panics as he accidentally casts a spell on a thoroughly obnoxious aunt. Convinced he was going to be expelled from Hogwarts, he decides to go on the run - but, before long the Minister for Magic corners him at Diagon Alley. Harry is somewhat surprised to be let off, given the trouble he got into the previous year - but relieved all he same. <br />The Magic Community seems to be much more concerned with a very dangerous criminal called Sirius Black who has become the first person to escape from Azkaban (the wizard prison). He had been sent there after being found guilty of murdering thirteen people - twelve of them muggles - with a single curse about twelve years earlier. Widely believed to be have been a big supporter of Voldemort's, the rumour is he's hunting for Harry. As a result, some Azkaban guards (disgusting creatures, known as Dementors) have been posted at Hogwarts for the protection of the pupils and staff. <br />Harry is, once again, joined by Ron and Hermione at Hogwarts. There's a bit of trouble between the trio this year, however. Much of that is caused by Hermione's new pet Crookshanks - a crazy cat, who seems determined to kill Ron's rat, Scabbers, at every opportunity. There are further some changes to life at Hogwarts. This year's Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher, is Professor Lupin who proves hugely popular with the majority of pupils. Despite the fact he dresses rather shabbily and gets strangely ill from time to time, Lupin actually seems to know what he's doing - unlike the previous post-holders, Professor Quirrell and Professor Gilderoy. However, it's obvious that Snape despises him nearly as much as he despises Harry. Although it's no secret that Snape has always wanted the Defence Against The Dark Arts, there seems to be a depth of feeling Quirrell and Gilderoy were spared. <br />The three friends are also taking a couple of new subjects in their third year. One of these is Care of Magical Creatures, taught by their old friend, Hagrid. Unfortunately, his first lesson leads to trouble with a Hippogriff. Another is Divination, taught by Professor Trelawney - who seems to be something of a crackpot. She apparently foresees at least one student's death every year, and this year picks on Harry. She somehow picks out the Grim (a death omen) from Harry's tealeaves. Harry probably wouldn't have been too worried, only he'd already seen something of a death omen when he was leaving Privet Drive. <br />This is the third book in the Harry Potter series and, for me, is comfortably the best in the series. It's an excellent story, with has a strong mystery element running through it, and is very easily read. I probably would be better reading the series in order. However, that shouldn't be too much of a burden, as the previous two books are also very enjoyable !	2004-03-15
US	48954632	R17E3ITZGQW5A	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Broomstick Is For Life, Not Just For Hallow'een	Orphaned as a baby, Harry Potter hasn't had the happiest of lives. Raised (in the loosest possible terms) by his Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, he never knew his parents and was not allowed to mention them. According to his Uncle and Aunt, they'd died in a car crash - the same accident that left a lightning-shaped scar on Harry's forehead. Forced to sleep in the cupboard under the stairs, fed sparingly and only given his cousin's cast-offs to wear, he dreamed of his unlikely escape.<br />Incredibly, though, the escape comes. After a mysterious flurry of letters addressed to Harry and withheld from him by his Uncle and Aunt, Harry finds out on his eleventh birthday that he is a wizard. Visited by an apparent giant called Hagrid, he finds learns a little about his own past and the truth about how his parents died. They were killed at the hands of an evil wizard called Voldemort, who also tried to kill Harry himself. For some strange reason, however, he couldn't and he hasn't been seen since. This attack was the real cause of his strange scar. He also finds out about some of the plans for his future - which include attending Hogwarts, a school for training young witches and wizards. His learning is not restricted to spells, however - he will also be learning about the way wizards live. He never realised, for example, that wizards have their own newspaper (\\"The Daily Prophet\\") and bank (Gringotts). Visiting Gringotts for the first time with Hagrid, his tall friend takes something mysterious from one of the vaults. Harry later finds that there has been an attempted theft at the bank on the same day they visited....<br /><br />The majority of the book is centred on Harry's first year at Hogwarts. The school is made up of four houses, each with its own distinct personality. These houses include Gryffindor (the house Harry's parents belonged to) and Slytherin (the house that spawned practically every wizard that ever went bad). For the first time ever, Harry also makes friends - the very ginger Ron Weasley and the very bossy Hermione Granger. Despite these faults (!!), however, they become very loyal friends to Harry and are genuinely likeable. Among the books other notable characters are Albus Dumbledore (the kind and wise headmaster), Minerva McGonagall (the firm Head of Gryffindor) and the school's groundskeeper Hagrid (a close friend and confidante of Harry's). Naturally, there are some other rather less likeable characters - the sneering Draco Malfoy (a first year from Slytherin house) and Professor Snape, who takes an instant dislike to Harry. Snape, as well as being Head of Slytherin, is also the Potions teacher. However, it is widely known he wants to teach the Defence against the Dark Arts class - currently taught by the permanently petrified Professor Quirrell.<br />First published in 1997, this is first in the hugely popular series of books that has made J.K. Rowling a household name. It's an entertaining and very easily read book - it will certainly be enjoyed by children and also by adults willing to give it a chance.s - the very ginger Ron Weasley and the very bossy Hermione Granger. Despite these faults (!!), however, they become very loyal friends to Harry and are genuinely likeable. Among the books other notable characters are Albus Dumbledore (the kind and wise headmaster), Minerva McGonagall (the firm Head of Gryffindor) and the school's groundskeeper Hagrid (a close friend and confidante of Harry's). Naturally, there are some other rather less likeable characters - the sneering Draco Malfoy (a first year from Slytherin house) and Professor Snape, who takes an instant dislike to Harry. Snape, as well as being Head of Slytherin, is also the Potions teacher. However, it is widely known he wants to teach the Defence against the Dark Arts class - currently taught by the permanently petrified Professor Quirrell. <br />First published in 1997, this is first in the hugely popular series of books that has made J.K. Rowling a household name. It's an entertaining and very easily read book - it will certainly be enjoyed by children and also by adults willing to give it a chance.	2004-03-12
US	48954632	R34IH67VUXPD67	0439420105	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hogwarts : Where Pupils Are Encouraged To Curse	Orphaned as a baby, Harry has spent most of his life being brought up by his muggle Aunt and Uncle. Treated shamefully by them, he had known nothing about his true abilities, or about how his parents really died, until visited by a giant of a man called Hagrid. Harry, the son of a Wizard and a Witch, was a hugely talented, very famous wizard himself - and Hagrid was to take him to Hogwarts. Hogwarts is a prestigious school for training young witches and wizards, and Harry's first year there was covered in \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\". This book, \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\", covers Harry's second year there.<br />The book features most of the characters who turned up in the previous book - Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger also return to Hogwarts and remain Harry's best friends. Draco Malfoy, Harry's arch-nemesis, also returns. Malfoy's distaste for Wizards and Witches with muggle parents seems to have increased over the holidays, and he is even less likeable in this book than in the last. His father Lucius, who sits on the school's Board of Governors, also makes his first appearance. It's easy to see where Draco picked up all his less than endearing qualities, and that Lucius has some rather 'dark' secrets of his own.Naturally, there are some new characters. The new first years at the school include Ron's younger sister, Ginny - who appears to have something of a crush on Harry. While a number of ghosts appeared in \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\", Moaning Myrtle, who haunts one of the school's toilets, makes her debut in this book. There's also been one change to the teaching staff over the holidays - Professor Gilderoy Lockhart has been appointed the new Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher. Harry meets him for the first time in Diagon Alley, and takes an instant dislike to him. Although very famous and popular with witches everywhere, he has a huge ego, plainly loves being famous and is constantly bragging.<br />As the book starts, the end of the holidays is approaching and Harry can't wait for the beginning of term. However he receives a visit from a mysterious house elf called Dobby, who warns Harry he'll be in grave danger if he returns to school. Things take an even more worrying turn when he arrives at Kings Cross - neither himself or Ron can enter Platform Nine and Three Quarters. They do make their own way to Hogwarts - but their mode of transport only gets them in even more trouble. Things go from bad to worse and, before long, Harry starts hearing strange voices around the school that no-one else can hear. Sooner than you can say \\"Expelliarmus\\", the legend of the Chamber of Secrets comes back to life raising disturbing suspicions about our hero.<br />Rowling has produced another excellent story. The fact that much of the wizarding world has already been introduced in \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\" helps this book out greatly. (As a result, it's probably best to read them in order). With this book, she can concentrate a little more on the story - which has quite a strong sense of mystery element about it. As with \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\", it will be enjoyed by children and by adults willing to give it a chance.can't wait for the beginning of term. However he receives a visit from a mysterious house elf called Dobby, who warns Harry he'll be in grave danger if he returns to school. Things take an even more worrying turn when he arrives at Kings Cross - neither himself or Ron can enter Platform Nine and Three Quarters. They do make their own way to Hogwarts - but their mode of transport only gets them in even more trouble. Things go from bad to worse and, before long, Harry starts hearing strange voices around the school that no-one else can hear. Sooner than you can say \\"Expelliarmus\\", the legend of the Chamber of Secrets comes back to life raising disturbing suspicions about our hero. <br />Rowling has produced another excellent story. The fact that much of the wizarding world has already been introduced in \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\" helps this book out greatly. (As a result, it's probably best to read them in order). With this book, she can concentrate a little more on the story - which has quite a strong sense of mystery element about it. As with \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\", it will be enjoyed by children and by adults willing to give it a chance.	2004-03-12
US	48954632	R2H1FJ55XNZ4NZ	0593051408	47628125	The King: Denis Law - the autobiography	Books	4	1	1	N	N	All Hail The King	Born in Aberdeen in early 1940, Denis Law was the youngest child in a brood of seven. Small, scrawny and with a severe squint, he somehow grew up to become one of the greatest soccer players Scotland has ever produced. He is probably best known as a member of the great Manchester United team of the 1960s, where he played alongside, among others, Bobby Charlton and George Best. Law was the first of the three to be crowned European Footballer of the Year. Signed by the legendary Matt Busby from Torino in 1962 for a then-British record ?115,000, he also won two League Championships (64/5 and 66/7) and the F.A. Cup (62/3) with United. He played 55 times for Scotland, and is his country's joint leading scorer with Kenny Dalglish with 30 goals. Unfortunately, he missed the European Cup Final in 1968 through injury.     Law, of course, played for both Manchester clubs. While United signed him from Torino, the Italian club had signed him from Manchester City. Indeed, after being given a free transfer by Tommy Docherty in 1973, he returned to City. Docherty claimed in his own autobiography that he thought 'The King' wasn't worried about how he played and had stopped trying. He decided to give Law a free transfer - Law only found out about this while watching the television in an Aberdeen pub with friends. While Alex Stepney, Law's former team-mate at United, described it as a great injustice and an insult, \\"The King\\" is a little more circumspect - though it is clear how disappointed he was.    The following year, 1974, Law is widely credited with scoring the goal that relegated Docherty and United to the Second Division. United would have been relegated anyway, because of results in other games. How Law felt, however, about what he'd done is as obvious from his writing as it was from the television coverage. He finished his playing career that summer - his last professional match was for Scotland in the World Cup Finals.     I'd certainly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in soccer - even more so if you follow the game in England / Europe. It's a very easily read biography, if a little too diplomatic at times, but Law did more than enough in his career to keep the reader interested. He played for two of Scotland's greatest managers (Shankley at Huddersfield and Busby at United), was one of the first British players to move to Italy (this section of the book is worth its price alone) and played alongside genuine legends such as Kopa, Puskas, di Stefano and Yashin in a 'Rest of the World' selection. At club level, he played alongside George Best - a genius on the pitch and equally as famous for his off-field antics. Best, who played in the NASL with the LA Aztecs, is the only player to merit a full chapter.	2004-02-26
US	48954632	RVPICDHAS88PP	078681859X	506234393	The Amulet of Samarkand, Book 1 (Bartimaeus )	Books	5	3	3	N	N	We're Not in Hogworts Any More, Hedwig	The first part of The Bartimaeus Trilogy, \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\" is set in a mostly recognisable London - admittedly, with a few noticeable changes. The Tower of London is still a feared prison and the Empire (which still exists) is at war with the Czech Republic. Magicians are the ruling class, holding all positions of power, while the non-magical human masses are referred to as commoners. Indeed, the Prime Minister is described at one point as a rather vain magician whose speciality is Charm - though he rarely bothers even with that nowadays. Clearly - ahem - that has no basis in reality at all. These magicians derive their power from their ability to summon and control a variety of demons - for example, afrits, djinn and imps.<br />The book begins with the first summoning of a djinn called Bartimaeus by a magician's apprentice called Nathaniel. Nathaniel orders the Bartimaeus to steal the Amulet of Samarkand from a very powerful magician and minister called Simon Lovelace. One thing leads to another and, sooner than you can say \\"N'gorso the Mighty\\", there's murder, mystery and mayhem - with the added bonus of some young and mysterious human revolutionaries. Needless to say, Lovelace is at the heart of the wrongdoing and the Amulet is clearly at the crux of his dastardly plans. <br />Nathaniel and Bartimaeus are the story's central characters and the focus of the story alternates back and forth between them. As things progress, we learn more about both our heroes - for example, how Nathaniel came to be a magician's apprentice, why he's picking on Simon Lovelace and a little about Bartimaeus' former masters. <br />Stroud has taken an interesting approach - he writes Nathaniel's story (\\"Nathaniel's eyes narrowed\\"), but the djinni tells his own (\\"I sat on the ground cross-legged\\"). It's an approach that works superbly. Bartimaeus, for me, is the star of the show - the parts of the book that focus on him are among the funniest I've read in a long time. Caustic, sardonic, irreverent and hopelessly vain, he spends much of the book hoping to betray his master and plotting his downfall. The footnotes included in his sections also allow him to explain  certain things or wander slightly off-topic. With a film of this book already in the pipeline, I can see fights breaking out in Hollywood for this part. <br />This book has been described as the next Harry Potter - well, they are both about boys and magic, but that's about as far as it goes. While there's no-one in the Harry Potter series as funny as Bartimaeus, there's nobody in this book with the menace of Voldemort. Where Harry attends Hogwart's and has Hermione and Ron, it would appear that Nathaniel has rarely even left his master's house and no friends his own age. Furthermore, while there's barely a flaw in Harry's character, Nathaniel has many. However, \\"The Amulet of Samarkand\\" deserves to be every bit as popular as any book in the Harry Potter series - it's an excellent story that's very well told.	2004-01-26
US	48954632	R3879XZ0JU6V89	0425104974	931461783	Greenwich Killing Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Call In The Irregulars	&quot;Greenwich Killing Time&quot; is Kinky Friedman's first novel, written in 1984 and first published in 1986. His books had been recommended to me by a number of people - and his first novel seemed like the best place to start.  <br />The Kinkster certainly doesn't take the normal approach. He has cast himself as the PI-hero in his books and has used the names of several friends in his stories. As with real life, the book's Kinky is a cat-loving retired country and western performer. In his defence (!!), it seems he also likes dogs, Jameson's, Guinness and cigars.<br />Set in the Greenwich Village area of New York, the book sees Kinky sharing his loft with a cat who refuses to answer the phone. It starts at a high pace, with Kinky's friend Mike McGovern informing him of a neighbour's murder. Not long afterwards, McGovern contacts Kinky again with a little background information on the victim - and with the news that he's just been arrested and charged with the murder himself. As a sleuth with a successful record, Kinky takes it upon himself to clear his friend's name and find the real murderer.<br />Fast-moving, easily read and packed with superbly delivered one-liners, &quot;Greenwich Killing Time&quot; is not what I would call an entirely serious 'whodunnit'. As an author, Kinky was described to me as irreverant - that's probably how I would best describe this book.	2004-01-14
US	48954632	R3QFM8XNYTBHA2	0061040967	373959935	The Last Hero: A Discworld Fable (Discworld Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outstanding	At the end of &quot;Interesting Times&quot;, the last book to feature Cohen the Barbarian and the Silver Horde, the decrepit warriors had conquered the Agatean Empire. Unfortunately, and not very surprisingly, it seems they got a little bored.  Remembering that a hero should die in battle, they have now decided to pick the right enemies and attack Dunmanifestin. To put it another way, a band of very old barbarians led by the world's greatest hero are going to invade the Discworld's Home of the Gods and blow it up. They've even brought along a bard to write the saga of their last, greatest and most glorious assault.<br />Unsurprisingly, word of this latest development has reached the Patrician of Ankh-Morpork. This news has caused no little amount of panic, as the destruction of Dunmanifestin and the Gods will lead to the end of the world. So, as the Gods sit back, throw dice and have some fun, Lord Vetinari sends out a team to try and stop Cohen and his cohorts. Supported by the head wizards of the Unseen University - including the newly appointed Head of Inadvisably Applied Magic, Ponder Stibbons - Rincewind, Leonard of Quirm, Captain Carrot and a certain hairy stowaway take a trip few Ankh-Morporkians have ever taken.<br />While &quot;The Last Hero&quot; may be shorter than most of the Discworld novels, it's still well worth reading. The new \\"villain\\" Evil Harry Dread, The Evil Dark Lord, would be an asset to any future book and Paul Kidby's illustrations are a superb addition. While it may be better to have read a couple of the Discworld books previous to this -just to \\"know\\" the characters a little better -  I'm not sure it would be any great disadvantage if you hadn't. Pratchett's books are simply fantastic, and this matches anything he has written.	2004-01-02
US	48954632	R3HP9MT1T4LCYL	0446612731	498818576	The Black Echo (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Debut for a Great Character	Michael Connelly won the \\"Edgar Award\\" for Best First Novel with \\"The Black Echo\\", which introduces us to LAPD Detective Hieronymous &quot;Harry&quot; Bosch. Bosch had formerly been a member of the LAPD's elite RHD (Robbery Homicide Division), but roughly a year before this book begins he killed a suspect in the `Dollmaker Case'. As a result, Bosch was investigated by IAD (the Internal Affairs Department), suspended for a month and demoted to robbery-homicide team of the Hollywood Division. As it happens, IAD weren't entirely happy with this outcome, and are waiting for their chance to get Bosch out of the police force altogether. Malicious ?  They make the 'real' villains look good. <br />Bosch proves to be an interesting character. With a reputation as being something of a loner, he's a jazz fan with a taste for coffee, beer and cigarettes. He served in Vietnam as a Tunnel Rat, before returning home and joining the Police Force. <br />It's Harry's time as a Tunnel Rat that comes back to haunt him in The Black Echo. The book begins with Harry being called out to Mulholland Dam, where a body's been found in drainage pipe. Dismissed by other officers at the scene as simply another drug user who'd accidentally overdosed - and therefore, not needing any further investigation - Bosch isn't quite so and decides to run with it. Things take a more personal twist when he recognises the corpse as a fellow Tunnel Rat, Billy Meadows. Things start looking more and more like Meadows was murdered - an autopsy seems to indicate he'd been tortured before he died, while a pawn ticket found in Meadows' apartment links him to a major bank heist carried out the previous year. This bank job is officially being investigated by the FBI and, as Bosch believes the men behind the bank job are also behind Meadows' death, he arranges a meeting with Special Agent Eleanor Wish. Harry's intention was to request a sharing of information but he doesn't exactly get what he wants out of the meeting -and things haven't finished going downhill for him.  <br />Connolly's style of writing is excellent - a former Crime Reporter with the LA Times, I would assume there is a great deal of accuracy in his portrayal of a homicide investigation. He has created a very likeable character in Harry Bosch, while his descriptions of the city have left me feeling like I know LA. Definitely worth reading !	2003-12-27
US	48954632	RT0089EQQCBGO	1404355715	137792401	The Clicking of Cuthbert	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A woman is only a woman, but a hefty drive is a slosh	Probably most famous for his Jeeves and Wooster books, P.G. Wodehouse was an avid golfer. 'The Clicking of Cuthbert' was  the first of two books Wodehouse wrote about golf (the other being 'The Heart of a Goof'). It was originally published in the US as &quot;Golf Without Tears&quot; in 1924 - 2 years after the first UK publishing. It's also one of the first books by Wodehouse that I read, back in the days when I did play the game myself. However while I have, just like the Oldest Member, long since retired it's still a book I can pick up and enjoy. <br />Rather than a straightforward novel, the book is a collection of ten short stories. With the exception of the tenth, each story is 'told' by the club's Oldest Member. There is a common theme throughout the stories the Oldest Member tells - how golf is vital to success in every aspect of life. The last story, however, is my favourite one in the book. It's a historical tale, telling of the coming of a strange new religion called Gowf to the country of Oom.<br />I think that this book would appeal more to the golfing community than to the uninitiated. There are certain terms and phrases specific to the game, which mightn't make much sense to a non-golfer and could possibly break the flow of the story a little. Furthermore, some of the terminology associated with the game has changed since the book was written. Clubs are referred to in the book as baffies, niblicks and mashies while, at the time Wodehouse wrote the book, the word bogey meant par. On the other hand, it's still a book written by P.G. Wodehouse - he does have a very distinctive style of writing and certainly appears to have a hugely loyal fanbase. If you've read other books by him and enjoyed them, odds are you'll enjoy this - regardless of your expertise on the golf course. If you haven't read any Wodehouse before, I'd probably suggest starting with a Blandings or a Jeeves novel.	2003-12-09
US	48954632	R3JARRLIXYOAV1	0297843583	364206340	The Official Tour De France: Centennial 1903-2003	Books	5	13	13	N	N	100 Years of the World's Greatest Sporting Event	2003 saw the 100th birthday of the Tour de France, the world's most famous bike race. This book was released at the beginning of the centenary year as part of the race's birthday celebrations.<br /><br />The race was created by a newspaper called L'Auto, the forerunner of today's sports newspaper L'Equipe. The race's organisers worked closely with L'Equipe in the production of this book. Thanks to L'Equipe's involvement, the book had the pick of a huge amount of material dating back to the Tour's inception. The collection of photographs used is incredible and is the main strength of the book. The Tour is a tough enough race today, but being able to see what sort of conditions and equipment the cyclists had to endure in the early days.....well, phrases like 'seeing is believing' and 'every picture tells a thousand stories' could've been formed with these pages in mind. It was also nice being able to finally put a face to some of the famous names - the likes of Coppi, Bobet and Anquetil.<br />Essentially, the book begins in 1903, and has something similar to a chapter for each edition of the race. The level of detail varies from year to year - the years where there was a 'big' story are generally given the luxury of an extra couple of pages. These would include, for example, 1998's Festina Affair, Merckx's and Hinault's first wins (1969 and 1978 respectively), the deaths of Tom Simpson (1967) and Fabio Casartelli (1995) and the completion of the race's first hat-trick by Philippe Thys in 1920. Inevitably, some races are comparatively skimmed over. It would've been nice if, for example, the 1960 race had been given some extended coverage also, when Roger Reviere crashed in the mountains and broke his back.<br />For the most part, the writing centres on the battle for the yellow jersey. L'Auto was responsible for the creation of the famous yellow jersey. In 1919, it arranged for a special jersey to be presented to the race leader so spectators could easily identify him. As the newspaper was printed on yellow paper, they chose yellow as the colour for the jersey. Of course, this would've done no harm to the newspaper sales either.<br />Little is said, however, about the battles for the race's other jerseys. The King of the Mountains (polka dot) jersey was introduced in 1933, while the Sprinter's (green) jersey was introduced 20 years later, in 1953. They are given some coverage in the stats section at the back of the book, but really only mentioned in passing throughout the book. The combined and red jerseys that were formerly a part of the Tour don't even get a mention in the stats section - though the combined jersey, at least, does make an appearance in one or two photographs. These are only minor quibbles, it has to be said. These omissions are understandable, given all that has happened in this race over the years, and that there was always going to be a limited amount of space available ! This is an incredible book, one that should be owned by anyone who is even vaguely interested in sport.y him. As the newspaper was printed on yellow paper, they chose yellow as the colour for the jersey. Of course, this would've done no harm to the newspaper sales either. <br />Little is said, however, about the battles for the race's other jerseys. The King of the Mountains (polka dot) jersey was introduced in 1933, while the Sprinter's (green) jersey was introduced 20 years later, in 1953. They are given some coverage in the stats section at the back of the book, but really only mentioned in passing throughout the book. The combined and red jerseys that were formerly a part of the Tour don't even get a mention in the stats section - though the combined jersey, at least, does make an appearance in one or two photographs. These are only minor quibbles, it has to be said. These omissions are understandable, given all that has happened in this race over the years, and that there was always going to be a limited amount of space available ! This is an incredible book, one that should be owned by anyone who is even vaguely interested in sport.	2003-11-03
US	48954632	R28B029TNR2ENB	0233993622	520912160	Odd Man Out: A Player's Diary	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brian McClair, Superstar !	Born in the small Scottish town of Airdre in late 1963, Brian McClair was a professional soccer player with Manchester United between 1987 and 1998. United are one of the biggest clubs in England - they have dominated the Premiership since its inception in 1993. McClair was one of Sir Alex Ferguson's first signings for the club and proved well worth the 850,000 paid to Celtic for his services. In his first full season at the club, he became the first United player since the legendary George Best to score 20 league goals in one season. <br />McClair was, and remains, hugely popular with the United supporters - some of his popularity possibly stems from the monthly diary he wrote in the 'official' club magazine. His column would've been at least good practice for this book, and quite possibly formed the basis for it. <br />Judging on how he writes, he certainly seems like someone whose company you could enjoy - very sharp and very witty. 'Odd Man Out' is largely a diary of the 1996/97, though it's far from a series of match reports just cobbled together. There's plenty of amusing stories centred on the training ground and away matches - stories about the away matches in the European Champions League were the most interesting for me. He isn't afraid to drift a little further off-topic either. There's a few stories about incidents in earlier seasons and his times with other clubs. While he'll occasionally be happy enough to have a laugh at his own expense (the pie jokes and so forth), it's a little more common for him to take the mickey out of his team-mates. 1996/97 was also McClair's testimonial year, so he takes us on a slight guided tour of the events surrounding that. Also a few family stories are included - his kids' reactions to the crowds at his testimonial match are pretty amusing for example. No doubt they'll thank him heartily during their teenage years when some of the stories are used to tease them in the schoolyard.<br />This is one of my favourite sports-related books, and one I have no qualms about recommending - though, as a lifelong United fan, I may be a little biased. Then again, as the majority of people who'd be interested in this book would also presumably be United supporters, that mightn't matter too much. Unlike some of the books written more recently by ex-United players, there's no criticisms of the manager, nor any scandalous stories and no dressing room confidences betrayed. While fans of rival clubs looking for ammunition might be disappointed about that, people who are looking for an insight into life at a club like United will enjoy it immensely.<br />If you're interested in reading more about the life of a professional soccer player in England, Garry Nelson wrote two books called Left Foot Forward and Left Foot in the Grave. While McClair played at the highest level possible, Nelson spent most of his career in the lower divisions - same profession, but a totally different life.	2003-10-31
US	48954632	R1NUJXESDADKR4	0060013125	591200758	Night Watch (Discworld)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Vimes is Back - In More ways Than One !	Terry Pratchet's twenty-seventh Discworld novel returns again to the world of Ankh-Morpork's City Guard. As usual, in the City Guard books, the central character is His Grace the Duke of Ankh, Commander of the City Watch, Sir Samuel Vimes. Except...well...in this book he isn't quite Sam Vimes...<br />The book is set in late May, with Sam is about to become a father for the first time. The lilac is in bloom and some of the city's most notable - including Sam, Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler, Nobby, and Vetinari - are wearing it in memory of a John Keel. Keel, as it turns out, was something of a mentor to Sam at the beginning of his career. Nobby had never forgotten how Keel had given him his first spoon. Dibbler seemed positively touched that Keel had once eaten one of his pies - without spitting any of it out whatsoever. <br />There are some in the city who don't even know who Keel was, never mind caring about him. The book kicks off with the City Guard hunting a homicidal maniac called Carcer. In the course of chasing him across the roof of the University's library, a huge magical storm strikes and sends both Vimes and Carcer into the past. That's when things start getting awkward. Suspicious that no-one recognises him - he is an important public figure, after all - Sam gives assumes the name 'John Keel'. It's only later that he discovers when he is and that Carcer has killed the real one. So, to ensure his life develops the way it should, he now has to catch Carcer, teach his younger self to be a good copper, survive a revolution and, somehow, eat one of Dibbler's pies. And if everything happens the way he remembers it happening, surely that means he'll have end up in John Keel's grave. Doesn't it ? <br />Just like everything else I've read by Pratchett, this is a great book. Like all of those others, it's easily read, funny, with likeable characters and, at times, a little sad. It's also interesting to meet the 'younger' versions of some of the characters who have appeared in earlier books of the Discworld series. For this reason, I wouldn't necessarily recommend this book as a starting point for someone who hasn't read any Pratchett before. It's not that the book wouldn't be enjoyable - just that the better you know the characters, the more it'll make you smile ! <br />I always feel a bit sorry when I finish a Discworld novel, knowing that I'll have to wait so long for the next one to come out. This one is no different - but just like all the others I know I'll still enjoy it hugely when I re-read it.	2003-10-28
