US	48964504	RLFZTODOINGF6	0373770189	253976191	Feet First	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Step into a fun book	Marc Waterson is the no nonsense vice president of Bellagio Shoes. He is currently overseeing his Cousin Brooke's reality TV wedding, and he wants everything to run smoothly, which will mean lots of publicity for the company. <br /> <br />Jenny Prillaman loves her job as an assistant to Sal, a shoe designer at Bellagio. Sal unfortunately has a passion for alcohol more than sketching right now, so Jenny agrees to step in for the wedding planning.  While Jenny wishes Marc would remember her name, she is both thrilled and distressed at the prospect of working with him - he doesn't know her resume is a sham.  <br /> <br />FEET FIRST is a wild tale centered around a company, a wedding, and of course - shoes. Jenny is trying to be low key while working with Marc, but her sassy side keeps popping up. I will admit that if I had been Jenny, I would have written off Mr. Square Pants Marc early on. But their attraction keeps bubbling to the surface, until soon it's boiling hot. Of course, like some foods, sometimes it gets too hot, and must be cooled down before it can be enjoyed. As Marc and Jenny experience the ups and downs of their relationship, readers will be taken on an entertaining ride. What an enjoyable way to spend time -- reading FEET FIRST! <br /> <br />Other characters in FEET FIRST give it even more comedic fun. There is the bride-to- be, Brooke, who sometimes forgets she is getting married. And there are Jenny's friends who are always ready to offer Jenny advice in how to entice Marc. FEET FIRST will have you chuckling out loud, so don't read this one in public unless you're prepared to explain that it's about...shoes. Yes, after reading FEET FIRST you may be tempted to go buy a new pair. &lt;g> <br /> <br />Step into a funny tale of love set among the shoe-haves and shoe-less. Leanne Banks reminds us again how good she is at creating amusing characters and plots. If FEET FIRST doesn't convince you to look at footwear in a different light, then maybe it's timeto get rid of your tired old shoes. With witty dialogue and entertaining characters, I highly recommend picking up FEET FIRST today. <br /> <br />Patti Fischer for Romance Reviews Today	2005-09-01
US	48964504	RRTDDVKSFP0K9	0373836473	770314035	A Real McCoy (Signature Select)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Another Winning McCoy story!!!	Kathryn \\"Kat\\" Buckingham has the perfect life - a job she enjoys and engaged to a man she loves, It's all shattered one night when her fianc is murdered in her home and Kat is arrested for his murder. She also learns a startling secret - she's adopted and not only has a father, but five brothers. While she struggles with all that's happened to her, it soon becomes apparent that her life is in danger. And the man to protect her is none other than U.S. Marshal Harry Kincaid. <br /> <br />Harry Kincaid has been investigating Kat's fianc for a while. The man was a criminal and didn't deserve the devotion of the beautiful Kat. The night of the murder, Harry quickly moves to protect Kat and will stay with her 24/7 until the real killer is apprehended. But will Harry be able to keep his hands off Kat, despite the smoldering attraction between them? Meanwhile, Harry introduces Kat to her newfound family - those magnificent McCoy men. Will the peril Kat is in draw them closer and heal the wounds of the past? <br /> <br />A REAL MCCOY is a return to the McCoy family series made popular by Tori Carrington several years ago. The McCoy men breathe and live testosterone despite all five brothers now being married. They never knew they had a sister until their dad, Sean McCoy, breaks the news to them. Once they get over the shock, they band together to protect their little sister. Of course, despite the camaraderie amongst them, there's still tension. Why did Sean not tell them his little secret? Will the crime be solved and Kat cleared? How long will Kat and Harry last before they succumb to the hot passion between them? <br /> <br />Tori Carrington has notched another fantastic McCoy tale with A REAL MCCOY. It's fast paced and filled with a gripping whodunit that will keep readers guessing as who the killer is. Kat is immediately likeable and fits in well with the other McCoys. Harry's intensity and feelings for Kat were apparent from the first moment we meet him. If I didn'tknow better, I swear he's a McCoy himself! <br /> <br />Kick off your shoes and grab A REAL MCCOY to read. It's a winner right from the first page and will keep you glued to the end. Kat is sassy, smart and definitely A REAL MCCOY. <br />	2005-04-08
US	48964504	RNVJ4N0RGR21Z	0373712391	526326074	A Family Christmas: North Country Stories (Harlequin Superromance No. 1239)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Don't miss this warm and tender romance!	\\"Wild\\" Rose Robbin has a reputation that is mostly from innuendoes, and less from fact. Rose grew up on the \\"wrong side of the tracks\\" and since she came back to town, she's preferred to keep a low profile. She's discreetly been keeping an eye on the basketball team and it has less to do with the fact that the coach is sexy, although she's noticed that part, than who is on the team. She has a secret that could cause a scandal and rip wide open old wounds. <br /> <br />Coach Evan Grant has noticed Wild Rose at the team's games and practices. He believes he knows why, but doesn't know her well enough to approach her. He's too busy trying to teach and coach in Alouette, as well as raise his seven-year-old daughter Lucy as a single parent. When Lucy meets Rose and is drawn to her, he doesn't hesitate to let Rose into their lives. Rose seems quiet and harmless, and despite what others say, he's drawn to her himself. Day by day, they grow closer and soon, will Evan discover the deep secrets that Rose carries? <br /> <br />A FAMILY CHRISTMAS is an emotional, warm journey to the cold part of Upper Michigan. Rose never had the chances like most of us have had. Her family life was harsh and once she left as an adult, she never thought she'd come back. But here she is, and her past history has reared up and will not let go. Evan didn't know Rose as a child, only as an adult. His reactions to Rose are similar to that of his daughter Lucy - pure and nonjudgmental. As he gets to know Rose, he forces her to open up and like a cocoon, she emerges into a pretty butterfly. <br /> <br />Carrie Alexander has created another winner with A FAMILY CHRISTMAS and one that's enjoyable, emotional and funny, all wrapped into a beautiful story. Rose has appeared in previous North Country Stories as an elusive character, but Rose is now a star of her own story, and one that I will not soon forget. Rose will make you tear up at her heartaches and cheer when she finds her White Knight and falls inlove. <br /> <br />For a wonderfully unforgettable tale that's not to be missed, pick up A FAMILY CHRISTMAS. I cannot wait for the next North Country Stories book. <br />	2004-11-28
US	48964504	R2UQ7TRT24P5AC	0373612877	31582309	Total Exposure	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Thrilling Page Turner from Tori Carrington	Natalie has been treating Dan for burns he'd received several months ago but he's been avoiding her. At the urging of Dan's daughter, Natalie makes a house call at the fire station to see how he's doing and is there when the call about a mudslide comes in. Offering her help, she is suddenly drawn into the drama of a rescue and a frantic dash in a chopper with Dan to the hospital. On the way back, it goes down in a torrential storm, landing Dan and Natalie on a deserted island off the coast of California. <br /> <br />Forced to bunk together for days in an abandoned coast guard station, they discover things about each other that neither knew before. It doesn't take long before their tentative friendship turns to lust. Will it continue once they are rescued? Dan and Natalie are also in a battle for their lives when they discover that they're not alone on the island. Will they discover who it is and get off safely? <br /> <br />TOTAL EXPOSURE is the fourth installment  in Harlequin's Code Red continuity series and Tori Carrington has penned another winner. Right from the start, readers will sense that Natalie and Dan are meant for each other, and as each dramatic scene unfolds in TOTAL EXPOSURE, they grow closer to each other. Both have had sadness in their lives the past couple of years, but it's time to move on, and despite the harrowing experience they're in right now, they learn and prosper from it, and fall in love with each other. <br /> <br />Action packed and a page turner from the start, TOTAL EXPOSURE is filled with emotional dialogue that will tug at a reader's heart. Natalie and Dan are sympathetic characters who are true life and heroic. For an enjoyable and heartwarming story that rocks, pick up TOTAL EXPOSURE by Tori Carrington today.	2004-11-09
US	48964504	ROEANIXHAXWGB	0373791496	69863443	Wicked: Sleeping With Secrets	Books	5	4	4	N	N	WICKED is Sizzling Wicked...	Toledo, Ohio - Present Day <br /> <br />Wicked fantasies do come true. <br /> <br />Dr. Will Sexton has been fantasizing about his gorgeous neighbor, Renae Truesdale, despite the fact that she is apparently off limits.  Heck, even Will should be off limits, since he is dating a hospital resident, Janet, even if he has not hit the sheets with her. So, why is Will thinking so much about Renae? <br /> <br />Renae is also aware of Will, and loves to titillate him by prancing past him in skimpy clothing. The handsome doctor attracts Renae, but she is well aware that they are worlds apart, so she continues to encourage the idea that she is um...involved with someone else. However, that doesn't stop her from toying with him from afar, until one night, he responds. Suddenly the two are kissing and going at it like bacon on a hot skillet. Their lovefest goes on for hours as they find themselves insatiable in bed. <br /> <br />One night turns into several visits, each one more erotically and pleasurable to them. Will and Renae are clearly attracted to each other, but since each thinks the other is \\"tied\\" to someone else, they feel there is no future in it. Then reality rears it's ugly head. Renae is having problems with her roommates, and she must deal with that while pondering where it will all lead with Will. And then Will has to tend to Janet, since what action he takes may affect his future with the hospital. How will they deal with it? Will they get together in the end? <br /> <br />WICKED is wickedly hot. Will and Renae each have secrets they are carrying, hence the series name \\"Sleeping with Secrets.\\" And boy, do they get pleasure out of sleeping with each other. If you are looking for a Blaze-ing story that will knock your socks off with its sensuality, as well as a plot that is witty and fun, then pick up WICKED. Tori Carrington has once again proven they are the masters of creating sizzling hot stories. <br />	2004-08-16
US	48964504	R1KZ6JCZ85ED7R	0373791410	602820875	Indecent: Sleeping With Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Doctor Gets Lucky	Toledo, Ohio - Present Day<br />Colin McKenna has been unlucky in love, but the day Lucky Clayborn walks into his office, he senses his luck is about to change. It is lust at first sight for the psychologist Colin when he spies the sexy Lucky, but does she reciprocate the feelings?<br />Lucky's life has been full of ups and downs. She works dead end jobs to support herself, and doesn't want to get involved with men, except to have sex with them. Colin is not the type of guy she goes for, but he is persistent in pursuing her. One night he shows up at her door and the two connect and burn the sheets. But will it last? <br />Colin cannot explain his attraction to the lovely Lucky, but he knows that he wants her in his life for more than a few hot turns in bed, but can he convince her to change her mind? But first, he has some legal problems to solve, as his professional future is at stake. And he needs to know what makes Lucky tick and break down the wall she puts up.<br />INDECENT is the second book in the \\"Sleeping with Secrets\\" series, and it is another white hot sensual story from the dynamic writing team of Lori and Tony Karayianni aka Tori Carrington.  It is a somewhat emotional tale, as the secrets they each carry seem insurmountable, but Colin and Lucky are able to surmount them and attain happiness together. Readers will enjoy this tale of a couple who are unlucky in love but who find happiness together, and I cannot wait for the next installment of \\"Sleeping with Secrets.\\"	2004-06-15
US	48964504	R2QI5H1RCID7FC	0373836015	448033381	Fallen Angels	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fallen Angels Rises to the Challenge...	One of the first Lori Foster books I ever read was BEGUILED and WANTON. I thoroughly enjoyed reading them and got hooked on Ms. Foster's writing. Now, with her continued success on the best selling lists, Harlequin has rereleased those two, along with a new short story.<br />BEGUILED is the story of Dane Carter and Angel Morris. He knows that she is somehow mixed up in his twin brother's death, and he is determined to find out how and why, and bring her to justice. However, he finds that he is attracted to her, and soon realizes that she is a victim, and a target, which he needs to protect. I loved the character of Dane, as he is one of my all time favorite heroes, as is the story of him and Angel. A very enjoyable tale of love and mistaken identities.<br />WANTON continues with the story of Alec Sharpe, Dane's friend, and Celia Carter, Dane's sister. In the first story you met the two, and instantly noticed the simmering attraction between the two. In WANTON, it boils over into hot, sizzling action. Celia decides she wants to be a PI, just like her brother and his friend, but all she seems to do to Alec is get in the way. He decides to keep an eye on her and boy, does he ever get to. Again, this was another story that ended up my keeper shelf, just like the first one. <br />UNCOVERED is the new story in this book. It is about Harris Black, who we first met in the anthology, MEN OF COURAGE, as the firefighter friend of Ethan. For the first time we are introduced to Clair Caldwell, the secretary for Dane and Alec. Clair and Harris are good friends, but does he really know her when he sees her...in the flesh? There are some risqué pictures found and she immediately recognizes them as being of her, but he doesn't. The story is funny, as he tries to figure out who the shapely woman is in the pictures, and she tries to dissuade him from finding out. <br />As usual, Lori Foster combines wit with sensuality to make a very good story. I have to say that my only complaint is that it was too short. Would've loved a longer story, as I found Harris and Clair's story very entertaining and fun.<br />Even if you have read both BEGUILED and WANTON before, you need to add this to your collection, as these are three of her best written stories. The chances are that you will not see UNCOVERED show up in another book or as a stand alone, and you don't want to miss out on reading it. FALLEN ANGELS would be a great addition to any Lori Foster collection.	2004-02-17
US	48964504	R26L0EAV8B4WHW	0373791178	849305135	Just Between Us . . .   Kiss & Tell	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Great Series for Blaze	I have been faithfully reading the Kiss & Tell series by Tori Carrington. I really got involved into the lives of the characters, feeling like I knew them as well as my friends. <g> It is about a quartet of three women and one man, who met for the first time in LA and became fast friends. They have been together through thick and thin, and the only agreement was that they would not sleep with Jack, the male friend.<BR><BR>JUST BETWEEN US...the final book and features the last two friends, Jack and Mallory. We learn that it didnt take long for the no sex vow to be broken, and that these two have been having a torrid on and off affair for years. Neither wants commitment....or do they? Jack wants more than an occasional one night stand but will he convince Mallory she is his for life? Interwoven within the romance is a bit of a mystery. Mallory is working on a documentary involving a long ago murder mystery, but it is just a background to the romance, and hot bedroom action. It all gets tidied up in the end, and you get to see more of the characters from the first two books.(NIGHT FEVER and FLAVOR OF THE MONTH) It was fast, funny and just the story to warm me up on cold nights.<br />If you like your romance hot and burning the sheets, with a little mystery and lots of romance, then pick up JUST BETWEEN US...	2004-01-11
US	48964504	R3CX46RDGWBDW9	0758206941	138687623	Wildest Dreams	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Uncover Wildest Dreams	I highly recommend WILDEST DREAMS, an anthology from the BRAVA line, known for its BAD BOYS series. Each story in this anthology packs the heat and features a couple we want to see get together, as the couples mesh well.<br />SUITE SECRETS by Janice Maynard features a heroine, Rebecca, who wants to save her career, so she agrees to the outlandish proposal by the owner of a posh and exclusive resort. Once there, she gets lost in fantasy, and loses her heart to him.<br />VOICES CARRY by Morgan Leigh. Ever think a voice is so sexy you just melt? That is how Camelot feels about her boss. He captures her acting out her fantasies, decides to act on it and proceeds to reel her, and her heart, in. <br />CABIN FEVER by LuAnn McLane. Rachel is an author and  has a secret that few people know.  It doesnt take long for the hero to figure out who she is. What he sees intrigues him, and since they are stranded, what better way to pass the time than have a little fun acting out the scenes in one of her books... <br />Why should you purchase this book? If you like your stories packed with heat and lots of romance, you should buy this. If you like to find new and upcoming authors that promise to have a future in the romance publishing industry, get this. All three stories were awesome.  If you loved the BAD BOYS series from Brava, then you will also enjoy WILDEST DREAMS. <br />Overall, this book is too good to pass up just because you have not heard of these authorsbecause you will hear from them again. All three authors proved to be stellar in this anthology and I look forward to more from all three authors. <BR>WILDEST DREAMS is a gem not to be missed	2003-12-29
US	48964504	R3BNJB74TIJHIX	0373790554	567414192	Take Me	Books	4	4	5	N	N	CInderella Meets her Prince Not Quite Charming	If you were looking for a fantasy romance that is sizzling and provocative, then TAKE ME by Cherry Adair would be your choice. You have to get past the outlandish concept of the story...hero and heroine meet one night and he proposes a marriage of convenience to get what he wants and then split that same night. They meet again years later because of her desire to have a baby with him but he doesn't know it is her. My first question to her would be...Why?<BR>But Ms. Adair has a flair for writing that allows the reader to get past the outlandish concepts and create characters that are endearing and a story that keeps you enthralled from page one to the end. The hero, Joshua, was in my mind a hard hero to like, and I had to wonder at Jessica's motives. How could he not know it was not she? Why did she want a baby with a man she really did not know? But the two sizzle in the love scenes and together they make a couple who have the means to work things out that reach an emotional and satisfying end.  Ms Adair has the talent to write books like this.<br />I would call TAKE ME as a cotton candy type of book and a quick read. A fantasy that could not happen in real life but a story that will keep you glued to it. I know I could not put it down.	2003-01-18
US	48964504	R195TW7LKS8KIH	037383568X	339519755	Casey (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 5)	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Another Sizzler from Lori Foster	CASEY by Lori Foster is the final book in the Buckhorn Brothers series originally published back in 2000 by Harlequin Books. This time, Casey gets the big book treatment and what a delight these 290+ pages are.<br />When we last saw Casey Hudson, the son of Sawyer Hudson and the nephew of Morgan, Gabe and Jordan, he was just reaching adulthood facing not only his future, but the wrath of a angry man...the father of Emma Clark, a close friend of his. Readers were left hanging, wondering what happened to Casey and Emma. In CASEY, we find out.<br />The story opens with an expanded version of what happened that night and what transpired for the young Casey and Emma. She left that night, never to be seen again until she shows up in town to visit her sick father. Casey, in the meantime, becomes a successful businessman and still remembers Emma and wonders what happened to her. They meet the first night she is back, and the sparks still fly.<br />Casey wonders why Emma is back in town to see her father, when the man was mean to her. Ultimately he learns the truth. In the meantime, they explore their relationship, only this time as adults. Casey is determined that Emma stay in town this time and does a good job convincing her, both in bed and out of bed. As always, Ms Foster knows how to write a steamy romance that curls your toes and makes you reach for ice water, with characterization that is honest and true. <br />Sometimes sequels, or long awaited stories, do not live up to a reader's expectations. With CASEY, the anticipation was worth it. The words flowed and I hated to put it down. I learned what happened to Casey and the rest of the Buckhorn town folks, including Sawyer and his brothers. I got introduced to new characters. (Loved the Nurse named Lois) A subplot in the book was a romance between Ceily, the waitress seen in the Buckhorn series books, and a male friend of Emma's. It went well with the rest of the story, and the ending of the book helped tie up the loose ends for the characters. It was great seeing the brothers again and their interaction with one another.<br />If you are looking for a steamy romance with a story of families that are close and great characters, then you must read CASEY. The whole Buckhorn Series has been delightful reading for me and I know for others. I can't wait to read the next Lori Foster book.	2003-01-13
US	48964504	R2DX2YSE8JDSMW	0373790694	180486139	Fire and Ice: Legal Briefs (Harlequin Blaze, No 65)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Blaze not to be missed!	FIRE AND ICE by Tori Carrington is exactly what I pictured the Blaze line as being. Sizzling characters. Dialogue that is snappy. Love scenes that are scorchers. If you want to experience Blaze at its best, pick up FIRE AND ICE.<BR>This is one book that made me stay up late to finish, because I did not want to put it down. The writing team of Tori Carrington is fast establishing themselves as one of the hottest authors at Harlequin Books and it shouldn't be long before we see them also published elsewhere. FIRE AND ICE is a masterpiece work of art created by this outstanding husband and wife writing team.<br />The story opens with Tommy \\"Wild Man\\" Brodie on Jena McCade's doorstep. The Hockey star Tommy had met Attorney Jena several months before and had a wild one night stand. He is back for more and she is ready for more. It doesn't take long for them to settle into a pattern of wild sexy nights and days learning about one another. But how long will it last? Both are afraid of commitment and both have issues going on in their life that needs settling. See how they resolve their problems, with lots of lovemaking in between.<BR>Another reason that this book scored with me is that not only did it have the main story (the relationship between the two) but it had secondary plots that kept me interested...from the trial that Jena was preparing for to the office romance.<br />If you are looking for an excellent book, with both sensuality and plot, then you need to read this one.	2002-12-29
US	48964504	R3ISA8XFXBV4AE	0821773178	365571406	True Bliss	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Outstanding Romantic Suspense	Time period: Present day.<BR>Sensuality rating: Hot<BR>Wow! What a gripping, suspenseful-and hot, story. Stella Cameron has delivered again in TRUE BLISS and proves why she is one of the best in Romantic Suspense today. <BR>The story revolves around Bliss Winters and Sebastian Plato, who were teen-age Romeo and Juliet in their hometown. Instead of dying like Shakespeare's characters, these two went on with their lives but never forgot each other, or the love they had for one another. He is now back in Bliss's life and wants to take up where they left off but she is resistant. She does not want to get hurt again, as the past is painful for her, and now could prove deadly. Someone is apparently trying to get rid of her or get her out of Sebastian's life. It is up to them to keep her out of harm's way and to continue to build on a relationship that is electrical hot and sensual and meant to be forever. <br />The two main characters are very compelling and make you want to root for their happiness and future together. The supporting cast is varied and some of them seem strange in their actions and kinky. As you read the story, you wonder...Are they allies or enemies? Is one of them a killer? Find out as the story reaches an explosive and remarkable ending that left me in awe of Ms. Cameron's ability to interweave each story line in the book to show how they interconnect in the end.<BR>I thoroughly enjoyed this story and know readers who enjoy a good hot, romantic suspense will too.	2002-11-18
US	48964504	RW0F3S3BQE3CV	0758204175	313229825	I Brake for Bad Boys	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Something to Keep You Warm on Cold Nights...	This anthology is the second one of the Bad Boy series of stories that Brava is releasing which are hot and sensual romance short stories. Like the first one (I LOVE BAD BOYS), this one features Lori Foster and Janelle Denison, and adds rising star Shannon McKenna. Like the first one, this one was hard to put down. It was great from page one to the end. <br />DRIVE ME WILD is the first one and is by Lori Foster, the hot star of Kensington/Brava Books. It is the last one of a series of stories featuring three girlfriends who had made a pact of asking out the first guy they spotted in the local porn shop shopping for wares that interested them.  Ian Conrad had learned about the pact and wanted to be the one that Erica Lee chose. He was attracted to the standoffish and attractive Erica, but she was afraid of letting a man too close, because of situations from the past.<BR>Ian doesnt know this, but is intent on breaking down her barriers. To achieve this, he agrees to be her sex slave and agrees to any demands she may make. Erica cant believe that she is attracted to the company electrician, but man, do the sparks ever fly. The scenes between the two just sizzle and the love scenes are sparkling hot.<BR>What a fitting end to the Girlfriend Stories, as I enjoyed the whole series immensely.<br />SOMETHING WILDE by Janelle Denison is the first of a series of stories about the Wilde brothers. Eric Wilde is attracted to the comely Jill Richardson, with whom he is currently working on a project with. She is resistant to his advances, but he senses her attraction. He decides to act upon them while he can and embarks on a crusade to woo her. Keep ice close bythis one is hot. Another outstanding story by Janelle Denison.<br />TOUCH ME by Shannon McKenna is another hot, sensual and enjoyable story. It is about Tess Langley, a massage therapist, who is hired by one of her customers to provide services for a party he is throwing at a remote retreat. She learns upon her arrival that there is no party, that Jonah Markham wanted her alone so he can explore the sensual side of Tess. They both had an unsettled childhood, and must both overcome these before they realize that their attraction is love and not just lust. Of the three stories, this was darker, but still, I found it very good, and yes, very hot too.<br />If your idea of bliss on cold winter nights is to sit down with a book with sensuality that sizzles and scorches, then pick up I BRAKE FOR BAD BOYS. All three stories shined for me and make me look with great anticipation for the next book in the BAD BOYS series.	2002-11-12
US	48964504	R2H2GRT0KDIABZ	1575668211	414425774	Cold Day In July	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Steamy Bayou book from Stella Cameron	I read FRENCH QUARTER a couple of years ago and was introduced to Father Cyrus. He now pops up very prominently in COLD DAY IN JULY. He is in the middle of a murder mystery and it seems like he knows more than what he is saying to Marc, the hero. Marc thinks the victim is his sister, but first, they need to find the body to determine that. Reb is the girl that Marc was attracted to years ago and now that he is back, he intends to kindle a relationship.The relationship between the two is sizzling hot and finds them in unusual places in which they explore their attraction. :)<BR><BR><BR>Stella Cameron knows how to weave a suspenseful tale with intriguing characters. It moved very fast, the story did. I must admit I sometimes had to catch up with who is who and what is going on, but it was an enjoyable story. I will also admit that the ending seemed rather abrupt. I would have liked an epilogue that would have tidied up some things. One of which I won't mention here, so as to not give away part of the plot. I am hoping Ms Cameron continues the story sometime soon to tidy up the ending of this.<br />All in all, I enjoyed reading it and look forward to her next book. If you like hot romantic suspense, then read COLD DAY IN JULY.	2002-11-12
US	48964504	R1SKV4QFCHXCHY	0758200862	989218541	Never Too Much	Books	5	16	20	N	N	NEVER TOO MUCH is finally here!	Ooh la la! Ben Badwin, the sinful and sexy black sheep brother of Noah from TOO MUCH TEMPTATION now has his own story. We get to learn more on what makes him tick and most importantly... What kind of woman would Lori Foster create for Ben to fall in love with? <br />NEVER TOO MUCH opens on a sultry night. The sky is restless and so is Ben. He needs a woman, but not just any woman. He wants one who would be interesting and challenging, and suddenly, in the dark of the night, he spots her. His new neighbor, Sierra Murphy.  She intrigues Ben and she is definitely different from other women; especially since she lets him know that she is not interested in him. Ah, but the sultry night turns stormy, and she is forced to rely on him to help her out. He provides her with shelter and food that night and they embark on a relationship that is shaky. He wants her, but she is resistant to a relationship that is more than just friendship.<br />Ben suspects that Sierra is hiding something. Something that scares her and may threaten her life. She won't tell him, but being the stubborn (and macho) man that he is, he is determined to find out what it is. He works on gaining her trust while romancing her and eventually learns what it is. With his help and that of others, her problem is resolved, and they are free to live and love for the rest of their lives.<br />Another part of NEVER TOO MUCH was the secondary romance between Brooke, who is Ben's mother and Kent, Sierra's business partner. It was fun and blended well with the other plot. Also, we saw more of Noah, Grace and Agatha from TOO MUCH TEMPTATION.<br />NEVER TOO MUCH is not heavy on suspense, but does have a touch of uncertainty in parts as to what was going to happen to characters. Certainly there are parts that are funny and warm...trademarks of Lori Foster stories, and of course, her personal brand of sensuality that makes readers come back for more and more of her books. As with many of her stories, grab something to cool you down with when you read this.<br />I truly enjoyed the story and recommend this to others who enjoy a good sensual romance mixed with fun, family and a good plot that with a touch of suspense. Pick up NEVER TOO MUCH as your next book to read.	2002-09-29
US	48964504	R3IUSIR2ZVJFD9	0373259905	709508409	Skin Deep  (Heat)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You Never Know....	I loved this story! It is about friends who suddenly discover they are attracted to one another. They have worked together for years, and supported one another emotionally through heartache and other woes. <BR>One day, the heroine decides to change her looks and personality and it throws the hero for a loop. It makes both of them look at one another differently with hot results. <BR>Some &quot;best friends to lovers&quot; stories can be predictable, but this kept me on my toes and hard for me to put down. I wish this had been longer, perhaps in a Blaze format, as the characters were very entertaining. The love scenes were a scorcher, and the plot different from other stories I have read. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys friends to lovers plus makeover stories like I do.	2002-08-30
US	48964504	RMVTIL07NETMV	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	185	194	N	N	Suspense and Romance Behind Closed Doors	I first read Shannon McKenna when she wrote a novella for the anthology ALL THROUGH THE NIGHT. I was thrilled to learn she was going to have a full-length book and it was going to be in the Brava line. Brava is a new line of books that promise the reader erotic romance stories and currently not only has Shannon McKenna signed up, but others like Lori Foster.<br />BEHIND CLOSED DOORS opens with the hero, Seth Mackey, spying on the heroine, Raine Cameron. He is after the killer of his brother and spying on Raine is one way he believes he is going to achieve this. Unfortunately to his job at hand, he grows attracted to her while watching her and it somewhat gets in his way. It does not take them long to meet and the sparks just electrify between the two. And not much longer for Seth and Raine to get in bed and begin a rather interesting, intense love affair. He doesn't trust her and Raine is secretive to him. But boy, he doesn't let his niggling distrust to stop him from pursuing her into bed. <BR>Raine has a secret agenda of her own. She wants to learn about her father's death and the only way she can is to go undercover in her uncle's business. Seth is hired to do security for her uncle, and when she meets Seth, she is caught between the attraction she feels for him and finishing up her task. Even almost to the end, Seth is not sure if he can trust Raine, but love wins his heart. A man who thought he could not love finds that he can.<br />The relationship between the hero and heroine is very intense, sometimes like a love hate relationship. But they agree in bed very well. ;)  Seth is very much a macho man and an Alpha Hero similar to that of the best selling author Linda Howard's male heroes. No woman can stand a chance, but then, who can resist one as sensual and tough as Seth Mackey. He is very sexual and there is lots of action in bed, but also out. It is not a gory type book,  but it fits the bill as a romantic suspense for me, with much emphasis on the romancepart. Just to warn you though: there is several uses of the f work and other sexual slang terms in the book. It did not bother me, but some readers may not like the use of the words. To me, the usage was necessary and realistically moved the story along.<br />The story flies to a fast and explosive ending that left me satisfied with the end, but wishing the story had not ended. It was that good to me. Ms McKenna created some characters that not only were realistic, but with great sexual tension that throbbed within the pages of the book. I wish I could give it more than five stars, and I am eagerly awaiting the next book by Shannon McKenna. If you enjoy a good contemporary romance/supsense story that is very hot and sensual, then you will enjoy BEHIND CLOSED DOORS by Shannon McKenna.	2002-08-17
US	48964504	R118423S8R9E4F	0446610542	540641208	The Bachelor (The Chandler Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Book One of a Trio of Bachelor Brothers	I have read every single book that Carly Phillips has written and have been waiting eagerly for her first ever single title, THE BACHELOR. Carly knows how to knock them dead with her sensual writing and believable characters. I had already enjoyed reading THE BACHELOR when Kelly Ripa selected it as her book choice for her reading club.<BR>I have one thing to say for Kelly's choice: You picked a good one Kelly!<br />I will admit it started out slow, but this is because Ms Phillips had to set up not only this story, but also the other brother's stories that are coming out. She had to flesh the characters out and get them in place before she got to the meat of this story...the romance between the globe trotting Roman Chandler and the lingerie shop owner Charlotte Bronson.<br />I loved the humor that is in this story. It is not laugh out loud humor, but a reactionary type humor that I like. Although there were a few scenes that had me laughing out loud. It is sensual, with romance being the big emphasis here. Certainly something that Carly Phillips is good at, since she started out writing romances with the Harlequin Temptation and Blaze lines.  And woven throughout the story is the panty robber mystery that kept me wondering who it was. But keep in mind, this is a romance book, not a mystery, so don't expect guts and gory in this book, but good old fashioned love and ultimately, marriage.<br />THE BACHELOR is not a blazing book along the lines of a classic book, but as a romance book it is an excellent book. One that a lover of a good romance can pick up and know they will have a good time reading. I can't wait until the next book about another brother is out. It is definitely on my to be bought list.	2002-08-17
US	48964504	R14XJBMCI3UROU	1843601702	406049163	The Price of Pleasure	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome debut!	I was at Ellora's Cave one day browsing the ebooks there. I came across The Price of Pleasure and it intrigued me. I purchased it and immediately read it. Wow! Great sexy, futuristic story. The heroine is on a mission and meets up with the hero. They embark on a journey that is full of adventure and sensual.<BR> Her style reminds me of Jaid Black, who is considered one of the top authors in that field in electronic books. If you like Jaid Black, you will like Joanna Wylde's stories.<BR>I found the pace of the story very good and even. The characters were well fleshed out and the scenes written. Hard to believe this is Ms. Wylde's first book. She writes like a pro.	2002-08-17
US	48964504	RHVKCLS43NC5V	0758201346	875254247	I Love Bad Boys	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gotta Love Those Bad Boys...and Girls	I LOVE BAD BOYS are three stories of three ladies who are good girls and who want a night of passion with a bad boy. The front cover promises that these are \\"tales of erotic romance.\\"  They are not kidding...all three stories promise to scorch your fingers as you read the book. Although the stories are hot, they are still very much romance stories. The guys in these stories may not be what some would call \\"Bad Boys,\\" but they are to the women who lust after them.<BR><br />Indulge Me by Lori Foster features the second of three female friends from her earlier story, Satisfy Me (in ALL THROUGH THE N IGHT).  Becky Harte wants to keep her side of the bet she and her friends had by entering a Porn shop and propositioning the first man she encounters for a night of wild sex. George Westin secretly knows about the pact and wants to be that man. Both secretly lust after one another, but for various reasons, had not acted upon it. Now each has their chance.  I found the story very good, and hot. <BR><br />Naughty by Night by Janelle Denison has a couple who have known one another since they were teenagers. Chloe Anderson and Gabe Mackenzie were attracted to one another when young, but he felt compelled to resist. Now he is older and back in town, ready to act upon his desires. Chloe is also eager to embark on a brief affair with him to satisfy her fantasies and boy, does she ever have hot fantasies. Another hot story.<BR><BR><br />...And When They Were Bad by Donna Kauffman has a couple who meet for the first time at a vacation resort. Cameron James IV could have any woman he wants at the resort, but he is drawn to Allison Walker, who seems to be getting in over her head. They are both the quintessential good guy and good girl who come to the resort to be bad. They end up with being bad with one another... In my opinion, the hottest story of the three, although all three would rate as hot stories.<BR><br />Overall, I was very satisfied with the three stories. I got what I wanted: romance, hot stories and a happily ever after. I look forward to seeing the three authors continuing to write for the Brava line, as they show they know how to write blazing erotic romance.	2002-08-04
US	48964504	RPWFAHVI55OZF	0373835272	36302254	Once And Again	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Revisit with Sawyer and Morgan Again	The stories of the Buckhorn Brothers, the popular series by Lori Foster from 2000, is being reprinted in advance of the release of the much-anticipated sequel, Casey Hudson's story, called simply CASEY (currently due out in December 2002). First released is ONCE AND AGAIN: SAWYER/ MORGAN and in September will be the release of FOREVER AND ALWAYS: GABE/JORDAN.<BR>When the Buckhorn series first came out, I snapped them up and devoured each story. I hated to see them end because they were superbly written. Lori Foster knows how to pen stories about men that are hunks and good-hearted.  The Buckhorn Brothers are no exception. <br />First up is SAWYER Hudson: He is the eldest brother, the doctor and the patriarch of the family. Honey Malone enters his life with a splash...literally and Sawyer is immediately attracted to her. She has a secret, and Sawyer is determined to find out what it is and if possible, to help her and ends up falling in love with her. Being the head of his family and a responsible man that he is, he is not sure he can promise a future for them as a couple. Ah, but love prevails. :)<BR>In SAWYER you meet the rest of the brothers (plus Casey) and the other citizens of Buckhorn County. In some ways, SAWYER seems too short and would have been fabulous as a longer book, but a great start to the series.<br />MORGAN Hudson is up next. He is the Sheriff of Buckhorn County and looks like the biggest and meanest man you will ever meet. But under his gruff exterior he is a sweetheart, especially when it comes to family and friends. Misty Malone now qualifies, as his brother Sawyer married her sister, and like her sister, came to Buckhorn County with a secret. Morgan finds out and instead of turning him off, he finds it attracts him. Misty was at first a little intimidated by Morgan, but she knows how to stand up for herself and does very well against Morgan. Unknown to Morgan, he has met his match and the love of his life. It was fun watching the big, bad Morgan fall in love and finally admit he could not live without Misty.<br />If you have not read their stories before, then you are in for a treat and very lucky. First of all, you get Sawyer and Morgan in one volume (later to be followed by Gabe and Jordan). Secondly, the cover for ONCE AND AGAIN is much better than the original covers.  Buy both of the reissued covers, and they match when you put them together. I have never seen that before and I love the idea. <br />All of the stories are very warm, humorous, sensual and leave you feeling good, just like many of Ms. Foster's stories. If you have not read the Buckhorn Brother's stories before, or would like to revisit them with the new, matching covers pick up ONCE AND AGAIN: Sawyer/Morgan. I recommend the whole Buckhorn Series.	2002-06-08
US	48964504	R9P45M5AZU3JC	0373259700	112893467	SOMETHING WILD (THE WRONG BED)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Something Good in Something Wild	Did you ever have a fantasy that you wished to try out on your guy...but learn afterwards that you did it with someone else? Well, that is what happens to Penny Halloran in Toni Blake's newest book called SOMETHING WILD.<br />Penny delivers sandwiches to the company that Ryan Pierce works for. Penny has been dating Ryan's boss, Martin, and Martin has asked Penny to marry him. Penny decides she wants to give him her answer by living a fantasy of hers...making love in a limo. <BR>However, the rendezvous note ends up in Ryan's sandwich and he thinks she is making a date with him. He shows up and a slightly tipsy Penny in a dark limo doesn't realize it. Afterwards, she is mortified to realize what she did, but definitely intrigued by Ryan. They get thrown together and begin to learn more about each other, and grow more attracted to one another. Ryan is eager to help Penny live her fantasies and Penny is eager to let Ryan. But in the background is Martin, Ryan's boss and potential future husband of Penny...<BR>Definitely a fun, light and sexy book with very likable characters that one can relate to. <BR>I found the book fast paced and a page-turner. Ms Blake used Penny's fantasies, but not with a heavy hand. It was not \\"sex with props\\" but the props were just a lead in to the love scenes. In the end, she resolved the triangle effectively and happily for everyone.<BR>I thoroughly enjoyed the story and the characters, and hope that she gets to write about the sister, Patti, and see more of Penny and Ryan.<BR>Toni Blake again has proven why she is a fast rising star for Harlequin who deserves a chance to write more books.	2002-03-13
US	48964504	R2CGG7NZ5DP67R	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Do Not Resist This Temptation!	I really enjoyed reading Lori Foster's TOO MUCH TEMPTATION. It's everything that I would want in a book: funny, sexy and an excellent story. Once I picked it up, I could not put it down.<br />The story revolves around Noah Harper and Grace Jenkins. Noah's grandmother is a loving but tyrannical woman who had decided that Noah should marry a respectful woman that Noah doesn't really love. But he respects his grandmother's wishes until one day when Noah catches his fiancee' in a compromising position. They mutually agree to break off the engagement, but keep the reason a secret and agree that it will appear that Noah was the one who broke it.  This angers his grandmother and others, which brings out the protective instincts of Grace. <BR>Grace is his grandmother's assistant and is secretly in love with Noah. She will do anything for him, even when he proposes an outlandish idea...to become his sex slave! Noah did not really mean for her to become his sex slave, just that he wanted some hot and sweaty lovemaking. Grace agrees to it easily, thinking if she can't have Noah forever, she can have him for a short time. From this point on, the book becomes hot and steamy. Lori Foster knows how to write some hot sexy love scenes but maintain the romance for a romance book lover. <BR>Grace is a full figured woman and thinks that no one could love her for her body. But Noah does! He thinks her lush and full body is just perfect for him. Plus, Grace is so agreeable to the sexy escapades he proposes. She also is a perfect foil for him, as she will put her foot down and Noah finds himself going along with her and the two characters work well together, giving off the sparks that make it a great book. Despite the discussion of Grace being a sex slave to Noah, it is only mentioned by the two as a reason to get together. Grace is not really a sex slave at all.<BR>I really enjoyed the story and found it to be fast paced and just enough humor to get me chuckling. It is an enjoyable sexual romp with the humor and romance that should not be missed by readers who like their romance books spicy. Brava to BRAVA for making their first contemporary by Lori Foster. I also cannot wait for the next one in this series by Ms Foster, Ben Badwin's story	2002-02-22
US	48964504	R18BSWC55P41ZP	0373710429	912183736	The Maverick (Harlequin Superromance No. 1042)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Return of The Maverick ...and Old Rumors	Carrie Alexander is known for her sensual romances in the Temptation and Blaze lines. Her foray into Superromance is her first...and a wonderful debut it is. She tempered her ability for comedic scenes a little to show she could write a book that is both serious and heartwarming.  She did not have to temper too much her brand of sensuality, but in comparison to her Temptations, this would be rated warm, rather than hot. The story is a tale of a familiar theme... bad boys and secret babies. How she tells it is different.<br />Sophie Ryan is a deputy sheriff who originally came from the wrong side of town. When she was a teenager, she was deemed unworthy of ever making it, and seemed to prove it when she got pregnant and gave birth to her son Joe. Sophie had never publicity named the father of her son, but the rumors abound.<BR>But she has risen above all the rumors to become a respected citizen and deputy of Treetop, Wyoming...the reader will have to learn the reason and answer of who is Joe's father by reading the book. <BR>The story is heartwarming and seems to come from the author's heart. Carrie Alexander is known for her colorful characters and lively play on words...she continues that in The Maverick. She took the cliches of bad boys and secret babies to a new level that is believable and created a winner of a book. Pick this up and read it and you will see what I mean.	2002-02-18
US	48964504	R1CCOM55V5KT74	1551668874	923301610	Heartbreaker	Books	4	54	54	N	N	Typical older Linda Howard...but GOOD!	HEARTBREAKER was one Linda Howard book I had not read yet and I have been anxiously awaiting its re-release. Although not a stellar written book, it was one that once I got into it, could not put down.<BR><BR>The storyline is this: Michelle Cabot has returned to her now deceased father's rundown ranch to try and salvage it. John Rafferty is her next door neighbor and her nemesis. Each think they know about the other and their opinions are not high of one another. <BR>Michelle is trying to rebuild her life after a failed marriage to an abusive man. To help do this, she wants to make a success of the ranch. Enter John, who thinks she cannot. This is the basis for this book, and one that has been told many times by other authors, but one that Linda Howard can tell well.<BR>Like many of her heroes, John is an alpha male extraordinaire and Michelle is the heroine who seems weak, but is really quite overpowering to the hero and it is fun watching him falling in love with her...hard.<br />I thought the story started out slow, but once I got into reading it, I could not put the book down! It has it all: love, romance, suspense, colorful characters and of course, steamy lovemaking scenes that typify Linda Howard. HEARTBREAKER is not her best work, but if you enjoy her writing as much as I do, not one to miss.<BR><BR>Note: this book goes along with Diamond Bay, Midnight Rainbow and White Lies. Although it is not necessary to have read the other books, the characters from Diamond Bay are mentioned.	2002-02-10
US	48964504	RR3VMGKN3HTXZ	0373790279	647033629	Scent Of A Woman	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Wow!	Scent of a Woman by Jo Leigh is one of the few BLAZES that I have read that have pushed the envelope, so to speak.<BR>The hero (David) and heroine (Susan) meet in a store and both do something they don't normally do...they agree to anonymously meet in a hotel bar. They both know where they are going to end up, but it is something they both crave and need right now. <BR>One interesting concept of this book is that for most of the book, they don't know each other's last names. They want anonymity and they fear rejection if the other knew who they were. <BR>Another aspect of this book is that writer lets her characters explore their fantasies in ways that make this book very erotic and interesting. Pretend for one moment that you were making love with someone who you didn't really know, and you were doing it in ways you had never done it before? <BR>If you have objections to this concept, then this book is not for you. But if you are looking for a hot romance (and this is definitely a romance book) then pick this up. <BR>Because it was different for me, I really enjoyed the book. This book is certainly a head turner in how David and Susan approach making love. I have been recommending this book to friends and have received favorable responses in return after they read it. <BR>Pick it up and find out what we are talking about.	2002-01-27
US	48964504	R1H1ROV6D6R0QO	0451410157	501769629	Sweet Nothings	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not bad!	Sweet Nothings was my first book by Catherine Anderson. Certainly after reading it, it will not be my last. The story held my attention enough to keep me reading it. I found it good, but not good enough to warrant anything more than 4 stars.<br />The storyline revolves around a woman running away from an abusive ex husband. He has apparently been trying to drug her for a reason and has been abusive to a horse that the heroine does not quite trust, but is drawn to save before the horse is killed. She takes it to a rancher who is known as a horse whisperer (a man who breaks in unruly horses). He is suspcious of her from the start, as she does not tell him the truth, but is immediately attracted to her. She cannot understand why he is attracted to her, but eventually she believes his attraction to be real and succumbs to it. <BR>In the background is the threat of her ex husband, and the belief by her that she is mentally unstable. She does not want to have the hero hurt by either. This is what is the suspense of the book... what is the ex husband going to do? Is she losing her mind or is someone trying to frame her? <br />I really enjoyed the hero. He seemed genuine in his attraction to the heroine, even if he had to keep telling her. He did not push her, yet he pursued her gently. The heroine on the other hand seemed to irritate me a little. She was weak and in my mind, never seemed to grow strong until the very end.<BR>This book is worth it just for the hero alone. The story is evenly paced, with just the right amount of suspense and romance to make it in my mind, a good book.	2002-01-26
US	48964504	R2GUKX99GWYK1T	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Slow Start, But Fast Finish	I am confessed Rachel Gibson fan since the moment I read TRULY MADLY YOURS a couple of years ago. She knows how to write about the area I know well, since I live next door to Idaho, the land of Anything Goes in a Small Town. Small town gossip, interesting characters, beautiful countrysides, along with the feeling that anything outside your local area is a foreign country.<br />TRUE CONFESSIONS is funny and witty, just like TRULY MADLY YOURS was. The characters hop and flow through the story very well. Dylan Taber is the sheriff of Gospel Idaho and the father of a small boy. Hope Spencer is a big city girl who breezes into town with the idea of getting away from it all after some stressful situations. They both have secrets from one another.The beginning of each chapter were headlines from tabloids...very excellent touch, since the heroine was a journalist for one of those tabloids. Her ability to look at a person or situation and make it a tabloid story gave me insight in how they look at people differently and bend the truth a little. <BR>My only complaint is the story seemed to drag along at first. But it picked up and built steam, right up to the finish. I wish that the hero and heroine hadn't spent so much time seeming to circle around one another. You knew they had the hots for one another and the reason for not having a relationship did not seem plausible to me. I also wish that Adam's mother was in the story more. Despite her vain and selfish character, she was a hoot. The other characters, from the neighbors across the road to the wrestling midget were one laugh after another. But overall, it was an good story that had me chuckling and wondering what would happen next.<BR>For a book that gives you a laugh and a good romance, pick this one up.	2002-01-14
US	48964504	R1X5UE7NXCVA8N	0373764138	685002037	Billionaire Bachelors: Ryan (The Baby Bank) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Friends to Lovers	Jessie and Ryan have been friends almost their entire lives. Ryan is a widower and rich and successful. Jessie is single and struggling to keep her business afloat. But she wants a baby. She decides to ask her friend Ryan to be the donor for the sperm. He balks at first, but agrees on one condition: that they marry. She is reluctant, but eventually agrees but only if she gets pregnant. She does, and at this point, the story becomes fast paced and races to the inevitable end...they find love and happiness.<BR>It was a good story. Much better than the usual sperm donation and let's get married books out there. Anne Marie Winston knows how to keep a reader immersed in her books, and this did not fail. <BR>The only complaint I have is that the characters themselves seemed incomplete to me. Although their families and lives when they were young are discussed, I did not really feel like I could understand their motives. If Ryan had loved Jessie for so long, why did he not say so earlier?<BR>But this is a minor issue with me and  did not diminish my enjoyment of the book. For a quick read, I recommend this.	2002-01-13
US	48964504	R3DH1Y38K1V2NW	0373790252	685841904	Acting On Impulse (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Scorcher of a Blaze	This is Vicki Lewis Thompson's second Blaze for the new line and she certainly knows how to write them hot. The first glimpse of the heroine, Trudy, was not promising. Her goal was to go to New York City and bed many men, since she did not get a lot of hot sex in her small town. A lot of promiscuous sex can turn me off in a romance book. However, luckily for Trudy and me, her first experience is Linc, and he proves to be her one and only experiment in the game of sexual partners. In between their sexual escapades, the plot, though not a lot to it, kept me reading to see what would happen next.<BR>ACTING ON IMPULSE is full of fantasy scenes for lovers that one could use at home. I did wonder how Trudy could afford all the toys and props she used, but I did not let it bother me in the enjoyment of this book. You will find some of the scenes scorching and very sensual, but they are done very well. If you enjoy a good book with lots of steamy lovemaking and with a good romance plot, you will enjoy this. <BR>I hope Ms. Thompson continues to write for the Blaze line. I believe she has captured the essence of what Blaze books should be like.	2002-01-12
US	48964504	R28PBD24YS43A9	0515132292	832702369	Wild	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Wild about Zane Winston	I have been waiting for Zane Winston's story since the last Winston brother story was out two years ago. I was thrilled to find out that he was going to get a full-length story. I was not disappointed as I enjoyed the story and Zane definitely deserved the longer book, as he is too sexy to contain in a short story.<BR>(Note: pick up THE WINSTON BROTHERS if you have not read about the other brothers. Very good stories.)<BR>Zane Winston was always the Winston heartthrob and he had no interest in falling to the \\"Winston Curse\\" like his brothers. But that was before he got his heart (and body) zapped by one exotic Gypsy. Tamara Tremayne is part of a Gypsy family, but is different from them. She feels beholden to her uncle and aunts, as they raised her. She has known Zane from the family bar and his business, and has felt attracted to him. She wants him to do something for her, so one day she enters his business and utters the three words that change their lives: I want you! <BR>Zane has been attracted to her in the past, but the erotic way she says those words turn him on and he cannot resist her offer. But first, he wants to get to know her and discover what she is really like. They share some hot and steamy scenes...scenes that Lori Foster has written well. I had to fan myself a few times.<BR>Zane finds out that someone is trying to run Tamara out of her business and home. Being a Winston (and a typical Lori Foster hero) he wants to help her and protect her. He enlists the aid of his renegade cousin Joe Winston. (Joe will definitely get your attention. He is fun and hot) <BR>There is not a lot of suspense in who the bad guy was, as I figured it out pretty early on, but this is a Romance book. I prefer the book to be heavy on the romance side, and Lori Foster has delivered very well. I fell for Zane and wished I had a guy like that not only to protect me, but also to cuddle up to. If you like your romance steamy and hot, with a hero who is protective and to die for, then you need to read WILD.<BR>I am already hoping that Lori Foster gets the chance to write about more Winston's, including Joe's story.	2001-12-23
US	48964504	R19RFK839JE0MF	0743439988	150253429	Strangers in the Night	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Reprints are a Blessing	I am a big Linda Howard fan. However, I did not discover her until 2 1/2 years ago. I have almost every one of her books, but not many of her short stories. When I saw that this was coming out, I was very happy.<BR>I was not disappointed in these. All had Linda Howard's trademark Alpha men. The first story, Lake of Dreams, was different than I expected, but it hooked me and made me believe it could really happen.<br />Blue Moon, the second story, featured a sexy Sheriff. He was trying to protect her from someone and when he meets her, he is hooked. Typical Linda Howard male, but what a sexy guy.This story is what I consider the more suspenseful of the three.<br />White Out was my favorite of the three. What would you do if you opened your door during a snowstorm and in plops a stranger at your feet? One that you are attracted to immediately?  Even though the hero spent the first part of the book unconsious, the sparks were there between them. I considered this the more sensual of the three stories. The story was HOT!<br />I am very glad to have had the opportunity to pick up these short stories, despite having to pay hardcover prices. The joy of reading Linda Howard is priceless.	2001-12-16
US	48964504	R2WJUPCM7LSLBP	0373790244	21495275	Playing With Fire (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Race Through the Woods	I have read Carrie Alexander before. She has written for Harlequin Books under the Love &amp; Laughter, Temptation and Duets lines. So I knew she could write them with laughter and steam blended together. I was not disappointed with PLAYING WITH FIRE.<br />The heroine, Lara Gladstone, is a free spirit. Like many of Ms. Alexander's heroines, they are bold and provocative with a touch of mysteriousness surrounding them. <br />She does not want to get tied down to one man. Into her life comes Daniel Savage. He is used to getting his own way and wants Lara. It's up to him to unmask the mysterious Lara, and he does. Both are not looking for a permanent relationship, but they both quickly realize that the feelings they have with one another is something that could last a lifetime. But do they want to? <br />The secondary plot woven into the story revolved around Lara's sister and family. She certainly wanted to make you smack her, as she was self-centered, but at the same time I felt sorry for her. She never got the chance to grow up and mature. The kids were a hoot, even though obnoxious. Part of the problem with the secondary story is that it seemed to go on...and on. I would have preferred a few more scenes with the hero and heroine together. They were a terrific couple. And towards the end, things got blazing hot.<br />Carrie Alexander has proven to me again something I have known before. She is an intelligent and witty writer. Her contribution to Blaze is welcome.	2001-12-16
US	48964504	R267FFH0MA89X4	0373259530	876508119	Nights Before Christmas (Heat)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Something to Keep You Warm On A Cold Night	I really liked THE NIGHTS BEFORE CHRISTMAS. Not necessarily because it was a hot, erotic book, but because it was different from other books out there. Usually the hero is well to do and has a successful career. The hero in this story is a handyman. You need something fixed, Greg will fix it. <BR>Suzanne, the heroine in the story, has something that needs fixing...her heart. She has broken up with her boyfriend and needs a jump-start. Her friend suggests Greg, hinting that he is very good in bed. Suzanne has been secretly attracted to Greg anyway, and the suggestion to have an affair with him proved too hard to resist. Greg, also secretly attracted to her, can't resist either.<BR>The resulting affair is hot and very sensual. The book lives up to the Heat logo for the Temptation line. Along the way, Greg and Suzanne fall in love with another, but don't admit it to each other. The resulting break up and reunion is typical fare, but up until then, this story was fast paced and hard to put down. <BR>Vicki Lewis Thompson is a veteran writer for Harlequin Books, but she is fairly new to me. She is fast becoming an auto buy author for me.<BR>For a hot book to warm you on a cold night, pick up THE NIGHTS BEFORE CHRISTMAS. Just be sure your guy is close by. You may want to try out some handyman techniques on him.	2001-12-15
US	48964504	R3LX3WJULZSYAM	0515131733	800958503	The Winston Brothers	Books	5	84	87	N	N	THREE WINSTON BROTHERS...ONE MORE TO GO!	THE WINSTON BROTHERS is a reissue of three of Lori Foster's most popular short stories. It is being released in anticipation of January's release of WILD, about the fourth, and final, Winston brother. I had previously read all three of the short stories but had to pick this up. Why not?  I had enjoyed the three stories and was thrilled that I could have all three in one book. <br />The first story, TANGLED SHEETS, is Cole Winston's story. He is the eldest and in my opinion, the brother that gets my engine revved up. He is attracted to one shy lady named Sophie. She is also attracted to him, but thinks Cole won't look at her. She pretends to be her (and non-existent) out-going twin. See how Cole finds out the truth and how Sophie finds out he knows. One hot and sensual story to warm your nights.<br />The second story is TANGLED DREAMS. A little different story line for Ms Foster (paranormal aspects) but she still has the same Midas touch of weaving an interesting story about a guy (Chase Winston), a gal (Allison, who appeared briefly in the first story) and ghosts. Very believable and entertaining. Chase's story will tie you up. Literally.<br />Finally, we get Mack's story in TANGLED IMAGES. He is the youngest Winston Brother, but he is no young boy in the game of love and romance. He has agreed to model for a lounge wear advertisement. At first he did not want to do it, but when he meets (or gets reacquainted with) the photographer, Jessica, he is definitely interested. Hot hot hot scenes with Mack posing in the underwear. Ms Foster knows how to write sexual tension, and this is a great example of her ability. <br />You cannot go wrong in picking this up if you are a romance reader.<BR>All three are sensual stories about real guys and ladies who are everyday people. Lori Foster proves why she is the Queen of Short Stories. She knows how to combine characters and words in a short story and make you want more, but never leave you feeling cheated.<br />There is also included a sneak peek at WILD, which is Zane Winston's story. This is a full-length novel and is highly anticipated by Lori Foster fans. To get a sample of what we have in store, pick up THE WINSTON BROTHERS. You will see what other fans love about her writing.	2001-11-28
US	48964504	R3DGA384OHAOAX	0312981023	613674879	Naughty or Nice?	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Four Stories to Keep You Warm	I have been eagerly awaiting this anthology since I heard about it earlier this year. If it was anything like last year's ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS, it was going to be a book to keep me warm. I was not disappointed.<BR>First up is SANTA, BABY by Patricia Ryan. It is about a PI that is hired to lure away the mistress of a married man. The PI reluctantly agreed to this because he was attracted to the heroine, who is the unenlightened mistress.While the writing was excellent, I did have some problem with believing that an intelligent, modern woman could not see the warning signs that her older boyfriend is married. <br />Next was LOVE BYTES. Great story. It is about two coworkers who fantasize about one another secretly. When the heroine gets the chance to \\"make-over\\" the hero, sparks fly between the two. It was entertaining, with a little humor thrown in. The writing was a little uneven, but over all was an excellent story. The only drawback was a little error in the epilogue about a cruise. I am surprised editing did not catch this.<br />The third story was NAUGHTY UNDER THE MISTLETOE. It is about a woman who is about to act on her fantasy about a man. But the man she kisses looks like her man, but is really his twin. The kisses turn hot and they embark on discovering one another. This story was my favorite of the anthology. The part of the story where they are playing billiards and afterwards is a scorcher. <br />The final story is A CHRISTMAS CHARADE. The first three stories were set in modern times. This is set in Regency times. I felt it was out of place compared to the first three, but a hot story nonetheless. It is about a couple who meet, make love and due to unforeseen circumstances do not see one another for several months. The ending love scene is hot.<br />On the whole, this was a good anthology. It did not exceed or disappoint my expectations of NAUGHTY OR NICE? They are, for the most part, well written and stories one can cuddle up with on a cold winter night. (On the other hand, you may want to have your significant other close at hand after reading these hot stories.) I recommend this anthology if you are looking to pick up one for Christmas reading and enjoy a little steam in your books.	2001-11-10
US	48964504	R3HR858RXW18IP	0373259565	492500893	Mr. November (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Burning Love	We first met Josh Marshall in CAUGHT IN THE ACT. He was a cynical womanizer. We saw him again in TREAT HER RIGHT. He still was a woman a night guy, but we began to see a different side to him. Finally, in MR NOVEMBER, he gets his own story and a woman to share the rest of his life with.<br />Amanda Barker is the Firefighter's Calendar Coordinator and she is trying to get Josh's cooperation. After all, he is one hot and sexy firefighter and having him in the calendar will likely increase sales. Josh at first did not want to get involved, but finds himself intrigued by the aloof Amanda. And the only way to get to know her better is to cooperate. So he agrees, but only if Amanda will agree to have dinner with him. After this dinner, he grows more curious and more attracted to her. He needs to discover what her secrets are and try getting to the real Amanda. Slowly he does, and also falls in love with her. But then he needs to convince her that his feelings are real and that they have a life together. Through some heart wrenching scenes, plus some hot ones (and I am not talking fires here) he overcomes her fears and they get their Happily Ever After.<br />Lori Foster did a wonderful job with some tough material. First was making Josh a likable character after his being portrayed as a cynical womanizer in the first two books.  Plus, she wrote Amanda as a character with not one, but two barriers to overcome. Ms. Foster accomplished this in a way that was believable and made the reader root for both lead characters and give a wonderful ending to the MEN TO THE RESCUE series. If you have not read the two previous books in this series, run out and get them. You won't be sorry.	2001-11-08
US	48964504	R39ZE60C77QU0F	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Cherry Adair does it again!	My first book by Cherry Adair was KISS AND TELL. I really enjoyed the story and have been eagerly awaiting the next book from her, HIDE AND SEEK. <BR>It is about Kyle Wright (the brother of the heroine from K&amp;T) and Delanie Eastman. They were lovers several years ago and had not seen one another since then. They meet up in a secluded fortress owned by a suspected drug lord. Delanie is pretending to be the lover of the drug lord. Kyle doesn't know whether to trust her or not. She doesn't trust him either and so does not tell him the real reason she is there.<br />Kyle and Delanie strike sexual sparks together immediately in the story and like KISS AND TELL, it has lots of action. There were times I got a little squeamish, but it was not gory. Just a suspenseful story that you don't know where it will go next. The love scenes are plentiful, and hot, especially the one in the bedroom after Delanie drinks spiked wine.<br />I will admit I preferred KISS AND TELL more, but putting comparisons aside, I admit this is just as good and deserves my 5-star rating. I am looking forward to the next installment about the Wright family. If you are looking for an action packed romance, with hot love scenes, you won't go wrong with this.	2001-10-25
US	48964504	R3O1C7WBXB5AYX	1575668696	311816689	All Through The Night	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Four tales of contemporary erotic romance.	This anthology is described as being &quot;Tales of Erotic Romance.&quot; It has varying degrees of success.<br />STRANGER IN MY BED by Suzanne Forster is about a reclusive woman who gets caught up in a computer game involving a mysterious man. Is he just part of the game-or real? I found the story dark and confusing. It was not really sensual and the story line so-so.<br />NO MERCY by Thea Devine is about a couple who were married when they were younger, but are now divorced. He has come back to town to claim her again. Thus begins the game of cat and mouse. I did not find the heroine very likable. I thought one of her reasons for divorcing the hero made her seem self-centered. The story was sensual, but I did not enjoy the story very much. The heroine should have been made more sympathetic.<br />SATISFY ME by Lori Foster was my favorite in the book. It is about a woman, with two friends, who make a bet regarding a porn shop and its customers. She tells the others her make believe fantasy, not realizing that a male coworker overheard. He is secretly in love with the heroine and will do anything to win her. Even if it means fulfilling her fantasy in a way that will leave you chuckling. The story was definitely sensual and satisfying to me. Ms. Foster knows how to write a great short story. One good reason to buy this anthology is for this enjoyable story. <br />SOMETHING WILD by Shannon McKenna is by a new author for me. It is about a woman who is experiencing financial and love life problems. She is on the road headed towards a casino trying to solve her financial problems. A mysterious man on a motorcycle seems to be following her. They meet and start a steamy sexual relationship with seemingly no future. I found the heroine and hero not to be consistent in what they wanted. He pursued her, caught her, then she dropped him. Then she seemed vulnerable and he got dominating with her. It was a bit of a surprise that they finally got back together in the end. It was agood story, but a little uneven. Definitely the most erotic of the four stories.<br />This anthology is worth it for the stories by Lori Foster and Shannon McKenna. If you are looking to curl up on a cold night with some hot reading, then pick this up.	2001-10-11
US	48964504	R3QM7Y4RZPCVIG	0373271697	399497149	Marrying McCabe (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1099)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another winner from Fiona Brand	Fiona Brand is a New Zealand author that writes for Silhouette Intimate Moments line and she is fast becoming one of my favorite authors. She writes about men that are alphas similar to that of Linda Howard and her latest is no exception.<BR>Ben McCabe used to work for Special Air Service, an elite security team. He is entrusted with guarding the sister of two of his best friends from that team. He figures the sister, Roma Lombard, to be a spoiled rich brat. He soon learns his mistake and also finds himself attracted to her.<BR>Roma Lombard is no wimpy female. Someone is taking shots at her and she knows how to fight back and feels she doesn't need a bodyguard. But like Ben, she has an intense attraction that soon explodes in lust.<BR><BR>Their love scenes sizzle (I would rate this book as highly sensual for a series book) and as a couple, they have that spark that makes you want to root for them to live happily ever after. The action and suspense is gripping. From the moment I picked it up, I could not put it down. I loved this story and cannot wait for the next story from Fiona Brand.	2001-09-03
US	48964504	R1PWNIJJM594IY	0373834691	106832275	Caught In The Act (Men to Rescue)	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Another Great hero from Lori Foster	When we first met Mick Dawson, he was the teenage protector of the heroine in BEGUILED (1999). You could not help but be drawn to him, as he was adult-like then, helping to protect the heroine and manage an apartment building at the tender age of sixteen. I had hoped he would get his own story, and was pleased to learn that it would be a longer length novel, the first ever by Lori Foster.<br />Mick Dawson is now an undercover cop, somewhat a loner, but still a protector. He has been secretly observing a mysterious woman in his old neighborhood. One day he sees the chance to follow her but ends up taking a bullet meant for her in a robbery attempt. To Mick, it looked like the robbers were really trying to kill her. The lady turns out to be Delilah (Del) Piper. She is a mystery writer and also a loner. She thinks she is very capable of taking care of herself and doesn't understand why someone would be after her. She was just an innocent bystander. Her eccentric way of testing out plot devices for her books and interviewing criminals for research purposes couldn't possibly be related to the robbery/shooting. But Mick is so attractive.... So she invites Mick to her home so she can take care of him.<br />Mick looks at the invitation as a way to protect Del and to get to know her better. Once there, the relationship between the two heats up. It is apparent the bad guys think Del knows something, and it is up to Mick and Del to figure out why, before they get to her. In the course of the investigation, Mick has his youthful insecurities come back to haunt him. Can he trust Del? Evidence seems to suggest she knows more than she lets on.  Will Mick find out the truth and get the bad guys? Will these two get together permanently? The action packed ending provides the answers.<br />The main characters are very compelling and likable. The story keeps you enthralled from the beginning and the reader guessing what will happen next. And of course the sizzling relationship betweenMick and Del will give readers of romance what they want. I highly recommend this book if you are looking for a nice mix of suspense, a little humor and hot romance.  You will also get to meet once again characters from BEGUILED and WANTON, and get introduced to two new characters, Zack Grange and Josh Marshall. These men get their own stories in upcoming Temptations (TREAT HER RIGHT and MR. NOVEMBER).	2001-08-24
US	48964504	R2ZKT9CL5WDF58	0312979681	990783417	Hot And Bothered: Four Steamy Tales of Love and Seductionthat Will Leave You...	Books	4	8	9	N	N	You will need ice cubes to read this one...	Hot and Bothered is the title of the newest anthology to hit the bookshelves. It promises a steamy tale of love and seduction by four different authors. After reading it, I can vouch that a couple of the stories are definite scorchers. <BR> First up is Luring Lucy by Lori Foster. I must admit I am a big fan of hers. Reading this story did not disappoint me. The hero, Bram and the heroine, Lucy have known one another for years. When he finds out she is going to a cabin looking for a fling to ward off bad memories, he wants to be the one she has the fling with...and he wants it to last forever. In reading about Bram and Lucy, I envied Lucy. Bram is a lusty guy, but a considerate friend and lover. Warning: this is what is meant by the title Hot and Bothered. You will need to cool yourself down after reading this. Very enjoyable story. Just too bad it was not longer. <BR> <BR> Truth or Dare by Laura Bradley is the second story. The heroine, Shay, is a P.I. hired to investigate suspicious accidents involving bullriders. Luke is the sexy hero who is a bullrider, who is also a suspect. I am not one to read stories involving the rodeo, but the author did a good job of developing the story, including the sexual tension between the couple. Another enjoyable story.<BR><br />The third story, Compromised by Gayle Callen seemed out of place in this anthology. I never really got into the story. While the other three stories took place in modern times, this story did not. The basis of the story is that the couple did not know one another and got caught kissing. Her father forced them to marry. The rest of the story centered on them getting to know one another. Considering the other stories were different in depicting the hero and heroine and the settings, this story seemed old fashioned. I did not enjoy it.<BR><br />Treading Dangerous Waters by Victoria Marquez was the final story. It started out all right, but I could never detect much sexual tension between the hero, James, and the heroine, Sofia. I felt the story seemed stilted at times and the couple had no spark. The couple spent little time together getting to know one another, but we were expected to believe that two people who can be described as \\"cautious\\" could almost instantly fall in love. I did not dislike the story, but felt the premises could have been dealt with better.  <BR> I would give the first two stories a rating of \\"5\\", the third one a \\"2\\" and the last one a \\"3\\".  Based upon the first two stories alone, this anthology is worth buying.	2001-07-08
US	48964504	R3CJ2ZTNXZ75QI	0505524279	592885667	Baby, Oh Baby! (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An enjoyable baby story	I am not much for reading a romance book if a baby is involved, but I had heard good things about this book. I was not disappointed. Baby, Oh Baby was well written and the scenes paced enough between the hero and heroine and the secondary characters, along with the baby, to keep my attention. It did start out slow, but like any good story it grabbed me enough to want to finish it. <BR> I won't go into extensive details about the book, as others have written reviews describing it. But if you enjoy a book that has a touch of comedy but with well written characters with a touch of sensual romance, you will enjoy this one. Don't be put off by the fact that there is a baby in this book. The baby is cute and funny but not overbearing. The author had a surprising ending (for me) as I was not expecting what happened. Read this and see what I mean.	2001-07-08
US	48964504	R3H3OT2U9AO9YX	0373271506	904509903	Warrior's Bride (Silhouette Intimate Moments #1080)	Books	5	44	49	N	N	A Night To Remember	I have not read Nina Bruhns before, but had heard good things about her writing. So I picked this up and learned that this book had previously won a Golden Heart Award. I felt it would be a good read, and I was not disappointed.<BR> It is about a woman recovering from a bad relationship who meets a man in full dress as a warrior at a Powwow. They have a one night stand, and a baby is concieved. He does not learn about the baby until several months later. He is afraid she will give the baby up for adoption, despite her assurances that she will not. He asks her to marry him, for the sake of the child and she reluctantly agrees. Some of the scenes between them are hot, so if you like your romance with a little spice, you will like this.<BR> The story was emotional, but not a tear jerker. The hero and heroine had to deal with their past before they could go on with the future. It was told over several months, allowing each character to grow gradually, not suddenly. It was a enjoyable story and I recommend it. I am now in search of Ms. Bruhns' previous book, Catch Me If You Can.	2001-05-21
US	48964504	RU8UK2I44V8QC	0505523876	735348451	Truly, Madly Viking (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	My first Sandra Hill book	Truly, Madly Viking was my first Sandra Hill book that I have read. It is about a Viking named Jorund from the past who is brought to the modern era America. He meets Maggie, a psychologist, who is fasicinated by this gorgeous Viking, who claims he is from the past. <BR> Jorund is one big, sexy Viking who develops an attraction to the single mother Maggie. They just ooze sexual tension together throughout the book. The first time they make love is hot and funny. You will need a fan for it, believe me! <BR> Jorund throughout most of the book was looking for his brother. I won't give the results away, but suffice to say, everyone lives happily ever after.  I am looking forward to reading more books by Sandra Hill. I really enjoyed Truly, Madly Viking and have recommended it to others.	2001-05-19
US	48964504	R22AKUR6B0GADU	0440235936	856065127	Reinventing Romeo	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Romeo meets Ms. FBI	The story is about a guy dubbed &quot;the world's sexiest bachelor&quot; and the female FBI agent who is assigned to protect him. He has a hit man after him and it is figured the only way to do it, is to put him some place the bad guys will not expect him to be- Cleveland Ohio and a middle-class neighborhood. They pose as a married couple and must act just like their neighbors. <BR> The premise of the story is good. However, I thought it used too many stereotypes of middle class life. Bowling, Bingo, Wrestling, among other things, was written for laughs and used every cliche about them in the book. I felt this overshadowed what the book should have been about...the developing romance between the couple and the danger they were in.  There was little sexual tension between the couple most of the time. I felt the author did not develop the couple well enough. By the time they hit the sheets, I got the impression that the author suddenly realized the book was almost over and she better get them in bed together. I wish this would have been done sooner and letting the after effects of it be dealt with more by the characters. <BR> The ending was very fast paced and well written. It is too bad the book got bogged down in using stereotypes for laughs.	2001-05-19
US	48964504	R3IZKBR4P4ORZ7	0671036564	251404509	Run For Your Life	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A little too long?	I picked up RUN FOR YOUR LIFE expecting it to be a thriller/romance with nonstop action. But it was about a hospital and illegal activities, and no way were the main characters running for their life. I never really got into the romance between the hero and heroine.<BR> All in all, it was not a bad book, just I thought it was a little too long. I felt it could have wrapped up faster than it did.	2001-05-03
US	48964504	R2KEZMMEWMRH3S	0440236185	93651929	Drive Me Wild	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Enjoyable Story	I was looking for quick, light read one day. I picked this up and am not sorry I did. It was just what I was looking for.  <BR> It's about two old childhood friends who meet again. Brent is the bad boy who grew up on the wrong side of the tracks.  Laura is the good girl who grew up with expectations that she would always be the good girl. <BR> Brent is now a famous TV anchor and is lured back to town for a fund-raiser. Laura is still in their hometown, still being the good girl. What people don't know is that she wants to break out of her good girl mode.Brent is not sure what to make of Laura the wanna-be-bad girl. Thus begins their relationship. A steamy one at that. This story is fast paced and alternately you will laugh and cry, as the two struggle to break out of the past and start new lives. They begin to understand what happened in the past and how it shaped their lives. After experiencing the ups and downs of their relationship, the two reunite and of course, live happily ever after. <BR> I am looking forward to any more books by Julie Ortolon, as she appears to have a fresh writing style.	2001-04-29
US	48964504	R27X19K1C178HP	0373259298	167239806	Sex Appeal (Blaze)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Sexy Launch for a new series	I found SEX APPEAL to be a very enjoyable story. I found it to be fast paced and one of those books you hate to see end. Lori Foster continues to show why she is one of the hottest writers in Romance Fiction.<br />The two main characters, Shadow Callahan and Brent Bramwell are two strong persons who like to be in control of their lives and relationships. They have both experienced heartache in the past and find that if they lose control, they will only find disappointment. <br />Shadow owns a shop in a complex owned by Brent. But she doesn't know it yet. He is immediately attracted to her, but is afraid if she knew who he really was, then she might treat him differently. An unknown person suddenly is harassing her and Brent takes steps to protect her. The couple thus begin their relationship. Since both like to be in control, they are like a couple in a game of chess, trying to outdo the other. The thrilling conclusion to this \\"game\\" ends with the couple happily together and the person harassing her exposed.<br />SEX APPEAL is the launch of the HEAT series within the Temptation line. HEAT replaces BLAZE, which was known for being  more steamier and sexier than the other Temptations. HEAT and Lori Foster continue to deliver in this respect. If you like a little spice in your reading along with a good story, then do not hesitate to read this.	2001-04-29
US	48964504	RSOBI4DU40QXW	0373259255	902475381	Seducing Summer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Their lives are altered...	SEDUCING SUMMER is the second book by Toni Blake for Harlequin. She has once again proven that she deserves recognition for her wonderful talent in weaving a story that is hard to put down.<BR> <BR> SEDUCING SUMMER is about a couple, Summer Avery and Brett Ford. She is a career woman with no time for marriage and babies. She doesn't want to be dependent on anyone. He is an up and coming architecture that has the chance for a great career opportunity. They meet and have one night together. But that one night creates a baby. <BR><br />This is where the conflict begins. He wants to get married and is willing to give up his dream. She is unwilling at first. She wants to remain independent and raise the child without a husband. He woos her and finally convinces her that getting married is the right thing to do. Then she learns what he gave up... <BR> Summer Avery, the heroine, was sometimes hard to take. She is not your typical romance book heroine. Some readers might be put off by her attitude. Brett Ford, however, is a Prince Charming in disguise. He is thoughtful, caring, and will do just about anything for Summer and his baby.<BR> <BR> This is an emotional story of two people, who in the end, realize all their dreams can come true. <BR> If you are looking for a different type of \\"she's pregnant\\" story, then I highly recommend that you read SEDUCING SUMMER.	2001-04-03
US	48964504	R3IEAG9K64BJYW	0373441134	510849570	Annie Get Your Guy/ Messing Around with Max	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Double Delight	Lori Foster has delivered again with her March double DUETS. What a treat readers are in for by getting this two in one romantic comedy book.<BR><br />Annie, Get Your Guy and Messing Around With Max are two stories that I have been waiting for since I read Little Miss Innocent? They tell the romantic tales of the Sawyers siblings, Annie and Max. Annie is in love with family friend Guy Donovan and he is attracted to her. But he does not want to jeopardize a family friendship to pursue it. But Annie has other ideas. After she gets Guy to a secluded cabin, the fireworks begin that are a trademark of a Foster book. I hated to see the interlude at the cabin end.<BR><br />Max's story involves a woman-hating dog and the woman (Maddie) who wins not only his heart, but that of the dog. The secondary characters are a delight to read, as they are funny and add to the story. The relationship between Max and Maddie is steamy and endearingly funny, another Foster trademark.<BR><br />If you are looking for a book that is lightheartedly funny and sexy, then pick this one up.	2001-03-19
US	48964504	R2G9EV9B4ZR5OB	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A Great Romantic Suspense!	This book is a definite keeper. From the first page to the last, it grips you. From the danger to the romance between Marnie and Jake you will get hooked on this story. Marnie is a woman who knows what she wants and goes after it and is not afraid to fight. Jake is a fighter and had to learn about love and fighting for the one he loves.<BR> I hated to see the book end. I want to read more about Marnie and Jake. I hope she does books on Marnie's brothers. This is my first book by Cherry Adair, and it will not be my last.	2000-10-30
US	48964504	R31QKPFQWGBUAS	0505523922	196428300	Midnight Fantasies (Wink & a Kiss)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A TIme-travel Romantic Comedy	This time-travel romance was a good read. It is about a woman from modern day who is whisked back 100 years when she puts on a garter belt she finds. She suddenly is the stripper to whom the garter belt belonged to and when she gets to the past, she ends up in the lap of the cowboy of her dreams. He hires her to teach his younger brother the ways of &quot;making love&quot; but finds himself lusting after her himself.<BR>  It is a romantic comedy with stereotyped and bumbling characters. At times the story did &quot;bog down&quot;, but for the most part I read each page with anticipation of what was going to happen next. I loved the two main characters and the sizzling sexual tension between them. She wanted him right off but he resisted her. Her trying to lure him to her bed was funny as he resisted. Finally they got together and  the ... is hot! <BR> The secondary plots were dealt with in a highly comedic way. All total, there were four romances going on and I think this is what bogged the book down. Too much going on as you had to keep track of everything. I also felt the heroine did not deal with her feelings for leaving the present to the past effectively. Overall though, it was a good book.	2000-10-29
US	48964504	R2T8AM9M3HNQPH	0373650647	448682985	Married To The Boss (Maitland Maternity, Book 3)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Another Sizzling book by Lori Foster	Ms Foster is popular Harlequin Temptation author and this is her first time writing a &quot;continuity series&quot; book. She does not disappoint her fans.The characters are well developed and the sex scenes are hot.                                               <br />R.J. Maitland has been accused of being the father of an abandoned child. He knows he is not the father but cannot convince others of it and it is hurting his family's business. He decides to ask Dana Dillinger, his loyal secretary, to marry him for convenience. She agrees, but wants a real marriage including sex. She has been in love with him for years and sees this as a way to fulfill a fantasy. Fot both of them, what happens with that is not what they expected. Also, both have self-image perceptions due to the influence of a parent when they were young. This book subtly helps them overcome this. I loved the interaction between the main characters and I could imagine what they were feeling.At the end, R.J. realized he loves Dana and they both now understand they are really deserving of the love they have.                                                        <br />Even if you have not read the first two books of the Maitland Maternity series, you will not have any trouble understanding what is going on. This book could easily stand on its own, without the other books in the series. It is an excellent read and I highly recommend.	2000-10-09
US	48964504	RRIIIAPZDRZNV	0373258984	249337082	Jordan (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 4)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Jordan the Vet...	...is the final book for the Buckhorn Brothers series. He has seen his  other brothers get married and is not looking to do the same. Then he meets  Georgia (a dancer and single mother) in a bar where she works. True to the  type of person he is, he ends up helping her out. He gets to know her and  her family, and soon, he wants her in his life permanently. She resists  mainly  because of her previous marriage but Jordan breaks down her  barriers. Who can resist this man with the soft voice, kind hands and  someone her kids adore? You won't be able to resist him either! It was an  enjoyable book that left you feeling good, just like books by Lori Foster  generally do. She knows how to write about families and make you care about  her characters. <br />In this book there is a secondary story involving Casey,  the son of Sawyer. The book ends with a cliffhanger that makes you want to  know what happened to him. According to Lori Foster, when it was written  in, there was an expectation that Casey's story would be written. At this  time, Harlequin has not decided on this or not. I hope they do, as Casey is  as kind and handsome as his father and uncles, and his story should be  told. The whole Buckhorn Brothers series was enjoyable and I hope there are  more stories from Lori about Buckhorn, Kentucky.	2000-08-27
US	48964504	R1O2NX456O1492	0373258941	859988534	Gabe (Buckhorn Brothers, Book 3)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Gabe is great!	The Buckhorn brothers by Lori Foster has been an exciting series, and  readers like me have been anxiously awaiting each story of the 4 brothers.  &quot;Gabe&quot; is #3 and the youngest brother. He is described as being a  &quot;heartthrob&quot;. He likes women and they like him. He is also does  not have a regular job, but is a handyman. Don't let this turn you off, as  he is very appealing ,as he is caring and sensitive. One day, Elizabeth  comes to town wanting to interview him for a heroic rescue he did. She  shows little interest in him at first, and that intrigues him. He also  suspects (rightly) that there is more to her interest in writing about  heroic rescues than what she is letting on. They fall in love as he  attempts to get to know her better. Lori Foster knows how to put some humor  in a book without it appearing to be forced. The result is that I smiled as  I read the book. You will too. This is another winner by Lori Foster.	2000-08-13
