US	49038158	R1EGEWO6S56VSL	0451198948	452720251	Warrior's Song  (Medieval)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	To find love where you least expect it...	Chandra de Avenell is all woman. That is, physically she is all woman. Personality wise: she thinks like a man, fights like a man, acts like a man, dresses like a man, talks like a man, has the freedom of a man, dreams like a man, and... need I say more? She would never get married, never learn the ways of a woman, the life of a woman. She would always think of herself as a man.<br />... until her father, Richard, demands that she marries Jerval de Vernon when he (Jerval) saves her from Graelam, who is tried to take over the castle and force Chandra to be his wife. She thought that Jerval was her friend... her comrade. They had shared friendly competitions, laughter and jokes. But now she finds that he thought of her differently all along....<br />Situations arise that make her realize she must fulfill the role of Jerval's wife but keep her independence and her freedom... however, is it possible to achieve both? Love comes in many forms, she soon discovers. She starts depending on him more but doesn't even realize it and when she finally does, it might be too late to save either of them.<br />This is a great book, a true romance!	2001-04-20
US	49038158	R2L6I1EWWR267H	0345387341	968223686	The Warrior's Tale	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A good read	I rate this book with 5 stars in the category of adventure. This tale is filled with magic, aventure, sword fighting and all that good stuff. It's your basic book on good vs. evil. The city Orissa is in grave danger... the Archon has evil powers that could destroy the whole city! So one of Orissa's guard is sent to follow the Archon and to kill him. Oh and did I happen to mention that this guard is made up of all women? That's right! Who else goes on the quest? Well there is an old powerful wizard who decides to go and some pirates who are more after the gold and loot than destroying evil.<br />Much do they know that there is more than the Archon and his evil that they will have to face. They travel in boats and see more of the world than anyone in Orissa. They face betrayal, evil, depression, lack of food, and at the end there is a twist.<br />Romily is their only hope... their last hope. She will have to face things that go beyond all... the death of her beloved friends, she has no support except her Guard; her family does not accept her for who she is and.... she will have to forge into the magic she's always refused and denied in order to save herself and her companions.	2000-12-30
US	49038158	R2LR8Z0419FH5U	0553565214	586895703	Daggerspell (Deverry Series, Book One)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Destiny awaits...	Do you believe in reincarnation and fate? Well this is a story that weaves fate and people together. This story combines betrayal, evil intents, love, danger, magic, and fate.<br />As a girl Jill could see and talk to the Wildfolk. As a girl she could fight like a boy. As a girl she wanted her mother to live. But her mother died and her father returned home. He is Cullyn of  Cerrmor, known throughout the realms as a silver dagger. <br />Jill's destiny awaits her as she grows as well as Rhodry; a handsome prince, her father, and Nevyn who vowed to see an ill wrong... righted.<br />This book is definitely worth reading but I would have rated it a 4.5 because there are 3 stories of interwined fate and it was hard to switch between the stories but extremely informative. The end was both a pleasure and heart wenching to read. It was heart wenching because of how it ended but a pleasure to read because the love that Jill felt was so strong that she gave up her high place in society. The man who she loves returns her love with an honesty that is touching.	2000-12-30
US	49038158	R3UVQ9OE125LOG	0380784149	397344247	Convergence: Book One of The Blending	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Who will survive?	This book is a wonderful read! It is filled with plots, misunderstanding, challenges, conflicting emotions and problems, adventure and a delightful sense of mystery. It's interesting and the way that the characters meet had me smiling. Personally my favorite character is Tamrissa; fire magic. My favorite relationship would have to be Tamrissa and Vallant's. I like their relationship because Vallant wants to be her protector and he wants to win her love so badly but Tamrissa tries to ignore his existence as best she can. The only thing I didn't like was that their relationship goes on and on....<br />The Blending is what many people test for. It consists of 5 elements; fire, water, air, spirit, and earth. The highest of the high with those talents make up a Blending which will compete against the other Blending... who are ill-intentioned. <br />Lorand (earth), Jovvi (spirit), Tamrissa (fire), Vallant (water) and Clarion; later known as Rion (air)- those are some of the highest of the high in their talent. They all have personal problems to cope with, each of them vulnerable in different ways.<br />Soon they all become friendly, if not friends but is that enough to face the challenges that await them? Will they die trying to prove that they are best?<br />One problem with this book: the women who are basically the heroines are extremely beautiful and the heroes are all very handsome and close to perfect in appearances. The people with evil intent are ugly, evil and cruel thoughts swim in their eyes, sleek oily manners and voices, and snotty.	2000-12-30
US	49038158	RGLKHBIEWCMJ5	0886778905	638542947	The Black Swan (Fairy Tale Series, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Interesting read ...	This book followed 'Swan Lake' and without even knowing that, I read on even though it was obvious but I was so intrigued that I happened to forget about that ...<br />Odile keeps watch over the flock ... that is she watches over the pretty maidens that are magically turned into swans during the day. During the night they are their human forms but they're trapped, unfree.<br />Odette is the princess swan and she protects her flock as much as she is able to. She is determined to rid herself and her flock of the horrid spell that makes her and the others trapped, not knowing how or when- only knowing she will ... she has to.<br />The Baron, the magician is the one who cast the spell on these maidens. He has decided to turn all unfaithful women into swans so they could not be unfaithful to any man anymore. But when Odette cries out for release a plan forms in his mind ...<br />When the Baron tells Odette and the flock of the chance for the swan maidens to have their freedom they are dumbfounded but willing to play this game of his ...<br />As the story moves on so does the plot. More is involved with this chance of freedom. The Baron has more in store for the swan maidens than they will ever suspect until his intentions become clear. Odette has to have a young man fall in love with her, accept the fate placed on her currently, being faithful to her and loving her all the same. But ... everyone is scheming and plotting. Will the lovely swan maidens gain their freedom or will they be resigned to be swans forever more???<br />Odile thinks she is safe and soon begins to be more compassionate towards the swans but is she really safe? What does her father, the Baron have in plan for her?	2000-10-23
US	49038158	R187WKRWWH7IYN	0553572636	449664475	Lady of the Trillium	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mikayla begins her unwanted life ...	Mikayla begins her unwanted life as an Archimage when Haramis says that  she's the next Archimage. Mikayla doesn't want it though ... she wants the  life that she's had planned. To marry her best friend, Fiolon and live her  life as a royal princess. <br />Mikayla's resistance makes Haramis' life  harder. She wonders why Mikayla isn't glad for the training she is  receiving; Haramis would have killed for a chance like what she's giving  Mikayla. <br />Mikayla finally sees that Haramis is doing something good ...  but now Mikayla's life is in danger. Will Haramis arrive in time and will  Fiolon remain as loyal and loving as he ever has?<br />This is the first of  the Trillium series I have read I enjoyed it very much. Even though a lot  of reviews have not enjoyed this book I think it's worthwhile and a very  good read!!!	2000-09-04
US	49038158	RLFJLUXY3LTC	0553572636	449664475	Lady of the Trillium	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mikayla begins her unwanted life ...	Mikayla begins her unwanted life as an Archimage when Haramis says that  she's the next Archimage. Mikayla doesn't want it though ... she wants the  life that she's had planned. To marry her best friend, Fiolon and live her  life as a royal princess. <br />Mikayla's resistance makes Haramis' life  harder. She wonders why Mikayla isn't glad for the training she is  receiving; Haramis would have killed for a chance like what she's giving  Mikayla. <br />Mikayla finally sees that Haramis is doing something good ...  but now Mikayla's life is in danger. Will Haramis arrive in time and will  Fiolon remain as loyal and loving as he ever has?<br />This is the first of  the Trillium series I have read I enjoyed it very much. Even though a lot  of reviews have not enjoyed this book I think it's worthwhile and a very  good read!!!	2000-09-04
US	49038158	R26BP0WO8XNXDO	0886772400	56710477	Thendara House (Darkover)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Two different worlds ...	Two different worlds have conflicting problems. One of the major ones is  that the two worlds are trapped on one, together.<br />Two cultures, one is  male-dominated and another is ruled by technology. The cultures continue to  fight for dominance and in the middle of it two women from different  cultures find themselves working together ...<br />Jaelle, now married to the  Terran Peter Haldane, is trying to fit into the life of a Terran. Her life  has changed drastically. She has to eat the same things that Terrans do,  dress and talk like them and also get used to their lifestyle (which is  nothing like her own). Two of her major problems are; one, she can't  understand how the medics, who are men, can be so impersonal about women.  The major issue for her though is ... her husband is supposed to stand up  for her, fight for her, and think for her. What's with that?!?!?!<br />Magda  is living with some Renunicates now, widening the way her mind think and  making new friends. She finds that she can think and speak for herself. She  also finds that some people, men and women alike don't support the  Renunicates and their way of thinking, while others agree with Renunicate  ways.<br />After a time the two women have to put together the information  they learned as well as their differences, combining them and using them  together may be the only way that they will survive ...	2000-08-26
US	49038158	R2RKCBYFW5LEJ8	0812534840	383367351	Harpy Thyme (Xanth, No. 17)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Adventure, fun and laughs!	This is the first Piers Anthony book I have read and it got me hooked!  <br />Gloha is a half goblin and half harpy. She wonders if she'll find a half  goblin half harpy man to love. So she goes to ask the Great Magician.  Instead of giving her an answer the Magician sends her on a wild quest. She  meets new friends and adventure is magically weaved throughout the pages!  In the end she found friendship ... but could it be love? No, how could it  possibly be love if he's her kind of creature???<br />A fun read, full of puns  and adventure!!! Recommended to anyone who likes or loves a nice book to  smile about in the end! Have fun! :-)	2000-08-25
US	49038158	R1AEE63N51RPU6	0812552555	327109008	The Golden Queen	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Full of adventure!!!	If you like adventurous books I recommend this one to you!!! Usually I am  not the most excited fan over Star Wars but I read the Courtship of  Princess Leia and thought that book was nicely written and couldn't put it  down till I was finished!<br />Gallen O'Day is a seasoned fighter, a guide,  and a guard. He longs for adventure and for excitement. He has a widely  known reputation for being a very efficient guard, robbers know his name  and fear him. <br />Maggie Flynn works in an alehouse and thinks Gallen is  handsome and the best guard/guide around. She and Gallen have an odd sort  of relationship. They have an attraction to each other but Gallen doesn't  make any of the moves, thinking Maggie is too young.<br />The adventure for  Gallen starts when two strangers come to the alehouse. A man who wears two  swords, walks and looks like he knows how to fight and it appears he's the  bodyguard of the second stranger.<br />The second stranger is young,  beautiful, petite, and ... perfect. And to top it all off the stranger is  female. Immediately Gallen feels the urge to protect her and thinks he's  fallen in love. But what are two strangers who obviously are different  doing here? The strangers reveal that they want to travel to the ancient  arch called Geata na Chruinne. They need someone to take them there and it  can't be a boy, it has to be a soldier, or someone who knows how to  fight.<br />Gallen is the only one who knows the way and who can fight. So  they make a deal that they would travel there later. That night Gallen has  another job to deal with. He guides and guards a man but unfortunately they  meet robbers on the road. Gallen is awestruck when a sidhe helps him but is  puzzled when the sidhe tells him that he will hold Gallen accountable for  any oaths he makes this day. When Gallen finally returns he finds himself  making an oath that he will help whoever his heart is hot to aid. And his  heart is hot to aid ... the strangers. <br />A creature, a monster that no one  has ever seen the likes of before comes into town and is killed. But the  strangers have seen that kind of monster before, they aren't shocked as the  townspeople are. Orick knows (Gallen's bear friend) because he saw their  faces and he decided to follow the two strangers and take Maggie with  him.<br />When Gallen goes to take the strangers (he finds the woman's name is  Everynne and the bodyguard is Veriasse) to the arch he discovers that they  have the monsters following them. When the arch appears Everynne takes a  key and disappears along with Veriasse. The monsters have a key too and are  about to follow them when Gallen pops out of hiding and takes the key ...  going through the arch taking Maggie and Orick along. They find that they  have been transported to a different world.<br />When they manage to find  Maggie and Veriasse again things become more clear. Everynne is going to  challenge the Golden Queen for her position. She is the last person of a  certain race called Tharrins and if she suceeds she will be the Golden  Queen. The present Queen will have to step down ... Everynne hopes to save  the worlds that are being destroyed by the Queen's people (vanquishers).  <br />But the one who does the fighting is her companion, guard, and friend  Veriasse. He has to battle the Lord Protector and the Lord Protector is not  human but something else that can easily cut a person in half. <br />Who will  win in the end and what about Gallen? Gallen is a seasoned fighter ... is  it possible that he could learn to defeat the monster before it's too late?  Or will they all die and more worlds will be destroyed?<br />What about Maggie  and Gallen? Gallen and Maggie have something special ... all they have to  do is respond to their inner hearts before their feelings of love turn into  feelings of hate ...<br />This book is great!!! It's full of adventure and  around every corner lurks danger and death ... flashes of romance spark,  and this book interwines different ways of thinking and ways of power (both  good and bad) as well as showing peoples good sides as well as their bad  sides ... A fantastic book and the pages seem to magically fit the story  together. A book to read again and again.	2000-08-18
US	49038158	R2O2C4PCF2S8AU	0671793489	14047225	All Around the Town	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you like MH Clark ...	If you like MH Clark's books then I think you will find this to be an awesome read! It's full of suspense and tension, mystery and fear, and  shows how much Laurie's family (especially her sister) cares for her and  how much they sacrifice to cope with Laurie's needs. Also the emotional  turmoil fills the pages with nervous tension and feelings.<br />Laurie Kenyon  was kidnapped at the age of four, right outside her house. Her parents  couldn't believe it, couldn't believe their little girl had been kidnapped.  Laurie's older sister (Sarah) was guilt-filled and blamed herself for  Laurie's disappearance. When hope began to diminish ... A spark of light  flared at the end of an ever dark tunnel. A sighting of Laurie had been  made in a restaurant. The kidnappers feared they would be caught and  dropped Laurie off at a school. When Laurie was returned home her parents  were filled with joy, Sarah was elated. But they found that Laurie was not  who she used to be ...<br />Later they discover that Laurie has developed  multiple personalites. But Laurie herself is not aware of it. The  personalites know each other but Laurie doesn't know that she has different  parts of herself that have seperated completely. She goes back to college  and one of her personalites fall in a crazed love obsession with one of her  professors, Allan Grant.<br />She secretly visits Allan Grant's home and when  he's home she watches him. But afterwards she doesn't remember ... any of  it. That is because her other personalites had taken over. She sees people  that are suppose to help her (shrinks, therapists) but instead of helping  the tension in her just keeps building ...<br />When Allan Grant is found dead  ... it's worse than death. It's murder and the police are on the trail of  the murderer. Signs point to Laurie ...<br />Laurie's sister, Sarah swore she  wouldn't ever defend the people who had comitted the crime ... innocent or  not. But when Laurie is accused all of her promises were forgotten and she  rushs to her little sister's aid- Laurie's attorney.<br />Meanwhile the  kidnappers hear about Laurie's trial and fearful that she might remember  something they give her reminders anonomously that frighten her. One of the  kidnappers has an obsession with her ... enough of an obession he risks  getting caught to find what she remembers and just to see her again  ...<br />Enters Justin Donnelly, a psychiatrist to help with Laurie's memories  and he also offers support to Sarah. He is interested in Laurie's case and  strives to bring back Laurie's memories but time is running short ...<br />Who  will get to Laurie first? Her desperate kidnappers, the police or her  caring sister? Will she spend a long part of her life (if not all of it)  behind bars, regarded with suspicion or will she be freed to discover her  true self?<br />Will distruction for Sarah and Laurie be their destiny or  will romance spark to life? Fate plays its hands and if they don't like the  result then that will be too bad ... or too late to change the  future.<br />What about the murderer of Allan Grant? All signs point to her  but there may other clues that everyone has overlooked ... if they don't  find out who the murderer was the person may walk free ... But if it's not  Laurie then who is it?<br />The end has several twists that leave you  speechless (at least they did in my case!) and I hope you enjoy this book  as much as I did!forgotten and she  rushs to her little sister's aid- Laurie's attorney.<br />Meanwhile the  kidnappers hear about Laurie's trial and fearful that she might remember  something they give her reminders anonomously that frighten her. One of the  kidnappers has an obsession with her ... enough of an obession he risks  getting caught to find what she remembers and just to see her again  ...<br />Enters Justin Donnelly, a psychiatrist to help with Laurie's memories  and he also offers support to Sarah. He is interested in Laurie's case and  strives to bring back Laurie's memories but time is running short ...<br />Who  will get to Laurie first? Her desperate kidnappers, the police or her  caring sister? Will she spend a long part of her life (if not all of it)  behind bars, regarded with suspicion or will she be freed to discover her  true self? <br />Will distruction for Sarah and Laurie be their destiny or  will romance spark to life? Fate plays its hands and if they don't like the  result then that will be too bad ... or too late to change the  future.<br />What about the murderer of Allan Grant? All signs point to her  but there may other clues that everyone has overlooked ... if they don't  find out who the murderer was the person may walk free ... But if it's not  Laurie then who is it?<br />The end has several twists that leave you  speechless (at least they did in my case!) and I hope you enjoy this book  as much as I did!	2000-08-18
US	49038158	R2UFQK525OOJEV	0312854315	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Adventure to the max!	This book is the fourth book of The Wheel of Time series and it's a great  book!<br />In the books before this one Rand, Perrin, and Mat live in Two  Rivers along with Egwene and Nynaeve. When an Aes Sedai comes, Moiraine and  her Warder Lan, their lives change.<br />Rand is the Dragon Reborn also known  as Lewis Therrin. He denies it, doesn't want to accept that he is the  Dragon Reborn who must someday fight the Dark One. He travels to the Aiel  Wasteland fulfills the sayings ... fate has decided that he is the Dragon  Reborn and even as Rand tries to run from it he just ends up proving he is  the Dragon Reborn. He is now in the Aiel Wasteland and awaits for the  leaders to proclaim him the Dragon Reborn. They will follow him because the  proficies say that he will unite the clans and lead them but also one of  the sayings is that he will destroy them. Some of the Aiel are uncertain  what to think about that and others decide to go against him. What to do?  Who to trust or turn to? Rand doesn't know anymore ... there isn't anyone  he can trust ... maybe Ewgene but ever since she became Aes Sedai she acts  just like one and that is just what he's trying to get away from. The Aes  Sedai who try to keep him on a leash.<br />Perrin goes back to Two Rivers,  hearing that White Cloaks have been poking around. He finds things uneasy  and full of tension. He has to put aside his jealousy ... what he finds is  Lord Luc who seems to have an interest in his companion and friend (more  than friend) Faile. He also finds White Cloaks who have overstepped their  authority. They have taken Two Rivers people prisoners and they are  guarded. Perrin takes the risks involved and decided to rescue them. Faile  supports his idea and even though she is suppose to stay out of harms way  she goes where he goes, watching his back. After the prisoners are rescued  Perrin says it's time to hunt Trollocs. But more is in store for him than  he would have believed and it's something he wouldn'tever want to happen,  maybe Trollocs are smarter than he has thought ... the price is too high to  pay ... And he soon finds that out ...<br />Meanwhile the Tower is splitting.  It's been rumored that there are Aes Sedai who serve the Dark One. The Ajah  (Aes Sedai) are categoried in colors, the colors mean different things  (like Brown Ajah seeks knowledge and Gray Ajah seek harmony and peace, and  so on.). Well it's been rumored there are Black Ajah in the Tower who serve  the Dark One and all Aes Sedai swear that that is not true. But  unfortunately it is ... they act like any other Aes Sedai and wear are  Ajah, wearing a color (not black) so they fit in perfectly. So who is it  that is splitting the Tower? The enemy is from the inside and there isn't  any knowledge as to who it is ... until it's too late. The Black Ajah have  started to play their hand in the game ... Do they have a winning hand and  if they do what will that bring?<br />Basically about bad vs. good it is  filled with adventure and mystery, fear and danger, a little romance mixed  in it, triumph and happiness all make a great story and this has it all!	2000-08-18
US	49038158	R3W4009AU71KON	0373243286	48776421	Irish Rebel (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1328) (Irish Hearts)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Definitely 5 stars!!!	Irish Rebel is the sequel to another of Nora Robert's books; Irish Hearts.  Dee and Travis now have a family. Their oldest daughter is Keeley ... and  that's where this story starts. Keeley Grant; beautiful, smart, talented,  privileged, and cold. She is known as the &quot;ice princess&quot; and  doesn't care. <br />She has everything she could ever want ... or not want.  Money, beauty, and a handsome man who worships the ground she walks on,  Chad. Keeley doesn't care for any of that. <br />What Keeley does care for is  her school, her family, her father's horses (or any horse for that matter)  and children. She is intelligent and beautiful ... and doesn't have time  for men. Any man.<br />Brian Donnelly has next to nothing. Besides a magical  gift for training horses ... and making them winners. He doesn't own much  because he always has moved around, never staying in one place. He loves  horses and is elated when he finds he has a job at Royal Meadows, well  known as the place where winners are created. He thinks he has everything  ...<br />Keeley and Brian have an unexplainable attraction to each other,  unwanted and anything but unnoticed. Brian doesn't know why. He thinks  Keeley is privileged, cool, and one who sits around doing nothing. Keeley  thinks Brian is arrogant, a snob, and anything other than the sort of man  she'd ever be attracted to. But as they start to spend time getting to know  each other better, they can't avoid the other since they both work at the  same place, they realize the truth about each other and come to respect and  appeaciate it. Keeley's &quot;ice princess&quot; routine melts when Brian  is around while Brian finds himself getting fenced in ...<br />Brian has never  stayed in one place ... will Keeley and her love be enough to keep him hers  ... or will he move on?<br />I thought this book was great! It wasn't as fast  moving as Irish Hearts (in my opinion) but it was a definite page turner  and it takes you away to Royal Meadowsand their triumphs, problems, love,  happiness, and choices ...  It was a disappointment when I found out the  book had ended!	2000-08-15
US	49038158	R1H4J9H2GRT9F7	0886775795	648550947	Mind-Speakers' Call (Ghatti's Tale, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Truth Revealed ...	I thought this book was better than the first, the first got to be a page  turner when the ending was near ... and you might need to read the first  one to understand this book better ...<br />Doyce can't accept the fact that  her stepson, Vesey, was a Gleaner, a mindstealer and more, he was  responsible for her friend and lovers death, Oriel. Doyce can't accept it  but she has to. Time is running short.<br />The ghatti seek the Truth. Their  Bondmates help to find the truth. Disguised problems are happening across  the border. Trade is slowing noticably and Doyce is positioned in a group  as a recorder. She hasn't mindspoken with her Bondmate, Khar'pern, because  of her grief and withdrawal. But she finally mindspeaks to her beloved  Bondmate when her mind starts to clear ...<br />The group inculdes Jenret and  Rawn. Jenret has been there for her before and they were forced to work  together (in the first book) so they have a wary kind of relationship. When  the leader of the group dies she is forced to be Special Envoy, the leader  of the group. She is opposed to it as much as Aelbert, who believes he  should be the leader. But she has no choice and takes the lead. <br />Across  the border they find that things aren't as they seem. Someone wants to rule  the court, now that the Queen has died and not left an heir, and wants the  ghatti along with their Bondmates out of the way because the ghatti seek  truth and truth would be unfortunate for the person who wants to  rule.<br />Romance, or what the others think of as romance, sparks fly between  Arras (a protector of the throne) and Doyce. Jenret's emotions become more  clear now that jealousy has began to flow through his thoughts. <br />The  complications are more intricate and delicate then they had realized and  soon they find themselves caught in what they didn't want, Danger. They  came to open the trade between the borders and find themselves seeking the  truth for the rightful heir of the throne. Danger lurks where they least  expect it and death is chasing them. If they slow down it will swallow them  up and then what?<br />Will Doyce be ready for the truth when it's revealed?  After what she had to go through will she be strong enough to deal with the  new problems and unwanted discoveries about others ... and  herself?<br />Jenret's jealousy heightens ... will he speak up or will his  love go forever silenced?<br />A great book, full of mystery and adventure,  along with romance and secrets. Surprises flow with the pages ... hints of  something and then your own conclusion ... when it's cleared it may not be  what you thought.	2000-08-15
US	49038158	RVI3MU3Q24UXX	0886775299	709897628	Rediscovery: A Novel of Darkover	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A good book but ...	I thought this was a good book and the characters were well portrayed but  I liked the second part better. <br />The ship with all of it's people have  crashed and soon they are rediscovering Darkover and making their own  connections. Several of the Terrans have a little laran in them while the  others seem to have none. What does that mean? Also things are happening  between the Terrans and the Darkovans that they don't especially want  ...<br />I think anyone would enjoy this book and if you get stuck just keep  on going because it definitley has it's good parts.	2000-08-09
US	49038158	RSRXY16KBC806	0886772397	759043118	HawkMistress! (Darkover) (Vol 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Full of imagination!!!	I loved reading this book!!! The heroine doesn't like being a  &quot;lady&quot;. She loves working with the animals and helping with  outside things rather than being inside. Her &quot;gift&quot; is a rare  kind of laran, to feel the emotions of animals and what they are thinking.  <br />She travels in the disguise of a boy and everyone believes that's just  what she is. A boy with a very special talent. Helping a group of men with  some birds, a kind of bird where if you link your mind with it you can see  through it's eyes, she learns that a war is starting to take effect.  Adventure is teeming everywhere and she enters places that no other girl,  or woman could enter. But her gift isn't always good. Sometimes she feels  too much and sometimes she could almost loose control on what's human ...  and what's animal.<br />This is one of my favorite books in the MZB series and  it's a wonderful read.	2000-08-09
US	49038158	R2Q95DJBK7GS61	0886776074	190495470	Star of Danger (Darkover)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Full of Adventure!!!	I don't think this was MZB's best book but it was definitely a great book  to read!!! <br />Larry, a Terran ... Kennard, a Darkover native ... They meet  when Larry gets into a fight and soon become friends. Larry's father does  not exactly approve of their friendship but when Kennard invites Larry to  go with him to his estates Larry's father is forced to agree, not wanting  to insult them. But more is in for Kennard and Larry when they are forced  to work together ... to survive. An enemy has been attacking villages on  Darkover and the two of them are separated from those they know. While the  tension to prove who's best between them builds soon they have to put that  all aside and work together, combining ideas and their own technology  together so they can get back to their families ... alive. <br />A great book  for anyone who loves reading about adventure and defeating the bad guys!	2000-08-08
US	49038158	RGD28FJEU4TJQ	0380775832	123124894	Winter Fire (Only Series)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Love lives on	A great book! Full of emotion and tenisons that happen in the real world, Lowell's book is believable and full of life! <br />Case Maxwell swore to  himself that he wouldn't love anything that could die. He told himself it  wasn't worth the agonizing pain that it caused him. He also swore that he  would see every last Culpepper in hell ...<br />Sarah Kennedy heals hawks and  then releases them to fly free and wild ... as she herself wishes she could  do. She also heals anything that's hurt ... inculding people. Her fiercest  desire is to find the spanish silver that her dead husband had known about  so she can send her brother, Connor to get an education. <br />The Culpeppers  are deadly, cunning, greedy, and don't care what they kill or torture as  long as they can get what they want. Their aim- the spanish silver.<br />By  chance ... or is it? Case is wounded and ends up in Sarah's care. She helps  to heal his flesh wounds and he slowly heals her wounds that don't show,  the inside bruises that have darkened her life. Passion and desire flare  throughout the story. Lust is one thing but love, another. Sarah knows Case  has wounds that her hands could never be able heal. Case swore he wouldn't  love again, their promises to themselves and their actual decisions will  change their future together ... only they can decide.	2000-08-08
US	49038158	R2OZN5OBZMNCKL	0553213180	389889394	Anne's House of Dreams (Anne of Green Gables, No. 5)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A five star read!	I have all of the Anne of Green Gable series and continue to read them  over again, delighting in each new discovery that I missed when reading it  before. <br />Anne's House of Dreams starts when Gilbert Blythe, who has loved  Anne ever since they were children, becomes the doctor he has set his  ambitions for. Anne had discovered that she was in love with Gilbert and so  they are happily married and off to Four Winds Harbor where they start  their new life, together.<br />Finding beauty and adventure wherever Anne  turns she is forever making friends and finding new discoveries. Miss  Cornelia becomes a friend as does the forever-interesting Captain Jim. <br />A  mysterious young woman capitivates Anne's curious attention however and she  finds that the young woman's name is Leslie. She cannot forget the  beautiful but sad creature who seems to be hiding something. Enters Owen  Ford and by chance mystery starts to be slowly revealed ...<br />This book was  (and still is!) a fantasic read and I recommend it to anyone! As well as  any other &quot;Anne&quot; books!	2000-08-08
US	49038158	R2Q8SLKGPOXC0C	0380767619	917080400	Remember Summer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Passion Undenied!	This is the first of EL's books that I have read and I truly enjoyed it.  From some of the over reviews I read several people thought this book was  boring but I just couldn't put this book down! Cord and Raine's desires  reflect on what they want and cannnot have, the development of the  characters make them seem real and their situations of love and despair are  deeply realistic. The work that they have may not be common for this  society but the feelings and passion they feel and are forced to try and  deal with are very real and believable.	2000-08-06
US	49038158	R1RN03N32Z97AS	0886777437	977495914	The Shadow Matrix (Darkover)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Filled with adventure!!!	The Shadow Matrix ... the title relates to a shadow matrix that is  emblazed on Marguerida Alton's hand. It is something she got from visiting  the overworld. Her sweetheart, Mikhail goes with her on a journey that is  unreal ... they go back to the past. But oh it is real! They could change  the future (their own time) by changing something where they are now.  Asharra is trying to find something ... the one who overshadowed her when  she was a child and if Asharra finds Marguerida then Marguerida will die if  she can't escape in time. Meanwhile some of the Towers are in big trouble  as is the rest of the planet and if Marguerida and Mikhail don't do  anything it will destroy everything they know and wipe away everything  they've created together ...	2000-08-06
US	49038158	R1W7LHMXBDV1Q5	0553280511	804782425	The Blue Castle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A real page-turner!!!	I have read all the &quot;Anne&quot; and &quot;Emily&quot; series and a  few more of LMM's books and I enjoy reading them over and over. They are  adventurous yet peaceful. The Blue Castle is wonderful! <br />Valancy gets  tired of having to deal with her mother and stuffy relations. Her relatives  complain about how she isn't this or that and isn't married. She's  considered an old maid around 30. So she basically tells them to stuff it!  with little digs of her own and is out to make the most of the world!  Working for Roaring Abel she meets Barney Snaith. Valancy thinks he would  be such fun to be around and as they spend more and more time together,  getting to know one another for what they truly are they find they like  what they've found. Valancy finds out something terrible for her but would  have been considered good if she wasn't in the spot she found herself stuck  in. It's up to Barney to save the day ... and themselves.<br />This is a good  book for all ages, smoothly written and fantastic!!!	2000-08-05
US	49038158	R1GPSQ7LCWFWC2	0380781271	835446534	Mage Heart	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Romance and suspense!	This book is filled with romance when Dion meets the beautiful Andre. Dion can't make up her mind about this gorgeous hunk but others would be  delighted to take her place. Suspense filled to see what happens at the  end. This book was a great read and filled with one surprise after another!  People who like mysterious circumstances and/or romance will find this book  worthwhile, I think.	2000-08-05
US	49038158	R2LW8SPKBZ3JRY	0380794284	467932059	Aramaya	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting but not a page turner	Dion is searching for her niece Dally and gets the help of a prince. Later she has a lasting love affair with him but is still in love with Shad. She  is confused and doesn't know what to do to get over Shad. Anger, love, and  tenderness still exist for him as well as the desire to get back together  with him. Meanwhile Bedazzer/Andre still exists and when Dion finds out  about the powerful necromancers that are experimenting fate may play a hand  in bringing them together for one last time ...	2000-08-05
US	49038158	R2JDCOUYQ22BJ9	0399143874	581812266	Homeport	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Miranda's Affairs	Dr. Miranda Jones loves her work. She is one of the Joneses from Jones Point. Her work involves artwork ... not prints or copies but the original  artwork. Arriving home after a lecture she is deeply disturbed when someone  steals her bags and slashes her tires. She tries to move on, to put it all  behind her and throws herself into her work ... but that isn't hard when  she is asked to verify the authenticity of a bronze. She does and revels in  the fact that it's the orginial. But a strange thing happens. Someone else  does tests to see if the bronze is real and it leaks out that it is a fake.  Miranda's reputation comes into question and she denies that it's a fake.  Her brother, Andrew stands by her as she has stood by him time and time  again. One day she goes to his office and meets the smooth, dark, handsome  Ryan Boldari from Boldari Gallery. Right from the moment they meet unwanted  sparks fly. Later on a bronze is stolen ... what Miranda discovers about  her smooth Ryan will shock her and lure her in deeper than she ever wanted  to go ... but something secretly inside her desires things she thinks she  won't ever be able to have ... but will she never get them? I don't think  so!  It all started when she had had her bags stolen and when she finds  this out it will force her to face reality and the dark promises that come  along with that. This is a great read and if you want surprises, mystery,  romance, and daring adventure I recommend this book to you!	2000-08-03
US	49038158	R25UGZLVSARIW2	0345356748	208453640	The Lady	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Long live The Lady!	The Carradynes ... the father, Captain Michael, his daughter Catriona who  is almost 13 and her mother Isabel own a well known stable. To Catriona and  Michael their lives seem to revolve around the stable and the horses.  Catriona's life is all horses much to her mother's bitter disappointment.  Isabel is determined to make Catriona a respectable, ladylike, socially  involved, young girl even if that's not what Catriona wants. Michael gets  tired of Isabel's ideas and soon the household is an unpleasant place to  be, tense and strained.  Fate decided to play its hand finally and Mrs.  Selina Healy comes onto the scene. Poised, respected, beautiful, elegant,  understanding, an accomplished horsewoman, and all that Catriona hopes to  become when she grows older. Michael soon comes to apprechiate Selina's  skills and Catriona comes to love Selina for all she is. But when Selina  faces the truth how will that effect the atmosphere and when Michael comes  to face reality what will that bring him? I have read this book so many  times that the book is starting to become ragged and think that for anyone  over 12 it will be a splendid read!!!	2000-08-03
US	49038158	R37EUD780FP0X4	0373484003	678331271	Irish Hearts (Mills & Boon Special Releases)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hidden Romance	This was the first book of Nora Roberts that I have ever read and I  discovered it only a few months ago. It was rather ironic when I found  Irish Thoroughbred was her first book. <br />Irish Thoroughbred starts when  Adelia (Dee) Cunnane comes to America after spending her life on a farm in  Ireland. Her uncle, Uncle Paddy welcomes her to America and she comes to  work at the same stable that he works at. Right away she impresses the  stablehands with her ability to make friends with horses. When she finally  meets Travis Grant who owns the stable it doesn't put her in a forunate  spot ... or so she thinks. Sparks of romance fly for her and she is sure he  is just amusing himself but for now his kisses are enough. Dee gets caught  in a whirlwind of confusion and emotional pain. But the ending has several  twists for her that she doesn't expect ... <br />Irish Rose begins when Erin  McKinnon meets her cousin who happens to be Adelia, and Adelia's husband  Travis, their children, and Burke Logan steps off the plane into Ireland.  Erin secretly wants more from the world than to just be in Ireland. She  wants a life full of exciting adventures and is uncomfortable when Burke  can see her desires so clearly when the rest cannot. She soon finds herself  in America to keep Burke's account books organized. She is in much deeper  than she suspects though and when things start to become more clear a few  things are still hazy ... things that are most important to her. When she  gets things straight will she like what she finds? What about Burke? Sparks  are flying and are almost out of control. How will it end?	2000-08-03
US	49038158	R3SHZGPWFE4AJB	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This was an exciting book!	Full of adventure, danger, the magical unknown and sparks of romance Green Rider is a terrific read. Karigan, suspended from Selium decided to run  home instead of waiting for her father to come and fetch her. The adventure  begins when she sees a rider who is almost dead. He made her swear to  deliver a message to the King. He tells her to &quot;Beware the Shadow  Man&quot;. Who is the Shadow Man? She finds out later and tests her powers  against him to save her friends' lives and her own. She creates friends and  discovers men who want the message she carries, no matter what the cost.  What would a message say that was so important that people are willing to  kill for it?  The only thing is that the end of the book leaves you to  wonder about what happens afterward. I hope that Miss Britain decides to  write a sequel and that it will be as equally thrilling!	2000-08-02
US	49038158	R2QJMP600XB5ED	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An amazing read!	Green Rider is a combination of mystery, adventure, the magical unknown of both good and evil along with romance and stages of trouble. Karigan G'ladheon, a merchant's daughter whose adventure begins when suspended from  Selium, the school she attended. She runs away, heading for home instead of  waiting for her father to come, and promises to deliver a message to the  King Zachary when she sees a dying man. He warned her &quot;Beware the  shadow man.&quot; and from then on the journey begins! Someone is looking  for her ... more than looking for her; he wants the message that is meant  for the King, no matter what the cost. Even if it means her life. Always in  danger she meets different people who encourage her at each part of her  dangerous adventure while others mean to do whatever necessary to get their  hands on her. The Shadow Man is tracking her, but who is the Shadow Man? By  what means does she have to destroy him before he destroys her? Intrigue is  the game they play and who will win in the end?  I loved reading this book  but it makes you wonder what happens after it's finished. I hope that  Kristin Britain writes a sequel to Green Rider and think it will be equally  as good!	2000-08-01
US	49038158	RGIJU2MOVEV67	0380791994	814263159	Singer from the Sea	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Surprises with each page!	This is the first book of Sheri S. Tepper's that I have read. It's filled with mysteries of the unknown. Genevieve lives on the planet of Haven and learning the ways of women in the rank of her society by the Covenants. The  Covenants are the laws of how women are to behave and what their public and  private appearances should be like. Her mother who is now dead taught her  other things that no one else did, things she wasn't suppose to tell anyone  else until the right time. When spoken of being wed to a man who Genevieve  can't imagine being married to she flees from everything she has known.  Partly to help herself and partly to help a friend's daughter whose life is  in danger. Her own life is in danger as it is but how is she to know that?  Until later when things become clearer but it isn't until much later when  she discovers herself and comes to accept it. Things aren't as they seem.  Only one person is there for her throughout the whole time even if he isn't  literally there for her. Danger lurks while romance sparks, mystery and  death are the only way that everyone will go on living ... but not if  Genevieve can change that.	2000-08-01
