US	49037222	R1QG8L96WAQCWD	0310235391	599335489	Three Views on Eastern Orthodoxy and Evangelicalism (Counterpoints)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A Good Comparison of the Issues Between Orthodox and Evangelicals	My one real disappointment was the article by Dr. Hancock-Stefan.  While writing from the \\"maybe\\" evangelical position, he nevertheless reduces the maybe to a \\"maybe, but why would you wan to?\\" kind of critique.  His viewpoint is heavily colored by his experiences with evangelism in the Romania, and Protestant inability to make any traction against a monolithic ethnically orthodox church.  Yet, it seems his concerns lie mostly with volk Orthodoxy rather than with the theology of the living Church.  His (sometimes accurate) claim that Orthodox Christians are disinterested in the faith and have no personal relationship with Jesus Christ is far too one handed; he chooses to paint this picture of Orthodoxy as if it were authoritative while holding up Evangelicalism as the paragon of having a personal relationship to Jesus, though never choosing to see that among Evangelicals there are in fact just as many who have no personal relationship with Jesus and no interest to acquire it, despite a public face otherwise.  I know; I used to be one.  Thus, rather than being a \\"maybe\\" from an Evangelical perspective, this article quickly degenerates into a solid no based on unequal points of comparison.	2005-07-25
US	49037222	R3IAUTPOZIZW43	0310247594	238514005	Exploring the Worship Spectrum: Six Views (Counterpoints)	Books	1	16	29	N	N	Some parts not fit for print	I take issue with this volume for one sole, but to my mind very important, reason: Paul Zahl.  His defense of liturgical worship was absolutely abysmal.  Not once did he mention the actual meaning of the word liturgy (\\"people's work,\\" originally used in ancient Greece to describe public works projects), describing it rather as being about \\"one of the two(!) sacraments or Morning prayer,\\" which he calls a service of \\"Pure Word,\\" again rather than what it really is: pure prayer.<br /><br />Secondly, his advocating of \\"Bible worship,\\" by which I can only assume he means \\"biblically-based worship\\" was wooden and ineffective.  He has, either wittingly or not, fallen into the old trap of unbalancing the place of Word and Sacrament.  In the Eucharistic liturgy, they take up roughly the same amount of space in time, demonstrating their equality as worship towards G-d.  It seems he would prefer to view the Word as the main attraction, and the sacrament as a \\"warm-down\\" act that follows the real worship, rather than Word being what helps us receive the sacrament.  That he even calls supposedly proper liturgy \\"Bible worship\\" is, from a semantic point of view, very chilling and reason enough for any orthodox Christian to avoid his perspective.<br /><br />Third, he fails to mention that liturgical worship goes back to the earliest days Church, and that one of the earliest extra-canonical church documents we possess is a liturgy.<br /><br />Fourth, he uses his article to take unnecessary slaps at the Roman Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church, and even his own Episcopal Church.  His points about the liturgy of the first two churches only underscore his lack of appreciation for both word and sacrament as equal parts of the worship of G-d.  One assumes that, because they do not fit his ideal of preaching centeredness, that they do not worship G-d effectively.<br /><br />On the whole, I don't think the book could have found a weaker apologist for liturgy.  Indeed, it seems as if Harold Best was more prepared to understand, appreciate, and defend liturgy for what it is and what it can be than Zahl ever was.  Rather than doing as he should have, Zahl sets out with an ideological ax to grind, and spends so much on that project as to never really appreciate liturgy in its fullness.  Where I not already a liturgist, I would hardly have been inspired to even find out what real liturgy was based on this article.  Furthermore, prefacing liturgy with \\"formal\\" makes it seem as if liturgy is characterized by formality and all others \\"types\\" are by definition \\"informal,\\" which would be a tragic error to make.<br /><br />The other articles in this book where quite well written, and I feel each of the authors adequately elucidated, even though I am skeptical that some of the designations in the book (such as \\"Traditional hymn based\\") can actually exist independently.  Yet, despite its good points, Zahl's article and subsequent responses are absolutely inexcusable, and none of his work should even have seen print.e prepared to understand, appreciate, and defend liturgy for what it is and what it can be than Zahl ever was.  Rather than doing as he should have, Zahl sets out with an ideological ax to grind, and spends so much on that project as to never really appreciate liturgy in its fullness.  Where I not already a liturgist, I would hardly have been inspired to even find out what real liturgy was based on this article.  Furthermore, prefacing liturgy with \\"formal\\" makes it seem as if liturgy is characterized by formality and all others \\"types\\" are by definition \\"informal,\\" which would be a tragic error to make.   <br />The other articles in this book where quite well written, and I feel each of the authors adequately elucidated, even though I am skeptical that some of the designations in the book (such as \\"Traditional hymn based\\") can actually exist independently.  Yet, despite its good points, Zahl's article and subsequent responses are absolutely inexcusable, and none of his work should even have seen print. <br />	2005-07-03
US	49037222	R1GEDEX3ZEI9GD	0310244900	202453681	How Jewish Is Christianity?: 2 Views on the Messianic Movement (Counterpoints: Bible and Theology)	Books	2	34	43	N	N	Not What I'd Hoped For	When I picked up this book, I expected that it would be a thorough theological elucidation of the merits and dismerits of Messianic Judaism from the perspective of Christian theology and that it would present and even-handed evaluation of that movement.  Sadly, that was not what I found.<br /><br />On the whole, I found this volume to be highly unbalanced.  Of five authors contributing to the study, four were pro-Messianic and one was anti-Messianic.  Such an unbalanced number of proponents and detractors is not in the best interest of serious theological study.  Secondly, for me the book was a further disappointment in that it considered only the Messianic synagogue movement, rather than the entire notion of where, how, and to what extent should Jews who convert to Christianity retain Jewish practices, regardless of the question of synagogue legitimacy.  There is so much more that could have been and should have been done with this topic, but sadly was not.	2005-05-10
US	49037222	R2OHDY0BRUEHOA	0813391563	464789126	The Rapture Exposed: The Message of Hope in the Book of Revelation	Books	1	53	103	N	N	Revelation Disposed	I have one significant problem with this work: specifically, it devotes so much time to the refutation of dispensationalist thought, yet it absolutely fails to give us a viable alternative.  Dr. Rossing seems refuses throughout the work to present an escatology that can and does stand up to that espoused by Tim LaHaye, Hal Lindsey, and others.  What she does offer us, \\"Lamb Power,\\" is neither effectively explained nor adequately applied to the text of Revelation.  Indeed, it seems as though Rossing is either unwilling or unable to come to grasps with the more gruesome parts of the text.  Yes, G-d is loving and kind, but Revelations also shows a less kind, less gentle side of G-d.  If we are to follow Rossing's method, all we need to do is pretend these portions of scripture simply do not exist.  I'm almost surprised I didn't see an argument from her as to why Revelation should be excluded from the canon.<br /><br />It's not that I disagree with Dr. Rossing's conclusions (as a Lutheran and a biblical scholar myself, I'm predisposed to agree with her).  Really, I truly do want to agree with her and everything she says, but the fact is her work gives me absolutely no reason to.  While she seems to be saying, \\"Don't believe LaHaye, Lindsey, and the others because they're wrong and I can show you how I'm right,\\" in reality, she never actually tells us what to believe instead of their perspective.  In addition, while pointing out the lack of antiquity of Dispensationalist theology, she points us to no alternatives from the patristic sources nor does she show a line of interpretation of Revelation through Christian history.  Is she unaware of any citations or exegesis on Revelation by the Fathers, or is she simply ignoring them for some reason which is beyond me.<br /><br />On the whole, I'd like to recommend this book, but I can't.  It sets itself up as a challenge to the Dispensationalist camp, offering us a viable alternative to their exegesis, and yet in the end Rossing fails to deliver any of the sort.  If you're looking for a book to point your Dispensationalist friends to, this won't be it.  If anything, they'll walk away feeling justified in their beliefs since at least their authors know that the book of Revelation needs to be explained to people, not reinvented to be kindler and gentler.o deliver any of the sort.  If you're looking for a book to point your Dispensationalist friends to, this won't be it.  If anything, they'll walk away feeling justified in their beliefs since at least their authors know that the book of Revelation needs to be explained to people, not reinvented to be kindler and gentler.   <br />	2005-05-10
US	49037222	R1554JD5ZW6D4D	0829416455	740919274	The New Faithful: Why Young Adults Are Embracing Christian Orthodoxy	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Good, But...	This is an excellent book which shows how young Christians of all stripes are returning to their theologically conservative roots.  I felt that the anecdotal comments from these \\"new faithful\\" were very enlightening, especially when they explain why they hold the theological views that they do.  My only disappointment, however, is that, while Carroll includes young persons from many points in the broader catholic tradition (be they Roman, Orthodox, or Anglican), she totally ignores Lutherans, even when introducing individuals who are Pentecostal and Baptist.  Are there none of these \\"new faithful\\" among the Lutherans?  Was she unable to find them?  Or has she given up on the Lutheran Church?  In any case, such a serious omission of a major Catholic communion is certainly lamentable, and results in a much lower rating than would have otherwise been deserved.	2005-05-10
US	49037222	R1IPERX1N9XGAB	0800793722	850936224	Messianic Judaism is Not Christianity: A Loving Call to Unity	Books	3	29	41	N	Y	A More Thorough Theological Critique Required	Having read Messianic Judaism by Dan Cohen-Sherbok and absorbed his evaluation of the place of the Messianic movement within Judaism, I eagerly awaited Mr. Telchin's work on the same subject from a Christian perspective.  While I expected a thorough argument against Messianic Judaism's inclusion in the broader Christian tradition (based on the title), instead what was proposed was something theology of why Messianic Jews should not establish independent congregations.  Though thorough in scope and interesting in logic, I will admit that I was disappointed by what seemed to be Telchin's need to trash Christianity.  While it's important not to deny Christianity's anti-Judaic past, its also important to understand that past in the process of not denying it.  He blatantly paints all the Church Fathers as anti-Semitic (which they were not) and the majority of Christian theology as being based on a need to \\"put down\\" the Jews (it was not).  Still, Telchin is to be praised for his thorough elucidation of the problems endemic to the Messianic congregational movement, particularly as they relate to Messianic relations (or lack thereof) with other Christian communities.	2005-05-10
US	49037222	R32TM5JX6T8940	1556613490	152185139	Celebrating the Christian Year	Books	1	12	26	N	N	These are the "Major" Feasts?	After having read her other book, Celebrate the Feasts, I assumed that this volume would contain similar personal, though somewhat helpful, advise for enhancing the familial celebration of the traditional Christian holidays.  I will state that I didn't expect much, and boy did I get it.<br />Though the subtitle proclaims the volume is about the \\"major Christian Holidays,\\" I was stunned to see that, indeed, it contained only a very few of the Feasts of Our Lord (Christmas, Epiphany, Palm Sunday, Easter, Ascension, and Pentecost) and relied mostly on lesser \\"commemorations,\\" including Saints' Days of Nicholas, Lucia, Valentine, Patrick, and All Saints (though she erroneously combines this one with secular Halloween) the drawing out of one fast (in three chapters, she covers Shrove Tuesday, Ash Wednesday, and Lent, all of which could and should have been treated together as they all start (or occur) within two days of each other), and other either national or nature \\"holidays\\" such as First Day of Spring, Halloween, and Thanksgiving.  So, of eighteen chapters that are devoted to the \\"major Christian\\" holidays, she has only seven of twelve Feasts of Our Lord (in addition to those above, the others are The Presentation of Our L-rd, The Annunciation, Transfiguration, Dormition of the Theotokos, Nativity of the Theotokos, Exaltation of the Holy Cross, and the Presentation of the Theotokos, which makes thirteen, as Easter is a feast beyond all others), two devoted to the preparatory fasts of Advent and Lent (with Lent being overly drawn out) and approximately eleven other chapters devoted to holidays that are not that \\"major\\" (St. Patrick's Day, outside the US, is only a \\"major\\" holiday in Ireland) or are not even Christian.<br />Of further complaint, she makes several crucial errors.  The first is that, according to her, Easter is a festival lasting a day.  However, all but the Reformed and Free traditions of Christianity, Easter is a fifty day festival, culminating in Pentecost.  Further, she makes the somewhat dubious claim that hot cross buns are holdovers of cakes baked for the pagan god Tammuz and his mother (mentioned in Jer. 7.18) which seems more of a desperate attempt to disparage some traditional celebrations of Easter rather than understand them.  The suggestion she makes that Lent as a forty-day fast was borrowed from a fast for Astarte (who's cult was long gone by the Christian era) only hints at the volume's scholastic ineptitude.  Had she known her liturgical history, she would easily have seen that the Lenten fast was a holdover from the baptismal fast imposed on those seeking Baptism, the proper time of which was the Vigil of Easter.  Hence, the true origin of Lent.  The chapter on Lent is so derogatory, in fact, I myself am left wondering why she included anything at all about the fast in the first place.  If it really is as evil as she makes it out to be, then she should have ignored or glossed it, not overly inundated us with how to celebrate it!<br />While I was less than impressed with her previous offering, this one is simply abysmal.  The poor scholarship, the over inclusion of commemorations (even over the lesser festivals), the didactic tone, and derogatory remarks about some traditions all make this work almost too off-putting.  I would give it less than one star, but I can't, so I'll have to live with that.  I'm just glad I found this at a library and didn't have to actually buy it..  Further, she makes the somewhat dubious claim that hot cross buns are holdovers of cakes baked for the pagan god Tammuz and his mother (mentioned in Jer. 7.18) which seems more of a desperate attempt to disparage some traditional celebrations of Easter rather than understand them.  The suggestion she makes that Lent as a forty-day fast was borrowed from a fast for Astarte (who's cult was long gone by the Christian era) only hints at the volume's scholastic ineptitude.  Had she known her liturgical history, she would easily have seen that the Lenten fast was a holdover from the baptismal fast imposed on those seeking Baptism, the proper time of which was the Vigil of Easter.  Hence, the true origin of Lent.  The chapter on Lent is so derogatory, in fact, I myself am left wondering why she included anything at all about the fast in the first place.  If it really is as evil as she makes it out to be, then she should have ignored or glossed it, not overly inundated us with how to celebrate it!  While I was less than impressed with her previous offering, this one is simply abysmal.  The poor scholarship, the over inclusion of commemorations (even over the lesser festivals), the didactic tone, and derogatory remarks about some traditions all make this work almost too off-putting.  I would give it less than one star, but I can't, so I'll have to live with that.  I'm just glad I found this at a library and didn't have to actually buy it.	2004-07-12
US	49037222	RQUIXY7QJA75U	0687361729	669137009	Revelation for Today	Books	1	10	41	N	N	Try not to contradict yourself	Usually, it is a good idea to not contradict yourself in your own book, particularly on a key point.  Unfortunately, that is exactly what Efird does in this particular work.  There are a couple of instances, but a few in particular stand out as especially gross.<br />Much of Efird's purpose is to \\"disprove\\" a Darbyist (or any type of literalist) interpretation of Revelation.  Instead, he prefers a wholly spiritual interpretation that removes all place for literal fulfillment.  It is additionally his assertion that literal fulfillment of Revelation is \\"relatively new and, in most aspects of the interpretation of Revelation, wrong,\\" and those who espouse a literal interpretation of Revelation are also \\"wrong to impose into the text meaning that are not there and were never intended.\\" (p 127-8)  He tries to prove his point by arguing that all apocalyptic literature was intended to be taken as purely symbolic by appealing the vast number of first century apocalyptic works that are out there.  In his view, because the high volume of works in such a genre, there is no way that it could ever have been meant as literal.  Of course, such an argument ignores the numerous non-canonical gospel accounts, which few would argue were meant to be taken literally and as history by their authors.  In short, volume does not take away an intent at literalness.<br />But this is not his sole argument.  It is his belief that first century Christians would have known what the \\"real\\" interpretation of Revelation was, and in fact it is the same interpretation that he has for us.  How convenient.  Of course, this ignores his own evidence, namely that both Ireanus and Justin Martyr both advocated a &quot;premillennial,&quot; literal interpretation.  Both of these men lived within a hundred years of the scholarly time period for the composition of Revelation (90 CE), so it seems likely that they held at least a close idea as to what those who originally read the book would have thought.  After all, both of these men would have to have been taught by members of the original audience, for both of them came from the area in Asia minor where the seven churches were located (believed by many to be the addressees of the book).  The spiritualization of the book did not come until 500 CE, almost 400 years after John wrote his book.  Additionally, we should contend as to what the purpose might have been.<br />It is true that John probably wrote the book to strengthen those who were being persecuted.  However, there may be another current flowing underneath that.  The Rabbinical counsels were meeting at this time in an attempt at trying to formulate a way to bring the disparate groups of Judaism together.  One of the points was to confirm which works should be regarded as authoritative, and where they belonged in the cannon.  The book of Daniel (the one that most closely resembles Revelation) was designated on of the Kituvim (writings) because of the strange nature of the work AND because the prophecies had yet to achieve literal fulfillment (another example of people expecting literal fulfillment of an apocalyptic work), in addition to Daniel, unlike other prophets, putting time constraints on his prophecies.  It is possible, based on its close resemblance to Daniel, that Revelation was written as a supplement and interpretation of Daniel so that the Christian community would have a reason to maintain it's place of prominence within the church (which is why Daniel is listed after Ezekiel and before the minor prophets in Christian Bibles).<br />Additionally, this is probably a work of propaganda.  The millienial reign is likely to give Christians something else to point to in an attempt to prove Jesus is the Messiah.  The peaceful kingdom demanded by Isaiah 9 did not come about with the first coming of Jesus (and nobody was beating swords into plows, either), but if he's coming back (an early church teaching) then he must be going to institute the Isaiah 9 prophecies then.  In that respect, it would seem to me that the author, John (who was probably Jewish based on name) expected parts of his book to be taken literally, parts symbolically.  Add that to early rabbinical tradition that the world was believed to be in a seven thousand (literal) year cycle, wherein the last thousand years the Messiah would come and institute a (literal) reign of peace and prosperity.  Of course, probably the most disturbing thing is that Efird genuinely expects that people under persecution would not want to take this book literally.  Tell it to Christians in southern Sudan that there will be no millennial kingdom of Christ, that he isn't literally coming back, and tell me what kind of reaction you get.  I guarantee you that it wouldn't be pretty.  To expect them to not only agree with you, but to then confess that they are more strengthened by a spiritual fulfillment of the prophecies of the book than literal ones is not only delusional, it's downright silly.<br />The really sad part of all this is Efird wants so badly to discredit Darbyism that he discredits himself.  By claiming that he has the original interpretation of the book, and that it's completely spiritual and then pointing to church fathers who were centuries closer to the original readers than he ever was, and who espoused a literalist interpretation, and then to say that he's absolutely right and they're wrong is at best arrogant and at the worst is tantamount to scholarly malpractice in my mind.  To hear him preach at us about how we need to have the mindset of the intended audience and then hear him say that members of that audience are wrong makes me ashamed that I paid money for this book.  At least I didn't waste too much time reading it..  In that respect, it would seem to me that the author, John (who was probably Jewish based on name) expected parts of his book to be taken literally, parts symbolically.  Add that to early rabbinical tradition that the world was believed to be in a seven thousand (literal) year cycle, wherein the last thousand years the Messiah would come and institute a (literal) reign of peace and prosperity.  Of course, probably the most disturbing thing is that Efird genuinely expects that people under persecution would not want to take this book literally.  Tell it to Christians in southern Sudan that there will be no millennial kingdom of Christ, that he isn't literally coming back, and tell me what kind of reaction you get.  I guarantee you that it wouldn't be pretty.  To expect them to not only agree with you, but to then confess that they are more strengthened by a spiritual fulfillment of the prophecies of the book than literal ones is not only delusional, it's downright silly.<br />The really sad part of all this is Efird wants so badly to discredit Darbyism that he discredits himself.  By claiming that he has the original interpretation of the book, and that it's completely spiritual and then pointing to church fathers who were centuries closer to the original readers than he ever was, and who espoused a literalist interpretation, and then to say that he's absolutely right and they're wrong is at best arrogant and at the worst is tantamount to scholarly malpractice in my mind.  To hear him preach at us about how we need to have the mindset of the intended audience and then hear him say that members of that audience are wrong makes me ashamed that I paid money for this book.  At least I didn't waste too much time reading it.	2004-07-12
US	49037222	RZ00GF5F89V2V	0304707309	766630870	Messianic Judaism: The First Study of Messianic Judaism by a Non-Adherent	Books	4	5	8	N	N	For Mixed Audiences	...<br />There are several good points to this book.  First, it has an excellent (if obtusely written) historical overview of Hebrew Christianity and Messianic Judaism.  Second, it does go into great detail as to the why and what of Messianic Jewish belief, as well as ritual practice and observance.  He also has a chapter specifically concerning dissenting opinions about Messianic Judaism.<br />Never the less, there are a few very serious problems.  First, it is unclear who his intended audience is from his discussion of Messianic Liturgical practices.  Is he writing for Christians or for Jews?  Obviously, a Jew with any common knowledge of how a service was structured would find the information he presents in several places rudimentary.  I am lead to believe that he cannot possibly be expecting to find Jewish audiences in this book because some Jews that I know (some, not all, and only the ones I know, not everybody) would rather spit on anything \\"Messianic\\" that look at it, let alone read or understand it, so he can't be writing for Jews, but for Christians.  If that's the case, then he needs to make a better argument as to why Christians should accept Jewish expressions of Christianity, not why Messianics should be included in the Jewish community.  He continually confuses the audience as to whom he is speaking.  Secondly, his defense of Messianic Judaism as a legitimate expression of Jewishness is, at best, misplaced.  It comes after his chapter on dissenting opinions from within the Jewish community.  He offers no real defense of MJ except to say that they should be accepted because there are other non-Orthodox branches that aren't excluded and the plurality of Jews in the West can't put themselves into a definable box anyway.  This is, of course, a silly argument.  Of course MJ can be excluded form being a legitimate expression of Judaism because it, unlike any other branch, believes Jesus is the Messiah.  Non-belief in the Messiahship of Jesus is a prerequisite to entrance into the Jewish community.  By itself, this argument does not stand.  It would have been better to cite some examples of historic opinions from Judaism that support might Trinitarian notions as well as historic and modern groups that hold Messianic convictions about an individual (read: the Lubavitcher Chassidim).  That would have made his argument for inclusion much stronger.  Finally, he does not allow Messianic Jews to answer their accusers, particularly the ones that \\"converted\\" back from Christianity/Messianic Judaism.  I noticed that not one of those individuals remained Christians.  Instead, always they went back to Judaism, and always in a pretty neat formula (\\"I wasn't very Jewish, I got mixed up in this horrible group (read: cult) but some kind Jewish soul showed me the light.  Now I'm a real Jew, more Jewish than I was when I was one of 'those' people, and everything is just super because everything they ever told me was a lie.\\"  It sounds more than a little contrived, and it's defiantly propaganda.)  Each of these is a serious omission that should have been included to lend credibility to his arguments.<br />Nevertheless, Rabbi Cohn-Sherbok should be commended for this book.  It is bold, displays a high level of commitment to a level of objectivity.  This is a touchy subject for all sides of the debate, and while it's not apparent which side of the debate the Rabbi is on, he is at least willing to look with fairness towards MJ, especially since it is often ignored/discredited without even cursory consideration of the shell game of an argument being used against them.  If there is ever to be reasonable dialogue, then such attacks must cease and desist.  Unfortunately, however, I don't think that any side is willing to put aside its agenda and reason together, but perhaps this book will at least change some of that.to entrance into the Jewish community.  By itself, this argument does not stand.  It would have been better to cite some examples of historic opinions from Judaism that support might Trinitarian notions as well as historic and modern groups that hold Messianic convictions about an individual (read: the Lubavitcher Chassidim).  That would have made his argument for inclusion much stronger.  Finally, he does not allow Messianic Jews to answer their accusers, particularly the ones that \\"converted\\" back from Christianity/Messianic Judaism.  I noticed that not one of those individuals remained Christians.  Instead, always they went back to Judaism, and always in a pretty neat formula (\\"I wasn't very Jewish, I got mixed up in this horrible group (read: cult) but some kind Jewish soul showed me the light.  Now I'm a real Jew, more Jewish than I was when I was one of 'those' people, and everything is just super because everything they ever told me was a lie.\\"  It sounds more than a little contrived, and it's defiantly propaganda.)  Each of these is a serious omission that should have been included to lend credibility to his arguments.<br />Nevertheless, Rabbi Cohn-Sherbok should be commended for this book.  It is bold, displays a high level of commitment to a level of objectivity.  This is a touchy subject for all sides of the debate, and while it's not apparent which side of the debate the Rabbi is on, he is at least willing to look with fairness towards MJ, especially since it is often ignored/discredited without even cursory consideration of the shell game of an argument being used against them.  If there is ever to be reasonable dialogue, then such attacks must cease and desist.  Unfortunately, however, I don't think that any side is willing to put aside its agenda and reason together, but perhaps this book will at least change some of that.	2003-07-01
US	49037222	R1YEZWBTH0LC1S	0062516485	344099532	The Four Witnesses: The Rebel, the Rabbi, the Chronicler, and the Mystic	Books	2	24	32	N	N	Can I get a Witness??	I was initially excited about reading the Four Witnesses. I saw it on Amazon.com and thought that it would be great. OK, I'll admit, I really just bought it for the cover. What a mistake. You really shouldn't judge a book by its cover. I honestly believed that this would be a fresh study of the gospels, or at least something that didn't fit the mold of much of the other liberal and ultra conservative ho-hum books I've read. Unfortunately, it's the same textual critical method we've seen a thousand times dressed up like something new and exciting. That was a let down. My second disappointment is that he very rarely looked at what the individual gospels have to say about Jesus apart from the other three (because if you rely on textual criticism, you can't come up with anything else because Mark used \\"Q\\" (whatever that is, because no one really knows), Matthew and Luke used Mark and Q, Luke probably used Matthew, and John is just off in his own little world, all according to the \\"party line\\"). What made this even more disappointing is that Jones has the most obtuse writing style (if you can call it style) that I've ever had the displeasure of coming across. I agree with a previous reviewer that he is constantly telling us what he's going to tell us (you're still getting introductory material well into pages in the 50's, and its only a 300 page book), but I would add that he never really tells us that which he says he's going to tell us, or at least, he never proves what he's trying to tell us. Additionally, he uses some really strange names for the books of the Bible in an effort to free it from the shackles of tradition, or some garbage to that effect. Some of these names seem to be of his own invention, and they're just really silly (Beginnings, Escape, Ritual Laws, Census, and Second Law for the first five). Of course, this is a totally pointless exercise because he puts the traditional name right next to it so that we wind up with (Escape [Exodus] 12:1). My question is if you're just going to repeat the \\"real\\" name of the book right after your \\"updated\\" name, why have it all, particularly when you spend so long trying to justify making the switch in the first place? Additionally, he uses only his own translations of texts. I don't like it when people use their own translations of texts. It's much easier to allow personal bias or theological agendas to creep in. I really don't like it when the average pastor/priest, armed with only a dictionary and a lexicon, tries to do it. Leave that work to the professionals, or at least those with qualifications. That I know of, Jones has no qualifications as a translator. In fact, he doesn't list any credentials at all, save that he is now in one of the most important offices of the Anglican Church (Whoptydo) and wrote this book in John Whesley's Study (what does that have to do with anything other than a neat aside...and besides Whesley was a great church leader, not a scholar). Lastly, and this is my personal pet peeve, he cites no one. No scholars, no church fathers, no theologians, not his aunt, no body. It's funny. I bought this and Ann Wroe's Pontious Pilate at the same time and I was equally disenchanted with them. I must have been having a bad week that week. In any case, let me just advise you to not go with this book. It really isn't worth it, except for the really cool cover art, but even that isn't so cool once you look at it up close.n is if you're just going to repeat the \\"real\\" name of the book right after your \\"updated\\" name, why have it all, particularly when you spend so long trying to justify making the switch in the first place? Additionally, he uses only his own translations of texts. I don't like it when people use their own translations of texts. It's much easier to allow personal bias or theological agendas to creep in. I really don't like it when the average pastor/priest, armed with only a dictionary and a lexicon, tries to do it. Leave that work to the professionals, or at least those with qualifications. That I know of, Jones has no qualifications as a translator. In fact, he doesn't list any credentials at all, save that he is now in one of the most important offices of the Anglican Church (Whoptydo) and wrote this book in John Whesley's Study (what does that have to do with anything other than a neat aside...and besides Whesley was a great church leader, not a scholar). Lastly, and this is my personal pet peeve, he cites no one. No scholars, no church fathers, no theologians, not his aunt, no body. It's funny. I bought this and Ann Wroe's Pontious Pilate at the same time and I was equally disenchanted with them. I must have been having a bad week that week. In any case, let me just advise you to not go with this book. It really isn't worth it, except for the really cool cover art, but even that isn't so cool once you look at it up close.	2003-05-06
US	49037222	R18Q5OOXLHZRQE	0871232286	822596551	Celebrate the Feasts of the Old Testament in Your Own Home or Church	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Needs Extensive Revisions	I have studied Jewish holidays in both their Jewish and Messianic context, and I can confirm the position of another reviewer: that is, the book presents less of a Christian perspective than a Christian revamping.  The problem is that often times Christians will drastically alter the method of celebration.  For example, in the Passover haggadah, the fifteen steps are completely missing in a logical fashion, despite the fact the fifteen steps are designed to replace the use of the Psalms of Ascents from the Second Temple period, when the haggadah was formed.  Another example is Shavout.  She recommends playing a game of \\"slaps\\" to keep one awake all night to study Torah.  However, I do believe that I have the backing of several authorities when I say that if one must force themselves awake, it is less meritorious than had they just gone to bed when they got tired.  Zimmerman states in the portion about Kashering for Passover that we are \\"teaching principles, not rules.\\"  However, it is important to remember in the laws of Pesach that the alien who desires to celebrate Pesach must abide by the same rules of removing leaven as a Jew.  Not that I am advocating a legalistic or even strict interpretation of the rules of Kashrut for Pesach, but I am saying you cannot pick and choose which part of the holiday you will keep and which you will not.<br />Of course, there is also a demonstrated lack of understanding of Talmudic regulations towards the holidays, again in regards to Shavout.  Zimmerman and her family mark the first fruit to grow on their fruit trees to be offered when they ripen, in accordance with the Biblical command, I will admit.  However, agricultural injunctions are only applicable inside of Israel.  One might protest, \\"well, that is the Talmud and she is following the Bible,\\" but the tradition of staying up all night reading Torah is not found in the Bible, either.  There is also the omission of other holidays, such as Chanukah and Purim.  Even though they are not mentioned in the Torah, there are indications in the New Testament that Jesus celebrated at least Chanukah.  All this is to say that there are some very serious problems with the book.<br />Nevertheless, there are some things to be said for the book.  First, it shows Christians that there is not only a way to celebrate these holidays, but also that it can be relevant to them.  Most Christians view these holidays as archaic and inapplicable to modern Christianity (there is a similar crisis in some portions of Judaism) and many are distrustful of Messianic Judaism for whatever reason.  It is for that reason important for a Gentile, Protestant Christian to approach these holidays from the starting point of being a Gentile, with no pretensions as to a Jewish background whatsoever.  In essence, one of our own is doing it, maybe we can, too.  Secondly, it demonstrated to liberal and conservative Protestants that perhaps they, as a community, can celebrate these holidays, for the same reasons above.<br />I would really give this book 2 1/2 stars if I could.  It needs some serious revisions to the recommended method of implementation for the holidays; a more thorough understanding of the Talmud wouldn't hurt either.  I also would have liked to see her refer more on how she went about implementing her decision to celebrate Biblical/Jewish holidays within her family and later in her church community.  Specifically, these tips would have been helpful, I'm sure.  On the whole, it's a good start, though I do recommend that you do not take anything as authoritative unless you can see it backed up somewhere else, preferably from a traditional or Messianic source.not mentioned in the Torah, there are indications in the New Testament that Jesus celebrated at least Chanukah.  All this is to say that there are some very serious problems with the book.  Nevertheless, there are some things to be said for the book.  First, it shows Christians that there is not only a way to celebrate these holidays, but also that it can be relevant to them.  Most Christians view these holidays as archaic and inapplicable to modern Christianity (there is a similar crisis in some portions of Judaism) and many are distrustful of Messianic Judaism for whatever reason.  It is for that reason important for a Gentile, Protestant Christian to approach these holidays from the starting point of being a Gentile, with no pretensions as to a Jewish background whatsoever.  In essence, one of our own is doing it, maybe we can, too.  Secondly, it demonstrated to liberal and conservative Protestants that perhaps they, as a community, can celebrate these holidays, for the same reasons above.  I would really give this book 2 1/2 stars if I could.  It needs some serious revisions to the recommended method of implementation for the holidays; a more thorough understanding of the Talmud wouldn't hurt either.  I also would have liked to see her refer more on how she went about implementing her decision to celebrate Biblical/Jewish holidays within her family and later in her church community.  Specifically, these tips would have been helpful, I'm sure.  On the whole, it's a good start, though I do recommend that you do not take anything as authoritative unless you can see it backed up somewhere else, preferably from a traditional or Messianic source.	2003-04-23
US	49037222	R11G5YS7TILN92	0914863010	393552485	Hebrew Christianity:  Its Theology, History, and Philosophy	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Brief and Wanting for More	Dr. Fruchtenbaum has written what amounts to little more than a tract on Messianic Judaism/Hebrew Christianity.  For being so short, it is not without its problems.  First, it leaves me wanting for a more concrete differentiation between Hebrew Christianity and Messianic Judaism, if such a distinction exists at all.  Secondly, Dr. Fruchtenbaum, while having a view of who is Jewish and who is not, does not suggest any method for what to do with those who live as Jews (in a Messianic context or otherwise) and who either are children or converts or are \\"righteous Gentiles.\\"  Another point on his determination of heritage is that we have no way of telling if any Jews are really Jews at this point if we return to patrilineal decent because Jewish identity has been determined by females for the past two millennia; there is no suggestion of how we should deal with this issue should MJ/HC use patrilineal descent exclusively.  Thirdly, the book is too brief.  In just a few hundred pages, Dr. Fruchtenbaum has not given himself the opportunity to present a cohesive systematic theological outlook.  Rather, he has simply given us something that brings up issues but does not address the organic relationship they have to each other.  I'm not sure if he wrote this as his Master's Thesis or what, but it's not long enough (read: comprehensive) to pass must in my theology professor's classroom.  While the intent is good (and that is really what I'm awarding three stars for) there is a great deal more to be done, particularly if MJ/HC is to ever present a unified doctrinal front or even begin to come to some sort of real consensus on how it will behave and where it will go from its current standpoint.	2003-04-21
US	49037222	R8DDS3570E4JY	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Osama Inc.	Certainly, this was the easiest read that I have undertaken so far this year.  Peter Bergen writes with a journalists tenacity and an historians eye for preserving a comprehensive picture of the story for the future.  Clearly, he has done an awful lot of research for his book, traveling to Yemen, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan etc.  It would be hard for me to believe, based simply on the amount of traveling that he has done, that he is making this up.  Bergen also has the distinct advantage of being one of only a handful of western journalists who have ever interviewed Osama Bin Laden.  Additionally, he has been in extensive contact with current, former, and fringe members of Al-Qaeda, making him better able to present a comprehensive picture of the organization that has dominated the headlines for almost two years now.  Clearly, he has done a fair amount of homework.  However, one problem Bergen does have: while he may have a historian's eye, he certainly does not have the writing style of one.  His style is clipped, presenting facts almost as they come to mind as opposed to presenting a clear, comprehensive picture of Al-Qaeda.  Nevertheless, his style can be easily overcome and his offering is still thoroughly enjoyable.  If you want to gain a better appreciation of just how extensive Osama's reach is, this is the read for you.	2003-04-21
US	49037222	R11XA9VLHQ3MH8	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Case for Lee Strobel	As I have said with Josh McDowell's More Than Just a Carpenter, I will say with this: it makes a good introduction, but is not high scholarly stuff.  Now, I will admit this, Strobel makes a far better case in his book that McDowell, and he does it in a far more interesting manner.  That he interviewed some of the best Conservative Evangelical scholars on their opinions is a good thing.  My New Testament studies professor was unabashedly liberal and even he has a great respect for some of the names that Strobel dropped.  However, that is not to say the book is completely without issues.  First off, it is written at a rather rudimentary level, though not so much so that more advanced students will not be intrigued by it.  Secondly, Strobel, because he is a believer, will no doubt elicit cries of bias from some, though I believe that most fair minded readers will at least concede there is less bias than had he done them after his conversion.  Thirdly, there's not a lot that's &quot;scholarly&quot; about the book, mostly because it's written by a journalist.  For that reason, it leaves many questions such as authorship and dating either skimmed over or untouched.  It could make some readers wonder if Strobel was deliberately avoiding issues, or just didn't know what to ask (I'd like to think it was the latter).  In any event, it does begin to make the step from basic to intermediate apologetics and has the benefit of being current.  For those reasons, Strobel deserves at least some praise, though an individual will probably wind up needing reading a lot more than they bargained for to be able to use Strobel's work appropriately.	2003-04-15
US	49037222	R2GTZ9DDA8PU1L	1880226243	954859571	The Messianic Passover Seder Preparation Guide	Books	4	28	34	N	N	Valuable for Beginners	Here's something that was actually a good idea: how to have a Seder.  Now, that's not to say that there are not other books out there that explain how to make a Seder, and some that do so more in-depth, but for the individual who are just getting into the business of making a Passover Seder will be more than overwhelmed, especially the Christian who just wants to experience Pesach because of the Last Super.  In my experience, there are very few guides that tell a Christian how to make a Seder in practical terms and do so with a Christian nod.  And it are the practical terms that are the most important part of the book.  Most Jewish leader's guides or commentaries presuppose a basic knowledge of how Passover works, whereas most Christians do not even know what a Baytzah is let alone where it goes on the Seder plate.  For this reason, the Preparation Guide is great because of the very basic way the information is presented, and that the presentation is made in a Christian context.  Of course, my biggest complaint with this pamphlet (and that's what you've got here) is that it's not a full sized book.  There is so much information that is either glossed over or just completely ignored for whatever reason, but I suppose mostly for reasons of space.  Still, for the price, it can't be beat.	2003-04-15
US	49037222	R10D9DL3P80W6D	0842345523	285963315	More Than a Carpenter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Basic Introduction and Arguments	I read this book when I was in college.  For a while, it spurred in me a desire to read more in the area of Apologetics before my theology professor sparked my interest in Systematics.  I consider myself fairly well read on both sides of Apologetics arguments (and one has to be if they want to be an Apologeticist), and I found later that Carpenter is really a rather simple sort of book.  It's the sort of thing that's good for the average laymen.  It does teach very basic thought processes for someone just getting into the field, but it is woefully inadequate once a person gains more than a toehold.  This book would make a good tool to allow your average reader to engage in meaningful debate with a friend who is agnostic or atheist, but is equally unlearned in the subject.  However, the arguments and ideas McDowell presents have been around for a while and have been &quot;refuted&quot; or at least raised questions that the author never intended.  For that reason, and because it got so many into apologetics, I give the book a healthy four stars.  But, don't think by any means that it, or Lee Strobel for that matter, will make you an expert on the subject.	2003-04-15
US	49037222	R26DGC171N3MXG	0140444203	568905062	The Jewish War: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Get the Complete Works	For those of you who are interested in what the first Jewish revolt was like, this books if for you.  It's an eyewitness account to the events as they happen.  Consider it the \\"official history\\" of the conflict.  However, like all official histories, it shows a definite political slant.  Unlike other histories, however, this was written by the conquered.  The work is in the tone of an apology for Jewish actions and motivations during the war.  Still, there is a lot more information out there as Josephus wrote several books.  It is a better idea to go ahead and get the Complete Works of Josephus. The reason being is that there is a lot of information in his other work Antiquities of the Jews that is very important to understanding the conflict.  The Complete Works will also have The Jewish War in them.	2003-03-26
US	49037222	R369TNCKB25LYF	087784691X	724050977	New Testament Documents : Are They Reliable?	Books	5	54	63	N	Y	Still the One	F.F. Bruce is probably one of the finest New Testament scholars there ever was and possible there ever will be.  Why?  Because my New Testament Studies professor in college said so, despite disagreeing with every single conclusion Bruce ever made about authorship, dating, or importance of the various books of the New Testament, not because of a lack of scholarship or invalid arguments or data, but simply because he did not wish to have the same conclusions as Bruce.  That says a lot for a scholar.  In addition, the research he has done is superb and the writing style is sublime.  You will see other New Testament authors go into lengthy discussions on dating alone, but Bruce somehow manages to condense his entire argument into something that will fit in your shirt pocket.  That also says a lot, both for the man and the work.  The fact that it is still so widely regarded among not only NT studies folks but laymen only further proves its staying power.  However, despite its refreshing brevity, I do wish Bruce had taken the time to go into greater depth on the books themselves, tackling some of the more complex problems of authorship of more of the NT books.  Still, it's quite good and worth your time to read no matter which side of the fence you're on.	2003-03-25
US	49037222	RSPWKVTDTSXNE	0375753974	683606071	Pontius Pilate	Books	2	7	19	N	Y	Invented Biography	Let's be honest.  None of us really knows anything about Pontius Pilate, the antihero of the Passion.  Even Wroe admits that much.  Despite that, she attempts to write what starts out as a very promising biography.  Of course, there are a couple of problems with her work.  First, while she starts out using the experiences of other Roman procurators and governors, her work ends up being a survey of every major medieval play about the Passion there is.  Second, she consistently derides the Gospel accounts (some of her only actual period references)and any period work that mentions him, with the exception of Josephus.  Granted, other authors may have had an agenda in their writing, but that does not lessen their authenticity or value.  Third, her interpretations of Pilate's actions are, at best, a stretch.  I won't go into more detail on that one.  Fourth, the majority of the last half of the book is written like a play, making it less a scholarly work and more a work of fiction.  Fifth, her scholarships resounds with gross generalizations.  If she had submitted even part of this to any professor in my department, especially our NT prof., she would have received a more or less instant F, for her lack of scholarship and for my sixth compliant, which is she uses not one single footnote, parenthetical reference, or allusion to a single scholarly work.  She won't even cite the biblical passages or those of Josephus (both of which are big no-nos).  That leads me to believe she does not intend her work to be scholarly (in which case it should stop being promoted as such), she plagiarized everything, or she just doesn't care.  By this point, some may be wondering why I didn't give her one star.  It's because the initial chapters are rich with USEFUL information, but are totally overshadowed by later musings.  In short, instead of being under religious studies, it should be under theatre for all the attention it gives to the Acta Piliti.	2003-03-25
US	49037222	R3HRN3VLCSAK5V	0785214267	580137710	Josephus: The Complete Works	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Indespensible	As a person who works in the field of New Testament Studies and more specifically 1st century Jewish/Christian liturgy, I can tell you that the complete works of Josephus are almost as indispensable as the Biblical and Talmudic texts themselves.  Josephus works as an apologist for the Jews to the Romans, and a dedicated historian.  He collects streams of tradition concerning the evolution of the Jewish people that we might not otherwise have.  Because of his mentioning of Jesus and some of his disciples (most notably John and James), his work has been under intense scrutiny.  However, he does have the benefit of being contemporaneous to the events, something we as modern scholars are not, despite what we may or may not like to think.  This is the work of a man who wanted to set the record straight, and he is concerned with records that the Hebrew Bible was too early for, the NT was unconcerned with, and the Talmud missed entirely.  If you really want to know what first century Jews, especially the aristocracy, thought about anything, Josephus, along with Philo, is your guy.	2003-03-24
US	49037222	R3A1YESAM8UTX8	0966474015	468454574	The Leader's Guide to The Family Participation Haggadah "A Different Night"	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Plain Jane Supplement	Though I was very impressed with the Haggadah A DIFFERENT NIGHT, its companion Leader's Guide leaves you wanting more.  There are more additions, exploitations, and stimuli than you could ever get through in a single night, and probably several years of Sederim.  Probably the best chapter was the one which had several quotes about freedom (some of which could be found in the Haggadah proper), but it would be difficult to work much of that into the Seder itself.  Another valuable portion was the Halakhic minimums of the Seder (though for a Haggadah that prides itself on exposition, publishing the minimum of anything seems a little absurd), though it only listed those minimums.  No attempt was made to expound on WHY they are the minimums.  Indeed, there was little to no discussion of the legal requirements of anything in the Seder, somewhat of a disappointment to me.  In any case, for the person who likes to have it all, this and the Haggadah will certainly give it to you.  Just don't say I didn't warn you when you get information overload.	2003-03-07
US	49037222	R1XWXGVPII50PK	0966474007	68088908	A Different Night, The Family Participation Haggadah	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	A Different Haggadah	It would be too easy to state what Noam Zion and David Dishon have done, or potentially done, the content and variety available for one Seder.  This particular Haggadah is crammed with all sorts of information and stimulus.  That is both a compliment and a criticism.  Unfortunately, while it is jam-packed with lots of good things, the amount of information can be distracting or, worse, a turn off.  Additionally, while everything is organized along the lines of the traditional Seder, it's not always easy to find some of the extraneous information.  Additionally, the large number of inserts can frustrate or just plain annoy a reader.  Nevertheless, there are many positive things to say about this Haggadah.  First, the variety of information probably means you will never have to buy another Haggadah again, or at least not another leader's assistant.  There are enough activities to be fresh every year.  Second, the text and Hebrew transliterations are fluid and easy to read.  The two authors have gone all out to produce this Haggadah, and it shows in the quality of the work and the price of the volume.  That in mind, you may want to buy one copy to serve as an idea catalyst and a less expensive Haggadah for general use.  It is well worth the price to buy one and those with larger budgets will benefit from additional copies.	2003-03-07
US	49037222	RFTPNRELQLTRG	0899061788	790133546	Family Haggadah: Hagadah Shel Pesah (Artscroll Mesorah Series) (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Great Reference	As a person who has studied Passover professionally (I wrote my senior thesis in college on the subject), I can tell you that there is probably no better deal on the market than this little gem.  It's compact and inexpensive, yet is thoroughly Orthodox.  Even though I use a different haggadah (and have a vast collection of different haggadot), I still use this one as a primary reference and as the one that says in my bag when I'm doing research.  Of course, the price is unbeatable.  You can get enough copies for an entire family before you've paid the price for one copy of just about any other haggadah.  That makes this a fabulous package, and one that is well worth picking up.	2003-03-06
US	49037222	R1AENNH1C38KKO	0785275185	209907739	The Feasts of the Lord: God's Prophetic Calendar from Calvary to the Kingdom	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	Well thought out	Howard and Rosenthal have made quite a mark for themselves in Jewish-Christian scholarship.  Much of their effort is to link the Hebrew Bible festivals to a New Testament observance and belief system.  By all regards, they accomplish their goal quite well.  However, the book is not written as in-depth as I would have liked to have seen.  There is a wealth of information out there as to what the church father thought about the seven festivals, and it would have been nice if there had been an acknowledgement of that fact.  Additionally, the binding can be poor at times, particularly if one makes extensive use of it.  On the whole, not bad and still well thought out.	2003-03-04
US	49037222	R364BEX0KF2BPV	0385247672	6195980	An Introduction to the New Testament (Anchor Bible Reference Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Absolutly Fabulous	Raymond Brown has once again proven with this volume why he is one of the greatest New Testament scholars in the world today.  His thoroughness is unsurpassed.  He intricately explains each point in detail, leaving very little for the dedicated reader to continue to wonder about.  Still, it does its best to raise healthy questions and by no means considers itself to be the definitive work.  It only presents a main line scholarly perspective, sticking straight to the middle and not giving much voice to fundamental or liberal interpretations except to acknowledge their existence.  Still, the book is quite wonderful and makes one of the best references out there for anyone interested in New Testament studies.	2003-03-04
US	49037222	R31KLIKVEGK08B	156686903X	999017626	Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not just for cheating	I bought this guide and was accused of &quot;cheating&quot; by one of my friends.  Actually, I suppose I was, though the first time I played the game I resisted the temptation to simply &quot;play by the book.&quot;  It was difficult, but I was victorious.  Needless to say, the second time I played through, I was a stronger, more powerful character.  While them not giving away every secret on every page for just the casual reader, it was frustrating to have to read almost fifty pages ahead to find something out.  Additionally, sometimes the lack of information hindered rather than helped.  Most of the maps were excellent, though not all of the displays were accurate enough for my taste.  Additionally, the binding is rather flimsy and the book, with extensive use, would literally come to shreds.  I did not notice any great amount of typos or misspellings in the guide, as one reviewer pointed out.  Finally, I will say that one advantage is this guide is more or less compatible with both the PlayStation and PC versions (with the exception of which buttons to push).	2003-03-03
US	49037222	R24IPM4PCH1YQL	0745602975	687591610	Ancient Judaism: Biblical Criticism from Max Weber to the Present	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Conservative Agenda	Zeitlin could be a champion for a conservative approach to ancient Jewish studies.  I actually came across this book in a college class I was in, and was immediately struck with the thoroughness of the book.  He tends to rely heavily on a literary critical methodology, but he uses it in ways I have never seen before.  His discussion of the conquest and Monarchical religion are particularly enlightening.  I will say that he made me think about issues in ways I had never tried before.  Additionally, he actually changed my opinion about the way Paganism and religious syncretism worked in Ancient Israel.  I won't give his views away because have the fun will be reading them for the first time for yourself.  Nevertheless, I will say that the discussion on the history of Documentary Hypostasis in the Appendix is worth the price of admission.	2003-03-02
US	49037222	R2IMCZUNV0GP6J	0893903132	802634238	Rediscovering Passover: A Complete Guide for Christians	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Worthy Effort	Stallings did something good.  He brought out several misconceptions about the Last Supper (i.e., that it was an all male event).  He additionally attempted to give us insight into the goings on of the week leading up to that fateful Passover from a cultural perspective.  However, he made one severe (and common) error: He juxtaposed later Jewish cultural and religious traditions onto the first century disciples of Jesus.  Fortunately (or unfortunately depending on your perspective), these sort of mistakes are all too common, so he has done no worse than many other authors on the same and similar subjects.  Additionally, such mistakes did not mar the book so much so as to prevent me from lending it out to a friend who knew little to nothing about Jewish culture in general and first century culture in particular.	2003-03-02
US	49037222	R36C2WYSMQ49MZ	0268006113	945103806	After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory, Second Edition	Books	4	5	14	N	Y	Mr. MacIntyre's Opus	In truth, I'm still a bit perplexed by this book.  I understand what MacIntyre is trying to combat, namely Emotivism, but I'm not exactly sure what he wants to replace it with. From my reading, he seems to want some sort of blending of Christian ethics with Greek hero morality, two systems that are ultimately contrary.  Perhaps that's entirely wrong and I simply was unable to follow the lines of argument he used.  Of course, I did have a hard time with some of his points.  He jumped around a fair amount, as well as glossed over several important points that needed more explanation.  However, his work was not totally in vain as he did succeed in eradicating much of the basis for Emotivism.  Still, that was only half the job, and he only completed part of the remainder of the task.  So, in summary, good for arguments against Emotivism, bad for arguments for anything else.	2003-03-02
US	49037222	R269SCMU8S7A51	006063796X	317644879	The Moral Vision of the New Testament: Community, Cross, New Creation, A Contemporary Introduction to New Testament Ethics	Books	3	33	68	N	Y	Wanting for Authority	Richard Hays has undertaken a highly important project.  He is attempting to devise a system of morality for the modern era based on New Testament ethics.  He approaches the subject systematically, attempting to discern what exactly it was that New Testament writers thought on a variety of subjects, from abortion to violence.  Sometimes, his conclusions are exactly those of the writers themselves.  However, on homosexuality, his conclusions are a bit forced.  He does not seek to discourage it (though several NT authors do, most notably Paul in Romans), perhaps out of fear of offending some within society.  But, he does not encourage it either.  In the end, he effectively eliminates the possibility of homosexual union, but does not go so far as to impose abstinence on such persons, regardless that the Bible (more than just the NT) regards the practice as an \\"abomination.\\"  Therefore, Hays loses an opportunity to take a definitive stand on a subject.  His inability to follow a strict line of interpretation therefore throws into doubt the rest of his conclusions, not for their lack of validity, but simply by association.  In that regards, while Hays has taken an important step to get us thinking about such matters, he has more or less failed to provide anything of any real substance because on one point he refuses to draw his conclusions based on a strict biblical exegesis.	2003-03-02
US	49037222	R7ALFD055SNZX	1565077954	544054693	Bruce & Stan's Guide to the Bible: Understanding God's All-Time Bestseller	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Too Simple	Perhaps by the time I got to this particular book, it was already a bit beneath me.  Still, it seemed to me that the arguments presented were simplistic.  For example, the &quot;discussion&quot; with Paul and law betrayed a distinct anti-legalistic bias, and did so in what totally ignored the finer (and not so fine) points of what is in reality a highly complex debate.  Nevertheless, I suppose it would have some benefit for those starting out in the Biblical studies field, though my more liberal colleagues would probably disagree.	2003-03-02
US	49037222	R2BIT4RO0GQ1CN	0967547903	988558354	The Christian Passover: What Does It Mean? When Should It Be Observed--the 14th or the 15th? Second Edition	Books	1	7	26	N	N	Total Failure	I wish I could give this book a lower review.  Not only is the scholarship suspect, the majority of the scripture references are either from the KJV (which has its own set of scholarly issues) or the author's own translation.  Of course, there are a lot of references, so that's a lot of translating, and there are NO credentials given by Mr. Coulter as to his fluency in Greek OR Hebrew OR his ability to translate.  For that matter, how can he be translating Hebrew and Greek when he can't even write well in English?  Most of the book is written in capitals and/or bold/italics, making for a very, very hard read.  It gets better: the ideas and theology of Coulter are unorthodox at best and lean more towards heretical.  Coulter is anti-Semitic, anti-Judaism, and anti-Traditional, all of which come across boldly, proudly in this book.  He demonstrates a complete lack of historical understanding of the Passover ritual DESPITE pleading to history to legitimize his beliefs.  In short, this book isn't worth the paper it's printed on.  Trust me, you're better off not being able to buy it because it's out of print.  This book essentially amounts as venomous rage and misunderstanding masquerading as legitimate scholarship.  I only wish I were allowed to give a negative rating...wait, I can do that here.  This book gets -2 stars.  Oh, and do yourself a favor...don't ever buy any of this guy's stuff...it only encourages him.	2002-01-26
US	49037222	RW4H3U3JYX4EG	0806621338	380330321	Passover Seder: Ritual and Menu for an Observance by Christians	Books	1	5	7	N	Y	Just another Haggadah	Like the title suggests, this is just another Haggadah, and for that matter, it isn't all that great, at least not as Haggadahs go.  Here's the problem: Though it is purported to be for Christians to celebrate Passover, and is written by a Jewish Christian, it naturally looks down on any Christian interpretation of the holiday.  In that, it demonstrates a negative bias towards Messianism AND the scholarship in the introduction is poor at best.  In addition, the liturgical sections are brief and rudimentary, as if Christians who are not Jews and celebrating Passover would not be interested in the Rabbinically required in-depth discussions of the Exodus, but rather will be satisfied with minimal intellectual stimulation so they can get to the good stuff, namely dinner.  The section at the end deals with Kosher menus, and while the reader is told to keep Kosher, there is no explanation of what that entails.  Not to be down on Ms. Thompson, but there really are better Haggadahs out there that are not \\"designed\\" for Christians.  I use them.  They're very good.  Try one of them first, and get this one only if you just can't get a better traditional one.	2002-01-26
US	49037222	R2YV26376FLDQ6	0060674296	67748143	Resurrection: Myth or Reality?	Books	1	19	58	N	N	Faith in Vain	I don't want my money back, I really don't.  I was just wondering if someone would refund me the life I spent reading this book?  I may be an ignorant savage, but I do know without a resurrection, there is no Christanity and there is definatly no reason for me to believe in its validity.  I might as well go back to Judaism if Sprong is right.  So please, will someone give me back the life I just spent on this drivel?  Please??	2001-12-24
US	49037222	RGUHW35UWMPS0	1880226073	434118764	The Messianic Passover Haggadah	Books	3	22	35	N	N	Needs Work	First off, this Haggadah is very, very thin.  There are thirty-two total pages, minimal Hebrew, and a lot of dead space and illustrations.  The text is also limited in that it does not present a very Messianic feel, except for a few quotes from the New Testament and using the name Yeshua here and there.  Another thing that bothered me, simply from a stylistic point of view, is that this Haggadah reads from left to right instead of right to left.  I cannot recall the last time I saw a Haggadah written like that.  It is really deserving of two stars, but I gave it three because there are very few Messianic Haggadot on market, and this one is actually one of the decent ones.	2001-12-21
US	49037222	R2U6LX6W4KZMYF	0736900748	341780554	Encyclopedia of Cults and New Religions: Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism, Mind Sciences, Baha'i, Zen, Unitarianism (In Defense of the Faith)	Books	3	18	34	N	N	Still Needs Work	Most of the other reviewers on this page have condemned this work as being little more than &quot;biased,&quot; &quot;hate-mongering&quot; and &quot;bad.&quot;  Thier reason?  The work looks at small religious traditions in the light of 1. how they measure up to (Traditional) Christianity and 2. what thier beliefs are in general (that makes me wonder how much, if any, of the book most of them read).  Now, granted, it is a little biased to stack up a religion next Christianity, but since many of these &quot;cults&quot; claim to either be a supplement to, the fulfillment of, or the true and origional version of Christianity, it only makes sense to look at them as they compare to the beliefs of Traditional Christians (that is, Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant).  This is especially valuable in the case of Mormon or Jehovah's Witnesses since both claim to be legitimate Christiantiy and are often listed as such.  As for the other religions subject to scrutinazation in this book...well it is important to remember that all of them are hostile to Tradtional Christianity (in much the same way every other reviewer is) and this is the encyclopedia of cults and NEW religions (though there is no concrete meaning of what exactally New is).  In any case, this book does have a few problems.  Number one, it give enormous treatment to some subjects (i.e., CofJCofLDS and JW's), but there is less than a page on many.  It would valuable to expand some of these areas while tappering off the larger articles in any revision of the book.  Second, despite Chrstianity being the measuring line to which all is compared, there is no definition of what exactally Christianity is anywhere that I have seen.  On the whole, it is a valuable reference work for anyone looking for information on cults, just as long as you believe Christianity; otherwise, all bets are off and you too will probably hate this book.  But that's OK...it wasn't written for the non-Christian anyway.	2001-12-06
US	49037222	RGEWE53DOX8SQ	0913836583	566465397	The Orthodox Way	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Very Brief Introduction	Let me start off by telling you what this book is and what it is not via the context I was introduced to it: It was in a systematic theology class.  That is the context to which THE ORTHODOX WAY is best suited.  It is distinctly a theological explination of what Orthodoxy is in terms of theological ideas and beliefs.  It is not the what but rather the why.  Having said that, it is an excellent condensation of Orthodox theology in reletivly easy to grasp language.  This makes sense as the book was intended for those new to Orthodoxy.  However, while there is some explination of ritual, this book is concerned with what the Orthodox person believes, not what he or she does.  Still, it should not be passed up by one who wants an introduction to Orthodoxy.  On the whole, not bad.  I recomend it if you've got some spare change.	2001-12-06
US	49037222	R2FVTUE3J6NPXJ	0684848171	403320766	Making the Corps	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but Dated	At the time it was written, MAKING THE CORPS was the finest work I had seen on the basic training of US Marines.  My cousin read it just before leaving for Paris Island and was able to vouch for much of the book.  However, in recent years, there has been a surge of material related to Basic Training.  Recently, the Discovery Channel released two videos on Recruit Training in the Marines: one at San Diego and one for Paris Island.  They make up for where MAKING THE CORPS lacks.  For one thing, they view the two hubs of training, which are vastly different.  Ask any Marine.  Second, they focus more on training exercises than MTC.  They also have more pictures.  However, MTC does have strong points.  First, it shows the interrelation the Marines to the other branches of service (the Army and their RTC in particular).  Second, it gives you more a cultural feel for the Marines than the Discovery Channel's Behind the Scenes specials do.  Third, it follows the stories of individuals going through basic, something the book does very, very well.  It also follows many of their first years as Marines.  The book is well worth the read, simply because you get a more in-depth feel for Recruit Training as it is done at Paris Island.  It is also not terrible taxing to read and, in general, will captivate your attention through its style and presentation.  It is defiantly worth the buy, especially for an historical perspective on Recruit Training, which has undergone much change in the past five years.	2001-11-27
US	49037222	R2ANTO4U9A9T8N	0385473060	713167906	Rabbi Talks with Jesus, A	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Good Concept, Bad Followthrough	In this book, Jacob Neusner seems to be attempting to find a common ground for interfaith dialogue.  He does so by addressing Jesus as if he were really in the first century.  The premise is to demonstrate how Jewish Jesus is.  A good notion, but Neusner fails at it miserably.  The main problems result from the responses of Jesus.  We must really ask ourselves would Jesus answer with the words Neusner gives him.  That brings up two questions: 1, did Jesus consider himself the Messiah and 2, if he so, did Jesus also think he was divine?  If any Christian were to write this book, obviously the answers would be yes.  Of course, Neusner, writing from his own theological perspective, discounts two entirely and really hedges his bets on one.  So, his own ideas in reality override those of Jesus.  Also, using JUST Matthew's Gospel presents a unique problem in that it's not a &quot;whole&quot; picture of Jesus.  In undertaking a job like this, one must use as much information as available.  That is, at least the synoptic Gospels and at best all four.  The limitations Neusner places on his work thus inhibit it's own natural growth.  The writing was also horrible.  The book, aside from the dialogue, followed no particular though pattern and seemed clouded in the general construction of the text.  Of course, there are some redeeming qualities of the work.  For one thing, it does give a Jewish perspective on the teachings of Jesus, though there are works out there that do so with vastly greater amounts of clarity than this.  In all, a well conceived (though poorly executed) project, worthy of two stars if for nothing else than he had a good idea.	2001-11-27
US	49037222	RE1XLZSIXYTZJ	0380728745	86951364	The Teams: An Oral History of the U.S. Navy Seals	Books	3	2	3	N	N	You Can Do Better Than That	When I pick up a book on the oral history of the Navy SEALs, I expect a book about the SEALs, or at least stories from SEALs.  That is NOT what this book is.  It is more a collection of stories from members of UDT as they were being phased out and SEALs were coming in, some of whom became SEALs, many of whom did not.  It should have included more interviews from people who started with the SEALs, as well as those who switched to SEALs from UDT so as to present a more balanced approach to the story.  At least, that is what I would have preferred to see.  However, the book was by no means a failure.  The stories of the men interviewed were well worth purchase price. But the book really could have focused more on the stories of SEALs as opposed to UDT.	2001-11-27
US	49037222	RNVWUOEE4Q7DL	1558197095	673685877	Holman Bible Atlas: A Complete Guide to the Expansive Geography of Biblical History (Broadman & Holman Reference)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	If you haven't got it, get one	Hands down, this is one of the best atlases I have seen of the Ancient Near East.  And it presents the majority consensus of scholars today in terms of geographical distributions, routes taken, culture and history.  Just reading the text alone is worth the price of admission.  I must confess, though, that I am a map junkie and would loved to have seen more maps.  As it stands, however, this atlas still makes an outstanding resource.  I simply can't think of a better way to describe it.  If you're a serious Bible student, or even a not so serious one, you should defiantly get one.  Put it on your Christmas list or whatever, but pick up a copy.	2001-11-27
US	49037222	R1JYGHQZH8BQ0G	0440235316	937253106	Air Warriors: The Inside Story of the Making of a Navy Pilot	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Top One?	Beyond a doubt, this has to be one of the better books I have read on the training of Naval Aviators.  Having myself once aspired to earn the wings of gold (I can no longer because my eyes went bad on me), I was obviously interested in the subject material.  However, it could have been presented in a more logical fashion.  The stories of individuals, though interesting, were not appropriate, mostly because they were not long enough.  Had he spent time with the same individuals through their entire training, it might have helped developed their place in the story a bit more.  It would appear that Mr Waller is attempting to emulate Thomas Rick's MAKING THE CORPS, but he is not successful.  On the whole, it is still a worthy attempt and is in truth deserving of three and a half stars, but that category is not available.  Worth the read.  While you're at it, get Tom Clancy's CARRIER for life in the fleet.	2001-11-14
US	49037222	R1NZJWBWR4VI9O	9653590189	38324771	Complete Jewish Bible : An English Version of the Tanakh (Old Testament) and B'Rit Hadashah (New Testament)	Books	3	68	90	N	N	Oy Vey	I sense two trends as I read the reviews of others on this Bible translation: 1, Messianic Jews who thing this is the greatest thing since sliced bread and 2, Traditional Jews who think that David Stern is an evil man because he is believer in Jesus yet maintains he's a Jew. However, in all of this, I see very little treatment of the work itself, hence my groan of disapproval at everybody. So, it looks like I'm going to have to do it. The fact of the matter is that this translation does very little in regards to \\"shedding light\\" on the Jewishness of either the Tanak or the New Testament...in reality, the main thing it does is add Hebrew words here and there, and all the names are Hebrew names. You'll get just as much befit from the NIV, NASB or (for the scholar in you) the NRSV. It is helpful in that it lists all the Torah and Haftorah portions as well as a New Testament addition for each. Now, a note to everyone out there: Get a life. For those who just can't get over how good this Bible is, there are better ones out there. You like this one? That's good, but don't let it be the only one you ever read, because there are several other good translations out there. For those who think this is a \\"travesty\\" and are thoroughly angered by it: not everybody is out to convert you. If you don't believe that Jesus is the Messiah, that's your prerogative, but you can't assume that those who are out to get you.	2001-10-18
US	49037222	R189VJ4CONMUTG	0310218039	810531498	Eli	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Should have been better	Bill Meyers hit on something good when he came up with the idea for Eli.  What if Jesus had been in the sixties instead of 1 BC?  However, he doesn't take the idea to it's full limit.  For example, &quot;churches&quot; are very important in his book, but there was not such thing as a church we know today until after the time of Jesus.  Worship was held in synagogues and the temple (perhaps this was a deliberate deletion to avoid offending Jewish sensibilities).  Second, the book was frustrating with the switching back and forth between realities.  I would have preferred to have seen just a straight up story, no premise whatsoever, other than Jesus has show up.  Perhaps that would be a good question for Meyers to take on in his next book: &quot;What would the gospel have to say if it had been written about a Jesus who came 2000 years after he did in our reality?&quot;  Not a bad idea.  It was good to see the modernization of the gospel stories in the book.  That was a nice touch if you are familiar with the way the stories are told in the New Testament.  However, if you really want a modern day Jesus, check out THE JUDAS PROJECT, a movie based on the same subject and released before ELI.  Overall, not bad.  Just don't try to think to hard when you read it.	2001-10-18
US	49037222	R3IE9LTR8WZBIJ	0801038596	326738463	Answering Islam: The Crescent in Light of the Cross	Books	4	19	27	N	N	Theologically Rich	Answering Islam is indeed a very good book for those who are looking for a better understanding of Islam, Muslim views on Christianity, and how to present the Gospel to a Muslim person.  The book has added credibility in that the co-author, Abdul Saleeb, is himself a former Muslim.  The book is valuable in light of the current world events because, while it does not praise Islam, it also does not attack, and rather presents a balanced view of the religion.  There are negative aspects to the book, however.  For one thing, it is theologically deep, especially in the last third, and may be difficult for the layman to get into.  Second, it reads like a textbook and is not user friendly.  However, if you can get past those two points, it is well worth the read.	2001-10-17
US	49037222	R2LPMW575OL9WW	0899007325	936124138	The Historical Jesus: Ancient Evidence for the Life of Christ	Books	5	13	24	N	Y	There will never be enough evidence	It's not easy to talk about Jesus.  The reason is that Jesus is a religious figure, revered by some and reviled by other.  No matter what, though, you get a reaction out of him.  Any discussion you have of Jesus will reflect one of two opinions you have: you believe Jesus is the Messiah or you do not.  Whatever your opinion is will color your argument.  Having said that, it is important to look for the historical Jesus.  Did he live?  Did he die?  When?  Where was he born?  All these things are important not because we don't know the answers, but because Christianity claims to be historical faith based on the historical actions of an historical person.  Those who would lambaste Christianity have decided the best way to do it is through Jesus; if he didn't exist, then neither does Christianity.  That's why it is important to see someone like Hanabars look at the historical Jesus, but as a believer and scholar, as opposed to an agnostic scholar or worse.  However, no matter how much evidence we find for or against, Jesus still has to be looked at in faith because without faith, it is impossible to please G-d.	2001-10-17
US	49037222	R36EX0VX9UIWOR	0028610105	755707312	How To Cook Everything: Simple Recipes for Great Food	Books	5	5	6	N	N	If not everything...	If Mark Bittner hasn't taught us how to cook everything in this book, he's come pretty darn close.  With more than 800 pages of recipes, tips, tricks, advice, and down to earth chat, you can be sure he's covered all the bases at least once.  OK, so you won't be able to cook all the more obscure ethnic foods...that's OK.  You'll be able to cook most of them.  And, the recipes are incredible simple.  I forget just how many different meals he has in there that you can cook in less than thirty minutes.  Oh, and let's not forget the guide to buying foods.  He teaches you the nuances of buying specific types of fresh fruit and vegetables, as well as various types of meats.  The buyer's guide alone is worth the price of admission.  Warning: If you buy this cookbook, it will be the last one you need...and you'll use it often, too.  Do yourself a favor and put it in your shopping cart now.  You'll be glad you did.	2001-08-19
US	49037222	RG2KFBNNHG4KK	0312252846	466789292	Gideon's Spies: The Secret History of the Mossad	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Secret Agent Man	One review on the back of the book states, in part, &quot;good enough to be a movie.&quot;  This is certainly true.  Combining fact, speculation, and a healthy mix of narrative, Gordon Thomas makes GIDEON'S SPIES an excellent read.  He painstakingly peels back layer after layer of the spy organization few have heard of and even fewer know anything about.  It has a ground zero, you are there feel, that &quot;tells it like it is.&quot;  You'll be shocked by the shear audacity of some of Mossad's actions, and you'll read disbelievingly The Mossad's involvement in stories straight off the front page of the newspaper.  While some of it does seem a little far out, Thomas keeps you interested.  GIDEON'S SPIES will grab your attention from the first page and never let go.	2001-08-19
US	49037222	R37HAXZ1UDJ50W	0764563041	346144291	Jewish Cooking For Dummies?	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Good Cookin'	If you've never had to make homemade Challah before (or you dont even know what that is) and always wanted to learn how, this the book for you.  Jewish Cooking for Dummies is the perfect book for the novice Jewish chef.  It has recipes for every major holiday, and some not so major ones, with recipes for every day of the week.  Faye Levy, who has previously written other books on Jewish cooking, delivers again with a well thought out book.  There are tips for keeping kosher, for substitutions, for making things faster.  It's everything you need if youre just starting out in the Jewish kitchen or in a kitchen in general.  The only real complaint I have is that the recipes are very basic and that there aren't enough to go around.  Also, many to the recipes take longer to make than listed in the book, especially when you first start making them.  You gradually improve, but plan a little bit of a cushion into your work time.	2001-08-19
US	49037222	R2GSE8TUPUA5GT	0812094689	994226728	501 Hebrew Verbs : Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Follow Format alphabetically Arranged by Root	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Great Resource	On the whole, I use this book as much if not more than I do the dictionary.  The reason is simple: you get the shoresh and the binyan with every single verb, a must in a university level Hebrew class.  This book probably won't be much use to the beginner (it's real value lies with the shoresh and binyan/gizrah, and, to a less extent, with the past and future conjugations of the verbs).  However, if you ever plan on getting past the bare bones basics (i.e., if you want to be able to say more than &quot;Shalom&quot; and &quot;Ayfo ha Mesahdah?&quot;), then you will want to pick it up.  The reason I gave the book four stars is that it was written left to right as opposed to the more correct right to left.  However, while this is quite unnatural, it can be overcome.	2001-03-02
US	49037222	R33VXEOSEFVV53	0452011213	214524439	The Meridian Hebrew/English English/Hebrew Dictionary (Reference) (Hebrew Edition)	Books	2	13	16	N	N	Poor Dictionary	The main problem I have with this dictionary is that it is confusing to follow.  For example, the English word &quot;Have&quot; has 10 to 20 different possible translations to Hebrew (I say 10 to 20 because the list is jumbled and individual words/phrases are not distinct).  You'd think that the first word listed was the common Hebrew word to be used.  Unfortunatly, it's not.  The word is &quot;HYH&quot; (hi-YA), which means to be or to have been (I was taught the latter).  And that's just one example.  I have spent hours attempting to translate one paragraph from English to Hebrew simply because I had to go thorugh a very long list of words to get a translation I wanted, and sometimes you don't get it at all.  The Meridian needs some very, very substantial revisions so that it can be more eaisly used by students at all levels of fluency.  On the other hand, it's not a total wast because it does go from Hebrew to English relativly smoothly, although it does not list verbs with thier shoresh or the binyan and gizrah they are in, something that really is necessary if you're taking Hebrew above the gramer school level (I, personally, started in college).  If it did, it might be a little more helpful.  Overall, I recomend that you try another dicitionary, preferably one a little easier to read.	2001-02-13
US	49037222	R1WCG7G1XBQQRA	1878990853	381674814	The Basics of Life (The Artists Devotional Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Go Behind the Music	If you thought all they could do was sing, think again.  4 Him has once again proved their diverse talent by writing a highly successful devotional series, drawing from stories related to many of the band's hits over the past decade.  This book is a must for any 4 Him fan and isn't a bad idea for everyone else.  Each member of the group offers insights into life based on a Biblical worldview and the lyrics to their number one hits.  You defiantly do not want to miss out on this one.	2001-01-06
US	49037222	R34JDF0AX9EAPF	080106063X	11526128	Answering Jewish Objections to Jesus: General and Historical Objections, Vol. 1	Books	5	27	40	N	N	Just the Tip of the Iceberg...	Brown's book is really a much-needed work in apologetics.  Before, it was difficult to fine a section that dealt with why some Jewish people refuse to accept Jesus as our Messiah.  Now, we have an entire three books.  I'm not sure I like the &quot;debate&quot; format of the book, because the believer always gets &quot;the last word,&quot; but it does help present the information in a logical flow.  The reader, if he or she is intending to use the information in the book, should be prepared to question the material so they will be better prepared for questions they might receive about their argument.  ANSWERING JEWISH OBJECTIONS TO JESUS is a great book for every Christian, not just Jewish Christians or those who interact with Jews.  The book doesn't pull punches too much, so you might be stepping on some toes with it, but that's a part of the game.  Read this one, you'll be glad you did.	2001-01-05
US	49037222	RL45FCJRJCJV6	084991485X	989375713	The Embarrassed Believer: Reviving Christian Witness in an Age of Unbelief	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Hewitt Shouldn't Be Embarrassed About This One	It was a good read. Hewitt doesn't try to spare anyone's feelings during the book, including his own. He hits hard and doesn't pull any punches on the Embarrassed Believers, but delivers a matter of fact lay out. It's not high Christology (you theology majors know what I'm talking about); it doesn't claim to be. But should still challenge even the most seasoned believer. I think the end was a little lacking because it left a lot of questions and provoked thought, but doesn't really give you an answer to the questions it raises...it doesn't even really make a step in the direction of answering questions. However, I would still recommend that you read it. It's worth the small amount of effort you need to get through it and you'll have more than your fair share of food for thought.	2001-01-03
US	49037222	R1607Y7PJGUPPN	0849940958	8142754	The Handwriting of God	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not as Bad as Some People Think	Jeffery does a very good job with this one.  It's not a course in theology, but a basic introduction to orthodox Christian belief.  In the book, you will find a discussion of the Bible Code, an introduction the historical reliability of the New Testament and a basic discussion of the pitfalls of the theory of Evolution.  Some people dislike the book because it answers questions from an objective, &quot;hard science&quot; point of view.  The problem is, they have a predisposition to disbelief (I remember hearing once that if the other side says that it's just horrible based on what it talks about, there's got to be a little something to it, and it certainly holds true here).  In any event, this is not a book you want to give a non-Christian, but it is a good one to prepare you for a basic discussion.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R10N1VA7VJ1P12	0310385709	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A New Kind of Jesus	Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, sweetest name I know.  A hymn sung so often by so many in church, but how sweet was the name of Jesus to people in the first century?  For that matter, how much of Jesus in churches today is the Jesus of the first century.  Phillip Yancey takes a hard look at Jesus in the New Testament, the real source of our ideas about Jesus, and tries to paint a picture of the man who is both simple in his message and yet complex in his actions.  Even if you don't agree with everything Yancey says, he will make you think about your ideas of Jesus, and maybe introduce you to a new kind of Jesus, a Jesus that you never even knew.  Also recommended: The NIV Knowing Jesus Study Bible.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R8UJGUUV3L99L	0921714408	325370344	Armageddon: Appointment with Destiny	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good, but Sounds Like a Conspiracy Theory in Places	Jeffery has updated his 1990 book and re-released it.  There isn't a whole lot of new information, but it's still good stuff.  He talks about prophecies and ideas that no one even touches (i.e., the Magog/Israli war and the Second Exodus), but parts of it sound like a conspiracy theory novel (the location and return of the Ark of the Covenant).  Still, on the whole, not a bad read and really informative.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	RMA2N8XRKDOPJ	0310269911	131747966	Revelation, Illustrated and Made Plain	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Don't Bother Here...	If you really want this book, it's because you're into collecting them.  If you don't collect, get REVELATION UNVEILED, the current update for this book.  I have copies of both and I like REVELATION UNVEILED simply because it uses the NIV whereas this edition uses the KJV.  Other than that, the two books are identical, so do yourself a favor and by the newer version.  You'll be glad you did.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R256KT1PU3REGL	0310921260	61722752	Knowing Jesus Study Bible, The	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Knowing You, Jesus; There is no greater thing...	This is a fantastic Bible! I've been through all 365 devotionals and I've read every single letter of the in text thoughts.  It tries to point out intricacies that might not be otherwise noticed by the casual reader (for example: the incident between Tamar and Judah that created David's family line) because you read something in one book and five books (or more) later, the significance is revealed.  I highly recommend it.  It is the NIV translation, which may be a stumbling block for some people, but the NIV is probably the most supported translation in the world.  I recommend that you get the softcover version because it is only a one year devotional Bible, so you don't want to spend too much on it. However, it's something you'll probably want to keep for a long time.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R2YVINLV0H5X0C	0310228344	64463183	The Bible Jesus Read	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Appreciation of the Hebrew Cannon	Yancey does it again, and this time on a subject near and dear to me: The Hebrew Cannon (AKA, the Old Testament, or TaNaK).  Granted, it is not some great revelation into the theology of Jesus' day, but it was a good insight into how the TaNaK fits in with the B'rit Chadesha (New Testament), and even offers some attempt at bringing the two views of G-d together.  Some people don't like the TaNaK because it deals with an angry G-d.  To them, I suggest you read &quot;Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God&quot; by Jonathan Edwards (he was a pastor in the 1750's) and you'll see how recent this &quot;G-d is coated with sugar and wouldn't hurt a fly&quot; theology is.  Then, read Yancey again.  Nothing he talks about is really all that easy to come to terms with, but, then again, neither was &quot;The Jesus I Never Knew&quot; and it was still acclaimed.  Perhaps it's the subject matter that trips people up.  And because of that, I can't think of a reason not to read it.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	RWAN2YJR3B869	0849913861	480426308	Elijah:  A Man of Heroism and Humility (Great Lives From God's Word 5:  Profiles in Character from Charles R. Swindoll)	Books	3	12	33	N	N	Not That Great....	I don't know what I expected picking up the book, but I certainly didn't get it. It seemed to me that Dr. Swindoll was talking down to me throughout the book. He was repetitive, and, well, boring. Normally, I try to finish a chapter before I put a book down, but I was putting this one down in the middle of a chapter because I would get tired of it. I haven't read any of the other \\"Great Lives from G-d's Word\\" series and I probably won't now. Perhaps I was looking for a more lofty discussion of Elijah and the events surrounding him (I would have at least expected a word about Malachi 3:5, but it wasn't there), and instead got a low level introduction.  Let's put it this way: the only source he uses is the Biblical narrative.  Nothing wrong with that, but the Elijah stoires make up about four chapters.  As such, Elijah's a little harder to write about than, say, Ester, who has her own book.  However, there are so many wonderful traditions that surround Elijah in Judaism and early Christanity that I was SURE he would at least mention them.  Wrong.  Actually, what the book amounts to is a drawing out of the biblical narrative with \\"life lessons\\" laid over it.  Normally, I like Dr. Swindoll.  I like his writing, I like his preaching, but this just didn't do it for me.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R3BE7KOOUFEV51	0310230055	993975616	Revelation Unveiled	Books	5	9	18	N	N	If you read LEFT BEHIND...	If you've read LEFT BEHIND, you're going to be coming home to some familiar stuff here.  Most of the theological discussions in the series were taken from this book.  REVELATION UNVEILED is actually an update to REVELATION: ILLUSTRATED AND MADE PLAIN, also by Lehaye.  There is little difference between the two books in terms of information.  However, Leheay does rely on the NIV for this book as opposed to the KJV in the original, a much need improvement for today's generation.  It gives an honest look at each major section of the text and attempts to explain their meaning.  More often than not, Leheay hits the mark of current eschatological scholarship, despite many critics contrary claims.  A must have for anyone who wants to get an overview of the last days.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R1495ZLEG2V5PV	0921714564	752805681	Jesus: The Great Debate	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Debate Rages on...	Not a bad book.  It's, in fact, very good for someone who's just beginning to read about Jesus scholarship or lack thereof in some cases (READ: Jesus Seminar).  Jeffery also discusses some subtle nuances that are often overlooked (i.e., the possible significances of the Shroud of Turin, the Jewish Expectations of Messiah (anyone who thinks this part is a waste of time needs to think about their Christianity a little harder) and evidence of Gospel accuracy).  To be frank, I liked it, though I've come to see that the arguments are a little weak when compared to other conservative scholars and their work.  A good read would also be Gary Habermas' THE HISTORICAL JESUS.  Though I haven't finished it yet, it does look promising.  I'll let you know how it goes.  However, in closing, let me recommend this book for some thoughts and ideas that you won't find anywhere else, but don't expect it to be the end all, do all book on Jesus research.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R151VLBDKPJUJG	0849937183	622274677	The Mysterious Bible Codes	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Good Exposition	Grant Jeffery does a good job updating the building upon the arguments he made in THE SIGNATURE OF G-D and THE HANDWRITING OF G-D.  Unlike Michael Dorinsn in his book THE BIBLE CODE Jeffery does not attempt to predict the future with the Bible Code.  Rather, he gives an overview of the nature of the Bible Codes, how they work and where to find them.  If that wasn't enough, he gives examples from Christian, Jewish and Secular sources confirming the Bible Codes, as well as several examples, most of them important to the and directly related to the Bible, but other codes of interest as well (i.e., the Hitler Codes and the Rabbis Codes).  Even though it does repeat some information found in Jeffery's other books, there's good stuff to be read here.  Recommended.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R35SRO6NV1UQIY	1565079019	659591734	The Coming Last Days Temple	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fabulous	For those of you who didn't look at the dimensions, this is a big book...a really big book.  You will not finish it in one reading; you will not finish it in ten readings.  You will enjoy it though.  It goes in-depth (400 pages, to be exact) into the temple, it's place in Judaism and it's place in Christianity.  One entire section is devoted to current events about the Temple.  There are also chapters on sacrifice and why it's not necessarily a bad thing (though sometimes the explanation is clear as mud, it gets the point across).  I still haven't seen the companion video, but I would like to.  Excellent book...not for the feint of heart!	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R1UY33EDPQPIWW	084994094X	181957058	The Signature of God	Books	3	1	8	N	N	Not again...	OK, if you read HANDWRITING OF G-D, you don't need to read this one, too.  It does have good, unique information, but not enough to justify buying the book.  Borrow it from a friend, if you can, or, better yet, get the two pack and save a buck.  It wasn't a bad read, just repetitive.  See my review of HANDWRITING OF G-D for more details about the content of both books.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	RN6QLGOD2X463	0921714041	266241078	Prince of Darkness: Antichrist and the New World Order	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Could Have Been Better	He could have at least cited a source or two in the body of the work. Gratned, you can confirm some of what he says, but you've got to do your homework and have no life (I was able to look up some stuff during my freshman year of college, but not lately).  It has some interresting (if not unorthodox) theories about the technical aspects of the Tribulation, some of which sound plausible, some of which do not.  Having read ARMAGEDDON: APPOINTMENT WITH DESTINY, I was expecting better, and did not get it.  Perhaps if he chooses to update his book, Jeffery will include some sources that are eaisly found this time.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R2GT5KOY83RVVD	1891620053	620162691	The Sword And The Olive: A Critical History Of The Israeli Defense Force	Books	5	7	13	N	Y	Very Good Review of the IDF	This was an excellent overview of the history of one of the greatest military machines ever to exist.  Van Creveld, himself a veteran, writes with an engaging style, if not overly technical in some places.  The book was originally written in Hebrew, so some words unique to the language will slow down a lot of readers.  Van Creveld also translated (and transliterated) the book into English himself, so some spellings may be different that what a reader would normally be used to.  The thesis and conclusions may shatter some illusions that you may have about the IDF, but they are completely accurate.  A must read for anyone interested in Israeli history, especially recent history.	2001-01-02
US	49037222	R2XUF4M9H82DCI	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not bad...could be better	It wasn't that bad.  Ok, so it was kinda slow and some of the dialouge for the resurrection scene seemed forced and purposfully dragged out, but it was still pretty decent.  But not nearly as good as Assassins.  I mean, let's face it, we all knew what was going to happen during Indwelling, but Assassins kept you on your toes.  If they Jerry Jenkins and Tim LeHaye can get back to that kind of suspense in The Mark, then it will be exceptional.  So far, this has been the lowest ranking (in my opinion) of all the books, but it's still decent.  Read it if you want to keep up with the series, but don't make this the first one...start at the begining.  It'll make things a lot clearer for you.	2000-09-26
US	49037222	R1T3IY5RKY7GY8	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	King of the Hill, With a Good Reason	Left Behind became an overnight hot seller in the Christian market (and later in the general market as popularity of the series grew), and it's easy to see why.  I read the whole thing, cover to cover, on my way back from Texas, which is about an eight hour trip for me.  It's one of those books you can't put down.  Of course, it does take a couple of chapters to get into it, but it does hold your attention after a very short while.  It's easy to understand and geared to people who don't exactally have a vast knowledge of theology in general and estachology in particular.  It's not the great witnessing tool everyone first made it out to be, but it wasn't meant to be that.  It's entertainment with theology thrown in.  That can be dangerous because the book might be treated like what will happen, word for word, and this is fiction, after all.  In summation: Read it.  It's worth it.	2000-09-26
US	49037222	R36TSMYVQZK4K3	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	1	9	43	N	N	Just one question...?	Why is this guy still a bishop?  I have a hard time believing he's even a  Christian, let alone why he is supposed to be a church leader.  Next thing  we know, he's going to be telling us how the believers of Hinduism are  believe in the same God as Christians and that they have a similar  theology.  Remember, just because the Bible lists events that are less than  savory (lets face it, who gets encouraged by war and destruction), it is  important to keep in mind that the Bible is also a historical record (read,  just because it talks about something does not mean that it condones what  happened, but rather it just tells you it happens).  It is my suggestion  that Bishop Sprong rethink why exactally he calls himself a Christian  (along with all those in agreement with his ideas).	2000-08-04
