US	49056791	R2X3M6ES2TZ6D5	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Book of significant contemporary importance	Salman Ruhdie: 'After working for five years to give voice and fictional flesh to the immigrant culture of which I myself I am a member, I should see my book burned, largely unread, by the people it is about- people who might find some pleasure and much recognition in its pages.'<br /><br />Now that the shadow of the Fatwa is receeding- fortunately with the author still alive, and still writing, the Satanic Verses can finally considered from a literary, rather than a purely political standpoint. It is a vast novel, with a great many themes, characters,linguistic flourishes and cultural references woven together to create an original tale of the dichotomy between good and evil. But essentially it is a migrants view of the world, dealing with the problems of uprooting, or metamorphosis, of cultural and social struggles for identity.<br /><br />Right from the beginning, the author brings to our attention that magic realism will feature heavily in the story, like in his previous masterpiece 'Midnight's Children'. Bostan, a 747 airliner, crashes over the south coast of England, Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha fall from the sky, and survive. Saladin becomes severed from his father's Indianness and sets about anglicizing himself in that particular form of Englishness that was so fashionable in 1980s Britain - a neo-Colonial concept of stability and fairness, harking back to the days of the Empire when British commerce ruled large. He tries to ingratiate himself with establishment icons of Britain -Nelson's Column, Big Ben and marries Pamela Lovelace, who embodies many of the elitist aspects of Sloaney, country house philistanism. Gibreel, on the other hand, is a poor street boy who rises to become a film star. He manages to retain some of his original identity whilst in England and stays true to his character.<br /><br />The Story of Saladin and Gibreel is only one aspect of a novel that tackles a kaleidoscopic range of additional themes. Another story is the satirical riff on the origins of Islam, providing the aspects of the book that many Muslims found so offensive. Then there is the additional telling of the trek of Ayesha and the villgagers towards the sea to find a route to Mecca. These two sub stories are projections of Gibreel's mind, which is where we get into difficult waters of complexity. What exactly are these dream pieces saying? Girbreel seems to dream these fevered sequences as an attempt to recover his lost faith. He is trapped- he cannot believe in his past, he cannot escape it. Rushdie seems to be implying that the origins of Islam are flawed and slightly ludicrous. Invoking the figure of Mohammed (thinly veiled as Mahound), who has his words mistranscribed by the scribe Salman, is and was a controversial step. Then there is the character of Baal the satanist, who is in danger from Mahound's war leader Ishalid and seeks sanctury with whores- who are named after Mohammed's wives. These sections are obviously meant to come across as comic (the Ayatollah Khomeni obviously didn't get the joke) but the humour doesn't really work, or is too subtle for most readers, thus they can easily be interpretated as being in somewhat bad taste. Certainly,  found these passages to be the most perplexing of the novel. Rushdie takes his trademark magic realism and contorts it to produce ideas that appear to lack fundamental sense, unless they are taken as highlighting what a ludicrous religion Islam is, a position Rushdie denies.<br /><br />The complexities over these parts of the novel shouldn't overshadow what is essentially a powerful story about the diverse and difficult issues facing immigrants in 1980s Britain, issues which hold true today. It is a novel which will surely go down in the future as a classic spirit of the age novel during a particlarly turbulent time in Britain's social history, the high watermark of Thatcherism, and it should be read by anyone who is interested in such affairs.satirical riff on the origins of Islam, providing the aspects of the book that many Muslims found so offensive. Then there is the additional telling of the trek of Ayesha and the villgagers towards the sea to find a route to Mecca. These two sub stories are projections of Gibreel's mind, which is where we get into difficult waters of complexity. What exactly are these dream pieces saying? Girbreel seems to dream these fevered sequences as an attempt to recover his lost faith. He is trapped- he cannot believe in his past, he cannot escape it. Rushdie seems to be implying that the origins of Islam are flawed and slightly ludicrous. Invoking the figure of Mohammed (thinly veiled as Mahound), who has his words mistranscribed by the scribe Salman, is and was a controversial step. Then there is the character of Baal the satanist, who is in danger from Mahound's war leader Ishalid and seeks sanctury with whores- who are named after Mohammed's wives. These sections are obviously meant to come across as comic (the Ayatollah Khomeni obviously didn't get the joke) but the humour doesn't really work, or is too subtle for most readers, thus they can easily be interpretated as being in somewhat bad taste. Certainly,  found these passages to be the most perplexing of the novel. Rushdie takes his trademark magic realism and contorts it to produce ideas that appear to lack fundamental sense, unless they are taken as highlighting what a ludicrous religion Islam is, a position Rushdie denies.  <br /> <br />The complexities over these parts of the novel shouldn't overshadow what is essentially a powerful story about the diverse and difficult issues facing immigrants in 1980s Britain, issues which hold true today. It is a novel which will surely go down in the future as a classic spirit of the age novel during a particlarly turbulent time in Britain's social history, the high watermark of Thatcherism, and it should be read by anyone who is interested in such affairs.	2005-06-17
US	49056791	R11RB0FVZVKTZL	037570115X	696817594	Heavy Water and Other Stories	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Uncomfortable satires	Much of Amis' work makes the reader feel uncomfortable. The adjectives vain, lazy, narcissistic, slobbish, violent often apply to his characters. In Heavy Water, an interesting collection of shorts from a writer more accustomed to the novel form, the grottiness is familiar to experienced Amis readers.<br /><br />The best stories are 'State of England' and 'Coincidence of the Arts' which focus respectively on a thuggish disco bouncer with a son at an expensive boarding school and a feckless New York painter who becomes embroiled with his black doorman, his novel, and (separately), his wife.<br /><br />In these two stories in particular Amis' jazzy style, perceptive social comment and dagger wit are on full display.<br /><br />The other stories are less successful. His earliest two, 'Denton's Death' and 'Let Me Count the Times' palpably flag against his more developed material.<br /><br />Also, although these stories seem wide ranging in terms of theme and subject matter, they actually are quite narrow. Most of them focus on either desperate, loser males or struggling artists. Amis writes about the petit bourgeoisie and the intellegensia in urban England and New York. He is masterful over his chosen terrain. But it is a narrow one.	2005-04-21
US	49056791	R3409RFO4GFEM2	1401352030	464769779	Yellow Dog	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The satirical nail on contemporary Britain	Martin Amis has pretty much succeeded in his aim to be considered the coolest, sharpest, wittiest writer of rough comedy in Britain. His reputation is probably the greatest of any current writer in the UK and his books are anticipated with slavering anticipation by the literati. In fact, Amis is so successful, he has created a large number of enemies along the way. 'Yellow Dog' was savaged in the pre review stage by Tibor Fischer, who wrote that reading it was like catching your uncle masturbating in the schoolyard. That it may be - this novel probes even more deeply into the slimy underbelly of contemporary Britain than even Amis is accustomed to. But this doesn't make it bad. Paedophilia, pornography, the gutter press, ruthless intrusions on the life of the Royal Family, gangland rogues, brutal bodily harmings, air disasters. All of this adds up to quintessential Amis territory, and some passages of Yellow Dog are so sharply on the satirical money that the world he invokes is like an eerily familiar parallel universe to ours - it is not Britain as we know it, but it might easily be.<br /><br />The plot is patchy, but Amis generally doesn't go in for plots. Like most of his novels, it appears as if he sets out a string of different shaped hooks on which to hang his multitudinous wordplay and punning skills - most particularly in the txt mssage style communications between failed tabloid hack Clint Smoker and a girl called k8 - an obvious trick for novelists to copy but this is the first time I have come across it.<br /><br />The novel is not one of Amis's best, but it succeeds because it so sharply evokes the nasty themes which underly so much of our contemporary culture in Britain. It is this feature of the book which makes for it's uneasy, sordid readability. It highlights what sort of people we potentially might be if the civilized veneer of our society was stripped away. This makes for unsettling reading, which is perhaps why so many members of the popular press slaughtered the novel so vitriolically. None of us likes it when someone points out our faults, and portrays them better than we know them ourselves.the novel so vitriolically. None of us likes it when someone points out our faults, and portrays them better than we know them ourselves.	2005-04-12
US	49056791	R2I61WDK2D26EY	0679757899	717639372	East, West: Stories	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Rushdie a master of the short story form	The stories in this collection present lighter reading than Rushdie's mammoth novels such as Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses but they display just as many of his lavish, elegant and rich prose writing talents. The stories focus on various cultural aspects of Western and Eastern societies - the lifestyles, events, stereotypes and prejudices that affect people in these areas, especially those who, like Rushdie, migrate from one to the other.<br /><br />The stories are vastly diverse - those in the 'East' section document important cultural events that are particular to Indian society - the woman seeking a Visa to travel West, the man who undergoes a vasectomy to get a free radio. Those in the 'West' section include a Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead esque reworking of Hamlet from the perspective of the minor characters and a whimsical portrayal of Christopher Columbus as beholden to the dominant whims of Queen Isabella rather than the pioneering bold explorer of legend.<br /><br />The final stories 'East, West' tackle issues of East, West cultural commingling. 'The Harmony of the Spheres' is the story of an Indian undergraduate at Cambridge University who encounters a paranoid schizophrenic, obsessed with the occult. Chekov and Zulu, the code names of two diplomats, is a story set in the historical context of Indian politics and mixes Western popular culture images in the unfamiliar context of Asian political circles. The final story 'The Courter' highlights perhaps the dominant theme we associate with East, West migration, the difficulties faced by poor immigrant families in London and the prejudices they suffer. The final page deftly highlights the sensation felt, perhaps by Rushdie himself, and many other people who have crossed frontiers: 'I...have ropes around my neck, I have them to this day, pulling me this way and that, East and West, the nooses tightening, commanding, choose, choose. I buck, I snort, I whinny, I rear, I kick. Ropes, I do not choose between you. Lassoes, lariats, I choose neither of you, and both. Do you hear? I refuse to choose'. The stubborn proudness of the cross cultural traveller. East, West highlights these virtues superbly.oose between you. Lassoes, lariats, I choose neither of you, and both. Do you hear? I refuse to choose'. The stubborn proudness of the cross cultural traveller. East, West highlights these virtues superbly.	2005-04-11
US	49056791	RGHH0ERK0G6WO	1573229725	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Like Dickens - but lighter and shallower	On one level, Fingersmith, like Sarah Waters's other novels is a superbly plotted, highly suspensful Victorian pastiche, laden with twists that befall the main characters, wrenching the reader's sympathy from one to the other. The plot really is first rate, too good in a way, as it forces the story into the genre of popular literature populated by novels more noted for their page turning entertainment qualities than their deeper layers of sociological and psychological insights. The settings and characters are all unmistakably Dickensian - the grimy stew of poor London streets, the imposing country houses, the lunatic asylums. The characters that inhabit this world are clearly purloined from the classic annals of Victorian literature - Sue the wretch battling away in the slums, Mrs Sucksby the control freak baby farmer, Maude the pretty heiress, Mr Rivers the handsome suitor, Maude's strict Scrooge like uncle, Nurse Bacon the burly and brutal woman in the lunatic asylum. All this is familiar to readers familiar with the period. This is Dickens's territory, he got there first and evokes the characters and institutions of the age more elegantly and realistically.<br /><br />Fingersmith's main selling point is it's lesbiamism - a trait in all of Water's Victorian novels and one which makes it oh so appealing to BBC costume drama makers, knowing that the promise of a steamy romp with two girls is bound to generate viewing figures. You can try the recent DVD adaptation but it is pretty tame. The same goes for the book. There is some softcore girl on girl action here that will induce slight stirrings in the sexually libidious reader. But The lesbiansim doesn't really add much of a dimension to the story. It just sort of sits there as a key part of the plot but without really enlightening us much on Victorian attitudes on the subject at the time.<br /><br />As historical novels go, this is a great for popular entertainment, but it's lack of heightened literary depth means it's appeal is the ephemeral one of entertaining, twisty plotting rather than the lasting one of deep moral and historical insight.it's appeal is the ephemeral one of entertaining, twisty plotting rather than the lasting one of deep moral and historical insight.	2005-04-11
US	49056791	R1JCWASVKJCCNP	0679463348	952782573	Step Across This Line: Collected Nonfiction 1992-2002	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Formidable intellectual firepower	This collection of Salman Rushdie's non-fiction spanning the early years of the Iranian Fatwa to the immediate post September 11th aftermath displays all the characteristic intellectual pyrotechnics that Rushdie is famous for. There is much in this book for readers who engage with global culture and politics to enjoy. The first essay is an extended piece of film criticism on Rushdie's first acknowledged literary influence - the Wizard of Oz, a movie which reflect's his accustomed condition of a person uprooted from his homeland and adjusting to a strange and, at times, unnerving new world. In 1989, Rushdie fell victim to one aspect of these turbulent modern times - Islamic Fundamentalism. Many of the essays focus on the terrorist threat that hung over Rushdie following the publication of the Satanic Verses, a satirical riff on the birth of Islam. Before that time, Rushdie was a staunch advocate of an approach to life that was founded on the principles of secularism, freedom of expression and liberty of thought, and his experience under the Fatwa strongly redoubled this conviction. The final essays entitled 'Step Across this Time' were written in the massively uncertain September 11th aftermath and discuss the nature of frontiers and their significance. Rushdie argues that we are all living in a frontier time in which great changes are thrust upon us all the time. We must develop a frontier spirit of humanistic liberalism, become custodians of freedom and justice in order to thrive in this current climate. This is the central thread of Rushdie's argument that he returns through repeatedly in these essays and he musters all his considerable intellectual powers to state a formidably powerful case for liberty.<br /><br />Step Across this Line is not just about the critical political issues of this era however. Also included are an exquisitely tounge in cheek autobiographical piece about Rushdie's experiences as a twenty year old living above a boutique in West London called Granny Takes a Trip. This was my favourite essay in the book and I hope Rushdie decides to write more autobiographical descriptions of his youth in the future. Essays on football and rock music link sublimely with more intellectual subjects such as post colonial Indian literature - a subject on which Rushdie is extremely knowledgable and a secular cry to the world's six billionth person to eschew the restrictive power structures of religion and embark on his or her own ethical development.<br /><br />Rushdie is a controversial writer who doesn't shy away from stating his opinions bluntly and forcefully, and his views on subjects such as religion are fiercely contested by those who reject his secular view of the world. But I would strongly recommend this collection of writing to intellectual readers who will appreciate these outpourings from a man who is a genuine global thinker, assiduously well read and a first rate writer.called Granny Takes a Trip. This was my favourite essay in the book and I hope Rushdie decides to write more autobiographical descriptions of his youth in the future. Essays on football and rock music link sublimely with more intellectual subjects such as post colonial Indian literature - a subject on which Rushdie is extremely knowledgable and a secular cry to the world's six billionth person to eschew the restrictive power structures of religion and embark on his or her own ethical development.  <br /> <br />Rushdie is a controversial writer who doesn't shy away from stating his opinions bluntly and forcefully, and his views on subjects such as religion are fiercely contested by those who reject his secular view of the world. But I would strongly recommend this collection of writing to intellectual readers who will appreciate these outpourings from a man who is a genuine global thinker, assiduously well read and a first rate writer.	2005-03-28
US	49056791	R20J2VFEXQ7WWK	0679731369	62087535	Flaubert's Parrot	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Barnes's masterpiece	This novel, Barnes's third, published in 1984 still stands as his most acclaimed book, despite a plethora of other writings since, and deservedly so. I once attended a talk given by Julian Barnes on this novel, and he was asked if he felt as if it were an albatross around his neck. He quoted Kingsley Amis, whose own reputation was founded largely on his first novel, Lucky Jim, who said with a sniff: 'better than having no albatross at all.' Indeed.<br /><br />Why is Flaubert's Parrot widely known to be Barnes's albatross? I feel it represents the best combination of his particular writing talents. Gustave Flaubert (his favourite author); an elderly English narrator who reflects wistfully on human identity, love and the past; Anglo-French cultural matters (see the excelleng Cross Channel chapter set on a ferry); and witty, sophisticated humour that is the hallmark of Barnes's best writing.<br /><br />The form is also totally original. After two early novels written in a fairly conventional narrative structure, Barnes ripped up the rule book and set this novel with two bookend chapters narrated by Geoffrey Braithwaite, an elderly doctor who motors around Rouen and Croissset trying to track down which of two parrots was the original that sat on Flaubert's desk when he wrote 'Un Coeur Simple'. Inside of these is a series of chapters that explores the life of Flaubert, each from a peculiar angle. For example there is a chapter containing three biographies of the man - one positive, one negative, one constructed from the accumulated quotes of Flaubert during his life: 'I'm so tired that I feel I'm liquefying like an old Camembert'. Such is the problem of tracking down the identity of this elusive writer. Another chapter focuses on the colour of Emma Bovary's eyes as depicted by Flaubert in Madame Bovary, another is a memoir from Louise Colet, Flaubert's mistress. In addition there is a collection of Flaubert's writings on railways, in another there is a quasi-spoof exam paper on Flaubert's work. Barnes stated at the talk that the aim of this was to try and construct a biography of the writer not by going at it conventionally, but by sinking mineshafts from various angles into the subject and seeing what light can be cast on the past.<br /><br />With typical English reserve, Geoffrey Braithwaite tells the story of Flaubert because he can't come to terms with his own personal tragedy - that of his wife's suicide. What results is a curious meditation on human identity, literature and the difficulty of capturing the past. It merits several rereadings to grasp the intricacies of the different sections, many of which contain wry asides and tantalising surprises.<br /><br />The spliced narrative model was followed by Barnes in his 5th novel, A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters, but with less success. Flaubert's Parrot is a rare example of a bold, genre changing writing experiment that comes off brilliantly.exam paper on Flaubert's work. Barnes stated at the talk that the aim of this was to try and construct a biography of the writer not by going at it conventionally, but by sinking mineshafts from various angles into the subject and seeing what light can be cast on the past.  <br /> <br />With typical English reserve, Geoffrey Braithwaite tells the story of Flaubert because he can't come to terms with his own personal tragedy - that of his wife's suicide. What results is a curious meditation on human identity, literature and the difficulty of capturing the past. It merits several rereadings to grasp the intricacies of the different sections, many of which contain wry asides and tantalising surprises.  <br /> <br />The spliced narrative model was followed by Barnes in his 5th novel, A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters, but with less success. Flaubert's Parrot is a rare example of a bold, genre changing writing experiment that comes off brilliantly.	2005-03-24
US	49056791	R2J9IA2J743OZF	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Nothing to be done	Almost every work of Literature is famous for telling an interesting story, perhaps a masterful insight into human sexual relations, a gripping portrayal of a power struggle, a gasp inducing twist in the climax. In short, in the majority of Literature, something actually happens.<br /><br />Waiting for Godot, along with certain other works by Beckett such as his Sartre inspired drama 'Endgame' pretty much stands alone as an exception to this. It is one of the most famous, and controversial plays of the 20th Century. As everyone knows, it focuses on the ruminations of two tramps, Vladimir and Estragon who stand on a road by a tree waiting for Godot. After two days (and two and a half hours of stage time), Lucky and Pozzo have appeared and performed an absurdist farce, a boy has asked what message he should relay to Godot but Godot himself never appears. By the end of the play, the two tramps are no further forward, only the passing of time has elapsed and a few leaves on the tree have sprouted.<br /><br />That, in a nutshell, is the human condition. We exist, time passes, things happen to us which, looking at it from the grand scheme of things are absurd and meaningless then we die. Who is Godot? God himself - in whom belief in his existence is a futile fallacy? People speculate as such but it is essentially futile. Beckett himself was notoriously reticent when it came to divulging what meaning there was in the play. He once said he just 'liked the shape of it'. That's about it.<br /><br />Towards the end of the first act, Estragon exclaims 'Nothing happens, nobody comes, nobody goes, it's awful!'. This line was apparently greated with a hearty 'hear hear' from an audience member when it first opened in London.<br /><br />Beckett was astonishingly well read in Literature, theatre, languages (most of his major works were originally written in French as he wanted the discipline of writing in an acquired second language), philosophy and psychology. His detractors demean his work on the grounds that it says nothing. Beckett, on the other hand, considered that after a lifetime of scholarship (and depression), that nothing was the most valuable insight to offer. Just before he died, he said that he could no longer bring himself to write as he considered every word to be 'an unecessary stain on silence and nothingness'. Following his advice, I too shall stop.ctors demean his work on the grounds that it says nothing. Beckett, on the other hand, considered that after a lifetime of scholarship (and depression), that nothing was the most valuable insight to offer. Just before he died, he said that he could no longer bring himself to write as he considered every word to be 'an unecessary stain on silence and nothingness'. Following his advice, I too shall stop.	2005-03-23
US	49056791	R1KIGAYGOH8DU5	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	4	7	7	N	N	India in one man	This novel is Rushdie's most highly regarded. It is certainly the novel in which he unleashes what he terms 'mad prose pyrotechnics' to their utmost capabilities, telling a multitude of fantastical stories involving witches, noses, sheets with holes in, finger mutilation, washing-chests, pickles... the list is as perpetual and complex almost as the history of Modern India itself. A prose style that makes the magic realism of Gabriel Garcia Marquez seem almost muted and restrained.<br /><br />This novel then, is a seemingly endless parade of storytelling -and not a simple, linear narrative either. Saleem's story swoops and loops and dives and frequently circles. It is a highly post modern novel that frequently stalls while the narrator forgets (dates such as the assasination of Ghandi and the 1957 elections) summarizes what has gone before and fortells what is yet to come. Why such a curious, strange style? Because Saleem is a character who, in his words is 'the sum total of everything that went before me, of all that I have seen done, of everything done-to-me...To understand me, you'll have to swallow the world'. Yes, Saleem is, in a sense, India itself, coming into being at exactly the same moment - 15th August 1947 and blessed with magical powers that allow him to see into the minds of other people and hear their voices in his head. Saleem's life is inextricably linked to Indian history since 1947 - so it's not surprising that the poor fellow can't tell his story straight.<br /><br />Inside this narrative is a multitude of political commentary, allegory, leifmoteif symbolism- humble objects such as a spitoon frequently recur in the stories, satirical riffs, ruminations on the nature of history, enchanting descriptions of Indian scenes, parody and digression. In this last aspect it reminded me somewhat of a much older post modern novel - Lawrence Sterne's 'Tristram Shandy'.<br /><br />Saleem's experience as a 'swallower of lives' ultimately overwhelms him, and the complex richness of this novel has overwhelmed and will overwhelm many readers. Those familiar with the complex heterogeneity of Indian culture will find much to inspire and challenge them here. And for readers prepared to hunker down and engage with the prose will find a great Indian novel from a highly exuberent and talented writer.and the complex richness of this novel has overwhelmed and will overwhelm many readers. Those familiar with the complex heterogeneity of Indian culture will find much to inspire and challenge them here. And for readers prepared to hunker down and engage with the prose will find a great Indian novel from a highly exuberent and talented writer.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-21
US	49056791	R2CJSASI6K82E1	0786866748	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews, 1971-2000	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Brandishing the sword of talent against cliche	Martin Amis is one of those rare writers who found his voice staggeringly early in life (one of his greatest novels, the Rachel Papers came out when he was only 23) and has remained on a largely mercurial track to become one of Britain's most celebrated author-critics.<br /><br />The Introduction to 'The War Against Cliche' is a retrospective commentary on the decline of literary criticism from its 60s and 70s heyday: 'In the 60s you could live on ten shillings a week: you slept on people's floors and sponged off your friends and sang for your supper - about literary criticism'. Then the oil crises hiked up prices, democracy unleashed its dynamic forces against elite forms of culture and criticism became a dispensible frippery of the educated middle classes. Now, in the era of the internet, everyone in a sense has become a literary critic - witness the tens of thousands of reviews posted on this website. Amis ultimately isn't adverse to this. He likens Literature to a 'great garden', trampled extensively by public participation. But this is Eden, it is unfallen, therefore the ignorant and the illiterate cannot undermine what lies at the root of great literature: talent.<br /><br />The essays in this book can be linked by a desire on the part of the writer to pinpoint and appreciate talented writing amongst the millions of words that have been scribed in English Literature. Amis ultimately finds it in the writings of the great American authors of the late 20th Century - Bellow, Updike and, most notably, Nabokov. But the journey to uncover these deities of the literary scene is laden with wrong turns and amusing digressions. Thus Amis presents us with an amusing consideration of a Hillary Clinton book on childrearing: ''Village' is a portrait of a First Lady who deserves a second change. And a second term. This is not the unsmiling feminist, the ballbreaking ambulance-chaser who came to Washington a few years ago', witty send ups of the likes of Thomas Harris - Amis considers 'Hannibal' to be a 'harpoon of unqualified kitsch'. Essays on subjects as diverse as chess, nuclear weapons and football are included amongst other things. Longer, more quintissentially literary essays focus on interesting themes such as the nihilistic perversity of J.G. Ballard, why Cyril Connolly only managed to produce one novel, and a mediocre one at that - he was corrupted by too much reviewing apparently, and why novels such as Don Quixote and Ulyssees can be considered to be undisputed masterpieces and, at the same time, unreadable.<br /><br />Amis is no fawning, simpering reviewer, willing to massage the fragile egos of writers and publishers alike. His prose is characteristically juicy, acerbic, witty and, at times, viciously damning. He has little time for writers who can't even master the nuts and bolts of English prose - see, for instance, his comments on the fallacy of the Elegant Variation in a biography of Lincoln. Some books he patently finds the very notion of rediculous, such as a Who's Who in Twentieth Century Literature giving everyone, no matter how esoteric, a spot in the anthology. It is evident reading through these essays that Amis is a serious reader who likes his prose to be original, well crafted and, above all, the product of a talented pen.<br /><br />Because the War Against Cliche incorporates essays from almost a thirty year timescale, it is interesting to note the maturity of Amis's reviewing style as he ages. His early reviews, penned whilst he was in his twenties are brash and cocky. His 1971 review of the Guinnes Book of Records displays several of the hallmarks of a youthful critic- the smirking cynicism, the sneering sarcasm and the inclusion of jokes because they are clever and funny, not necessarily because they are incisive or relevant. By the 1990s, Amis's voice has matured into that of the statesmanlike purveyor of literary outlooks - mature, authoratitive and crackling with the opinions of a writer who really knows what he is talking about when it comes to literature.<br /><br />This collection of essays by Amis serves as a fine reminder of why we read books and what we should look for when we do so - namely talent and originality. Pretty much synonyms as his beloved Nabokov pointed out. An invitation to us all to find our own literary role models who strive to create something along these lines. Salman Rushdie described this quest as a writers attempt to 'stretch the universe' of the reader's mind a little. Amis calls it the war on cliche. Whatever it's title, this pursuit is an important one, and this is some of the very best reviewing you will find articulating this viewpoint.really knows what he is talking about when it comes to literature.  <br /> <br />This collection of essays by Amis serves as a fine reminder of why we read books and what we should look for when we do so - namely talent and originality. Pretty much synonyms as his beloved Nabokov pointed out. An invitation to us all to find our own literary role models who strive to create something along these lines. Salman Rushdie described this quest as a writers attempt to 'stretch the universe' of the reader's mind a little. Amis calls it the war on cliche. Whatever it's title, this pursuit is an important one, and this is some of the very best reviewing you will find articulating this viewpoint.	2005-03-14
US	49056791	R1RUGD80K7FNAQ	0521449944	806737215	A Course in Language Teaching Trainer's Handbook: Practice of Theory (Cambridge Teacher Training and Development)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Not very useful	I used this coursebook during a TEFL course recently. I found Penny Ur's manual extremely disappointing. The chapters offer very little constructive information regarding the theory of language teaching. Ur's standard format is to list a few one line opinions on a subject and invite the reader to list the theories in order of usefulness or importance. Clearly the book is intended to facilitate group discussion and be used in conjunction with the teachers' manual which provides more concrete answers. However the manual itself does not provide much meaningful information regarding language teaching theory and when it came to applying the methods in my own teaching or writing papers on the subject, I frequently had to look at othe resources.	2005-03-07
US	49056791	R2BGWY5O1ZWUH9	0679761616	152707885	Letters from London	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Clever, neat, articulate, dated	A primary limitation with most journalism - even writing of the highest quality, is an inbuilt transience. These are Julian Barnes's Letters from London 1990-1995, written for the New Yorker magazine. Certainly they reflect Barnes's obvious talents as an astute and witty essayist, political commentator and shrewd social observer. There are enough jokes here and apposite observations of various aspects of British life during this era to enlighten and entertain. But I can't quite picture who exactly would want to purchase such a collection of journalism now, ten years after Barnes finished his phase as the New Yorker's London correspondent. The essays cover themes such as Margaret Thatcher's resignation, the early years of the Fatwa imposed by the Iranian Government on Salman Rushdie in 1989, the televising of the House of Commons and a 1993 World Championship Chess match between Nigel Short and Gary Kasparov. Most of these issues are now not only finished but sufficient time has now elapsed that the roller of history has imprinted them firmly into the ground. In other words, they are dead. So who would be interested in reading essays written contemporaneously with the events they cover? - avid Julian Barnes fans? Hobbyists of social history? People who merely hold a wistful nostalgia for British public life during those years? Julian Barnes continues to write intelligent and perceptive journalism on current events these days, so unless you are particularly interested in reviewing the views of a liberal left winger of a curiously transitional stage of British politics (fittingly, the book starts with an essay on Thatcher and ends with one on Blair), I would recommend reading either Julian Barnes's novels or his more recent essays.	2005-03-06
US	49056791	R3DX4SOJM37W98	0140187448	168292418	The Log from the Sea of Cortez (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Erudite, at times witty, marine biology	John Steinbeck was not merely a lusty untrained amateur when it came to marine biology - he studied the subject at Stanford although left without graduating. Nevertheless, the Log from the Sea of Cortez, the narrative portion of the account from his 1940 journey round the Gulf of California with his scientist friend Ed Ricketts, is written in the tone of the intellegent novice to the subject.<br /><br />The prose is light-footed and brisk, covering the minutiae of collecting - minature sea life is chronicled with detailed affection, then frequently the observations of creatures are used as a basis for expanding into a panoramic commentary on sociology, ethics, religion, psychology, teleology - you name it. Watching two crayfish meet, Steinbeck observes that they fight. He then speculates that they will only lose this genetic impulse if some future mutation is undergone by the species. He wonders if this might be the case with humans, explaining why war is an inevitable component of our psychic. How much of this is verifiable scientifically is questionable, but this doesn't stop Steinbeck's account from being an entertaining travelogue. Potted tales of his fellow crew wittily intersperse the log from the collecting fields, such as the tale of one member trying to decapitate a turtle that crawls around headless on the deck, post execution.<br /><br />What really enriches this account, however, is Steinbeck's obvious enthusiasm for biology, human company, sea life and, more broadly, life at sea in general. At one point, having returned to the ocean after a spell in the mountains, he confesses 'One who was born by the ocean or has associated with it cannot ever be quite content away from it for very long'. There is certainly something of the keenness of the short trousered schoolboy, ecsctatically rummaging around the rockpools that spills over to the reader.<br /><br />Yet, for all its happy moments, the Sea of Cortez sits in historical contex against a rather more sombre, tragic background. The beginnings of war starting in Europe are far removed from Steinbeck and co.'s potterings in the Gulf of California, but the occasional allusion to war in the account reminds us that this was an uneasy time for American life. And Steinbeck's lifelong friend and colleague on this trip, the eccentric and charismatic scientist Ed Ricketts, who held the controversial theory at the time that all life in the Pacific Ocean was connected teleologically - 'It is advisable to look from the tidepool to the stars and then back to the tidepool again' was killed in a car accident at a railway crossing some years later. The appendix includes a poignant account by Steinbeck of his friend, one of the best personal obituaries I have read. So I heartily recommend that readers don't terminate their reading at the end of the log section of the story.d. The beginnings of war starting in Europe are far removed from Steinbeck and co.'s potterings in the Gulf of California, but the occasional allusion to war in the account reminds us that this was an uneasy time for American life. And Steinbeck's lifelong friend and colleague on this trip, the eccentric and charismatic scientist Ed Ricketts, who held the controversial theory at the time that all life in the Pacific Ocean was connected teleologically - 'It is advisable to look from the tidepool to the stars and then back to the tidepool again' was killed in a car accident at a railway crossing some years later. The appendix includes a poignant account by Steinbeck of his friend, one of the best personal obituaries I have read. So I heartily recommend that readers don't terminate their reading at the end of the log section of the story.	2005-03-05
US	49056791	R3UKZARBFS2PS1	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Modern Cruxifiction story	The story is a cruel, tragic tale, imbued on several levels with chronic suffering and guilt. Greene travelled in Mexico in the 1930s, a miserable journey, chronicled in his travelogue 'The Lawless Roads'. During his travels, he found the majority of the provinces in Mexico to be crooked, and anti clerical. In the post 1910 Revolutionary era, under the presidency of Plutarco Elias Calles, anti clerical measures were adapted and organized religion banned. Calles believed that the Catholic Church was responsible for spreading superstition, priests were greedy and corrupt. Many of them were hunted down and shot. Others fled.<br /><br />'The Power and the Glory' is based on a fictional version of one such priest, the nameless 'whisky priest', the only one left in his province who continues to practice his priestly duties under the constant threat of capture and execution. Unlike Jesus, however, the priest is an imperfect man. He drinks excessively, he commits adultery. And, perhaps most poignantly towards the end of the novel, he declares that it was pride rather than innate spiritual kindness that compelled him to bloody mindedly remain in the province.<br /><br />Despite all of this, however, the priest is portrayed as a hero. For all his faults, he continues to practice religion during the worst of times.<br /><br />The portrayal of Mexico in this novel is the perfect backdrop to the priest's plight. The tone is bleak and gloomy. Vultures, snakes, hyenas, beetles and sharks lurk ominously near the action. Fever is rife, sweltering heat is everywhere, as is thirst, poverty, decay and degredation.<br /><br />The ultimate message of 'The Power and the Glory', however, is optimistic. The priest, although he does not realise it, has, through his actions, enabled the church to survive. He realises that he has fallen well short of what he considers to be the only thing that is worthy - to live the life of a saint. But in fact he is a saint, albeit a flawed one. It is he, and he alone during this time that enables the glory of the Church to prevail against the repressive power of the Government.<br /><br />Incidentally, 'The Power and the Glory' was published in 1940. The Vatican wrote to Greene, condemning the novel and asking for revisions, in 1953 leading Evelyn Waugh to utter his famous reply 'They have taken fourteen years to write their first letter. You should take fourteen years to answer it'.It is he, and he alone during this time that enables the glory of the Church to prevail against the repressive power of the Government.  <br /> <br />Incidentally, 'The Power and the Glory' was published in 1940. The Vatican wrote to Greene, condemning the novel and asking for revisions, in 1953 leading Evelyn Waugh to utter his famous reply 'They have taken fourteen years to write their first letter. You should take fourteen years to answer it'.	2005-02-21
US	49056791	R3P83E5VOA42OA	0140185801	667615292	The Lawless Roads (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	29	33	N	N	Greene plunges the depths	Reading The Lawless Roads reminded me of a comment from Albert Camus from his notebooks: 'What gives value to travel is its fear. It is the fact that when we are so far from our own country we are siezed by a vague fear, and an instinctive desire to go back to the protection of old habits'.<br /><br />This is Graham Greene in Mexico. Travelling through the dry, dusty, mosquito and tick fly riven states of Southern Mexico in the 1930s, a period when the Catholic Church was under severe persecution from the state, Green clings on to the two things that remind him of happier times and nations - his Englishness, and the Catholic Church. His prologue is set in England, the title of his book comes from a piece of verse, quoted at the start, by the Scottish poet Edwin Muir and throughout his turbulent journey he seeks solace in quintissentially English writers such as Trollope and William Cobbett.<br /><br />It is evident that Greene loathes Mexico. At one point he writes of the country 'No hope anywhere. I have never been in a country where you are more aware all the time of hate'. He finds, during his travels, a Godless, immoral and violently dangerous state. He retains a colonial contempt for the natives he comes across with their 'expressionless brown eyes' and is mistrustful of everyone. He defends the under fire Catholicism with extraordinary bias, declaring the Catholic Church 'Perhaps the only body in the world today which consistently - and sometimes successfully opposes the totalitarian state'. Remember this was the same period as the Spanish Civil war.<br /><br />He plunges the depths in Tabasco, a state where Catholic persecution was particularly strong - 'One felt one was drawing near to the centre of something - if it was only of darkness and abandonment'. And his personality undergoes a disturbing descent into increasing misery and intolerence. After travelling through numerous grisly towns (Puebla is the only place he has any affection for, the only place in Mexico Greene can imagine living in with 'some happiness'), being plagued by mosquitos and diarrhoea and undergoing hours on cripplingly uncomfortable muleback, he reaches rock bottom - 'It seemed to me that this wasn't a country to live in at all with only the head and desolation; it was a country to die and leave only ruins behind'.<br /><br />But Greene's vitriolic prejudices against Mexico serve as a blackly creative vehicle to contain his bluntly honest and hatefully evocative prose style. A more dispassionate, cheerful writer would not be nearly as successful in dredging up in striking detail the climate of this sinister Mexican age. Greene also owes a great debt to Mexico, for it was his travels in hell that provided the inspiration for one of his greatest novels 'The Power and the Glory'. In The 'Lawless Roads' we briefly meet the characters in the later novel - the 'Whisky Priest', the sweating dentist, the 'Mestizo' with two yellow fangs. This baleful travelogue highlights why Greene was able to use Mexico as the canvas on which to paint 'The Power and the Glory', a masterful tale of oppression, persecution, death and redemption.magine living in with 'some happiness'), being plagued by mosquitos and diarrhoea and undergoing hours on cripplingly uncomfortable muleback, he reaches rock bottom - 'It seemed to me that this wasn't a country to live in at all with only the head and desolation; it was a country to die and leave only ruins behind'.     But Greene's vitriolic prejudices against Mexico serve as a blackly creative vehicle to contain his bluntly honest and hatefully evocative prose style. A more dispassionate, cheerful writer would not be nearly as successful in dredging up in striking detail the climate of this sinister Mexican age. Greene also owes a great debt to Mexico, for it was his travels in hell that provided the inspiration for one of his greatest novels 'The Power and the Glory'. In The 'Lawless Roads' we briefly meet the characters in the later novel - the 'Whisky Priest', the sweating dentist, the 'Mestizo' with two yellow fangs. This baleful travelogue highlights why Greene was able to use Mexico as the canvas on which to paint 'The Power and the Glory', a masterful tale of oppression, persecution, death and redemption.	2005-02-19
US	49056791	RE3NZ5MZLU0H6	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stephen Hero	Portrait of the artist is a vitally important novel for anyone interested in writing, writers, genius, repression, Catholicism, intellectualism versus dogmatism, the life and mind of James Joyce and novels as an art form. The writing style mutates and develops throughout the story, reflecting the different ages of Stephen Dedalus, from the baby talk and visceral imagery of his parents, governess Dante and Uncle Charles in his early childhood, through his schooldays as he wrestles with his intellect, his faith, his sexual awakening and his guilt to the advanced articulate and experimental style he invokes in his late adolescence, including an experimental journal at the end of the novel.<br /><br />The themes in Portrait of the Artist cover the whole spectrum of growing up, but the principal drama surrounds the intellectual development of Stephen. He is a formidable mind, a free thinker. But his faith impells him throughout towards the narrow minded dogmatism of the Catholic Church. At times, the church holds the upper hand, as Stephen is terrified into confessing his sins with prostitutes in the face of Father Arnall's legendary, sensual, brutal 'Hellfire' sermon on the fate of sinners who don't repent before god. But Stephen wrestles with such demons, and grows, and fights, and ultimately prevails. He sees the image of the rotting cabbages in in the kitchen gardens and considers the disordered symbolism of this as more appealing to his natural essence than the neat tidiness of the shrine to Mary.<br /><br />Stephen realises he must leave this claustrophobic restrictive life behind. The end of the novel chronicles his last days in Dublin before leaving Ireland. His conversation with Cranley forces home the realisation that Stephen is growing up, his childhood is behind him, and, most importantly, he is prepared to err and make mistakes, even if this means damnation. He is able, as he says 'To discover the mode of life or art whereby your spirit could express itself in unfettered freedom'.<br /><br />Stephen, with all his passionate intellectual talent, is ready to hit the world, and the forces such as Father Arnall who seem ready to stamp on such independence with vitriolic counter ideological pamphleteering cannot stop him. Thank God for that. The original title of the book, Stephen Hero, is apt indeed.freedom'.    Stephen, with all his passionate intellectual talent, is ready to hit the world, and the forces such as Father Arnall who seem ready to stamp on such independence with vitriolic counter ideological pamphleteering cannot stop him. Thank God for that. The original title of the book, Stephen Hero, is apt indeed.	2005-01-30
US	49056791	R1RXQUJD4IJFM5	0679736085	756407804	Metroland	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Lacking in originality, wit and sharpness	This was the first of Julian Barnes's novels, but I came to it after reading a selection of his later essays in 'Letters from London' and the 'Pedant in the Kitchen' as well as his intellectual postmodern history novel 'A History of the World in Ten Chapters'.<br /><br />The sharpness, wit and originality prevalent in the aforementioned works I found to be sadly lacking in Metroland. The story seemed to be implausible and trite. The narrator is Chris Lloyd, a sensitive teenager growing up in a part of suburban London served by the Metropolitan line - hence the book's title. With his friend Toni, he peruses the world with a mixture of cynicism, scorn, curiosity, cheekiness and boredom. In the middle third of the novel, Chris comes of age, finding the traditional intellectual shelter spots of Paris coming to his rescue as he loses his virginity to an attractive French girl and meets his future wife. The final third highlights Chris's maturity into the mellow contentment of middle age - a condition acidly mocked by Toni, who is still trying to remainin true to the bohemian, artistic ideals of their shared adolescence.<br /><br />The coming of age theory is one that has been tackled by virtually every well known male novelist, usually early in their career, and there is no shame in this. But first novels should be a fresh, energetic footprint on the existing field of literature. Metroland is a mere scrabbling in the soil. It is a neat, clever book, but the prose bumbles along in a bland, bored manner, reminiscent of the Metropolitan tube line itself. The themes covered for instance include:<br /><br />Teenage Chris and Toni going into a mans shop and asking for 'One man and two small boys please' - come on Julian, you can write better jokes than this surely.<br /><br />Chris nervously chatting up a French girl in a cafe by asking her about the book she is reading - a trite clich&eacute; if ever I saw one.<br /><br />Chris comparing his emotional state at various stages in his life by considering the objects around him - notorious critic, Dale Peck's assertion that Barnes is motivated by little more than boredom and hubris begin to hold some resonance here.<br /><br />Chris in middle age going to a school reunion and reflecting on how his peers have grown up and matured - please, is this not a theme covered a thousand times in navel gazing contemporary literature? even in great novels such as 'American Pastoral', the school reunion scene is rarely treated originally or creatively.<br /><br />Julian Barnes did go on to become one of Britain's foremost novelists and essayists, and deservedly so. But you wouldn't think so from this uninspiring debut.d him - notorious critic, Dale Peck's assertion that Barnes is motivated by little more than boredom and hubris begin to hold some resonance here.    Chris in middle age going to a school reunion and reflecting on how his peers have grown up and matured - please, is this not a theme covered a thousand times in navel gazing contemporary literature? even in great novels such as 'American Pastoral', the school reunion scene is rarely treated originally or creatively.    Julian Barnes did go on to become one of Britain's foremost novelists and essayists, and deservedly so. But you wouldn't think so from this uninspiring debut.	2005-01-26
US	49056791	R3NOO9YC71D5P8	0380730448	314432707	The Adrian Mole Diaries : The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13 3/4 : The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Probably the funniest comic character in Britain	The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole and the Growing Pains of Adrian Mole are, for me, the funniest in Sue Townsend's Mole series. They chronicle the agonised musings of Adrian - a sensitive intellectual, struggling with his parents, his mercurial girlfriend Pandora, his friends, Barry Kent - the school bully and the burdens of life in a cul-de-sac in 1980s Leicester.<br /><br />Sue Townsend has a sharp eye for finding comedy in the minutae in British provincial life and Adrian Mole will make you laugh, cringe and despair in equal measures. The later books in the series, featuring the diaries of Adrian Mole in his adult life, while less funny than the first two, are also well worth reading for Mole fans.	2005-01-02
US	49056791	R2FPJJXOYVX6XF	1741040183	909944659	Lonely Planet Bolivia (Lonely Planet Bolivia: Travel Survival Kit)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	One of the worst guidebooks I have used	There are serious flaws with this edition of Lonely Planet Bolivia. The map of Sucre is unusable as the key and points on the street plan don't match up. Other travellers have told me that other street plans in the book have similar problems.<br /><br />At other times the information is incorrect or badly researched.<br /><br />To those thinking of travelling in Bolivia I would seriously recommend using another guidebook.	2004-12-30
US	49056791	RPO1XA0PFRUDL	0140115765	52100239	Utz	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Light as a feather yet extremely deep	Bruce Chatwin was dying in the late 1980s of a mystery disease, he claimed originating from a rare Chinese fungus. It was subsequently confirmed to be AIDS. Utz emerged out of these inauspicious circumstances. Chatwin explained the thinking behind Utz in a letter to his friend, Cary Welch, whilst confined to his bed due to ill health: 'I had thought I'd use the time to read and re-read all the great Russian novels. Instead, hardly able to hold a pen, I launched forth on my story: A tale of Marxist Czechoslovakia conceived in the spirit and style or the Rococo'.<br /><br />As ever, Chatwin could sum up the spirit of his own novels in a few words better than anyone else. But while Utz is certainly ornate, it is not florid and insubstantial like much of the art that the term Rococo is applied to. Utz is a porcelain collector who collects under the shadow of Communist repression which prohibits private ownership of property. The story is said to be based on Chatwin's encounter with Dr Rudolph Just, a businessman and passionate collecter of glass, silver and Meissen who married his housekeeper.<br /><br />The story is ostentiably about the collection of porcelain as an escape from political repression. But within its few pages, the novel explores a great many more themes. Great art as a beacon of hope, the survival of the characters of Old Europe - resolutely immune to political indoctrination, as manifested in the character of Marta, Utz'z housekeeper whom he marries towareds the end of the novel, the Jewish dimension (Utz is partly Jewish) - the notion of collecting as a subversive activity, worshipping idols over God. The pretty little figurines in Utz seem to take over a life of their own as they become imbued with the worries and burdens of the characters. And as a backdrop to all of this, Chatwin penetrates deep into the spirit of Communist Prague better than almost any other novelist who has tried.<br /><br />A gem of a novel.	2004-12-29
US	49056791	R15GKNQWPLSDEA	0141301074	496532448	The Twits	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A tirade against beards	Roald Dahl was anti beards. The Twits originated from an idea jotted down in his notebook. It simply read 'do something against beards'. Thus the character of Mr Twit was born. He had a big, dirty hairy beard that bits of food would stick to. Whenever he was hungry he would stick out his tongue and lap up the morsels of food stuck in the hairs on his face. See Quentin Blake's graphic illustration of this. Truly Mr Twit was a disgusting man.<br /><br />His wife, Mrs Twit was also disgusting, both physically and emotionally. The Twits play all sorts of ghastly tricks on each other involving glass eyes, worms, frogs and other nasty things. The tricks the Twits play on each other are very entertaining. Halfway through the book, Roald Dahl writes 'But that's enough of that. We can't go on forever watching these two disgusting people doing disgusting things to each other'. A shame. I could go on and on reading about their beastly plans they have in store for each other.<br /><br />Justice is done though. The Twits come to, quite literally, a very sticky end courtesy of the Roly-Poly Bird and the Muggle-Wump monkeys. Their scheme to bring down the Twits is ingenious. Read it for yourself to find out...	2004-12-27
US	49056791	R1CXY0QDUIJHWL	0140115773	351715779	What Am I Doing Here	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Master Stylist	This is Bruce Chatwin's dying opus. He edited the pieces in What Am I Doing Here (a quote from one of Rimbaud's letters, writing home from Egypt) whilst weak, fevered and dying from AIDS in 1988. It is the first and best of the collections of Chatwin's shorter writings, composed of articles written when writing for the Sunday Times Magazine in the early 1970s, other newspaper articles, Granta contributions and other miscellaneous pieces.<br /><br />This compendium, arguably more than any of his other travel books and novels, gives a good insight into the complex and fascinating life Chatwin lived, always in pursuit of the bizzare, the exotic, the beautiful and a good story. Chatwin's writings cover themes as dispirate as travel, art, politics, people and literature. Always discussed in a terse, erudite style that became his trademark. The breadth and depth of Chatwin's knowledge is incredible, thus these writings are not the most accessible. Some appreciation of art history, literature and anthropology for example is necessary to comprehend some of the more esoteric pieces in the collection.<br /><br />Readers who give Chatwin the time will be able to unravel a wealth of brilliantly illuminated stories. From personal tales about family members, meetings with fabulously well connected and artistic people - such as George Costakis the Soviet art collector and Madeline Vionnet the French dressmaker, descriptions of his travels to far flung places - Patagonia, Afghanistan, China, searching for yeti in the Himalayas - the list goes on, one never fails to marvel at the rich tapestry that comprised Chatwin's life. Certainly, he lived a life about as far from the mundane as it is possible to get.<br /><br />How did Chatwin manage to constantly encounter such fascinating and varied people and draw out their stories? Part of the reason lies in his connections from his days working as Sotheby's, another explanation lies in his innate charm that seduced men and women all over the world. Also it should be remembered that Chatwin was frequently liberal with the truth in order to tell a story that fitted with his own remarkable perception of the world and its inhabitants. At times he put the fictional process to work in odd instances - his biographical piece on the artist Howard Hodgkin for instance has been declared innacurate by Hodgkin himself, and this as explained in the bibliographical note was published as a 'portrait of the artist' to accompany the catalogue for the Tate Gallery exhibition 'Howard Hodgkin's Indian Leaves'! How did Chatwin get away with it? The truth will probably never fully out, but I would recommend Nicholas Shakespeare's excellent biography 'Bruce Chatwin' for readers interested in finding out more about Chatwin's life.<br /><br />As a final note, I agree with the opinion of Salman Rushdie that the four short pieces at the end of the book 'Tales of the Art World', written in the last year of Chatwin's life are among the best he ever wrote. Four final drops of genius that Chatwin left before departing this world.ll over the world. Also it should be remembered that Chatwin was frequently liberal with the truth in order to tell a story that fitted with his own remarkable perception of the world and its inhabitants. At times he put the fictional process to work in odd instances - his biographical piece on the artist Howard Hodgkin for instance has been declared innacurate by Hodgkin himself, and this as explained in the bibliographical note was published as a 'portrait of the artist' to accompany the catalogue for the Tate Gallery exhibition 'Howard Hodgkin's Indian Leaves'! How did Chatwin get away with it? The truth will probably never fully out, but I would recommend Nicholas Shakespeare's excellent biography 'Bruce Chatwin' for readers interested in finding out more about Chatwin's life.  <br /> <br />As a final note, I agree with the opinion of Salman Rushdie that the four short pieces at the end of the book 'Tales of the Art World', written in the last year of Chatwin's life are among the best he ever wrote. Four final drops of genius that Chatwin left before departing this world.	2004-12-22
US	49056791	R3129A1VW6YFOF	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Dan Brown is huge. Why?	This website's editorial view describes Angels and Demons as a 'no holds barred, pull out all the stops, breathless tangle of a thriller'. What's that supposed to mean? I thought all thrillers were meant to have those characteristics. What sets Dan Brown's thrillers apart from the mass of pulp fiction that vast reams of second rate thriller witers produce?<br /><br />There are a great many thrillers around. Browsing book exchanges all over South America recently, it is clear this is the genre that dominates the shelves. And out of all the big name thriller writers, Dan Brown is the hottest right now. He is so huge that I encountered three hikers cramped in a small tent in a remote part Bolivian jungle all lying in their sleeping bags, each devouring their own dog eared copies of Dan Brown's thrillers, all unable to put their books down despite the onset of a thunderstorm that threatened to cascade through the fabric of tent.<br /><br />There is no doubt that Dan Brown is the biggest novelist in the world right now, so I had to try him out.<br /><br />Angels and Demons is not a bad story. There is surely nothing to add comment wise regarding the plot that is not contained within the previous hundreds of reviews. It is big, bold, ambitious novel tackling monumental themes - the science v religion debate, morality, the threat of genocide. Razor sharp cutting edge scientific developments such as Mach 15 aircraft and anti matter are woven skillfully into the story. At times the plot is pulsating and page turning, at other times it is rediculous.<br /><br />Overall it is a clever, articulate, aerodite thriller, but there are lots of these around. Why is Dan Brown such a blockbuster novelist? Maybe it is luck, maybe I am missing something.	2004-12-09
US	49056791	R11R5RUP37UAM8	0679744711	216030075	Another Country	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Aggressive, wide ranging social commentary	The characters, style and tone of the novel are very much 60s and 70s New York. But the issues Baldwin explores in this hard hitting, gritty novel present a piercing, kelidoscopic view of much of contemporary culture - love, friendship, struggling artists grappling with commercialism, homosexuality, gender, race. The characters in this novel are not always appealing, frequently seedy and embroiled in the seemier aspects of urban American life.<br /><br />The tone of the novel is not always easy to handle. It starts with pummelling, aggressive prose and remains that way until the conclusion. The reader is drawn into a broiling stew of difficult social relations and little respite is granted.	2004-11-22
US	49056791	R1RMRUPFIRCBEX	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The dark side of the American Dream	Like no other country, America's greatest writers periodically produce wide scope, zeitgeist state of the nation novels that attempt to encapsulate an entire social commentary in one novel. For me, the best of these is Tom Wolfe's 'Bonfire of the Vanities'. But American Pastoral comes a close second. In this novel, Roth lavishly rips apart all that is wrong with orthodox, prosperous, middle class American life by telling the story of Seymour Levov 'The Swede', a Jewish, blonde, handsome high school athletic hero who marries Miss New Jersey, inherits his father's glove factory and settles down to domestic idyll in Old Rimrock, New Jersey.<br /><br />What goes wrong? Everything. The Swede's daughter commits an atrocious act of political terrorism and the Swede's comfortable life is savagely blasted apart. How can this happen? The novel concludes with a rhetorical question- 'And what is wrong with their life? What on earth is less reprehensible than the life of the Levovs?'. What indeed? Roth goes into great depth into answering this question over the course of the preceeding chapters. He draws out the snobbery, narrow mindedness, peer pressure and teenage rebellions of affluent Americans with characteristic rich, subtle prose. The characters are portrated realistically and sympathetically. By the end of the novel, one is left in no doubt as to why The Swede's life went so catastrophically wrong. This probably is Roth's masterpiece and probably deserving of the Pulitzer Prize it was subsequently awarded.<br /><br />Is it flawless? No, it could do with some judicious editing at times as sometimes the luscious, hard hitting prose is over verbose. But what editor would have the balls to go through the manuscript of such an established Writer as Roth and suggest swingeing cuts? And I am not an unconditional fan of the way Roth portrays the Jewish dimension in the novel. This is an important part of the plot, as the Levovs are a Jewish family, envious of WASP goyism. But at times I sense that Roth has somewhat of an axe to grind and his attempts to portray the anti semitism prevalent in East Coast America slightly distort this aspect of what is otherwise a brilliantly drawn and executed novel.But at times I sense that Roth has somewhat of an axe to grind and his attempts to portray the anti semitism prevalent in East Coast America slightly distort this aspect of what is otherwise a brilliantly drawn and executed novel.	2004-11-11
US	49056791	R3K46AA3MN0RH4	0834003465	869705717	Boldtext Pew Bible: King James Version	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Good read, but could do with some editing	Not a bad book. Contains some of my favourite literature ever. As Mark Twain put it 'It's full of interest, has noble poetry in it, some clever fables, some blood drenched history, some good morals, a wealth of obscenity and upwards of a thousand lies'.	2004-11-11
US	49056791	R2GK2R5QGZ3W4Q	0708926304	250558300	Inca-Kola: A Traveller's Tale of Peru (U (Ulverscroft Large Print Series)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Tory Boy Backpacker	Inca Kola is considered by many to be one of the quintessential backpacker reads about this part of the world. It tells the story, narrated by Matthew Parris- former Conservative MP and current parliamentary sketchwriter for the Times - of a group of friends as they embark on an adventurous trip around Peru encompassing gruelling hikes in the northern mountains, hair raising bus rides and encounters with interesting local characters along the way.<br /><br />The group does not cover large areas of Peru, but the areas they visit Parris describes with a vibrant and witty style. He is at his funniest when wryly describing everyday scenes- such as the traffic in Lima and the dialogue between his friends and Peruvians- such as when they wind up one of the group by telling a guide that he is impotent. There is much in the way of amusing incident along the way, although sometimes there is a sense that Parris tries too hard to eke an amusing anecdote out of an uneventful set of circumstances.<br /><br />What sets this book back is Parris's frequently condescending style towards those he meets, as is often the case when a British Conservative MP travels into unfamiliar territory in order to make sense of the socioeconomic make up of the place. He belittles street hawkers, describing them as having 'no enthusiasm in commerce', as if he expects near starving beggars to go about their daily business with as much enthusiasm as Donald Trump. This trait is repeated throughout the book as he describes 'filthy Andean peasants' and paints a mocking picture of a little girl startled whilst urinating by a train emerging suddenly from a tunnel.<br /><br />There are many unfortunate people in Peru, as with all Third World countries, and no doubt Parris was attempting to convey an accurate picture of the scenes he saw. But the superior, snobbish tone that comes through in many of the passages left me thinking that there must be observers with a different voice that could bring alive the facets of this fascinating country in a more sensitive, multi appreciative way.ive the facets of this fascinating country in a more sensitive, multi appreciative way.	2004-10-30
US	49056791	R23UWUMELU1LT3	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Brave and bold	Mark Haddon is a brave author. To attempt a novel where the narrator is a 15 year old autistic boy with extremely limited emotional intelligence is a bold manouever. With such attempts, there is always the danger that the narrative will appear unrealistic or over sentimental.<br /><br />Haddon avoids these traps however. He makes the narrator, Christopher, a maths genius, exhibiting the 'little professor' symptoms that some aspergers children display. His extremely developed logical ability allows him to tell his story in a manner inspired by his favourite novel, The Hound of the Baskervills. In trying to solve the mystery of who killed Wellington- his neighbour's dog, he is able to train himself to think like a detective (ableit an innocent and unique one) without his adventures becomming bogged down in a malestrom of sensory overload.<br /><br />Haddon also has experience of working with autistic children, and describes the problems of Christopher's mind intelligently and sensitively. For example he has him play complex mathematical games in his head when the outside world gets too much and likens his brain to a computer which shuts down when it is unable to cope with the massive dose of sensory information that Christopher is faced with, his mind unable to selectively filter what information is essential like non autistic children. Haddon's portrayal seems realistic, although maybe at times  Christopher appears too much of a genius for a boy of his age and characteristics. It would be interesting to hear the opinions of an aspergers sufferer on Mark Haddon's fictional creation.<br /><br />The only reservation I have with the novel is the ending. It is nice, tidy and logical. Which ties in with Christopher's desire for order. But it has an artificial ring to it. For life in Christopher's case can never have a tidy conclusion, like the endings in detective novels. For his autism continues, and human relations are a constant struggle. I was left sensing that the main mystery - how Christopher will learn to cope as he enters adulthood, is yet to be solved.t the main mystery - how Christopher will learn to cope as he enters adulthood, is yet to be solved.	2004-10-26
US	49056791	R2O937YG8BNL28	1740592093	514322266	Lonely Planet Peru	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Useful, but insufficient	Lonely Planet Peru exhibits the standard advantages and deficiencies of a guide that attempts to cover the entirity of what is a large and diverse country. I used the guide predominantly in my travels in Cuzco and the surrounding area so the information may not be applicable for other parts.<br /><br />On the plus side, the information is generally accurate and reasonably comprehensive. Useful bars, restaurants, museums, hostels, bus stops and other useful locations are mentioned. Of course, there are plenty of other places that are missed out but that is to be expected in a guide that is this concise.<br /><br />The street maps are good and reasonably well detailed, although it would be useful if some plans of smaller towns (such as Chinchero) that are popular with tourists could be included in a future edition.<br /><br />Sections detailing the history and culture of the country are informative but brief.<br /><br />The main negative I found with the book is, that like many country guidebooks, it focuses too heavily on the showpiece attractions (such as Machu Picchu) where plenty of information is available anyway and not enough on the smaller attractions (such as the smaller Inca ruins) where it is often difficult to ascertain where they are and what their significance is.<br /><br />Overall, Lonely Planet Peru is a useful basic guidebook to the country, but a traveller wishing to find out things in more detail will need to scour other sources of information as well.	2004-10-26
US	49056791	R5DUVQ2DG7F17	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Skewers the idle rich- hook, line and sinker	The Great Gatsby is a famous novel, short novel, a rich novel- a novel that encapsulates many of the values, customs and characters of a certain era. Fitzgerald draws in his simple, careful, detailed style characters that are memorable for the characteristics they display, typical of the 20s flapper generation. Jay Gatsby- highlighting the strength of the appeal and ultimately failure of the American Dream, Daisy- beautiful, rich and reckless, Tom Buchannan- encapsulating the snobbery and harshness of many of the East Coast rich, Nick Carraway- a subtly drawn narrator who has many of the reactions associated with those who enter the inner circle of the wealthy- the curiosity, the fascination, the horror and the despising of their values. And Mrytle Wilson- representing the other side of the coin- from a poor background yet desperately enamoured with the world of the rich and turning up her nose at those close to her to climb up the social spectrum.<br /><br />The Great Gatsby shows up the hollow, nasty, reckless, superficiality prevalent in certain sectors of society better than any other novel I know. A timeless classic.	2004-10-22
US	49056791	R18RWXZ5PW22PZ	0312420331	603875347	Crash: A Novel	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The extreme of Ballard's ouevre	In his 1995 introduction to 'Crash' Ballard explains that the traditional methods of the writer- linear narrative, examination of the subtle nuances of social behavour and personal relationships  in a self-sufficient, self enclosed world with the author, like an examiner, knowing all the questions in advance- are no longer suitable to chronicle the morality and culture of the late 20th Century. Instead, he proposes that, in a sense, the writer knows nothing, has no moral stance and offers the reader the contents of his own head. A set of imaginative postulations, analagous to a scientist offering hypothesis to deal with an unknown terrain.<br /><br />Given this, one should not expect Crash to be a conventional novel. When it first emerged, the hallucionatory auto-eroticism of the novel, centering around a film maker who becomes transfixed by the erotic experiments that Vaughan, a 'hoodlum scientist' and 'nightmare angel of the expressways' performs on crash victims did not appeal to everyone. The 23 year old Martin Amis described the novel as 'possibly the most extreme example in fiction of how beautiful and lavishly someone can write 70,000 words of vicious nonsense'.<br /><br />Now, more than 30 years on, the novel has garnered cult status and certainly makes interesting reading for the way Ballard constructs a nightmare world in what Malcom Bradbury of the New York Times described as the 'deprived spaces of modern life' - the motion sculptures of urban expressways and airport surroundings. The prose describes in intense detail the subconcious fixation with car crash aftermaths, linking sex and the technology of the machine in a sinister coagulation of semen and the smells of automobile wreckage. As the characters become increasngly desensitised from the scenes they witness, the sex scenes become less 'sexual' and more natural - Ballard describes the scene when Vaughan maes love to the narrator's wife as following a 'perverse logic'.<br /><br />The reader becomes drawn into this world, and possibly desensitised to the auto erotic violence too. Then out again on completion of the novel. It is a well written exposition of a sensuous, scarred, nightmare world at the far extremes of our imagination. But that is about the extent of it. There is little content in the novel to retain in the reader's imagination beyond this. So in a sense, 'vicious nonsense' is an apt summary of Crash.becomes drawn into this world, and possibly desensitised to the auto erotic violence too. Then out again on completion of the novel. It is a well written exposition of a sensuous, scarred, nightmare world at the far extremes of our imagination. But that is about the extent of it. There is little content in the novel to retain in the reader's imagination beyond this. So in a sense, 'vicious nonsense' is an apt summary of Crash.	2004-10-21
US	49056791	R5UGQHGAR39OF	0140094296	458351721	The Songlines	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Chatwin finally throws down his theories on nomadism	Late on in the Songlines, Bruce Chatwin writes: 'Before coming to Australia, I'd often talk about the Songlines and people would inevitably be reminded of something else'. This sentence seems to sum up 'The Songlines'. The book begins as a travelogue of Chatwin's travels across Australia, written in a clean, crisp, pared down style - reminiscient of Hemmingway, one of Chatwin's foremost influences. He attempts to unravel the stories behind the Aboriginal songlines but does this in a roundabout way, largely talking to non Aboriginal experts such as Arkady, the son of a Ukranian exile rather than Aboriginals themselves.<br /><br />  Approximately halfway through the book, the Songlines turns into a repository for a vast array of extracts from Chatwin's notebooks, chronicling his lifetime of travels. An enchanting jambouree of quotes from famous thinkers anthropological and psychological theories on the innate nomadic instincts of man, witty recollections of conversations Chatwin encountered with characters on the road and even what appears to be an alternative story of the fall of man, stemming from the Biblical story of the sedentary Cain murdering Abel, his footloose brother, thus setting in place the destruvtive history of civilised man, choosing to settle in one place rather than wander according to his natural instincts.<br /><br />  The Songlines appears to be the filtered product of Chatwin's failed attempt to write a book on nomads. As he explains in one of his notebook entries, the following Chinese ode taught him the futility of this: 'Useless to ask a wandering man advice on the construction of a house. The work will never come to completion'. The result is a work of immense scope but rather limited structure and coherence. As if Chatwin towards the end of his life, exasperated with how to present the vast quantity of material he had accumulated on travel and wandering, decided to throw it all down at once saying 'here it is, make of it what you will'.<br /><br />Consequently, I am not sure exactly what to make of the Songlines. For more scholarly, coherent theories on the themes Chatwin explores in this book, I suppose it would be better to read the works of some of the gurus, such as the African archeologist Bob Brain, that Chatwin probed for knowledge throughout his travelling life. But for an interesting mixture of potted theories on nomadism and a well crafted travel journal that really brings out the dry heat and bush scrub of Central Australia, the Songlines is extremely entertaining.equently, I am not sure exactly what to make of the Songlines. For more scholarly, coherent theories on the themes Chatwin explores in this book, I suppose it would be better to read the works of some of the gurus, such as the African archeologist Bob Brain, that Chatwin probed for knowledge throughout his travelling life. But for an interesting mixture of potted theories on nomadism and a well crafted travel journal that really brings out the dry heat and bush scrub of Central Australia, the Songlines is extremely entertaining.	2004-10-07
US	49056791	R2CAJO75EUG4ST	0452285011	89252422	Join Me!	Books	4	4	4	N	N	When a bloke bet gets out of hand	There is a certain species of twentysomething male (frequently British and living in London) who spends a substantial amount of his time playing video games, watching movies, engaging in spurious debates with his flatmates over cans of lager and embarking on pointless bets for entertainment. Anyone familiar with the 'Men Behaving Badly' comedy series will understand. Sadly the majority of attempts to turn such Stella fuelled ravings into readable material fall sadly flat.<br /><br />  'Join Me' is rather refreshing however. It chronicles the extraordinary but true story of the 'Collective' that Danny Wallace spawns as a result of placing a simple advert in 'Loot Magazine'. The way this collective (Wallace is eager for it not to be called a cult) takes on a life of its own as its increasingly bewildered leader tries to formulate a purpose for his creation leads to encounters with characters from the more derivative sides of British life - witness a Metallica obsessed vicar from Inverness.<br /><br />  Wallace tells his story in a witty, engaging and light hearted manner that really brings out the element of 'good blokeness in him'. The story rattles along well, with several improbable coincidences happening to Danny to ensure his project does not become tedious such as his discovery that the first person his joinees helped on his 'Make an old man happy' mission was a convicted con man. And the reader really feels for Hanne, Danny's long suffering girlfriend who is kept in the dark about his harebrained scheme for so long.<br /><br />  The book could have been a rather sad depiction of a bloke bet that went a bit far, but Wallace is funny and intelligent enough to avoid slipping into that mode. The end is a little flat compared to the end of the book, one half expects the joinee collective to turn into something really remarkable. But it is an enjoyable romp through the semi lunatic antics of one personable and funny young Londoner.	2004-09-28
US	49056791	R2SQR8L32HRVAA	0140068961	77751959	On the Black Hill: A Novel	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Paradoxically, Chatwin at his best in rural Wales	On the Black Hill is, on the face of it, a paradoxically British novel to emerge from the pen of a writer renowned for his curiousity for travel, the exotic and the fantastic. Following on from the Viceroy of Ouidah, a fantastical story set in 19th Century West Africa, 'On the Black Hill' tells the story of two twin boys, Benjamin and Lewis who they spend the entirety of their lives farming in rural Wales.<br /><br />  Chatwin masterfully captures the subtelties of the Welsh countryside - the roughshod agricultural basis to everyday life, the elitism and mannerisms of the gentry, the subtle changes in the weather, the dark, brooding landscapes and the eccentric and intriguing characters of the local community.<br /><br />  For my money, Chatwin is at his best when using his talent for descriptive prose to describe the everyday rather than the fantastic. His eye for detail and story telling enable him to bring the lives of insular rural types to life in a way that sets 'On the Black Hill' apart from the large body of books written about British country life. The plot develops gently and gradually, with events such as the First World War and the development of the motor car affecting the community in realistic and entertaining ways. One emphathises with the characters as their lives are shaped and developed and the 20th Century history of the area is bought to life in a manner that few other rural novels manage.<br /><br />  Chatwin the nomad actually excells when involved much closer to home than one might imagine.	2004-09-25
US	49056791	RVQCUT824IZKT	0140112901	319809485	The Viceroy of Ouidah	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Shining, but ultimately unsatisfactory	I am not a great fan of this novel. For me, this is Chatwin at his most show offy. This book followed hot on the heels of his thumpingly successful debut 'In Patagonia' and Chatwin was clearly garnering a reputation for describing far flung places in an original and inventive way. This he does in the Viceroy of Ouidah, a short biographical novel about the Brazillian Manoel de Silva who rose from poverty and obscurity to become the head of slave trading in Dahomey, now Benin in West Africa. A potentially brilliant framework for Chatwin's prose style to let rip you might think, but I think he goes overboard on the lush descriptions of the geography, climate and people of the regions he illuminates and loses sight of how to really engage the reader in the novel.<br /><br />This novel was not all that well received when it first came out. His next work 'On the Black Hill' reveived the 1982 Whitbread Literary Award for Best First Novel, overlooking the fact that Chatwin had alreay published Viceroy previously and I think this is telling. I found the novel lacking in the gripping substance, intangible though that may be that really makes a great novel. Like one of the many works of art Chatwin catalogued when he was working at Sotheby's, it is a glistening gem, but beneath the surface, there is little that stirs the soul and lodges in the memory as passages of great fiction do.<br /><br />Still worth reading though, as Chatwin at his worst is better than many writers at their best.	2004-09-17
US	49056791	R1HUYJVAJ7L1P3	0679731377	62087535	A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A worm's eye view of history	This was one of my favourite books of the year. It is often difficult to decipher exactly what Julian Barnes is getting at in his writing as he likes to present a detatched, intellectual view of the world with many different points of view incorporated in his immaculately constructed prose. A History of the World is, in essence, a series of essays describing various dispirate angles of history from the little man's perspective. Never is this done better than in chapter one, a brilliant and original short story describing the voyage of Noah's ark from the mouth of a stowaway woodworm.<br /><br />Other parts I enjoyed was the short chapter on love, an exemplary piece of prose that can only come from the mind of a great thinker who has pondered deeply what it is to be in love. Three superb short stories deconstructing the myth of Jonah and the whale, a comic tale of a Titanic survivor and a ship carrying Jewish refugees on a futile voyage around the States were particularly memorable in different ways. And for a prime example of the pure intellectual strand of Barnes' writing, sample his essay on art history concerning a portrait of 'The sinking of the Medusa'. You will never pass by a picture with a cursory glance again.<br /><br />I am aware that Barnes insists this work is a novel, claiming that 'things in it thicken and deepen' but I think it is essentially a collection of original and thought provoking essays. A worms eye view of history.	2004-09-17
US	49056791	R193PY6GF03RDI	0385498306	778801859	Bruce Chatwin: A Biography	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant biography- if you are already a Chatwin fan	I loved this book. I thought it was the best biography I have ever read. But, like shakespeare, I am biased, coming into the reading of it already captivated by Chatwin's writings and personality. Those who are of a similar disposition must read this book, each line is carefully researched and laid out to present the complex facets of Chatwin's life in all its glory.<br /><br />People who are not Chatwin fans will probably find this book so so, and may feel annoyed by the selfish, arrogant, insensitive and, at times, brutal attitude of Chatwin's personality - exemplified over issues such as his explotation of people in Patagonia and Australia to generate his own unique material for 'In Patagonia' and 'The Songlines' and his frequent betrayal of his devoted wife. Some people I know even think Chatwin deserved his premature death in 1989 from Aids.<br /><br />Although Shakespeare is obviously in the former category- in a review of Utz he calls Chatwin 'the greatest stylist writing in England today'. But he does consider all the sides of Chatwin's remarkable personality and left me at the end shaking my head at what a remarkable life he led, wishing I could have met him in the flesh.	2004-07-22
US	49056791	R1DANYMLO1OM4R	190230165X	872322439	William Hague: In His Own Right	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A biography rushed off too soon	William Hague is undoubtedly an extremely talented politician. Nadler gives his early meteoric rise from Yorkshire state school, through Oxford supremo and McKinseys to bright young thing in the Tory cabinet and election as leader in 1997 a competent yet fairly hands off depiction. This is not one of those bold, detailed tour de force biographies that really probes deep into the actions, mind, personality and motivations of its subject. I think such a work will only be possible when Hague's career is finished.<br />The book also appears dated now as it does not cover the ill fated months of the end of his stint as Tory leader from 1999-2001. I I thought the book was ultimately an interesting if pretty unstimulating summary of a talented life that may have a few more twists and turns to come.	2004-07-18
US	49056791	R23NT50SUIKJ6B	058243050X	984847854	Rogue Trader (Penguin Readers, Level 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Better than most thrillers around	If Nick Leeson is still pondering what to do now almost ten years after his shocking trading actions that brought down one of Britain's oldest and most respectable banks he could do worse than turn his hand to thrillers. 'Rogue Trader' has the page turning, action packed qualities that put it in the same genre as writers such as Jeffrey Archer and James Patterson- the major difference being that Nick Leeson's story is true. The tale of how he secretly traded on increasingly large and reckless gambles, elaborately concealing his actions from the Barings bosses who were too arrogant and snobbish to investigate exactly what was going on in the Singapore office builds into a pulsating climax. Everyone reading this knows the ending but this doesn't spoil the drama. Some of the financial descriptions may be beyond some readers not versed in the workings of the international money markets but the  book is not heavy on jargon. Certainly it is not overly complex so as to cloud the underlying story of a brash young man placed in a postion where he increasingly found he could not cope with events spiralling out of control.	2004-06-12
US	49056791	RFVUP02YKGS27	0306813432	963231451	The Metrosexual Guide To Style: A Handbook For The Modern Man	Books	1	5	12	N	Y	Don't need it, don't bother	The contents of this book are so elementary and insubstantial that I can't see how anyone would benefit from reading it. If you are metrosexual already- you'll have picked all of this stuff up quickly- such as what the essential components of a stylish wardrobe are, basic Franch and Italian dining terminology and how to treat a lady on a date. If you're not metrosexual, you will probably roll your eyes at such poncing piffle and won't bother with it anyway.	2004-05-24
US	49056791	R2GH3606USUDLI	014011291X	181867548	In Patagonia	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Where the Jumblies Live	I was browsing the shelves of the travel section of a large bookshop recently. 'In Patagonia' appealed to me for three reasons. Firstly, I am planning a long trip to South America and am keen to read any writing covering that area. Secondly, I was captivated by Paul Theroux's comment on the back cover of the Vintage edition that Bruce Chatwin has found a remote place 'like the Land where the Jubmlies live'. I love eccentric people and places. Thirdly, I was intrigued by the pictures in the centre of the book - a corrugated iron hut on wheels, a run down station in the middle of nowhere, a set of hand prints on a cave wall and other peculiar and whimsical images relating to the places Chatwin visited on his travels and the stories he collected on the way. For these reasons, I had to read it.<br />  What emerges is an extraordinary chronicle of the nomadic wanderings of Chatwin during his six month trip to Patagonia (he quit his job at the Sunday Times in order to go there). He begins by describing how he was curious to find out more about a curious beast, of which his grandmother had a fragment of skin, but soon becomes waylaid by a bizzarre succession of people and stories that build upon each other as the book progresses like a ramshackle house of cards.<br /><br />It is the stories that form the essence of the book. There is description of the geography and physical characteristics of the region but only in brief passages as a setting to another piece of Patagonian folklore. Chatwin clearly has an ear for a good story and an almost dilletante, enquiring mind. Also, in the manner of a skilled raconteur, he is frequently economical with the truth in order to include his own even better facts. Thus the book is a fascinating conglomerate of part travel writing, part sociology, part history, part anthropology and part fiction.<br /><br />I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reaing quirky, original and imaginative travel writing.	2004-05-24
