US	49059127	R1HRVP00RSP8V6	0879755598	260963876	The Essence of Christianity (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	29	34	N	N	Anthropology	\\"Conscousness of God is self-consciousness, knowledge of God is self-knowledge.\\" wrote Ludwig Feuerbach (1804-1872) in his landmark text ESSENCE of CHRISTIANITY.  Atheism had found its critical voice in a student of Hegel. <br /> <br />Feuerbach took on the task of showing that the antithesis of divine and human is altogether illusory, that it is nothing else than the antithesis between the human nature in general and the human individual; that, consequently, the object and contents of the Christian religion are altogether.  God is a projection of the highest human values. <br /> <br />The ideal of humanity, realized collectively by the aggregate of all human experience, replaces a divine ideal.  Feuerbach contends that the consciousness of God is nothing else than the concsiousness of the species; that man can and should raise himself only above the limits of his individuality, and not above the laws, the positive essential conditions of his species; that there is no other essence which man can think, dream of imagine, feel, believe in, wish for, love and adore as the absolute, than the essence of human nature itself. <br /> <br />Although he espouses a distorted and often inaccurate picture as a result of his completely arbitrary use of biblical and ecclesiastical texts and facts, Feuerbach addresses a very real problem with Christianity, specifically, and religion, in general.  Namely, that a heavenly focus can sometimes be of no earthly value.  Feuerbach saw the evil that persisted in the world exacerbated by the neglect fostered by religious institutions.  But does Feuerbach offer anything more concrete when he speculates on an ideal of a collective humanity? <br /> <br />Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud were both greatly influenced by Feuerbach's work.  Marx offered a socio-economic system of dialectical conflict.  Marxist socio-economic solutions have shown themselves to be no more compassionate to the problems of humanity than the systems they tried to replace.Freud's psychoanalysis viewed religious ideas as the fulfillments of the oldest, strongest and most urgent wishes of mankind.  This is quite true and the believer in God can say the same.  Feuerbach's, and subsequently, Marx and Freud's, atheism turns out to be a hypothesis that has not been conclusively proved, nor disproved. <br /> <br />Herr Doktor Hans Kng in his landmark text _Does God Exist?_ identifies three points in Feuerbach's critique of religion that religious and spiritual people would do well to consider.  _Have not Church and theology frequently defended God at the expense of man, the hereafter at the expense of the here and now?... Is it not clear at this point how close we are to atheism if we do not distinguish between theological and anthropological propositions, if we identify man's interest with God's, if we one-sidedly stress God's nonobjectivity, almost see God as absorbed in our neighbor and the mystery of being simply as the mystery of love?... The weaknesses in the first place are those of an all-too-nave, anthropomorphic talk about God, his words and deeds, in metaphors, formulas predicates, that are actually more appropriate to the reality of man than to the reality of God... But the weaknesses are also those of philosophical-speculative talk about God..._ <br /> <br />For my own spiritual relationship, I can accept Feuerbach's anthropological argument.   Assigning God as the ideal of human values does not bring my spiritual relationship any closer to my individual experience.  Instead, it tends to remove my commitment from the experiences of my life directly opposed to Feuerbach's intent.  My spiritual relationship becomes yet one more humanist tool with which to navigate through the challenges of life.  On the other hand, I find strength in my spiritual commiment when the circumstances of my life become opportunities of faith.  When my own individuality, denied by both Feuerbach and Hegel, is acknowledged, I am not only more aware ofmy shortcomings but also, my own capacity for a spiritual relationship.  Whether this is theology or anthropology, I encourage each reader to decide on their own. <br /> <br />If you are interested in the origins of atheism, the development of western philosophy or in challenging your spiritual assumptions, this book may be interesting to you. <br /> <br />PEACE <br />Catrina	2004-09-17
US	49059127	RSPRUAHLV9KV4	0198245971	806887536	Phenomenology of Spirit	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Question of Trust	_For it is the nature of humanity to press onward to agreement with others; human nature only really exists in an achieved community of minds_ Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831). <br /> <br />The success of Hegel's philosophical construction is witnessed in its pervasive acceptance.  It is generally understood that OBJECT and SUBJECT are interrelated in the development of knowledge through our experience.  Our knowledge changes and so too does the object.   <br /> <br />For example, we accept that a news report contains the bias of the reporter.  Further, that deeper understanding is gained when we are able to correct our own misconceptions and yet move forward in our exploration.  As Herr Doktor Hans Kng observes in his landmark text, DOES GOD EXIST, _The essential background of this phenomenology of spirit is that absolute knowledge and human knowledge from the very outset are not separate but are linked in a still unexplicated unity._ <br /> <br />Hegel wrote this text because he desired to reconcile the philosophy and theology of his time.  The French Enlightenment had left behind the anthropormophic representations of God with rigid understandings developed by the Greek philosophers, chiefly Plato and Aristotle.  In its place was a rationalistic, Deistic image of a being existing in an intellectual or metaphysical sense.  The Romantic age of Hegel was interested only in God in the world and the world in God. <br /> <br />The serious side of Hegel is well-known.  What is less known is that Hegel writes with a clever sense of humour.  When describing the habit our conscious has of judging our actions, he compares it to a servant, noting, _No man is a hero to his valet_. (#665).  Professor Hegel also betrays a frustration with students who think themselves too clever. _Consequently, we do not need to import criteria; or make use of our own bright ideas and thoughts during the course of the inquiry. When we leave these aside, we succeed in contemplating thematter at hand as it is in and for itself._ (#84)  <br /> <br />Hegel developed a system in which the understanding of anything is a function of the Object it-self, our understanding of the Object in our conscious mind (i.e. NOTION, speculative predicate) and what the object is becoming as the discrepencies between the Object and Notion are removed.  This dialectic is continually growing and developing.  Consciousness finds its knowledge does not correspond to its object. (i.e. the object does not stand the test).  The criterion is then altered.  The testing is not only a testing of what we know but also a testing of the criterion of what knowing is.  The goal is necessarily fixed, in Hegel's mind, on the point where Notion and Object correspond. <br /> <br />Criticism of Hegel's philosophy disgrees with the humanistic, socio-political outcome that history would develop into a Utopia.  The dialectic was seen in history by Hegel as developing ever better conditions through progress -- not an uncommon view of his time.  Regretably, history has not co-operated.  It seems that evil as being-within-itself has progressed as rapidly.  Nonetheless, Hegel's system has yet to be supplanted, sublimated or superseded.  Positivism has suceeded as the current frame of reference largely only by ignoring Hegel's speculative dialectic. <br /> <br />What does this mean to someone, like myself, who is interested in spiritual matters?  Does Hegel's Phenomenoly of Spirit provide a tool to reconcile philosophy with theology as it was intended?  I find that my spiritual commitment has indeed been strengthened.  Hegel establishes the conscious as the portal for a spiritual relationship.  My preconcieved notions are continually held in check as circumstance denies them.  But rather than negating the reality of this relationship, a new form immediately arises.  In the negation , the transition is made through which the progress through the complete series of forms comes about to a deeper spiritual commitment. <br /> <br />If you are interested in the philosophical and theological frame of reference of current western civilization, this book will interest you. <br /> <br />PAZ <br />Catrina	2004-08-29
US	49059127	R1JZSH4FJWXY9D	0140446451	478752347	Pensees (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	16	N	N	reasonable faith	_One must know when it is right to doubt, to affirm, to submit. Anyone who does otherwise does not understand the force of reason. Some men run counter to these three principles, either affirming that everything can be proved, because they know nothing about proof, or doubting everything, because they do not know when to submit, or always submitting, because they do not know when judgment is called for_        Blaise Pascal found his faith to be the basis of reason. In this collection of his thoughts, the Pensees provide a glimpse of how he may have arrived at this concept. Further, he expresses the impact of this revelation on his own thinking in a way that transcends time and place. People throughout the centuries, some of whom have never known of Pascal's other contributions, have found encouragement in the Pensees.        The introduction by A. J. Krailsheimer provides an excellent background of the life of Pascal and his influences. The argument which Pascal uses to fortify his faith is given a thorough development that provides a course and direction to the otherwise often disconnected thoughts. Professor Krailsheimer points out that Pascal is in a paradoxical position of appealing to reason in order to communicate truths which, on his own showing, are outside its province. The paradox is that only reason can persuade reason of its own inadequacy.        Pascal's starting point is that the temporal world is inadequate to demonstrate eternal truths. Further, Pascal believes that a choice about the eternal is imperative. To leave the decision untested is to actively not decide and to fall into the category of skeptic. Pascal did not hold that ultimate skepticism was possible, maintaining that a _perfectly genuine skeptic has never existed. Nature backs up helpless reason and stops it going to so widely astray._         On the other hand, Pascal does not condone dogmatic acceptance of unsubstantiated presumption. _Is he, on the other hand, to say that he is the certain possessor of truth, when at the slightest pressure he fails to prove his claim and is compelled to loose his grasp?_ Neither certainty not uncertainty can be ultimately proved nor disproved in Pascal's world.        Our friend appears to have painted himself into a corner. Indeed, Pascal has and intentionally so. He appeals to a leap of faith to establish the legitimacy of a faith. Pascal's argument hinges on the concept of prevenient grace. _We shall never believe with an effective belief and faith unless GOD inclines our hearts and we shall believe as soon as he does_ (380).        Pascal's argument benefits from his own miraculous vision that occurred on 23 November 1654. In that experience, he saw the light that guided him the rest of his life; a vision of the Messiah that brought him certainty and joy. This is, at the same time, both the strength and weakness of Pascal's argument.        While I respect the experience of Pascal and others who have witnessed eternity break the temporal barrier, not all of us who faith in the spiritual have this to fortify our convictions. Since there is no way to manufacture such an experience in my own life (neither do I feel that I need to) the type of intensely personal apologetic that Pascal's work represents often strikes a hollow chord.    At the same time, I do find encouragement in Pascal's validation of a personal experience while upholding the certainty that dogma and skepticism will not be silenced.  This is the decision to which I am drawn regularly on my spiritual journey as circumstance comes into conflict with my convictions.  I agree with Pascal that the capacity to acknowledge a spiritual relationship has its source outside of the temporal realm.    This is the stuff of life.  We choose a course without guarentee of the destination.  Each step brings us closer if for no other reason than our experience has grown.        Whether or not one chooses to wager on the side of eternity, as Pascal purports as theonly sensible bet, I find the Pensees to be important for it's unique position in the then nascent era of Science. Pascal's contemporary, Descartes, at whom Pascal points some of his arguments, took a completely different path to establish his faith. Neither of which provides eternal certainty, and thus, both of which are questions still pertinent for today.        PEACE    Catrina	2004-08-02
US	49059127	RV1S7ZE9BXLI5	0060916044	391266764	Love Is Never Enough: How Couples Can Overcome Misunderstandings, Resolve Conflicts, and Solve Relationship Problems Through Cognitive Therapy	Books	5	73	78	N	N	Sustaining a relationship	Aaron T. Beck MD, is the father of cognitive therapy and professor of Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania.  His books on depression and anxiety broke new ground in the field of psychotherapy by demonstrating the power of breaking the link between automatic thoughts and emotional reactions.  He married Judge Phyllis Beck in 1950 and the couple is blessed with children and grandchildren.<br />I have often been frustrated by the destructive habit patterns that emerge in my relationships.  LOVE IS NEVER ENOUGH has helped me to understand their origin and more importantly, how to remove them.  It has been a valuable tool not only for my personal but also my spiritual relationships.<br />Dr Beck writes that, _The essence of marital cognitive therapy consists of exploring with troubled partners their unrealistic expectations, self-defeating attitudes, unjustified negative explanations, and illogical conclusions.  Through a tune-up of their ways of drawing conclusions about each other and talking to each other, partners have been helped by cognitive therapy to relate to each other in a more reasonable, less hostile way.&quot;<br />And it works! The basic principle of Dr Beck's approach is simple yet substantial.  The cornerstone is to strive for a solid foundation of trust, loyalty, respect and security.  In short, to become a committed ally, a supporter and champion of my mate.  Second, cultivate the tender, loving part of the relationship, and finally, strengthen the partnership by developing a sense of cooperation, consideration and compromise.<br />These are lofty goals with abstract meanings.  I have always known that I wanted these admirable attributes as a part of my relationships, however, it was not until I studied Dr Beck's cognitive therapy that I gained the tools required to implement.  By recognizing when distortions automatically enter my thoughts, I am able to resist the naturally tendency of accepting them.  Opposing the temptation to react providesme with control over my emotions and prevents me from falling into destructive behaviours and habit patterns.  I am able to respond in ways that are consistent with my hopes, dreams and goals for my relationship.<br />If you are interested in developing stronger more secure relationships in all parts of your life, this book may be interesting to you.<br />PEACE	2004-07-18
US	49059127	RNBNIZPYGULMR	046087411X	890022491	Discourse on Method (Everyman)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	blue or red pill?	Morpheus: Have you ever had a dream, Neo, that you were so sure was real?  What if you were unable to wake from that dream, Neo? How would you know the difference between the dream world and the real world?<BR> <BR>René Descartes (1596-1650) chose the &quot;red&quot; pill.  He chose to question the comfortable assumptions of his time.  The work of Copernicus and Galileo had exposed flaws that Descartes sought to resolve.  His scientific attitude, his style of thinking, his method set the trend for the future. As Herr Doktor Hans Küng wrote in his landmark text, _Does God Exist?_, _There is no one who personifies the modern ideal of absolute mathematical-philosophical certainty better than the brilliant inaugurator of analytical geometry and modern philosophy._  No one today thinks seriously of science as other than an objective endeavor.  Star Trek's Mr. Spock is admired.<br />Why bother reading Descartes?  It is not a quick read.  The language is difficult and the thought processes are not all clear and distinct.  The reason I am motivated to read Descartes is because I feel that to accept the prevailing scientism without questioning its premise is to deny the basic premise of Descartes.  I have an interest in spiritual matters, and that often leads me to question conceptual certainty.  To ignore Descartes is to take the &quot;blue&quot; pill.  <br />In the excellent introduction to this version, Dr Tom Sorell writes, _This intellectual individualism, and the idea that the typical scientific attitude is one of questioning great deal and asserting only what one can be certain of, are now utterly absorbed in modern thinking about the conduct of enquiry in general. In this respect Descartes is one of the founders of modern thought, not just the father of modern philosophy._<br />Descartes believed that when the methods  and its applications were considered together, it would be possible to see in them the outlines of a comprehensive science capable ofanswering any factual question that the mind could propose.  Many people today still believe this.  The success of scientific discovery and technology, indeed progress, itself, has benefited from this attitude.  Equations relate known to unknown elements.  Difficulties are divided under examination into as many parts as possible with clear relations to one another.  Who questions this approach?  It is the basis of systems theory, of categorizing our world, making it manageable, controlled, predictable.  Subject and object are distinct.<br />Descartes' confidence in his new method can be seen as he applies it to metaphysics, namely the existence of a deity.  Dr Sorell identifies the conclusion that a non-deceiving God exists as _perhaps the most important in the Meditations.  Once it is established it guarantees the truth of 'I am thinking, therefore I am' which otherwise has only subjective certainty_  Descartes' conclusion about God, which he confirms by another proof in Meditation Five, guarantees the reality of precisely those simple things (i.e. shape, size) needed to construct the sort of physics (i.e. a mathematical physics which explains all phenomena as the result of the motions of matter)._ Strangely, the foundational belief in God, so integral to Descartes methods, has been set aside in modern scientism.<br />This skepticism is not entirely groundless because Descartes' proofs of the existence of God have not faired well in history.  His clear and distinct methods, so powerful in characterizing the natural world, have provided certainty of self but are still uncertain of God.  As Dr. Küng points out, _Even Descartes' contemporaries objected that the proof of God appealing to clear and distinct knowledge is in the last resort not conclusive but rests on a vicious circle._  His ontological argument remained conceptually convincing only as long as ideas are granted a reality of their own.<br />Yet, the objective standard set by Descartes, so automatically applied to the natural world, is too often tossed aside when addressing existential or spiritual matters.  Everyone is an expert on religion, it would seem.  The attitude, central to Descartes' methods, of questioning a great deal and asserting only what one can be certain of is utterly ignored outside the field of scientific enquiry.  Dr. Küng writes, _What was the consequence of all this for the relationship between subject and object, reason and faith?  Subject and object were torn apart and existed unconnected alongside each other: there was a cleavage between self-understanding and understanding of the world_  Conceptual certainty is a long way from existential security.<br />Reading A DISCOURSE ON METHOD MEDITATIONS AND PRINCIPLES by René Descartes has helped me to understand the founding principles of my world view.  His example is a role model for me to question this view and to take responsibility for my own assumptions.  It has strengthened my spiritual commitment as I understand the limits of the clear and distinct Cartesian system and move towards my own eternal security.<br />If you are interested in the foundations of modern thought, if you are interested in awakening from the dream that is its embrace, then, this book may be interesting to you.  Ironically, this book is a tool to break from the world view it created.  Descartes is offering you the \\"red\\" pill. ;D<br />PAZ<br />Catrina	2004-07-05
US	49059127	R1UIBPFTUBQMQG	0688036333	336941448	Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy	Books	5	13	16	N	N	cognito ergo sum	_The key to emotional enlightenment is the knowledge that only [my] thoughts can affect [my] moods_  David D. Burns M.D.<br />After studying FEELING GOOD, written by Dr. David D. Burns, M.D., I have learned how to change the way that I think about things.  I have also found that I can change my basic values and beliefs.  This, according to Dr Burns, is what Cognitive Therapy is about.<br />To be clear, I feel this is an excellent handbook for anyone with an interest in Cognitive Therapy.  I strongly believe that a great number of people can find their life's situation improved by following the exercises prescribed by Dr Burns.  <br />At the same time, I don't know that Cognitive Therapy is a cure for every person who suffers from Clinial Depression.  Dr Burns acknowledges this sentiment, writing that it would be unreasonable to expect to improve or recover after reading FEELING GOOD.  The research cited in this text clearly indicates that while many people who read FEELING GOOD improved, others needed the additional help of a mental health professional.  As a responsible health professional, Dr Burns understands that there are also limits to which a self-directed therapy may apply, _Let's assume that you do NOT have a strong suicidal urge, hallucinations, or symptoms of mania_.  he cautions.<br />For the rest of us who might be helped by a program of self-study in Cognitive Therapy, Dr. Burns provides a comprehensive tool.  The first step is to diagnose my moods.   A simple test is offered whose psychometric properties are discussed for the benefit of mental health professionals.  This test is less important in determining a level of depression as it is in monitoring improvement.  Periodic testing will reveal a change in the scores that will act as a positive reinforcement when improving, and will alert that a correction is required when  declining.<br />Before engaging in the exercises, I feel that it is important to understand the principles of Cognitive Therapy as Dr Burns has described them.  A first principle is that ALL moods are created by cognitions or thoughts.  The second principle is that when I am feeling depressed, my thoughts are distorted, and my thinking process is dysfunctional.  Finally, it is the negative thoughts that cause my emotional turmoil and these are ALWAYS containers of gross distortions.  The implication is that my depression is probably not based on accurate perceptions of reality but is often the product of mental slippage.  The degree to which these principles are accepted will determine the efficacy of Dr Burn's program.<br /> Having taken the leap of faith required by Cognitive Therapy, the procedure is clearly articulated.  The first step is to identify the cognitive distortion at work.  It might be an overgeneralization, an unrealistic standard, a case of disqualifying the positive or another of the ten cognitive disorders provided by Dr Burns.  The next step is to compose a rational response, an objective rebuttal.  You won't need to create your own out of thin air because Dr Burns supplies a compendium of examples.  Finally, a coping strategy designed to address the difficulty provides a path to relief.   Although this brief overview does an injustice to the comprehensive tools presented in this handbook, it conveys the general idea that is common to nearly all of them.<br />Give it a shot! See if you don't end up feeling a little bit better.  There is really not much to lose and perhaps, a great deal to be gained. <br />My interest is in spiritual matters.  It is striking to me that the techniques presented by Dr Burns parallel many spiritual disciplines.  In essence a choice is made as to where to apply my faith.  Do I believe the circumstance, or my spiritual commitment?  The techniques in this handbook have helped me to exercise my choice and strengthen my spiritual life.<br />PEACE	2004-03-09
US	49059127	R3P1OXCJ4TIIQ6	0195042298	441591557	Booker T. Washington: Volume 2: The Wizard Of Tuskegee, 1901-1915 (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	deliverer with human traits	_I think you will make a mistake if you will let your mind dwell too much upon American prejudice, or any other racial prejudice.  The thing is for one to get above such things.  If one gets in the habit of continually thinking and talking about race prejudice, he soon gets gets to the point where he is fit for little that is worth doing.  In the northern part of the United States, there are a number of colored people who make their lives miserable, because all their talk is about race prejudice_  Booker T. Washington in a letter to his daughter Portia then living and studying in Europe.(117)<br />I am greatly impressed with this text, BOOKER T. WASINGTON, The Wizard of Tuskegee, 1901-1915.  Professor Louis R. Harlan earned the 1984 Pulitzer Prize for History with this biography along with the Bancroft Prize and the Beveridge Award of the American Historical Association.  The principle source is the Booker T Washington Papers in the Division of Manuscripts of the LIbrary of Congress, a rich, expanding collection of approximately a million letters, speeches, reports, newspaper clippings, and other documents.  Professor Harlan is the editor of the published source that extends, currently, to 14 volumes. This material is available on-line in an Open-Book format at the site maintained by the University of Illinois Press ([...]<br />This book begins in 1901, when Booker T. Washington at the age of forty-five was approaching the zenith of his fame and influence, and ends with his death in 1915.  It is a biographical study in the sense that its focus is on the complex, enigmatic figure of Washington, the most powerful black minority-group boss of his time.  It also recounts the inner life and struggles of the small black middle class in that generation once removed from slavery, as a coterie of college-bred black men and women challenged Washington's powerful coalition of northern, white philanthropists, southern white paternalists, black businessmen, and such members of the black professional class as he could attract to his side.<br />Washington's wizardry - his skill of maneuver and ability to make the most of bad circumstances - was his strong point as a leader.  His greatest failing was his inability to reverse the hard times for blacks during what whites called the Progressive Era.  The same era which the historian Rayford Whittingham Logan (1897-1981) called the nadir of Afro-American history.  As Washington's influence declined in his last years, W.E.B DuBois, a strong critic of Washington, and the founders at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) sought relief through the court system.  <br />It was this legal strategy of the NAACP in the 20th Century that culminated in the successful Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s, and it is Washington's work-ethic, self-help, self-improvement and particularly, style of accomomdation that have been forgotten or discredited.  This text helps us remember what Washington accomplished, however, more importantly, Professor Harlan's meticulous investigations reveal that the character of Washington is difficult to articulate succintly.<br />Washington's correspondence with the large donors to Tuskegee does not reveal a conspiracy, either large or small, to prepare Tuskegee's students to become wage-workers in the corporate structure.  The typical donor sent his check rather than his advice.,...Washington's efforts at Tuskegee Institute were to train students to become independent small businessmen, farmers, and teachers rather than wage-earners or servants of white employers.  At the same time, it is clear that Washington flattered and cajoled the very rich and never challenged the appropriateness of their status at the peak of the American success pyramid.  <br />Tuskegee became a mecca for not only Africans but West Indians and Asians.  As his writings were translated into many foreign languages, he became the most famous black man in the world, and his famedrew foreigners to him like a magnet.  All manner of men, American missionaries, European colonialists, Afican nationalists, Buddhist reformers, and Japanese modernizers sought to enlist his aid.  On the one hand were whites who sought to aid in introducing plantation agriculture into colonial areas.  On the other hand Africans and Asians hoped to find in Tuskegee industrial education and Washington's philosophy of self-help a source of strength to resist the political and cultural impreialism of the Europeans.  Washington sought to accomodate all of these contradictory propositions.<br />While intrepid research has uncovered new material that lends fresh insight, rather than illuminating Washington for compassion to his motives, the added light only casts more shadows.  Utterly at variance with the Sunday-school morality he publicly professed, there was also a more feral, more power-hungry Washington, inordinately involved in politics, and particularly the poitics of patronage.  Few people, even those affected, such as W.E.B DuBois and Mary White Ovington, knew the extent to which Washington refused to meet our preconceived notions of how a great leader should behave.<br />Inexplicable human fraility, aside, as a guide for the black community, Washington had a concrete program of industrial education and the promotion of small business as the avenue of black advancement \\"up from slavery\\" and into the middle class.  This program may have been anachronistic preparation for the age of mass production, urbanization, and corporate gigantism then coming into being; but it had considerable social realism for a black population which was, until long after Washington's death, predominantly rural and southern.  It gave purpose and dignity to black working-class lives of toil and struggle, and also was well attuned to the growth and changing character of black business in Washington's day.  He championed the emerging black business class as the leaders of black communities, and they in turn, through the National Negro Business League, became the backbone of Washington's following.<br />Washington's followers found hope in his message that fortified them in hopeless situations.  During his time, he was exalted as a type of Moses who would lead his people to the promised land as welcome participants in the mainstream of society.  For many in the US and around the world, his teachings were a type of deliverance from their oppressive circumstances.  Moses had quite a few faults, as all deliverers do, and one of these faults prevented him from entering the promised land of Canaan.   Even with all of his great abilities to accommodate the ruling class majority, his ability to conquer overwhelming obstacles, Booker T. Washington's inability to accomodate the strategies of the NAACP, who were themselves uncompromising, weakened his effectiveness.<br />After reading this remarkable text, I see Booker T. Washington as a man with great accomplishments and failings perhaps as great.  Even with his shortcomings, he was exceptional as he provided his followers hope and lifted their spirit.  Professor Harlan has brought to life a man of enormous complexity, who will never be completely understood or known which makes Booker T. Washington much like the people of which I claim familiarity.<br />PEACE	2004-01-26
US	49059127	R2ZY80Y6XV100T	0756760704	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Power Sweep	_That William Verneli Wood was challengig for a place on the Packers at all was a meaure of his mental strength and perseverance.  It also underscored the determination of Lombardi and his personnel man, Jack Vainisi, to ignore the prejudices then prevalent in most NFL front offices in their search for the most talented players...Wood was a black quarterback in an era when black athletes were seldom allowed the opportunity to play that position_ (p237).  Willie Wood went on to play 12 seasons for the NFL Green Bay Packers and was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1989  In this biography WHEN PRIDE STILL MATTERED, David Maraniss identifies _race relations_ as an issue that revealed Coach Vincent Lombardi's character.<br />I understood very little about the American version of football.  Part of my confusion was that the foot is seldom used, and the object of the competition resembles a ball like no other.  Even so, after reading WPSM, Mr Maraniss has provided me an appreciation for the athletes and the unmatched accomplishments of Coach Lombardi.  Mr Maraniss chronicles football's mythical beginnings at US colleges in the first half of the twentieth century culminating in its zenith in the decade of the 1960s.  The Packers were the team of that turbulent decade and Coach Lombardi became an icon.<br />I was not surprised by this aspect of the biography.  I don't feel I am alone in anticipating a captivating telling of the history and personalities of the NFL.  Where Mr Maraniss exceeds my expectations is in his ability to weave disparate details together as they powerfully manifest at a critical time.  The Packer Sweep is the most prominent example.  So too is the complex and often contradictory character of Coach Lombardi.<br />Mr Maraniss tells us that Vincent Lombardi had a rare quality of leadership that enhances the confidence of those around him.  He was able to lift their spirits and they in turn responded with an effort that exceeded even what they themselvesthought possible.  This is a spiritual gift.<br />Part of this gift found expression when Coach Lombardi was intolerant of racial prejudice.  _The Jim Crow discrimination that black Packers faced when the team played exhibition games in the South enraged Lombardi, and at the end of the 1960 preseason he decided that he would never again allow his team to be split by segregation; from then on, he said, any hotel that would not accomodate all Packers would get no Packers_  He applied the same standard to the establishments in hometown Green Bay, Wisconson.<br />Even before Willie Wood came to Green Bay, Lombardi brought Em Tunnell with him from the NY Giants, and paid for his lodgings, _Lombardi respected and needed Tunnell's experience that much_. (p240).  Tunnell and Wood returned the respect.  Wood said that Lombardi was _perhaps the fairest person I ever met_<br />Coach Lombardi carried this same attitude to the issues of homosexuality and pre-marital pregnancy.  These are typically, emotionally laden issues for Christians.  Whatever reservations Lombardi may have held personally, he let his team know that a gay player deserved respect,  _if I hear one of you people make reference to his manhood you'll be out of here before your ass hits the ground_ (p471).    <br />The coach's daughter and her fiance agreed to get married but they did not want her parents to know that she was pregnant.  Their parish priest helped the young couple with the details of securing a marriage license and with their permission, contacted Vince and Marie Lombardi who were enjoying the success of a Super Bowl victory in Florida (GB 33 Oakland 14).  Lombardi had become a national symbol of old-fashioned discipline and moral rectitude.  Upon hearing the news, _at first, Lombardi was 'extremely angry, of course, but then calmed down and began drafting a game plan._  (p430).  As soon as Vince and Marie returned to Green Bay, they paid a visit to the newlyweds.  Susan remembers, _He stuck out his hand to Paul and said welcome to the family and asked him about his education and his plans_.<br />Mr Maraniss tells us of a complex Coach in this biography of Vincent Lombardi.  There is never any doubt about his shortcomings.  Through his unique determination Lombardi overcame these shortcomings and applied his will to hold a faith in the positive nature of us all.  _Winning is the ony thing_ is the most famous quotation from Coach Lombardi, but winning was not the only thing at which Vincent Lombardi excelled.<br />PEACE	2004-01-05
US	49059127	R1TWITUPE8PEPX	0801855802	212817127	The Johns Hopkins Guide to Diabetes: For Today and Tomorrow (A Johns Hopkins Press Health Book)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Facing Your Fears	_Fear is sometimes a positive force.  In moderation, it can motivate people.  Realistic fear of complications can strengthen your resolve to take the best possible care of yourself...The key to making your fears work for you..is to keep reminding yourself of the positive.  The power to control blood sugars...improves everyday_.  (p217) <br />Two months ago, I was diagnosed with diabetes.   Since then, THE JOHNS HOPKINS GUIDE TO DIABETES has been my handbook and I feel fortunate that Christopher D. Saudek, M.D. and his staff have developed such a valuable tool.  It is extremely easy to use, yet covers completely the topics associated with successful living with diabetes.<br />The Preface states, _This book grew out of our experiences in caring for people with diabetes, particularly at the self-managment program of the Johns Hopkins Diabetes Center.  Much that we discuss in this book is drawn from the material used in our teaching sessions -- and indeed, from the material taught by diabetes educators throughout the country_.<br />I appreciate the self-management program promoted in this text.  _A central theme of this book is that [I] can live a long and healthy life with diabetes, but it is a dangerous disease to ignore_. (p4)  I learned that the diagnosis of diabetes is objective and ammoral, based solely on the level of glucose in the blood.  Knowing that it really does not matter how my blood glucose levels got to be the way they were helped me to accept that something needed to be done to control them.  I was able to adjust to daily life with diabetes, learning that I can in fact cope with it.<br />Understanding Diabetes is the first part of this book and the first part of successfully controlling this disease.  The bulk of this book is in the next part, Controlling Diabetes.  Their approach to goal setting is representative of this book's healthy attitude:<br />_We are talking about redefining the quality of life.  We admit to looking through rose-colored glasses, downplaying the things you can't do or eat that you used to love.  There's no denying that some things ought to be avoided some of life's patterns ought to be adjusted.  But none of this has to impair your quality of life.  You have the choice.  You define quality.  You set the goals._ (p36)<br />If you are interested in controlling your blood glucose levels, this text can show you how.<br />There is a strong spiritual component that comes into play when changing behaviors.  The task of accepting the realities of diabetes; turning from destructive behaviours and turning to life-affirming behaviours is at the crux of repentance.  Moving from denial to acceptance requires an element of faith.  Faith in the diagnosis, faith in the cure, and faith in ourselves that we are able to take up the task day after day with a fresh re-commitment.   My experience with diabetes has strenghtened my own spiritual confidence.  The hard won changes to my glucose levels has given me confidence that I will be able to control other parts of my life.<br />PEACE	2004-01-02
US	49059127	R2J26KEF3I0QWD	0465090826	632135242	The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers and Fathers Are Going Broke	Books	4	42	53	N	N	Coyote Ugly	I found many interesting ideas in THE TWO-INCOME TRAP written by the mother-daughter team of Elizabeth Warren & Amelia Warren Tyagi.  The elder Warren is the Leo Gottlieb Professor of Law at Harvard Law School.  Her daughter worked as a consultant with McKinsey & Co.<br />They present an observation of the financial condition of middle-class families in the USA where both parents are employed outside of the home that many may find counterintuitive.  The TWO-INCOME TRAP, as the term is coined by the authors, is the condition in which _Mothers now work two jobs, at home and at the office.  And yet they have less cash on hand.  Mom's paycheck has been pumped directly into the basic costs off keeping the children in the middle class_ . (p8) Now, these hard working, thrifty families find that they must forfeit decent public schools and preschools, health insurance, and college degrees [for their children] if Mom stays at home.<br />How can this be?  Wasn't Mom's new job supposed to bring in more money?  Provide a safety net in times of trouble?  Put the family in a better neighbourhood? Send the children to safer schools and better institutions of higher learning?  This may have been the well-intentioned objective, however, the authors provide bountiful statitistics that tell a different story.  _After an average two-income family [in 2000] makes its house payments, car payments, insurance payments and child care payments, they have less money left over, even though they have a second, full-time earner in the workplace_ compared with the average middle-class, single-income family of 1973 (p50).<br />The Warrens are both professionals in presumably two-income families who add their own experiences to the data that identify the sources of this surprising situation.  First, they argue strongly against the _Over-Consumption Myth_.  Then, they enumerate more likely culprits, including, deteriorating public schools, a limited supply of homes in _good_ neighbourhoods that encourages a bidding war, and universities that have very little incentive to control their costs.   Surprisingly, one of the culprits identified by the Warrens, even though they are both recipients of its benefits, is the Feminist Movement that encouraged equal employment opportunities for women.<br />Despite the statement that _this book is dedicated to all parents_, there is precious little offered that a parent could use to improve their current situation.  The TWO-INCOME TRAP has been sprung and only government policies can release it according to the Warrens.  To each problem, a long-range policy change is recommended:  Deteriorating Public School systems are solved through a voucher program that allows parents to choose from all the public schools in their area irregardless of postal code.  Shortages of pre-school programs are solved by publicly funded, universal preschool, if and only if, the authors demand, the package includes improvements to public education from kindergarten that continue through high school.  Otherwise,  _day-care subsidies offer no help for families with a stay-at-home mother..because they would create yet another comparative disadvantage for single-income families trrying to compete in the marketplace_.  Finally, the rising cost of a college education can be solved by simply mandating that all state colleges will not be allowed to raise tuitions.<br />There are many who quite rightly bemoan the short-sighted interests of business and politics in our society.  To their credit, the Warrens are presenting a long-term view and presenting far-reaching policy changes.  The authors are suggesting that policy makers accept this opportunity to look beyond the next opinion poll.<br />Regretably,  the solutions offered are not supported with the same level of research as the problems to which they are addressed.   The merits of the solutions appear to be enough for the Warrens to insist that federal and state governments should risk the status quo toimplement.  Naively, the role of campaign financiers is completely ignored.  Absent are examples of communities that have succeeded with school vouchers, for example.  With models of successful programs, politicians and business leaders have a plan to follow rather than simply empty promises to do the right thing.<br />On the positive side, reading about the policies proposed in this book did influence me to contact my elected officials.  Who knows? It might make a difference.<BR>PEACE	2003-12-29
US	49059127	RGWEUA3R4SBQH	0743211146	513433723	Changing the Rules: Adventures of a Wall Street Maverick	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Giving back	_Realising I was underpaid gave me the gumption to move on_.  wrote Ms Muriel Seibert describing some of the frustrations she faced as a gender-pioneer on Wall Street in this fascinating first-person account, CHANGING THE RULES.<br />Ms Siebert begins her journey, _When I left Cleveland with five hundred dollars and a used Studebaker just before Thanksgiving 1954, I had been away from home and family only once...But that one trip the previous summer was a vacation in New York City with two girl friends_.  Nearly fifty years later, she is presenting her views on how to improve 401(k) retirement plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs) directly to top goverment leaders in Washington D.C. and on 13 August 2002 at President Bush's Economic Forum in Waco, Texas, USA.<br />In between, Ms Siebert had an awe-inspiring career.  Briefly, the highlights include first woman to purchase a seat on the NYSE (#2646, 28 Dec 1967) and first female Superintendent of Banking for the State of New York.  as well as running her own brokerage firm to become the first self-made woman Billionaire for a day in February 1999.<br />Even with these lofty accomplishments, Ms Siebert presents a down-to-earth and pragmatic review of her career.  Her dogged determination and unrelenting persistence is highlighted as she recounts the obsticles she overcame.  Being first is not without its share of problems.  As history has shown on innumerable occasions,  an established majority is resistant to accept the usurping minority culture.  Ms Siebert's challenges were primarily experienced through prejudices involving gender and religion (anti-semitism).<br />It is inspiring for me to read about her coping methods.  Whether it is a humourous Hallmark Card or storming a table at a posh restaurant, Ms Seibert is standing up for what she believes.  Yes, she does learn to choose her battles and to have another job before she threatens to quit, however, she makes modifications without jeoparding her integrity or her spiritual commitment.<br />I have learned that the one spiritual value that cannot be imitated is the act of giving.  Ms Siebert writes that _Giving is more than an obligation, it's a privilege_.  She backs up these words with a lifetime of giving: volunteer time at the Henry Street Settlement on Manhattan's Lower East Side early in her career, and a continuous record of providing financial opportunities throughout her business life.  For example, she has established the Siebert Entrepreneurial Philanthropic Plan (SEPP) which contributes to charities 50 percent of the selling concession after clearing costs that she earns on new securites.  In many cases, Ms Seibert explains, _the client choses the charity.  It's a chance to share profits from this business with organizations serving the communities from which we receive new opportunities_.<br />In a time when the Attorney General of her own state is now revealing an unprecedented level of corruption and bankruptcy of ethics in the Mutual Fund Business, it is refreshing to read of a person on Wall Street who, after 50 years in the Business of Financial Services can write, _I sleep well at night, knowing that I've been competitive but honest, tenacious but scrupulous, tough, but fair_.<br />PEACE	2003-10-06
US	49059127	R36TDB2321ZHZU	0684834073	214002400	When Someone You Love is Depressed: How to Help Your Loved One Without Losing Yourself	Books	4	7	11	N	N	work as a team	_Maintain your routine as much as possible._ is one of successful techniques offered by Drs Rosen and Amador in this helpful handbook for people whose loved ones suffer from clinical depression.  Although the book is well-organized and the tools are presented with clarity, some of us may have reservations about following all of  the advice, _The experience of craving sexual release and having a partner who is not interested in sex can be very frustrating.  It is important to acknowledge your sexual needs.  If you cannot have sex with your partner, one solution is autoerotica._<br />It is the authors' intent to _provide you with information about depression, its treatment, and the help that is available_  Moreover, _provide examples of common reltaionship problems when a loved one is depressed._.  I appreciated the simple and straightforward approach offered here.  For example, the stages to healing are easier for me to remember because of the mnemonic TRIP.  Trouble - difficulty with interpersonal interactions in the first and typically, unnoticed stage.  Reaction - an initial response that may be either conscious or unconscious.  Information - gathering data about the problem, reading this book, a move away from denial.  Finally, Problem solving - conscious response to the trouble based upon the data gathered.  This TRIP through depression is described in relationships with partners, children, parents and friends.<br />The guidelines for support are presented with equally unassuming directness.  First, the authors advise, have realistic expectations, and second, offer unqualified support.  Third, is one you already know, maintain your routine as much as possible.  Fourth, share your feelings and fifth, try not to take it personally.  That is the most difficult one for me to remember and apply.  I can get so frustrated at times that I forget about the context of the situation.  Having read this book has helped me to keep its simple advice in mind.  The last two suggestions provide a way out of the problem for everyone involved.  Six, ask for help.  Seven, work as a team.  I don't feel that I am facing my difficulties alone when I know that there is help outside of the relationship and support within the relationship.  Keeping these guidelines in mind has helped me to understand depression as just one more problem that a family or friends face together.  There is a chance that this can make us stronger.<br />A drawback I experienced with this book is that the guidelines are applied systematically to the point of redudancy for each class of relationships.  On the other hand, I was surprised to discover that depression is contagious.  From reading this book, I came to realize that the depression that I experience clearly  can affect those who live with me.  After this discovery, I was motivated more strongly to cure because the someone I love who is depressed can very often be me.<br />From a spiritual perspective, I find that I am most vulnerable to depressive episodes when I lose hope and faith.  I have found tools in WHEN SOMEONE YOU LOVE IS DEPRESSED that have helped me maintain a stronger spiritual commitment, and a way to help those I love.  If you are interested in depression, relationships, psychiatry or sociology, this book may be interesting to you.<br />PEACEgestions provide a way out of the problem for everyone involved.  Six, ask for help.  Seven, work as a team.  I don't feel that I am facing my difficulties alone when I know that there is help outside of the relationship and support within the relationship.  Keeping these guidelines in mind has helped me to understand depression as just one more problem that a family or friends face together.  There is a chance that this can make us stronger.<br />A drawback I experienced with this book is that the guidelines are applied systematically to the point of redudancy for each class of relationships.  On the other hand, I was surprised to discover that depression is contagious.  From reading this book, I came to realize that the depression that I experience clearly  can affect those who live with me.  After this discovery, I was motivated more strongly to cure because the someone I love who is depressed can very often be me.<br />From a spiritual perspective, I find that I am most vulnerable to depressive episodes when I lose hope and faith.  I have found tools in WHEN SOMEONE YOU LOVE IS DEPRESSED that have helped me maintain a stronger spiritual commitment, and a way to help those I love.  If you are interested in depression, relationships, psychiatry or sociology, this book may be interesting to you.<br />PEACE	2003-07-14
US	49059127	RN7CXSU3JV8JS	0898865492	571414368	Dark Shadows Falling	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Whom is my Neighbour	I am extremely fascinated by DARK SHADOWS FALLING.  In this book about mountaineering, Mr Joe Simpson writes of his effort to understand why mountaineering ethical standards seem to have slipped to such low standards on Everest. (p203)  <br />From his perspective, Everest is simply another holiday destination, just more expensive, as befits its size.  Everyone benefits, exept of course the mountain.   The most embarassing and humiliating aspect to me, as a person from an affluent western nation, is the disregard shown for the lives of others by people just like me.  The author admonishes, _People from rich western nations showed what they really cared about - themselves._ (115)  <br />Mr Simpson has written a first-rate apologetic in defense of the faith of mountaineering, and is calling for a return to the _essence of why we went to the mountains_. (28).  The book is organized to support his quest to answer the question of why ethics on the mountain have fallen harder than an avalanche.   A variety of answers are proposed in each chapter and bolstered by case studies.  For example, the culprits offered in chapter 2 include overcrowding, human fallibility, incompetence, and unforgiving natural elements with little margin for error.  On the other hand, Mr Simpson offers counter-examples that showcase the standard of ethics he promotes.  This same chapter details the heroic effort of valiant rescuers.  In this manner of arugument, counter-argument and case studies, media attention, monetary motives and an inhumane level of disregard are investigated.<br />Mr Simpson relates his own experiences as he prepares for a climb of the South Face of Pumori.  Here he finds his ideals put to the test.  Compromise is always a temptation and luck plays an important role in survival.  Always the love and delight of the mountains radiates as he describes their solitude and beauty.  If you are intested in mountaineering, adventure or ethics, this book may be interesting to you.<br />As is usually the case, my interest is in spiritual matters.  Mr Simpson fits the role of a prophet quite smartly.  Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem offered that important distinctive concepts, or philosphies, tend to have similar histories of development.  <br />In this view, the first revelation expressing the fundamental contents of a religion is the greatest, the highest in rank.  Mr Simpson points to the mountaineers that led the way, such as, Heinrich Harrer, first to ascend the fearsome North Face of the Eiger, whose book _The White Spider_ Joe read at the age of fourteen and was immediately hooked on its mesmerizing story.   <br />As these distinctive ideas gain commerce, organizations evolve to husband their growth and assimilation.  Strangely, the needs of the organization begin to overwhelm the message.  The symbol becomes an icon.  This is the stage to which mountaineering has apparently evolved, according to Mr Simpson.  Pragmatism, greed and entertainment, Mr Simpson purports, is fast replacing the ethics of respect for the mountain and fellow climbers that were integral to the experience of the first mountaineers.  <br />The stage that is on the horizon for mountaineering is marked by a break from the traditional authority as the _revolutionary mystics_ move forward with a new paradigm that validates the original concepts.  As mountaineering enters this stage it will be interesting to see who champions the cause of Mr Simpson's clarion call to higher ethics.  The candidates might include the Commercial Guides who are themselves fine mountaineers for the most part,  the Nepalese Government who are torn between dour economics and a love for the natural beauty of their homeland.  With deepest regret, in my opinion, the least likely candidate is someone like me.  In particular, those Mr Simpson identifies as affluent westerners, the ones who reap the most benefit and yet, are instruments of the most harm at Everest.<br />I spend less time than I would like inthe out-of-doors, and I have never, ever _mountaineered_.  Even so, as I read DARK SHADOWS FAILLING, I am reminded of the ease with which my spiritual relationship may fall into disrepair.  At times, the day-to-day activities overwhelm the ideal of my  first, spiritual commitment.  It is then that I find it helpful to return to the precepts that started my journey.  For me, it is a blessing to be able to renew my spiritual commitment each day by setting aside a time for study and reflection.  In this way, I feel that I might be fostering the original ethics.<br />PEACE	2003-05-25
US	49059127	R14RGXTRP562H1	0140243887	918469420	When She Was Bad...: Violent Women and the Myth of Innocence	Books	4	11	19	N	N	consequence & reliability	I have learned a great deal after reading WHEN SHE WAS BAD... Ms. Pearson writes eruditely and directly, with an appropriate sense of humour given the grave subject matter. Each section explores an aspect of violent and lethal behaviour of women, primarily white, middle-class, women of Canada, the author's home, the USA, and Britain. In these chapters, Ms Pearson presents a compelling volume of statistical information, complete with an analyisis of the methods of data gathering where such procedures may influence the results. Beyond these dry statitistics, a human face is given as a specific case study is interwined with the discussion of the general issues which the case exemplifies. Some readers with a penchant for violence may find these cases titilating -- an unfortunate by-product of the subject matter.<BR>Ms Pearson presents many tertiary themes beyond the overriding theses of examining the nature of female agression and exposing a gender-bias in the criminal justice system. These include a palpable frustration with the media for its short-attention span and oversimplification. Also, Ms Pearson calls upon feminist scholarship to reexamine \\"standpoint epistemology\\" (p55), its blind acceptance of a \\"battered wife syndrome\\" (119), and its pre-disposition against \\"battered husband syndrome\\". Her statistics indicate that violence and aggressive behaviour are practised with remarkable equality irregardless of gender. (This should suprise no one who has spent enough time with people; but alas, if that were the case, Ms Pearson's book would not need to have been written). The story of this book, according to Ms Pearson, is \\"the story of consequence and accountablitiy\\" (p248). Ms Pearson concludes by presenting the \\"consequense of our refusal to concede female contributions to violence\\" that she believes are \\"manifold\\" (243). To summarize succinctly: (1) undermine autonomous and responsible behaviour; (2) amputate human emotion and experience from literature; (3) demeans the value of the victims; (4) inhibits recognition and development of new dimensions of power outside the existing structures; and (5) undemines attempts to understand violence, to trace its causes and to quell them. I highly recommend Ms Pearson's WHEN SHE WAS BAD... to anyone interested in social issues or criminology.<BR>My particular interest is in spiritual matters. Ms Pearson's social examination has at its core an examination of the nature of evil and attempts to formulate an appropriate response. Consideration of the victims' experiences presents an opportunity for me to evaluate the place of the LORD, my GOD, in whose presence I am. The road to agnosticism is littered with images of god that accomodate no reality of evil. If my spiritual relationship is to be meaningful in my life, I must accept the disappointment of evil and work through that crisis. I have found that truth can withstand, and that false conceptions crumble. I have often had to rise above what Ms Pearson identifies as an \\"excuse of motive\\", feelings of victimization and instead, to faith on a spiritual connection. Reading this book has inspired me to renew my spiritual commitment. I greatly appreciate the hard work and discipline Ms Pearson has applied to this difficult and important topic.<BR>I return to complete my comments.  It has taken many months to organize my thoughts on this painful topic.  I often hear people say that they cannot believe in a good god when evil people such as those in this book get away with murder.  I cannot explain adequately why the victims, some of them mere children, and their families had to endure the horror and pain caused by these psychopathic individuals.  At the same time, reading this book has helped me to realize the importantance of fighting evil on an personal level.  The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote that the pain inflicted by our enemies is forgotten long before the disappointment experienced when our friends turn away.  Reading Ms Pearson's book has inspired me to ask questions of myself.  What am I doing to diminish pain in my life?  How do I prevent my own agenda from harming others? I have become more sensitive to my acts of indirect aggression.  If I am to be accountable as a human being, I must accept my contribution to evil.  Ms Pearson insists that, \\"it is increasingly urgent that our culture acknowledge violence as a human, rather than gendered, phenomenom.\\"  For me, it is a faith in the LORD, my GOD, in whose presence I am, that provides the strength to face this unattractive side of my humanity.  Admittedly, not everyone will read WHEN SHE WAS BAD for its spiritual implications.  Nonetheless, Ms Pearson has written a thought provoking book that explores the nature of violent aggression as it effects all humans.	2002-12-30
US	49059127	R3Q59RHUVK2Z5R	0060916540	876635042	Touching the Void: The Harrowing First Person Account Of One Man's Miraculous Survival	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a voice, a watch and patterns	&quot;In seconds my whole outlook changed.  The weary frightened hours of night were forgotten...I could do something positive.  I could crawl and climb and keep on doing so until I had escaped from this grave...helplessness had been my worst enemy.  Now I had a plan.  The change in me was astonishing.  I felt invigorated full of energy and optimism.  I could see possible dangers, very real risks that could destroy my hopes, but somehow I knew I could overcome them.&quot; (p113)  TOUCHING THE VOID is an inspiring book to me.  In it Mr. Joe Simpson writes of his tramatic experience that brings him beyond his physical abilities to rely on a spiritual connection.  As he courageously descends a mountain in the Peruvian Andes with a broken leg, his iron will propels him to survive while literally crawling across snow, ice, and rocks.  I am deeply indebted to Mr Simpson that he recorded his thoughts, feelings and the tools that assisted his survival.  I feel that I have learned how to better address challenges in my own life.  Mr Simpson identifies three tools: a &quot;voice&quot;, a watch, and patterns.  He writes that, &quot;the 'voice' and the watch, urged me into motion whenver the heat from the glacier halted me in a drowsy exhausted daze.&quot;  The battered climber would use his watch to pace himself and also to ground himself when he would become distracted by the pain, confusion, and dehydration.  A consistent 'voice' would dispasionately drive him forward saying, &quot;Get moving ... don't lie ... stop dozing ... move!&quot;  But it is Mr Simpson's use of patterns that is most enlightening, &quot;a pattern of movements developed after my initial wobbly hops and I meticulously repeated the pattern.  Each pattern made up one step across the slope and I began to feel detached from everything I thought of nothing but the patterns.&quot; (p68).  I have applied the principle of patterns to my own challenges.  It has been successful for me because it helps me to focusmy energy.  This diary from Mr Simpson has inspired me and provided me with tools that help me to maintain my spiritual connection.	2002-12-09
US	49059127	RKL4X94GUTAFF	0316548189	848381140	Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Freedom to Be Free	LONG WALK TO FREEDOM by Nelson Rolihlahla MANDELA (b. 1918) is one of the most fascinating and inspiring books that I have read.  This book is an autobiography of a recipient of the 1993 Nobel Prize for Peace, presidentent of the African National Congress, and head of the antiapartheid movement in the nation of South Africa.  He was convicted of treason and sentenced to life imprisonment in 1964.  After 27 years at Robbens Island, a maximum security prison, he was released and then, played a leading role in developing a constitution for South Africa.  His greatest triumph occurred in 1994 when South Africa held its first-ever multiracial eletions.<br />LONG WALK TO FREEDOM spans nearly an entire century. Mr Mandela starts with his birth on the eighteenth of July, 1918, at Mvezo, a tiny village on the banks of the Mbashe River in the district of Umtata, the capital of the Transkei, itself eight hundred miles east of Cape Town and five hundred fity miles south of Johannesburg.  He chronicles his political awakening, his role in the ANC, three decades of prison and his triumphant release with the climatic elections of 1994.  With all the history that is covered in this book, it may be a long walk, even so, it is at a very brisk pace.<br />LONG WALK TO FREEDOM is more than a history of South Africa.  It is the story which is the life of a man.  Mr Mandela writes about the friends and foes of his life.  Nothing brings home the price that he paid more than the pain he endured at not being able to be with his family and loved ones.  Mr Mandela wrote, &quot;To be the father of a nation is a great honour, but to be the father of a family is a greater joy.  But it was a joy I had far too little of.&quot;<br />Mr Mandela's resiliency during his prison life is one of the most compelling aspects of this book for me.   He was able to meet the challenge presented to every prioner, particularly for every political prisoner, to survive prison intact; to emerge from prison undiminshed, to conserve and even replenish one's beliefs.   He was able to look back on his three decades at Robbens Island and contemplate the changes that occurred in his country, &quot;I always knew that deep down in every human heart, there is mercy and generosity,..for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.  Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished.&quot;<br />If you are interested in the history of South Africa or in the life of one of its greatest leaders, this book will be interesting to you.	2002-10-06
US	49059127	R9FPQ928JNO9F	0618129022	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (Movie Art Cover)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	evengollum	I am very much greatly impressed with this book by Mr. John Ronald Reuel Tolkien Phd (1892-1973).  THE LORD OF THE RINGS is a book that I consider to be a masterpiece of the twentieth century.  Through it, the fantasy-adventure genre reached an unpreceden ted level.  \\"This book is largely concerned with Hobbits\\" writes Tolkien, in a land of knights, wizards, elves, dwarves, kings and queens.  Professor Tolkien has created an entire world.  Each group has their own language, heritage, and customs which bri n g them to life.  Yet, for all their strangeness, they retain very human qualities and emotions.  It is a story of good vs evil influenced by his friend Mr C. S. Lewis, PhD.  It is the story of young people maturing; of agrarian vs industrial.  It is also a story with strong spiritu al undertones.  This undercurrent of religious images within a spiritual journey interests me greatly.  There are many characters which hold symbolic representations: Sauron/Satan; Galadriel/virgin Mary; Frodo/Messiah; etc.  Further, Professor Tolkien adroitly offers his answers to complex spiritual issues.  First, the Ring may represent wealth and its power over us all.  The most powerful wizards fear its influence, and only the smallest, seemingly most impotent of the fellowship can be trusted with it.  The Ring itself is ammoral.  Yet, the wisest understand the danger it has to corrupt their own power.  Another theme is the transition from the times of the prophets to the age of the disciples.  Yet another is the life of the CHRIST, Jesus lived through the character of Frodo.  Especially, as he ascends Mount Doom in its shadowing of Calvary.  Finally, for me the most impressive theme that Professor Tolkien offers is in the way of good versus evil.  Gollum is a devious and trecherous being with few attr active qualities.  Yet, without him, the quest would have failed.  \\"Even Gollum may have something yet to do\\" is the phrase which succinctly summarises his special role.  This fascinating book has strengthened my spiritual commitment by offering an answer for evil.  This answer has inspired in me a more patient outlook as I am reminded of the wheat and the tares described in the book of Matthew 13:24-30.  Another strength of this book is that one may enjoy it without thinkin g of these weightier matters.  Eve n so, for those who choose, Professor Tolkien offers a parable that highlights the differences between people and how those differences can be a strength in a fellowship.  Through this I have learned a bit more about toler ance.  If you are interested in t he fantasy genre, spiritual matters or enjoyed the movie, this book will interest you. Thank you Chantal. PEACEting book has strengthened my spiritual commitment by offering an answer for evil.  This answer has inspired in me a more patient outlook as I am reminded of the wheat and the tares described in the book of Matthew 13:24-30.  Another strength of this book is that one may enjoy it without thinkin g of these weightier matters.  Eve n so, for those who choose, Professor Tolkien offers a parable that highlights the differences between people and how those differences can be a strength in a fellowship.  Through this I have learned a bit more about toler ance.  If you are interested in t he fantasy genre, spiritual matters or enjoyed the movie, this book will interest you. Thank you Chantal. PEACE	2002-03-10
US	49059127	R29G4KLGQTOLXH	0062506838	53609582	The Enneagram: Understanding Yourself and the Others In Your Life	Books	5	11	16	N	N	spiritualtool	I have strengthened my spiritual connection by reading this book by Helen Palmer Ph.D.  Ms Palmer is a pre-eminent authority on the teachings of the Enneagram, and this book, the ENNEAGRAM: UNDERSTANDING YOURSELF AND OTHERS IN YOUR LIFE, is considered by many as a major work on the subject.  The subject of the book is succinctly summarised by Ms Palmer in the first paragraph, &quot;The Enneagram is an ancient Sufi teaching that describes nine different personality types and their interrelationships.  The teaching can help us to recognize our own type and how to cope with our issues; understand our work associates, lovers, family, and friends; and to appreciate the predisposition that each type has for higher human capacities such as empathy omniscience, and love.  This book can further your own self-understanding, help you work out your relationships with other people, and acquaint you with the higher abilities that are particular to your type of mind&quot;  Ms Palmer describes the process of learning about our personality as a &quot;stepping-stone to a greater consciousness&quot; serving the double purpose of making us &quot;more effective and happier as a person&quot; and also, teaching us &quot;to set the personality aside in order to allow the next phase of consciousness to unfold&quot;.  It is this act of setting the personality aside which has been a tool for me in my spiritual relationship.  I find that by being able to identify the preoccupations of my personality, I am more easily able to detach from their neurotic tendencies.  Further, I am able to attach to my spiritual centre becoming more of the person I will to be.  This practice has encouraged me to dissociate from the preoccupations that underlie my particular personality.  Ms Palmer states, &quot;When we cannot detach attention from a recurring preoccupation, when we lose the ability to observe our own behavior in a dispassionate way, then we are under the control of our own habits and have lost freedom of choice.&quot;  Further, &quot;The unmasking of blind spots, defense mechanisms, and cognitive dissonance within our own character structure is a vital issue for anybody who wishes to lead a psychologically mature life.&quot;  Ms Palmer distinguishes her approach to the Enneagram, &quot;It is, however, of great interest to me that we have become so preoccupied with naming what our attention is attracted to that we have neglected to look at how attention is organized when we perceive the information that interest our type.&quot;  As such, this is not a handbook of personality.  &quot;It is not within the scope of this book to discuss even basic internal practices. Practices are best learned with an experienced teacher, in a supportive setting, rather than out of a book, where even the most precise language is sure to fall short of what is necessary to gain access to an altered state of mind.  This book is about the preoccupations that are characteristic of different types of people, so for our purposes, it is important only to point out that the way in which each type pays attenttion to its preoccupations can be both a burden and a blessing in disguise.&quot;  For centuries, accomplished mystics in the monotheistic religions have maintained that the first step in the spiritual journey is to see one's self. Teresa of vila, St, (1515-1582) in her book &quot;The Way of Perfection&quot; teaches of the great spiritual benefit of self-detachment, both interior and exterior, from all things created.  The process of the enneagram as presented by Ms Palmer has provided me with valuable tools to strengthen my spiritual commitment.  If you are interested in personality, spirituality or the incorporation of the ancient ideas of the enneagram with twentieth century clinical psycho-therapy, this book will interest you.	2002-02-16
US	49059127	R28AVEGEKBNB2U	0385416075	451168716	The Road to Daybreak: A Spiritual Journey	Books	4	13	13	N	N	person of faith	I learned a great deal about Fr Henri Nouwen from this book. THE ROAD TO DAYBREAK: A Spiritual Journey is his intimate diary that records the poignant year at L'Arche that began in the summer of 1985, a precious time of inner renewal and self-discovery.  In his prologue, Fr Nouwen writes, &quot;In the following pages there are words about L'Arche, about prayer, about living with handicapped people, about art, about city life, about filmmaking, about AIDS, about conflicts in the church, about Paris, London, San Francisco and Los Angeles, about Canada and a future there, and about many other small and great people and events.  What binds them together in their wide variety is the spiritual struggle to say 'yes' to Jesus' invitation 'Come and follow me.'&quot;  It is this description of his spiritual journey and development over the year that is most intriguing to me.  From reading these pages, I feel as though I have spoken to a friend whom I know quite well.  Well enough to know his strengths in patience and tolerance, yet, also well enough to become annoyed at his foibles,  Particularly, Fr Nouwen's incessant need for validation from his friends.  Still, it is most striking to me the complete commitment that he has to serving his LORD.  &quot;Being in the world without being of it involves hard work.&quot; reads his entry for 10 May, &quot;It requires a clear vision of what I want to do and how to do it.  It requires a discipline of the eyes, the mind, and the heart.  It requires a deep desire, as well as a strong commitment to live without interruptions in the name of Jesus.&quot;  I learned of the discipline required by a desire to seek our unity in and through Jesus, the Christ.  As Fr Nouwen described his work, I became aware that I am severely handicapped, myself.  Although, I am blessed to be physically and mentally capable, I must confess I am spiritually handicapped.  I can barely communicate in my spiritual relationship.  I am challenged to maintain a consistent spiritual commitment, and I am completely dependent on the grace and mercy of the LORD, my GOD, in whose presence, I am.  This insight which I received from reading this book has changed the way I view my own spiritual life and has strengthened that relationship.  If you are interested in the life of Fr Henri Nouwen, or in a spiritual relationship as lived by someone, this book will be interesting to you.  Although Fr Nouwen is a Catholic Priest, I think that people of all faiths and beliefs who are interested in a spiritual quest will gain from its reading.  PEACE	2002-01-27
US	49059127	R1MR1YO0HVV2JR	0486416062	955969748	Non-Violent Resistance (Satyagraha)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	purna swaraj	I learned a great deal from Mahatma Gandhiji (1869-1948) by reading NON-VIOLENT RESISTANCE.  This book is a collection of articles written at the hand of Gandhiji for the magazines &quot;Young India&quot; and &quot;Harijan&quot;.  In addition, there are some interviews.  The term Satyagraha was authored by Gandhiji to describe the process of non-violent resistance.  Satyagraha has as its goal reform.  It requires a great deal of discipline on the part of the participants.  It also requires an opponent that is capable of reform.  I have been applying what I have learned from this book in an attempt to reform myself.  If you are interested in the life of Mahatma Gandhiji, or in the process of non-violent resistance, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-12-16
US	49059127	R28SV7YB1I02PQ	0452010071	913205271	Kabbalah (Meridian)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	encyclopedic	I have learned a great deal from KABALLAH.  It is a cross-section of the research of Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem. Each topic is given a concise explanation, including personalities and bibliographic references.  When I first read this book, I found the explanations a bit terse.  The density of information was overwhelming.  Now, that I am more familiar with the work of Professor Scholem, I find this text to be an excellent review.  If you are interested in the research of Professor Scholem or in the Kabbalah's historical development, this will be interesting to you.	2001-12-06
US	49059127	R3U6XE59SAO2UA	0805210342	667539304	Zohar: The Book of Splendor: Basic Readings from the Kabbalah	Books	5	31	37	N	N	prayer book	I enjoy this small book by Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem.  &quot;Zohar : The Book of Splendor : Basic Readings from the Kabbalah&quot; is a collection of passages from the Zohar.  The Zohar is a five volume set which is the central work in the literature of the Kabbalah.  It was written in the late 13th Century CE in Spain.  As such, this little book is much too small to be considered as anything but snippets and favourite passages.  At the same time, I find solace in the meditations.  Like many prayer books, I find it helps to centre myself spiritually as I conform my conscious mind to my faith.  If you are interested in a book of meditations to strengthen a prayer life, this book may be interesting to you.	2001-11-19
US	49059127	R2Z9PUV1UM15D2	0805210512	460789985	On the Kabbalah and its Symbolism (Mysticism & Kabbalah)	Books	5	45	50	N	N	kabbalah	I learned a great deal from Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem (1897-1982) through his text, &quot;On the Kabbalah and Its Symbolism&quot;.  Dr Bernard McGinn, Divinity School, University of Chicago, wrote in the introduction, &quot;I believe that all students of mysticism should read Scholem, not only for his profound insights into the Jewish mystical tradition, but also to deepen their understanding of the dynamics of other mysticisms -- Christian, Islamic, and even those further afield.&quot;  Professor Scholem presents an historical perspective with the full knowledge that there are other approaches.  &quot;From an historical point of view&quot;, he writes, &quot;the sum of religious phenomena known as mysticism consists in the attempts of mystics to communicate their experiences to others.&quot;  Within this context, this text explores broad sweeping topics in each chapter -- topics that deservedly have receieved attention by intelligent scholars for centuries.  In the first chapter, &quot;Religious Authority and Mysticism&quot; Herr Doktor Scholem presents a thesis fundamental to his research, &quot;there is no mysticism as such, but only the mysticism of particular religious systems, Christian, Islamic and Jewish mysticism, and so on&quot;.  The mystic working within a religious system is, according to Scholem, at the same time both conservative and revolutionary.  &quot;Conservative&quot; because the mystic tries to preserve the sources of traditional authority, and &quot;revolutionary&quot; because the mystic also may subsititue his own opinion for that prescribed by authority.  In the second chapter, titled, &quot;The Meaning of the TORAH in Jewish Mysticism&quot;, Scholem explains the dynamic relationship between the TORAH and the mystic.  Scholem presents three fundamental principles on which the Kabbaslistic conceptions of the nature of the TORAH are based: (1) YWVH; (2) TORAH as oganism; (3) Infinite meaning of the divine word.  As an example of the third, inaddition to the the concept of written and oral TORAHs, the author of the &quot;ZOHAR&quot; speculates four levels of meaning: (1) literal (2) hermeneutic (3) allegorical and (4) mystical.  The history of Judaism, Scholem explains in the third chapter, is a tension between the purity of the reality of GOD.  The dynamic involved is clearly presented in the realization that the price of GOD's purity is the loss of her living reality.  Scholem offers that the Book Bahir, a cornerstone of 12th century Kabbalistic thought, introduces myth into Judaism.  Remarkably, it contends evil as an attribute of GOD.  In a similar vein, the commentary on the Sefer Yetzirah by Judah ben Barzilai introduced speculative thinking to Jewish theosophy.  The fourth chapter, &quot;Tradition and New Creation in the Ritual of the Kabbalists&quot; presents a solution to a problem faced by each new generation.  Namely, how are the traditions passed on in a vital and meaningful medium.  The Mishnal codified Jewish religious law and ritual for an agrarian community had survived for centuries.  As the agrarian society diminished, the TORAH became obsolete and the natural rituals became less meaningful, historical rituals.  The Spanish Kabbalists found a new ritual to express the old traditions.  Scholem writes, &quot;The rejuvenation of religion repeatedly finds its expression in a return to ancient images and symbols, even when these are 'spiritualized' and transformed into speculative constructions.&quot;  R. Yanassan Gershom has already succinctly summarised the fifth chapter which deals with the concept of the Golem.  I will take the liberty to direct you to his comments.  If you are interested in historical issues of the Kabbalah, this is essential reading for you.	2001-09-10
US	49059127	RVJY6Z97HEE6M	0300046995	850501086	Kabbalah: New Perspectives	Books	5	13	15	N	N	gleanings	I have learned from reading KABBALAH, NEW PERSPECTIVES by Moshe Idel, professor of Jewish thought at Hebrew University.  In this book, Professor Idel surveys the state of Kabbalah Research in the wake of Herr Professor Gershom Scholem's death, the strength of whose research casts a ubiquitous shadow.  Further, Professor Idel challenges scholars of mysticism to consider the questions uncovered by the solutions currently offered.  Without diminishing, in any way, the importance of the work accomplished by Herr Professor Scholem, Professor Idel calls for an examination of some of his basic assumptions.  First, very early in this text, he calls for us to &quot;distinguish between the authentic material and the opinions of scholars on the content of this material.&quot; (p17).  In the process of following his own advice, he observes that Scholem's &quot;Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism&quot; is undergirded with the implicit assumption that a given cultrual religious phenomenon is closely intertwined with or dependent upon its immediate historical predecessors&quot; (p264).  He challenges the reader to consider, not only an historical approach, but also, phemonology as a descriptor of the evolution of religious movements.  In recognising the limits of historical research, the two professors are in complete agreement.  In his text, &quot;On the Kabbalah and Its Symbolism&quot; Herr Professor Scholem writes, &quot;From a historian's point of view, the sum of religious phenomena known as mysticism consists in the attempts of mystics to communicate their 'ways,' there illuminations, their experience, to others.&quot;  Professor Idel acknowledges this in his discussion of the varieties of &quot;devekut&quot; in Jewish mysticism, &quot;The chance of success in reconstructing the nature of a mystical experience from written texts is close to nil.&quot; (p36).   In his chapter on Kabbalistic Hermeneutics, he brings a fresh perspective on the status of symbol by distinguishing between a &quot;theosophical&quot; and a &quot;linguistic&quot; approaches, represented by the &quot;Zohar&quot; and R. Abraham Abulafia, respectively.  In the former, the symbol is central, and in the latter it matters very little, if at all.  Professor Idel offers that, &quot;A more adequate formulation would insist that the two axes of Kabbalah are symbolism, which is related to nonunitive experiences, on the one hand, and unitive experiences, which coalesce with nonsymbolic language, on the other.&quot; (p203)  From this, I received clarity in my own spiritual commitment.  I found that I fall more into the category of &quot;ecstatic&quot; than &quot;theosophic&quot;.  I feel affirmed in my striving to attain an experience of the Divine, and my reservations that symbols cannot help achieve a better understanding of divine matters.  From this text, I learned a great deal about the issues still to be explored in this tradition which spans the centuries.  I also learned a little about my own spiritual commitment.	2001-08-19
US	49059127	R2X5XAADFQRYXA	0300087012	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave Written By Himself	Books	5	0	2	N	N	How pious priests whip Jack and Nell	This is a horrific piece of history.  Mr Frederick Douglass (1818-95) was the foremost African-American Ablitionist of the Antebellum period. Born a slave-for-life, he nonetheless, devised ingenious methods of learning to read.  &quot;From that moment, I understood the pathway from slavery to freedom&quot;  Mrs Auld had begun teaching him to read until Mr Auld forcefully explained the danger of teaching Douglass.  Douglass continued unabated in his single-minded desire, unassisted.  &quot;Though conscious of the difficulty of learning without a teacher, I set out with high hope, and a fixed purpose, at whatever cost of trouble, to learn how to read.&quot;  Once his mind was freed, he set himself to free his physical body, escaping to Massachusetts where he became a dominant force in the abolitionists' crusade.  This narrative was very popular.  Within three years of its release in 1845, it had sold 11,000 copies, gone through nine English editions and had been translated into both French and Dutch.  Not only was it a popular success, but critical response was overwhelmingly enthuastic, as well.  Douglass went on to launch a journalistic career that would occupy the rest of his life.  This is truly a great story about a great man who influenced the course of history.  Furthermore, his words have caused me to reëxamine my own behaviours and dispositions.  This is the part of this book which I find so horrific.  Some may not find it inconsistent and politically unjustifiable that this institutionalised genocide was accepted practice in the &quot;land of free, the home of the brave.&quot;  That the same men who signed a &quot;Declaration of Independence&quot; purgered themselves because they had no serious intention that &quot;all men were created equal&quot; or &quot;granted inalienable rights&quot; when many were slaveholders of the type and variety of those described in this narrative.  How could it happen that otherwise law-abiding men and women (yes, Douglass tells us that the &quot;fairer&quot; sex was handy with whip and rod) murder, rape, and mutilate with impunity?  Further that these same people considered themselves morally righteous, god-fearing and faithful to the teachings of the Christ, Jesus.  Even more inconceivable is that their ministers were, not only supportive of this heinous crime, but also were participants as they themselves were slaveholders.  These were not obscure local ministers, either, but organizations whose influence was national, both South and North.  After describing these experiences, I cannot find fault in what Mr Douglass writes, &quot;I therefore hate the corrupt, slaveholding, women-whipping, cradle-plundering, partial and hypocritical Christianity of this land.  Indeed, I can see no reason, but the most deceitful one, for calling the religious of this land Christianity.  I look upon it as the climax of all misnomers, the boldest of all frauds, and the grossest of all libels.&quot;  Finally, what is most amazing to me in all of this is that Mr Douglass still holds to his faith, &quot;I love the pure, peaceable, and impartial Christianity of Christ.&quot; he proclaims.  If Mr Douglass can live through slavery and still hold to his spiritual convictions, I am strengthed in my own spiritual relationship.  His example has inspired me, and I hope that reading his book will inspire you.  PEACEus that the &quot;fairer&quot; sex was handy with whip and rod) murder, rape, and mutilate with impunity?  Further that these same people considered themselves morally righteous, god-fearing and faithful to the teachings of the Christ, Jesus.  Even more inconceivable is that their ministers were, not only supportive of this heinous crime, but also were participants as they themselves were slaveholders.  These were not obscure local ministers, either, but organizations whose influence was national, both South and North.   After describing these experiences, I cannot find fault in what Mr Douglass writes, &quot;I therefore hate the corrupt, slaveholding, women-whipping, cradle-plundering, partial and hypocritical Christianity of this land.  Indeed, I can see no reason, but the most deceitful one, for calling the religious of this land Christianity.  I look upon it as the climax of all misnomers, the boldest of all frauds, and the grossest of all libels.&quot;  Finally, what is most amazing to me in all of this is that Mr Douglass still holds to his faith, &quot;I love the pure, peaceable, and impartial Christianity of Christ.&quot; he proclaims.    If Mr Douglass can live through slavery and still hold to his spiritual convictions, I am strengthed in my own spiritual relationship.  His example has inspired me, and I hope that reading his book will inspire you.  PEACE	2001-07-17
US	49059127	R510WMZ544B7U	0192835629	165741225	Up from Slavery (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	give up the hate, forgive each other	I feel that I have met an extraordinary man of history after reading &quot;Up From Slavery&quot;.  This book is an autobiography by Professor Booker T Washington (1856-1915).  He was born into the deplorable condition of genocide which bears the euphemism of &quot;slavery&quot;.  He found a way through iron will and determinism to &quot;do a thing that the world wants done&quot; enabling to &quot;make a living for himself and others&quot; through embracing the joy and love of labor.  His greatest accomplishment was the founding and building of the Tuskegee Institute of Normal and Industrial Institute from a chicken shack to a school with assets of over $500,000 free from mortgage.  He rose to national and international attention as the most influential African-American of his time with his famous speech calling people to &quot;cast down your bucket where you are.&quot;  People who accomplish great things are controversial, and Professor Washington was no different.  Dr W E B Du Bois in &quot;The Souls of Black Folk&quot; wrote of Professor Washington, &quot;His doctrine has tended to make the whites, North and South, shift the burden of the Negro problem to the Negro's shoulders and stand aside as critical and rather pessimistic spectators; when in fact the burden belongs to the nation, and the hands of none of us are clean if we bend not our energies to righting these great wrongs.&quot;  During the Civil Rights struggles of the 1960's Washington's philosophy was called into question by none other than the great Reverend Dr Martin Luther King Jr, who wrote in his book &quot;Why We Can't Wait&quot;, &quot;Be content [Washington] said in effect, with doing well what the times permit you to do at all.  However, this path, they soon felt, had too little freedom in its present and too little promise in its future.&quot;  These are the issues that continue to develop, and will, I suspect, for some time to come.  I was most impressed by the capacity for Professor Washington to forgive.  Of all his impressive accomplishments, this is one that spoke to me undeniably of his courage and strength.  He forgives the man who sired him, a man worthy of the title &quot;father&quot; only in the strict biological sense.  Professor Washington writes, &quot;Whoever he was, I never heard of his taking the least interest in me or providing in any way for my rearing.  But I do not find especial fault with him.  He was simply another unfortunate victim of the institution which the Nation unhappily had engrafted upon it at that time.&quot;  Some contend that his attitudes were politically motivated, yet, I do not see what Professor Washington would stand to gain by forgiving the man who &quot;fathered&quot; him.  With unblemished sincerity, he forgave his slave masters, (&quot;man-stealers&quot;, as Frederick Douglass called them).  Professor Washington wrote, &quot;I pity from the bottom of my heart any nation or body of people that is so unfortunate as to get entangled in the net of slavery.  I have long since ceased to cherish any spirit of bitterness against the southern white people on account of the enslavement of my race.&quot;  He genuinely felt that he was far better off than his masters because, &quot;the slave system on our place, in a large measure, took the spirit of self reliance and self-help out of the white people.&quot;  Why would he believe this?  The epitome of his life's goal was to find and do something which was valued.  The very thing his masters could not do. &quot;My old master had many boys and girls, but not one, so far as I know, ever mastered a single trade or special line of productive industry.&quot;  Some may, after reading this book, still feel that Professor Washington's attitudes were politically motivated.  I cannot accept that idea.  I have never known any one nor do I believe it is possible to feign this level of forgiveness.  It is my opinion that Professor Booker T Washington is a reflection of a love which isdivine.  This is one of the reasons I am so impressed with this man, and this book.	2001-07-06
US	49059127	R7MO05SA9LIZG	0385472021	579920713	The Birth of the Messiah (Anchor Bible Reference Library)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	decision time	My spiritual relationship has been strengthened as a result of reading this commentary by Raymond Edward Brown S. S.  &quot;The Birth of the Messiah&quot; is an exhaustive analysis of the Infancy Narratives (IN) presented in the Christian Gospels of Matthew and Luke.  The self-proclaimed task of this commentary is to &quot;recover the value of the infancy stories as theology.&quot;  Professor Brown contends that the IN were &quot;written to make Jesus' origins intelligible against the background of the fulfillment of OT [Hebraic Scriptural] expectations&quot;.  In this light, the Gospel of Matthew was written to make the history of Israel a more intimate preparation by having Jesus relive that history.  The remote preparation of the ministry of Jesus was the whole of GOD's activity in Israel as told by the Law of Moses and the Prophets.    The Gospel of Luke IN also &quot;stress the intrinsic connection of that birth with what has precede in Israel.&quot;  In contrast to Matthew, Lucan theology presents a smoother transition from OT to the Gospel message.  Even so, &quot;for both evangelists the IN is the place where the OT [i.e. Hebraic Scriptures] and the Gospel most directly meet.&quot;  The idea of a &quot;backwards developing christology&quot; was introduced to me in this book.  &quot;In a pre-Gospel period, as attested by Paul and the sermons in Acts, the resurrection was the chief moment associated with the divine proclamation of the identity of Jesus.&quot;  The IN are presented here as a progressive step in the understanding of the origin of Jesus.  One of the recurrent themes which Professor Brown enunciates is that a reaction to the IN is a reflection of a reaction to the Gospel message.  &quot;The gospel is the good news, but that gospel must have a passion and rejection as well as success.&quot;  Some will accept the Gospel message and rejoice while others will reject the Gospel and those who proclaim it.  A second theme which influences me is that thetrue family of Jesus are those who hear the word of GOD and do it (Mark 3:20-21).  Professor Brown demonstrates that Luke presents Mary as one who qualifies and becomes the first disciple.  If you are interested in the Gospel message of the Infancy Narratives, this book will interest you.  Regardless of your personal position on the Christian Gospels, this is a valuable tool for understanding what they are about, and therefore, can be important in arriving at an informed decision.	2001-07-01
US	49059127	R10EZU9DFZXEZH	0451527534	126061202	Why We Can't Wait (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Non-Violent Direct Action	I am greatly impressed with the words that Reverend Dr Martin Luther King Jr (1929-68) wrote in this report of the civil rights movement during the campaign of 1963.  &quot;Why We Can't Wait&quot; is a handbook for Non-Violent Direct Action (NVDA).  Dr King, as the president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) exemplifies the power of organised religion when it addresses social ills.  Most of religion is too other-worldly to be any earthly good.  Dr King laments his disappointment at hearing ministers say, &quot;those are social issues with which the gospel has no real concern.&quot;  Fortunately, for all of us, Dr King led his ministry in a different direction.  This book is an outline for understanding the practice of NVDA.  Dr King begins by explaining that the Negro Revolution of 1963 was sparked by factors which included (a) slow pace of school desegregation (b) disappointment with US political system (c) the success of minorities around the globe to attain political power and (d) 100 years had passed since the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation without any profound affect.  Dr King then reports on the entire campaign of desegregation as it was staged in one of the most segregated cities of the US.  The second and more important theme, from my point of view, of this book is why this revolution took place in cities such as Birmingham, Alabama within the context of NVDA.  Dr King credits the power of the church to focus the energy of a frustrated, angry and resentful people as the reason for the success of NVDA.  Dr King reports that &quot;every volunteer was required to sign a commitment card that read&quot; as its first of 10 commandments : &quot;MEDITATE daily on the teachings and life of Jesus.&quot;  In addition to the Rev Dr Martin Luther King Jr, it was ministers who were leading the people.  Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth and the leaders of the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights; Reverend James Lawson, expelled from Vanderbilt University for civi-rights work; Reverend James Bevel, an experienced leader of many campaigns; Reverend Bernard Lee, leader of the student movement at Alabama State College; Reveren Andrew Young, and many more religious leaders who rolled up their sleeves and joined the fight.  Regretably, not all leaders of organised religion joined in, and &quot;Letter From Birmingham Jail&quot; is Dr King's response. If you are interested in NVDA and the positive role which organised religion can play in social change, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-06-22
US	49059127	R3OJWNU9R4K9NY	0805210423	792138742	Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism	Books	5	10	12	N	N	uplifting sparks	I learned a great deal from this text, and further my spiritual understanding has been enhanced by Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem's (1897-1982) book, &quot;MAJOR TRENDS IN JEWISH MYSTICISM&quot;.  This text is of a type which transcends criticism.  In the forward, professor Robert Alter describes this pioneering work as &quot;an enduring contribution to the study of religion&quot; which &quot;stands out as one of those rare intellectual achievements of the middle decades&quot; of the twentieth century.  A great deal of territory is covered here.  The historical and theosophic development of the Qabbalah with respect to its role in Judaism begins before the building of the second temple (roughly 538 BCE) and continues into the 19th century after the founding  of the Hasidic movement by Israel Baal Shem (d 1760).  In a stimulating and engaging presentation, Herr Doktor Scholem explains the major trends which span more than 2 millenia.  They include Merkabah Mysticism &amp; the roots of Jewish Gnosticism (100BCE - 1100CE), Mediaeval German Hasidism (1150-1250CE), Prophetic Kabbalism (1200-1300), the development and influence of the Book of Zohar (1276-1400), Lurianic Mysticism (1391-1650), the Sabbatian Heresy of the 17th century and finally, 19th century Hasidism.  The breadth of this development is awe inspiring. Just as important for me are the details.  I was excited when I learned of the Lurianic Kabbalah's Theory of Tikkun which Herr Doktor Scholem describes as &quot;the greatest victory which anthropomorphic thought has ever won in the history of Jewish mysticism&quot;.  The doctrine of Tsimtsum provided me with a clear alternative to pantheism for the first time.  This doctrine separated theism from pantheism because it provides an answer for the existence of something other than GOD.  Isaac Luria must have been an astounding individual.  Thomas Aquinas briefly defines mysticism as &quot;cognitio dei experimentalis&quot;, as the knowledge of GOD through experience. Which brings me to the most important idea I learned from this text, namely, that there is a place for the irrational in the worship of the LORD, my GOD, in whose presence I am.  If you are interested in Mysticism of any type, creed or practice, this text is indispensible for you.	2001-06-14
US	49059127	R3MY453AMN6KMO	0814615872	795265270	A Coming Christ in Advent	Books	5	15	15	N	N	infancy gospels	I found spiritual insight in this slim volume by Fr. Raymond E Brown, S.S.  &quot;A COMING CHRIST in ADVENT&quot; is a collection of essays on the gospel narratives preparing for the birth of Jesus.  As such, it is a commentary of the first chapters of Matthew and Luke.  The subjects include the genealogy of the CHRIST, Jesus, as presented in Matthew, the three Annunciations as well as the Benedictus.  The subject is given the characteristic thoroughness Fr Brown applies to his larger works.  Two themes which I found intriguing are first, that the Lucan Infacy Narratives contain figures from the Hebrew Scriptures (Zechariah and Elizabeth) and Gospel figures (John, the Baptist) encountering each other in order to bridge the two periods of GOD's salvific action.  The second theme which was presented in a new light for me is the role of Mary as a disciple of the CHRIST.  Fr Brown writes, &quot;In all of this Luke has anticipated a christological terminology that is appropriate to Jesus' ministry and beyond.&quot;  Jesus defines 'family' in terms of accepting his gospel about the LORD (Mark 3:35; Luke 8:21).  Mary's answer in the Annunciation is &quot;Let it be done to me according to your word.&quot;  Again, from Fr Brown, &quot;The evangelist is descrbing not only one who is consenting to be the physical mother of Jesus but also and very importantly one who meets Jesus' criterion for his family of disciples -- indeed the first one.&quot;  If you are interested in understanding the Gospel message in the Infancy Narratives, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-05-13
US	49059127	R3TTS423H23XJW	0060663146	944129609	A Letter of Consolation	Books	4	16	16	N	N	new life	I received valuable spiritual insight from Fr Henri J. M. Nouwen's (1932-96) &quot;Letter of Consolation&quot;.  There have been several deaths in my family this year.  Thanks to this book by Fr Nouwen, Phd, I had something to offer my relatives which might be a source of spiritual comfort.  This book was written in and around the week between Palm and Easter Sundays.  Fr Nouwen writes to his father as he celebrates this holiday while reflecting on the recent death of his mother.  A thought from this book which strengthened my spiritual understanding is the idea of a new life offered to us from death.  Fr Nouwen writes that &quot;death changed our experience of time&quot; and that a &quot;'normal' experience became for us a new experience.&quot;  &quot;The first Christmas without mother, the first New Year without mother...the first Easter without mother.&quot;  Throughout, Fr Nouwen carries the themes that &quot;Love is stronger than death&quot; and &quot;Death is absurd&quot;.  These would be empty phrases if not that Fr Nouwen is writing from the painful experience of his own mother's death.  I did learn more about facing death, particularly my own.  I also learned about the role of my spiritual relationship in befriending death as a way of living more fully.  If you or someone close to you is wrestling with grief from the loss of a loved one, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-05-06
US	49059127	RNJJ2FKG5N9JF	0883684969	289635553	God Of All Comfort	Books	5	9	11	N	N	comfort in faith	This small book by Hannah Whithall Smith is a favourite of mine. THE GOD OF ALL COMFORT is about how to find comfort in a Christian life. Even though it is written for Christians, I think that people of all faiths might gain from reading this book. The premise of this book is that comfort in our spiritual relationship derives from faith. This faith is a decision. The decision is to decide what we will have faith in: either circumstances or the words in the Bible. If you are interested in peace in your spiritual relationship, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-04-11
US	49059127	R3UNRJLIZ77EZ6	081460997X	192203238	An Adult Christ at Christmas: Essays on the Three Biblical Christmas Stories - Matthew 2 and Luke 2	Books	5	11	12	N	N	good news	I have learned a great deal from &quot;an ADULT CHRIST at CHRISTMAS&quot;.  Father Raymond Edward Brown, PhD, presents, yet another, work of brilliance.  As with all of Father Brown's work, the scholarship is objective and thorough.  He takes great pains to provide a balanced apologetic even with extremely controversial topics within his own organisation, by way of example, immaculate conception and mariology.  The question posed here is, why were the infant narratives of Luke and Matthew deemed appropriate for to be included in the good news (greek: &quot;gospels&quot;) which bear their names.  The answer offered is that these narratives provide a salvific message consistent with the gospel message, in general, and the passion narratives, specifically.  The writers of Matthew and Luke understood the christological significance of these early stories because, for them, the conception and birth consititute the moment when GOD revealed who the CHRIST was.  That is the first important idea I learned from this short book.  The second idea which was clarified for me was that the proclamation of a gospel message is met with two responses in the cannonised material.  Some accept it, believe and dedicate their lives to its growth and development.  Others reject it, despise it and dedicate their lives to its destruction.  Each of these are equally valid individual decisions with their own respective conseqences.  As those who are familiar with my comments elsewhere already know, I am in the former category of those who believe.  For this reason, I have found great spiritual insight in this work by Father Brown.  If you are interested in the gospel message of the first century christians, this book will be interesting to you	2001-03-18
US	49059127	R3VHFV1ECLDNC5	0805210814	295155736	On the Mystical Shape of the Godhead: Basic Concepts in the Kabbalah (Mysticism & Kabbalah)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	basic spirituality	I enjoy the material in this book by Herr Doktor Gershom Scholem (1897-1982).  Despite the title, I did not find the concepts introduced in &quot;On the Mystical Shape of the Godhead&quot; at all basic.  The concepts presented include (i) imageless worship of GOD, (ii) good and evil, (iii) the role of the mystic in a religious community, (iv) the personification and hypostasis of GOD's presence in the world, and (v) the uniqueness of our individual spirit (principium individuantis).  These are concepts which Herr Doktor Scholem introduced in his landmark book, &quot;Origins of the Kabbalah&quot;. Here they are recapitualated in greater detail.  The basic conceptual and methodological problem presented in this book is summarised in the forward by Mr Joseph Dan, &quot;an essentially Jungian approach and Kabbalistic approach to the subjects presented by Scholem in this book may converge and present a united front against the historical analysis written by the scholar&quot;  Each chapter contributed to my spiritual relationship.  My favourite is the second chapter, &quot;Good and Evil in the Kabbalah&quot;. One of the ideas I found interesting in this chapter was the idea that good and evil both originate in GOD's creation.  &quot;Evil, however one conceives of it, is thus regarded as an entity deliberately created by GOD.&quot; (p57).    The second idea with which I found resonance was that, as someone interested in maintaining a spiritual commitment, my most important task is to cultivate, maintain and strengthen my contact with spiritual reality. (p69)  For me, this is a remarkable book which helps me to grow spiritually.  If you are interested in the historical development of &quot;basic&quot; concepts in the Kabbalah, or in contributing to your spiritual development, this book will be interesting to you.	2001-03-05
US	49059127	R2PRMIW8Y4LVH0	0060611561	489904889	Telling the Truth: The Gospel as Tragedy, Comedy, and Fairy Tale	Books	2	16	45	N	N	Hickey's pipedreams	Reverend Frederick Buechner (b1926) has been blessed with a successful career.  In 1947, he earned a Bachelar of Arts from Princeton; in 1950, he wrote his first successful book &quot;A long day's dying&quot;; in 1956, he and Ms Judith Frederick Merke, a long time friend of the family, were wed; in 1958, he earned a Bachelar of Divinty from Union Theological Seminary where he was educated by such theological luminaries as Mrrs Paul Tillich and Rheinhold Niebuhr.  Finally, in 1969, after authoring dozens of books, he culled from his Lyman Beecher Lectures at Yale this book, &quot;Telling the Truth&quot;.  &quot;Telling the Truth&quot; is not so much a book about the Gospel as it is a book on how to preach the Gospel.  Which is what preachers came to the Lectures at Yale hoping to learn.  Rev Buechner has an engagingly humourous style, and this makes the book an enjoyable read.  He calls us to preach the Gospel by telling the truth.  Which he describes as &quot;telling the truth; telling the truth in love; telling it with concern for the truth; and telling it with concern for the listener.&quot;  The Gospel, Rev Buechner posits, is composed of three types of truths, tragic, comic and fairy tale.  By tragic, he means, &quot;the world where GOD is absent is dark and empty; by comic, &quot;it is in the depths of GOD's absence that GOD makes himself present&quot; and by fairy tale, he asserts that the &quot;tale that is too good not to be true because to dismiss it as untrue is to dismiss along with it that catch of the breath, that beat and lifting of the heart near to or even accompanied by tears, which I believe is the deepest intuition of truth that we have.&quot;  Whether this is TRUTH or not, I don't know, even so, the book is entertaining.  The problem I have is that Rev. Buechner appears to contradict himself from one lecture to another, and even within the same lecture.  For example, he writes derisively that &quot;as Christians in general we are particularly given to sentimentalizing our faith.&quot;  Yet in his characterizations of Pontius Pilate as a 3-pack a day smoker, in a loveless marriage who is apathetic as a bureaucrat, isn't Rev. Buechner, himself, looking &quot;only at the emotion in it and at the emotion it stirs in us rather than at the reality of it.&quot;  Of the Prodigal Son, he writes, &quot;he is a caricature of all that is joyless and petty and self-serving about all of us.  The joke of it is that of course his father loves him even so, and has always loved him and will always love him, only the elder brother never noticed it because it was never love he was bucking for but only his due.&quot;  Does this mean that the lecture about the Gospel as Tragedy which focuses on drama which speaks of the absence of GOD, is &quot;joyless and petty and self-serving&quot;?  In summary, I think this is an entertaining book which doesn't strike a spiritual resonance with me.  Others may find it spiritually enhancing, and for them I am genuinely glad that Rev. Buechner wrote this book.	2001-02-03
US	49059127	R36OH0LTZGWU5C	0691020477	841032571	Origins of the Kabbalah (Princeton Paperbacks)	Books	5	54	58	N	N	conforming thought to faith	In my mind, this is one of the most important books written in the twentieth century.  Strong words, I admit; please allow me to make my case.  This book helps to remove much of the confusion concerning the Kabbalah which is a rich tradition of repeated attempts to achieve and portray direct experiences of GOD.  In the words of a disciple of Isaac the Blind (1165?-1235?), &quot;The essential thing in the divine service of the mystics and those who meditate on His name, lies in this : 'and cleave to Him.' [Deuteronomy 13:5]  And this is a cardinal principle of Torah and of prayer, that one make one's thought conform with one's faith.&quot;  One of the most important scholars of the twentieth century, Gershom G. Scholem (1897-1982) opened up a once esoteric world of Jewish mysticism, the Kabbalah, to concerned students of religion. The basic thesis of this book is that the Kabbalah originated in one chronologically limited time-span (13th century) and in one geographically limited area (Provene, France and Gerona, Spain). The editor, R. J. Zwi Werblowsky who worked closely with Scholem, writes &quot;in many way's URSPRUNG UND ANFNGE DER KABBALAH (1962) [Origins of the Kabbalah] is the most impressive of all [of his writtings] for here Scholem dealt with a major yet enigmatic phenomenon in the history of Jewish spirituality.&quot;  For Scholem, the oldest literary document of the Kabbalah is the book Bahir.  He presents historical evidence that it is a product of Oriental sources combined with purely gnostic tradition (e.g. Merkabah literature) distilled in German Hasidim to arrive in Provene sometime between 1130 and 1170.  Scholem continues with the fascinating history of the Kabbalah with a study of Isaac the Blind, one of the greatest early interpreters from Provene.  Isaac's many new contributions included combining the Bahir with new ideas, thoughts and terminology.  In the mid-13th century, the trail continues to the city of Gerona as the centre of the contemplative Kabbalah in its most complete development prior to the Zohar.  Scholem writes, &quot;The Kabbalah appeared in Gerona in the fully elaborated form of a contemplative mysticism that sought to draw all domains of Jewish existence into its sphere of influence and to embue them with its spirit.&quot;  I honestly hold to the conviction that this is a book for everyone, regardless of faith, or disposition to esoteric mysticism.  From the first edition, Professor Scholem writes, &quot;Once the ice of ignorance has been broken and the charlatanism that dominated the field has been overcome, the way will be open to further fruitful research.  Jewish studies as well as the history of Oriental and Western religions will benefit equally from a more penetrating study and discussion of the problem of the Kabbalah.&quot;  If you are interested in a spiritual relationship, this book with be interesting to you.	2000-11-26
US	49059127	R9RLAN8Y1NOL8	1568219237	303963376	Spiritual Intimacy: A Study of Counseling in Hasidism	Books	3	5	7	N	N	spiritual counsel	I am interested in the material of this book.  The reason for the three stars is that in the words of the author, &quot;this book is not based on interviews, questionnaires, or other instruments of social research...but for the purposes of this work [Schachter-Shalomi] relied on anecdotes that came to [him] by word of mouth or that were found in the literature concerning the counselor (the rebbe) and his client (the hasid).&quot;   My opionion is that the field would benefit from some of the &quot;other instruments of social research&quot;.  That aside, this is a very informative book which combines psychological counseling with a spiritual relationship.  The yehidut (interview) is not identical with psychotherapy, though.  The author defines it &quot;as a spiritual treatment whereby a trained rebe, who stands in a deliberate contractual relationship with his hasid, listens to his problems and advises him to engage in actions which are designed not only to relieve his suffering, but also to align him with GOD's will for him.&quot;  On this topic, Zalman Meshullam Schachter-Shalomi writes with authority as he was ordained as a Lubavitch-trained rabbi and has counseled men and women for more than 35 years.  For me, so much of psychotherapy attempts to solve problems in isolation of their spiritual significance.  If you are looking for a psychotherapeutic approach which includes a spritual relationship, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-11-26
US	49059127	RROH6DZ824RLJ	0809122073	119110187	Catherine of Genoa: Purgation and Purgatory, The Spiritual Dialogue (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	love from the LORD	St Catherine of Genoa (1447-1510) has a special importance for me because it is her after whom I was named. :D  On 13 January 1463, at the age of sixteen,     Catherine was married to Guiliano Adorni.      He is described as a man of &quot;strange and         recalcitrant nature&quot; who wasted his     substance on disorderly living. Having little         in common with her husband, their      marriage had many difficult years. As did       Jeanne Guyon, Catherine maintained a         strong spiritual relationship despite        opposition in her marriage. Guiliano     became a member of the Third Order of St.     Francis, and both he and Catherine worked      among the poor and the sick. In 1497, she        nursed her husband through his last      illness. In his will he extolled her virtues           and left her all his possessions.  Instead of becoming bitter for her experience, Catherine brought joy and peace to the sick and lame as rector of the hospital of St. Lazarus in Genoa.  Although Catherine was no scholar, she     was, at the same time, inspired, vehement       and warm-hearted. Her work reads as     though she poured out what she had to say     on paper, not staying to choose words, not         revising or hardly revising. If she is       sometimes careless of exactitude, she      compensates for it by spontaneity. In her       simple honest expression, Catherine is        able to address the complex issue, for     example, of what is the cause of the LORD     our GOD's great love for us who are so set       against her, and what are we that GOD              would be mindful of us.  &quot;Know first that I am GOD who change      not, and that I loved man before I created       him, with an infinite, pure, simple and      clear love for which there was no cause,       save that I cannot but love what I have       created and ordained to minister, in its      degree, to my glory. And I have provided      man richly with all fit means to reach hisend, with natural gifts and supernatural      graces which he will never lack in so far      as they depend on me; nay more, with my       infinite love which by divers ways and      means surrounds him so that he may be               subject to my care.&quot;  If you are interested in the faith expression of a woman of grace and courage, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-11-16
US	49059127	R2UL6THTVKFLVV	0345327411	27509538	Markings	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Yes to Someone	I have found this book to be a pleasant read.  The reason that I give it 3  stars is because I feel the book lacks focus.  Without a clear purpose or  direction, I lack a true spiritual involvement.  Others may feel  differently.  Dag Hammarskjld's (1905-1961) leadership at the UN propelled  him      into that special spotlight of a world diplomat     for the cause  of peace. His book of meditations        has given him further stature as  one of the        twentieth century's most noted spiritual                       pilgrims.  I enjoyed discovering the way in which Mr Hammarskjld  struggled with imposing his spiritual understanding onto the world stage.   Although I do not participate at the same world level, nor have the onerous  decisions which he bore, I too have difficulty at times resolving my  spiritual values with my activities and responsibilities. Hammarskjld  writes, &quot;I don't know Who --       or what -- put the question, I  don't know        when it was put. I don't even remember      answering.  But at some moment I did answer     Yes to Someone -- or Something -- and  from         that hour I was certain that existence is       meaningful and  that, therefore, my life, in              self- surrender, had a  goal.&quot; &quot;From that moment I have known what it       means 'not to  look back,' and 'To take no               thought for the morrow.'&quot;   &quot;As I continued along the Way, I learned, step        by step, word by  word, that behind every      saying in the Gospels stands one man and one       man's experience. Also behind the prayer that      the cup might pass  from him and his promise     to drink it. Also behind each of the words  from                     the Cross.&quot;   If you are interested to learn  the thoughts of a dedicated public servant as he attempted to live by his  spiritual values, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-09-16
US	49059127	R1FYV7W92OJFP5	0140440275	903822584	The Imitation of Christ (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Lasting Peace	I enjoy this book.  Thomas A Kempis (1380-1471) writes in a practical way  the method of manifesting a spiritual commitment in a daily life  experience.  Few who seek to imitate the life of the Christ        give  thoughtful consideration of their own      crucifixion. Fortunately, Thomas  was free from     this deception. In his chapter entitled On the Few        Lovers of the Cross of Jesus, he writes, &quot;Jesus     has many who love  His Kingdom in Heaven, but        few who bear His Cross. He has many who       desire comfort, but few who desire suffering. He        finds many to  share His feast, but few His     fasting. All desire to rejoice with Him,  but few are      willing to suffer for His sake. Many follow Jesus to      the Breaking of Bread, but few to the drinking of         the Cup of his  Passion. Many admire His      miracles, but few follow Him in humiliation  of         His Cross. Many love Jesus as long as no      hardship touches  them. Many praise and bless      Him, as long as they are receiving any  comfort      from Him. But if Jesus withdraws Himself, they          fall  to complaining and utter dejection.     They who love Jesus for His own  sake, and not     for the sake of comfort for themselves, bless Him     in  every trial and anguish of heart, no less than in       the greatest joy.  And were He never willing to      bestow comfort on them, they would still  always            praise Him and give Him thanks.&quot;  I have found  spiritual strength in these words.  They have helped me to choose my  spiritual relationship even when circumstances make that choice difficult.   Although this book was written to Christians, I honestly think that anyone  with a genuine spiritual interest can benefit.  If you are interested in  European Christianity in the 15th century, or are interested in building a  spiritual relationship on a firm, pragmatic foundation, this book will  interest you.	2000-09-12
US	49059127	R3LE7ITRT99JQO	080281025X	724050977	New Testament Documents: Are They Reliable?	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Trustworthy	This is an elightening read.  It has allowed me to have more confidence  when I read the Christian Bible.  I now feel confident that I can explain  to interested others the basis for believing that the text we now have is  the same message as preached by the first century Christians.  Regardless  of whether you believe what these people preached, there can be no doubt  that we know what they preached after reading this book. Bruce (1910-1990)  was for many years prior to his death the        Rylands Professor of  Biblical Criticism and        Exegesis at the University of Manchester in      England.  Based on the claim that Chrisitanity is an historical  revelation, he felt justified to look at the foundation documents from a  standpoint of historical criticism.  Perhaps it is impossible to prove  beyond any doubt the authenticity of these documents.  Bruce does show that  &quot;the grounds for accepting the New      Testament as trustworthy  compared favourably       with the grounds on which classical students      accepted the authenticity and credibility of many                  ancient  documents&quot;  If you are interested in fortifying your spiritual  relationship by understanding the historical trustworthiness of the Gospel  Tradition, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-09-12
US	49059127	R1O6X6DRHJUI1U	0824511840	896409295	Life of The Beloved: Spiritual Living in a Secular World	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Sailboats	I enjoy this book very much.  It is ironic that it was a failure.  It did  not serve to improve the lives of Henri Nouwen's (1932-1996) secular  friends as he intended.  Mr Nouwen, to his credit, acknowledges this when  he writes, &quot;My       attempt had been to be a witness of God's to a      secular world, but I had sounded like someone who      is so excited about  the art of sailing that he forgets      that his listeners have never seen  lakes or the sea,                 not to mention sailboats&quot;   As much  as I am disappointed to see one of my favourite books receive a 1-star  rating, I must admit that &quot;jwagner4&quot; is correct.  This book does  not state the message of the Christian Bible, and it does tend toward an  ecumenical spirituality.  Based on these two reports, I would suggest that  if you are searching for a spiritual connection from a secular viewpoint,  or if you are looking for a literal message from the Gospel, you might be  disappointed by this book.  On the other hand, I found spiritual serenity  in reading this book.  Reading that I was cherished by the LORD was  affirming.  It is something I would like to read more often, and read far  too seldom.  Not all Christians have been disappointed by this book.  In  1947, a movement of the Spirit produced the          founding of the Church  of the Saviour in       Washington, D. C., (USA), Pastored by Gordon        Cosby, this church demonstrated a radical faith     witness to the rest of  the world.  Under the direction of Pastor Cosby, the Church of the Saviour  became a vital force for uplifting the neighbourhoods in which it dwelt.   These were low-income neighbourhoods filled with people who were quite  practical about what it takes to live.   Not the type of people who are  usually taken in by pie-in-the-sky theology.  Elizabeth O'Connor      was  one of the church's early members and would        later join the church  staff. Her writings (&quot;Letters to Sacttered Pilgrims) would        chronicle their story, letting the rest of the world      know of the  amazing work GOD was doing in their midst.  Ms O'Connor and Pastor Cosby  were impressed enough with Nouwen's book to ask him if they might use it  for spiritual teaching in their schools.  This is what Ms O'Connor wrote  about this book, &quot;An instructive and gentle book. Henri       Nouwen  does more than tell us that solitude and       community are essential for  the spiritual life. His        words impart a spirit that will better  enable his      readers to provide themselves with these seemingly                  contradictory necessities.&quot;   This book may not be for  everyone.  Even so, if you are interested in developing a meaningful  spiritual relationship, it might be for you.	2000-09-08
US	49059127	RTV5RI9XAPCM5	037570017X	234653689	The Rule of Saint Benedict	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Hope in the LORD's mercy	I enjoy this book very much.  The founder of Western monasticism, born in      Nursia near Spoleto, Italy, St Benedict (c-547) studied at Rome. He      became convinced that the only way of escaping the        evil in the world  was in seclusion and religious      exercise. So as a boy of 14 he withdrew  to a cavern       or grotto near Subiaco, where he lived for three          years. The fame of his piety led to his being       appointed the abbot of  a neighbouring monastery at       Vicovaro, but he soon left it, as the  morals of the        monks were not strict enough.  Although it is anathema  to think of ourselves as insignificant, and to acknowledge that we will  indeed die, I found great spiritual strength in the perspective this grip  of reality has developed.  With respect to the universe, I, as an  individual, am pretty small.  Further, it is a biological fact that I will  not live forever.  Somehow, this provides the freedom for me to consider  and accept everlasting life with an intense desire.  Some of Benedict's  rules are quite practical.  I can understand where a community in close  quarters would benefit.  He writes, &quot;First of all, love the Lord God  with your whole       heart, your whole soul and all your strength, and           love your neighbour as yourself (Matthew     22:37-39)...Rid your  heart of all deceit. Never give a         hollow greeting of peace or turn  away when      someone needs your love Bind yourself to no oath     lest it  prove false, but speak the truth with heart and     tongue...Place your  hope in God alone. If you notice      something good in yourself, give  credit to God, not      to yourself, but be certain that the evil you  commit              is always your own and yours to      acknowledge.&quot;   If you are interesting in the origins of the monasitic lifestyle, or are  seeking to develop a stronger spiritual relationship, this book will be  interesting to you.	2000-09-08
US	49059127	R1APMUCM39914E	006066326X	911444588	Making All Things New: An Invitation to the Spiritual Life	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Spiritual beginnings	Henri Nouwen (1932-1996) writes in a comforting style.  When I read this  book, I feel drawn to a peaceful, spiritual centre.  I, too, had found it  difficult to &quot;find&quot; GOD in my meditations.  Henri Nouwen  explains, &quot;The beginning of the spiritual life is often      difficult  not only because the powers which        cause us to worry are so strong  but also      because the presence of God's Spirit seems      barely  noticeable. If, however, we are willing         to live a life of prayer  and practice the      disciplines of solitude and community, a new         hunger will make itself known. This new       hunger is the first sign of  God's presence.        When we remain attentive to this divine        presence, we will be led always deeper into     the kingdom. There, to our  joyful surprise, we      will discover that the power of our worries is       waking and all things are being made new.&quot;  Since reading this book,  I have become away of being drawn to develop my own spiritual relationship.   Without knowing exactly the source of this power, I nonetheless can feel  my spiritual life growing. I feel I now understand a bit more clearly what  a spiritual life is, and I certainly have found a desire to live it.  If  you are interested in developing a spiritual relationship, this book will  be interesting to you.	2000-09-03
US	49059127	RXIIAGLJH4HAE	0882707574	113799572	Pilgrim's Progress In Modern English (Updated) (Pure Gold Classics)	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Christian's Journey	This was an enjoyable read for me.  The allegory of Christian on the road  to eternal life was interesting for the sense of adventure.  It was also  revealing in its depiction of experiences common to myself.  I was  surprised to see my own journey described so clearly in some parts.  Just  knowing that I am not alone in my experience is a great source of comfort  in my spiritual relationship.  John Bunyan (1628-1688) was a remarkable and  courageous individual.  He was a tinker inspired to preach the gospel.  He  was rewarded for his effort with a prison term lasting 12 years.  His time  in prison was well-spent because he wrote his first book &quot;Grace  Abounding&quot; and started &quot;Pilgrim's Progress&quot; during his  incarceration.  Up until the 20th century, there was hardly an  English-speaking household which did not own a copy of this book.  It was  often used as a reading primer. After     the Bible (KJV), this classic  allegory has been        the best-selling Christian book and has        influenced English literature and thought       through the four centuries  in which it has        been in print.  There are so many delightful and  thought provoking tales in this book, there is not enough room to tell  nearly enough of them.  I will relate but one example: Presenting the  subtle diversion which a desire     for worldly success can bring, Bunyan  writes,        &quot;'First,' said Mr Moneylove, 'becoming      religious  is a virtue, regardless of the means        he employed to be so. Second -  it's not       unlawful to get a rich wife or to bring more       business  to his shop. Third - the man who      gets these by becoming religious gets  things       that are good from them who are good by      becoming good  himself. So then, here are a       good wife, good customers, and good  gain;          and he has gotten all these things by     becoming  religious, which is good. Becoming        religious in order to get all  these things,     therefore, is a good and profitable intention.'&quot;<br />     To which, Bunyan counters, &quot;Then Christian      said, 'Even a babe  in religion may answer ten      thousand such questions. If it is unlawful  to       follow Christ to obtain loaves, as shown in      John six, how  much more abominable is it to     make of Him and religion a stalking-horse  to        get and enjoy the world?'&quot;  If you are interested in  Protestant preaching as it existed in 17th century England, or you would  like to understand what the Christian journey is about, this book will be  interesting to you.	2000-09-03
US	49059127	R2FDO7SFXRXYOG	0842347100	584718378	The Normal Christian Life	Books	5	95	99	N	N	Thoroughly Effective	I have strengthened my spiritual relationship as a result of reading this  book.  First of all, Ni To-sheng, aka Watchman Nee, (1903-1972) was a man  of inspiring determination and courage.  During his thirty years of  ministry, beginning in 1919, Nee travelled throughout China planting  churches among the rural communities and pastoring in Shanghai.  In January  of 1956, Nee was brought up on charges by the local authorities in  Shanghai.  He was imprisoned until 1972 when he was released days before  his death in his home province.  I am thankful that I live where religious  tolerance is practiced.  I am also impressed with Mr Nee's example.  His  book is equally impressive.  The book of Romans deals with some difficult  theology.  At times, I have been unable to explain many of its concepts,  particularly, to non-Christians.  Watchman Nee is simple and thorough, but  never thoroughly simple.  He eschews theological discussion in favour of  explanations and examples intended to provide new Christians with tools to  build a spiritual relationship.  This direct approach was in response to  his audience, as he explains, &quot;We have          learned in China that,  when leading a            soul to Christ, we must be very            thorough, for there is no certainty           when he will again have the  help of          other Christians. We always seek to           make it  clear to a new believer that,         when he has asked the Lord to forgive           his sins and to come into his life, his          heart has become  the residence of a         living Person. The Holy Spirit of God is            now within him, to open to him the           Scriptures that he may find  Christ         there, to direct his prayer, to govern his            life,  and to reproduce in him the                character of his Lord.&quot;    In this manner, Mr Nee explains that a spiritual life begins with an  objective revelation followed by a subjective experience which is composed  of typically, a crisis and an on-going process.  From this book, I  understood more that the LORD, my GOD, plays a personal role in my life,  building a spiritual relationship.  If you are interested in Christian  Missionary work in China, or in building a stronger spiritual relationship,  this book will be interesting to you.	2000-09-02
US	49059127	RTV7EQWNDTGL1	0824511190	145448109	Does God Exist: An Answer for Today	Books	5	36	42	N	N	Answer with a Question	Hans Kng (b1928) is thorough to a fault.  From reading this book, I get the impression he could spend all day telling me the sun is out. ;-)  I  learned a great deal from this book.  Nearly every philosopher and  theologian from the time of Descartes receives mention, if not a critical  exposition.  It is difficult for me to recall       an influential thinker  during the past four        millennia who is yet to be considered by      Kng.   The irony of such thoroughness is that Kung, in fact, leaves his  own question unanswered.  He does not state that God Exists much less offer  a convincing proof.  In some sense, I pity those who naively pick up this  heavy material expecting the answer to the title to leap leap from one of  the pages.  That is not the intent of this exhaustive study.  On the other  hand, my own faith was strengthened by Herr Kung's argument which I would  suggest is that it is equally reasonable and rational to believe in GOD as  it is to believe in no god.  Hans Kng methodically develops the  reasonableness of faithing in the GOD of Abraham, and the Christ, Jesus.   Based on the finding that it is reasonable to believe in the LORD, my GOD,  I found new confidence in my spiritual relationship.  My relationship with  the LORD is based on a &quot;fundamental trust&quot;, as Herr Kung calls  it. In this way, I have learned to experience my spiritual relationship in  a similar fashion to my valued friendships.  Both are based on a growing  trust.  Although, I cannot prove my friend exists, I can prove that the  relationship I have affects my life.  In the view of Hans Kung, the grace  of GOD plays an important role in this &quot;fundamental trust&quot;.  He  explains, &quot;But also like fundamental trust,       trust in God cannot  simply be decided on,      willed, extorted or produced. I cannot simply       create or produce ultimate certainty, security,      stability, for  myself. God -- as we saw -- is      not an object of immediate experience;  he is       not part of existing reality, he is not among         the  objects available to experience; no      intuition or speculation, no  direct experience     or immediate perception, can provide a 'view'      of  him. It is just because of this that belief in             God is seen as a  gift.&quot;  In my experience it has required a bit of courage to move from  the known to the unknown, however, that courage has been rewarded, in my  case, with a strong spiritual relationship.  If you are interested in the  development of critical thought since Descartes with regard to our  relationship with a diety, or if you are interested in learning about the  function of fundamental trust in a faith experience which enhances a  spiritual relationship, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-09-02
US	49059127	RZMPMATMCG5WV	0385092199	836485979	Contemplative Prayer (Image Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Unknown Knowing	&quot;Without true, deep contemplative           aspirations, without a  total love for          GOD and an uncompromising thirst          for his  truth, religion tends in the end                 to become an opiate.&quot;   These are the words with which Thomas Merton (1916-1968) closes this book.   I learned to appreciate that meditation is an embracing of reality more  than a retreat from reality.  I have been inspired to focus more clearly on  the situation at hand and to reveal how my spiritual relationship can  improve what I see.  It is easy for me to be distracted by many things  during the day, and this tendency is only exacerbated when the task is  daunting.  Thomas Merton has taught me that, in meditation, I am advantaged  by an attitude or outlook of faith,            openness, attention,  reverence,         expectation, supplication, trust, and joy. All           these finally permeate my being with         love in so far as my living  faith tells me         I am in the presence of the LORD, that I          live in Christ, that in the Spirit of the LORD           I &quot;see&quot;  the LORD, my GOD, without               &quot;seeing.&quot; I know her in           &quot;unknowing.&quot; Faith is the bond that         unites me to  him in the Spirit who gives                   me light and love.  If you  are interested in meditation in the twentieth century, or in building a  stronger spiritual awareness, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-09-02
US	49059127	R8TYWU8AA5EIP	0809122332	590202130	Catherine of Siena : The Dialogue (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	5	51	58	N	N	Loving Others	This book has been important to me.  From it, I learned that loving the  LORD, my GOD, is manifested by the love which I exercise in the intercourse  with my neighbour.  This was already a well-known idea by the time of  Catherine of Siena (1347-1380).  It is articulated in the first epistle,  chapter 4, from John.  Catherine puts this virtue into action in her role  as a diplomat for Pope Gregory XI.  She was a determined woman of great  spiritual fortitude, and is an inspiration to me.  Catherine joins the acts  of loving God with loving our neighbour.  She does this by setting the will  to love our neighbor as an attribute of the love which we have for God.   Her argument to support this premise is profoundly logical.  In brief, we  cannot love God as God loves us because she loved us before we loved her.   We manifest the will of God by loving our neighbor, even before our  neighbour loves us.  Since this goes against our natural instincts as  humans, it must be the love of God which is at work.  In this way, we are  loving God as he loves us, and in this way, his love is glorified.  In  Catherine's own words, as she relates a conversation she received,         &quot;And I, [the LORD, our GOD,]         would have thee know that         just as every imperfection and      perfection is acquired from Me, so        is it manifested by means of the        neighbour...I require that you      should love Me with the same love     with which I love you. This indeed      you cannot do, because I loved you      without being loved...Therefore to        Me, in person you cannot repay     the love which I require of you  and      I have placed you in the midst of       your fellows, that you may  do to      them that which you cannot do to       Me, that is to say, that  you may      love your neighbour of free grace,      without expecting any  return from       him, and what you do to him, I       count as done to Me,  which My      Truth [the Christ, Jesus] showedforth when He said to  Paul, My       persecutor == Saul, Saul, why           persecutes thou  Me?&quot;<br />This logic appeals to me, and has given me strength in my  spiritual relationship.   It is not easy to love the LORD, and even more  difficult, sometimes, to love those we see everyday.  Catherine of Siena  has provided me with some tools that help me to make that happen.  If you  are interested in a deeper spiritual relationship, in the spiritual  thoughts of a politically powerful woman, or in mysticism as it was  practiced in 14th century Italy, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-08-27
US	49059127	RPGXUABWTGC03	0385065396	382721346	The Way of Perfection (Image Classics)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Active Love	I enjoy this book and have gained spiritual strength from the lessons it  teaches.   Teresa of Avila (1515-1582) has written a guide for the woman of  the Carmelite Order which she re-established in 1562 with the assistance of  John of the Cross (1542-1591).  This is a guide to prayer, and beyond that,  it contains her insights on building a spiritual relationship.  The  foundation of the relationship is based on three principles, Detachment,  Humility and Active Love.   The term &quot;detachment&quot; is really more  accurately &quot;attachment&quot;.   The focus has changed from allowing  circumstances to rule my decisions, to allowing the priority of a spiritual  relationship to be part of that decision process.  Humility is a  challenging discipline for me.   It has helped me to recognize my own  arrogance.  Teresa writes that it is arrogant to persist in the belief that  the life we have been given is less than what we deserve.  By recognizing  this, I have been able to develop much more constructive ways of living.   Finally, Active Love is the most challenging of all, and is the virtue  which prepares for, as the Saint describes, &quot;the way of perfection  achieved in prayer&quot;.  As powerful as this discussion is from the pen  of a spiritual leader in her time, it gains credibility as Teresa manifests  her spiritual theories through the example of a commentary on the  Paternoster (Luke 11:2-5).  I found that to be as good a starting point as  any for implementing her profound ideas.  If you are interested in  strengthening your spiritual relationship, or in Mysticism as practiced in  16th century Spain, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-08-27
US	49059127	R3HI92FMY05FSV	0140443851	499165780	The Cloud of Unknowing and Other Works (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	23	40	N	N	Unknown Knowing	I found this book was fascinating.  I also found it pedantic and tiring.   The author returns repeatedly to the same precepts with only minor  enhancements.  Nonetheless, I found value in the central idea which is that  the LORD, our GOD, is unknowable.  This is an idea which brings with it  hope at a time when Europe was in the grips of the Black Death and the  Hundred Years War.  It is also an idea which Karl Barth articulated when he  distinguished between a &quot;no-god&quot; of religious organizations as  opposed to the GOD which is completely &quot;other&quot;, whom we meet in a  personal, spiritual relationship.  This idea found resonance with me.  I am  reminded that I often become so involved with doing that I leave precious  little time for being.  Familiarity breeds contempt.  I find that I am  furthest from my LORD when I feel I know her.  Contrary, the times I feel  closest in my spiritual relationship is when the awe of how little I know  about him is apparent.  From the comprehensive notes by Clifton Wolters, I  learned of the peculiar habits of this author as well as his genuine  dedication.   If you are interested in strengthening your spiritual  relationship by introducing an &quot;unknowable&quot; aspect of the LORD,  our GOD, into your meditation, or if you are interested in mysticism as it  was practiced in Britain during that fruitful period of the 14th century,  this book will be interesting to you.	2000-08-27
US	49059127	R1MKGRHDD2LKCD	0140446737	187931287	Revelations of Divine Love (Short Text and Long Text)	Books	5	137	143	N	N	God as Lover	I enjoyed reading this book.  It is an account of 16 visions which  appeared to Mother Julian (1342-1416) along with her meditations of the  experience.  She was a recluse who lived in Norwich in what is now the  British Isles.  I had not considered the LORD my God as my lover until I  learned this from Julian.  In her natural style, she explained to me the  love God has for each of us.  This statement of hers has meant a great deal  to me, &quot;  Some of us believe that God is almighty, and may do  everything; and that he is all wise and can do everything; but that he is  all love, and &gt;&gt;will&lt;&lt; do everything - there we draw back. And  as I see it, this ignorance is the greatest of all hindrances to God's  lovers.&quot;  I feel that this is a message from which many may benefit,  regardless of creed.  In addition, I learned a bit about the solitary  religious life which was popular in the Middle Ages.  If you are interested  in learning of the love God has for you, or in the religion of the Middle  Ages, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-08-20
US	49059127	R2V2Q2TNIU7DF5	068481501X	483089722	Ethics	Books	5	95	106	N	N	Ethical Living	Dietrich Bonhoeffer (1906-1945) was a rare individual.  He transcended the human plane as he practiced what he taught. This is his last writing, and  it is unfinished because he was executed in prison for living the ethics he  preached.  In this book, Bonhoeffer states, &quot;Ethics as formation,  then, means the bold endeavor to speak about the way in which the form of  Jesus Christ takes form in our world, in a manner which is neither abstract  nor casuistic, neither programmatic nor purely speculative.&quot;  Partly  because his theology would not allow a speculative ethic, Bonhoeffer  returned from the safety of New York City to a Germany ruled by the  insanity called National Socialism.  There, he became a leader, along with  Martin Niemueller and Karl Barth, in the &quot;bekennende Kirche&quot;  opposing National Socialism and an advocate on behalf of Jewish People.  His efforts earned him imprisonment in 1943.  As the Second European War  (1939-1945) came to a close, Bonhoeffer was hanged until dead in the  concentration camp at Flossenburg.  Dietrich Bonoeffer understood the cost  of discipleship.  I think that this book has something to offer people who  have faith, regardless of creed.  It is written by someone of strong  convictions, and is inspiring to me as I develop my own ethical standards.  It is not easy to develop a spiritual relationship in a temporal world.  Reading &quot;Ethics&quot; increased my resolve and desire to try.  If you  are interested in learning about Christianity and ethics from someone who  lived what he taught, this book will be interesting to you.	2000-08-11
US	49059127	R2734WCP5BF4NY	0486409597	963671030	Practical Mysticism	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Practically Mystified	I enjoy this book.  It falls short of five stars, in my opinion, because  the thesis which Evelyn Underhill (1875-1941) argues, namely, that  spiritual concerns have priority over temporal ones, is belied by her  inability to engage in a world beyond her sheltered life of privilege.   That aside, there are many wonderful and redeeming qualities brought to  light by her insights.  It is clear to me that she has considered this  subject quite seriously in translating the meaning of a spiritual  relationship into secular terms.  I have often found it difficult to  reconcile Free Will with Determinism.  However, I clearly understood her  explanation, &quot;Perhaps, you always fancied that your will was free --  That you were actually, as you sometimes said, 'captain of your soul.' If  so, this was merely one amongst the many illusions which supported your old  enslaved career.&quot; Thoughts, such as these, are, of course, valuable.   Even so, what is more important to me is that Ms Underhill identifies  clearly the steps to a fulfilling, spiritual relationship by outlining  three Forms of Contemplation.  Briefly, they are : (1) discovering your own  connections with the world around you; (2) recognizing that the changes in  the world are the &quot;outbirth of another power ... transcendent to  itself.&quot; and (3) experiencing a &quot;mysterious contact, a clear  certitude of communion and possession.&quot;  Her gentle, patient  explanations make clear to me some of the tools which help me to have a  spiritual relationship.  If you are interested in developing a spiritual  self, this book will be intersting to you.	2000-08-08
US	49059127	R178XGECT6KJ0X	0940232006	230293325	Experiencing the Depths of Jesus Christ (Library of Spiritual Classics, Volume 2)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Learning to Pray	I enjoyed this book.  Madame Guyon (1648-1717) describes a &quot;short and very easy mehod of prayer; which all can practice with the greatest facility, and arrive in a short time, by its means, at a high degree of  perfection.&quot;  She talks directly to the reader in a patient voice.  The beginning of the book is for people who are just starting out to pray.  From that part, I learned about &quot;praying the scripture&quot;, which  involves reading carefully.  Finally, the book ends with what Madame Guyon  calls the &quot;ultimate stage of Christian experience. Divine Union&quot;  If you are interested in learning to pray, this is an interesting book for  you.	2000-07-30
US	49059127	RH1ZP7ZKL9WWL	0802400183	289635553	The God of All Comfort	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Finding Comfort	This is a favourite book of mine.  This book is about how to find comfort in a Christian life.  Even though it is written for Christians, I think that people of all faiths might gain from reading this book.  The premise  of this book is that comfort in our spiritual relationship derives from  faith.  This faith is a decision.  The decision is to decide what we will  have faith in: either circumstances or the words in the Bible.  If you are  interested in peace in your spiritual relationship, this book will be  interesting to you.	2000-07-29
