US	49085273	RJNJCATVKFMBX	0070132356	527533280	Security Analysis	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	3rd edition is great. 5th edition is a hoax!	5th edition: <br />This is a sham!  This is NOT the 5th edition of Graham and Dodd's Security Analysis.  Graham didn't write this book.  He was dead for many years when Cottle, Murray and Block highjacked the \\"Graham and Dodd's Security Analysis\\" brand to use it as a title of their book which has nothing to do with the originals and is certainly not their 5th edition. <br />As far as the qualities of this particular book are concerned, there is one thing I can say: <br />Dry as sand.  This is the best description I could come up with.  It took me six years to complete it. I started reading it in 1999 and I just finished it (today is March 2005).  In the meantime I have read most of Graham's original works and dozens of other books.  Reading it was not a total waste of time or else I wouldn't persist for so long but it was a very boring experience for the most part.  I recommend this book to be used as a reference guide rather than to read it from cover to cover.   <br />I give it 3 stars. <br /> <br />1st and 3rd editions: <br />The first edition is already outdated.  The book was written before the reforms of the securities industry in the 1930s and therefore is only useful as a guide to general investment policy and not so much as a guide to security analysis.   <br />I give 4 stars to the 1st edition.  <br />I strongly recommend the 3rd edition which is by far the best book on the topics of corporate finance and investments. (I haven't read the 4th edition which may turn out to be even better than the 3rd one).  I cannot thing of any other book that comes even close to it.  Graham is a practical man and the book is full of practical advice to investors and analysts.  Other textbooks are exclusively devoted to theory.  Their writers lack the hands-on investing experience that Graham has. (The so called 5th edition is a perfect illustration to the point).   <br />It amazes me that several decades after Graham wrote his masterpieces no one else was able to come evenclose to him in terms of writing a practical and coherent theory of financial analysis and investment policy.  <br />I give 5 stars to the 3rd edition <br /> <br />Overall I gave 4 stars to the book only because of the so called 5th edition.	2005-07-11
US	49085273	R8BCG4FTG2B38	0192860925	396036325	The Selfish Gene (Popular Science)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	a revolutionary work of science	One of the most important science books of the twentieth century!  Dawkins revolutionized the way we think about evolution.<br />The Selfish Gene is a fascinating book that changed they way I look at the world.  It explains how creatures evolved as means for their genes to replicate themselves.  The genes are the drivers of life, the bodies are their vehicles.<br />This book and E. O. Wilson's Sociobiology were the two pioneering works in the field of evolutionary psychology.  Unfortunately, to this day The Selfish Gene remains the most important book in that field.  Many evolutionary psychology writers since Dawkins have moved farther away from Science and a lot deeper into the world of speculation and \\"just so\\" stories.<br />Richard Dawkins managed to upset many simple minded creationists.  Their faith is apparently not strong enough or else they wouldn't bother to argue with scientists.	2005-06-08
US	49085273	R3BY4V8S86XLAW	2266144340	315416156	Da Vinci Code (French language edition)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	just an ordinary thriller	What is the hype and hysteria all about?  It is just an ordinary thriller.  The characters are shallow and the plot has several inconsistencies. If you put all the mysticism aside, it is all about \\"good guys\\" who look for clues to solve riddles while being chased by the \\"bad guys\\".  It is just like a computer game or any other thriller for that matter.<br /><br />Dan Brown has managed to fool many readers that his fiction is based on real people, real facts, and real historic events.  Unfortunately, both history and science facts were highly inaccurate.  Either Mr. Brown did a sloppy research or he deliberately twisted the facts to fit his story.  He even starts the book by claiming that the Priory of Sion and the list of Grand Masters are FACTS.<br /><br />There really was a catholic order called the Order of Sion.  It was dissolved in the 17the century and its members became Jesuit monks.  There is nothing interesting about it.  The so called List of the Grand Masters however is not a fact but a hoax invented by a right wing French political organization known as the Priory of Sion.  They were hoping to obtain credibility by associating themselves with famous men.  The Priory was not a clandestine organization and had nothing to do with the medieval order.  They published a newspaper and constantly sought the spot light.  They were mostly ridiculed by the French society.<br /><br />Many other \\"facts\\" in this book are also twisted to give them a mysterious angle.  Besides, Dan Brown is relaying too much on biast feminist interpretations of the Bible.<br /><br />I have to admit that I enjoyed reading the book.  I was hooked by the story until the last chapters when the plot started to fall apart.  The ending of a thriller makes it or breaks it.  This one didn't make it.	2005-06-03
US	49085273	R23VYQG8VNPUEI	0871136643	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	1	27	45	N	N	it is all wrong!	If you are someone who never read anything other than Tom Clancy novels then you may find this book fascinating.  It will justify all the prejudice you hold about the World.<br />However, if you do have some background knowledge in History and Evolutionary Biology, then you will certainly see this book for what it really is: a shallowly researched and not well thought out theory of an armchair intellectual.<br /><br />Bloom fails to deliver any proof to support his theory.  The overwhelming amount of anecdotes and experiments with animals that are given in the book might fool the casual reader that Bloom knows what he is writing about but none of those examples proves his theory.  He claims that Selfish Genes and Kin Selection do not explain certain phenomena yet he fails to deliver on the promise to prove the alternative explanation: Group Selection.  Group Selection is simply taken as something that exists and does not need to be proven.<br /><br />Bloom is so unable to provide logical reasoning that he is forced to attribute events to the intervention of a divine intellect that has a plan for us. Religious people refer to this intellect as God. Hitler called it Providence.  Bloom is using the term Evolution for the same purpose.<br /><br />Evolution has a plan for us and violence is part of it.  This is what Blooms' theory is all about.  It is silly.  It is stupid.  Evolution has no plan for us.  Evolution has no direction.  Evolution is not a mystical force that leads us to a higher purpose.  Evolution is just a term that scientist use to explain the effect of random mutations on spices. Evolution or Nature if you will does not have a plan for us. It does not have a plan at all.<br /><br />Bloom may have read Dawkins' Selfish Gene but apparently he didn't understand it.  I doubt he ever read E. O. Wilson's Sociobiology: it's a hardcore science book, not a popular reading that an armchair intellectual would like.  Kin Selection explains the behavior of individuals and groups a lot better than Bloom's mystical Lucifer Principle, whatever that is.<br /><br />Last but not least, Bloom is taking events out of context and is twisting them in a way that will fit his theory.  Whenever he doesn't falsify events, he simplifies them to a point where one can reach a misleading conclusion about what happened.  Numerous historic events that contradict the main theme of the book are conveniently forgotten.  It's a typical example when one deliberately seeks a trend and finds it.loom's mystical Lucifer Principle, whatever that is.     Last but not least, Bloom is taking events out of context and is twisting them in a way that will fit his theory.  Whenever he doesn't falsify events, he simplifies them to a point where one can reach a misleading conclusion about what happened.  Numerous historic events that contradict the main theme of the book are conveniently forgotten.  It's a typical example when one deliberately seeks a trend and finds it.	2005-02-21
US	49085273	R3KXG4JKBSA07H	0884271153	518151944	It's Not Luck	Books	4	1	6	N	N	This one is good but The Goal is a lot better.	This one is good but The Goal is a lot better.	2005-02-21
US	49085273	RQS2027260S43	0884270610	377698726	The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement	Books	5	3	4	N	N	one of the greatest business books ever!	This is an easy to read business novel.  No dry theory. Goldratt used his background in science to formulate and solve problems in manufacturing.  His ideas are simple and at the same time brilliant.  I recommend this book to anyone who is involved in manufacturing or supply chain management.  The Goal gave me more insight into what is going on in a factory than half a dozen management courses I took in college.   <br />Warning: This book is not for literature snobs. You must have some interest in manufacturing processes to find this book interesting.	2005-02-21
US	49085273	R2EQQBON70KUDA	0812885198	213140720	German Army 1933-1945	Books	3	4	19	N	N	not too good	Mr. Cooper relies too much on the memoirs of German generals, which are not a reliable source.  Naturally, they try to find a scapegoat for their failures.  After the War Hitler became an easy target.  Besides, as a professional historian, Mr. Cooper should have realized that defeated generals ALWAYS blame the defeat on the \\"overwhelming\\" material and numerical superiority of the enemy.  I am yet to hear of a general who would blame a defeat on his poor skills.  Germans make no exception.  They would see hundreds of enemy tanks when only a few dozen were actually present; they would see millions of Soviet infantrymen across the battlefield when the Red Army was barely able to put 300,000 - 400,000 men.  It should have been no secret for Cooper that by 1942 The Third Reich (including all the occupied areas in Europe and its satellite states) was one of the most populous states in the World.  A very large percentage of its population was composed of Germans and other so called \\"super humans\\" or whatever they thought they were.  Not to mention the vast industrial and natural resources available in occupied Europe.  Soviet Union, on the other hand had lost 40% of its densely populated territories and millions of soldiers were either killed or captured.  The numerical superiority of the Red Army during the War is a myth that persists to this day in popular history.    Mr. Cooper also has a very narrow idea of how armored warfare should have been waged.  His idea boils down to \\"tank attacks with unprotected flanks\\".  Any attempt to protect the flanks is considered a blasphemy!  Is there any modern army that advocates such a tactic?  I doubt.  Cooper is no expert on strategy and tactics.   Another thing that strikes me is the author's sympathy with the Germans.  German soldiers are constantly described as \\"fighting bravely, heroically, and with great skil\\".  The Soviets are just \\"the enemy\\".  I always thought that the Nazi inspired German soldier was the villain not the Siberian peasant who fought for the life of his children.	2005-02-21
US	49085273	R3J1COPE5EAD30	0140444270	888404112	On War (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	hard to read	I don't know if the translation is bad or Clausewitz could not express himself clearly but the book is hard to read.  What do you make of paragraphs like the following one:<BR>\\"But after his [Frederick the Great's] skilful application of the system of husbanding his resources had shown the powers allied against him, through a seven years' struggle, that the actual expenditure of strength far exceeded what they had at first anticipated, they made peace.\\"<BR>Since Clausewitz is considered a classic, I am much more inclined to blame it on the translator.  Everyone who studied German knows that you can't translate word for word.  German grammar is different.  They put verbs in weird places.  <BR>I don't know if other translations are any better but this one is definitely hard to read.	2004-07-01
US	49085273	R9GZT6PHS1X2F	0375421890	444416285	Against Love: A Polemic	Books	1	15	35	N	N	why marxists got it all wrong?	Kipnis' argument is that marriage has been invented by Capitalism to manipulate us into having children and working hard to provide for them.  Does anyone believe that?  How did Mr. Capitalism accomplish that?  Who and what is capitalism anyway?  Does Kipnis know?  Is she suggesting that CEOs and mutual fund managers are conspiring to make us marry so that we can work hard to feed our kids?  <BR>The truth is that marriage has been in existence for thousands of years.  People used to get married millennia before the advent of modern capitalism.  Neither did marriage disappear in the Soviet Union and other Marxist states.  Modern capitalism if anything acts to discourage us from getting married and having lots of children.  How? Very simple: in order to have children, mothers must quit working for several months.  This is not something that most employers are happy about.  Many women would much rather focus on their career than bear children.  Not surprisingly we find that average family size in North America, Japan, and Europe is smaller than it used to be 200 years ago and is constantly declining.  What has happened to Capitalism's conspiracy to make us have more children?  If there ever was such a conspiracy then it certainly has failed.  <BR>Blaming everything on Capitalism has been en vogue ever since Karl Marx published his half-baked ideas about society.  The fall of the Soviet Union did not end this unfortunate trend.  Many armchair intellectuals and union members truly believe that the World would become a better place if only we could abolish the \\"wicked\\" capitalist system.  As if the Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert do not have many of the same problems that we do.  They marry and then divorce, just like we do.<BR>Many marriages are lonely and lifeless, that is true.  But don\\"t blame society for that.  Marriage exists in all societies around the World and it always did.  The only Force that manipulates us to marry and have children is our DNA.  Our genes can't care less about our happiness as long as we ensure their rebirth in the next generation.  If there ever was a conspiracy then we should be looking for it in Evolution not in modern capitalist system.	2003-09-05
US	49085273	R21RVZD0PKZ3B8	0679747885	434246350	A Tour of the Calculus	Books	2	6	7	N	N	this is a book about Berlinski, not about calculus	If Berlinski's literary talent was only half as big as his ego then he would have been a good writer.  Unfortunately, that is not the case.  It was not bad enough to confuse the readers with awkward explanations of math concepts but he had to make us endure his pompous prose and annoying literary interludes.  Add to this open contempt for the readers and you will get a book for masochists.  <BR>What people other than masochists will tolerate an author to tell them that he feels sorry for them because they can not comprehend a particular mathematical theorem?  This on top of having to endure his amateurish attempt to write prose.<BR>I read the book several years ago.	2003-08-28
US	49085273	R2T5OOTWCQK8JF	047111927X	467555011	Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits and Other Writings (Wiley Investment Classics)	Books	3	69	82	N	Y	good but overrated	This is one of the most overrated business books of all times!  The first time I read it, it was a torture.  Then I picked it up for a second read because I figured that maybe I didn't quite get it the first time.  How can so many people, including Warren Buffet, like it if it wasn't a good book?  The second time I read it only confirmed my initial impressions.  It is not too bad but it is clearly overrated.<BR>Fisher's investment philosophy, the way I understood it, boils down to the following: Common stocks of good companies are worth buying at any price.  Just find a good business with excellent growth prospects and buy the stock.  The price will take care of itself.  <BR>This is the kind of approach that inflated the stocks of the so called nifty fifty in the early 1970s.  Since Fisher's book was already a best seller by that time, I suspect that he was partially responsible for what has happened to the stocks of the nifty fifty.  <BR>Now, maybe I didn't quite get it.  Maybe Fisher didn't really mean that a good business can justify any stock price, no matter how high.  Then again, I read the book twice and if I couldn't get it then he didn't make it obvious enough.  Only in the last part of the book (Conservative Investors Sleep Well) he suggests that value does matter.  Unfortunately for many early readers, that part of the book was not written and added until long after the nifty fifty burst. <BR>His approach toward finding future stars is not likely to work unless you do it during a bull market.  Then again, almost any other investment strategy will make money in a bull market, even technical analysis.  New technology developments and the state of future competition are too difficult to predict by any method.  One of the few stars he ever found out was Motorola.  It was a lucky shot because when he first found out the company, it was manufacturing TVs, not cell phones and pagers.  Ironically, the company was soon kicked out of the television sets business for which Fisher chose them. <BR>I don't know why Warren Buffet ever said that he liked Fisher's investment philosophy.  I don't thing he is scuttlebutting for the future Intels and Microsofts.   <BR>Last but not least, the book is very poorly written.  Fisher has absolutely no talent for a writer.  His writing style is tortures for the reader.  His editor probably gave up editing after the first few pages, crossed his fingers and sent the book to the printing press.  Editing the book would have been equal to rewriting it.  I don't think any editor would've had the patience and the time to do it.<BR>To be fair, I like some aspects of Fisher's investment philosophy.  He advocates long term commitment to strong businesses with good potentials.  And, he wouldn't commit unless he had done a thorough investigation of the company.  There are some other gems in the book such as his discussion of stock purchase timing but the reader has to dig them out from a pile of trivia.  Three stars are well deserved.	2003-08-22
US	49085273	R2O4CQW157KPWN	0060536357	68579470	Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco	Books	5	3	4	N	N	fascinating account of the 1980s merger mania	It reads like a thriller.  Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down.  It is the story of the RJR Nabisco buyout through the eyes of two journalists and it shows that a real world story can be just as dramatic as fiction.  This book is one of the most important documentaries of the 1980s.	2003-08-22
US	49085273	R310XLIKXPNPE3	1580622240	626958013	Selling To VITO (The Very Important Top Officer)	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	it is a useful book for beginers.	Mr. Parinello seems to have some unresolved issues with those of us who graduated from college.  I have never before encountered a person who is so full of contempt for engineers, accountants, programmers, managers, and all other professionals who chouse to graduate from University rather than make cold calls to little old ladies.  <BR>Putting Mr. Parinello's high-school drop out attitudes towards education aside, the book is not too bad.  If you have never sold anything to an organization before then you can learn a decent approach from this book and then adopt it to your own situation.  Just don't take Parinello's cheesy pitches too seriously.  You will make a fool of yourself in front of the top managers you will talk to.  Many if not most of them got an MBA degree.  They will catch your bluff it you try to talk to them about financial concepts that you don't know much about.	2003-08-21
US	49085273	R1SE6SEJWEM6ED	0471370088	120979013	The Financial Numbers Game: Detecting Creative Accounting Practices	Books	2	12	17	N	Y	you are not likely to learn anything knew from this book	This book is not likely to tell you anything that you don't know already from reading the newspapers.  The authors wrote in the introduction that it requires advanced knowledge of finance and accounting to comprehend the material.  Nothing like that.  A couple of basic accounting courses are all you need to read it.  It is redundant.  It didn't tell me anything new although if I were a sophomore in college then maybe I would have learned something.  Don't expect to get any insight into the financial numbers game.  It is a little more than a basic review of current accounting issues.  If you read business publications from time to time then you are already well familiar with everything the book has to say.	2003-08-21
US	49085273	R1E2JWPF7GSXII	1580622240	626958013	Selling To VITO (The Very Important Top Officer)	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	it is a useful book for beginers.	Mr. Parinello seems to have some unresolved issues with those of us who graduated from college.  I have never before encountered a person who is so full of contempt for engineers, accountants, programmers, managers, and all other professionals who chouse to graduate from University rather than make cold calls to little old ladies.  <BR>Putting Mr. Parinello's high-school drop out attitudes towards education aside, the book is not too bad.  If you have never sold anything to an organization before then you can learn a decent approach from this book and then adopt it to your own situation.  Just don't take Parinello's cheesy pitches too seriously.  You will make a fool of yourself in front of the top managers you will talk to.  Many if not most of them got an MBA degree.  They will catch your bluff it you try to talk to them about financial concepts that you don't know much about.	2003-08-21
US	49085273	R1QOE5KLFS88HX	1587990008	598596071	Latticework: The New Investing	Books	1	19	39	N	Y	pretentious and superficial	After writing several books about Warren Buffet, Mr. Hagstrom must have decided that the market for books about the Sage has been saturated and moved on to his next venture:  to write a book about a half-baked success theory of Mr. Charlie Munger, the intellectual snob who sits quietly next to Warren Buffet during the annual shareholders' meeting of Berkshire Hathaway.  The result is a self-help book for Berkshire Cult members.    <BR>Mr. Munger may be on the right track when he says that a businessman should have a very broad knowledge about the World in order to make competent decisions. However I doubt that he was ever able to come up with a coherent theory of how to get rich through getting bookish.  It doesn't matter.  Every half-baked idea that comes out of the prophet's mouth is being turned into a gospel by the devotees.  <BR>Believe it or not but this book is all about teaching you how to get rich by reading Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, and the autobiography of Richard Feynman.  Don't laugh!  It is true.<BR>There may be some way to apply knowledge from various branches of learning such as Physics, Biology, and Literature to Investing.  Eliyahu Goldratt for example used his background in Physics to solve practical problems in supply chain management.  But Hagstrom is certainly not the man to do it.  His discussions of Physics, Biology, Psychology, and Literature are superficial at best and I suspect that many professionals in those fields will find them laughable.  Who does he thing he is? John Stuart Mill?<BR>One star is all I can give.  Hagstrom's other books about investing are much better than this one.  Go buy \\"The Warren Buffet Way\\" or the \\"The Warren Buffet Portfolio\\".  Hagstrom did a much better job in those two books than in this one.	2003-08-20
US	49085273	R3KTSKESKM9PSE	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	5	1	3	N	N	one of the funnies book I have ever read	Fascinating!  All finance majors who dream to work on Wall Street must read it.  Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down.  This is one of the funnies books I have ever read.	2003-08-20
US	49085273	R383FZZLN4VTS4	0393314251	978554487	The Mismeasure of Man (Revised & Expanded)	Books	2	42	98	N	N	Gould can't hide his political agenda	Gould is a very confused person!  His ambitious goal was to prove that intelligence is not inherited but a product of environmental factors such as education.  The only way one could do such thing is to find a way to measure intelligence and then prove that better education and better environment can increase it.  This is where Gould's problem comes in.<br />He mocks all attempts to measure intelligence.  The only clear point that he makes throughout the book is that intelligence can't be measured or even defined clearly.<br />I agree but just because we can't measure it, doesn't mean that we didn't inherit it from our parents.  Measurement and heritability are two different things and they must not be confused.  We can't say that the Milky Way Galaxy doesn't exist only because we can't account for every single star, planet, and satellite in it.<br />Gould points out that average height in a third world country may be lower than average height in the US due to poor nutrition.  Then he goes on to say that if people in the third world were as well fed as Americans, their average height may turn out to be higher.  Unconsciously, Gould has destroyed his own argument.  If two populations receive equal amount of nutrition and yet one of them turns out to have lower average height then what else other than genes could account for the difference?<br />He points out that IQ test scores could be increased with more education but then he totally dismisses IQ as an indicator of how smart we are.  He ends up with no argument against heritability.  If we can't measure intelligence then we can't prove that education can increase it, and if we can't prove that education can increase it then we have no argument against heritability.<br />Why can't we turn chimpanzees into PhDs?  Could it be because chimpanzee's genes do not allow them to build sophisticated brains like ours?  And if the sophistication of our brain is determined by our genes then the capacity for high intelligence is clearly inherited.<br />Basketball players are tall not because they practice to be tall but because they inherited a collection of genes, which in the presence of healthy diet can build tall bodies.  Others who eat equally healthy may not grow so tall.  Jumping up and down on a basketball course won't make them any taller than they already are.  I can use many other analogies but I think I proved my point.<br />The only good thing about this book is that it points out the silliness of trying to prove the intellectual superiority of one race over another.  That was the only reason I gave it two stars.clearly inherited.  <BR>Basketball players are tall not because they practice to be tall but because they inherited a collection of genes, which in the presence of healthy diet can build tall bodies.   Others who eat equally healthy may not grow so tall.  Jumping up and down on a basketball course won't make them any taller than they already are.  I can use many other analogies but I think I proved my point.<BR>The only good thing about this book is that it points out the silliness of trying to prove the intellectual superiority of one race over another.  That was the only reason I gave it two stars.	2003-08-20
US	49085273	R1S8QNRL2LVXQS	0072495847	299922730	Principles of Corporate Finance	Books	4	8	9	N	N	NPV rules!	I had to read a few chapters from this book for one of my finance classes. At first I was very skeptical of the text because of the authors' obsession with CAPM, beta, and modern portfolio theory. These concepts make no sense at all. They only serve to illustrate that even the most elegant mathematical models of the world have little practical value if the underlying assumptions are wrong. Very soon, however, my initial prejudice towards the book began to disappear. Eventually, I read the entire textbook, which wasn't required by my instructor. I still believe that CAPM and modern portfolio theory are all wrong but I was fascinated by authors' extensive discussion of NPV and Capital Structure. NPV, indeed, is the only proper way to value any business venture and no compromise can be made in this respect. Brealey &amp; Myers got that one right.<br />The book is well written and most of the examples and explanations are easy to comprehend. I don't understand those reviewers who complain that the book is boring and hard to read. It is not. If it were then I wouldn't spend time reading it during my summer vacation.<br />I was even more puzzled by those reviewers who complain about the lack of rigorous mathematics in the book. As if calculus is the only meaningful way to explain a concept. This may be so in Quantum Mechanics and Chemical Engineering but it is not in Business. Finance is not a science but and art anyway. Warren Buffet once said that:<br />&quot;If calculus were required, I'd have to go back to delivering papers. I've never seen any need for algebra either.&quot;<br />(The gentlemen from England, who complain about the lack of rigorous mathematics, probably have never heard about Warren Buffet. That's sad!)	2002-03-08
US	49085273	RVQQPRH35P77C	0072495847	34698533	Principles of Corporate Finance	Books	4	1	1	N	N	npv	I had to read a few chapters from this book for one of my finance classes. At first I was very skeptical of the text because of the authors' obsession with CAPM, beta, and modern portfolio theory. These concepts make no sense at all. They only serve to illustrate that even the most elegant mathematical models of the world have little practical value if the underlying assumptions are wrong. Very soon, however, my initial prejudice towards the book began to disappear. Eventually, I read the entire textbook, which wasn't required by my instructor. I still believe that CAPM and modern portfolio theory are all wrong but I was fascinated by authors' extensive discussion of NPV and Capital Structure. NPV, indeed, is the only proper way to value any business venture and no compromise can be made in this respect. Brealey & Myers got that one right.The book is well written and most of the examples and explanations are easy to comprehend...	2002-03-06
US	49085273	R265XJ0NKWJ3FQ	0140157352	307913571	Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	good but could have been better	The authors of Getting to Yes are definitely on the right track but they seem to be relying too much on their intuition in drawing conclusions about the proper way to negotiate.  The book would be much better if they could formulate their ideas in terms of game theory.  Their approach towards negotiation is certainly correct but it lacks proper theoretical framework.  It is not enough just to know that cooperation yields better results than confrontation.  Seeking mutual interests may indeed be preferable over playing a hard ball but if a negotiator can't explain this pattern of behavior in terms of a coherent theory then he will remain confined by the limits of his intuition.  Intuition is certainly a great thing to have but it is not enough.  <BR>Game theory can explain the essence of mutual-gain negotiation but it can also reveal its limitations.  I wish the authors could remember the prisoners' dilemma example from their undergraduate economics classes.  Then they could have made the book even more valuable then it is.	2002-03-04
US	49085273	R3RWA9LIS38431	0966446119	559842338	The Essays of Warren Buffett : Lessons for Corporate America	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	the best book on investments	This is not another book about Warren Buffet.  This is Buffet, himself, talking from the pages of the book.  Every investor must read this one.  <BR>The book is a compilation of his famous letters to shareholders.  Cunningham, unlike others, must have realized that only Warren Buffet knows how to invest like Warren Buffet.  So, instead of writing about him and his investment style, he simply allows the reader to learn from the source.	2002-03-03
US	49085273	R193VF5LOT9A49	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	4	1	5	N	Y	breathtaking experience	James Clavell is a great storyteller but he doesn't know much about human psychology. The reader may get the impression from this story that the Japanese are some sort of an alien race of suicidal maniacs. This cannot be farther from the truth. All human beings are genetically close to each other. The self-preservation gene is just as common among the Japanese as it is common among majority of human beings. A person may sacrifice his life for a blood relative (evolutionary scientists have found out that the likelihood of this sacrifice is determined by the percentage of genes shared by the particular individuals), but it is highly unlikely that one will be willing to jump off a cliff to save the life of a cruel overlord. From evolutionary point of view, this doesn't make any sense.<BR>I am not saying that the Japanese don't have their cultural peculiarities but in all cultures we see manifestation of same basic human traits: we value friendship; we love our children; we respect our parents; we love to gossip; we strive to achieve power and accumulate wealth; we love ourselves.<BR>Ritual suicide, or any other form of suicide for that matter, has never been popular in Japan. They may not have had the taboo, which Christianity imposes on self-destruction, but they certainly didn't kill themselves in any greater numbers than westerners did. <BR>It was the patriotic Japanese poets and writers of 1930s who romanticized the ritual suicides. However, it was never widely practiced in Japan at any time. It is just another myth of 20th century pop culture (and so are the horns on Vikings' helmets). <BR>Despite his superficial knowledge of history and human psychology, James Clavell proves to be a great novelist. I couldn't put this book down. The story is simply breathtaking. Read it!	2002-03-03
US	49085273	R1INEOW3IOBO5C	0674004329	266049457	Nisa: The Life and Words of a !Kung Woman	Books	4	15	22	N	N	enjoyable reading	This book is a very enjoyable reading but the reader should be warned not put too much trust in Nisas words.  This is not hard science.  Nisa might have had an agenda of her own.  She might have been careful enough to tell Shostak only what she wanted to hear.  Shostak, after all, have been paying her for those interviews, and if Nisa hadnt fulfilled her expectations then she would have been fired.  Dont we all tell our bosses what they want to hear?  The author admits she interviewed many other women but somehow she didnt like what she heard and decided to drop them.  Maybe Nisa was the only one who was smart enough to manipulate Shostak into continuing to employ her by twisting her stories to make them sound spicier.<BR>It is quite unfortunate that the reader can only guess what were the exact questions asked by the author.  My guess is that the story was heavily manipulated by those questions.  The excessive sexual content of the stories may be nothing more than reaction to Shostaks blunt questions about sex.  In the Epilog of the book Shoskak admits that her reputation among the !Kung was that of a woman who only cares to talk about sex.  <BR>It is quite unfortunate that the book focuses too much on the sexual experiences of !Kung and doesnt reveal much about their psychology.  Even their sexual life is described rather superficially.  We learn nothing about the courtship process among those people.  The reader may get the impression that a !Kung woman will have sex with anyone who brings her meat.<BR>One cannot blame Nisa if she exaggerated in her stories.  She did it for food.  It was up to Shostaks to find a way to collect as much accurate information as possible.  Unfortunately, I was left with the impression that she lacked the necessary skills and experience for the job.  <BR>Nevertheless, I enjoyed reading the book.  It has its own charm.  I hope my criticism will not prevent anyone from reading it because it has a lot to offer.  Thereader can still learn a great deal about the life of the !Kung and maybe something about the way our ancestors lived.  This book is highly recommended for all who are interested in human evolution and psychology.	2002-03-03
US	49085273	R261F6B0L7BH17	0471177504	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way: Investment Strategies of the World's Greatest Investor	Books	4	13	16	N	N	good introduction to value investing	I was fascinated when I first read this book.  It was during my junior year in college when I struggled to comprehend vague ideas such as covariance between stocks, portfolio variance, beta, etc.  This book opened my eyes.  It was like a fresh breath of air.<BR>Hagstrom does a good job at introducing Warren Buffet's way of investing.  The book is a mandatory reading for everyone who wishes to invest money in stocks.  <BR>As other reviewers pointed out, Hagstrom doesn't reveal anything new about Buffet's investment style.  You can find the same information, and much more, from the source: The Berkshire Hathaway Annual Reports.  Hagstrom, however, offers a well-written and fairly accurate presentation of what can be found in Buffet's letters to shareholders.  It is a good introduction to value investing.	2002-02-27
US	49085273	RMWT5I5V5MHT7	0471381985	945463677	Value Investing: From Graham to Buffett and Beyond	Books	2	17	37	N	N	Greenwald doesn't know much about investing.	The back cover of this book modestly proclaims that Mr. Greenwald is the \\"guru of Wall Street's gurus\\". I don't know what kind of gurus there are on Wall Street but if Mr. Greenwald is their mentor then I really feel sorry for them.<BR>The very next day after I finished reading 'Value Investing' I attended a presentation, sponsored by NYSSA's Private Wealth Management Committee, where the author (editor?) presented the book. The presentation confirmed my first impressions: Not only is Mr. Greenwald confused about what Value Investing is but he doesn't seem to understand some fundamental concepts in Finance. For example, he claims that Compaq's major problem stems from the fact that the company put Alta Vista at market value on the balance sheet and then they had to write it off. Hasn't Mr. Greenwald heard about sunk costs? Investing in Alta Vista may have been a poor decision that destroyed shareholders' value but it is something that pertains to the past. It is not something that will continue to influence the firm's operating results in the future.<BR>Greenwald claims that using asset valuation based on reproduction costs provides more accurate estimate of what the company might be worth then using NPV. According to him, NPV is too difficult to estimate and therefore is almost useless. I agree that NPV is difficult to estimate but if it was easy then everyone could be rich, right? In order to do better an individual investor must have a competitive advantage. Competitive advantage is something that one can do but the competition cannot. If balance sheet reading is easier than future cash flow forecasting then more investors should be able to do the former rather than the later. But if many people can do it then it does not give any competitive advantage. Those lucky few who have the exceptional ability to forecast future cash flows will have the competitive advantage and they will be the ones who will make billions of dollars. If Warren Buffet could not do something that is difficult for others then he wouldn't be so rich. The fact that NPV is difficult to estimate does not make it useless. On contrary, the difficulty makes it even more valuable because it gives competitive advantage to those who have the rare gift to see farther than the average individual.<BR>The author claims that markets are not efficient but his idea of market inefficiency is very peculiar. According to him, for example, there cannot be any value in K-Mart because if there were any value in that stock then the horde of analyst, who follow the company, would have discovered it by now. I am not familiar with K-Mart but the statement he made sounds familiar to what the proponents of Efficient Market Hypothesis keep telling: markets are efficient because thousands of bright analysts are working day and night to uncover hidden value. If one can't find value because analysts have already dug out everything there is to know then what makes markets inefficient? Selling stocks to buy Christmas gifts? This can hardly be enough.<BR>The authors do make some good points but overall the book is bad.	2002-02-22
US	49085273	R2NYFQCCPF5SKH	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	3	10	17	N	N	mediocre attempt to prove market efficiency	Depending on where they stand on the issue of Efficient Markets, most readers will either like this book or hate it.  My opinion, however, is somewhere in between.<BR>The Efficient Market Hypothesis is worth studying but, unfortunately, ALL writings on the topic lack scientific objectivity.  From strictly scientific point of view, a hypothesis is one of two or more alternative accounts to a certain phenomena.  The standard procedure of scientific inference, which is used in physics, chemistry, etc., requires a scientist to identify the alternative hypothesis and conduct experiments in order to assert the extent to which each of them holds.  It is imperative that the scientist must remain impartial towards any of the hypothesis under test.  He cannot have preferences.  This is where Mr. Malkiel fails to prove his scientific worth.  It must be noted that the scientific value of an experiment is not correlated to the amount of complicated formulas with Greek letters, which are being used to prove a particular hypothesis.<BR>I have read some of the papers of Mr. Malkiel where he tries to prove efficiency of the markets and correlation of market returns to beta.  They are full of heavy statistics but it seems that the author has been carrying his biases all along.<BR>The book is full of contradictions.  The author asserts that an investor cannot outperform the market persistently over the long run because the market is composed of thousands of brilliant men and women on Wall Street, and no one is smart enough to beat them.  Later on he forgets about the brilliance of those men and women on Wall Street and tells us that the average analyst is exactly what has been implied by the word `average'.  He/She is an individual of average skills and intelligence.  So, let me get this straight: We can't beat the market because we are competing against thousands of brilliant men and women who also happen to be average men and women.  How can one be both brilliant and average at thesame time?<BR>One of the favorite proves of efficient market hypothesis seem to be the coin tossing experiment.  I will not go into details why is this argument false.  This is not the place to go into detailed mathematical explanations.  I will just say that the coin tossing experiment is just another example of how statistics can be used and abused.<BR>Mr. Malkiel is an eloquent writer but his arguments will not hold intense scrutiny.  I don't regret reading the book though because it made me think.  Besides I do believe that the Efficient Market Hypothesis is not a dead theory.  It has many useful implications not only in finance but also in all parts of life.  Unfortunately, the proponents of the hypothesis, such as Mr. Malkiel, do not understand it!  Neither do those who oppose it.	2001-12-18
US	49085273	R15D73KI4U7QNT	0071362932	501349202	Brand Warfare: 10 Rules for Building the Killer Brand	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	the book is worth reading	The main point D'Alesssandro is trying to make is that the brand is the most important asset possessed by any business and all efforts should be channeled towards protecting it.  Sounds reasonable but he fails to explain what is the ultimate purpose having a good brand name.  The reader may get the wrong impression that brands exist for the sake of their own existence.<br />Strong brand name is worth anything only as long as it maximizes the wealth of its owners.  The owners are the shareholders.  Sometimes they would be better off financially if the brand was not too strong.  What is the point of owning Mercedes-Benz if the firm loses money when you can own Honda and have positive gains.  I am making the assumption that Mercedes-Benz is the better brand of the two but this is only for the sake of the argument.  The price tag of the item and its manufacturing quality does not necessary determine the strength of the brand.<br />The author makes some good points though.  His discussion on how management should allocate money to advertisement and other brand building techniques is wonderful.  Despite its weaknesses, this book was worth reading.	2001-12-17
US	49085273	R3GX4AFCK4T0E5	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	3	6	11	N	N	mediocre attempt to prove market efficiency	Depending on where you stand on the issue of Efficient Markets, most readers will either like this book or hate it.  My opinion, however, is somewhere in between.<BR>The Efficient Market Hypothesis is worth studying but, unfortunately, ALL writings on the topic lack scientific objectivity.  From strictly scientific point of view, a hypothesis is one of two or more alternative accounts to a certain phenomena.  The standard procedure of scientific inference, which is used in physics, chemistry, etc., requires a scientist to identify the alternative hypothesis and conduct experiments in order to assert the extent to which each of them holds.  It is imperative that the scientist must remain impartial towards any of the hypothesis under test.  He cannot have preferences.  This is where Mr. Malkiel fails to prove his scientific worth.  It must be noted that the scientific value of an experiment is not correlated to the amount of complicated formulas with Greek letters, which are being used to prove a particular hypothesis.<BR>I have read some of the papers of Mr. Malkiel where he tries to prove efficiency of the markets and correlation of market returns to beta.  They are full of heavy statistics but it seems that the author has been carrying his biases all along.<BR>The book is full of contradictions.  The author asserts that an investor cannot outperform the market persistently over the long run because the market is composed of thousands of brilliant men and women on Wall Street, and no one is smart enough to beat them.  Later on he forgets about the brilliance of those men and women on Wall Street and calls the average analyst is exactly what has been implied by the word `average'.  He/She is an individual of average skills and intelligence.  So, let me get this straight: We can't beat the market because we are competing against thousands of brilliant men and women who also happen to be average men and women.  How can one be both brilliant and average at the same time?<BR>One of the favorite proves of efficient market hypothesis seem to be the coin tossing experiment.  I will not go into details why is argument is false.  This is not the place to go into detailed mathematical explanation.  I will just say that the coin tossing experiment is just another example of how statistics can be used and abused.<BR>Mr. Malkiel is an eloquent writer but his argument will not hold intense scrutiny.  I don't regret reading the book though because it made me think.  Besides I do believe that the Efficient Market Hypothesis is not a dead theory.  It has many useful implications not only in finance but also in all parts of life.  Unfortunately, the proponents of the hypothesis, such as Mr. Malkiel, do not understand it!  Neither do those who oppose it.	2001-12-17
US	49085273	R6Z6YT4FXK1S1	0471244732	506475386	Damn Right! Behind the Scenes with Berkshire Hathaway Billionaire Charlie Munger	Books	3	17	21	N	Y	Will this book disappointe you? Damn Right!	In recent years books about Buffet & Co. started to spring like mushrooms. Publishing books about Berkshire Hathaway's incredible success story is rapidly turning into a lucrative industry. 'Damn Right!' is just another one.<BR>If you expect to learn more about Charlie Muger, Buffet's mysterious sidekick, then you will be very disappointed. Ms. Lowe talks in great detail about Munger's aunts, uncles, parents, grandparents, and their dogs but doesn't say much about him. The author seems to be more interested in Munger's life style and his family than in his approach to business and investing. <BR>Ms. Lowe repeats the story of Berkshire Hathaway in a most superficial way. There are much better books on this topic (see Robert Hagstrom's 'The Warren Buffet Way'). I gave it three stars only because there are some bright spots, such as Appendix D and few interesting facts about the man and his way of thinking.	2001-12-08
US	49085273	R3HHFLOBAGT2KD	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	2	9	17	N	N	Is Mr. Greene a Powerful man?	If Mr. Greene knows so much about power then how come he is not one of the most powerful men on this planet?  At least I don't think he is but then what do I know?<BR>The author illustrates his laws of power by giving examples from the life of historic figures.  The basic problem with this approach is that just because a trick worked once doesn't mean that it will work the second time around.  Furthermore, the examples are taken out of the context.  The reader can't see the big picture.  He is only being told that someone did something and the result helped him gain power.  Was it really that simple?  Did he continue to do the same thing in order to retain power?  We don't get answer to this question.  <BR>It seems to me that Mr. Greene spent too much time reading history and too little time trying to make sense of it.  He approaches the whole process as a zero-sum game.  Either I gain power and you lose or you gain power and I end up the loser.  Mutual benefits are never considered.  Mr. Greene doesn't seem to have read anything about game theory.<BR>The book does have some good points though.  Some of these \\"laws\\" of power do make sense.  Nevertheless the reader should approach this book critically or else he may violate Law # 5 (So much depends on reputation - guard it with your life).	2001-12-05
US	49085273	R2Y8KLP4K04ULB	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	One of the best science books of the Century!	Without any doubt I can say that 'Guns, Germs, and Steel' is one of the best science books of 20th century. Although it is not a history book in the narrow definition of the term History, 'Guns, Germs, and Steel' answers questions about the origins of human civilizations, which no historian has ever been able to answer. <BR>What makes this book unique is the fact that Mr. Diamond does not even bother to recount the histories of early human civilizations. Instead he focuses on the environment where those civilizations developed.<BR>In my opinion, the most remarkable thing about this book is that it demolishes the racist theories of history. It offers convincing explanation about why some societies happened to be more advanced than others.<BR>Guns, Germs, and Steel is a must for every one who is interested in History. It delivers a comprehensive overview of the evolution of human civilization, which no other book has been able to offer yet. Fascinating work!!	2001-12-02
US	49085273	R16GK5Z1HWMEVJ	0374131430	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	2	33	46	N	Y	this book is shallow	This book was a big disappointment. I hoped to learn more about Turkish society and get and insight into the events that led to the formation of modern Turkish nation. I didn't get it. <BR>The chapters in this book remind me of extra long magazine editorials, in which Mr. Kinzer lectures the Turks how to run their nation. \\"The Turkish government should....\\" is the most common phrase in this book. Very little is said about the Turkish people, their culture, history, etc. Only a few paragraphs are devoted to Kemal Ataturk. Little is mentioned about Turkey's relations to its neighbors. A reader may get the impression that the country exists in vacuum, surrounded only by the fears and fobias of its politicians. This book is all about lecturing the Turkish government in what they should do and what they shouldn't do. The style of the author reminds me of the US government rhetoric towards Human Rights in China. For some reason many Americans believe that they know the answer to all the problems in the universe. <BR>Not only Mr. Kinzer gives advices but he claims that he know where most Turks stand on particular issue. They, of course, tend to support his ideas. No evidence is given to confirm his convictions. According to Mr. Kinzer most Turks will always agree with him.<BR>All the information in this 250-page book could have been compiled in 50 pages or less. The book is full of redundancy. The author keeps repeating his opinion on a particular topic over, and over, and over again. It is not enough to say just once what the Turkish government should do but it has to be repeated again and again in every single chapter. <BR>Mr. Kinzer goes as far as to give his own opinion on the intellectual capacities of Turkish politicians. Prime ministers are described as 'unimaginative', 'lacking analytical power' and even as 'lacking intelligence' (p.73). How does he know? One conversation is not enough to determine the intellectual capacity of an individual.<BR>The book lack objectivity but what is even worse, it lacks content. \\"Shallow\\" is the right word to describe it.	2001-11-19
