US	49080275	R1905WGVSO9DYA	B0007XWMZQ	141542110	The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague In History	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Just consider if it happened today!	Just consider for a moment an outbreak of flu like influenza in; let's say for the fun of it, Haskell, Kansas. That's right Haskell, Kansas, in Middle America. And then let's imagine it spreads in days, weeks and less than a month around the world killing as many as 100 Million people. People, who wake up, go to work and die before they come home at night. And you say this can not happen as the government must have a plan, they and the media will give people instructions, keep them out of harms way. But just what if the President of the United States is so distracted on his winning a global war for democracy that he ignores the consequences.Well you say the Media will surly see this as the news story of the day and the press will tell it in a fair and balanced way. But no, the press is censored by the war hawks, no news that undermines national moral can be published. Even Congressman can be thrown in jail for questioning the Presidents war policy. Well enough of this, I have teased you enough. Yet all this happened in 1918 and it is one amazing sequence of events. Barry's book begins with a description of the medical profession in the late 1800s and on a small group of scientist (yes, those nasty scientists) who speculate that germs cause disease. This theory leads to an amazing revolution in medical education and Barry focuses on a small group of doctors who create with John D. Rockefeller's support the John Hopkins University Medical School. Barry bookends his  book with this medical story and the center of the book is the events of the spreading Influenza killing the strongest and youngest first and fastest.  I found he book fascinating if not exactly entertaining. There are parts that are not real page turners but all of it very educational. I wish the narrative could have focused more on one point of view that would have held the narrative together. But with real events that is not always possible so Barry gives us multiple takes, multiple characters to identify with in support of an over objective. It can, and most likely, will happen again.	2005-10-07
US	49080275	R1YNRKTNXFU27D	0743246349	674767143	Heaven Lake: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable if not a great novel	John Dalton has written an excellent first novel that I found a bit uneven  In structure but always entertaining with several surprise plot twists along the way. Our hero of the tale is Vincent how as a recent college grad volunteers for Christian work in Taiwan. But this is no story about faith above all, but instead it is about character. How does Vincent develop character is what Dalton is about here. Vincent is really sheltered sole although not completely an innocent when he arrives in country and finds he can not live without making a few bad value judgments. He is turned off by the hard core believer who is sent to help him and attracted by friendship to a pot smoking Scotsman  Alex he shares a rooming house with. The central plot point of the book is that Vincent accepts a mission to marry a mainland girl from a remote village so she can get out of the country to marry Mr. Gwa, who presents himself as a wealthy businessman who wants to learn English. As far fetched as this whole idea goes, and to why Vincent would say yes to such a mission is the spine of the narrative.  I recommend the book and only have the following reservations. I found the center section a bit slow and heavy on traveling situations that although entertaining did not drive the story forward. And I found the ending less than satisfying although I am not sure I could come up with one that was any better.  This is an enjoyable if not a great novel.	2005-08-28
US	49080275	R25ULQTSTKD9E3	1400043417	268437494	Birds Without Wings	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Inventive and marvelously readable	I simply implore you to read this epic masterpiece. Its story details in both a grand and small way how a village must cope with the coming of the \\"modern\\" world and the fall of the Ottoman Empire. De Bernieres last book, CORNELLIS MANDOLIN was also a masterpiece (forget about the movie please), and I think this new volume is even more powerful;  Filled as it is with lush language, a multitiude of fully developed characters all as vivid as your best friend. This is a bit of history each of us must and should know about as it is a disaster caused by outsiders and an emerging new world order. Like Dr. Zhivargo, these villagers just wish to live their lives, worship, and work and enjoy the beauty that is this are of the Empire. They all get along and our tolerant of each other, Christian and Muslim, Greek and Armenian. Only a few dream dreams of old empires lost. The narrative drive is all Mr. De Bernieres but he does it though many voices as most chapters are told by characters in the story. One even told by a drowning man while he is drowning; quite effective, inventive and marvelously readable. And yes, like real life, there are frustrations as character come and go and sometimes you never do learn their fates. I would venture to say this book has to be destined to be one of the great books about the early twentieth century. (It reminded me, in part of a cross between Sebastian Faulks masterful BIRDSONG and Ursula Heigi's excellent STONES FROM THE RIVER.)	2005-08-01
US	49080275	R1WKAAMX4C779I	0345455819	955344687	1968: The Year That Rocked the World	Books	5	12	15	N	N	The best and worst of times well told and interesting reading	This is an exciting and important book that both entertains and enlightens ones perspective on this year in American History whether you lived it or need to understand it. At the end of the book Mark Kurlansky says many people who lived it can today recognize other \\"68ers\\". I certainly could recognize my self at 24 years old in 1968. That year I got married, was reclassified 1-A and got drafted, shook Bobby Kennedy's hand two days before he was killed. As Dickens would say, it was the best of times and the worst of times. The interesting thing Kurlansky does is put the student movement and anti-war movements in more of an international and cultural contex. The single unifying theme is that the culture in all countries was very authoritarian; government and the ruling generation were neither interested nor flexible about cultural change and were wrapped up in taking sides in the cold war. (Just think of France and de Gaulle.) Then along comes a new generation, who might be recognized as libertarians on steroid, who questioned and wanted more tolerance and freedom. A cultural revolution that saw war and was against it, saw injustice in race relations and wanted to correct them, saw women as second class homemakers only and wanted to liberate them, and then saw personal freedom as a core principle. In the United States these new values conflicted with both Democratic Liberals and Republican of the new right which grew in support of Nixon as a negative response to these anti-authoritarian values.  In all this you can see the makings of today's Blue and Red states and the repressive culture of Southern Conservatism that runs though much of today's Republican Party. Kurlansky covers a wide range of countries and movements, but most compelling is his telling of the rise and fall of Alexander Dubcek and the fall of his new Democratic Czechoslovakian Communist Party. The reaction to this from the extreme authoritarian Soviet Union was an invasion which turned out to be a disaster for all parties. And you see the seeds for the eventual fall of the Soviet Union. This is a brilliant and entertaining book. (I read 1968 just after reading David McCullough's 1776 which is also about a generational divide and people with passion who were willing to fight authoritarianism. I wonder where and who these people are today?)	2005-07-26
US	49080275	R101G0J4QWZXPB	1569473692	59677973	When Red is Black	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Still a fun run, and I am looking forward to next book with Inspector Chen and friends	This is the third book by Mr. Xiaolong in what one might call the Inspector Chen Cao series. Chen is chief of special squad of Shanghai Police and has his trusty right hand man Sergeant Yu. Although still not up to the strength of the first book in this series, Death of a Red Heroine which I highly recommend, this book is much better than the second, A Loyal Character Dancer. The main reason is this book gets back to what is most impressive about the series and it is not the rather routine type case and detective work. But rather, Xiaolong puts his characters into the early 1990 with the hangover from the cultural revolution hanging over the characters past and the new capitalism of Shanghai turning their view of society, culture, and status on it's head. Without giving away the meaning of the title... the Cultural Revolution and the side you took during that era clearly mark your future and view of the new economic order. All fun and interesting stuff. After three books you do feel you know the characters and they are fun to be with and see how they cope. The mystery solved here is interesting in that it sets up a view into the cultural war being fought now in China, but it is not a compelling reason to be drawn to this book. Although the case is fresh in that it is Detective Yu and not Inspector Chen who takes charge and there is a large roll for Yu's wife in all this too. Much fun, and makes you feel your getting to know the politics, culture, and economic situation in Shanghai all through the eyes of some enjoyable characters. And lastly, could the real case being solved in all these books be that of who, why and how Chen comes to grips with the Special Secrets squad that keeps getting in the middle of all his work. I am looking forward to the next in the series and suggest you read these in order.	2005-07-11
US	49080275	R3PDAVSYGMCPON	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The make or break it year for the Continental Army	I was a bit skeptical about reading McCullough's short history of the American Revolutionary year of 1776. After all I had just read Joseph Ellis's Washington biography and much of David Hackett Fischer's excellent Washington Crossing and what could McCullough add to these works. The answer is not much, except a grand personal perspective that makes for downright great reading. You feel McCullough is in the chair next to you explaining the events of that year and what they meant to both sides. His descriptions of British politics and anti-war opinion seemed to demonstrate to me how even in 1776 a minority of anti-war members of the British Parliament knew it was a vane effort to fight this war. And yet, I think many first time readers to the early days of the continental army and George Washington's leadership will be shocked at how poor his military judgments were and how close the \\"rebels\\" were to losing the war. In fact the vast majority of Americans were Tory's actually supporting the British. I recommend the book highly if your looking of a great introductory overview to the story of the Continental Army, warts and all. A grand story well told.	2005-07-11
US	49080275	R2Q2FCCESK0U0P	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Recorded reading by Gianfranco Negropnte is recommended.	Ned Kelly and his gang are a powerful myth in Australia. In the 1870s Ned Kelly an Irish youth reluctantly takes up a life of crime and becomes in effect a huge media story.  A Robin Hood type character. He finds himself in the middle of the culture clash and resentments caused by the cruel and discriminatory English rulers Vs the downtrodden Irish bush farmers. In a country that was founded by convicts one wonders why Kelly takes on such a mythic statue. This book, a novel, goes a long ways to offer up motive for Kelly in Australia's ruthless history of class warfare. Carey has taken a 50 page letter written by the real Kelly with it's long run on sentences, no commas, change of subject mid sentence and incorporated this style into his fictional Kelly's voice. The book's structure is the discovery of many other parcels of text written (Chapters) all written in the first person by our fictional Kelly, all in this fast paced run on style without punctuation.   A few years ago I tried to read the book and just found it's lack of punctuation to difficult to keep up with. I'm not a patient enough reader to take on the reading text written in this fashion. I put the book down in frustration. Then recently I discovered, in the Library, a fully unabridged audio version on CDs. I listened to the first 200 pages on a recent round trip drive to Las Vegas. The reader, Gianfranco Negroponte does a marvelous job of reading, inserting the commas; the dialog comes alive with his performance, as does Ned Kelly's voice. The reading has the feel your sitting around the campfire hearing a tall tale told by the practitioner. I finished listening to the tapes while following along with the book's text and some sections I just read without the audio. But it was the audio translation I am reviewing here and recommending to you. A marvelous way to enjoy what I found to be an awkward book to read. The recording also has an interesting hour-long interview with Peter Carey on the last CD, well worth a listen as he explains why he structured the book the way he did, and how much of the story he fictionalized (quite a bit actually).	2005-05-29
US	49080275	RSM2DG2ROY7FZ	1569473412	374592223	A Loyal Character Dancer (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	More case and less political atmosphere	Having thoroughly enjoyed the first book in this series, Death of a Red Heroine, I jumped right into reading the sequel. This second visit with Chief Inspector Chen and his loyal deputy Yu is fun and the case even more interesting than that in the Red Heroine as it involves gangs and illegal immigration from China to the United States. But what I really liked in Red Heroine was the interesting group of characters, the descriptions of life and political atmosphere of 1990 Shanghai.  Nothing in Character Dancer add to the first book in this area as it is not fresh and the group of characters are given minor rolls. New twist is that Inspector Chen must work with a United States Marshal, a woman named Catherine Rohn. This I suspect was a plot devise to give some dialog to the management of U.S. / China relations. The problem here is that the Rohn character is so underwritten she becomes more of wooden prop to hold up the narrative. And lastly, I am not a big fan of mysteries that end which several pages of the brilliant inspector explaining all that happened and perhaps why.  All that said if you liked the character of Inspector Chen and a book more aimed at the case than the character I think you will get some entertainment value. I do plan to read the next book in the series and hope it returns to the roots of Red Heroine.	2005-05-27
US	49080275	R3GK4Z7UWU5ITK	1569472424	377475451	Death of a Red Heroine (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Decline of the old guard	I am not normally a fan of mysteries as a category of fiction but my wife makes up for my lack of interest with stacks of mysteries around the house. This first book by Qiu Xiolong struck my interest with its setting in Shanghai, China in early 1990 a year after Teanammen Square.  The book does not disappoint; it is a splendid mix of historical fiction, political and social observation, with a newly appointed Chief Inspector Chen who is a wonderfully fully developed character (as are all the characters in the book). You're not going to read this because of the case, a rather traditional murder. Although the victim, the red heroine of the title, is compelling because she was a \\"model worker\\" member of the \\"Party\\" and thus a part of the elite. All this Xiaolong points out comes with a price. The fun begins as The Party, via Chen's superiors are all over him and his partner Yu attempting to direct, control, delay and halt the investigation to protect the Party, and thus the country.  How this all plays out in the plot are the twists and turns one expects from a good mystery.  The book's structure is basically just a police procedural.  However, this outstanding book is much more as it delivers the reader into the world of 1990 Shanghai with details in character and environment in a strange landscape of a political and economic system in a paranoid transition. The basic plot point is the decline of privileges of the old guard and their sense of entitlement vs. capitalism that Chen and his generation realize requires fairness and justice if it is to work.  My only negative comments are that the actual murder case and motive is not that creative although it works and services the story. And, don't your just hate it when a compelling character and love interest, in this case a local reporter named Wang, just keeps calling Chen and....... (Well I won't spoil it for you except to say in my opinion Xialong missed the boat on the Wang/Chen relationship).  I can not convey howmuch I both enjoyed this book and how I am sure you will too.	2005-05-13
US	49080275	R1NNS95W0OMTMO	0618104690	546978147	Bury the Chains: Prophets and Rebels in the Fight to Free an Empire's Slaves	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Should be a book every High School student should read!	Two things brought me to read this excellent book by Adam Hochschild. First, his previous book is a favorite. King Leopold's Ghost about the Belgium King Leopold II's plunder of the Belgium Congo, which helped set the stage for the tragedy of present central Africa.  Second, I enjoyed meeting Mr. Hochschild at the recent Los Angeles Times Book Festival held at UCLA. He discussed his new book, Bury the Chains in a fascinating and interesting way. What I was afraid might be a cold over reaching history lesson, instead offers riveting portraits into the several main characters who over some 51 years fought to bring down the institution of slavery in Britain. All accomplished without civil war. The narrative drives with unique details and a main character, Thomas Clarkson who as a young man enters a Latin essay contest and wins first price for his essay on ending the slave trade. He then joins up with a group of Quakers and as an evangelical Anglican Clarkson begins to build a \\"band of brother\\" that develops and first implements many of modern day political techniques, such as posters, boycotts, and a modern sense of how to use the media of the day. But this narrative is more than Clarkson's story as Hochschild weaves stores of many interesting participants, both for and against the end of slavery. This book can easily lead to more research and readings as it is meant to be only an overview, told with a journalistic eye. For example, the chapters of the slave rebellions are interesting, but as you are reading your well aware that there must be whole books written on just one revolt. I would recommend this book be used in any high school and college classes on World or British History, it might become the best textbook any student might read.  (Also, I read that some reviewers found Hochshild to have a bigotry against Christianity, which they say undermined the book. I am at a complete loss to understand where one would derive such a conclusion. Perhaps it's in the factthat Hochschild clearly states that it was each person's human empathy, which in the end won the victory over slavery, not some blind hope in sacred texts. I don't see that as bigotry, but clearly true as nothing in the history in the progress of human rights has happened unless there is recognition via human empathy that change is needed.) Read and decide for yourself.	2005-05-08
US	49080275	R18TJDE3E7LTLF	0767911784	137552265	Conspiracy of Fools: A True Story	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	This is a real Water Cooler book!	The title also reads, \\"Behind thick corporate walls, in the shadows of Wall Street, along the corridors of political power, a scandal is brewing....\\" This is a real water cooler book. Anyone who works for a large corporation has to recognize this cast of characters; the over paid CEO (in this case Ken Lay) who does not sweat the details and is more of a press the flesh relationship builder; the COO (in this case Jeff Skilling) who is over his head and can't ask the right questions; the under qualified CFO (in this case Andrew Fastow) who is both a crook and incompetent; and the real villain of the piece the Board of Directors who voted to let Fastow get away with breaking corporate conflict of interest rules. This cast is joined by literally dozens of other players, all highly compentent and sure as rain that something is not right at the top. A most compelling example is Jim Bouillion who bought Enron's insurance, did his job well and protected the company only to lose everything and learn his management thought a monkey could do his job. Everything is here in a richly layer narrative that reads like a classic American Business novel. What's wrong with evaluating employees on a curve, it's here. What's wrong about a company culture that only rewards results and not the truth, it's here. What happens to those who can't say yes to the boss, it's here. Riveting stuff and a smashing good read. You will learn all you need to know about Enron, government oversight, politics, and the rib off of share holders by everyone including a monumentally incompetent Board of Directors (these folks make the Board at Disney, \\"Disney War\\" look like positive roll models. Don't be put off by the book's length, I assure you that if your interested at all in the subject, at all in business, at all in how you can game the system and only get 10 years in prison, this is your book to enjoy.	2005-04-27
US	49080275	R1U9KNNEM1WV2N	0684809931	307786913	Disney War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"Cult of the personality " as a management style	Stewart's book is an entertaining history of the personality conflicts (with almost everyone) and dubious management by Michael Eisner. Full of gossip and amazing personal details, the story begins with Eisner's takeover of the company and his first ten years of excellent results (or were they Katzenberg's results?) all of which appears to end with the death of Frank Wells in a helicopter crash in 1994. With Eisner left alone to manage the company he implemented his cult of the personality style of management. Eisner's worse traits took control of the company culture as he refused to share credit, or give credit, bullied managers, fired anyone who was viewed as a successor or contributed anything to results. It's almost like he wished certain people to whom he delegated would fail. Over and over again he is caught saying if he only had more time he could turn this or that (ABC) around, but he did not want to undermine his managers. You read this wondering why did it take till 2002 for some on the Disney board to begin to rebel and ask for Eisner's head? But Eisner ran roughshod over the Board. The story of what he did to Andrea Van de Kamp to remove her from the board is just awful. And then the real highlight of the narrative is Eisner's buying the Fox Family channel for $5.3 BILLION without any plan or due diligence, only to find out that months later the purchase was worth maybe $4 BILLION less. Eisner is the dark prince of ego and arrogance and some of his management team come off little better as they are more concerned for their own welfare than the companies employees or shareholders. In the end the one thing that struck me as most interesting was that 72.5% of Disney employees voted via their 401K shares to remove Eisner in the shareholder revolt. Eisner had the hearts and minds of only 27.5% of those who worked for him. This all certainly is a major blow to those who would push the myth that business experience is a must in political leaders.  If you learnnothing else this book demonstrates the consequences of not doing your homework, and having a leader who does not ask questions or listen to those closer to a given transaction. A leader that has all the answers is no leader. How many other CEOs could learn from Eisner's mistakes.	2005-04-11
US	49080275	RUHUMBGKOXZVZ	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Grand and wonderful!!!	There is no doubt that Mr. Massie is the greatest non-fiction writer today. This volume and his Peter the Great (which I read last year) are just marvelous examples of a writer at the top of his game. I have not read his book, \\"Dreadnought\\" and although Castles of Steel is a sequel of sorts I found it a great stand-alone history. But with Massie, you get more than history. He does an excellent job of personalizing each of the participants, from the British Winston Churchill, Admirals Jellicoe and Beatty to the German Kaiser William, and Admirals Scheer and Hipper. Each chapter is like a short story well constructed to give the reader an overall perspective of events in both personal and global terms. The German's on again; off again use of submarines is presented extremely well. Even the first humorous and ineffective submarine counter offensive by the British finds a home in this history. The British, it appears, assigned teams to small boats who attempted to find German periscopes and then tried to paint the class black, or haplessly tried putting a satchel over the scope, or finally attempted to pound out the scopes glass with a hammer. Churchill we learn had a plan where he spent millions of pounds to create imitation battle ships that were ineffective because they could not keep up with the fleet. Amazing details are presented; such as how just a few knots speed advantage won specific battles. This is truly a fascinating and compelling history with both a global and personal reach. Having just read Diana Preston's wonderful \\"Lusitania\\" this volume, Castles of Steel, was a great way to put the Lusitania sinking into even an even wider historic context. I recommend Mr. Massie's monumental achievement to you, even if you are not at all interested in military history.  This is history as high adventure.	2005-03-22
US	49080275	R14VKFE9NOYXUM	0425189988	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another First Rate Tragedy well told	This is the fourth book by Diana Preston which I have read, and it is her best. My other favorite by her was about the Robert Scott race to the South Pole, titled A First Rate Tragedy. It appears Preston writes more vividly when it comes to tragedy. Her book, Lusitania, is so well organized and such an outstanding personal and historic story that it reads as exciting adventure full of interesting questions. Why did the passengers and crew sail when they were warned almost everywhere that they would be attacked? Why did they assume they could not sink or be torpedoed (after all the Titanic had not long before had gone down? What was the crew in U-20 thinking attacking an unarmed neutral passenger liner? Or was she unarmed? What was her Cargo? And the people, from an old school Captain who did not believe the ship would sink until his ankles got wet, to multi millionaire Cornelius Vanderbilt who became a hero as he stoically went about helping others knowing he planned to go down with the ship. The middle chapters of the book, Part two called Final crossing and Part three titled An Ocean Red with Blood are compelling reading. Every paragraph stuffed with personal anecdotes that create a vivid picture of panic, guilt, ignorance, injustice, accident, error, heroism, luck, and mostly death. The final death toll was 1,198 dead plus three stowaways, including 128 Americans. And the sad picture is that of 129 children on board, 94 had been killed, including 35 of 39 babies. And one woman gave birth during the sinking. Compelling reading, well researched, and even a page-turner. Good work Diana Preston!	2005-02-17
US	49080275	R2T9ZP5GZH91Q3	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Beach read.... and it is fun!	This is fun, fast read. a good story, very visual, and shall I dare say \\"beach\\" read. (Although I read it on the airplane.) Fun and it is a page-turner. I picked it up because later this year we plan to visit Pompeii and I thought it would be a fun way to get introduced to the site. This is not much of an historical novel, but interesting the way Harris weaves the story around the various Roman cities.  <br />I liked it a lot better than Night Fall the last \\"thriller\\" I read. <br />	2005-01-21
US	49080275	R2U4NPVRRW7WCE	0802714129	689306465	Cook : The Extraordinary Voyages of Captain James Cook	Books	4	2	4	N	N	As viewed from both sides	Nicholas Thomas's vivid, interesting and anthropologically focused book is clearly not a biography of Captain James Cook. I found this a surprise, but as Thomas says in his rather obtuse 40-page introduction we meet up with Cook on these pages already 39 years old. He is about to take the first of his three voyages to the Pacific. The last ends tragically with his death at the hands of the Pacific People he both appear to admire and study. He even forgave them their reported cannibalism when they ate a number of his sister ships crew.  <br /> <br />One would like to ask the American publisher (Walker) why they felt the need to change the books title from it's English edition title, \\"Discoveries: The Voyages of Captain James Cook\\" to COOK and then add \\"extraordinary\\" (although extraordinary they assuredly were). The English title is more apt in conveying Thomas's narrative achievement. For his volume is a compelling overall review and analysis of Cook's discoveries.  <br /> <br />Thomas, an anthropology professor uses all available sources to view events from both sides of the beach as he studies, in part, the pacific people's reaction to being visited. Cultural differences and social relationships, even those among the crew and between Cook and the onboard \\"scientists\\" are the primary focus of the book.  There is very little, if any, discussion of what it was like to live on the ships, and the sailing of them.  Or for that matter what drove Cook to do what he did. Although Thomas does take issue with other authors that seem to make an issue of Cook's motive or psychological state. Perhaps making him much more complex than he really was.  <br /> <br />Thomas's achievement is that he has expanded his narrative beyond the stoic Captain Cook. For example the first part of the book seems to be more about Joseph Banks, the voyages \\"scientist\\". And later by his replacement in the second voyage, George Foster. The roll played by art and the romantic images of William Hodgesand Jack Weber. (One needs note that Thomas's narrative on their paintings is often accompanied by the actual drawing on the same page as the text. The book is very finely published and also includes very excellent maps.)  <br /> <br />I found it interesting that Thomas ends his book bring the reader to the modern reenacting of Cook's visit to Cooks Town in Australia. The site he had reached to repair his ship after almost being lost on the Barrier Reef. This event is also very humorously dealt with in Tony Horwitz's fabulously entertaining \\"Blue Latitudes: Boldly going where Captian Cook has gone before\\" which is a great companion read to learn how the islands are today some 235 years after Cooks landings.  <br /> <br />It took me a while to get into this COOK, but eventually I really enjoyed this journey with Captain Cook and those we meet via Nicholas Thomas honest research. <br /> <br />	2005-01-17
US	49080275	R377HK8FYAPJPJ	0375403973	608378585	Emma's War: An aid worker, a warlord, radical Islam, and the politics of oil--a true story of love and death in Sudan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Emma of Sudan	This is an extraordinary book about two women told against the history of the Sudan Civil War, the longest lasting in African history. The first women is EMMA McCune, a beautiful displaced sole who discovers she has the \\"sole of Sudan\\" and desires to help as an aid worker. The second woman is the author Deborah Scroggins who interweaves her own memoirs as a journalist covering the war into a complex and detailed narrative. And finally this is a great overview to the whole of Sudan history going back to the death of Chinese Gordon in Khartoum.  Emma eventually leaves aid work, marries an already married warlord who we discover is in collusion with the Islamic government he declares his enemy.  (Did Emma know?) The whole book is like a house of mirrors demonstrating that aid is always political and in many cases resented and ineffective.  (What can the west do for the continent?) Famine we learn is also often used as a political weapon and may in the end be all about \\"the oil\\" and/or personal power.  To a small degree Paul Theroux covers some of these same topics in his splendid travel book on Africa, \\"Dark Star\\". But if you want to understand the horn of Africa, as told by someone who experienced it, and is also an unusually good writer with a marvelous adventure story thrown in then move this book up on your stack of reading material.  I also recommend it to anyone interested in Osama bin Laden, and a view of one root of Islamic fundamentalism took hold and how this may be part of the \\"blow back\\" we are experiencing. This is just an excellent book. What is it about the English that they are drawn to such places?  People like Richard Burton, Gordon of Khartoum, Lawrence and now Emma. (I understand there are plans to make the book into a movie with Nicole Kidman playing Emma.)	2005-01-05
US	49080275	R3ER0TP880KJYW	0375414126	96298221	John James Audubon: The Making of an American	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A French American Icon to be proud of	This is an extremely well written, entertaining must read biography about an American Icon.  An Icon who was, in fact, an illegitimate French man born in Haiti who came to America via France to escape the Napoleon military draft. It is, of course, interesting that today when we seem to dislike everything French that this amazing, artistic early American icon was very French.  Here we experience how Audubon's personal character is developed as he transforms himself through family, his passion for birds and art into that icon of the American character.  Rhodes Biography of Audubon highlights Audubon the woodsman (every bit Daniel Boone's counterpart) and the artist/naturalist who created  \\"The Birds of America\\" drawings and study. Rhodes says of this accomplishment: \\"When he set out to create a monumental work of art with his own heart and mind and hands, he succeeded - A staggering achievement, as if one man had single-handedly financed and built an Egyptian pyramid.\\" Rhodes points out the cost to Audubon to produce \\"The Birds of America\\" was $115,640 (in today's dollars about $2,141,000). What sets Rhodes study apart is his wonderful way of taking the reader on Audubon's life's journey and the journey of his young adoptive country, the United States.  Rhodes titles his book \\"The making of an American\\" but this could easily have been the making of America. For Audubon traveled and experienced everything from failed business, a major depression, the nations largest earthquake, a major cholera epidemic, the large scale decimation of the carrier pigeons, forests, buffalo, and American Indians. He also met Presidents, the Queen while maintaining a family and marriage under incredibly difficult conditions.  The heart of the biography is Audubon's relationship with his wife, Lucy and his two boys. Husband and wife were separated for many years as Audubon traveled to new business ventures, did his field studies on the side of making a living, and traveled back and forth across the Atlantic (I think I counted was at least 10 times in his lifetime). Yet Audubon and Lucy wrote letters and Audubon's writing is so modern and readable that they breathe life into the love affair of his life and Rhodes biography of the man. Also, let me congratulate the publisher Knopf, who have published a quality book which is getting rarer these days. The book is printed on excellent paper, with remarkably clear drawings inserted into the text, and several color plates of Audubon's drawings. My only complait is that they left off the Plate numbers of these drawings which  would have made it easy to compare them when they are mentioned in the text. A small and minor isssue in a book I highly recommend.	2004-12-20
US	49080275	R2ZPPKR7LABYTW	0679759409	452696828	Companero: The Life and Death of Che Guevara	Books	3	32	43	N	N	Who was the real Ernesto Guevara de la Serna y Llosa. Che?	Seeing the recent movie \\"The Motorcycle Diaries\\" brought me to read this biography of Che Guevara. I highly recommend the film, and with reservations recommend Castaneda's biography of Che.  At the time, I did little research into which Che biography would be \\"best\\" so I can not reference other Che biographies.  I found this in many passages a tiring read, especially in the middle section, which covers Che's career as Cuba's lead economic bureaucrat.<br /><br />The book does not idealize Che although I suspect the author admires at least many of Che's humanitarian beliefs. Castendeda is excellent at pointing out a lot not to like about Che and his activities.  It portrays Che as an enigma, as a very intuitive mind with an idealists somewhat naive view of human nature.<br /><br />Che wanted a better world for the underclass, and yet Che determines to do build this better world not by the practice of medicine, he was a doctor, but by insisting that only by violent revolution can it be achieved.<br /><br />Castandeda begins with a great review of Che's early life, his asthma (he fought being a constant prisoner to the constraints of the decease), and influence of his mother, and ends with a very interesting interpretation of why he has become a cultural icon.  He follows Che on a path to what Castaneda calls his  \\"Christ like\\" status in death.  He places Che in context of the history of the times and within each setting, what Argentina was like when he grew up, Cuba when he fought by Castro's side, the later the \\"failures\\" in the Congo and Bolivia.<br /><br />I was rather surprised to find myself seeing Che as a character in Woody Allen's \\"Bananas\\" film as I read of Che's actual efforts to export revolution to the Congo and Bolivia. He seemed to assume a lot and his band of brothers in both the Congo and Bolivia was unbelievably small. For all Che's reading, apparent high IQ, he seems to have had no sense of what each of these country's underclass's and cultures wanted, needed, or would accept. He made the false assumption they would take up arms in unity. This Castaneda points out was not the case, and I kept seeing that the U.S. view of a monolithic communist conspiracy was indeed a myth as Che could not even pull together the China or Soviet factions to support his revolutionary efforts.<br /><br />I hate to claim a book is over detailed, because I did find many of the extensive footnotes of interest, and helpful. But this is really a scholarly work and as such lacks much in the way of entertaining writing. I'm glad I read the book, and recommend it to those interested in the subject.ures wanted, needed, or would accept. He made the false assumption they would take up arms in unity. This Castaneda points out was not the case, and I kept seeing that the U.S. view of a monolithic communist conspiracy was indeed a myth as Che could not even pull together the China or Soviet factions to support his revolutionary efforts.  <br /> <br />I hate to claim a book is over detailed, because I did find many of the extensive footnotes of interest, and helpful. But this is really a scholarly work and as such lacks much in the way of entertaining writing. I'm glad I read the book, and recommend it to those interested in the subject.	2004-12-11
US	49080275	R3TFM8WMHFMGH0	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Night Fall, falls short	Demille is bottom line, a guilty pleasure. His books offer a fast, often page turning read with smart dialog and exciting plot twists. His best book was The Gold Coast and his worst was The Generals Daughter. I liked his last book, Up Country a lot until it's awful ending. In Night Fall Demille brings back the smart talking tough ex-cop John Cory from Plum Island (a good fun read) and The Lions Game (Demille's best since Gold Coast). (You can just see Bruce Wills in the roll.) Unfortunately Night Fall is slow to develop with the first 100 pages a bore as he brings the reader up to date on the Flight 800 crash.  In Lions Game Demille's fictional terrorist attacks were more menacing and inventive. In Night Fall there is little threat to carry the plot forward unless you're a conspiracy fan. And Night Fall has an ending telegraphed so far in advance that it is totally unmoving. Why does Demille who can write such fun and interesting plots not come up with better endings? So it appears, from my expressed disappointment in this review that I did not like the book. Well yes and no. Yes, as I said, Demille is a guilty pleasure and the book is entertaining enough.  But this is not close to his best work.  So I will be looking for his next and hopefully better novel next time.	2004-12-04
US	49080275	R3MGRCGJ3FYD16	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Lord Jim of modern Afghanistan	I had this book recommended to me and was reluctant to begin as I recalled reading a poor review or two. Everyone stayed determined that I read it, and while looking for a book to read by the pool on vacation I began Hosseini's first novel. And like another of my favorite fist novels, The Piano Tuner last year I found I really enjoyed the book. Now I will tell you that the story does have several plot twists that many times telegraphs where the story is going and maybe Hosseini  pours on the redemption theme a bit heavy. But hey, it worked for me and I enjoyed the ride and the insight. Here again is a novel with an interesting narrator whose behavior is less than admirable. Given his \\"Lord Jim\\" moment he too pulls away and lives with the torment and desire for a second chance. So yes, you know where all this is leading as the novel sort of writes it's self. One point I think is worth making is that Hosseni is an Afghanistan and the book is about Afghanistan and its culture and its impact with American culture. This brings an interesting perspective that holds a plot that one might suggest could translate anywhere. I recommend it for a fun and enjoyable read. It will be interesting to see what Kahaled Hosseini comes up with next.	2004-11-12
US	49080275	R1R6KXX5HG8BYA	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	4	13	24	N	N	An enjoyable book with shortcomings	I was able to view an exhibit of Washington's papers on exhibit at New York's J.P. Morgan Library a few years ago. Apparently Joseph Ellis uses his reading of \\"The Papers of George Washington\\" as the basic research material for this excellent, all be it short, biography of Washington. Ellis attempts to get into his subjects inter life through well-argued speculation. He points out that Washington, unlike our modern Presidents, did not self justify by invoking the name of God, but saw things as \\"destiny\\" and \\"providence\\". Washington died; Ellis maintains \\"a Roman Secular rather than a Christian Saint\\". The book is fast paced and Ellis covers a lot of ground in few words. He gives the reader an overall topic or offers an interesting question and then drills down to offer up the sole of the topic and then moves on. The reader picks up lots of tid-bits of information. Did you know for example that Washington's greatest wealth came in the form of land in Ohio as gifts from the British government for his service in the French and Indian wars? That if Washington had not sided against the British and the rebellion not succeeded that Washington would have lost these valuable tracks of land as the British had planed to seed the land back to the Indian nations. Ellis does an effective job of tracking Washington's political development into a full-fledged Federalist and outlines his slow burn, which develops into a tremendous contempt for Jefferson and Madison's \\"Republican\\" anti-government views.  And Ellis commends Washington's very tortured delayed decision to free his slaves in his will, thus securing a lasting legacy. So what's not to like? I personally feel is important that a first class biography provide a sense of the social, economic and overall world the subject lived in. And this is where I believe Ellis let's the reader down. It's fair to say this was not his intention in such a short biography, but for me I could have taken more pages to get a more rounded view ofWashington's world. Also, remarkably Martha Washington burned all of her and George's letters, leaving no real history of their relationship. Unfortunate, Ellis points out. And would it not have been wonderful to have an idea what the nature of their relationship was? Overall this is an excellent book and remarkable that so much could be covered in so few pages. (I might point out that this is the only Biography of Washington I have read, so I can not compare it to say Richard Brookhiser's \\"Founding Father\\" which I understand is excellent.)	2004-11-11
US	49080275	R2STOTOP44C6O7	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A gene gender identy family saga to enjoy!	This novel won the Pulitzer Prize but really caught my eye with its first sentence. \\"I was born twice: first, as a baby girl: and then again, as a teenage boy...\\" What a hook for a great narattor who tells his own gene history back to his grandparents growing up in Greece.  Should not a great novel make you view the world through a different perspective? The family holds back a secret, which is not really all that secret in the narrative, but it's impact and the characters all seem to come alive and jump off the page. Eugenides tells the family saga with much humor and insight and for me the book only felt flat and somewhat long and stretched in \\"book three\\" where Calliope enters puberty and her (his) act of discovery happens oh so slowly. This section seems written in a completely different tone and with little humor. I would suggest some editing would have helped because the ending is triumphal. I recommend it, not the perfect novel it could have been, but so well written in parts and so entertaining that I know you will be also be recommending it to others.	2004-10-25
US	49080275	R2BCEWQATU22R3	1592284302	963873030	The Cloud Garden: A True Story of Adventure, Survival, and Extreme Horticulture	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	Interesting story of survival lacks suspense	The book's topic caught my interest as did a good magazine review. (The copy we purchased from Amazon.com was without pages 118 to 179 so check before you begin to read. Amazon.com was great and sent us a replacement volume which also was missing the same pages. We finally found a bookstore that exchanged it for a correct version.) The story here is about two young men who choose to hike into the guerrilla held The Darien Gap between Panama and Columbia. The gap where there is no longer any Pan-American Highway. At the end of their telling  (I'm not giving anything away, after all the authors wrote the book so you know they survived) the authors make the comment that the British press caught on to the story because of  Tom Hart Dykes love of flowers. It was the \\"hook\\" all newspapers look for in such stories, and that is also the hook they use in telling their story. But your not going to learn much about Orchids from this story is told in parallel first person narrative which centers on their immature decision to tempt fate and danger and then tests their ability to survive. In a strange way the book reminded me of  Jon Krakauer's excellent \\"Into the Wild\\" about a youth who graduates from College and ends up alone, dead in the wilds of Alaska. Both books share that same desire to decipher why some young males make such choices. Overall I would recommend the book as an interesting first person adventure, but it is strangely lacking suspense and I really was let down that we really learn nothing about the band of guerillas who hold them captive. I certainly missed  that insight which is so strong in the novel \\"Bel Canto\\".	2004-10-05
US	49080275	R13LIZ6RIIL81Y	0802714250	67050272	A Pirate of Exquisite Mind: Explorer, Naturalist, and Buccaneer: The Life of William Dampier	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A bit flat and dry but always interesting	Those that go first are many times not the most noble or the most rewarded by history. So it appears was the case of William Dampier who for much of his life in the late 1600s and early 1700s was a Pirate, which it might be said was legal so long as you plundered the other country's ships. But what comes through the most in this rather flat and uneven biography is how much travel and knowledge a simple buccaneer was able to accomplish before the far more recognized Captain Cook. Danpier, it appears, was responsible for creating travel writing, had an intense ability to observe the natural world, and noted wind and navigation in areas not seen again by western eyes for over a hundred years.  It's claimed that his writing was the inspiration for Darwin, Jonathan Swift, and Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe. Yet as compelling as this life appears to be the book Diana Preston and her husband Michael have crafted is more interesting than compelling. More a he went here and saw this and then that chronicle than the ripping good story that is behind the facts. Perhaps this needed to be an historical novel to elevate the excitement and sense of wonder. The Preston's book is a cut below the recent excellent great sea and exploration non-fiction such as the far better book on Magellan by Bergreen, or Sea of Glory by Philbrick, or Tony Horwitz's marvelous traveling biography of Captain Cook, Blue Latitude or even Diana Preston's wonderful book on the Robert Falcon Scott book, A First Rate Tragedy. Overall, I found it a bit flat and dry but always interesting.	2004-09-21
US	49080275	R2F3UKYA4MXA4W	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Participant oral histories	Fourteen days after the 60th Anniversary of D-Day I stood on Omaha Beach and visited Cimetiere Americain at Colleville-sur-mer. Experiences that lead me back to my bookshelf to Ambrose's D-Day best seller. I had tried once before to read it and stopped after 100 or so pages.  I did that again this year stopping to read \\"Public Enemies\\". The first 100 pages of this book just are not very well written. But I was determined to read on and it was well worth the effort as the book gets increasingly more interesting as it goes on. Ambrose really has woven together participant oral histories from the Eisenhower Center along with an overview of each aspect of the battle, planning to execution, and a critique of the results. Once your through the book you have a great overall picture of what took place and at least how the survivors tell their stories about it. (It did always enter my mind that no one could tell the story of those who died that day, the one in two in the first wave at Omaha Beach who were experiencing combat for the first time.) This is not a classic and it does dwell a lot on unit names, ranks and stories that seem to have punch line endings, but it is a very memorable telling of this grand and awful day in history. May it not need to be repeated?	2004-08-28
US	49080275	R24NQNOMBHOWS0	1594200211	691793905	Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Reads like the firing of a Thompson machine gun!	\\"Enemies\\" reads like a the firing of the Thompson machine gun these various 1930 gangs used to overwhelm local police and against the young rookie white collar FBI recruits, who joined the FBI because it was the only job available in the depression. Burrough's telling of the \\"War on Crime\\" fires off facts, incidents, characters in a rapid none stop narrative. The telling like a diary in chronological order of who robbed, killed, ambushed, kidnapped and was caught and escaped on any given day. All the while J. Edger Hoover's FBI demonstrated they were out manned, outgunned, and really were the keystone cops of sloppy police work.  And the press got the publics attention, especially with Dillenger, as they ran with the criminal as underdog \\"hero\\" story.  No doubt the book is epic in trying a huge cast of characters, scores of individual FBI agents to six major crime families and there leaders and members.  Here you will find The St. Paul Yeggs, Pretty Boy Floyd, The Barrow Gang (Bonnie and Clyde), The Barker-Karpis Gang (Ma Barker), The Baby Face Nelson Gang, and the Dillinger Gang. The narrative is at it's best when following Dillinger's exploits and the FBI's fruitless attempts to capture him and with the Barker-Karpis Gang (Alvin Karpis story begins the book in the prologue and ends the book with his capture and imprisonment).  I found the book enjoyable and certainly an education on the \\"War on Crime\\", a give it a definite recommendation, however, after a while all the characters, bank robberies, gun fights, girl friends, chases, missed opportunities become overwhelming and you do on occasion want to say, enough is enough. And all the while I was reading this I thought, WOW shouldn't HBO make this a limited TV series, a kind of Band of Brothers of Gangsters.	2004-08-16
US	49080275	R305481YKR5F9X	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Masterpiece and epic in it's telling	This volume is simply one of the very best, most exciting, interesting, and highly charged biographies I have read. Fortunately for me, a pending visit to Saint Petersburg provided me with the motivation to pull this twenty four-year-old 1st Edition copy from my bookshelf. Its 850 pages had seemed a daunting task no matter how many people had recommended this as a \\"must read\\". Robert Massie has created a masterpiece of story telling. Each chapter is the equivalent of a short story and compelling in it's own right. And each is presented with an introduction that places you, the reader, in context. Massie also places you both in Peter the Great's time but populates his world with many other sovereigns and characters of interesting historical note.  Most notably a large part of the book is devoted to King Charles XII of Sweden. Upon completion of this wonderful book I had a much better understanding of Russia, the Baltic States history and the origins of may Russian cultural traits. Peter the Great was a massive personality who's impact was both awful for those he ruled and passed judgement on, and visionary for pushing Russia into a modern and westernized nation. Overall, the book reads like an epic Russian Novel, deep in character study, action, adventure, and compelling social observation. Massie is just an excellent writer. I highly recommend this book as others have recommended it to me.	2004-07-17
US	49080275	RO9HPYSE1T42W	0312420196	85872492	Border Crossing: A Novel	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Two person play as a novel	I will admit that I listened to this Audio Book on drive to and from Las Angeles to Los Vegas. I thought it a good chance to be introduced to Pat Barker who seems to get such rave reviews. This is basically a two person character study in the guise of a psychological thriller that is not all that thrilling. I found the store interesting enough and the writing crisp, but the<BR>secondary plot of Tom Seymour and his wife seems lost as she walks out of his life just when he is consumed with this former child patient who returns to extract his revenge. Or does he? I will give this a marginal thumbs up because the two main characters are well written and vivid, with Danny Miller the tormented child murderer an excellent character. But in the end I did not find this very satisfying to listen to and doubt I would have finished it if I had picked it up as a book.	2004-05-27
US	49080275	R2O9RIEJ4WBYA4	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A seductive read!	This novel apparently was a number one best seller in Spain for over a year when published in it's original Spanish. It is now available in a translated English language edition. The book is a marvelous page-turner with a wonderful plot that is made up of many elements. It's a coming of age story, a thriller, a love story, a lose of love story, of father's and daughters, of friends in youth, of friends in envy, and full of dark secrets and lies. Daniel's father, who runs a used bookstore, takes Daniel to the Cemetery of Forgotten Books and asks Daniel to, chose one. Daniel's choice (a book titled THE SHADOW OF THE WIND) changes his whole life as he searches to find other books by the same author. Why is someone buying and burning this author's books?  Daniel sets out to discover the reason and in the process discovers and endless stream of characters whom all hold a piece of the puzzle. The Novel is extremely well written, such as this example: \\"....says that the art of reading is slowly dying, that it's an intimate ritual, that a book is a mirror that offers us only what we already carry inside us, that when we read, we do it with all out heart and mind, and great readers are becoming more scarce by the day. Every month we receive offers to turn our bookshop into a store selling televisions, girdles, or rope-soled shoes. They won't get us out of here unless it's feet first.\\"<br />Similar to the way the exceptional narrator in the novel THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE takes you out into the streets of London, Daniel's first person account here takes you along with him into the streets of  Barcelona... to find out who wrote and who wants to burn the last remaining copy of the \\"Shadow of the Wind\\". I guarantee you will enjoy this seductive read.	2004-05-02
US	49080275	R3K1NHGM4NY23H	068482535X	799300305	Lincoln	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Flawed by to many details and dry narrative but notable read	With word that later in 2004 several new Lincoln biographies are to be published I again turned to my unread copy of Donald's LINCOLN. It had been highly recommended to me when I mentioned that I had never read a biography of Lincoln. I was told this was one of the best Lincoln Biographies.Overall, David Donald's book is just full of details and is interestingly told from Lincoln's perspective.  (What did Lincoln know and what did he do? A real time biography.) I greatly admire Donald's accomplishment and learned a great deal but was disappointed that this is just not an \\"entertaining\\" narrative. The writing is dry, without a visual sense or an emotional core. You never feel you're experiencing Lincoln, feeling what he must have felt as he comes across in the narrative as stoically reactive to events while holding on to only one true principle, saving the union. I especially like the first part of the book covering Lincoln's early years up to the famous Lincoln-Douglas debates. But once the Great War takes hold Lincoln is depicted as a man given to compromise and taking the middle ground unable to do anything more than ride the whirlwind of events.  (Actually Lincoln said himself that this is the case and it comes so apparent in this narrative.) Lincoln appears here as an uncertain politician and seldom the statesman. This may be true and a bit unsettling to those of us who might want to \\"worship\\" the Lincoln as statesman who belongs to the ages. My reading left me with little insight into Lincoln's thinking, and more important without an insight into what he is feeling that I felt distanced from subject. The feeling I came away with was that Lincoln was not really comfortable in his own skin and I was uncomfortable and unsure that this could be true.  I recommend Donald's book for its detail, overall insight, but warn that it is a tough read.	2004-04-21
US	49080275	RF4QJV09QAWE4	0786868635	47142023	Ada Blackjack: A True Story of Survival in the Arctic	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Worthy follow up to the ICE MASTER	I had read the ICE MASTER by Jennifer Niven when it was first published and found it a remarkably well written and compelling narrative of  a strange arctic expedition lead by strange and misguided Vilhjalmur Stefansson. The story of the Karluk getting trapped in the ice and drifting north of Siberia to remote Wangel Island is gripping, as is the miracle of finding out who dies and survives. And now Jennifer Niven has written a kind of sequel or continuation of the story as the strange Mr. Stefansson sends four explorers back to Wangel island to live and settle so the island can be claimed by the British or Canadians (who want nothing to do with the expedition). Strange as it seems one of the survivors of the Karluk, Fred Maurer is one of these four. Joining the expedition is Ada Blackjack, an Inuit Eskimo woman they hire to sew clothing for them while living on Wangel Island. This second volume is told though Ada Blackjack's life story and introduces us to wide ranging cast of characters, the expeditions relatives, Mr. Harold Noice who leads a rescue mission and his mad wife Florence who's paranoia leads to lies and the undoing of Noice and Ada Blackjacks reputation. If this all sounds a bit like an arctic soap opera, it is of course, and the story is not as exciting a read as the ICE MASTER. But anyone who loved that volume as much as I did is sure to enjoy the complete irony of this return exposition and Ada Blackjack's  Unusual life story.	2004-04-17
US	49080275	R342TCTXLQZWLO	0743217802	276350978	They Marched Into Sunlight: War and Peace Vietnam and America October 1967	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Five plus stars on a field of Red, White and Blue	Once in a very long while comes a book that is a single amazing achievement. This book draws you into its world and vibrates in your mind like marbles in a jar as you read. David Maraniss accomplishment is totally overwhelming in it's detail and depiction of every mans perception of truth. Told with an honest tone and little noticeable bias his story sums up years of protest and war. I often mention my favorite book of all time (non-fiction) is Neil Sheehan's, A BRIGHT SHINING LIE. A book that simply explains the unexplainable reasons of Vietnam through the telling of the life of John Paul Vann. Now Maraniss expands the canvas, viewing the Vietnam experience through the eyes of a multi-character epic. Just by telling the story of the people and places all one month, October 1967. It is pitch perfect, sad, wonderful, ugly, glorious, and so wonderfully written that I defy you to turn away. I can not recommend this more highly. One of the great books defining the Vietnam era experience.	2004-04-06
US	49080275	R219P4VQ9KZ3JM	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	5	6	6	N	N	It will break your heart and give perspective along the way.	\\"Beyond mountains there are mountains\\" is apparently a Haitian proverb. Tracy Kidder's book covers his travels observing Doctor Paul Farmer, who grew up poor on a boat and bus, only to attend Harvard and also develop a public health clinic in Haiti. Farmer's career becomes a lens for Kidder to view the world's medical crises among the poor with a major emphasis on TB. Tracy Kidder brings the magnitude of the crises among the worlds poor into brilliant focus by highlighting Farmers life and dedication and, or obsession to cure the world's poor. Farmer works by treating patient by patient and yet his methods and expertise come to impact programs in Peru, the Siberian prisons of modern Russia, Cuba and his beloved Haiti. The book is able to give an excellent medical and political overview of the gap between the health and wealth of elite and the barren poor. Because Farmer is so intense with each individual patient it allows Kidder to illustrate the crises and the world's reaction dramatically, through many individual patient's. In reading I found I was amazed, angry, hopeful and depressed. It all reminded me of the ant pushing the large pebble up hill only to have it roll back down and over him. At the end of the book Farmer seems to sum up this overwhelming challenge by saying his is life spent in service to the \\"long defeat\\". Yet, along the way there are many small victories and some amazing people who join in the effort. People such as Tom White who owns a heavy construction firm in Boston who has given almost his whole fortune away to support Farmer's work. This book is mandatory reading for anyone in politics, public service, or feels they are entitled to have one more tax cut.	2004-01-08
US	49080275	R1EI7S6WBWJJWQ	067003231X	741254205	Sea of Glory: America's Voyage of Discovery, The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A Glory of a book!	I am really at a loss on how to convey Philbrick's epic story and accomplishment to you. Unlike his last book, In the Heart of the Sea (which is a tremendous favorite of mine) which was an adventure story of survival Mr. Philbrick's  SEA OF GLORY is a major contribution to U. S. History.  How is it possible, that I had not heard of this expedition, it's results, it's contribution to the Smithsonian and science. Philbrick's answer is to blame its strange leader, Lieutenant Charles Wilkes. Yet the telling puts lots of blame on politics and personality as they impact history. But the great thing is, that although many may have been aware of this expedition, Mr. Philbrick has brought it alive for the general reader, and I suspect to the lesson plans of many U. S. History classes. Having just read OVER THE EDGE OF THE WORLD about Magellan's voyage three hundred years earlier I found it a great prequel to the story of the Wilke's expedition that circumnavigated the world and accomplished some amazing things. One of Philbrick's real accomplishments is the personalization of the voyage, told through the one of the Expeditions officers, William Reynolds who at first idolizes his commander only to form a \\"hate\\" that even colors his own judgement and ability to fairly assess the Exhibitions results. This personal story makes this narrative more compelling and entertaining. I highly recommend Sea of Glory.	2003-12-31
US	49080275	R2GV7LCO08BQWB	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	75	80	N	N	Page-turning history	Does a history book have this much right to be a fun page-turner? Yes, and Laurence Bergreen exceeds to great story telling, marvelous adventure, creating a just plain enjoyable read. Taken either as history or read like a novel this is an amazingly detailed telling of three year voyage which ended in 1522 with only one ship and 18 survivors out of the original five ships and 260 who left Spain with this Portuguese Captain. Even the early chapters, which tell how a Portuguese ends up leading the Spanish fleet, is a marvelous story. But in the end, what stays with you is the shear terror, boredom, disease, and strange island customs all left for us to enjoy because of basically one man, Antonio Pigafetta who was taken on to chronicle the voyage and some how managed to survive mutiny, the voyage through the strait, the native peoples defense of their territories (which resulted in the death of Magellan himself), and in the end being cast aside for a more \\"official version\\". Bergreen could not have told his story without Pigafetta and Pigafetta could not have found a better writer to bring his story to a modern audience. I highly recommend this great read!	2003-12-12
US	49080275	R28SUIZJU4BWPH	158243106X	186060939	Tournament of Shadows: The Great Game and the Race for Empire in Central Asia	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A book of adventure stories!	This is a most entertaining telling of the history of Central Asia, and what was called \\"the great game\\". The game was simply defined as keeping Russia out and Britain in control of the region. It is fascinating to learn the history of Afghanistan and the massive British defeat, and later the history of Tibet. Each chapter is like a short history lesson, or short story, illustrating via a principle player the actual events that lead us to the present day. The books structure reminds me of Allan Moorhead's two books on the Nile (The While Nile, The Blue Nile). Recommended to anyone who wants both a good overview of the Central Asian history of European empire that also in part reads like an adventure book.	2003-10-10
US	49080275	R2L1WKYDZK46M8	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Where is Mr. Christian?	Before I comment on Caroline Alexander's extremely well researched and detailed narrative of the Bounty, Captain Bligh, and his crew I must admit that I have always been drawn to this story. In fact, I may be the only person in my generation to have liked the 1962 Marlon Brando film version of  \\"Mutiny on the Bounty\\". So when I saw Caroline Alexander's book I simply had to read it and although I enjoyed and appreciated the scholarship of the work I found it uneven, and maybe a bit to ambitious. The first chapter, which covers Captain Edwards and his ship the Pandora sailing to capture the mutineers, is simply marvelous. It's a story that cries out to be a book all by itself. The rest of the book sets up as a defense of Captain Bligh and the views of each crew member with an emphasis on Peter Hayward all to explain how Bligh became the villain of the Bounty mutiny rather than it's hero. And much of this I found compelling and interesting. However, and I can not help feeling it is a big problem for the narrative here, Fletcher Christian (they called him, in fact, Mr. Christian) is almost a phantom, with others (the crew and Bligh) left to tell Christian's side and explain his motives. This may explain why many of the popular Bounty books are novels rather than the \\"true story\\".  It is not, of course, Caroline Alexander's fault that Christian is an enigma here. She tries hard to define him by bring forth-different perspectives offered by the crew as he increasing becomes the villain of the piece.  Yet, with what little direct evidence there is Christian becomes an invisible (off stage) personality in this narrative. Is it fair to point this out? I think yes. But at the same time Caroline Alexander can only tell the story from what is know and the documents and historical evidence and tell the story she does with an excellent eye for all sort of details, personality, social status, and the incredible . Yet, it's strangely unsettling to read her present the evidence theChristian did not die on Pitcairn Island, but some how, returned to England to live in semi-secret. Who knows? Who will ever know? And this is the frustration and beauty of this multi leveled narrative.	2003-10-10
US	49080275	R3R7ET4FETK9F5	0385336403	293114026	Cloud of Sparrows	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Light as air	This is a first novel that reads like a treatment for a TV mini-series. That's not to say it that it is not be a fun and entertaining read. However, many seem to be comparing or marketing this book as a new \\"Shogun\\". Well to paraphrase someone else, I have read Shogun (even saw the mini-series) and this is not Shogun. But given that as I read it on the beach in Maui I found it to be a fun and entertaining beach read. And yes producers, let's make this into a mini-series, I think it would be great fun.	2003-09-16
US	49080275	R39PUNSOMSBIPI	0060930888	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The alternative choice that could have been far worse.	This is an excellent overview of the events leading up to and through the month when the Civil War ended. It's an experiment in suggestive alternative history which is an interesting twist, which attempts not to explain why Lincoln, Grant, Lee and others did what they did, but how easily they could have done something else. And this something else could have had a more long-term negative impact on the \\"peace\\" achieved. I have seen Jay Wink a couple of times at the UCLA book fairs and although I found the subject of his book interesting I found him a bit arrogant, at least in its marketing. No doubt that is one reason it has sat so long on the shelf unread.  Yet, to Mr. Wink's credit I think he has given the general reader, interested in the civil war, a book of interesting insight.  Mr. Wink, no doubt is a big Robert E. Lee fan and may go a bit overboard to indicate that it was \\"possible\\" the South was going to free the slaves before the North did. I, however, appreciated reading his supporting thesis for presenting this idea. What I most liked was his conclusion or main point of the book. That this nation was not born July 4th, but became one nation, with one re-interpreted constitution in April 1865.	2003-09-16
US	49080275	R2VVF40R7PBCK7	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A modern classic!	This is a modern classic. The book is simply a marvelous accomplishment by Ann Patchett. And yet, I almost did not read this wonderful book until my wife and a friend both recommended it highly. After all, this is based on a true event, but it's a novel, and it's about terrorists, which is not my favorite subject right now. I could not have been more wrong in my first impression. After reading this I feel that I was held captive, or maybe was a terrorist who lived these months, with these characters. Marvelous and important in it brings together so many different nationalities, languages, and backgrounds all who share a love of the arts, in this case music.  Ann Patchett also gives perspective, a new face, to terrorism, and explores how and who creates terrorism and the impact people can have one on one in building understanding and universality. I simply must instruct you to read this marvelous novel. One of the very best I have read	2003-09-16
US	49080275	R2MMVHC687SCMB	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Uneven read	Adam Gopnick moves his wife and infant son to Paris from New York City. He works for the New Yorker so all this is possible. And although the book at times is just hilarious, funny, and insightful, many of the chapters read like they were separate New Yorker articles. There is a wonderful story of his trying to first find a gym to join, and then joining process and then the discovery of how the French use the gym. This little gem may be worth the price of the book alone. But later I found an \\"article\\" on the fashion industry just boring. I found the book to be a very uneven read that I could only recommend to persons going to visit or live in France.	2003-08-23
US	49080275	RSWPLXAXFRNHG	0375501681	327657575	When Hollywood Had a King: The Reign of Lew Wasserman, Who Leveraged Talent into Power and Influence	Books	4	9	9	N	N	When Hollywood was King!	When Hollywood was King and MCA ruled through aggressive, imaginative, creative, dirty, underhanded, political ways. This is not my favorite Hollywood book as I found &quot;Showman, the life of David O. Selznick&quot; by David Thomson and Peter Biskind's &quot;easy Riders, Raging Bulls&quot; far more entertaining. But Connie Bruck's book is more epic, covering as it does the business careers of Jules Stein and Lew Wassermann from the 1920s into the 21st Century in addition to telling the history of their company MCA and the industry they &quot;ruled&quot;. Note I reference business careers because these individuals did not seem to have a personal life that did not revolve around business. There is not much surprising celebrity scandal that unfolds, except some strong hints that Ronald Reagan was a charming empty suit who received many sweetheart deals from the industry and he gave back in return. In some ways the Wasserman life story told here is one of the rise and fall, the young mans glory being used by younger students against him. And even though MCA associated with the mob and the mob with them Wasserman gave heavily to his industry and charity. A book for anyone interested in the history of Hollywood as a business in the 20th century. <BR>An epic work that I highly recommend.	2003-08-06
US	49080275	R2NY1S4Z3MWCDD	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Did you know...........?	Evan Thomas has written a fun and entertaining biography of the Revolutionary icon John Paul. Did you know that this was his real name. John Paul? My guess is that there are many for facts about Jones that you will find you did not know. Add that to material about how the French assisted the rebel upstarts to win the Rebellion. Jone's ablity to fight a war of terror against the British. (Interesting that the British overreaction to Jones created more psycoligical terror among the population than the true threat could ever poss.) Was it only Catherine the Great that realized that the success of the American Revolution spelled trouble for the Royals of France, Britain, and Russia? And for those Donald Rumsfeld fans who recall his comment that the Iraq's were not fighting by the rules most recently, something to the effect that they were not even in uniform. Well, John Paul Jones began every fight flying under British colors, dressed in British uniforms all to sneak up close and surprise the enemy. All in the name of winning honor. I was much impressed by the crisp clean writing, the narrative drive, and the fact of fighting at sea, the political battles, and the social issues of the time that Thomas weaves so successfully in his short 311-page biography. This is a must read for those now finding row upon row of their library's filling with biography's of our founding fathers.	2003-07-14
US	49080275	R3T3IB1AX4WT3Z	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	No way am I going to read a book about a horse!	No interest! No interest at all in reading about a race horse. That's what I said each time I saw \\"Seabiscuit\\" on the best seller list, and even heard the author discuss the book at the UCLA Festival of Books. No way.. not going to do it. So then why am I hear telling you this is a must read. An exciting and fabulous book that   Grabs you from the first page and takes you head long into a wonderful tale of underdog Americana. Rocky has turned into a horse, a jockey (maybe two), an owner, and a wonderful trainer. Not since \\"A Civil Action\\" has their been a none fiction book to rival this page turning pleasurable read. I enjoyed every page, and still hate Epilogues that tell you all that happened to the leading characters you have meet.  Laura Hillenbrand says she used the book, The Killer Angels as a model of how to structure and tell a true story. Well she has accomplished a wonderful thing. I will never think of jockeys and race horses the same again. I might even tune into the derby every other year. I highly recommend this great book.	2003-07-07
US	49080275	R3P2HJV3YNWFCY	0618134247	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Theroux travel at it's best!	I have read all of Paul Theroux's travel books and found Dark Star Safari his best. But then I always think that when I finish the latest one. But Dark Star is better because it is more personal. An act of rediscovery, going home rather than discovery. And because he visits so many places that are not visited by tourists he does not get to engage in his usual tourist bashing. Although there is much of it, especially in the end when he talks to a young woman on a train about her literal belief in the bible. You almost feel your listening to them as the occupy the seats in front of you on the train. But the major part of the book is a rift on aid workers and the impact (or lack off) on East Africa (let's make note he only visited a portion of the continent) and how people and institutions have changed since he was a teacher in the Peace Corps in the 60s. Always fun, always thought provoking, and always told with the wonderful wry wit that drips with sarcasm this is a wonderful trip to take with Mr. Theroux, and I was sad when it ended. I highly recommend this enjoyable volume.	2003-06-29
US	49080275	R2UHP40O5EYZTE	0385336799	206234517	The Englishman's Daughter: A True Story of Love and Betrayal in World War I	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Agree it's good but not great	In a novel like Sebastian Faulks outstanding &quot;Birdsong&quot; the personal horror and romance under the umbrella of war can be explored to maximum effect. The fact that Ben Macintyre's story is true makes it equally special. But in the end less satisfying because the focus of the book is far more than the story of the Englishman's Daughter. In England the book was published under the title &quot;A Foreign Field&quot; which really is a better title, in that the book explores the whole story of the war and it's effect on the Village of Villeret, France. The story of Helene Digby's conception and the execution of her father Robert Digby is the major emotional center of the book. What I found strange is that towards the end of the book Mr. Macintyre tries hard to finger who may have betrayed the Englishman, but I did not seem to care. I somehow thought it was understandable that the whole village did, and the fact that the Englishman, including Robert Digby could not have possibly survived the eventual total destruction of the village underscored the ultimate betrayal. The war itself.	2003-05-23
US	49080275	RK5KSRCW0O393	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Well-rounded review of the Krakatoa story.	Can you give half stars?  3  stars sounds about right. Very interesting read that covers everything from geology to biology and even the political and sociological impact of the Krakatoa Volcano's massive 1883 explosion. I learned a lot and enjoyed much of the book, especially the discovery of Alfred Russel Wallace and the Wallace line. This amazing story and discovery is worth the price of the book. I did find the book rather uneven with a really poorly written first chapter, \\".a Pointed Mountain\\", but give it time and you will find much to reward in later chapters. If the topic interests you, I'm sure you will enjoy this well-rounded review of the Krakatoa story.	2003-05-01
US	49080275	R19S12GDQ83L9	0679724141	821994534	A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My Favorite Book ever!	When ever I am asked the question... what is your favorite book? I have but one single answer... A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam by Neil Sheehan. This is outstanding biography, history, and adventure story. So well written that you just do not want it to end. And no other book buts the whole Vietnam experience into better perspective. I own a first edition, and read it when it first came out in 1988... and ever since then, have felt it was, for me, my favorite.	2003-04-30
US	49080275	R1F7SDAQNDP2A	1586420046	105351778	History: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Read 1st Edition	I discovered this book in 1977 when I somehow found myself with a first edition. It has stayed with me all that time. I was wondering if it still was in print and looked it up here. Amazing that over all these 26 years it's still in print and getting 5 stars from everyone. Time to read it again.	2003-04-30
US	49080275	R1OWLK811WFC8I	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Most interesting history well told	Erik Larson's well-written book has many interesting details on the Chicago World's Fair the &quot;White City&quot; and he contrasts it well with a strange murderer, H. H. Holmes. The book is, should I dare say, great fun and very interesting. It is full of amazing research and interesting facts, and a whose's who of the personalities of the era. I recommend this book to you as I do Mr. Larson's earlier book, Isaac's Storm.	2003-03-07
US	49080275	R2DTWJ6CCTEUOH	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A most marvelous journey!	The early pages are written as well as any novel as your lone narrator takes you by his (or her) hand to visit a century past, a culture long gone, and human intolerance revisited. Michel Faber has presented a most fascinating glimpse at the morals and social constants of the late 1800s London. I am sure the level of detail, minuet character study, and the ugly work of the working girl will stay with me for some time. A most marvelous journey that I must remark reminded me of Memoirs of a Geisha. It's a long book, but never boring, and the craftsmanship and weaving of the characters is remarkable. It takes you to place, an era, a class, and a culture, which you feel and touch but have never experienced. Is that not what a good Novel is to do? Enjoy and give your time over to that lone narrator who will guide you so gently into the William Rackham household.	2003-02-19
US	49080275	R19WZ5M4OP0YE2	0385502168	137034861	The Age of Gold: The California Gold Rush and the New American Dream	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Solid gold reading	I am not going to go into a lot of detail. But just want to recommend this book to anyone interested in early California history and the gold rush. Entertaining stories that read much like a novel highlight the various elements of the event. Very enjoyable way to take in a lot of history.	2003-01-29
US	49080275	R11GM8H8D35P7C	0060537639	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	4	3	9	N	N	1421 reasons why or maybe	I found the book an interesting theory and I would be most interested to read some reasons why the theory is not at least, in part, possible. I noted the other comments did not mention the theory that the Portugese reached Puerto Rico some 60 years before Columbus. How many other historical events or \\"truths\\" have we found to be incorrect. As a book I enjoyed it as much as Kon Tiki and Aku Aku which had much of the same speculative sense of fun about them. And yes, the chinese discoved Kansas City, that one I found a little hard to believe. But I think you will enjoy this expecially if you like maps, history, and a mental time twister.	2003-01-29
US	49080275	R1VHB466Q98UF7	0805065415	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Simply great travel, history, and detective story	The book got off to a slow start and I was sure it was not going to hold up to Bill Bryson or Paul Theroux, my two favorite travel &quot;entertainers&quot;. I had always wanted to read a biography of Capt. Cook and never got around to it. But as I read on I found myself enjoying every detail of Tony Horwitz's trip and his discoveries. Very entertaining way to present what is a biography. I highly recommend this to anyone interested in travel or Capt. Cook.	2003-01-04
US	49080275	R1O6F4Z41XA8PW	0375414657	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Great first novel	A Great first Novel!<BR>                    I was lucky to pick up an advanced copy of this first novel at the library. It caught my attention with its subject matter as I had just read'Tournament of Shadows' by Karl E. Meyer and Shareen Brysac about the history of the 'great game' in Central Asia (a great non-fiction book). I found the Piano Tuner's adventure story and it telling against the roll of the British Army in the jungles of Burma an interesting backdrop to this novel set in the late 1800s. The Piano Tuner is going to be a big hit! It is so well written, filled with great visuals and as the Piano Tuner, Edgar Drake, travels from London to Burma just to tune a mysterious piano for a mysterious officer. It's basic structure reads like 'Heart of Darkness'. I really enjoyed this first novel. (I am sure Mr. Daniel Mason will not be able to complete medical school as we will all want to read his next book.) Now I wonder who will make this into a movie.. I see Ralph Fines in the lead.	2002-10-11
US	49080275	R1MHZ4ZFMT79XL	0385501390	852442680	American Scoundrel: The Life of the Notorious Civil War General Dan Sickles	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Liked it better than you apparently	So often I begin an interesting Biography and find I can't get through it. I enjoyed American Scoundrel as it read more like a novel than non-fiction. I have a problem with the title, why is Dan Sickles a &quot;Scoundrel&quot;? He won the medal of honor, was a major player in the saving of the union. Yes, he was a terrible husband, terrible father, terrible family man, and oh yes there was that kind of OJ Simpson trial where he got off killing his wifes lover.. but a Scoundrel... no.. but the sub-title says the &quot;notorious&quot; and that I agree with. So this is not the greatest biography ever written, it was most entertaining and I had never heard the Sickles story before. Sounds like a good mini series to me.	2002-08-23
US	49080275	R3KLFNJRV3FXO	1565123360	868631692	The Curve of the World	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fun Adventure story told via two views	Loss and finding one's self and the meaning of relationships and loyalty are all mixed together as Lewis, the \\"hero\\" of our tale takes action to save himself only to find he needs others to survive. And his wife, who seems bored with the marrage goes to extream lengths to conduct a rescue with her BLIND son. Rather over the top that she would subject her son to this attempt not once, but twice. But I enjoyed the book and although the ending might have been better, would recommend it for a nice day on the beach.	2002-08-05
US	49080275	R1GFCANGHO4CPI	0312253915	445141257	The Gross: The Hits, The Flops: The Summer That Ate Hollywood	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Grossly Entertaining	I am a avid movie lover and so enjoyed Peter Bart's fun trip through the summer of 1998. Reading it now in the spring of 2001 I really already forgot that summer had so many really awful films. And Peter Bart does a fine job saying how they came to be. It does look like coporate Hollywood has done a fine job of killing off Hollywood. I was interested to note my favorite film of that summer, Smoke Signals,was only mentioned twice in passing. My other favorite Everest was not mentioned at all. But the point of the book was just that... Hollywood wants the dumb down block buster. After reading this I'm glad I missed Godzilla. If you like the movie industry and how and why things get made and marketed you will find this an intersting few hours read.	2001-03-08
US	49080275	R3LVKF3RLRPXUZ	0684857081	86280798	Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How the Sex-Drugs-and-Rock 'N' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Easy Gosip Ragging Drugs	This is simply the best inside book on the movie revolt in Hollywood in the late 60s and 70s. Simply amazing gosip but more amazing is the excess of ego and creative genius all so lost to sex and drugs. As a &quot;liberal&quot; I for the first time could see why people hate Hollywood so much. And yet as a fan of so many of the directors discussed in the book I found the whole revolt worthwhile. And now we are left with corporations making the likes of Gladiator and considering giving it an Oscar. If you enjoy the inside story and how ego and creativity empacks risk taking your sure to fine this an enjoyable read.	2001-03-08
US	49080275	R21B9MEILKIBKP	0688169759	572140372	Florence Harding: The First Lady, The Jazz Age, And The Death Of America's Most Scandalous President	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Great Social Biography	I bought Anthony's biography of Florence Harding some time ago and it's sat a while in my \\"need to read stack\\". Every time a friend came over and saw it they laughed, questioning why I would have any interest Florence Harding. And I was hard pressed to explain why. But having just completed it I find it an amazing story and great compainion volume to Barbara Goldsmith's wonderful \\"other Powers\\" about Victoria Woodhull. More than a personal story, Anthony has given us a great social history of the era and early hipocracies of America's good old days. Eveyone would be better educated it they read this volume. And as to the Hardings, well the less said the better... as you will enjoy every single page of this great biography. Enjoy!	2001-02-25
US	49080275	RXKTZDEGBXIKF	0786865296	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk and the Miraculous Rescue of her Survivors	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Real survivor's island!	In an interesting recent tradition of great non-fiction adventure books like, Into Thin Air, Perfect Storm, A  First Rate Tragedy, and the recent In the Heart of the Sea, we now have what might be the best of the breed, The Ice Master. Jennifer Niven has mastered her subject as the reader is an active participant along  with these survivors. Despite the reader knowing from page one that the ship sinks and some survive you are drawn in by a narative that is both personal and clearly detailed with historical perspective. Ms. Niven brought forth a very well written book which is fresh and exciting and shocking page after page turning page. I can't really express how much I recommend you take a trip to the Arctic on the Karluk.	2001-01-19
US	49080275	R1O2J4HGQ1VEDI	0805059725	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	3	10	13	N	N	The ending?	I loved \\"Black Flower\\" and found it much better than Cold  Mountain to which it was often compaired. In fact Black Flower is one of my  all time \\"best books\\". So I really looked forward to Jubilo. And  yes, it is very well written with some very interesting characters. A kind  of an Outlaw Josie Wales first chapter leads to a good story all very well  written... but then what's with the ending? Without giving it away.. I  found the ending strange and simply to out of \\"left field\\".	2000-07-27
