US	49107932	R3G12AK46QHSMY	0446530476	499244398	Discover Your Sales Strengths: How the World's Greatest Salespeople Develop Winning Careers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another top notch Gallup book	I love the Gallup books.  Gallup really takes human capital management to the next level.  This is not for HR Departments - managers need to work with their employees directly by learning and absorbing the concepts in the Gallup books.  It is definitely not for the closed minded reader.  All of the principles of the books need to be engaged and used carefully by both employees and their managers. <br /> <br />Just opening a page of the book can shake a person's prior beliefs: for example, the book unequivocally states that experience is NOT the determinant of sales performance.  Another example: \\"good\\" salespeople are usually not good at selling all types of products.  Of course, the book allows the reader to take the strengths finder via the internet (perhaps for the second time, as was my case).  Again, the reader needs to carefully consider the results and use the book as a guide to act accordingly. <br /> <br />I like how the authors define talents (generally speaking in the Gallup universe, any repeating pattern of feeling, thought, or behavior that can be productively applied).  The reader can then observe which strengths he or she has that fit with a particular sales role (page 90): our motivation, the way we build relationships, the way we gain commitments, the structure we need to get our work done, and our ability to understand and solve customer needs. <br /> <br />Overall the book is very comprehensive, though succinct (implying that those who wrote the book and the editors have special talents of their own!).  It introduces the Q12, the \\"Manager Effect\\", customer engagement, and a section entitled \\"Advice for the World's Best Sales Managers\\".  The Appendix lists and defines the 34 different talents/themes (as mentioned, the internet test will tell you your top five).  One caveat: this is very personal information, and in the wrong hands it can be very harmful.  Carefully and properly used, the book is probably the best scientific resource available forthe business world because it is readily understood and applied yet very sophisticated.  Very appropriate for those in sales or thinking about a career in sales.  econ	2005-05-27
US	49107932	R2Y1564I9375R3	0440509289	78501904	Type Talk at Work (Revised): How the 16 Personality Types Determine Your Success on the Job	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Better tool for self understanding than controlling others	Kroeger and Thuesen are not my favorite MBTI authors, but the Type Talk books are a decent reference for those who consider themselves beginner and intermediate level in the personality theory world.  The explanations of the four preferences and how to look for them in one's own self or in others is reasonably well done.  I particularly liked how they borrowed from Keirsey's theory and delineated the NT/NF/SP/SJ categories.  They do not delve far into the dominant/auxilary/tertiary/inferior functions. <br /> <br />Type Talk at Work explains how people of different types set goals, manage time, hire and fire, resolve conflict, solve problems, and deal with other workplace issues.  The range of topics was pretty comprehensive, although by necessity a bit superficial.  Given the length of the book the explanation of how different types interact was well done, and had some case studies also.  I was not very impressed with the 'Z Problem Solving Model', but it may benefit someone else.  The best part of the book is the last part, entitled 'The Sixteen Profiles At Work'.  The Sixteen Profiles section details how all of the types tend to think and behave in a workplace setting.  I'm sure many people will be amazed at how accurate it can be for them.  Type Talk at Work is defintely meant to promote self knowledge, which the authors stress is the first duty of the reader: know yourself well, then try to figure other people out. <br /> <br />I have two criticisms: firstly, the authors are NFs, and in my view did not altogether avoid unconsciously writing the book for other NFs.  That is a minor criticism, as the book overall is well done.  I also believe that Kroeger and Thuesen did not warn readers to properly use type theory, in other words use it in a very careful, ethical way.  The book is very dangerous in the wrong hands and misuse of knowledge and information about someone can and does happen in the business world.  The reader needs to know that sharing this type of information can be very risky. <br /> <br />I don't mind recommending the book, particularly because a type book regarding the workplace is badly needed and I'm not aware of any others.  econ	2005-05-26
US	49107932	RM5RNVD7FZIFJ	0465081436	292690162	Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Complicated common sense made uncomplicated again	Thomas Sowell does it again...be prepared to roll up your sleeves and plow through some heavy duty analysis.  For those in the profession the book is not much of anything new; but for someone who is interested and intelligent and unfamiliar with economics the book will increase his or her knowledge of economics exponentially.  Sowell takes on critical issues regarding individuals' and societies' well being and aces them using economic thinking and analysis (as usual).  I hope that students pick up the book and become encouraged to take economics classes and even major in economics. <br /> <br />The book is about as politically incorrect as it can possibly be.  That's great - because as Sowell repeatedly asserts in his books, economics is not about value judgements, but simply about analyzing costs and tradeoffs inherent in decision making.  This applies to individuals as well as nations.  Politics and economics are intricately intertwined, according to Sowell (and I strongly agree).  The purpose of \\"Applied Economics\\" is to analyze the effects of decisions made by various individuals, groups, and political systems across cultures and times in history, which in turns explains the outcomes that various people and groups have experienced.  Policy making is also covered in depth, with understandable yet deep analysis and explanation of various 'hot button' issues including health care, labor, systems of government, discrimination, and risk taking.  Of course, all of the theory is amply peppered with real world examples.  Detailing the real world outcomes is not just the icing on the cake; it's a critical part of explaining the theory, which is one of the reasons why Sowell is a decent economist. <br /> <br />I like the way Sowell chose to continue \\"Basic Economics\\".  It's not written at a high enough level for someone who's been in the profession for a while but will provide food for thought for the open minded reader who wants to learn more about the subject.  econ	2005-05-09
US	49107932	R2NC25MPDX5INP	078688777X	939146126	Get Clark Smart: The Ultimate Guide to Getting Rich From America's Money-Saving Expert	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Consumers' paradise	Clark has an entertaining and informative radio show and the same can be said about his book.  Every last page has helpful hints about how to save money if you are serious about doing so.  Clark also throws in a section about investments and money management, hardly comprehensive but a terrific start for those who want practical advice about how to invest. <br /> <br />He covers everything from automobile buying to automobile repairs, carpeting, computers, credit and debit cards and other banking services, cellular phone and landline services and long distance, home buying, vacation and travel, and of course scams and rip offs. <br /> <br />\\"Get Clark Smart\\" hits the reader with a dense amount of facts about how to derive more enjoyment out of discretionary income.  The book lists hundreds of web addresses and can be used as a handy way to look for bargains for traveling, for example.  Overall, it's written in a friendly tone from a successful, smart person who is essentially sharing his treasure trove of knowledge about consuming in America to anyone willing to listen.  econ	2005-05-04
US	49107932	RK090AOOILKQN	0684857162	396925349	Living the 7 Habits: The Courage to Change	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Very uplifting, great paradigm for living	It's difficult to give enough praise to what Stephen R. Covey does.  I love reading his books and almost anyone will benefit from browsing through the different stories about how people had the courage to face their problems and change by engaging in positive behavior.  To state the obvious, 'Living the 7 Habits' is an inspiring read.  I would urge a bit of caution, however, in that the laboratory of the real world may not cooperate much with a person living the seven habits.  On the other hand, Covey never says it's easy and he at least indirectly reminds the reader that incorporating the seven habits into one's life is an enormous amount of work. <br /> <br />Some of the stories are funny, some are quite sad, and they all demonstrate how the people who were challenged by life had to grow in some way.  Living the seven habits is tough, and the reader cannot expect the world to play along, but trying is worth the effort, and the rewards from doing so can be more satisfying than a person ever imagined.  I think the people that Covey wrote about in the book would agree. <br /> <br />In addition to about 300 pages of very readable, relevant stories about overcoming adversity and finding a better way of living, the book invites the reader to share stories that are similar to the ones in the book by writing the Franklin Covey Company.  Covey also has a Q&A section at the back of the book which is insightful and fun to read.  Altogether a very worthwhile book.  econ	2005-02-21
US	49107932	R2TNQEEY7TF4VH	0684845776	92755284	Unlimited Power : The New Science Of Personal Achievement	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The book that helps you believe anything is possible	'Unlimited Power' is the first of Tony's two books.  (He has numerous other publications and tapes, but he only has two major books.)  His energy and enthusiasm are infectious and that comes across in his writing. <br /> <br />The reader will learn something new on almost every page.  That is not to say that what Tony has said in his books isn't polemical.  'Unlimited Power' is basically an introduction to NLP (neuro-linguistic programming), and contains suggestions for \\"training\\" the mind to act in a productive way.  The work is impressive, particularly since the book is almost twenty years old.  You do not have to agree with the ideas in the book or believe any of them, but at least being open minded to some possibilities the book suggests wouldn't hurt.  In fact, my favorite aspect of the book is how Tony encourages the reader to try out his ideas.  It's essentially a book about changing minds.  I've always gotten the impression from Tony's books that he sincerely wants to help the people who read it be the absolute best they can be. <br /> <br />Tony draws out the flaws of traditional therapy early in the book.  Why force a person to relive the negative thought patterns in their brain to help them get better?  A lot of Tony's book is just common sense.  'Unlimited Power' is written for almost anyone in any stage of their lives.  Change is possible and the appeal of Tony's book is that he gives a person a way to change quickly and through their own initiative. <br /> <br />Sometimes the book needs to be taken with a grain of salt (and I doubt Tony would want his readers to accept ideas uncritically anyway).  Overall, however, I highly recommend the book as an avenue for self-improvement and maximizing your potential.  econ	2005-02-20
US	49107932	R3RE6KX57PV6RX	007140810X	483145344	Making Work Work for the Highly Sensitive Person	Books	4	21	29	N	N	Decent discussion of HSP, but not for all HSPs	I actually am impressed with Barrie's book.  For those obsessed with the MBTI she looks like an INFJ to me (and it comes across in her writing as well).  The book is very reassuring for highly sensitive people.  The reason the book earns four stars and not five is because Barrie essentially wrote it for herself and highly sensitive people (hereafter HSP) like her, which I think is a fair criticism.  I like the book and might give it four and a half stars, but it deserves four stars rather than five. <br /> <br />Barrie really hits the mark with the way the book is organized.  I like the way she divides work for HSPs into three categories: drudgery, craft, and calling.  She also reveals the problems that most HSPs face in life and the workplace and gives helpful advice for dealing with stress, being visible in the workplace, and finding a way to make a contribution to the world via fulfilling work.  It's definitely idealistic (again, see Keirsey et al), which is fine with me.  If all the book gives is hope it's a lot more than many people started with. <br /> <br />Whether all HSPs can effectively use the book is another matter.  I was unenthused about Barrie's model of drudgery/craft/calling (she uses a container with the three levels aforementioned and \\"balls\\" representing people, job tasks, and work conditions).  The issue is not whether the model effectively represents reality - it does.  The reader may or may not be able to effectively translate it to their own reality to improve his or her situation.  At least it can be used to help identify bad working conditions or bad situations at work.  I also found many other ideas in the book to be quite useful in theory but perhaps difficult to translate into reality effectively.  Then again, it's not Barrie's responsibility to do so, it's the reader's.  You may also find some of the ideas and suggestions more relevant than I did (which again alludes to the fact that I think Barrie wrote it for a segment of the HSP population). <br /> <br />All in all, the book is worthwhile since Barrie is able to effectively communicate problems and innate conditions that prevent some HSPs from enjoying life fully.  Her personal, thoughtful approach and keen insights make the book a worthwhile read.  econ	2005-02-20
US	49107932	R2FH3Y49EE6VB6	0761123695	884635098	The Introvert Advantage: How Quiet People Can Thrive in an Extrovert World	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Insightful material for the layperson, but too general	Marti's book is very comprehensive, which is not altogether a strength for this subject in a 300 page book.  The quality of her research and the fact that it's very accessible to the interested reader is a great strength of the book.  However, 'The Introvert Advantage' tries to cover every possible aspect of an introvert's life and be a manual for handling everything from office politics to parties to child rearing, which may not be as beneficial to the reader as it appears at first glance. <br /> <br />I don't want to be too hard on the book.  It's filled with useful tips and ideas.  I particularly liked the first part of the book, which amalgamates some cutting edge research on the brain.  Why are introverts introverted and why are extraverts extraverted?  The reader can discover why by reading Marti's excellent synopsis of brain structures and fascinating diagrams of the brain's pathways and design.  I would go so far as to say reading the first part of the book was kind of a catharsis for me.  It probably will also be a catharsis for any introvert who feels overwhelmed and perhaps guilty for not behaving like the majority of the population.  We don't know much more than we do know, but science seems to be on the right track and Marti gives a great background for the differences between extraverted people and introverted people. <br /> <br />I liked the remaining part of the book, given at least a few caveats.  The problem with Marti's approach is not that the advice isn't appropriate - it's very appropriate.  The problem is certainly not that the advice is irrelevant - it is extremely relevant.  The problem is I can imagine an introvert reading Marti's advice about dating, for example, and then seeing a first date falling to pieces despite rehearsing or planning.  Or a parent attempting to rotely follow the book's advice about how to parent an introverted child and not getting a good response.  Or any number of other scenarios regarding introverts and marriage,employers, employees, going to parties, having a party, and other aspects of an ordinary person's life. <br /> <br />That said, I recommend the book.  'The Introvert Advantage' fills an urgent need for those who feel unhappy about a core part of their being.  The title itself implies that introversion is something to celebrate and be proud of.  Society definitely does not feel the same way.  econ	2005-02-18
US	49107932	R2I1L7EREL1YZ8	0684856093	927677900	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens: The Ultimate Teenage Success Guide	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Very upbeat, funny, non-invasive	I'm not a teenager anymore, but I still enjoyed reading Sean Covey's book.  A person might criticize Sean for riding on his father's coattails (Stephen R. Covey of the Seven Habits collection of books and other materials).  However, Stephen himself has said that he is not responsible for creating the ideas involved with the seven habits, and I doubt that anyone would criticize Sean for much of anything after reading 'The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens.' <br /> <br />I really liked this book, to state the obvious.  It can serve to excite interest in social science in younger readers, or at least make them consider things about themselves they have not thought much about.  What are your dominant intelligences?  Are you a grape, an orange, a banana, or a melon (different categories of personalities)?  The book is definitely a tool that promotes self-discovery. <br /> <br />Sean explains the seven habits with anecdotes from his personal life and situations that would be familiar to anyone.  Overall it's a very uplifting, insightful book that presents a wonderful learning opportunity to readers of any age.  The book doesn't have to be read cover to cover, even people who don't like to read can browse through it or read just one section and walk away with food for thought.  And definitely ideas that can be applied to their everyday lives.  econ	2005-02-18
US	49107932	RH9WL9KR5BQJ9	0764123009	704871977	How to Prepare for the ACT (Barron's How to Prepare for the Act American College Testing Program Assessment (Book Only))	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A comprehensive study guide and a good value	Barron's is one of many publishers that sells standardized exam study guides.  Given what the book contains and its price, 'How to Prepare for the ACT' is probably the best ACT book out there.  The student has four opportunities to simulate the entire exam (one diagnostic test and three full 'model' ACT tests).  I would recommend using many different resources to study for the ACT, but I would also recommend beginning with this book.  It will be a lifesaver for procrastinators.  It can also give you an edge over the competition, or at least help you keep up.  The ACT can be cracked.  Barron's can help the diligent, dedicated student crack the ACT. <br /> <br />Additionally, the following delineates the strong points of the study guide according to each section of the exam: <br /> <br />English: a succinct grammar review helps the student amalgamate what he or she has learned from the past several years of junior high and high school.  I particularly liked a couple of pages devoted to examples and exercises regarding proper and improper use of commas. <br /> <br />Math:  over 130 pages of review, examples and exercises.  Not much different than many other books, but then again, you also have four Math sections to test your skills. <br /> <br />Reading: I like the way Barron's gives the student strategy and tactics pointers at the beginning of each 'Review and Practice' section and the tips in the Reading section are very well thought out. <br /> <br />Science Reasoning: contains a 'Words You Should Know' section and other relevant, useful advice for tackling the Science Reasoning section. <br /> <br />Overall, Barron's encourages the reader to actively participate while studying the book and if you can't find or can't afford a tutor, Barron's is definitely better than nothing.  econ	2005-02-06
US	49107932	RR5GUX16E7W8G	9834087918	408017893	The Complete Book of Shaolin: Comprehensive Programme for Physical, Emotional, Mental and Spiritual Development	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Allow me to express my gratitude...	...to Wong Kiew Kit.  I really enjoyed reading this book and refer back to it from time to time.  Whether you pick up the book and browse through it once or use it often and even as a catalyst to study with a Shaolin master, I believe that you will be better off. <br /> <br />Obviously the book espouses an Eastern philosophy.  The Complete Book of Shaolin is not just about fighting and in fact, Wong Kiew Kit encourages the reader not to pick fights.  Much of the book is devoted to illustrating different types of moves and exercises designed for sparring.  However, the book also includes other, equally important aspects of Shaolin, including breathing and Zen. <br /> <br />No book can truly teach concepts that require an instructor, but The Complete Book of Shaolin is quite comprehensive and some easy, practical Shaolin exercises can be practiced by the reader with only the book as a guide.  Life, as the title implies, is about more than just our physical selves, and Shaolin is about much more than just kung fu.  I thought the more Eastern 'both/and' philosophy, or principles of completeness and complemetarity, as opposed to the more Western 'either/or' mentality, was expressed well as an underlying theme of the book.  Wong Kiew Kit teaches that it is up to the student to validate whether or not a principle taught by him or another Shaolin instructor is valid.  I found a lot of truth in what Wong Kiew Kit teaches in The Complete Book of Shaolin and I hope to continue verifying what he teaches by learning more from this very approachable, fascinating book.  econ	2005-01-22
US	49107932	R19TXDFVYXQD16	0743251709	829639912	Kaplan GRE Exam 2005 With CD-ROM	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Better than nothing.  WAY better than nothing.	I am unsure why so many reviewers have given negative reviews to this book.  Kaplan is helping you to prepare for the test - Kaplan doesn't administer the GRE.  The CAT GRE is not any fun, and is frustrating for many reasons.  However, I have no complaints about the book and found it to be helpful.  The math formulas and lists of related vocabulary words helped me to figure out problems that I missed when I practiced with paper and pencil.  A decent amount of thought and work went into the book, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to a motivated person willing to try to use it. <br /> <br />The CD does not thrill me much.  It looks like something designed for a fifth grader, and the games do not impress me.  The real advantage of the CD is that you can simulate the exam several times.  The paper and pencil format is very different from the computer based test. <br /> <br />Finally, Kaplan does more than simply give formulas and practice tests.  Strategies for attacking the questions and suggestions for achieving the proper state of mind for taking the test are a few outstanding examples of how they can really help you maximize your score.  Overall, Kaplan's plan for learning how to score higher on the Verbal and Quantitative sections and handling the Analytical Writing sections make the book worthwhile.  econ	2004-11-27
US	49107932	R3LHI18SWULU0S	0060931841	288480034	Rule by Secrecy: The Hidden History That Connects the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons, and the Great Pyramids	Books	5	16	24	N	N	Definitely for the open minded reader	Jim Marrs is quite an intelligent, honest commentator on conspiracy theories and he attempts to uncover esoteric knowledge via various sources.  I had time to read 'Rule by Secrecy' cover to cover - it is difficult to do so.  The book provides an extensive overview of secret societies and attempts to give an alternative view of history.  The problem is that this is impossible to do in one book, combined with the fact that solid proof backing up Marrs' theories is not often forthcoming or can be disputed.  That said, I admire the tenacity, excellent organization, and cogently presented topics of the book.  Marrs provides food for thought and even occasionally hints that the truth is yet to be discovered. <br /> <br />One of the premises of 'Rule by Secrecy' is that an accidental view of history, taught to everyone and accepted by most without having critically thought of the implications, is wrong.  Marrs proposes a conspiratorial view of history (perfectly valid, by the way) to explain world history and our planet's present course.  He weaves together a big picture, conspiratorial view of history by explaining the actions and structure of secret societies, past and present economic systems, past wars and past actions of key political figures, and other tidbits such as \\"Ancient Mysteries\\" (a revealing section at the end of the book). <br /> <br />Marrs makes a reasonable case that \\"a few people run everything\\".  Uttering this type of phrase usually causes a person to be branded as paranoid or worse.  Read this book - then see if you still agree that such a phrase is paranoid.  Given our system of mass media, capitalistic socialism that hints at an ultimate goal of globalism, dynasties passed on from the robber barons with an interest in retaining power and wealth, and two dominant political parties in the United States that always seem to happen to produce candidates and Presidents from secret societies, the book tends to be more believable than one might suspect. <br /> <br />I particularly like the way Marrs ends 'Rule by Secrecy'.  Even if the accidental view of history paradigm is the truth, he encourages the reader to be open minded and become more educated.  No matter what conclusions you reach at the end of the book, the enormous effort and prodigious amount of research and work Marrs gave to the book makes it worth reading.	2004-11-19
US	49107932	R2QJ4EQRH27LQZ	0974580805	329965500	Conflict Unraveled: Fixing Problems at Work and in Families	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The five star rating is well deserved, with a caveat or two	Finally - a book that not only identifies urgent issues, but also outlines how to deal with them.  The book is not a magical prescription to cure all of your ills.  You will have to supply your own medicine (hard, diligent, consistent work), but it will increase your personal power and probably make your life happier.    We all have people problems, but no handbook regarding how to deal with them.  Medea comes as close as anyone ever has to writing a handbook on the art of dealing with the unhappier moments in life involving interaction with other people (conflict).  The book is always going back to how you (emphasize YOU) have to change your behavior in order to deal with people more effectively.  The reader should be able to instantly recognize that he or she has had many of the experiences and feelings Medea describes in the book - within the past week!    Early in the book Andra lays groudwork describing \\"stages\\" of conflict.  She lists four stages and only stage one is healthy (luckily we are not often at three or four!).  Then, the reader is gently prompted to recognize that due to exogenous or endogenous factors (usually a combination of both), we react to people in a way that creates different stages of conflict.  The book covers just enough to prevent boredom or overtechnical analysis, but also gives an ample background for the reader to not only understand interpersonal dynamics, but actually use the information to help resolve conflict and increase productivity in the work place, harmony at home, et cetera.    However, Andra unwittingly creates a conflict of her own with the reader by approaching the topic with a decidedly and undisguised feminist viewpoint.  It detracts from the otherwise excellent social science she has done.  Conflict is not a men versus women issue; differences between the sexes exist but neither is immune to any type of conflict expressed in any kind of way.  It would have been easily possible and preferable not to give one-sided examples that paint women as victims of an oppressive male society.  It may have been more constructive to give some opposite examples (a dominant woman screaming at her passive husband...) to grab the reader's attention and make the topic more poignant.    Altogether the book was well written, easy to understand, and uncovered a range of human behaviors that we all practice and probably do not recognize until a book such as 'Conflict Unraveled' comes along.  From beginning to end Medea uncovers a range of human behaviors that include adrenaline levels, group dynamics (ladder/cluster type organizations), body language, and verbal communication (direct and indirect misunderstandings).  I recommend finding space on your bookshelf for the book.  econ	2004-11-14
US	49107932	R3GA7O9TMQE3QQ	159143033X	906517970	The Terracotta Warriors: The Secret Codes of the Emperor's Army	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Some fresh material, astounding insights	I am ambivalent about the latest book by Maurice Cotterell.  'The Terracotta Warriors' merits a five star rating but I have some reservations about the book.  For those interested in the statues uncovered in China the book is worthwhile.  Since I've read several other books by Maurice, it was a bit of a disappointment because he simply continues the theme of reincarnation and how humans escape to enter a higher state of being, or heaven, or however a person wants to phrase it, with a limited amount of new material.  The appendices contain nothing new, as I recall.   For someone who has not read any books by Maurice, the book will appear to be profound and full of insights that no one but Maurice has realized for hundreds of years (probably with the exception of some limited number of people belonging to secret societies).  For someone who has read other books Maurice wrote, they will find a magnificent explanation of the significance of the Terracotta Warriors: the significance of the number of warriors in each pit, the significance of each type of face (representing different Chinese [written] characters), and so on.  I also enjoyed tidbits such as a page or two devoted to information about Hitler's quest for esoteric knowledge and search for artifacts such as the Spear of Destiny.  Of course, Maurice revealed a profound fact about the number 666 and what humans are made of (perhaps a coincidence, perhaps not). <br /> <br />I highly recommend all of Maurice's books.  For those who have not read Cotterell previously, I might recommend 'The Tutankhamun Prophecies' instead.  For those who have read some of Cotterell's books, I think 'The Terracotta Warriors' is definitely not a waste of time to read, but I wouldn't be in a rush to buy it.  econ	2004-08-28
US	49107932	R7TW9K8WLN8RZ	1591430054	610225738	The Lost Tomb of Viracocha: Unlocking the Secrets of the Peruvian Pyramids	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Not as good as The Tutankhamun Prophecies	Maurice does it again...I don't believe that he will ever write a book that is as good as 'The Tutankhamun Prophecies', but 'The Lost Tomb of Viracocha' reveals more of the great secrets encoded into artifacts by clever ancient peoples.    The book can be read simply as an archaeological or anthropological guide to the lost pyramids of Peru.  The pictures and expanations of the pyramids and artifacts are fantastic (my favorite is the Crab Man).  Cotterell also makes a cogent case regarding the spiritual messages encoded in the burial sites.  The ancient Lord of Sipan, who should not have not more about physics than what can be seen in the heavens at night with the naked eye, knew more about some aspects of physics than our modern science does.  He (and Tutankhamun and the rest of the Supergods) also had sophisticated knowledge about the physical world and its relationship to the spiritual world.    Cotterell has a special talent: finding, presenting, and explaining information that has previously been a mystery.  The 'Lines of Nazca' is an example of this.  Nobody knew who made these lines, many miles long, or why, and then suddenly Maurice says exactly who made them and what the significance of the lines is.  This type of research makes it difficult for mainstream science or any other interested party to remain in a state of cognitive dissonance.  Maurice's books are definitely for the open minded reader.    I highly recommend the book, although it is not a masterpiece like 'The Tutankhamun Prophecies'.  Maurice tends to repeat himself, giving a great deal of old information to his fan base, and at the end of the book goes a little too far in attempting to explain how we escape the reincarnation cycle.  Even after all of his research, we still don't know as much as we don't know.  And who's to say that the path of the ancients is the only one?  Other than that, the book really is a great read.  Hold on for another wild ride in 'The Lost Tomb of Viracocha'.  econ	2004-08-28
US	49107932	R2GY3P70YWAVGT	0226556697	846191489	Crossing: A Memoir	Books	5	18	37	N	N	Anything by McCloskey is worth reading	When I was in grad school I had the chance to take a class from Deirdre [I would technically refer to McCloskey as 'Donald/Deirdre' or simply as McCloskey, and do not use pronouns to refer to the person; however, to simplify and avoid political spin or personal feelings I will refer to the person as Deirdre and use feminine pronouns when referring to Deirdre] and work with her.  Deirdre is the type \\"ENTP\\" in my opinion for those familiar with the MBTI.  And, to be blunt, Deirdre is a genius.  However, geniuses are not always easy to work with or fun to be around.  Deirdre is a complex tangle of abstract theories and creativity, short temper, a bit of depression, moments of deep feeling and sometimes empathy, and always in the middle of some kind of controversy or argument.  Unfortunately 'transgendered' people are probably also in a state of confusion whether they're willing to admit it or not.   <br /> <br />Back when I was in grad school, and actually, before grad school, and up to this point, I do not care who discovers or passes on the truth (truth as in scientific truth).  People are free to do with their own lives what they choose, to an extent.  Deirdre tested the limits of this idea.  Deirdre is a lover of freedom, just like I am, but one has to question whether changing gender should be tolerated.   <br /> <br />Deirdre is the smartest person, by far, that I will probably ever meet in my life, and she is more than willing to pass it on in a way that is readily absorbed by a lesser mind - at least sometimes.  Deirdre has the type of mind that can create a thought that is simple in its essence, yet so complex that analysis and extensions can be done on and on.  The 'Bourgeois Virtue' ideas are a great example of this.  I do not like the feminist track that Deirdre has followed in some of her research, but it's her research, and still worth reading and considering. <br /> <br />Oh yeah, about 'Crossing: A Memoir'?  As I mentioned in the title of this review, anything written by McCloskey is worth reading.  econ	2004-08-28
US	49107932	R1O5H3TQ6NEKSJ	0316880655	3737538	Do What You Are : Discover the Perfect Career for You Through the Secrets of Personality Type--Revised and Updated Edition Featuring E-careers for the 21st Century	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Well done, but room for improvement	I enjoy reading and studying the MBTI and personality theory.  I picked up the Tiegers' book at a book sale and certainly do not regret it.  The book is well written and fills an urgent need: it attempts to help the concerned reader answer the ages old question, what am I supposed to do with my life?  All sixteen types are given ample attention and the book offers many suggestions for pursuing a career based on your personality type.  Each section has detailed, real life examples of successful matches between personality types and careers.<br /><br />However, I have a few concerns about the book that prevent it from receiving a five star rating.  The book does not mention entrepreneurship at all (a minor point).  It also does not give an explanation that I recall regarding how the Tiegers reached the conclusions they wrote about.  In my case I was indifferent to many of the suggestions that they gave as career choices for my type, and was actually turned off to several.  Capability is different than interest.  Another problem is that socialization or other experiences in a person's life may lead to an enjoyable career that is not what a reading of the innate preferences and combination of preferences may suggest.  The Tiegers addressed these concerns...somewhat.  In my specific case I concluded that my potential career goals and career path need to involve different ideas and suggestions than what the Tiegers asserted.<br /><br />That said, I still recommend the book.  Someone who is younger, college or high school age, for example, or someone (probably still younger aged) who is completely unhappy in their job might greatly benefit from reading the book and acting on its advice.  A mediocre resource is probably better than no resource, and Do What You Are is not mediocre - it's good, but not great.	2004-08-07
US	49107932	R2071Y3YS2ZUK9	1890951188	401206130	Leonardo's Incessant Last Supper	Books	5	12	13	N	N	I love da Vinci's Last Supper...and this book	Leo Steinberg wrote a very intellectual, rigorous book about Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper.  I liked the way it gave so many fresh perspectives on how to analyze and interpret the painting.  The genius of the book is that is amalgamates an enormous amount of information about the Last Supper...and somehow leaves you feeling that only part of the information has been uncovered.  It's a feeling of ambiguity; so much has been learned, but we have so much more to discover.  Just like da Vinci would have wanted!  Steinberg is a great author for this subject. <br /> <br />I will leave most of the surprises and delights of the book for you to discover, but consider: Steinberg writes about connections between pairs of apostles in the painting (threes are not only significant, and in fact are probably less significant); he shows how Leonardo possessed an advanced understanding of perspective and created an impossible location; and the book contains an overview of (da Vinci) Last Supper copies throughout history. <br /> <br />I do not recall Steinberg discussing John the Baptist as actually being a woman or more speculative aspects of the Last Supper such as secret society messages.  Leonardo's Incessant Last Supper attempts to give an analysis of the painting that unearths why and how Leonardo da Vinci painted it, and in my view Steinberg comes closer than anyone I have read.  econ	2004-08-07
US	49107932	R1PCVQDNMPSXTL	0316845183	887368262	The Art of SpeedReading People: How to Size People Up and Speak Their Language	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very practical, useful way of reading people types	The Tiegers wrote a book that is appropriate for all, well, types of people.  The book is tremendously well organized.  I have been able to use the information to read people I would otherwise might not have guessed.  The exercises in the book are marginally useful (at least to me), but the techniques are sound and can be applied immediately. <br /> <br />The reader completely unfamiliar with the sixteen types and the Myers-Briggs type indicator (often talking about the types is summed up as 'the MBTI') is not at a disadvantage, because the Tiegers explain each of the eight preferences and give a nice background and summary about the sixteen types later on.  I would be cautious about overgeneralizing people's behavior, and unfortunately unscrupulous readers will misuse the MBTI and the information in the book.  The Tiegers give a nice response to the ethics concern and hopefully those who read the book will use it to improve their lives and relationships and not use the information to abuse others. <br /> <br />As the title suggests, reading people is a bit of an art.  After absorbing the book you will have a solid basis for categorizing people and hopefully a more scientific way of reading their type.	2004-08-07
US	49107932	RXKLWOWMHW1HB	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	5	18	20	N	N	It's okay to be skeptical, but also try to be open minded	The main difficulty with Tony's book and any kind of self-improvement/psychological-motivational book is consistently practicing what it preaches.  I believe that your life will improve if you follow the book's advice.  Unfortunately, for many people, this entails referring to the book daily and fighting habits and thought patterns that may not be so easily overcome as Awaken the Giant Within suggests. <br /> <br />Tony introduces (or probably revisits, for apostolates of his books) neuroassociative conditioning.  The appeal of the techniques or methods that he prescribes is that they can change behavior overnight - even in minutes - if done properly.  The flip side is that we do not have the scientific knowledge and research to prove that Robbins' methods work.  Another problem is that making the methods work for some people (if indeed they can work) may require hiring a consultant in addition to reading the book. <br /> <br />However, I still enjoyed reading the book and find it useful to refer back to it.  Tony Robbins is an amazing and accomplished person.  The most touching aspect of the book is the fact that you know he really wants the best for you, and wants to help you achieve what you want in life, even though he will never meet you.  Obviously he is a positive person, and he refuses to let you believe that something cannot be done.  He gives real life (and plausible) examples regarding how people have been able to eliminate unhealthy habits, overcome enormous difficulties, and find happiness, using various techniques that he describes or has invented or modified himself. <br /> <br />I don't know if Tony is a prodigy or just a spruced up modern version of Dale Carnegie, but if you're in a rut or interested in self-improvement, reading the book can't hurt, and it might help.  econ	2004-08-07
US	49107932	R3LD468BG073ZC	0060959622	195484102	You Just Don't Understand: Women and Men in Conversation	Books	3	9	31	N	N	Very tendentious, difficult to read	I find it unfortunate that Deborah Tannen is the foremost mind on this subject of communication differences between genders.  I have observed the phenomena she wrote about in her book, but have had limited success in using the knowledge to overcome communication problems with women.    She has uncovered an important topic and made it relevant and somewhat accessible to the average interested person.  Tannen deserves credit for that.  However, her approach, obviously feminist (and probably some type of neo-feminism that I do not care to research or think about), taints her writing.  For example, Tannen suggests that because of the way women are socialized to communicate in the United States, they might be better equipped to function and prosper in the business world.  What?  It would be better to say that women MIGHT be cut out for certain functions in the business world, and men for others.  In the information age it's difficult to believe that those who ostensibly communicate to send and receive information (men) are less appropriate than those who communicate to establish a bond or relationship with the other party (women).    I do not recommend the book.  The author should have been more scientific - every page drips with her agenda and it makes the book difficult to read.  It's also filled with personal anecdotes, perhaps meant to make the book more accessible, but it disappointingly detracts from the social science she did.  econ	2004-08-04
US	49107932	R2RGA4L1GT6EQ2	1560251999	805744308	Magic: The Gathering -- Advanced Strategy Guide: The Color-Illustrated Guide to Expert Magic	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Mark is one of the best in the business	When I was a serious tournament player I met Mark in Lincoln, Nebraska.  Mark is a friendly, intelligent, and generous person.  He's a great example of someone who found what he was meant to do in life.  Mark is committed to the game and sharing his knowledge, which he demonstrated when I saw him in person.  He also imparts his knowledge to fellow gamers in this well written book. <br /> <br />Obviously, the book went out of date (in a sense) soon after it was published.  However, it contains a treasure trove of knowledge for the serious player.  Magic is about strategy first and tactics second.  Of course the game will change as WOTC develops new cards and different rules.  I particularly liked the rigorous way the book delineates how to create an effective tournament deck.  Mark also gives great tips about how to analyze new cards (how will that ever go out of date?). <br /> <br />I disagree with the foreward of the book - it states that anyone can become a great magic player with enough hard work.  I've been around and I know that some people are naturally talented at Magic playing and will be better players than everyone else.  However, using the book's advice will probably result in more wins for the committed student and player of Magic.  econ	2004-08-04
US	49107932	R2SE2RFZK6DW7W	0743201140	877422266	Now, Discover Your Strengths	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Very refreshing, decent social science	The book's strength, to turn the tables a bit, is not in its length (less than average amount of words per page, about 250 pages), not in its style (written at a relatively low level), and not in its technical explanations (very little justification and explanation for the theories it proposes).  The strength of the book is how it introduces a new vocabulary for identifying an individual's potential strengths and talents.<br />The reader must go to a web site and take an assessment test rather early in the book.  After the reader takes the test, Buckingham and Clifton work at unraveling old ways of looking at performance and standard practices.  For example, they dare to suggest that the paradigm of improving a person's weaknesses as a strategy to implement optimum performance on the job or elsewhere is faulty.  You may disagree, and you may find the test useless if you take it.  In my instance, the test clearly verfied my areas of talent.  So I gave the book five stars, because it's an amazing groundbreaking book - we now have a way to identify and talk about 34 different groups of human talents - and I don't care how Gallup, Buckingham, and Clifton arrived at the results they did if the results are clearly true, as in my case.<br />Now, Discover Your Strengths doesn't tell you how to find a career based on your top five strengths.  It's a very personal decision, and also impractical, given that about 33 million combinations of five exist.  Buckingham and Clifton give examples of successful people and what they chose as careers, which utilize some combination of their strengths, and other useful suggestions, such as strategies to mitigate weaknesses.<br />Highly recommended.  I never would have known any of this had someone not suggested I read the book, and now a whole new way of looking at myself and the world is open to me.  econ	2002-12-01
US	49107932	RAP1DWPWNE964	0898061822	256465374	The Principles of Scientific Management	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A seminal work	F.W. Taylor is where the serious student of scientific management begins.  I believe that it's one of the best books on the subject that I've ever read - and it was an academic paper presented by Taylor almost 100 years ago.  It's funny at times (and probably not meant to be), written in the academic style of the early 20th century.  His movements back and forth between the theory and real life examples prove that he was one of the better economists of his day.<br />Taylor had humble beginnings (he was a shop laborer early in his career), and later he switched to consulting for various types of manufacturers.  Peter F. Drucker and other scientific management gurus owe Taylor a debt of gratitude, which I'm sure they would readily acknowledge.  All of us owe a debt to him as well.  How can a firm reach greater efficiencies?  Taylor suggested that firms do it in ways that even today are resisted and misunderstood by management.  Increase workers' pay.  Give them mandatory breaks throughout the day.  Timing rest breaks between heavy lifting optimizes productivity.  Please don't ignore these examples in the information age - Taylor was ahead of his time and perhaps even ahead of ours.  Today's intelligent manager can still discover many useful ideas in this book.<br />It's not a terribly long work, and it's fun to read.  I'm surprised that I was able to earn a BSBA without being required to read it, or parts of it.  It's invaluable for firms and workers in any country, developed or undeveloped, and the firms that dare to utilize the ideas will be quite happy with the result: increased productivity, and therefore, increased profits.  econ	2002-08-18
US	49107932	RE980J5KE92P6	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	5	28	34	N	N	At least read it before saying that you don't like it	Herrnstein and Murray's book has 552 pages (not including the appendices), and I bet that I learned something new on almost every page.  The book brought a maelstrom of controversy and attacks when it was published, and be warned, the book is probably the most polemical book out there that is as widespread and written by such distinguished academics.<br />The authors dare to broach the subject of what they call 'g' (some measure of general intelligence - which can be assumed to be distributed via a normal curve when tested on the general population of the U.S. or some subset of the population), and push the envelope, so to speak, to the breaking point, by mixing the idea and measurement of this 'g' with differences in the (our, the U.S.) population according to race, those who have committed crimes, those who have neglected or abused their children, and so on.  The type of social science done in this book is astoundingly good, even though the reader is often left wanting more from a given subject.  On the other hand, covering everything more thoroughly would have soon resulted in not a thick book but many volumes - the 552 pages could have been devoted to just one of the sections.  The research and analysis that the duo did shows a sophisticated level of scholarship - as does the book's style.  The Bell Curve is accessible to the interested and intelligent person, not just a circle of ivory tower academics.<br />The Bell Curve could be used, in my view, as an introduction to statistics and regression analysis.  Statistics is not a difficult subject, but becomes unbearable for some students because it's not explained well.  Herrnstein and Murray wrote appendices that explain types of regression and so on, so the average English professor who has actually decided to read the book may want to read the appendices first.  The numerous charts and graphs in the book are sometimes difficult to decipher at first glance, but the ideas are apparent and written down if the reader cannot interpret the graph.<br />Has anyone thanked the authors for this book?  Murray is the only one that can be thanked at this point (Herrnstein died shortly after writing the book).  The motivated reader will find some uncomfortable insights and truths in the book about society and perhaps his or her self.  It's not without its flaws; but reading the book is a great experience.  Herrnstein and Murray have my gratitude.  econ	2002-08-18
US	49107932	R30S5HTBQ3UW6X	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	17	24	N	N	A tad tendentious, but entertaining	Barbara wrote a compelling book; not a difficult or very long read, however.  She attempted experiments in which she would sustain herself on \\"low-end\\" jobs in different areas of the United States.  Her anecdotes about cleaning toilets (definitely sans clean language, throughout the book in fact) and trying to live in dilapidated, squalid conditions, brought uproarious laughter.<br />After reading most of the book, I expected it to end with the exclamation, \\"Workers of the world, unite!\\"  Actually, it basically did.  I have absolutely no problem with Ehrenreich saying what she has to say and her beliefs, but she has gaps in her reasoning.  For example, she mentions a coworker who wants to work her way up into a better job some day, and then seems not to realize that it happens.  Some of the people with \\"low end/dead end\\" jobs stay stuck there, but many do not, and Ehrenrich seems to assume that all of them stay stuck.  Her real-life \\"experiment\\" was remarkably limited in scope, although attempting to live on a meager income is an innovative and fresh way to discover the \\"hows and whys\\" of low-income workers' experiences and living conditions.  Had she done it longer, she probably would have gotten better at it.  People usually don't try to live somewhere for 2-4 weeks brand new to a city and then stop and move again to a far away city.  Family, friends, and familiarity with a given area, among other factors, can make cheap living possible and bearable.<br />To be sure, take the book with a grain of salt.  The ideas are worth considering, as long as the reader remembers that an issue by definition has TWO SIDES...	2002-04-27
US	49107932	R16QLWIAM8FGLZ	1879181703	480598290	The Tutankhamun Prophecies: The Sacred Secret of the Maya, Egyptians, and Freemasons	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Astounding ideas from a keen mind	Where to begin?  The book has so many ideas in it that a person could go in any direction trying to comprehend the ideas or doing further research into them.  Okay, I'll begin by saying that I really loved this book.<br />Maurice Cotterell has courage, being a scientist that suggests doing science in areas that many condemn as &quot;junk science&quot; (translation: trespassing on mainstream scientists' holy ground).  Cotterell did not necessarily convince me of the radical ideas he proposed, and gave some proof of.  Cotterell was not writing for fellow scientists, although I'm sure he could do so very well.  Among the most convincing ideas, calculating the speed of light in arcminutes rather than taking it as a constant.  Among the least, personality type determined by zodiac signs.  Again, it was written for the layperson rather than the specialist, although the ideas are difficult and sometimes covered too superficially.  Cotterell makes the reader want to do the science to prove or disprove his theories, many of which are quite plausible.<br />Anyone who likes Egyptology will like the book.  Much of the book covers what came out of King Tut's tomb and how everyone until now has missed the significance of the items therein.  For example, included in the mummy's wrappings are 144 objects, a significant number.  The history of the Freemasons directly ties in with the Egyptians and Cotterell reveals some of their secrets.  The mask of Palenque (from Mayan civilization) and Tut's tomb were carefully designed by sophisticated thinkers who wanted to encode their secrets for their later use.  Find out how and why in this amazing book.<br />A decent read for those interested in Physics, Astronomy, ancient civilizations, the arcane, esoteric groups (particularly the Freemasons), alternative ideas in science, symbolism and numbers in different cultures.  econ	2002-04-25
US	49107932	R2EY659Z610I67	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	5	18	21	N	N	You can't go wrong with a book by Thomas Sowell	To begin, whoever tells you that Sowell is an apologist for the free market or capitalism did not comprehend what he wrote in the book.  Sowell tells the reader that capitalism brings different outcomes than socialism does - even though people act efficiently under both systems (act efficiently in different ways).  In fact, Sowell repeatedly says that Economics is about decisions and analysis of what happens and why it does, not a series of value judgements, or even a single one.<br />The book is not written at a terribly high level, but nonetheless is rather rigorous.  That's part of what makes the book so incredibly good.  In fact, Sowell tells you by the subtitle of the book that it's for the average citizen, someone NOT familiar with economic principles (until after they comprehend the book).<br />The book peppers the reader with contrasts between what doesn't work (what most people in the world are used to) and what does work (what Americans are used to, usually).  Use of real world examples is characteristic of a decent economist.  On the SAME hand, Sowell also draws from many other disciplines, not far away from Economics.  For example, History, History of Thought, Economic History, a touch of Sociology, a touch of Law, inter alia.<br />Highly recommended, belongs on your bookshelf.  Fascinating insights about a &quot;boring&quot; subject.  The conscientious reader will probably not look at economic issues in the same way again.  econ	2002-04-25
US	49107932	R3TUJRX5G5T89H	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	51	53	N	N	A book by an economist	The Mystery of Capital is recommended, among others, by no less than Milton Friedman, Ronald Coase, Margaret Thatcher, and William F. Buckley Jr.  That's not why you should read the book.  De Soto examines a necessary and misunderstood topic: why are poor countries poor?  His arguments and insights make the book a necessary read for the economist, or other educated person.<br />The main point of The Mystery of Capital is that the seemingly intractable and hopeless situations in Third World countries is due in large part to one common problem: the issue of property rights.  Macroeconomic policies make piecemeal improvements (or may improve nothing at all). Money is not the source of the wealth in a nation.  Capital is the source of the wealth of nations! Facilitating the proper legal environment is an integral part of the creation and growth of capital, something First World nations had to develop, and something de Soto argues that Third World nations can develop.<br />The book gets a bit dry in the latter half, but is definitely worth the read.  De Soto covers legal ramifications and reforms that will help build a bridge for &quot;dead capital&quot; to be converted to &quot;live capital&quot;.  The Mystery of Capital will be a surprise for some, because of de Soto's synopses here and there about what life is like for those who live in Third World countries, and the enormous amount of (untapped) wealth the people of Third World Nations possess.<br />De Soto is a decent economist, in part because he draws from so many disciplines and sources.  He also did a prodigious amount of observation and collection of data (hardly an ivory tower academic).  If you have an interest in developmental economics, law and economics, entrepreneurship, History of Thought, Economic History (especially that of the U.S.), or political science, among other areas, The Mystery of Capital is especially for you.  I recommend the book to any social scientist - the book is so well done and relevant that you may find yourself developing an interest in any of the above!<br />econ	2001-05-26
US	49107932	R21AXTFBUZDAJL	0812932498	459445383	The American Heritage Illustrated History of the Presidents	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great book for your coffee table	&quot;History buffs&quot; will like this book.  I used it as a sort of supplement for my dismal education in U.S. History.  Beschloss did a decent job of gathering forty-odd synopses of the different Presidents, including very appropriate and interesting photos, and included a short biographical summary of each President (pertinent facts about immediate family and career).  The book is also nice to help the reader assess the &quot;big picture&quot; of American History, from a renegade colony led by George Washington, scrapping for soldiers and supplies, to the world's most prosperous nation and only superpower.<br />Depending on your interest, you'll read the book differently.  The economic perspective is what I looked for in the book, and I was not disappointed.  You will definitely be made aware of the development of Industry, Jefferson's (and others') bad economic policies, and how different Presidents were affected by the ebb and flow of the economy over the last two centuries.  Those who are interested in the wars will probably turn to Lincoln and FDR first, those who want to know more about the Founding Fathers will focus on the first several Presidents, and so on.<br />The book is more of a reference than something you would sit down and read from cover to cover, but is an excellent resource for most of us.  By the way, the articles by and large are by no means tendentious.  Beschloss and the writers undoubtedly went out of their way to be objective.  If you have some extra time on your hands, give it a read.  You probably won't be disappointed.<br />econ	2001-05-26
US	49107932	RIATWGBQFFMDU	1885705026	30470303	Please Understand Me II: Temperament, Character, Intelligence	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Essential read, if you want to consider yourself educated	Keirsey is sort of the Adam Smith of Social Psychology.  Please Understand Me II (different and better than Please Understand Me) synthesizes and draws out what Western Civilization has known since at least the time of the ancient Greeks.  All of us possess one of four general and distinct temperaments, and in turn also possess one of four specific and distinct temperaments from within one of the general groups.  If such a thing as a &quot;handbook&quot; regarding human nature exists, Keirsey's book is it.<br />Please Understand Me II gives a few chapters of background at the beginning (most importantly, the propensities for tool usage and communication, resulting in a simple 2x2 matrix illustration), and then the next four chapters are devoted to each different general temperament: Artisan, Guardian, Idealist, Rational.  The rest of the chapters build on the former, covering Parenting, Childhood, Leadership, inter alia.<br />It's difficult to emphasize how essential this book is to your personal library.  The book is very approachable to the interested and intelligent reader (and according to Keirsey, who WOULDN'T that be...), especially considering Keirsey's rigorous treatment of an important and perhaps even previously neglected area of Social Science.<br />The book may seem mostly theoretical to some, but after reading the book you will probably have no choice but apply the theory you learned to your interactions with others.  Not only is the book helpful as a guide to observing and &quot;reading&quot; people, it also is an excellent tool for self-understanding (and even includes tests to help you determine your specific type).<br />Excellent resource...fascinating topic...masterful treatment of the subject matter.  I wholeheartedly (and thoughtfully, and excitedly, and steadfastly) recommend Please Understand Me II.<br />econ	2001-05-26
US	49107932	RW7AYB6E49NYP	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An epic for the child in all of us	I just read &quot;The Hobbit&quot; for what I've estimated to be the tenth time, and Tolkien never disappoints.  Come visit the Hobbit hole at Bag End, where you're always welcome...journey to the lake under the mountain...cross the enchanted river flowing through Mirkwood...and on to the Long Lake and the Dwarven Mountain overtaken by the evil worm Smaug.  &quot;There and Back Again&quot; is quite the appropriate alternate title.<br />Tolkien synthesized many mythical creatures and stories into his introduction to the Lord of the Rings.  The story was meant for children, and is certainly not a difficult read, but anyone who enjoys fantasy, adventure, and heroism will not be disappointed by Tolkien's marvelous book.<br />Without giving the plot away, the book does have more to it than simply the plot...consider, for example, the obstacles Bilbo and his party face.  Water (it's been suggested before) is a recurring theme.  Also taking into account where Tolkien is from and the time he wrote &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and the Lord of the Rings, some have examined whether the books contain historical allusions.<br />Most, however, leave the academic arguments aside and simply read &quot;The Hobbit&quot; as Tolkien, at least foremost, meant it to be: an escape to Middle Earth, an epic adventure with an unassuming, timid, and at the beginning, most unwilling Hobbit.  Enjoy!  econ	2001-05-26
US	49107932	R2SOPDWKCUGSP0	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a wonderful book	To begin, the translation is absolutely suberb.  It's difficult to tell that it was written in Italian.  Eco's research, writing ability, and story telling were combined to create a wonderful book.<br />The Name of the Rose is difficult to put down...and on the other hand, you may have to put it down once in a while to ponder some of the ideas in the book.  The book is very deep, much more than just a plot.  I've seen extensions of the book mentioned here and there (for example, misogyny) that hadn't previously jumped out at me.  If you have any interest in European History, the Catholic Church, or philosophy, among other topics, you will enjoy this book.  Some of the philosophical ideas in the book challenged me, although a philosophy major might think they're no big deal.<br />I won't specifically mention any details of the plot.  You'll spend some time studying the floor plan of the library, and the monastery as well.  Enough - go find the book and read it!  econ	2001-04-28
US	49107932	R1UNIQL6QULK4B	0684826828	50827974	The Catholic Myth	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not rigorous enough	Greeley tried to make a statistical analysis of just about everything you could think of regarding Catholics approachable, and does a disservice in the way he does it.  No charts!  No graphs!  And Greeley repeatedly mentions &quot;statistical significance&quot;, which is dangerous, because it's so often misconstrued.<br />The quips that introduce each chapter are lively and probably meant to keep the reader going.  I learned a decent amount of facts about Catholics and the C/church, most of which seem to make sense and most of which I agree with.  (Admittedly, much of it did not matter to me one way or the other, but then again, there's something in the book for everyone.)<br />I wasn't prepared for what Greeley wrote at the end of the book.  I just can't go back and read any of his books now, fact or fiction.  All in all, many people would find it dry, those who want a rigorous analysis will be disappointed, and most Catholics would either be offended by Greeley or at least surprised by how forward he is in some ways.  Not a bad book, but not great either.  econ	2001-04-14
US	49107932	R3R015Z894K6NU	0201624583	414624167	Catholics In Crisis: An American Parish Fights For Its Soul	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not really &quot;compelling&quot;...	...as one review describes it.<br />The main (real life) character in the book is a homosexual Jesuit who keeps going back and forth about leaving the priesthood (you guessed it, he ends up leaving).  I felt a bit of contempt for him, and Naughton tried to stay objective, although as a whole the book is slightly tendentious in some ways.  Why write the book if you're uninterested in changing the church?  Given that Naughton is a human being, I'll give him full credit for trying to be fair.  Obviously an enormous amount of thought and effort went into the book.<br />Not that I disliked the book.  It covered a huge range of topics, from the Philosophy of Natural Law Theory to fund raising to divorce to...[name it, and it probably fits if it has anything to do with &quot;Catholic&quot;].  The topics just couldn't be covered in depth, but Naughton does do an excellent service to the merely curious by quipping synopses of what the different characters thought of or talked about.<br />Finally, the book talks about different Catholic subjects that are starving for discussion, but this reader left feeling more frustrated at the &quot;hierarchy&quot;, which will not change any time soon.  The book was written precisely because Catholics from the liberal Washington parish were/are frustrated with the authorities.  Well, all of us are free to stand up and don't say something in this country as a form of protest.  econ	2001-04-14
US	49107932	R30AVGTKCQKTWL	1895629683	295113016	How to Survive Without a Salary: Learning How to Live the Conserver Lifestyle	Books	4	220	222	N	N	Here you have it - a review by a student of economics	I thought that this book was so funny in places that I haven't laughed so hard, so much, for a long time.  Charles is a skilled writer; the book is very readable, intelligent, thoughtful,and well organized.  It contains a copious (even prodigious) amount of tips, for a 200-page book.  Very practical, and at the same time touches on abtruse philosophical areas, especially at the end of the book.<br />Hey, I used to think I was cheap.  This guy is CHEAP.  His anecdotes include waiting for it to rain to take a shower instead of installing indoor plumbing.  He had a big hole in the floor of his entryway, or somewhere in his house, into which the kids and a few guests fell.  He refused to spend one cent covering the hole, until a neighbor told him about a steel grate they threw away years ago, so he went to the dump and found it.<br />The point is that you can learn from a top-notch &quot;conserver&quot;; an applied example I would give is to buy two gallons of milk when it's on sale and freeze one for later use (works well!).  This guy probably drinks powdered milk though.<br />I disagree with his economic analysis; prudence CAN be a vice, as any virtue most certainly is in its extreme, or even overdone.  But Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations is not just about &quot;McPimple Burger&quot; or keeping up with the Joneses.  Any system on a mass scale is going to have gaping faults, and the weaker of us might succumb to our basest impulses.  But perhaps Long goes a bit too far the other way...<br />At any rate, he sounds like an economic anarchist.  Very well thought out book, great advice.  I borrowed the book from the library and laughed about how this guy would have to recommend doing so...and later on in the book he actually does recommend it!  econ	2001-03-31
US	49107932	RRMR2CJ5HZ04Q	0966477855	940795347	The Path: A Practical Guide to Improving Your Life on the Job	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful book for the disillusioned cube dweller.	Seaman wrote an excellent summary of the crazy and illogical business  world.  He's not an apologist for CEOs at all.  This book was written for  someone who really wants something out of life besides collecting social  security after 45 miserable years in the corporate world.<br />He encourages  his readers to find the &quot;it&quot; in their lives - doing what they  were meant to do [e.g., Tiger Woods' &quot;it&quot; is golfing].  Even if  you never find your &quot;it&quot;, you can be happier at work and find  more fulfillment either in the same place or a new place by figuring out  what your purpose is.<br />The book is somewhat superficial (not much depth,  but covers an amazing amount of material).  This insight is meant to be a  compliment, because the book accomplishes exactly what Seaman wanted it to  in a masterful way.  It has the occasional humorous story or joke, but is  also very serious.  College kids probably wouldn't get much out of it,  because they haven't lived long enough, and baby boomers probably wouldn't  get much out of it either, because they've been working too long.  I  happened to read it at the perfect time, so if you're at the start of some  career, especially one that you don't really want to stay in, then it's a  must read.<br />Well written, timely (in this age of job cutting and  downsizing), no need for a Wharton MBA to understand the book.  Thanks,  Rick!<br />Sincerely, econ	2000-08-26
US	49107932	R3ML5HG8KTU2GK	1580621716	842303143	Knock 'Em Dead 2000	Books	2	6	17	N	N	Full of advice that's cheesy and canned	Bad book.  Waste of money.  The resume book is worse.  What Yate doesn't understand is that resumes and HR/recruiter types don't get you jobs.  Talk to the person that you will be working for, or play the numbers game (and  therefore end up unemployed, and delivering pizzas after you give up  looking for a job).<br />He gives scenarios and instructions for you to follow  after certain events, like getting a rejection letter after an interview.   Even if you don't come off sounding stupid after trying something canned  and corny, it's a scenario created by looking for a job the old-fashioned  way, which is the wrong course of action, unless you want to stay  unemployed for a long time.<br />Marvin, this is the beginning of the new  millennium, not the sixties.  You're sitting on a big pile of money that  grows with each edition of your book.  Why don't you re-evaluate whether  you are doing this to help people find employment, or to falsely raise the  hopes of job seekers so you can benefit?<br />The book gives dozens of  testimonials about how people magically got interviews and job offers after  reading the book.  How about printing the stories of thousands of job  seekers that failed, even after reading what is supposed to be the most  wonderful job search book ever created?	2000-07-22
