US	49102993	R32235J1W05C1T	1931859272	730692020	Soldiers in Revolt: GI Resistance During the Vietnam War	Books	5	40	45	N	N	Behind the Walls	Timely new edition of pioneering 1975 study of GI resistance during the Vietnam war. Most younger Americans know about the anti-war movement from first-hand film accounts of the massive marches and sit-ins. Yet far fewer know the extent of  resistance within the armed forces themselves. There are no video tapes of widespread clashes between MP's and GI protesters during war's peak period. Nor is there footage of  crew members demonstrating aboard such elite ships as the USS Kitty Hawk, nor even from blue-collar vessels such as the USS Nitro (a humorous and inspiring episode). Yet the resistance in many instances proved doggedly disruptive. And despite silencing efforts by the Pentagon and its media allies, the war's outcome was seriously affected by thousands of courageous resisters in uniform, who, each in his own way, refused to support a murderous politicians' war.    Cortright exhaustively documents stateside developments from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, to Camp Pendleton, California, plus the role of civilian supporters in facilitating the movement. Coverage of GI resistance in Vietnam is harder to document because of battlefield censorship. Nonetheless, revealing instances of fragging, combat avoidance, and conscience-baring convocations such as Winter Soldier are included and speak volumes. Cortright's approach is sympathetically objective, providing a good birdseye view of what was going on behind the general coverup. Morover, he's careful to point out those cultural factors which intensified resistance, including widespread racism for which black resisters bore the brunt. If there's a downside, it's the absence of subjective, first-hand accounts that would make the reader feel the oppressive weight of the war machine as it attempted to roll over those who would stand in its way. In addition, some material in Part II has dated and perhaps should have been elided, while a 2005 Postscript begs for comparisons with Iraq but proves somewhat disappointing.    Nonetheless, the length and breadth of resistance is meticulously set forth, along with some surprising results -- enlistees were more likely to resist than draftees; the least educated were more likely to physically resist than the more educated. But most importantly, the research shows a rapidly disintegrating fighting force that belies apologist claims that the war was lost because it was fought \\"with one arm tied behind us\\". No, the war was lost because it was one that should never have been fought in the first place, as increasing numbers of those participating came to realize, (not to discount the astonishing will of the Vietnamese people to resist Western neo-colonialism) . All in all, this is an excellent resource for those wondering what  actually went on inside the processing centers, the training bases, and the killing fields during a tumultuous period that in so many ways is still with us.	2005-10-10
US	49102993	R2A1WOBZ1XHNVF	1844670317	689116577	Afflicted Powers: Capital and Spectacle in a New Age of War	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Modesty Attained	Modest effort at situating leftist thinking in wake of 9/11 and Soviet collapse. Work appears aimed at select audience familiar with postmodern concepts such as \\"spectacle\\" and \\"doubling\\". Readers unfamiliar with such esoterica should be wary since book makes little effort to clarify these and other key analytic ideas. Individual chapters range from excellent neo-accumulationist \\"Blood for Oil\\" to dubiously psychoanalytic \\"Future of an Illusion\\" concerning Israel-USA dependency. A key claim: that spectacle such as the symbolically loaded 9/11 has exposed empire's Achilles heel is an arguable claim at best, given wave of jingoism ay home and widespread sympathy abroad. Even so, the idea is worthy and deserves follow-up.    There's some good background here, particularly to Islamic fundamentalism, while the accumulationist argument is both timely and provocative. Nonetheless,  the  work leaves too many points either obscure or underdeveloped, particularly those on Islam, modernity and terror. My impression is that the slender volume doen't quite succeed as either lengthy pamphlet or abbreviated book. Thus overall results are in basic accord with the authors' modest aims.	2005-09-19
US	49102993	RJH49Q0JGTGEV	0451403878	309743232	Murder Machine (Onyx True Crime)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Gripping	Riveting journalistic account of organized crime operation in 1970's Brooklyn.  The narrative is as revealing for what it doesn't say as for what it does. Victims disappear by the score, yet there seems little police interest or follow-up, even with civilian unfortunates who fall innocently afoul DeMeo killing machine. It's a laudable effort at de-glamorizing wiseguys, but may go too far by eliminating flashy features that make \\"the life\\" so seductive, leaving reader to wonder why anyone would get involved in the first place.     Two key points. Last third bogs down in unnecessary detail, in contrast to streamlined general narrative. ( Too much on relations between authorities and Dom's family; too much abrupt segue from one witness development to next which, given large cast of characters, gets confusing.) Also, too much of book's credibility depends on one source, Dom Montiglio, as other reviewers note. In absence of footnoting, reader can only trust judgement and integrity of authors. Critical readers would expect Dom to tell most self-serving version of the facts but hopefully not at expense of the facts. I would feel better had authors openly discussed this issue. The Prologue is where the problem should have been discussed; yet it's not, which amounts to a serious omission that leaves much of text open to question. Nonetheless, those reviewers who claim falsified facts need to back up their claims-- 1,000 words here should be room enough to document Dom's real service record, for one.     Yes, graphic details of assassinations are revolting and heinous. But at least killers did own dirty work, and with dispatch (no apparent signs of the torture fairly common among mafia-style executions). It's easy to condemn the gang to lower levels of Hades as punishment. Yet there's the kind of white-collar crime-- the looting of pension funds, for one-- that too often produces a kind of slow-motion, agonizing death from stress and worry. That too is a form of homicide, butunlike DeMeo gang, is conducted from safe distance where victims never see or know names of their assassins. It's harder for many folks to make  ethical connection here, but it's one that needs to be made. I don't claim the two types of immorality are precisely equivalent. But it does appear that the DeMeo's may have more company on lower levels of perdition than many folks think.	2005-09-06
US	49102993	R2VU7OCYGJEV5Z	038533429X	439139466	Dino: Living High in the Dirty Business of Dreams	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Show-Biz Surfer	Disturbing portrait of an entertainer who glided effortlessly across the national scene for some thirty-five years, whether on stage, screen, or poly-vinyl. All in all, it's not a flattering picture. From what emerges, it's hard to say whether Martin was a supreme egotist, a jaded cynic, or more simply, a  hollow man for whom life was little more than a sucker's game not to be taken seriously. His near pathological aversion to seriousness of any sort suggests inner demons of some sort. Whatever the reality, he did manage a highly successful career and on his own terms. The biography focuses on the professional phase, with scant material on private or family life. In fact, outside of a quick wit and dark good looks, its hard to account for what magnetism he projected among friends and family. But then maybe that was enough. I like the way Tosches tries to capture some of that remote inner life through literary imagery. Though excessive at times, it's an imaginative way of trying to reach what otherwise remained so carefully hidden. The frequent use of gutter profanity and untranslated Italian phrases is, at times, off-putting, but lends authentic  atmosphere and flavor to what otherwise might become a routine \\"cut-and-paste\\" profile. I wish there were more material on the Martin-Lewis break-up and on Rat Pack misadventures which, as news items of the day, are passed over rather too summarily. Still and all, this remains an unflinching portrait of a man, so familiar to several generations, but whose quiet private moments can only be guessed at.	2005-08-22
US	49102993	R3E14MNCHK78MU	0195173384	535906118	The New American Militarism: How Americans Are Seduced by War	Books	5	13	22	N	N	High-Speed Express	The US may have been an expansionist and aggressive power as history shows. But unlike  European peers, the American public never really took to the seductions of militarism. That is, until now. This is an important and occasionally brilliant book that tells a forty-year tale of creeping over-reliance on the military. And a heck-of an important story it is. I like the way Bacevich refuses to blame the Bush administration, even though they're the ones who've hit the accelerator. Actually the trend has been in motion for some time, especially since 1980 and Reagan's revival of military glory, contrived though it was.  <br /> <br />Each chapter deals with an aspect of this growing militariism movement. How intellectual guru Norman Podhoretz and other elites got the big engine together, how twenty million evangelical passengers abandoned tradition and got on board, and how a crew of enthusiastic neo-cons charted a destination -- nothing less than world democracy guaranteed by American military might. All in all, the ride passes for a brilliant post-cold war move. Who's going to argue with freeing up the Will of the People, except for maybe a few hundred million Sharia fanatics. Yet, it appears none of the distinguished crew sees any contradiction between dubious means and noble end, nor do they seem particularly concerned with what anybody else thinks. (Sort of like the old Soviets, eager to spread the blessings of Scientific Socialism.) However, as Bacevich pounts out, there's a practical problem here the crew is very alert to. Policing the world means building up the institutions of the military and providing a covering mystique to keep John Q. Public supportive, especially with tax dollars and blood supply. In short, the mission requires sanitizing the cops on the beat and all that goes into keeping them there. It also means overcoming a long American tradition of minding-one's-own-business and letting the virtues of democratic self-governance speak for themselves. But then, that was an older, less \\"responsible\\" America. <br /> <br />Bacevich's remedies harken back to those older, quieter traditions -- citizen soldiers, a real Department of Defense, a revived Department of State, and a much more modest role in international affairs.With this book, Bacevich proves to be one of the few genuine conservatives around, (a breed disappearing even faster than the ranks of genuine liberals). Much as I like the book, especially the thoughtful Preface, I wish the author had dealt more with the economic aspects of build-up and conquest. But then that might require a whole other volume, as globalization and the number of billion-dollar servicing industries expands daily. At day's end, however, someone needs to inform a CNN- enthralled public that the military express lacks one essential feature. With all its hypnotizing bells and whistles, history shows the momentum has no brakes. Lessons from the past  indicate that, despite the many seductions, aggressive empires make for some very unexpected and fast-moving train wrecks. Somebody needs to raise the alarm. Thanks Mr. Bacevich for doing your part.	2005-08-12
US	49102993	R1H0NZPH2Y0C8O	0471694797	670775105	War Made Easy: How Presidents and Pundits Keep Spinning Us to Death	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Spinning Ourselves to Death	We topple governments, devastate roads, bomb power plants, water supply, and anything else that breeds independence, all in the name of bringing democracy. It's not easy pretending to lead a beneficent Free World, while  running a ruthless global empire. Perception management is needed. Solomon catalogues a number of control mechanisms, which are more like self-serving homilies. Thus, the story is told in chapter headings detailed by the text -- \\"America is a Fair and Noble Superpower\\", \\"They Are the Aggressors, Not Us\\", Opposing the War Means Siding with the Enemy\\", et al. The sum total amounts to a massive rationale allowing empire to intervene again and again under the guise of advancing democracy, while a befuddled American public stumbles through the maze of platitudes, wanting desperately to believe no matter what their eyes or ears tell them.    The book presents a highly readable account of forty years of imperial interventions and deceptions, and how these are retailed to an American public who must pay the price in blood and taxes. All the high-profile engagements are present, including some not so high-profile, particularly the neglected 1966 foray into the Dominican Republic whose reformist president Juan Bosch struck fear into the heart of Washington's imperial managers. A snippet of secret transcript reveals the true mind-set of President Johnson, contrary to the rosy rhetoric then being fed to the rest of us. (I love the way these guys talk when they think no one else is listening.)    The book is more a compilation of ironical fact than analytic discussion. More of the latter, I think, would have provided better insight. Still and all, the facts reveal a fascinating tale of political hypocricy and deception aided and abetted by a compliant corporate media. On the down side, the chapters follow in no particular order, while I get the impression that Solomon put the book together from previous writings. More importantly, a summational last chapter in place of the brief Afterword would have sharpened the focus and assembled the high points which otherwise tend to scatter. Nonetheless, the author remains one of the most astute and uncorrupted observers of the media scene, while this update of  imperial spin provides  useful rescue for those still trapped amidst the maze of popular platitudes.	2005-07-29
US	49102993	R10PM7JQVLUVFN	0671017063	224080330	The Cases That Haunt Us	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Old Wine -- New Bottles	Moderately interesting treatment of famous unsolved cases. Main interest for experienced readers lies in application of behavioral profiling to notorious murders from Jack the Ripper to JonBenet Ramsey. For more casual readers, book serves as compact introduction to several classics from  true crime canon. Douglas pioneered much of  profiling methodology for the FBI and is thus highly regarded in many circles. Here he must rely on historical records for the vintage cases, so, despite the new technique, there remains a tinge of warmed-over stew. Nonetheless, his profiling is able at times to open up new slants.     For example, it's hardly daring to point out that Jack the Ripper must have been insane to have killed in the way he did. It is riskier, however, to argue that on the basis of profiling, he could not have functioned in a sometimes normal way, which would rule out popular Jekyll and Hyde theories since there could be no Jekyll side to this highly disordered mind. Not a startling conclusion but a plausible and refined one nonetheless.    The only real mystery in the Borden case is not whether Lizzie did it, but instead how she did it. Douglas offers little insight into this fascinating aspect, still his proposed strategy of  how to interrogate this paragon of Victorian repression should be of interest.     The book's best chapter, I believe, concerns the Lindbergh kidnapping. Here Olshaker's narrative skills come to the fore as the chapter amounts to a gripping account of a complex story that literally shook the nation. I don't know how much Douglas advances our understanding, but it does make for a fascinating read.    The chapter on the Zodiac killings should be red meat for profiling. So it's a disappointment that his observations are too often vague and pedestrian, adding little to what is already known.This seems a case that could have been solved had there been better police work, such as correlating the northern and southern California phases more thoroughly. More than any other chapter, this one smacks of a stale retelling of an oft-told tale.    Without doubt, Douglas does his reputation no favors in the final chapter. I don't object to the personal involvement with the Ramseys, nor even to the ill-advised taking of money from them. What is objectionable is the categorical position he takes concerning their innocence. This is a betrayal not only of the case itself but of the objective tone that the book as a whole has wisely established.  It's as though the judge of a case suddenly throws aside his robes and becomes a Perry Mason for the defense. At bottom, the facts of the crime are simply too conflicting for anyone to draw hard and fast conclusions of any kind. Moreover, as page 411 indicates, too great an emphasis is placed on a first meeting with John Ramsey, where Douglas becomes convinced of the father's credibility -- a rather hasty conclusion for such a seasoned investigator. That being said, some interesting profiling aspects are raised which have to be considered in the Ramsey's behalf. Still and all, despite Douglas' failure to deal with counter evidence, there is simply too much of it to justify any sort of blanket exoneration. (For example, the possible role of ten-year old brother Burke in the crime appears not to have been seriously considered. Yet his participation would explain many puzzling features, including the apparent coverup and the resolve of John and Patsy to tell a convincing story. I realize this is a dicey subject, but then this was a dicey crime.) Anyway, those looking for a  more balanced and forensic approach should check out Cyril Wecht's \\"Who Killed JonBenet Ramsey\\".    All in all, the book is a worthwhile addition and an interesting read, for which Mark Olshaker deserves more credit than he usually gets.	2005-07-19
US	49102993	R2XGCKABR1WYN6	0804113106	50090303	Enforcer: Spilotro: The Chicago Mob's Man Over Las Vegas	Books	2	8	8	N	N	My Mind Wanders	Good object lesson in how Amazon reviews can save you money. I bought my copy on impulse, off the shelf. Fortunately, I only wasted $10. Considering today's book prices, it could have been more. Yes, the book is as ill-conceived and meandering as overwhelming number of  reviews indicate. Unfortunately, there's precious little evidence of research anywhere in the text. No need to repeat points already made and so glaringly present in the book.  Experience is a little like sitting with a good ol' boy at a boozy party, who can't wait to tell you all about rosy memories and great guys from days in the FBI, and, oh yeah, something about some guy named Spil ott ro, or was it Spil oh tro.	2005-07-05
US	49102993	R5BJKS4NJVIJZ	0932863388	9812747	WHAT THE MARKET DOES TO PEOPLE	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Useful	Poverty persists despite a rising GDP. How can this be. David Macarov's heavily footnoted work attempts an answer to the conundrum in a relatively short space of 170 pages. Basically, he attributies aggravation of problem to institutional frameworks undergirding globalization and privatization, or, put another way, to those institutions processing the resurgence of laissez-faire capitalism. Thus, the work contains considerable data with which to challenge what some like to term The New World Order. Not only has neo-liberalism failed to improve the lot of the poor, he points out, but statistics indicate their lot has worsened as a result of heralded neo-liberal programs. So there is much here to digest. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, the historical aspect is not neglected. Chapter VI deals explicitly with previous programs aimed at easing or eliminating problems of poverty.That these have largely failed comes as little surprise, since Macarov occasionally asserts there can be no wealthy class without a poverty class to exploit. Yet the work contains very little economic theory, contrary to what some might expect. Rather the slender volume functions best as an overview of the problem, replete with facts and figures, and as a clearing house for related literature. Its breadth may also work well as an introduction if the reader is not expecting a treatment that popularizes. (I like the way he illustrates the slippery nature of defining \\"poverty\\", and how statistics, particularly \\"averages\\", can be manipulated.)  <br /> <br />Two noteworthy reservations. I think Macarov feels the root cause of poverty resides in capitalism itself, with its dynamics and exigencies. But this is never made clear. Thus readers can't be sure whether poverty is an inevitable consequence of the market or merely an unrefined byproduct -- surely a key distinction for addressing the problem. Also -- and less significantly --  Clarity Press did readers no favor by using what must be a size 6 font to print the text. So please pass the bifocals! <br /> <br />	2005-07-01
US	49102993	R2JSZ0YJO29A0Y	0814408680	164293636	Outsourcing America: What's Behind Our National Crisis and How We Can Reclaim American Jobs	Books	3	29	34	N	N	Gentlemanly	So where have all the good jobs gone. As most know, the blue-collar ones shipped off in the 80's to low-wage economies, such as Mexico and South Korea. No one on high said much at the time, the idea being that uppity manufacturing unions were finally getting a deserved take-down, at the same time few bothered to look at bombed-out venues like Michael Moore's Flint, Michigan. But now it's white-collar jobs being outsourced, and in record numbers. Now some of these same remote elites are starting to sound alarmed as the job razor shaves ever closer to home.<br /><br />The Hiras' book reflects some of this attitude. Above all, it's a gentlemanly indictment of a disastrous economic policy that has been hollowing out the country faster than Ross Perot's \\"giant sucking sound\\" from 1992. It's really a rather tepid account of what many Americans already know: that outsourcing is not good for America. Not only does outsourcing trade good jobs for bad ones (if you can get one at all), it undermines families, communities, the economy generally, and, most ominously, destroys purchasing power, the engine of modern growth. But the question whether a Walmart on every block is worth that cost is never really asked.<br /><br />I would have liked the book better had it dug a little deeper into the financial forces driving the current race to the bottom, or had done a better job of spotlighting just who's benefiting from the rip-off. As it stands the book works well enough as a talking-points primer, but not much beyond that. The ten suggested reforms are all conventional enough, seeking more to ease the problem more than remedy it. Perhaps the moderate wing of the Democrat Party might give them a listen. Above all, the book is a nice safe token of respectable dissent, suggesting that even conservative policy-makers are having second thoughts on what a Third World America might look like, or more importantly, act like. I just wish this were the kind of work that kept them awake at night.	2005-06-19
US	49102993	RJJGL3O3FTXFX	1567512461	233185961	Oil, Power, & Empire: Iraq and the U.S. Global Agenda	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Still on Target	Good briefing on run-up to Iraq war. Now a bit dated (Sept. 2003), so doesn't include much on rise of Iraqi resistance. Still, the history sections on colonialism in Mesopotamia make for an informative background to current quagmire. Noteworthy also for detailed account of horrendous effects of US-UN sponsored sanctions, surely one of the great crimes of recent history. Book's thrust fits well with US's strategic drive to dominate planet, using oil as key control lever.Though not an \\"in depth\\" treatment, all the relevant bases are covered, particularly the deceptions used to cover the criminal invasion. There's also a handy appendix capsulizing the salient deceits for quick reference. Those expecting a strong ideological denunciation from Mr. Everest may be disappointed. Although his characterization of imperialist designs is straightforward, I think it's fair to say that the book could have been written by a muck-raking liberal. Recommended for ease of access and breadth of coverage.	2005-06-07
US	49102993	R148ZYDGSAUGMC	0816040176	35056546	Forbidden Films: Censorship Histories of 125 Motion Pictures (Facts on File Library of World Literature)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disappointing	Of interest mainly as a reference source, but a risk for the casual reader. Each of the 125 entries contains a summary of the film's context, a sketch of the censorship travails, and a brief bibliography -- encompassing on the average, one to three pages for each entry.  Considering the subject-matter, the discussion style remains curiously colorless and detached. Despite the suggestive title, there's clearly no exploitation of the contents. And yet, the text could use some pepping up -- well-chosen photographs would have helped. Moreover, there's no apparent logic behind the films chosen for inclusion, no particular point to the \\"sampling\\", and since many of the entries are obscure to the average film-goer, its value as a reference is restricted. Nonetheless, for someone wanting an easily encompassed glimpse of film censorship world-wide, the book may fit the bill.	2005-05-23
US	49102993	R3GEJGMR3SXGQB	0060589957	918070082	Black Dahlia Avenger: A Genius for Murder	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Another Round	Despite Hodel's aggressive assertions, the Black Dahlia remains a mystery. Just as mystifying is why this loosely structured, heavily padded, and poorly reasoned book still manages to be a fairly fascinating read and retain some merit. I suspect it's because of the classic Raymond Chandler setting and noir-like glimpse of LA, from the gilded suites of Beverly Hills to the mean streets of downtown. Throw in an exotic  house built like an  opium-den, a sinister dragon lady (Kiyo), a wicked villain (George) and an Igor-like assistant (Sexton), and you have icons from dozens of screenplays and paperback novels. Together these atmospherics pull in the reader at the same time the real evidence, usually unnoticed, gets stretched thinner and thinner.    Had the author really wanted to build a case against daddy George, he should have picked a better editor. What actual evidence there is needs to have cumulative impact instead of  scattering loosely across 500 ill-sorted pages. A better editor would have eliminated the load of extraneous detail, and organized what's left. The way the material stands, the chapters follow no discernible order, managing to succeed one another in unpredictable, haphazard fashion that tends to blur the case rather than define it. For example, the thirteen pages dealing with the author's relationship with the mysterious Kiyo lend atmosphere, but what exactly is the relevance to the case? Despite Kiyo''s earlier relationship with daddy George, I could find none. Similarly, for the chapter on The Hinkies. So George had contact with the LA underworld of the twenties.  In fact, thousands of casual gamblers, drinkers, and bootleggers rubbed shady elbows during this period. Left unattached, what exactly does this chapter demonstrate other than background innuendo.     Then there is the extensive list of purportedly related murders. Here I sympathize with Hodel's misgivings about police methods and serial killers. Departments of old resisted sharing information, especially in Balkanized LA. The trouble is the book forces these cases into groupings that have little or nothing in common. Except for the Lipstick murder, the others appear to serve as little more than lurid embroidery. For example, the Spangler-Boomhower bodies were never found, which is completely unlike the grotesque display of the Dahlia's corpse, and yet both are listed as Category I ( highly related). I don't pretend it's all as easy as this, but what the author or his editor should have included is an appendix where such highly speculative evidence could be separated from meatier parts of the case. As these chapters stand, they mainly furnish ammunition to critics and little else. It's important to note that such sections make up the bulk of the book, and are not elements which, once assembled, fit into a compelling case against daddy George. Instead they amount to free-floating innuendo and little more.     No doubt the case's biggest handicap is the author's bald and unjustified claim that Dad's art photos are in fact those of the Dahlia, thereby establishing a secret link between them. On what basis does he demonstrate this other than by raw subjective comparison. On the other hand, by what better methods do his critics (Amazon reviewers by the dozens) base their equally bald counter-claims. It seems to me there's enough structural resemblance in these photos to warrant closer scientific examination, and until then nothing substantive one way or the other can be asserted. The fact that the author makes so much of this \\"evidence\\" is his own fault, and accomplishes little other than to provide critics with premature reason to reject his case (usually gleefully), whatever the ultimate merits.    And that's the trouble. His case cannot be simply dismissed despite the many flaws. The handwriting analysis certainly merits further attention and cross-checking. Moreover, recently revealed police records showing daddy George was under official surveillance has to be taken seriously. In this same vein, the Department needs to come clean with all its evidence from the era, flattering or not. This is the book's positive side, and Hodel could help by showing he's interested in a balanced investigation that might exonerate Dad, not just convict him. For example, why not examine the records for whether Doctor George was in town on any of the nights in question. If such records don't exist, then say so. Or why not check whether the Phillipines ever had an extradition treaty with the US. If there is none, then likely this intelligent man wasn't locating there to escape prosecution. Without at least the appearance of even-handedness, critics remain justified in believing the author's case was skewed from the outset.    Finally, I think he does have the bare bones of a case here. The paradoxical problem is the book  doesn't bolster his claim. Instead, it detracts. For if the evidence were weighed objectively, there wouldn't be enough to fill a book, let alone a best-seller. How ironic for the case that an interesting lead would be undercut by its own commercial over-reach. Perhaps this shows once again there's no end to the twists and turns from that  LA night long ago. Then too, perhaps Hodel's work proves the murder has finally passed from the realm of forensic fact into that of morbid imagination. Either way, you pays your money and you takes your chances.	2005-05-22
US	49102993	R24B1LLXFCV4BE	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Timely Reissue	Several points generally under-emphasized or overlooked in the previous 215 reviews, (Yes, I read them all). <br /> <br />Smith's book should be titled: \\"The Case Against God versus The Case for Naturalism\\", since It's really a hybrid work that mixes arguments against God (and god) with Smith's own preferred brand of metaphysics, viz. naturalism. At certain points, this hybid mixture weakens his case against theism, suggesting that a strictly skeptical approach which embraces no alternative metaphysic would have been more effective. After all, the critic doesn't have to present his own version of ultimate reality (if there is one) in order to refute the theist's. <br /> <br />Parts One and Two represent an excellent profile of classical arguments against not only the Christian conception of God, but of its basis in faith as well. These two parts, along with the final chapter, amount to the book's strongest sections. Readers looking for a lucid, non-technical exposition, with a clear sense of the essentials, if not the subtleties, will be rewarded (though he does play somewhat fast and loose with the vexed subject of sense-perception). Then too, his arguments concentrating on the semantics of the God-concept come closest to more modern methods which originate in semantics rather than from the metaphysics of rationalism (that Reality in all times and places must conform to the Law of Contradiction). <br /> <br />Part Three, on natural theology, i.e. reasoned arguments for god (lower case), is also of value for bringing out the essentials, but I'm more skeptical of its worth for several reasons. First, he presses an infinite regress against the Cosmological Argument but fails to bring out standard theist rebuttals, i.e. \\" that \\"cause\\" applies only to beings in space and time. Moreover, Smith fails to include perhaps the most interesting of theist proofs, the Ontological Argument, which purports to prove god's existence from the concept alone. It may be he believes Section 2 of Part 1 deals adequately with that argument, but if so, he should have so mentioned. Finally, he severely weakens his presentation at several points by bringing in the so-called Law of Identity as a counterpoise to certain theist claims. Yet this \\"Law\\" is itself an illicit import from Aristotelian metaphysics and thus requires proof of its own. This is especially the case in the Argument from Design. <br /> <br />The first chapter of Part Four, the final part, amounts to a promotional plea for an Ayn Rand brand of ethics. There's nothing inherently wrong in this, except the book reaches a philosophic low on pages  285 - 288, where Smith claims there is no real problem in deriving values from facts, (or,put another way, deriving an \\"ought\\" from an \\"is\\"-- a move required for converting ethics into a science -- it's also illuminating that he calls on the dubious authority of his mentor in trying to finesse the point). Nonetheless, this claim is an out and out travesty of western philosophy since the time of David Hume and does a genuine disservice to the unwary reader. It's also playing fast and loose with a watershed issue of modern moral philosophy and those who disagree with a \\"science of ethics\\". <br /> <br />Despite the previous chapter, the book's final chapter \\"The Sins of Christianity\\" is a rigorous and uncompromising debunking of Christian ethics that does not depend on Randian presuppositions, and is bound to challenge the smug pieties of liberal and fundamentalist alike. In a brief span of 30 pages, Smith delivers the kind of well-reasoned critique that should be required reading for every Christian believer, clergy and laity alike. It's powerful, and provoking to all who believe that Christian ethics necessarily creates a more humane society. Quite the opposite, he argues, laying out the case in compelling detail. For this  alone, the book is worth the read -- because, for darn sure, you'll never, never see or hear anything like it on our religiousor commercially controlled airways. <br /> <br />Whatever our differences, atheists of all stripes clearly need to stick together as the forces of flat earth fundamentalism gather strength world wide. Thanks, Prometheus publishers for this timely reissue.	2005-05-15
US	49102993	R2TIZNAXB2T6PI	0375411283	331413461	The New Biographical Dictionary of Film	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Eccentric Gem	A sometimes maddening work that invents its own genre -- neither dictionary nor encyclopedia nor film criticism nor any other known category. Instead it's no less than one man's critical reflections on major figures from the length and breadth of world cinema, alphabetically listed from Abbott and Costello to Terry Zwigoff. Whew! (Where did he ever get the time since no staff is acknowledged?) All the majors are present including non-Americans, along with \\"second thoughts\\" on Ford, Capra, and others. Moreover, the new edition updates older ones by adding a fresh generation of movie-makers as special interest to younger readers. Also present: major figures from off-screen, including such seminal contributors as cameraman John Alton, writer Ernest Lehman, and giving-the-devil-his-due, notorious studio boss Harry Cohn.     Yes, it's a big book (989 pps.)-- most of the entries requiring no explanation. Still and all, Thomson needs to give us at least some idea why he included some marginal players, while excluding others. Why, for example, the distinctive and deserving Elisha Cook Jr., but not the equally distinctive and deserving Percy Helton whose gnome-like presence and raspy voice boosted many a 50's second feature. Sure, a discussion like this has no real resolution. Nonetheless, the question becomes an issue when Thomson devotes four full columns to non-movie, television star Johnny Carson, who may be a giant of popular culture, but whose only film credit is a single Connie Francis flick! So Carson comes at the expense of several deserving marginal players with real film credentials, including perhaps favorites of your own. (Mine being the luminescent and painfully sensitive Gail Russell, dropped from this edition.) Anyhow, there's a legitimate issue here that the author should address.     Nonetheless, there are good reasons why this series has endured. Above all, Thomson has the courage of his convictions, unafraid to challenge received wisdom or conventional opinion, which means that every page may hold a surprise. (His revisionist appraisal of the universally revered John Ford should by now qualify as a classic.) Couple that with some of the liveliest prose around, plus a remarkable talent for distilling an essence into a short space, and an unusual approach to the movies results. Also, it's one of those rare books that can be read cover-to-cover or in snatches with equally satisfying results. Sure, there is a lot of grist for argument throughout -- in my view he overrates Clint Eastwood, Gary Cooper, and even Bob Mitchum, (he admires strong, silent types), and underrates Kubrick, but is dead-on with Ford. Still and all, this is a good book to set the critical juices flowing, and rightly deserves a fourth edition.	2005-04-26
US	49102993	R32Q0F6V0A8803	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A Public Confessional	One man's wake-up call to the evils of empire, and a must-read book. Minimize the sometimes soap-operish overtones, or the occasional tropes that make it feel like the first draft of a Hollywood screenplay. Minimize too, a lifetime of soul-searching that appears to have advanced little beyond New Age totems and an idealized version of the Founding Fathers. Instead concentrate on the volumes an inside man reveals about the workings of modern day empire. Debt-trap literature has been around for years, but now an insider confirms the tale and a sorry tale it is: The purposeful distortions, the inflated statistics, the systematic prostitution of professionals, the gilt-edged sewer. This is a pipeline of money whose only object is to fatten those who live off the trough at the same time entire countries are indentured into a hopeless future. Think about what's really behind the super slick p-r images that bombard us daily, or the way Rush Limbaugh and Co. divert attention from corporate America. Thanks Mr. Perkins for the gutsy expose' , and the next time someone complains about Third World conditions, or Washington's largesse, refer them to this, the real story they'll never see on the 6 o'clock news.	2005-04-17
US	49102993	R3NQXI25EEYSS	1856499383	403124909	Globalization Unmasked: Imperialism in the 21st Century	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Vital	Despite the superficial review below, Globalism Unmasked is neither warmed-over cliche nor Third World chauvinism. The fact that some classic themes carry over to the New World Order, while some do not should surprise no one. Which do, and which don't, however, may. Those readers interested in situating Marxist analysis within the New World Order should find the text both stimulating and rewarding. In fact, \\"globalization\\", or its semantic equivalent, is on the lips of just about everyone, while the idea dominates trendy discourse. But the question remains: how is this concept being popularly understood and what are the facts surrounding its sudden emergence. The book's project is to shed some light on these crucial issues.<br /><br />Clearly, globalization is being sold as an irresistable process, driven by new technologies that make an empire of global capital impossible to avoid. The practical upshot is that resistance should be understood as futile, no matter how negatively a person's life is being affected. The ideological value of this manuever should be obvious, while the value of its debunking should be even more so. Moreover, many on the left have bought into this thesis, rendering the book's counter-thesis a particularly important and timely one.<br /><br />Behind the buzz-word, the authors insist, lies the old process of imperialism, or Euro-American exploitation. So the wine hasn't changed, only the semantic bottles. Given all the nonsense about an end of history, this is a contention worth considering, and it's the book's burden to defend the thesis. (How well it succeeds should be up to the reader to judge.) But at least, their analysis caused me to re-examine what's behind popular use. Too often globalization is taken as a process driven solely by technology, apart from those social forces in whose interest the new tools are operating. In short, popular usage is encouraged to assume a technological determinism instead of a class-bound determinism, thus closing off alternatives to capitalist consolidation. Or, to risk oversimplifying, it's computers dictating the global process, not corporate greed. As a result, unmasking the concept has the value of reopening alternatives based on the interests of classes other than the capitalist, alternatives which can then serve as a platform for renewing struggle against global cosolidation. And while this is not exactly the argument the authors use, I believe it's one way of understanding their position.<br /><br />There are relatively fresh topics scattered throughout. For example, NGO\\"s have emerged as a recent international development, and despite their laudatory press, the text reveals  unsparingly the actual role these agencies play in assisting global imperialism. That alone is worth the read. Moreover, the final chapter situating socialism in a post-cold war environment is anything but a stale left-over. Anyone curious about the direction of socialist thinking, given the Soviet experience, should find this discussion of genuine interest.<br /><br />A key reservation lies in the often high level of abstraction with which the text operates. Specifically, the book is weak on particular case studies. Too often, as in Chapter Four dealing with privatization, the text cuts loose from the sort of case studies that would strengthen the chapter's thesis. Still and all, I don't believe the authors intended this as a scholarly work even though the text draws from a scholarly background. Instead, it's an ideological work intended to reveal the real nature of so-called globalization, and when combined with Chomsky's intensive case studies, presents a powerful overview of North-South relations. Be that as it may, Petras and Veltmeyer's book deserves a more accurate Amazon reception than a mere single and misleading review. All in all, the book represents an important contribution to New World Order analysis and contemporary Marxist assessments, and is well worth the read.	2005-04-13
US	49102993	R21JD4JPLS9QDZ	1583671110	794944187	Pox Americana: Exposing the American Empire	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Respectable	Moderately useful, if uneven, collection of essays analyzing America's global power grab. Focus is on origins and mechanisms through which US seeks to impose a new order on the nations of the world and its own people, like it or not. Part One is an informative short history of US imperialism, showing that current global thrust amounts to continuation of policies and precepts dating as far back as Andrew Jackson's tenure. For someone new to America's imperial past, Foster, and Dunbar-Ortiz's respective articles pose a revealing and easily accessed introduction. Unfortunately,  the Chomsky interview does not mesh well and probably should have been omitted, while Wallerstein's brief essay covers events up to the moment and is highly suggestive, but  too condensed too support extremely complex topics, e.g. Iraq invasion and role of oil. <br /> <br />The collection's high-point is Part Two, dealing with the political economy and geo-politics of US imperialism. Peter Gowan's analysis of background and growing tensions between US and Europe is timely, and illuminates contradictions between Europe - US rivalry, on one hand, and their solidarity vis-a-vis the global South, on the other. (Consider France's differing reactions to US interventions in Iraq and Haiti respectively.) The Halevy-Varoufakis article is also useful for understanding how US has reasserted its economic primacy at expense of European economies through use of deflationary policies. The authors' contention that Europeans misunderstand reasons for recent US growth advantage makes for an interesting and provocative read, especially as it debunks new entrepreneurial model  Europeans are flirting with. <br /> <br />Except for Bill Fletcher's pellucid essay \\"Resistance\\", Part Three is disappointing, which probably reflects the actual state of left-wing politics. There may be a worthwhile article  somewhere in Samir Amin's seven pages, but as the work stands, it's closer to a bald anti-US rant than a useful analysis -- apparently Amin was caught at a weak moment. Fletcher's essay, on the other hand, is a little gem. It frames labor's capacity for resistance within a highly illuminating historical framework that highlights the Samuel Gompers tradition, thereby helping readers to better comprehend labor's current weakened state. Some of his recommendations may be contestable, but the overall result is highly informative. Can't help noting, in passing, presence of routine essay by Bernardine Dohrn, former pin-up girl of New Left. Good to know there's life after the Weather Underground. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a respectable if not particularly distinguished little tome from editors of Monthly Review.	2005-03-08
US	49102993	R2M9TZMFBDFTN8	0822319675	538696682	Between Jesus and the Market: The Emotions that Matter in Right-Wing America	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Forward to the Past	A very useful book for understanding the emotional appeal of right-wing fundamentalism. Kintz is not interested in exposing the many intellectual fallacies, rich as they are, that characterize this movement. Instead, she seeks to unravel the appeal fundamentalism holds for millions of acolytes. Though individual chapters suffer at times from unexplained choices, her approach benefits from leading fundamentalist  spokespersons, such as George Gilder, Beverly La Haye, Michael Novak, et. al. , and by wisely adopting a non-condescending and sympathetic commentary -- both of which help bring out the magnetic appeal of traditionalist beliefs for those who have never experienced them. Still and all, the work is informed by a mildly feminist undercurrent and the occasional surfacing of postmodern buzz words such as \\"binaries\\" and \\"encoding\\", but not to the degree that the text's main purpose is subverted (despite the Kirkus review). <br /> <br />The book's most relevant chapters are those focusing on the reconstruction of traditional gender roles in the face of mounting gender equality, a reaction that amounts to good old-fashioned Let's-put-everybody-back-in-their-proper-place-where-God-intended-them type of thinking. The chapter on Novak and the sacredness of the modern corporation, however, seems so ludicrous that it left me wondering if this really is an accurate account. On the other hand, the genuinely novel chapter \\"Warriors and Babies\\" discusses the post-Vietnam reconstruction of masculine pride, and contains an incisive glimpse into the split-thinking that characterizes the soldier-survivor reaction to that conflict. This segment apparently owes a lot to a book by James Gibson, but remains highly suggestive of the new brand of warrior mentality that has since taken hold. In fact, one of the great omissions of social progressivism has been its inattention to reconstructing masculinity in the face of changing feminine roles, a void fundamentalists now happily exploit. It's as if all the attention went into women's liberation without considering the effect on the average Joe, except now the average white Joe is striking back in the guise of the reactionary Bush administration. <br /> <br />Be that as it may, Kintz has filled in many of the emotional dots, while the book's theme has only become more relevant in the years since the 1997 publishing date. Given the fundamentalist cast of the Bush regime, perhaps a new, updated edition is now in order.	2005-02-20
US	49102993	R1Q1RX1C5EC7Z8	0300103050	958790976	One World: The Ethics of Globalization (The Terry Lectures)	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Questionable Assumptions	Clearly, the nations of the world are moving away from traditional sovereignty towards greater mutual dependency. That much is obvious. However, what shape this process will eventually take is not so obvious. In broad outline, Singer's book attempts to lay out the ethical foundations for a more just, humane, and sustainable global process. Of course, it's hard to argue with that, given so many present trends away from those laudable goals. On the other hand, it's certainly possible to take issue with Singer's consequentialist approach to these problems, as I'm sure ethicisists other than Singer will do. But that academic issue aside, the book's main value lies in the author's penetrating analysis of the WTO and its  hypocritical foundations which he locates in the conflict between \\"process\\" and \\"product\\". The fact that the conflict is buried in the organization's misleadingly titled \\"10 Common Misunderstandings About the WTO\\" makes for an amusing irony. That section alone is worth the read. There are other less concentrated nuggets scattered throughout, including some shrewd and telling observations on the work of the renowned John Rawls.    My reservation is with the book's safely liberal framework. When all is said and done, Singer's prescriptions raise no issues beyond those of market reforms (reform of WTO), greater world democracy, and more generous foreign aid. In short, there is nothing there that the liberal wing of the Democratic party could not at least pay lip service to. Nowhere does his work suggest that the barriers confronting a more humane and sustainable planet are structural and non-negotiable, that wealth and power may have to be seriously redistributed, or that the problems may be more systemic than piece-meal. I don't fault him for not writing a work on political economy where these issues could be thematically addressed; I do fault the book overall for structuring its discussion around these tacit and constricting assumptions. For a thinker whohas fearlessly exposed himself to insult and ridicule by championing the rights of all of Earth's creatures, I know this is a sincere work. Still, I have the impression that One World could have been written by a hundred ethicists much less distinguished than the good professor. All in all, the book is hardly an extention of his other ground-breaking work, and, in that sense, amounts to a disappointment. For those wishing a more challenging ethical approach to  globalization from a philosopher of similar stature, check out Ted Honderich's After the Terror.	2005-02-09
US	49102993	R1VQW0Z1RBO2EM	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Grammarians, Unite!	Truss's surprise best seller demonstrates two important facts: \\"wit and the comma\\" is not an oxymoron, while the much besmirched public appreciates a guide through the foggy world of punctuation as long as it's entertaining. Let grammarians quibble over the finer points, but this is the most encouraging sign guardians of the written word have had in some time. Grammar lessons have all but disappeared in many high schools for reasons teachers painfully recognize, at the same time writing skills have suffered accordingly. It's time to reintroduce the world of comma's, hyphen's, colon's, et. al., to the curriculum -- not in the old way, which too often produced the deadliest sessions on record, but with dollops of creativity and wit. Truss has shown the way. Punctuation may never be \\"cool\\", but neither must it be academe's biggest snoozer. So, grammarians of America, Unite! -- you have a world of clarity to win, and only a gradgrind reputation to lose.	2005-01-29
US	49102993	R2B9CWGC5G8APB	0684857081	86280798	Easy Riders, Raging Bulls: How the Sex-Drugs-and-Rock 'N' Roll Generation Saved Hollywood	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Slice of Life	Six years and 80-some reviews later, there's no need to repeat many of the points made previously. Two important aspects, however, have been generally overlooked. Personalities aside, the book presents an excellent insight into the shifting power relations between film producers, both independent and studio-based, and film directors, craftsmen traditionally subservient to the producers and money end of production. For a brief period, as Biskind's book shows, these relations were totally muddied or in some cases reversed. Thus, a degree of artistic freedom opened up for a number of aspiring auteurs (Hopper, Altman, Friedkin, Coppola, et.al.), beyond the imagination of such illustrious predecessors as Hawks, Welles, Ford, et. al. In that sense, the book should be of special interest to movie historians, especially those interested in the business side of the industry. Moreover, this shift reflects larger dynamics working their way through the culture as a whole from roughly 1966 to 1975, the insurgent period triggered by the Vietnam war. This alone should be of interest to the broader category of cultural historians. Though the cross-cutting between personalities does get confusing, the interplay among producers like Bert Schneider and directors like Dennis Hopper or between Bob Evans and Francis Ford Coppola provides a real feel of what it was like to be part of the shift and of the New Hollywood.  <br /> <br />The book also raises the interesting question of how wisdom relates to art. One respected definition of wisdom associates the idea with knowing one's limits and respecting them. Folly occurs when this sense of limits is ignored, resulting in either individual or collective excess and eventual destruction. On the other hand, art often demands that limits be challenged in pursuit of inspiration, personal muse, or some such artistic vision. Drugs, including alcohol, are often looked at as a way of breaking down personal limits. Thus, in simplified form, a basic tension exists between the requirements of wisdom and those of art. Biskind's book offers some pretty clear object lessons on what happens to artistic ambition once all notion of personal limitation is cast aside. Dennis Hopper is merely the clearest, but not the only example. Towne, Bogdanovich, Coppola, and others face a loss of perspective either temporarily or permanently. Egoism takes over, and it becomes no longer possible to separate the demands of vision from those of rampant  self-importance. Our culture tends to romanticize the \\"crazy\\" artist, but not the \\"wise\\" one who is usually much less colorful but understands the value of intelligent restraint. In this respect, \\"Easy Riders, Raging Bulls\\" presents a cautionary tale to those who would blindly follow the former. <br /> <br />Biskind's book may not be a perfect document of the time, but it does remain a highly suggestive one.	2005-01-08
US	49102993	R1H1V9FXG1ETDU	1565849205	347310569	With God On Their Side: How Christian Fundamentalists Trampled Science, Policy, And Democracy In George W. Bush's White House	Books	3	39	54	N	N	Just the Facts, M'am	A useful reference for tracking the fundamentalist assault on American government.  Chapters survey specific areas of public policy, and show how personnel changes by Bush administration are resulting in strong rightward shift led by fundamentalist zealots. Details are presented cleanly and without embellishment. All the usual suspects are present, from godfather Richard Vigurie, to tv huckster Pat Robertson, to cop-on-the-beat John Ashcroft, along with names you may never have heard. However, the book's main virtue, its unembellished factual account, also militates against the impact and staying power. Put simply, With God on Their Side lacks both analytic depth and perspective, the sort of context that would properly frame the threat this neo-theocratic movement presents to liberal democracy and individual rights. After all, Grover Norquist, the darling of the Business Roundtable, may want to repeal 100 years of progressive legislation, but  many of these folks would like to dump the last 500, and replace natural history with the Book of Genesis, the Constitution with the Ten Commandments, and humanity's future with the fiery Apocalypse -- now let's see how this agenda sells among their Wall Street facilitators. The movement is so rife with money-grubbing hypocrisy and anti-science cant, I wish Kaplan had become more personally engaged. Nonetheless, With God on Their Side remains a useful source for presenting the facts and nothing but.	2004-12-25
US	49102993	R2OKW0X4SM0L3J	0745319890	479248503	Super Imperialism: The Origin and Fundamentals of U.S. World Dominance	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Compelling Update	A remarkable work. It functions as both a novel theory of imperialism and a 20th century history of international finance. The two converge as Hudson shows how the former evolves from the latter, thereby elevating the US to a position economically and militarily astride the rest of the globe. Anyone who senses that behind the comforting rhetoric of Free World and Democracy, an aggressive empire lurks with contours and mechanisms unlike previous ones, should pick up the book. <br /> <br />This second edition updates developments through 2002 and includes a fresh Introduction and Preface. It may be helpful to note that at the rather basic text-book level Hudson doesn't fill in the blanks. A familiarity with the rudimentary mechanics of international finance is assumed from the outset. Nonetheless, the prose remains accessible and the train of thought clearly stated, no minor accomplishments for a work of this sort. Moreover, I'm glad this new updated edition dispensed with Mc Carthy's Introduction to the previous edition, which needlessly entangled Super Imperialism in the tangential Marxian tradition. (Unfortunately reviewer Saltillo has responded to the older edition which may cause unnecessary confusion to review readers.) Also, the Preface and Introduction to the new edition effectively summarize the text, such that those wishing to absorb the main points without the details can stick with these prefatory sections. <br /> <br />One note of caution. Super imperialism treats international financial policy as a purely governmental affair apart from private individuals, organizations, or special interests. This exclusive focus produces an impression of the state as an independent and autonomous entity, acting separately from the private interests surrounding it. Whether or not this is an accurate portrayal remains an open question. I don't fault the book for not addressing this basically Marxian issue; Hudson's correct in keeping a tight focus on governmental agency such that the contours of his theory can emerge. Nonetheless, a follow-up might profitably examine what connections there are. Be that as it may, the new edition stands as a welcome update to the older, seminal edition, and given recent dollar developments, is now timelier than ever.	2004-12-03
US	49102993	R29GP6PZNAIZEZ	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Meandering Path	Judging from the volume of  responses, Harris has touched a raw nerve. That's not surprising. For too long, religious belief has gotten an intellectual free ride from a democratic tradition that too often confuses tolerance with avoidance of criticism. The result is a popular culture now awash in religious superstition and science illiteracy, in short, a society of 16th century beliefs amidst 21st century tecnology. Harris does a genuine service in exposing these dangerous absurdities, whose Muslim offshoot may be historically more complex, but no less menacing. Had Harris stayed with this focus, his writing skills would have produced a little gem. Unfortunately, the book's second half undertakes a compressed series of topics outlining a path towards a more enlightened, humane society. This may be a laudable goal, but the topcs are altogether too complex for the author's brief and sometimes cursory treatment. For example, Harris embraces moral realism (moral truths independent of consciousness). Yet nowhere does he raise the central issue of whether this type of moral theory escapes the kind of metaphysical backing he would no doubt reject. I'm sure he is aware of this problem, yet this intensely controversial issue is stripped of its controversy and treated as unproblematical. Moreover, Harris separates spirituality from religion, a very necessary and timely distinction. Nonetheless, his abbreviated quasi-Buddhist experiment in collapsing the \\"I\\", may mislead readers into equating spirituality with the absence of thought and the ego. This outcome is interesting, but is also at odds with an equally persuasive view that equates spirituality with the highest individual achievements of thought, namely, artistic and intellectual accomplishment. Despite such pitfalls and a really muddled section on intuition, the book remains well worth the read, especially if the second half is taken as a stimulus for further research. Moreover, no book that provocatively searches out the moral equivalency of collateral damage with the practice of torture can afford to be overlooked.	2004-11-28
US	49102993	R2QGBA0XZ60Y4C	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	26	35	N	N	A State of Mind	Lively journalistic account of retro stampede among Kansas voters. An easy and illuminating read, the book shows how contours of rightward shift developed over time, fueled by cultural issues rather than economic ones. Largely missing is an account of Democrats historic retreat from traditional working class issues that raised up an entire middle-class, leaving in its stead a vacuum that rightists now happily exploit. Still and all, the author shouldn't be blamed for this slight since the story of the Democrat's sell-out to corporate America would require a whole other book. <br /> <br />From the previous 98 reviews two points emerge. Too many folks know too little of social conditions prior to the union drives and New Deal reforms of the century past, otherwise they would not heedlessly entrust their fate to the god of the unregulated market, (& what other domestic purpose can the Democrat Party have except that of trying to put a human face on the merciless operations of unregulated capital). Second, how sad that  so many find it spiritually uplifting to gladly collude in their own exploitation. These folks may find it ennobling; others find it simply foolish, to say nothing of putting more power in the hands of those who already have too much and willing onto future generations an impoverished existence over which they will have no control. Spirituality must have some better effect than this. Then again, what was it that some German thinker said about religion and popular opiates?	2004-09-20
US	49102993	R3QCQ5VKPFSI3Q	1560255781	703144840	Murdered by Capitalism: A Memoir of 150 Years of Life and Death on the American Left (Nation Books)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Ode to Bomb-throwers Past	Digs into the soul of resistance in a way no cut and paste history of the American Left can. Though excessive at times, the narrative occasionally snaps and crackles like a firestream of defiance, taking one voice then another, but always returning to its source: the echo of struggles past and those to come. Also along the way are the laughs, with adventures-misadventures ranging far and wide, unable to resist any siren call from the Left. Too bad, Ross couldn't raise the shade of Earl Browder to explain the progressive potential of the Party of Roosevelt in an era of Clinton-Kerry. I don't know how many of the vintage facts he has right, but the poetics of affirmation are there in abundance and speak loud and clear to all who will listen. Worth the trip.	2004-09-13
US	49102993	R1XKM9IMMN6DAF	1582342792	871434661	The Outfit	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Humphreys Retrospective	Detailed account of Chicago crime family's growth from pre-Capone days to death of mastermind Murray Humphreys in 1972, after which the chronicle trails off rapidly. Familiar highlights are there, showing how Chicago's corruptive tentacles reach into worlds of legalized gambling, labor unions, show business, and politics, with many household names surfacing, e.g. Kennedys, Sinatra, Monroe, Nixon, Hoffa, Truman, et. al. Anecdotes are numerous and fascinating, demonstrating once again how thoroughly the underworld intertwines with what author Russo terms the \\"upperworld\\". (For a provocative theory of how and why these two worlds interlock symbiotically, check out Peter Dale Scott's Deep Politics and the Death of JFK.) Though much of the material is familiar to students of the Chicago mob, Russo's treatment remains on the whole a worthwhile addition.    Two points for consideration. It's evident from the text that Russo relies greatly on Jeanne Humphreys, Murray's second wife, for fresh material. As a result, the cool and calculating master fixer is treated in near glowing terms that place him at the center of mob activities in a way that unfortunately obscures the role of other central figues such as Tony Accardo, Paul Ricca, and others. Moreover, such key underbosses as Jackie Cerone and Willie Daddano, heavyweights in their own right, get only passing mention at best. In fact, the text appears skewed both qualitatively and quantitatively in behalf of Humphreys such that it's difficult to survey how the vectors of power within the Chicago mob really played out. And though the work is aptly subtitled, \\"The Role of Chicago's Underworld in the Shaping of Modern America\\", there's little sense conveyed of how the Outfit works internally.    The second point concerns the Afterword, a provocative perspective on upperworld and underworld crime and criminals. Many readers may find a comparison between the two  unwelcome and reject it out of hand. Nonetheless, Russo presents his argument in a way that demands thoughtful consideration, drawing intelligently upon the class bias of our criminal justice system and its tendency to focus on street crime to the exclusion of the subtler, white-collar varieties. Still and all, there's another side to crime that Russo doesn't touch on, namely the international arena. To quote from Marine Corps General Smedley Butler's candid writings in \\"War is a Racket\\" (available on Amazon), \\"I spent 33 years in the Marines, most of my time being a high-class muscle man for big business, for Wall Street and the bankers. In short, I was a racketeer for capitalism.\\" -- Provocative words from a man who should know. Moreover, to give the same point a more topical thrust : Aside from the politics, just what is the moral difference between plundering the Teamster's pension fund, on one hand, and grabbing off the oil fields of Iraq, on the other. Raising a question of this sort is not meant to imply there are no important distinctions; it is meant to imply that where big government, big business, and big underworld are concerned the distinctions really do blur.	2004-09-12
US	49102993	R3PGVIC7RE76BJ	1591021820	538149696	Operation Hollywood: How the Pentagon Shapes and Censors the Movies	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Critics Pay Taxes Too	Robb's book is an invaluable resource for those interested in the mechanics of propaganda from Hollywood. The author shows again and again how the Pentagon sanitizes its image through the raw power of institutional trade-off. Movie and tv producers simply do not get the Pentagon's money-saving goodies unless their scripts conform to the high command's self-serving demands. Unsurprisingly, the result is often a subtle but sometimes dangerous departure from reality which may benefit the Pentagon's recruiting program, but in turn witholds important facts from public scrutiny. In Vietnam, American troops experienced a particularly savage disconnect between the war they expected and the war they got. It's at least an open question whether the disconnect would have been as great had the post-war years featured more of the unsanitized realism of \\"Attack\\" or \\"Paths of Glory\\" instead of the relentless banality of stereotypes like \\"Battle Cry\\", \\"Operation Petticoat\\", or scores of other unchallenging recruiting posters for the Pentagon. I'm sure thousands of others like myself were similarly seduced into paying a personal price for Hollywood's deals with the Defense Department. (And In response to the anonymous reviewer from \\"Heartland\\"-- the 5th Amendment applies only to legal proceedings, which hardly applies in this case.)  <br /> <br />On the downside--and I'm sorry to say there is one--the book would have benefitted from better editing. As far as I can tell, the chapters follow in no particular order, adding up to a loose format that scatters both focus and impact. I don't know whether the chapters could have been grouped around common themes, but some such would have helped sharpen the presentation. Moreover, facts tend to be needlessly repeated as though someone has lost track of the earlier text. In short, the text could use some honing and reorganizing.  <br /> <br />Nonetheless, Robb has performed a genuine service by calling attention to this long-standing sweetheart arrangement. The chapters on \\"The Green Berets\\", \\"Battle Cry\\", and \\"Lassie\\", are particularly revealing of how the system works. In the future, I hope some enterprising researcher will go further back to produce a history of Hollywood's relation to the armed services, which would lend valuable perspective to Robb's findings, and perhaps open up options for reforming the process. At book's end, the author lists some Hollywood personalities notable for their resistence to Pentagon pressure, such as Clint Eastwood and Kevin Costner. With this book, Robb shows that his name deserves a place among them. <br /> <br />	2004-08-31
US	49102993	R1PBMOC87RVBBS	140510242X	756910760	Wittgenstein: Meaning and Judgement	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Echoes of Kant	Provocatively aimed and closely argued inquiry into possibility of judgement (meaning) in Wittgenstein's later work, most notable for re-orienting private language argument away from social subject to individual subject, though emphatically not to Cartesian subject. In the primacy Luntley's reading places on `conditions of possibility', ` self-as-will and active agent', are echoes of Kant and Fichte -- while, in the primitive nature of `seeing similarities', are traces of even Husserl! Plenty here for students of the Austrian thinker to sink their teeth into, though clearly not suitable for a beginner or the casually interested.	2004-08-30
US	49102993	R20JZAIRBPICXU	0922915865	401786377	War is a Racket: The Antiwar Classic by America's Most Decorated Soldier	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Tub-Thumping	Tub-thumping denunciation of war as the private realm of money-grubbing profiteers from one who knows. No room here for nuance as Marine General Smedley Butler lays it on the line big time. Parallels with Iraq war, Halliburton, and other contract-hungry vultures, are too strong to ignore. Too bad this kind of anti-empire rhetoric is no longer heard from a high command  looking for executive employment at retirement. Clearly, we're all much the worse for its absence. Photos are unforgettable and add graphic reminder to extremely slender text. Unfortunately, Adam Parfrey's introduction remains sketchy and does little more than whet the appetite -- a stronger historical context  would  have helped. Smedley Butler's good name and blunt talk need to be revived now more than ever. There's something wonderfully early American about his honesty, directness, and anti-militarism, something that has been lost to an electronic age of empire building, media manipulation and moral deceit. More than a mere general, his ideals remain those of a true patriot.	2004-08-28
US	49102993	R2O7M1YCLJL8J7	041594550X	412345786	The American Ideology: A Critique (Pathways Through the Twenty-First Century)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Into the Breach	Political activists are in something of a pickle -- the need for radical change in the US has never been more evident, at the same time theoretical justification has never been more lacking. Stepping into the breach is Levine's well-aimed little volume, laying a strong foundation for social democratic change, though those exact terms are never used. His approach works a middle ground between lofty abstractions such as Reason, and more empirical levels touching on social well-being. The book's core, however, centers on a distinctly American ideology, now being exported via cruise missle and the IMF, a core that rests on two defining features: efficiency and political liberalism. These are the conceptual cornerstones of Washington's power grab and ones that must be confronted by thoughtful activists opposed to the hegemonic system. In this vein, his critique of the Invisible Hand is topical, compact, and compelling -- particularly the neat way he turns Pareto Optimal against its usual free market master. Anyone looking for a digestible understanding of how free markets, despite the Econ. 101 lectures, cannot provide the best of all worlds should glom onto these chapters. On the other hand, I had more difficulty following the interfaces between Rawls, Dewey, and liberal institutionry. I wish that connection had been more clearly spelled out, even as his counterposing of liberalism to democracy remains both ironical and incisive. Still and all, Levine's view of Washington's destructive role at home and abroad is clearly understood and unequivocally stated -- always a risk for an academic on the public payroll and subject to a board of trustees. Now that Islamo-fascism represents the only impediment to corporate imperialism, there's clearly no greater political need than that of a revitalized Left. Levine's timely work is a boost to the common effort. <br />	2004-08-14
US	49102993	R2SXL79YXY5Z1O	1583225781	339259784	Full Spectrum Dominance: U.S. Power in Iraq and Beyond	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Emergent Voice	Compact, highly readable, survey of neo-con strategy for a new American century. The booklet is simply too condensed to be either weighty or deep, nor do the respective sections on Terrorism and Iraq cohere well, (oddly, there is next to nothing on Afghanistan, a logical bridge between the two). That being said, Mahajan emerges as a  consistently sharp-eyed critic of Washington's pretentions at doing something other than building a particularly ruthless and self-serving world empire. That is the book's core and its main virtue. The historical facts are presented cleanly and effectively, much like an extended op-ed piece with footnotes. I particularly like the way Mahajan refuses to pull punches in either this book or in his tv appearances. The section on the murderous UN sanctions regime is especially revealing for an inside look at how that body gets co-opted into the imperial project. Anyone looking to understand why an anti-war, anti-US movement, is growing world-wide, would do well to pick up this little book from one of its emergent voices.	2004-07-13
US	49102993	R2N8UAGM78WP3F	074325337X	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	5	18	21	N	N	House of Ill Repute	The Bush - Saudi connection. No surprise that these two privileged families from oil rich locales would hook up in some back-scratching fashion. However, what starts out in the early 80's as a fairly innocuous business partnership, deepens over the years into an affair of state and ultimately into a sinster backdrop to Pearl Harbor II. Unger charts the evolution in workman-like fashion. Names are named and financial dealings specified. All of which come together in the penultimate chapter &quot;9/11&quot;, where we get a good idea of how the Bush-Saudi family alliance came to trump  national interest. The section on al-Qaedi's Abu Zubaydah is particularly intriguing, and if true, opens up a whole new avenue into Saudi machinations.The book is certainly not disguised Bush-bashing, despite claims made by many disarmed and desperate critics. Rather it's a particularly tragic chapter in the nation's history, providing a rare glimpse into the intersection of big business, family politics, and state policy. Instead of piling on the messengers like Unger and Richard Clarke, let's commend those investigative reporters and administration insiders for trying to get the story out to a beleagured and befuddled American public.	2004-06-14
US	49102993	RJL3EFDK2TQYC	0571209092	302174200	Wittgenstein'S Poker	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Oddball Achievement	Academic intrigue inside a jounalistic context -- not the most compatible or promising of bedfellows. Still and all, the book remains oddly entertaining despite inbuilt limitations. From the text, a smattering can be learned about the following: Anglo-Austrian philosophy, two of its most unpleasant luminaries, late Habsburg Vienna, rivalries at Cambridge, and last but not least, more than you may ever want to know about an obscure event from 1946. It's this latter that forms the book's centerpiece, and it's a testament to the authors' chutzpah that they are able to magnify this seemingly innocuous confrontation into a climactic and meaningful clash of intellects. Expectations build as the narrative meanders toward what really happened in room H-3, King's College, Cambridge, as two massive egos of the ivory tower, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper, at last collide. The actual upshot is a disappointment, and its meagreness can be taken as an ironical commentary on the elusive nature of Truth and Reality, an outcome not unbefitting a subject of this kind. Then too, the authors take liberties in filling out subjective detail, at the same time, neither the material nor the chapters cohere well despite the tenacity of purpose. Also, I agree with reviewer Walter Horn that Popper's reputation is inflated to approximate Wittgenstein's, without which much of the drama would dissipate. Nonetheless, the issue between the two remains a key one: Does traditional philosophy rest on anything other than linguistic confusion. Don't expect an answer or even a preference from the authors. All in all and despite the many drawbacks, the book stands as something of an oddball achievement, though it poses  a genuine risk to those who care nothing about baldness and the dead king of France.	2004-05-17
US	49102993	R1LM1Z77QGJR74	1859844839	902230287	The Boom and the Bubble: The US in the World Economy	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Providing Perspective	Picking up a book about economics is often like checking in with an accountant: it's no fun, but it may save trouble later on. Fortunately, Brenner's is a rewarding call to make. The text is accessible to the non-professional as well as the professional, although a familiarity with market fundamentals such as exchange rates, balance of payments, and other tools of the trade, is assumed. From the text, I gathered two key points that I believe can be capsulized. First, the so-called New Economy, touted by many stock market cheerleaders, was built on little more than old-fashioned market speculation plus timely intervention by central banker Greenspan. Moreover, the process was doomed once the disconnect between share prices and profit rates became too great, as it eventually did. Against this background, extravagant projections of New Economy iconoclasts like Newt Gingrich (Brenner himself names no names) should be measured, along with a stern warning for the future. Second, are two deeper, more ominous developments: namely, international overcapacity and falling profit rates, twin trends that have plagued industrial economies since the early 1970's. Against this backdrop, which Brenner also charts, longer-term prospects should be measured, even as international bankers tinker with short-term, burden-shifting measures like exchange rates. And though Brenner acknowledges the anodyne impact of military spending, he draws no conclusions about its future amidst a sagging GDP.Yes, the book is heavy with graphs, nonertheless the author can't be expected to substantiate his case without strong evidence. Moreover, Brenner's refreshing approach places the New Economy in a broader-than-usual context that furnishes the reader with an informed historical perspective. In most every respect, this is a  check-in call worth making.	2004-05-07
US	49102993	R1A18PSNU63UHZ	0805070044	340213782	The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Expansive	There are a number of political books vying for reader attention this election year. Johnson's, however, is especially noteworthy, because it includes a trend largely unnoticed by other high-profile critics: The growing role of the military in setting foreign and domestic policy. From a professionalized service component, to a constituency of 700+ global bases, to the powers of regional Commanders in Chief, to attacks on the Posse Comitatus Act, the Pentagon's role in post-9/11 government is, to put it simply, expanding rapidly. Thus a trend is being established that should alarm conservative and liberal alike. As Johnson sees it, the needs of a burgeoning empire are beginning to overwhelm the civilian foundation of American government, which, as we are instucted in school, remains the cornerstone of the republic. And while I agree that militarism is a requirement of global imperialism, still and all, I wish Johnson had not tried to do so much in a scant 300 pages. That is simply not sufficient room for tying together the work's many major topics, which include the military-industrial complex, imperial expansion, economic globalization, plus a last chapter rumination on the sorrows of empire. As a result, the impact tends to scatter and dissipate more than it should, lending some credibility to critics' charges of inadequate support. Nonetheless, Johnson has his finger on a major development that deserves serious attention from researcher and citizen alike. Despite shortcomings, The Sorrows of Empire is a good place to start.	2004-03-31
US	49102993	R2R5I9T0O1KR1	1859845029	161799073	Empire of Capital	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Timely Response	To quote from p. 5 of the book:  \\" The argument here is not that of capital in conditions of `globalization'  has escaped the control of the state and made the territorial state increasingly irrelevant. On the contrary, my argument is that the state is more essential than ever to capital, even, or especially, in its global form. The political form of globalization is not a global state but a system of multiple states, and the new imperialism takes its specific shape from the complex and contradictory relationship between capital's expansive economic power and the more limited reach of the extra-economic force that sustains it.\\"    In a nutshell, this is the book's thesis, and it  addresses the timely question of what form globalization will ultimately take. Against the de-centered, monolithically global state of the sort detailed in Hardt & Negri's fashionable work *Empire*, Wood argues that the only possible outcome is a multi-state system, presumably like the one already in place. For that reason alone her book is worth the read, given the wide popularity of H&N's thesis. Of the two  perspectives, Wood's is certainly on firmer empirical ground. As currently experienced, globalization is very much a product of a multi-state system, led by American capital and the state's capacity to maintain financial and military hegemony. (In fact, much of current middle-east policy can be understood from that strategic standpoint.) On the other hand, H & N's fluid leviathan appears more visionary than contemporary, more theoretical than factual, and more the result of shrewd extrapolation and darkly compelling fantasy than of historical necessity.     Nonetheless, Wood at times goes too far in her insistance on a multi-state alternative. \\"Yet global capitalism without  a system of multiple territorial statesis all but inconceivable.\\" (p.24). Now whatever the shortcomings of Hardt & Negri's book, it appears that despite Wood's assertion, this is precisely what H & N  succeed in conceptualizing. Their deterritorialized  empire is predicated precisely on the rise of a complex, etherialized framework of international capitalist controls, supra-national in scope and monolithic in nature. In short, it is the emergence of a single, invisible empire of capital, beyond the confines of nation-state, and operating on post-modern cultural and political trends. It's possible to argue the likelihood of this scenario or, given the contradictions of capital, how long it could  last, but as an alternative to a multi-state system, it  is scarcely inconceivable.     Overall, Wood's slender volume remains deceptively accessible, with none of the heavy weather of Hardt & Negri, and, despite the thematic association, is quite useful apart from the latter. Her brief history of imperialism is informative, with a revealing emphasis on Locke, and I especially like her observations on the role of corporations in the modern world of capital; anti-corporate activists should take heed. And though I think she fails in showing the necessity of multi-state globalization, she does succeed in putting the focus of empire back where it belongs -- on the global role of state-sponsored capital, particularly that of American capital. For that alone, she's owed a debt of thanks.	2004-03-15
US	49102993	RR3VS5NZSUT7I	156584758X	47416732	Another Century of War?	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Disappointing	Frankly, this slender volume is a disappointment. Too much is repetitive, such as commentaries on the Afghan war and the Northern Alliance in particular. I get the impression of a work written in too much haste, while the editors didn't attend to needed revisions. More significant is a rather superficial misevaluation of post-WWII American foreign policy, made all the more surprising because of the author's sterling credentials. The gist is that an over-reliance on military intervention has made the world including Americans less safe, and that we all would be better off had our policy been to stay out of other nations' affairs. He bolsters this conclusion with numerous instances of what Chalmers Johnson calls `blowback', or unintended consequences that cause as much damage as the problem the intervention was supposed to fix. Because of accumulated blowback, he argues, America is more vulnerable than ever. On the whole, interventionism as a tool of national policy thus stands discredited (pps. 138-139). Granted, he has room to make a case here, though probably not a popular one. <br />My misgivings are two-fold. First, intentionally or otherwise, Kolko sometimes sounds as though interventions as a matter of internal logic must produce failure. It's easy enough to find instances where intervention did in fact produce debacle: Iran,1953; Vietnam, 1965-75; Afghanistan,1980-88. But must intervention fail. It seems to me there are many more instances of intervention that on a pragmatic scale did in fact succeed with little blowback: Central America 1980-91; Dominican Republic, 1965; Indonesia, 1965, are a few examples. On a humanitarian scale, all may have been failures, but nation-states are not moralists; they operate on pragmatic grounds. More importantly, he sees no apparent pattern in these interventions. He points out  numerous contradictions such policies have exhibited over the years, but attributes them to ad hoc decisions and a militarized foreign policy. Thus,little light is shed on rational causes behind a policy of interventionism, making the policy and its execution appear irrational. This, I believe, points the reader in exactly the wrong direction. As other commentators have observed, interventionism in its instances may be carried out with varying degrees of effectiveness and intelligence, but there is a pattern to it -- namely, defense of empire (free world) over which the US presides. What may appear irrational on the surface because the government can't disclose its true imperial reasons, becomes understandable on this approach. I don't necessarily fault Kolko for not taking up this particular theory. There are others. But I do fault him for mischaracterizing interventionism as overall irrational. That amounts to a failure to look beyond the surface.<br />The book has strengths. The chapter on the Afghan war, though repetitive, contains a number of insights. But overall, coming from a historian of Kolko's calibre, the work stands as an unexpected disappointment.	2004-03-04
US	49102993	R1XH767PXX7PPJ	0805075593	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	4	22	26	N	N	That Forbidden Word: Empire	For practical purposes the eastern Pacific is an American lake, yet how many readers understand the role an obscure island like Okinawa plays in keeping it so. I didn't. But I do now, thanks to Johnson's valuable little book. Yes, the work's title is misleading; it needs a qualifier like Blowback in East Asia to be more accurate. Nonetheless, the chapters on Japan, and Meltdown, respectively, are little gems. Everyone knows that Japan  sells alot to the US, but buys little in return. It doesn't seem fair. Their workers are employed, while ours increasingly aren't, and those who are need food stamps to survive. So should we blame them for taking away good American jobs. Not if Johnson is correct. The primary locus lies in Washington and Wall Street, not in Tokyo, Seoul or Jakarta. Simply put, it's the economics of empire that's to blame, although the term \\"empire\\" is never used in polite discourse, nor for that matter does Johnson bother to define it. But, regardless of what the network is called, reality is reality, and problems of imperial maintenance do arise, even for the experienced managers of Washington DC.<br />The challenge lies in strong but dependent economies, like Japan's and South Korea's, who have evolved their own competing form of capitalism, yet still need markets to survive. Hence, to keep dependent Asian economies dependent and their subordinate polities subordinate, markets must be regulated and upstarts punished. The chief tools in this regard are trade policy and capital flows, topics about which the American electorate thankfully knows little. If using these for reasons of empire requires undercutting America's own manufacturing sector and the good wages that go with it, then that's the price of remaining Number One. How long the imperium can continue the juggling act, however, remains to be seen.<br />Not every chapter is the equal of Japan, or Meltdown. The chapter on North Korea is very helpful for understanding the current standoff. The two on China are informative, but have little to do with blowback or empire, while the one on stealth imperialism is sub-Noam Chomsky. Moreover, the final chapter, which should be strong in summation, has little substance beyond the mildly speculative. On the other hand, prologues are often little more than bland introductions. This one however isn't. Johnson's prologue outlines in brief but telling detail a personal journey from empire's unwitting spear-carrier to that of clear-eyed critic. In its own way, it's a rather inspiring odyssey. One can only hope that increasing numbers of Americans make the same journey, because, unfortunately, empires are neither peaceable nor democratic, and rarely if ever self-liquidate.	2004-01-30
US	49102993	RT39D8XJC6S49	0745317081	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs (Chomsky Perspectives)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Roguery Begins at Home	Among iIlusionists Siegfried and Roy are celebrated as experts, making live jungle animals disappear nightly on stage in Las Vegas. However, they're little more than rank amateurs,  compared to the master magicians of Washington D. C., who routinely make international crimes committed by themselves or their foreign proxies disappear from view.  A Pentagon-inspired massacre of Indonesian peasants, poof!  A slaughter of peasants at El Mozote, poof! An outlaw invasion of Grenada, poof! Any number of other international transgressions, poof! poof! You may think you see them, but when the master confabulists of smoke and mirrors are done, such brute facts vanish from view, leaving the agents of imperial expansion to take the bows, and a few of us to wonder how it was done. These illusionists perform nightly in press conferences, on network news, or from other popular venues. But while the stage may change, the message does not -- in their world, tigers really do disappear as does a bloody American empire overseen by big money and an even bigger Pentagon arsenal. No trickery involved, of course -- a claim the more honest and less deluded fakirs in Las Vegas would never make.<br />Chomsky is a guy who stands up and points out that despite the hocus-pocus the performance really is an illusion, a trick. Tigers don't actually vanish into thin air, and neither do the crimes of empire no matter how slickly they're retailed to an all-too-credulous public. For daring to to blow the cover, he's hustled out of the building and denied a mainstream forum. He becomes a non-person, left to spread the word among academics, book readers, and other marginalized types. Meanwhile, in the seat of our imperium, the stage act goes on and on and on.<br />Rogue States is no unmixed triumph of the Chomsky cannon. The focus sometimes slips, and there's a tendency for the chapters to sprawl in no particular order. It lacks the concentrated force of a carefully developed format. Yet the sheer weightof facts that Chomsky compiles demonstrates the thesis in spades, ie. that among world states, the U.S. remains the chief rogue in its routine flouting of international statutes. The record is clear even when pronouncements from Washington apologists are not, while the lesson remains invaluable for those who seek to go beyond the stage act. The fact that most of these violations go unreported attests to how ably the illusion is assisted by  accomplices in the media. Perhaps the most interesting development, however, is one that the year 2000 copyright  prevented Chomsky from noting. Bush & Co., the new imperial managers, have grown tired of smoke and mirrors. No need for illusions when you've got the muscle to act with impunity, as in the transparently illegal invasion of Iraq or the aggressive militarization of space. Under their aegis, the empire has evolved into a new stage in arrogance. No need now for any more poof; naked defiance of international norms reigns Still and all, the question arises: how long will an audience, even a long-time one, stick around for an act that loses the magic. Despite the new brazeness, Chomsky's unearthings remain as indispensible as ever.	2003-12-14
US	49102993	R1JQEZRGB3DVZ8	B000065V2J	78452877	Arrogance of Power, The : The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Balancing, Not "Balanced"	Summers does not pretend a balanced view of Nixon, the man or his career. After all, the book's subheading \\"The Secret World of Richard Nixon\\"promises disclosures kept  hidden from public view. For years ugly rumors surrounded Nixon -- payoffs from Hughes, organized crime, dirty campaign tricks, and many other dark hintings, except they received little public airing. Instead, they remained largely unpublished during a Cold War in which only the Soviet side could be portrayed as capable of deceit. Now, however, the lid is off and America has a chance for its own version of glastnost.<br />The merit of Summers' book is to gather many of these rumors into a single volume and lay them out for public scrutiny. Most, it appears, are true; at least, I'm in no position to gainsay any of them. To those who discount Summer's research, there is an overriding need to be specific, since Summers himself is specific. Moreover, if the book is the hatchet job that many claim, why hasn't the Nixon camp sued, or had one of its minions present an itemized rebuttal. By comparison, if critics of Limbaugh and O' Reilly can trouble themselves with itemized refutations, then why not Nixon loyalists.  Additionally, I have difficulty with those detractors of Summers who appear to care more about whether Nixon hit his wife, than with the well documented fact that he deceitfully extended and expanded the murderous war in Southeast Asia. After all, payoffs from the Greek junta or sabotaging President Johnson's peace efforts, if true, go far beyond character flaws or garden variety venality into the realm of international crime.  I can understand that long-time Nixon loyalists would reject the book, but die-hards of any stripe, not just Nixonians, are usually the last to face up to reality. The sad fact is that Nixon was a scoundrel, and the country elected him.<br />The book's most significant aspect is the light shined on our political culture. How is it that this unscrupulous man could achievethe prominence and power he did. Anyone who says Nixon's way is the way the game is played among politicians may be right, but understand what such cynicism implies. American democracy becomes a cynical contest between forces most able to influence government with bribes, backdoor deals, campaign money, and other forms of venality, a long ethical distance from my high school text book. It may be that Nixon was no more unprincipled than the-government-made-me-rich LBJ or the memory-challenged Reagan or the oil-soaked Bush family or the pardons-for-sale Clinton or any other of our presidents high and low. But, if that is the case, we better take a long, hard look at our two political parties, the media, and other pillars of the status-quo, for Nixon could not have flourished for as long as he did without a generally supportive milieu. No, this is not a \\"balanced\\" book. But then those of us of a certain age, were forced to live through an equally one-sided reality that allowed Nixon to lie, be portrayed as a statesman, and get away with it (no prison time).  The Summers book merely fleshes out the whole picture, and It's high time.	2003-11-08
US	49102993	R2BSC7Q0VNZ84J	0262521660	490705849	The New Constellation: Ethical-Political Horizons of Modernity/Postmodernity	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Bridging Gulfs	Bernstein points out in the Introduction his inability to combine the subsequent essays into a single theme, generative principle, or common core. His way of characterizing the refractory nature of these strands is to liken them to a \\"constellation\\", which by definition contains elements resisting integration into a unified whole. Thus, the image of constellation stands as the book's central metaphor, and a characterization of how Western philosophy stands following the emergence of the post-modern \\"Stimmung\\" or \\"mood\\". Put in Hegelian terms, the \\"other\\" remains other, because the post-modern negation of reason offers no  prospect of being reconciled into a more comprehensive whole. I think it's fair to say that for Bernstein, the \\"post\\" in post-modernism really does mean post. And though Bernstein doesn't emphasize the word, a thoroughly pluralist landscape would appear to be the result, a pluralism perhaps uniquely beyond all measure of integration.<br />Those who see the missing yet vital connecting strand in the triumph of a  consumer mentality may find the work inadequate from the standpoint of broader cultural analysis. It's true, Bernstein does stick closely to the narrower philosophical level. Nevertheless, each essay represents a penetrating discussion of major post-moderns and their precursors, figures such as Foucault, Derrida, and Heidegger, along with more diverse thinkers, like Rorty, Habermas and MacIntyre. For me, the two most revealing chapters are the discussion of Heidegger and technology and Rorty's liberal utopia. The former makes a revealing connection between Heidegger's philosophy of Being and his refusal to disavow a Nazi past; while the latter  illuminates an important theoretical issue confronting the post-moderns--- how to finesse the paradoxes facing an anti-foundationalist politics as it seeks to avoid outright nihilism. Despite the work's breadth, this is by no means the flabby work of an eclectic.  Bernstein's reputation is built upon a sympathetic and fair-minded understanding of both Anglo-American and Continental traditions. This work is certainly no exception.a sympathetic and fair-minded understanding of both Anglo-American and Continental traditions. This work is certainly no exception.	2003-09-22
US	49102993	R12ASTFD1HP94W	0631203230	624807206	The Illusions of Postmodernism	Books	5	57	67	N	N	Despite Samson, the Temple Stands	This is not a scholarly work (few footnotes), but it does make scholarly demands.The reader needs to know a lot about postmodernism and Marxism before picking it up , because Eagleton doesn't fill in the background. In short, the book does not serve as a primer. Still, pomo is a big subject and this is a slender volume, so a lot gets left out. Individual thinkers like Derrida, Kristeva, Lyotard and the usual suspects, are replaced by a popular view or what Eagleton calls the \\"sensibility of postmodernism as a whole.\\" (p.viii). This amounts to a corporate image, a synthesis of the movement as a whole -- but is the synthesis really a straw man, a travesty of the real thing? On that, the reader will have to judge for herself; in any case fidelity to the originators is really not the point. Eagleton is not interested in what these thinkers precisely think or say. Instead, he's interested in what people believe pomo says, and just as importantly, in the kind of society that popularizes a pomo sensibility.  His aim, therefore, is more about society and politics than which thinker said what and when. This is consistent with his Marxism, which is not much interested in where an idea comes from, but instead  how it affects where society is going.     But, given the eclipse of international socialism, who cares  what Marx or socialists say. Even postmodernism, Marxism's quandom successor, celebrates the god of the free market; so who cares. Well, as Eagleton points out, capitalism triumphant is an exploitative mess that is not likely (not certainly) to get better; thus, there remains a clear  need for principles embracing collective solutions to collective problems. Still and all, pomo earned its reputation by taking apart  those grand ideas that Enlightenment  thinkers, including Marx, needed for traction -- concepts such as universals, reason, humanism, et. al. The core of the book are the chapters where Eagleton shows how these modernist pillars still hold together despiteattacks from pomo's deconstruction wing. How successfully he does this is again up to the reader to decide. In my view, he's pretty effective, especially when showing up pomo's political sterility. At times, however, I wasn't sure whether he was arguing that such pivotal concepts as universals and essences are really real or merely indispensible. Politically, I suppose the question comes to the same thing. Anyhow, this is a worthwhile book for those who are looking for a learned Marxist reply to the postmodern challenge and are willing to put up with the vagaries of an allusive style.	2003-09-01
US	49102993	R112MR7PFFXV2T	1573921238	298902835	Critiques of God: Making the Case Against Belief in God	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Representative	On the whole, this is a good representative collection of arguments against belief in God (the Christian variety). None are cutting edge, however several can lay claim to places in the modern canon, (Baier's, Flew's, Nielsen's). The editor is an acolyte of Thomas Nagel and as such the volume presents not only the case against God, but  a stout defense of scientific method as an explanation of why things are the way they are.There's nothing wrong with this, except that unwary readers should not risk confusing the two. Moreover, the collection concentrates exclusively on arguments against the truth of God's existence. Some of the more interesting recent critiques, however, examine not the truth of the God concept, but whether the concept even makes sense or not. Happily, readers do not need a graduate philosophy degree to benefit from these articles. Most are accessible to any person of thoughtful, literate background. Their refutation, however, will require more than a simple profession of faith or creedal belief, so be prepared to engage intellectually in well-reasoned arguments, and the possibility that atheists too may lead happy, fulfilled lives.	2003-08-15
US	49102993	R156FFTEW6ZOQ5	0879514795	529795204	Film Noir: An Encyclopedic Reference to the American Style, Third Edition	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A "Must Have"	A \\"must have\\" for fans of noir. The book presents itself as an encyclopedic reference, and as a guide to the main body of noir it succeeds admirably. Each entry includes production crew, cast members (identified down to bit players), shooting and release dates, plus running time, along with a brief plot synopsis and critical comment by one of the staff of contributors. Naturally, where there's controversy, it's this latter that generates the most. But agree or not, the comments are almost uniformly informative and stimulating, and a testament to the continuing vitality of noir's golden age. The appendices, however, are a more mixed bag. The categorized lists are helpful as guides, but serious rethinking should have gone into Appendix C, which comes across as a somewhat heavy-handed and murky critique of noir's available literature, rendering doubtful its value as a reference guide.  Appendix E presents a compilation of \\"neo-noirs\\" or recent films in the classic mode. As a work striving for encyclopedic range, I can understand the urge to extrapolate, but it's also clear that this Third Edition just about exhausts the possibilities and I am not looking forward to another sequel. Nonetheless the work itself remains an invaluable tool for serious fans of noir everywhere, and should not be passed up.	2003-08-02
US	49102993	R3BDB849VTVS3I	079141082X	16527112	Wittgenstein (Suny Series in Logic and Language) (Suny Series in Logic & Language)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Commendable	All in all, a clear and concise introduction to the two main phases and connecting strands of Wittgenstein's work. The part dealing with the Investigations, however, is superior to that focusing on the Tractatus. Too much of the latter remains underdeveloped, precluding the kind of contours that would allow the reader to appreciate the overall power of this essentialist theory of language. Moreover, Schulte appears to shy away from pointing out the general contrast between the two stages of Witt's career. Though the extent of the contrast is debated by scholars, the fact remains an important one for understanding how Witt came to replace the methods and conclusions of the Tractatus with the very different ones of the Investigations. This transition continues to hold important lessons for those philosophizing in the traditional manner, and I wish Schulte had emphasized the contrast more for the reader's benefit. Nonetheless the section on criteria is a little gem. Many of the more difficult meditations on philosophy of mind, including private languages, are explicated in clear and comprehendible terms. In these last sections, Schulte arrives at an effective level of exposition, neither too shallow nor too detailed, as befits a proper introduction. Recommended for those interested in concepts of mind.	2003-07-25
US	49102993	R2BYGN8WKKALST	1874166218	164814940	Introducing Postmodernism	Books	2	18	21	N	N	5 Into 2 Won't Go	Many readers are put off by the very idea of serious works being reduced to a comic book format. I'm not. My experience with the Classic Comic Books of old was a good one and helped stimulate me into a more conventional direction later on. It should be admitted, however, that some serious topics are more suited to that format than others. In this case, the authors' section on postmodern art is well suited as it traces the evolution of visual styles over the preceding decades. There is much to learn here. But this asset, I'm afraid, is simply outweighed by the other two sections. These deal with topics that likely defy the most skillful of conversion attempts. Put briefly, rendering the postmodern theory of these two sections into skimpy simplifying text along with none-to-helpful graphics is almost like rendering quantum theory into a serious discussion between Ren & Stimpy. The material is simply too refractory. The authors' effort represents an honorable failure;  and a task  made no easier by the fact that the rhetoric of many of PoMo's leading exponents has itself been exposed as empty and inflated. (Sokal & Bricmont's, *Fashionable Nonsense*) Still, whatever its ultimate worth, I think PoMo is worth pursuing since it does capture the Zeitgeist of  two key contemporary trends: consumerism and globalization. More text, however, is required by any effective introduction. So, at your own risk.	2003-07-19
US	49102993	R10SXLO91UR98V	0802139175	352179176	Zeno and the Tortoise: How to Think Like a Philosopher	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Flyspeck at 30,000 Feet	I think it was the inclusion of mathematician Alan Turing that prompted me to pick up this book. I should have scanned further. Probably a project like this is doomed from the start: 25 major western philosophers and their grand ideas in 180 pages--oy vay! Sort of like getting the landscape of a majestic city from from a 30,000 foot fly-over. Moreover, Fearn doesn't help the mismatch by crowding in biographical details that usurp even more space, (leave those to a brief appendix). The low points come early, rendering the seminal thoughts of Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Kant, and Hegel practically unrecognizable. Clearly the author has either scant interest or background or perhaps both in pre-20th century philosophy. Later thinkers such as Wittgenstein and Ryle fare somewhat better, while the chapter on Turing and linguistic behaviorism possesses genuine merit. All in all, however, this slender work is an object lesson in the hazards of high-altitude flight. If fly you must, my recommendation is to book a lower, slower passage.	2003-07-13
US	49102993	R1KE2XQNFEF5RW	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	4	12	17	N	N	An Overreach	Readers should look carefully at the book's Introduction, where S&B state their intentions. I want to quote one passage from that section which, I believe, encompasses both the book's major strength and a key weakness, (The numbering is mine). <br />(1) \\"We make no claim to analyze postmodernism in general; (2) rather our aim is to draw attention to...the repeated abuse of concepts and terminology coming from mathematics and physics. (3)We shall also analyze certain confusions of thought that are frequent in postmodernist writings and that bear on either the content or the philosophy of the natural sciences.\\" (p.4)<br />As it stands, the passage is both a clear and a consistent declaration of intent. Moreover, the authors are devastatingly successful in carrying out (2) much to the embarassment of pomo's reputation which was already strongly suspect in many quarters. The problem lies in carrying out (3) in such a way that the integrity of (1) is not fatally compromised in the process. And here I believe that despite the authors' good intentions, they subvert their own preset limits by dismissing pomo in ways that at least imply a critical denial of (1). Consider the following key passage from the Epilogue, where the authors summarize a major effect of pomo's,  namely its impact on not only science but on contemporary culture as a whole.<br />\\"At a time when superstitions, obscurantism, and nationalist and religious fanaticism are spreading in many parts of the world--including the `developed' West--it is irresponsible, to say the least, to treat with such casualness what has historically been the principal defense against these follies, namely a rational vision of the world. It is doubtless not the intention of postmodern authors to favor obscurantism, but it is an inevitable consequence of their approach.\\" (p.208)<br />Now \\"an inevitable consequence of their approach\\" certainly appears to be a functional denial of (1). Yet to reach such a sweeping condemnation as expressed in the above would require a far lengthier, more philosophically sophisticated book than Fashionable Nonsense with its straw-man characterization of relativism. After all, in the US the ground for pomo was prepared not only by philosophers of science such as Kuhn and Lakatos, but by thinkers concerned with problems surrounding realist theories of reference, people like Rorty, Quine, and the later Wittgenstein. Of course, I wouldn't hold that any of the three are full-blown relativists, though Rorty comes close. Nonetheless, threads of their reasoning aid the case for what might loosely be labeled relativism. Moreover, approaches such as theirs cannot be refuted either directly or indirectly on the cheap, and certainly not by facile, albeit entertaining, comparisons with criminal investigation procedures.<BR> <BR>In sum, had they remained within the bounds of their original intent, the authors would have delivered a withering, though not fatal, blow to aspects of pomo and more than a few of its pompously deserving exponents. However, by exceeding those bounds, the book pretends to a scope for which it  does not furnish sufficient grounds--demonstrating, I suppose, that, despite the work's considerable merits, overreach is not an exclusive property of the French.	2003-07-11
US	49102993	R1QQU0RUS86ODC	1585421391	947173920	Trust Us We're Experts: How Industry Manipulates Science and Gambles with Your Future	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Modern Marketing	Turn on the tv or radio, open a magazine, or download a computer, and chances are first thing you'll encounter is an advertisement. Ever wonder what goes on in the boardrooms behind all that public relations spin. The Stauber-Rampton book is a good place to start. The authors trace the growth of modern perception management, pinpoint some  favorite mind bending tactics, and offer up a few suggestions on how to defend yourself in the clinches.You'll learn that experts aren't always experts, disinterested third parties aren't always disinterested, and for many of these outfits, money not only has no conscience, but wouldn't recognize the truth if God proclaimed it. In short, they detail lessons you probably already knew, but ones laid out here as revealing case studies. Though always readable, the text does at times get tedious, (and the culprit responsible for that front cover cartoon deserves at least 5 days of Bob Dole-Viagra commercials). Nonetheless, readers will come away with a much better idea of how the industry works, who benefits, and who too often loses. And though the book will not make the Advertising Council's top ten of `must reads', it should make the consumer's.	2003-05-20
US	49102993	R14WXGV6I3EWOD	0879109610	227126998	Film Noir Reader 3: Interviews with Filmmakers of the Classic Noir Period (Bk.3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Notes	Just a couple of points to add to Dr. Schwartz's excellent review of all three Film Noir entries. The price of this reader is hefty. Considering what you get in return, only confirmed enthusiasts should pony up that amount. A big point in the book's favor: an interview with screenwriter Daniel Mainwaring, aka Geoffrey Homes, (Out of the Past, Invasion of Body Snatchers,et.al.), a major influence on the genre, and the only interview with this neglected figure that I know of. Lastly, it's remarkable how many of these  artists were unaware of contributing to a distinct body of work we now call film noir. Perhaps the zeitgeist of the time wore a trenchcoat; certainly something generic was afoot.	2003-05-02
US	49102993	R30DBPIOLTG9QR	1583224947	626486948	Silencing Political Dissent: How Post-September 11 Anti-Terrorism Measures Threaten Our Civil Liberties	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Status Report	Though this little booklet may soon be overtaken by events, it's a fine reality check for where we are at the moment. As Chang makes clear, Patriot Act I renders the Fourth Amendment meaningless, at the same time it strips non-citizens of due process and constitutional guarantees. And though the text does at times read like a legal brief, the details are provided in succinct fashion that should alarm anyone concerned with safeguards against tyranny, whatever the source. Moreover, the threat promises to worsen as Ashcroft readies a sequel to PAI, further blurring the line between dissent and terrorism. Despite appearances, this is not a partisan issue. We all stand to lose unless we stand up for constitutional government and the right to dissent. Chang's represents  a handy and inexpensive status report, that should be the duty of every citizen to read and act on.	2003-04-27
US	49102993	R1ZTL548A45JXB	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Ugly Mosaic	Our government is corrupt. Most Americans know that, but don't like pondering the consequences. The brazeness of the Bush gang, however, makes our national avoidance hard to sustain. Now the rot extends to national elections, rigging the very heart of a beleagured democracy and its claims to legitimacy. Palast details the shenanigans in meticulous fashion that no candid person can deny. Should this palace coup surprise us? Of course not. There's big money at stake in rolling back 70-odd years of progressive reforms aimed at making capitalism livable -- after all, one man's clean water is another man's business expense. Now the wraps are off. No more Let's Compromise. No more labor movement to challenge the big money steamroller as it plows across the globe, buying off a legislature here or a Blair administration there. All is dragged into the same slime pit of corporate-IMF rule. The author presents a series of revealing snapshots, but the reader must fill in the picture. It's an ugly one, but, national denial or not, it is the unrelenting reality we all face. Hang in there, Mr. Palast.	2003-04-26
US	49102993	R27GF0FC9ME5SO	1859846955	586172298	An Act of State: The Execution of Martin Luther King	Books	4	48	54	N	N	A Clouded Light	I'm new to the details of the King assassination, and though I lived through that period the details, as I recall, were never made clear unlike the previous JFK murder. It was pretty clear, however, that the killing was a coordinated effort by shadowy background forces, and not even the government pressed its usual lone assassin case very hard. The result was a lot of loose ends awaiting real investigation. This is Pepper's second book on the topic. I wish I had read the first one before picking up this one, because An Act of State does not serve well as an introduction. Instead of summarizing the official story and introducing the principals, the opening chapters plunge us into subsequent developments, which for newcomers like myself risks confusion from the outset. Moreover the work as a whole is neither well organized nor cogently edited creating additional obstacles for the uninitiated. Nonetheless, there are so many fascinating factual aspects brought to light by Pepper, that the book stands as a must read for those interested in America's hidden history. So for those with a skimpy background such as myself, either prep with a better intoduction or be prepared to sort through as best you can. The results speak volumes.	2003-03-28
US	49102993	R2MUE95OU563J3	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Another Pastiche	Unlike those other great debunkers of official myth, Chomsky and Parenti, Vidal is a romantic. He pines for an America that once was or could have been, I'm not sure which. But it's that melancholy of the betrayed republic which provides point and meaning to what is otherwise largely stylish sarcasm; it also makes him the most entertaining of the three. I just wish he would sit down and write a single-focus work on 9-11 and aftermath, instead of patching together previous articles into pamplet-length booklets that may or may not have a lot to do with the title, (a charge he rebuts none too convincingly in Dreaming War). In my view, the most revealing chapter in this little tome concerns media censorship from that  now testosterone soaked outlet mistitled The History Channel. Readers should find Vidal's first-hand account particularly illuminating of how corporate outfits like THC subvert provocative programming from iconoclasts like himself.  Consider what a genuine service such channels would provide were they to schedule true roundtables that included the likes of a Vidal or a Zinn or a Kolko -- but why confuse all those ditto-heads switching over from the Limbaugh show on whom sponsors can now rely. This chapter is vintage Vidal, witty, biting, and incisive. And though Dreaming War does contain some fresh and worthwhile material, regular readers of The Nation may experience a growing sense of deja-vu along with a lighter wallet. So -- at your own risk amid a deluge of similarly themed books.	2003-02-19
US	49102993	RAJY96L4X3GZT	0394553667	450292421	KOREA	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Broader Than Usual Focus	Sandwiched between the highs of WWII and the lows of Vietnam, the Korean War seems now largely forgotten. Yet the consequences of that bloody intervention continue to spew forth like political lava from some seething, half-buried caldron. Vietnam had a popular fallout, but the issues and events of distant Korea remain largely unknown to  generations who cut their teeth on the Tet Offensive and the Ho Chi Minh Trail. The Halliday - Cumings book represents a sturdy short bridge spanning that gap, beginning with the star-crossed events of 1945 and ending with the ill-fated Geneva Conference of 1954. In between is a story of almost unrelieved devastation and dashed hopes for the Korean people. Those looking for a detailed history of the war itself should look elsewhere, while those looking for historical perspective should definitely pick up the book. There's a scholarly detachment here that favors neither side, but one that also exposes many suppressed facts about America's involvement with a tarnished South Korean ally. Unstated yet implied by most histories, including this one, is a single overriding fact. The  regime in South Korea, with its history of  collaboration with hated Japan, lacked from the outset a strong popular base, and was thus militarily and politically weaker than its nationalist albeit communist rival in the North. Thus the South could only survive through outside intervention, which it got, in this case successfully. Nevertheless, parallels with the unpopular French-collaborating regime in South Vietnam could not be more obvious, nor the tragic dynamics more similar.    Published in 1988 before the Soviet bloc's collapse, the latter part of the book is now somewhat dated. Still and all, I don't think anyone can understand modern American history or its global role without sober works like this one, and don't let the many bleakly revealing photographs that intersperse the text fool you. This is a book of considerable depth, more akin to the pioneering research of I.F. Stone, than to the glossy pages of a Life magazine. In many ways, as recent events have shown, the events of that time are still trailing blood and threaten to erupt again at any moment. It's best to be informed.	2003-02-08
US	49102993	R300TXIHMSYXS0	0748616675	36905067	After the Terror	Books	5	30	34	N	N	100 watt bulb in a 20 watt culture	Few academic philosophers have the guts or the sensitivity of Ted Honderich. For a profession whose Anglo-American branch proudly removed itself from mundane affairs like international politics and the fate of peoples, this little work stands in stark exception. No publication I know  captures the background sense of moral reasoning shared by today's international progressive movement better than this one. Nor are the subtle but deadly shades of culpability among dominant western societies more searchingly revealed. Sure, there is material to gainsay, although the tone is often more probing than assertorial. His thrust, however, is dead-on and should help rouse an irrelevant profession from its long ideological slumber. For those willing to confront the agonizing realities of our age at eye-level, including terrorism, Honderich's remains an indispensible and provocative tool.	2003-02-02
US	49102993	RMAEKPGAOIHSX	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Inside the Cocoon	Few books capture the unmistakable odor of decadence from our nation's capital as abjectly as this one. Brock may believe it is the political right he has unmasked in his 300 page confession -- and so he has. But more importantly, he has helped expose the power that big money has in setting the nation's issues and agenda quite apart from what ordinary people may think or feel. Aside from an insider's account of rightist shenanigans, interesting as these may be, the work's lasting value lies in Chapter 4 where we find out who bankrolls such efforts and why, and how many of these rightwing outfits suck on the teat of cash cows like Olin, Coors, Scaife, et. al. Not that I'm carrying a brief for the Democrats. Their particular version of sell out is amply recorded by Ralph Nader in Crashing the Party. What these books add up to is a glimpse into where power really lies in America, and how it gets promoted by well-paid idealists like Brock. And while an insider's account of the power struggles and Kultur Kampf at the top makes for juicy reading, it's scarcely the most important aspect of Brock's personal mea culpa.	2003-01-13
US	49102993	R3C3VC6QOE49E0	0812211650	542587083	Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science, Hermeneutics, and Praxis	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Probing	Equipped with a synoptic point of view, Bernstein has long worked the difficult terrain between continental philosophy and its more positivist Anglo-American counterpart. Here he traces what he believes is a key movement away from the broad modern tradition characterized by Descartes and the perennial search for philosophical foundations. Not always self-consciously, this emerging movement (Gadamer, Rorty, et. al.) rejects the Cartesian search for absolutes as ultimately futile; yet refuses to accept relativism as the only remaining recourse. The book's burden is to show how a viable `third way' is in fact emerging from the overlaps in the movement. His discussion is stimulating, ranging from Aristotle to Kuhn to Habermas, Kant and Arendt. No doubt he has put his finger on an acutely felt issue of our skeptical age, one that lurks ubiquitously in the background of more narrowly framed topics. Yet, how effectively this third way manages to extricate itself from the either-or of objectivism vs. relativism is up to the individual reader to judge. Frankly, I was disappointed, feeling that the results were unduly vague and pointing in the direction of a sophisticated brand of sociological relativism. Be that as it may, the text includes not a single mention of post-modernism, which may date the work in the eyes of some. Still, the meta-philosophical issue Bernstein addresses can be discussed quite apart from those specific to post-moderns and their recourse to outright relativism. As always, Bernstein remains an important interpreter of international trends and is well worth the read.	2002-12-30
US	49102993	R2EE0MWYH8F66C	0415932645	784381973	Silent Theft: The Private Plunder of Our Common Wealth	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Highly Useful	Bollier has written a very useful little book, of particular interest to liberals, Greens, and Libertarians, as well as the broader public. The book's thesis holds that the 'commons' -- understood as our collectively owned assets, (natural resources being one example) -- are under steady threat of enclosure (privatization) by an increasingly aggressive commercial sphere in search of expanding profits. His use of the more archaic terms 'commons' and 'enclosure' to describe the process is a shrewd one,  connecting current encroachments to those more infamous enclosure laws of time past. Despite appearances, this is not an abstract bookish issue. Daily, the public faces such benchmark symptoms as depleted public resources, brand-name idolatry, open spaces overwhelmed by advertising, and threats to an unfettered internet. Ironically, what is disappearing, as Bollier points out, are those very public and personal places that provide a market economy with the societal wherewithall it needs to reproduce itself. Inasmuch as the market has its own parochial definition of rationality -- one that has increasingly become the public standard -- such commons are too often unable to justify themselves and thus are contracted and sold, disappearing at an alarming rate. Government's role in aiding and abetting these enclosures is also detailed, and while the book is severely critical of market myopia, it does not call for their elimination, but for an intelligent circumscription.<br />Traditionally, liberals have defended the public sphere. This work should help provide some backbone for rediscovering the importance of that commitment. It is a call to arms for those who understand the long-term significance of what the author calls the \\"Gift Economy\\", i.e. a free exchange among parties,  as exemplified in the conditions leading to the explosive growth of the internet. Greens should like the emphasis on community-based solutions, while Libertarians should feel challenged to justify their paradigm, given the sociological priority of gift economies. Bollier's style makes for easy reading, along with a helpful bibliography. The book is neither weighty nor deep, but it does maintain a steady focus and serves as a useful compendium for understanding the rapidly shrinking public domain, and what we are losing in the process.	2002-12-07
US	49102993	R2HEIAN4DB6LPJ	0812930010	13294741	The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made	Books	3	6	9	N	N	An Overreach	Wow! -- Did Times critic Bosley Crowther blow his June, 1960 review of Psycho, as Janet Maslin candidly confesses in her brief Foreward. There are other missed opportunities among scattered triumphs spanning 70 years and 1,000 reviews from the stoutly conventional New York Times. And that's where the main interest in this otherwise compromised compilation lies. It's a catalog of quick reactions, before collective opinion has had a chance to harden and received wisdom to settle in. From the power of hindsight, It gives readers a chance to rate the professional taste-makers, those who make a living at arbitering what's good at the boxoffice and what isn't. Since the source is the Times, the entries not only reflect the cultural climate of the time, but engineer it as well. Thus, the critics' obtuse reaction to the seminal James Dean conveys something more profound than what might otherwise seem mere generational disconnect . If the overall impression is one of stilted stodginess, there are some notable exceptions: Vincent Canby's revealing approach to Stranger than Paradise, for one. And to be fair, it's difficult to overcome the limitations of a rigid format and a confined space to produce anything that really probes the movie in question. <br />My real gripe lies with the inflated title, \\"Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made\\". Oh really! Who else but a dollar-chasing merchandiser would make such an extravagant claim. And how would a publication that systematically excluded from its pages the treasure trove of B-movies of the 30's, 40's, and 50's pretend to such status. It's like running a race and listing among the losers those who never ran.Thus such consensus classics as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Kiss Me Deadly, I Walked with a Zombie, etc., are excluded from the outset, because of poor pedigree and catch-penny title. No list that replaces them with the likes of such certified clunkers as Anastasia or Suddenly Last Summer can or ought to be taken seriously. Of course, no daily newspaper can review every film that comes down the pipe. Choices have to be made. But it should be understood that an act of pre-emptory exclusion biases any list from the outset. More honest and less misleading, would have been a more modest title, like \\"Best 1,000 Movies The New York Times Saw Fit To Review\\". For movie lovers not laboring under this albatross of respectability, I suggest the works of Danny Peary as a more inclusive and reliable guide.	2002-11-16
US	49102993	RB37Q0VDNYWEZ	1859842712	764118582	The Global Gamble: Washington's Faustian Bid for World Dominance	Books	5	22	23	N	N	On Target Perspective	Can globalization be understood as the strictly market-driven phenomenon its proponents claim it to be. No, argues Peter Gowan, an editor of New Left Review. Such a narrow economic focus provides little real insight into the forces and objectives behind the American-led push to globalize. Instead, Gowan insists, there is a political component to the equation too often overlooked, yet it is this political component that provides the needed framework. Key here is what Gowan terms the Dollar Wall Street Regime (DWSR), a collaboration between Wall Street and financial organs of government. Contrary to orthodox opinion, DWSR views the relation between the state and the private sector as an essentially cooperative one, at least at the upper reaches of big business. Thus an intertwining of politics and economics stands behind the American drive for global dominance, a strategy that makes coordinate use of both state and private resources. Characterizing DWSR are two far-reaching and controversial theses. First, despite current wisdom, the state remains a key actor on the international stage, at least in the industrialized world; and second, there is nothing inevitable about a globalizing process once the role of political choice is understood. Taken together, these contentions challenge not only widely-held mainstream beliefs but swathes of ideological opinion on both left and right.    Gowan traces the historical evolution of DWSR in Part One, with an emphasis on international financial jockeying. Part Two focuses on the political dimension, particularly as it bears on the Middle East and eastern Europe. DWSR's capacity to illuminate is especially strong when dealing with post-cold war events in eastern Europe. Here it's fascinating to note the architect of Shock Therapy Jeffrey Sachs' incomprehension of how his measures are used to subjugate the region to US and European interests, instead of conforming to his more egalitarian theoretical model. Or, put another way, DWSRdeceitfully uses a concrete program like Shock Therapy  for selfish political ends, despite rhetoric to the contrary -- rhetoric Sachs apparently takes at face value, leaving him no one to blame for the failures except bumbling bureaucrats. As the author points out, Shock Therapy actually worked quite effectively as one component in the West's drive to subordinate the economies of former Soviet Bloc states.     Gowan's book is invaluable for making sense of current global developments: evidence of an axis like the DWSR appears overwhelming in daily news accounts, both foreign (Iraqi oil-grab) and domestic (Enron revelations). The author's style is scholarly, yet accessible to the serious reader, even though an index and bibliography would have been helpful. It's unfortunate that the work appears to be going largely unnoticed on the Amazon web. It certainly deserves a much better outcome.	2002-11-13
US	49102993	R29I1EBW4ATLET	0809222272	343297562	The Hollywood Book of Death: The Bizarre, Often Sordid, Passings of More than 125 American Movie and TV Idols	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Flesh and Blood	This book reminds us of what many tend to forget. That behind those timeless images on the silver screen are flesh and blood people, all too susceptible like the rest of us to the ravages of passing years. Not that the author's tone is morbid or gossipy. It's not. Instead, the prose is candidly matter of fact, without speculation or embellishment, and you won't come away feeling ghoulish or intrusive. Still and all, there's no apparent criterion for who gets included among the deceased 125, and who doesn't. So whether your own particular favorites are included remains something of a dice roll. Each entry receives one to four pages of bio sketch plus details of passing, which are grouped helpfully under headings indicating the nature of the demise, such as \\"Accidental\\", \\"Natural Causes\\", \\"Puzzling Deaths\\", et. al. Interesting features include: disposition of estate, amount of estate, and disposition of remains, along with interment sites as catalogued in the handy Appendix B. Naturally, such limited space has its drawbacks -- one being that the reader cannot be made to feel the emotional tone of the individual's life experience, the death thus coming as something of an abstraction. (Only full length biography can reach contextual depth.) All in all, however, Parrish's work stands as a welcome addition to that archive of Hollywood lore which sticks pretty close to the facts -- some of which for a tome this rich are inevitably wrong, e.g. James Dean was not \\"out for a spin\\" on that fatal day, but headed to take part in the races in Salinas; by the math Parrish provides, Harriet Nelson was 80 at death, not 84; Lurene Tuttle, not Paul Jasmin, provided the mother's voice in Psycho. But this is mere nit-picking. The book itself remains a fascinating read.	2002-11-05
US	49102993	R2R9SBB3H3FZCZ	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Pinstripe Whistleblower	Had unwashed Seattle marchers said what Joseph Stiglitz says about the IMF, they'd be dismissed as economic illiterates. Pretty hard, however, to dismiss the World Bank's former chief economist and Nobel Laureate as hippie ignoramus. Yet his gentlemanly indictment of international outfits like IMF proves every bit as damning as the sloganeering from Seattle. Stiglitz distinguishes himself from the bean-counter pack by actually caring about what happens to people as a result of IMF policy. From eastern Europe to east Asia to Africa, he shows how havoc has generally resulted from IMF's one-size-fits-all diktats. Throughout, IMF mantra remains the same -- privatize, deregulate, open your veins to outside investors, and never mind the unrest that follows; things will work out in the end. Except they don't, at least not for the benighted populations. Countries like Maylasia, Botswana, and Poland trend upward, Stiglitz argues, not because they accepted, but because they refused IMF bail-out. In short, IMF is a flop unless it changes its ways. Oddly, all of this sounds vaguely radical, so one-sided has panacea talk about deregulation and free trade become. Yet his prescriptions for reform -- mildly Keynesian and participatory -- amount to little more than liberal alternatives to current right-wing monopoly. The dissent itself amounts to a barometer of the times.<br />Still, I question the prognosis of IMF, et. al. as a failure. Their \\"crisis management\\", it seems to me, has worked quite well for the moneyed interests who set it up. Speculators have had a field day. If Indonesia seems a risky investment, never mind, IMF policy guarantees you'll be paid back. Like the looks of that Russian steel plant, hold on, they'll privatize, then you can cherry pick. Worried about an inflated currency (the debtor's dream), sit still, never happen on IMF's watch. Despite the lofty rhetoric surrounding them, these international outfits were never set up to level a playing field for anyone. The results for developing countries are clear even when the talk is not -- a subservient role in a new world order that insists on funneling the riches upward. This is not about promoting democratic equality among nations; its about wealth and power and making sure the funnel stays where it is, in the hands of moneyed elites. And in that crucial regard, the bankers and economists of IMF have succeeded grandly. Of course, they may have to become warmer and fuzzier as a result of books like Stiglitz's, or send rock singer Bono on a pr tour, but nothing basic will change. I salute Stiglitz for trying to be a true scientist among a pack of ideologues, but he has yet to really size up the situation.	2002-09-20
US	49102993	R3IS20J1XEH0R7	0767905334	421292455	Wealth and Democracy: How Great Fortunes and Government Created America's Aristocracy	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Heresy on the Right	Do open markets necessarily serve representative government? No, asserts maverick conservative Kevin Phillips, who marshals considerable evidence of 30 years of  entrenched conflict. That's the kind of apostasy that won't get him invited to the Bush White House any time soon. In fact, the political right has been conflating markets and democracy since cold war's end, the better to open up formerly closed economies. Globalization also rides hard on the heels of this equation and I'm sure it's no comfort to Wall St. power brokers or their apologists in academe to note Phillips' departure from their ranks. But then he's long been sensitive to the powers conferred on wealth inside a democracy, so there should be no great surprise. Not that he endorses the idea of redistribution. He doesn't. His approach is more like that of a value-neutral historian seeking to learn from history and pass along its lessons. And he does find lessons.    Foremost is the effect of rising speculation upon a productive economy. The case studies are Holland, England, and to a lesser extent Spain. These historical studies show a correlation between an economy overtaken by speculation and (to simplify) a resulting imperial decline. The pattern, he believes, is there, while the warning to Wall St.'s expanding appetite for riches and power abroad could not be clearer. He also punctures the hot air sales pitch that pumped up the speculative balloon of the 90's, i.e., how technology and communications have ended the business cycle, resulting in a tide that lifts all boats, etc. As historical precedent shows, this sort of hyperbole is far from being a novelty, all the better to rope in thousands of hapless folks like Enron employees.    There are other hot topics, such as the role of WTO, NAFTA, et. al., those supranational outgrowths designed to aid international finance and its speculative arm. Revealingly, Phillips now appears closer to skeptics such as Ralph Nader and Pat Buchanan than to currentRepubocrat gospel. What becomes of democratic self-rule, he wonders, when unelected bodies like the WTO are given the power to overrule representative government. Having rejected the facile mantra of open markets equaling democratic governance, this is a question every conscionable conservative should be asking.     Much of the book is given over to a history of wealth in America, replete with charts, trends, and other necessary impedimenta. The story here is a fairly familiar one with no particular surprises. In the past twenty years the rich have gotten far richer with deregulation, the poor poorer, with a middle class desperately hanging on. When capital so over-reaches, popular revolt follows, at least that is the pattern Phillips locates in our past. Thus, he points to a revolt that would appear in the offing, following wealth's most recent orgy. Perhaps, but perhaps not. Here's where cyclical theories of history can mislead. Consider Hardt and Negri's alternate scenario of an impersonal, decentered global empire, following upon a globalized capitalist economy, dominated by corporate communications, hollow democracy, and an international elite. In other words, a landscape shaped by the culmination of current trends. Such a real possibility would relocate struggle from within national boundaries to a world arena with no boundaries. Hence struggle in America would have to internationalize -- a serious departure from previous cycles, suggesting perhaps a new stage in human history that does not repeat old national cycles.    Be that as it may, by pointing up how private wealth employs government to augment itself, Phillips distinguishes himself from many of his pundit colleagues on the right. Despite charges by detractors, there is precious little advocacy in this work. The story pretty much tells itself in facts and figures. For me, a long-time lefty, Phillips remains a must-read. As he should be for thoughtful conservatives as well.	2002-08-31
US	49102993	R24T609SVBDXLB	1859846793	348527795	The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Badly Needed	Now that treasury deficits, along with a slew of Constitutional guarantees, are being thrown into the so-called war on terrorism, we should get a better look at whom we're bombing this month. Variously defined as swarthy guys with beards or swarthy guys without beards, depending on whether they're about to grab a jetliner, they all have two things in common. They're fanatics and they hail from the world of Islam. To most Americans, that is an easy reach. Our popular villians have always had a swarthy cast and a foreign pedigree. Moreover the slender-faced, goateed bin Laden bears a striking resemblance to that Oriental mastermind of yesteryear: the fictional Dr. Fu Manchu who also specialized in attacking seats of Western power, the empire of Great Britain. Being too valuable as weapons, these stereotypes survive like bad seeds ready to sprout when properly nourished. Unfortunately, the blood of 3,000 innocents in New York City has provided plenty of growth potential. <br />Ali's timely book attacks some of the myths currently sprouting in popular belief. The focus is mainly historical, with an eye toward the history of Islam as well as the recent history of the Middle East. The portraits that emerge are a lot less monolithic than Huntington's fashionable clash of civilizations would have it. The Muslim world appears as fractured politically and culturally as counterparts in the West. Moreover, the author's reminiscence on life in Pakistan puts human faces on the abstractions of nation and religion, bringing the fabled Other of Occidental lore into much-needed focus. The book's overall effect, however, is more scattered than concentrated, but no less valuable for its many insights. The chapter on Kashmir and its world of intrigue remains a topical standout. Ali writes more as a wide-ranging intellectual than as an academic scholar, and while this work may not be the last word on tumult in the Middle East, it poses an excellent introduction. And for those ready to dismiss the author's clash-of-fundamentalisms thesis, recall John Kenneth Galbraith's trenchant remarks on neo-liberalism's theology of the marketplace, no less timely now than thirty years ago. Indeed, religions come in many godheads, be they an all-powerful invisible spirit or an all-harmonizing invisible hand.	2002-07-24
US	49102993	R1XMDS3KD47JH0	0345353293	105333553	Witness to a Century: Encounters with the Noted, the Notorious, and the Three SOBs	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Apt Title	The author George Seldes is a name unknown to the vast majority of Americans, including those who read newspapers. Yet his pioneering newsletter In Fact, along with a supreme dedication to jounalistic integrity and Jeffersonian ideals, qualify him as one of the key journalists of the 20th century. He set the standards that many liberal muckrakers of today work to emulate, including, for example, the late and more widely known I.F. Stone.<br />The book's title Witness to a Century is an apt one. As a foreign correspondent, he had an uncanny knack for being at the right places at the right time while history was being made. His recollections of such key figures as Mussolini, Lenin, Tito, Mc Carthy, Roosevelt, and others are priceless. It's doubtful that any one person non-head of state met with as many shapers of history as Seldes, even as the book profiles his many encounters with cultural figures of the day: Picasso, Sinclair Lewis, Ford Maddox Ford, and the Paris literary scene of the 1920's. With this stellar background, readers could expect an exceptional reminiscence on the century past. However, I was somewhat disappointed in the result. Fellow reviewer Goldberg points out how the last two chapters tend to fade, and he is correct. In fact, the book as a whole seems rather loose and disjointed, with little segue from one chapter to the next other than a rough timeline. And while many of the personal portraits remain vivid and edifying--von Hindenburg weeping over Germany's defeat by fresh American troops--the work as a whole is the result of a distinguished journalist past his prime. Still and all, his observations on the press reporting of his day may surprise some readers. Managed news accounts, the result of kowtowing to wealth and power, was even more flagrant in his day than now, suggesting, I suppose, some refinement of method. There is material here for several volumes, and I suspect that were he 20 years younger, such would have been the result. As it stands, the work is more a compilation of loose snapshots, than in-depth portraits. <br />Nonetheless, no historian of the 20th century, amateur or professional, can afford to pass up such primary material. Seldes was not only an outstanding jounalist, but as the record shows, an outstanding American as well. Regretably, his like seems to have faded from the scene, leaving mainstream journalism to generation after generation of pack-following pygmies.	2002-07-05
US	49102993	R24RWEOWQFS63I	0931773563	71305426	The Amboy Dukes	Books	5	81	88	N	N	Before Rock and Roll	In 1945, teenagers were visible as individuals but not as a group. The subculture would come later, with rock and roll, Elvis, and portable radios. Meanwhile there was a depression to work through and a big war to win. Small wonder that kids of that era passed quickly from adolescence to adulthood with hardly time for a coke along the way. The Amboy Dukes is a milestone youth novel of that era. Though not as self-consciously literary as its middle-class competitor Catcher in the Rye, Dukes vividly dramatizes urban despair in a crowded working-class precinct of New York City, and its effect on the Jewish youth gangs spawned there. It was then and remains a classically gritty tale of modern America.<br />Because Shulman portrays the sexual escapades and pot smoking in candid fashion, it's easy for critics to stigmatize Dukes as a trashy novel. That however neglects the many dimensions to the book, including some very fine writing by the author. Instead, I take it as an honest depiction of what Shulman knew and chose to set out in unusually forceful and unpatronizing terms. Coveted by teenagers of the time for its daring assault on censorship, the language and events may seem tame compared with today's non-existent standards. Yet Shulman's characters and their dramatic narrative remain as fresh and timely as ever, the murder of the teacher standing, in retrospect, as an opening shot in the youth rebellion to come. Substitute Latino or Black for the Jewish Dukes, add a level of drug trafficking, and the story (including the awful conditions that spawned them) remains essentially unchanged from then to now.<br />Also, author Shulman goes into vivid detail describing the youth fashions and moral behavior of the day, or what kids then considered 'cool'. More important, however, is his sharply drawn slice of class realities, as experienced by pivotal characters Frank Goldberg and his 11-year old sister Alice. Their two wrenching tours through the tonier parts of the city are among the book's memorable highlights. In fact, it is the easily overlooked Alice, and not the more melodramatic gangbangers, who remains the book's most pivotal and sympathetic character. For it is she who's being propelled into a new post-war era with all the sadness and growing sense of entrapment that bedevils the working poor. It is through her youthful enthusiasm slowly succumbing to despair that the book touches a universal chord, as we experience with her the poignancy of a crushing loss of hope. It is here, far from the prurience and rawness of the rest of the book, that Shulman achieves his finest, most revealing moments. I like to think that in the coming years, low-interest loans, Levittowns, and other now much derided assisstance programs redeemed at least some of her innocent dreams. (There's also a glimpse in these passages of the rational basis of consumerism.)<br />Because of its questionable content, The Amboy Dukes continues to lead an underground existence, overshadowed by the more respectable and refined Catcher in the Rye. But the fact that it has survived the years and continues to be published is testament to a lasting value as social commentary.Though currently out of print, Shulman's book is far more than a teen novel. It is a permanent record of artistic achievement deserving of literary respect, cultural interest, and a continued readership. Pick it up.	2002-06-24
US	49102993	R1PHII6WNE43YX	0674006712	431315804	Empire	Books	3	36	49	N	N	Millenial Metaphysics	Since Empire is not written for a popular audience, casual readers should avoid it like the plague. There are few concessions to the reader, even experienced ones.The verbiage is dense, some key concepts remain murky, and few examples are given. However, if you've some background in history of ideas including postmodernism, some time on your hands, and a curiosity about what the future may hold, then you may want to give the book a try. Frankly, I would read some parts more as science fiction than as valuable guide, but it does have its moments.<br />The authors are neo-Marxists with a heavy emphasis on the `neo'. Because by the time their postmodern approach finishes with Marx, he's about as recognizable as a shredded medical school cadaver. That's not to say the old boy couldn't use a face lift, but this is radical surgery that eliminates the patient by removing the vital organs. Tossed into the formaldehyde is all semblance of political economy. Postmodernism has little time for anything dealing with measurables that pretend to a life beyond what we come to give them. So goodbye to M-C-M', relative surplus value, and all those other key formulations that make the Marxian paradigm powerful and scientifically appealing. Goodbye too to economic classes, though they may be granted some vague afterlife in what there is of Empire's sociology. Historical Materialism?- just another useless organ, although the authors press their own version of a global market with a relentless determinism that would do the Second Internationale proud.  Needless to say, the book's least persuasive parts are those attempting to hang on to the aura at the same time the body of Marx is discarded. <br />Instead of laying bare capital's laws of motion or riffs on that worthy enterprise, we get extrapolations of current trends. There's nothing inherently wrong with this, except that the level of abstraction from Hardt and Negri is so extreme that at times we enter the banished realm of metaphysics where only ideas count. The paradigm here is the internet and cyberspace. Like these two postmodern icons, Empire is everywhere and nowhere, seemingly beyond any and all paticulars, omnipresent like a dark god in the ether. Similarly, the multitude (ordinary people) are stripped of  determining content, becoming more like a bare idea than a true category. Such results could only be reached by abstracting out all that is historical, contextual, and conflictual from the world around us. It's like waking up in a dim room with a sinister presence hovering and not knowing how you got there. Too many of the book's other visionary results are arrived at in similarly ethereal fashion. And though the authors want to avoid an Empire of undue seamlessness by factoring in the idea of hierarchy, the result is again a bare semblance. In short, Empire is emptied of too much that is remotely particular or material in content. <br />More surprising is a glaring absence of  concern with environmental issues. Marx had an excuse since he was pre-Rachel Carson. Hardt and Negri do not. They at least owe the reader an explanation of why no mention is made of this planet-threatening menace and its ties to profit-driven capital. Perhaps it is their assumption that Empire can finesse the conflict between profits and nature as easily as easily it digests national liberation and class struggles. However, no social theory, Marxist or not, can any longer afford not dealing with green issues as a major topic of concern. Nor can a work present itself as a paradigm for the new millenium minus this awareness.  For such an egregious omission, there is simply no excuse.<br />On the other hand, there are solid parts to the book. Part 2, \\"Passages to Sovereignty\\", presents an historical analysis of sovereignty that is both novel and stimulating, and should appeal to those with an interest  in political science. The discussion here is extremely insightful, shedding light on representative governmentin the First World and national liberation movements in the Third. There are other useful snippets scattered throughout, and the authors are to be commended for grappling with the contours of a post cold-war world. Nevertheless, the eclectic blending of Marx and postmodernism is both forced and unproductive, while a continuing deference to the 19th century revolutionary suggests there is far less to the \\"post\\" in post-modernism than the authors or their many acolytes intend.	2002-06-20
US	49102993	R2GZ10SUCAUWS2	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	27	35	N	N	Revealing Slice	What's it like to be one of the working poor? Barbara Ehrenreich went undercover to find out. A lot of people have trouble with this since she's really a well-paid academic, and not a true daughter of the working class. I don't. Because not too many people working 14 hour days write books, and no one writing books has taken the vow of poverty to find out. Nickel and Dimed ought to be required reading for everyone, especially our elected officials, as  though anything other than a fat campaign contribution can move them.<br />The author tells her story first-hand, in a no nonsense style that is neither detached nor maudlin, and reveals as much about herself as the world she's gotten into. As it turns out, what she's gotten into means not only stretching meager dollars and cents, but holding together emotionally and physically on a weekly paycheck that probably equals the sum Bill Gates tips his favorite waiter. Moreover, I get the feeling that researcher and human being Ehrenreich just about loses it when housecleaner Holly drags around a broken foot because of abject loyalty to some abusive company policy.<br />Oh sure, apologists for the business class will resist the book's results, since this personal account--supported, incidentally, by relevant statistics-- undercuts that hoariest of employer apologetics about hard work and dedication eventually paying off. To the contrary, numbers since 1973 indicate hard work and dedication among the working poor only guarantees more hard work and self-sacrifice. Joining the ranks of the minimum wage has become an ache-and-pain treadmill to nowhere but the nearest fast food joint and hospital charity ward. Worse, it's insulting to be called an associate or some other public relations gimmick while being treated like a convict on guest release, with short rations and short leash to boot. Nor can any amount of million dollar fuzz-over or media lack of attention alter this gut level reality that 30 percent of our work force faces daily.<br />Despite the ad-hominem attacks on her background and motives, Ehrenreich's work fulfills one of America's finest and most honorable traditions--that of the muckraker. To her credit, she has never swapped a social conscience for a PhD entry card into a lifetime of ivory tower insouciance. So until one of those harrassed, underpaid and under-empowered women (or men) finds the time to write a better expose' , I'll be content with Dr. Ehrenreich's. In the meantime I'll be working for those measures I think will help: an increased minimum wage, universal health insurance, affordable child care and housing, repeal of Taft Hartley, and most of all, a sense of dignity for all useful work. Because, as one wag puts it, mink coats don't trickle down.	2002-06-12
US	49102993	R36AVUHE0YCII3	0312284330	800097894	Crashing the Party: Taking on the Corporate Government in an Age of Surrender	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Air to Breathe	Why did thousands of people pay actual money to hear a presidential candidate speak? Read the candidate's election year diary and you'll know why. We're stuck with a hollow democracy because it's been hijacked by corporate interests who've turned it into little more than a purchased business asset. That's the book's main message, and though most people don't need Ralph Nader to tell them the obvious, a first-hand account does add a lot of important detail. For example, there are the steps by which the Democratic Party has been denatured and turned into Republican Party Lite. It's a sad tale and sorry end to the former People's party, but Nader's narrative makes for a handy reference and informative guide.<br />Sure, a lot of folks don't like Nader. I think he makes some uncomfortable with his air of self-conscious purity, plus angering a lot of well-meaning, but misguided Democrats. But like him or not, he does walk the walk, and few have witnessed insider Washington as closely as he has without selling out. So when he pronounces the Democratic Party a walking corpse without hope, that's not sour grapes, it's Anatomy Class 101.<br />Unlike most books, Nader's appendices make interesting reading for the names that are named and the records that are revealed. On the downside, little mention is made of the Florida scandal or those other banished debacles of 2002. Nor does he mention his final vote tally or percentage of returns. That may be because of a promising start which did not, as hoped, reach the matching funds essential to 2004 - figures which would also index that deadly voting booth virus known as the lesser-evil syndrome. Whatever the reason, he's presented us with both an educational tour through the lunar landscape of national elections and a good guide to who's responsible for sucking the air out of them.	2002-06-01
US	49102993	R3J01R3IDWN00X	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	3	23	26	N	N	I Expected Better	Basically a pastiche of articles from Vanity Fair, the Nation, and an unnamed Italian journal, the booklet would more aptly be subtitled \\"How Our Government Got To Be So Hated By So Many Of Its Citizens\\", right-wing citizens, that is. The main title led me to believe this would be Vidal's caustic response to Sept. 11, and the eruption of so-called international terrorism to which the President has pledged war without end. And while there is a brief chapter on that topic, the main thrust concerns Timothy Mc Veigh and domestic terrorism. This is not necessarily a bad thing, since Vidal  accesses a range of left opinion that has not by and large concerned itself with the story behind the Oklahoma City bomber. Personally, I found those chapters highly revealing and helpful in fleshing out a view of Mc Veigh and what he represents. Nonetheless, I was disappointed in the overall result which is largely fragmentary and even padded, (the 20 pages enumerating US campaigns abroad since 1947 is of contextual interest but does take up one-eighth of the total text). And though the author's famous mordant wit is on abundant display, I get the feeling the booklet was patched together  in response to the commercial demands of Sept. 11--but  that's a somewhat cynical observation on the master cynic himself. Still and all, readers looking for context to that horrific event or Bush's hegemonic doctrine of perpetual war for perpetual peace would do well to look elsewhere.	2002-05-15
US	49102993	RCEUY0U0598WL	0806521309	895794751	Did He Or Didn't He?: The Intimate Sex Lives of 201 Famous Men	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Tricky, but Fun	Okay, who's had whom in Hollywood?--maybe not the most burning question of the day, but of particular interest to those alive and breathing before the tell-all mags of today. Naturally, a book like this can only be taken seriously by backing up its claims, otherwise its just nasty gossip and who condones that--Right? Here, author Mart Martin plays a pretty canny game. Each male celebrity gets a full page of formatted headings profiling his sex life, including personal observations, comments from others, a brief history, and an all-important naming-names list of backstage romps. There's an extensive bibliography of mainly biographies and autobiographies from which, it appears, the primary material was drawn. There are no footnotes however, and though the comments are attributed by name, the crucial lists are not. Instead, they appear under the weasely heading 'Lovers, Flings, or Just Friends'. Thus, Nick Adams, for example, can appear in the notoriously homophobic Elvis Presley's scorecard without Martin getting hauled into court. Juicy--but not exactly binding. What the guidelines are for these bi-sexual inclusions only the author knows. Still and all, the comments from collegues and romantic interests are often a caustic hoot--Judith Campbell on Jerry Lewis, 'Although he is serious about his flirting, from a woman's point of view it is funnier than his pratfalls', Liberace on himself, 'Men are my kind of people'. Chances are you'll find your favorites among the 201 even if you don't want to. My only remaining questions are : when did scorecard denizens like Joan Crawford, Marilyn Monroe, or Mae West find time to make movies or Truman Capote to write books; and also, why is a photo of '2001: A Space Odyssey' actor William Sylvester presented as the Shah of Iran?--and who is that straight-haired inebriate pretending to be the kinky-haired Nicholas Ray? Come on, Mr. Martin, if we can't trust the photos, what about the text. Still, I couldn't put it down.	2002-05-07
US	49102993	R2PX8I4SZQWRR5	0786860081	768717848	We Played the Game: 65 Players Remember Baseball's Greatest Era, 1947-1964	Books	5	3	3	N	N	And They Played It Well	Reviewer Brislen has done a fine job of highlighting the virtues of this baseball compendium, and I recommend that readers read his review first. I have only a few points to add. Because the number of contributers is limited (65) and unevenly spread across the 17 year period, some teams and years are better represented than others. So readers wishing to follow the course of a single team or concentrate on a particular focal year may be disappointed. As to the negative side of the game--when they occur, the dislikes, criticisms, or revelations by the players are usually aimed at management, not at each other. Thus, for better or worse, those readers looking for a gossipy Ball Four writ-large may also be disappointed. Among players, there are two other recurring topics in addition to salary concerns : (1) drinking, some teams and players (usually unspecified) had a history generally unmentioned on the sports pages, and (2) race relations, the narrative presents an inside look at another subject generally untouched by sports columns of the time.<br />The year 1964 may mark the end of the great Yankee teams and the end of the Golden Age as recounted in the book, but its political context is also relevant. It's one year after the Kennedy assassination and one year before the great Vietnam build-up, two epochal events that have come to define an end to our national innocence. They also usher in a generational change marked by a greater willingness to challenge authority and the rules. In baseball, this rebellious spirit leads to an overturning of the restrictive reserve clause that tied players to a single team, and more subtlely, to an undermining of the working class ethic that so many fans found endearing. The pluses and minuses of these two key elements comprise something of an underlying theme that weaves in and out of the narratives, and lends the book broader historical significance.<br />Still and all, what lifts this work above so many others is the opportunity editor Peary provides to so many marginal and obscure players to tell their story, ones which really do constitute the fabric of the game, and how basically decent and attached to baseball these men are. Coming away from their stories, the reader begins to understand why this game alone, with its very unfashionable appearance and rhythms, has worked its way into the soul of a nation.	2002-05-03
US	49102993	R9C9P20QMKIGE	0872864057	838343161	The Terrorism Trap: September 11 and Beyond	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Needed Context	This little booklet does economically what the President cravenly forbids us to do--put the events of Sept. 11 into historical context. In succinct fashion, Parenti shows how US-led elimination of progressives in Afghanistan paved the way for Muslim fundamentalism as the governing ideology and sole remaining resistance to globalization. He also demonstrates how the terror attack facilitates the right-wing agenda here at home, creating conditions ripe for Security State exploitation. I particlarly like his riff on that platitude about \\"a world changed forever\\". There is also a refreshing absence of breast-beating over the horrific nature of the attack, since American sponsored atrocities of similar scope are rather common fare in the rest of the world. And though much of the interventionist material is familiar to Parenti readers, reminders of those atrocities are required by context. Still and all, I wish he had deepened Chapter one, the most topical chapter, which could have used more detailed discussion of the immediate aftermath. Nonetheless, Sept. 11 cries out for those perspectives systematically filtered out of the media as too threatening to corporate rule. As always, Parenti's commentary remains an enlightening one, and deserves to be read by all, especially those well-meaning folks blinded by bumper stickers and the blur of red, white and blue.	2002-04-23
US	49102993	R3O30SJOFQXWCS	0312959982	766536583	Salt of the Earth: A Mother, A Daughter, A Murder	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Bearing Up	All in all, this is a gripping narrative and an unusual entry in the true crime category. The murder itself, though horrifying, seems rather incidental to the book's main thrust that centers around a family's struggle for survival amidst harrowing circumstances. Reader's looking for true crime staples such as police methods, false leads, revelation and eventual capture, will be disappointed. On the other hand, those looking for suspense of a different--more sociological--kind will be richly rewarded by the resiliency and fortitude of a seemingly average American family. While very readable, the book has a few defects. A more astute editor could have shaved 15-20 pages from a sometimes repetitve narrative, providing a sharper, more focused, impact. Also, the killer represents an unusual and fascinating study in criminal pathology that deseves more attention than a cursory background profile. I get the impression that the author spent 90 percent of his interview time with Elaine, and productive though this is, more time filling out the killer's truly strange persona would have been illuminating--after all, the bone-cushing damage to a small girl's face by a big man's fist cries out for explanation. At a deeper level, the book stands as a fascinating glimpse into the traditional culture of patriarchy and machismo, and their destructive tendencies, with results that are both tragic and harrowing. Recommended.	2002-04-18
US	49102993	R1AU7UC2RQAQHA	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Pure Moore	Badly needed? Of course! Funny? Yes, at least most of the time! Funnier than Mollie Ivins or Jim Hightower whose books routinely cover much the same ground? Well... Not really. All three are expert at puncturing America's hot-air balloons with insight, research, and, of course, well aimed humor. Then why should this leftish jape top the charts in near unprecedented fashion -- a perhaps more interesting topic than the book itself. I don't have the answer, but I expect it has something to do with popular frustration, timing, and the Bush agenda of perpetual war on dissent and the planet. The book itself is rather uneven, ranging from a truly eloquent chapter on crime in America, to a revealing chapter on the Florida recount, to a mediocre Epilogue, to a poorly conceived \\"Kill Whitey\\". But, hey, a fella can't roll a 300 every time. Are white men indeed stupid? Aside from the pathetic ignoramus in the White House and the threat of global warming to which their response is business as usual, Moore has a clever title, a rich source of humor, but not much of a case. In fact the political arm of American capital has proven over time to be extremely unstupid at advancing its agenda. So unstupid, that it now stands on the threshold of world conquest. Poking fun is one thing, taking seriously is another. Their real stupidity comes from believing that the environment like everything else can be reduced to a businessman's short-term horizon. My gripe with genuine liberals like Moore centers around \\"Taking the country back\\".  Heck, Mike,  the people never had the country in the first place, not even during the sainted presidential years 1933 -1945. The really backward white men are those of us who've been slow to catch on.	2002-04-07
US	49102993	R27X04FUX2C0VF	0385290802	340813457	Trading With the Enemy: An Expose of the Nazi-American Money Plot, 1933-1949	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Hidden History	This is an astonishing book, even for those jaded by the routine amorality of international politics. How many Americans believe that WWII was anything other than a 100% patriotic effort by all sectors of society, including big business. At least, that's the way it's  portrayed in those assembly-line documentaries that serve as history texts for most of us. Turns out however that those governments above government such as Standard Oil, ITT, I.G. Farben, et. al., refused to let even a world war block the flow of profits and products, not only to friends, but to the enemy as well. All of which yields an interesting idea of where power really lies, since It also turns out that neither Hitler nor Roosevelt could challenge this supremacy -- both Allied and Axis war machines were dependent on corporation good will for materiel to fight the enemy! In the final analysis, the ambitions of both sides were beholden to the same international cartels and the leverage they wielded behind the scenes. (Check out  Standard Oil executive William Farish's lecture to chief trust-buster Thurman Arnold, p.66.) Thus, whoever won the war, the trans-nationals were guaranteed a continuing place on top,  their business networks intact. Moreover, trading with the enemy was made legal by Executive Order 8389, in which the Secretary of the Treasury was empowered to authorize such arrangements with the Axis powers. Certainly no hint of any of this in those high-kicking Hollywood tributes to the boys at the front, so popular at the time. We also get interesting glimpses of that ultimate Establishment figure FDR, as he weasles around the admirable likes of Harold Ickes, Arnold, and other  administration figures opposed to business as usual. Despite the occasional fuss, apparently no one blew the whistle on this deal making  at the top -- bad, I guess, for morale among a nation of 150 million ration stamp users.<br />An expose like this depends greatly on documentation and while I'm in no position to judge Higham's sources, extensive appendices are attached for those wishing to dig more critically. Assuming Executive Order 8389 as a minimum, it would seem that  standard histories of WWII have left out some of the most important parts, even in this, our most patriotic war. And who's to say that the vectors of power revealed by the book have altered in the meantime.  Though no longer in print, the book can still be obtained used and should be for the light it continues to cast.	2002-03-01
US	49102993	R1KG6JQYL9T3AO	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	80	99	N	N	There is an Alternative	Americans have a right to be mad-as-hell, but  no right to bomb-the-hell out of anyone else. Nor do our politicians have the right to declare open-ended war against any country of their choosing. It's hard to keep perspective following an atrocity like the twin towers, but keep perspective we must if we are not to repeat the same slaughter of innocents as the perpetrators of the attack. Applying standards of procedural justice is crucial to a fair and effective reckoning. The atrocity should be treated as a crime against humanity, not as an opportunity to launch aggression against entries on an administration hit-list. As an international crime, the machinery of world justice should be brought to bear on the perpetrators wherever they may be hiding. They should be tried and punished in a world court of law, not in the dog cages of Guantanamo. What's good enough for victims in Kosovo should be good enough for victims in New York. The alternative, to wage war against suspect coutries without clear standards or honest diplomatic effort, will only prolong the suffering, create more enemies, and militarize our society. Is the unhobbled supremacy of Corporate America worth that price. <br />Chomsky makes the case in clear and consistent terms, refusing at the same time to undergo an historical lobotomy as prescribed by the president. Nor is the irony of an architect of global terrorism declaring war on itself lost on the author. Probably no word in our lifetime is now so exploited as that tortured term. Despite media filtration, there is an alternative, as Chomsky shows, to the present destructive course and its fog of misdirected jingoism. Though a quickie and somewhat disjointed booklet, 9-11 presents the kind of perspective unavailable in the mainstream, and for that reason should be read. The urgency becomes even greater as Bush and Company plot more conquests, more adventures, and more weapons of destruction, leading to who knows where. Though the president and his bullies would force a choosing of sides, there remains a more civilized path. The global community must insist upon it.	2002-02-14
US	49102993	R2ZWKZEFM1A2K3	0671657585	189385431	Close-Ups: Intimate Profiles of Movie Stars by Their Co-Stars, Directors, Screenwriters, and Friends	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A Hollywood Cavalcade	This is a movie lovers book that should have some appeal to connosieurs. From Mary Pickford to the Three Stooges to Marlon Brando to Richard Dreyfuss, the selection is large, with names familiar to every movie-goer, including some not so familiar. The authors are also a diverse lot (usually directors or film writers), having either a personal or professional familiarity with their subject. This is both a boon and a bane. A boon, because of the opportunity for anecdotes or insights which only intimate friends or professionals can provide; a bane, because the tone and content of too many articles is too respectful. Readers would be better served by a greater critical distance between author and subject, so that the flaws of a more rounded human being can emerge. Too bad more profiles don't reach the level of Alvah Bessie's unforgettable reminiscence of Bette Davis, which is just the right mixture of sugar and spice. Still the entertainment value is high, and no book that includes the likes of Claude Rains, Lee J. Cobb, or Louise Brooks, can afford to be overlooked.	2002-02-03
US	49102993	R28OXQQ26RSLBA	0292770154	957770744	Reading Capital politically	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Struggle Continues	Now that the Soviet Union is gone, should Marx exit too? Before you dig that grave, check out working conditions world wide, from underage Asian sweatshops to desperate whitecollar temps to idled American steel workers. The Soviet Union may be gone, but by all evidence the class struggle of epic lore continues.     Obituaries to the contrary, Cleaver maintains Marxism is still very much alive, and most importantly, able to furnish strategies for defeating the reign of wage slavery. But first we have to stop reading Capital as though it's just economics. That has only brought us tyrannical communist parties, feckless parliamentary reformers, and ivory tower Kultur critics. The book's first half traces this misdirected path over the past century. The second half walks us through Capital's Chapter One with different spectacles on --  what Cleaver calls a \\"political reading\\". This fresh approach, Cleaver believes, reveals a political dimension long hidden by the old economist prism,  and one that is capable of turning Capital's overlooked human potential into effective worker strategizing against wage slavery.     How much of this is on target. Well, I wish Cleaver had updated this second edition from the 1970's to the 90's, because the 70's were a very different landscape from now. Capital has since morphed and gone on a rampage, replacing its crisis of the 70's with a worker's crisis of the new millenium. Too bad Cleaver's of little help in analyzing recent developments despite many nuggets along the way. Nonetheless, there remains the intellectual side. Cleaver certainly wants to bring back the human element, which is well and good, given the doubts cast upon structuralism and its exclusion of the subjective. But are working people the only uncontrollable card in the capitalist deck, as Cleaver asserts. What with lotteries, tv, and wall to wall news management, I begin to wonder. Still there's the book's main point: what about a political reading, new spectacles, andCapital-led strategizing. Aside from a few angles on use-value and exchange-value, and a really sparkling section on money and value, I'm not sure how much actual help a political reading is. But then I've always been a little myopic, so maybe he's owed the benefit. Three things I do know. As long as there is capital, there will be hungry workers, class struggle, and Karl Marx; and also that-- despite the superficial dismissal by reviewer Allen-- Cleaver's work remains an important contribution to the CLR James school of activism, and should be judged on its own merits.	2002-02-02
US	49102993	R2SP78HTYUCYLU	0671671723	988927823	Cult Baseball Players: The Greats, the Flakes, the Weird and the Wonderful	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Two-base Hit	Anyone wanting to wax nostalgic about baseball's past, particularly the 1940's, 50's and 60's, should pick up Peary's book. Anyone looking for a compendium of baseball's cult figures, particularly the weird or offbeat, may be disappointed. Each player gets a short revealing chapter penned by a different author. Like any compilation, the quality varies from chapter to chapter, from sports-column bland to personal reminiscense. But the range of major leaguers--from unknowns to certified greats--is broad enough to interest any fan. The gamut runs from legends like Mantle, Mays, Williams, Ruth, to middlings like Kluszewski, Colavito, Waitkus, to bottomers like Ueker, Throneberry and Bilko. There are the burn-outs too: Fidrych, Spooner, Belinsky; and most importantly the weird cases: Piersall, Lee, and my favorites, Joe Charboneau, and Steve Dalkowski. In fact, the book suffers from not including more of the latter, that is, those unknowns who have either an unusual flair or a distinctive story to tell. The greats have had their stories told many times over, making their inclusion seem unnecessary. It's the bottomers and oddballs where the real gold lies. Theirs are the stories that add genuine color and spice, showing that the game is defined by real human beings, not by the gods of hitting and pitching--and given baseball's rate of turnover, I'm sure their ranks are legion. (Good example not included in the book- Ryne Duran, whose 100mph fastball, Coke bottle eyesight, and Jack Daniels restbreaks, sent opposing players wild-eyed and running for cover.) Peary doesn't define cult as in cult ballplayers, but his successful film series defines cult movies by their distinctive qualities, not by their popularity or excellence. I wish he had applied more of those same standards to the fertile field of baseball. As it stands, the book remains something of a promising though unfulfilled project.	2002-01-24
US	49102993	R2OCOH6SFTKJEQ	0385303327	25497174	Alternate Oscars	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Power of Hindsight	Is 1979's Manhattan artistically better than 2001's Joe Dirt? That's easy. Almost any film is artistically superior to the bottom-feeding Joe Dirt. But is Manhattan superior to the same year's Norma Rae? That's hard to decide. Both are credible candidates for awards from that year. I would select Norma Rae over Manhattan; on the other hand, Danny Peary prefers Manhattan. The point is that in such matters as artistic awards, the best that can be hoped for is credibility, not the finality of a Joe Dirt. Danny Peary's alternate Oscars have more credibility, in my view, than the Academy's.<br />I'm concluding this on the basis of his selections from the 1940's, 50's, and 60's, the era I'm most famitiar with. This is also an era of studio domination, when the five major studios and the two minors engineered selections based on the money side of the industry, not the artistic. For example, big budget, prestige films dominated the nominations of 1956, including the syrupy The Ten Commandments, the Broadway hit musical The King and I, the over-produced Giant, and the eventual winner, the highly mercandised and gimmicky Around the World in 80 Days. Except for James Dean in Giant, how many of those films are remembered today. Yet anyone who has seen Peary's picks--The Searchers, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and The Killing-- remembers them distinctly. Because of both theme and handling, these films register at a deeper, more lasting level than the passing spectacle of the former, a good indication of superior artistic merit.<br />This is not meant to extrapolate into a theory of merit nor a blanket dismissal of Academy selections. Some years the picks were more credible than others. But it does point up the reigning dichotomy of that era between A-movies on one hand and B-movies on the other, with B-films by dint of their inferior budget deemed unworthy of Award consideration. Yet in retrospect, the lowly B-budgeted Body Snatchers and the independently produced The Killinghave proved a staying power far beyond the A-budgeted, highly merchandised nominees of that year. And Danny Peary is dead-on in trying to right this historical wrong. Other examples of grievous B-movie neglect could be cited.<br />My reasoning here applies only to the studio era when B-movies were produced. Nonetheless, the decline of that centralised system into today's more decentralised system doesn't mean that engineering the Awards has given way to artistic merit. I expect the mechanics are just as venal now as then, but because  the industry has spread out, are harder to generalise about. Anyway, Peary's is a good, thought-provoking book that should provide plenty of grist for anyone interested in the movies. He rates in three categories: Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best Actress, explaining his choices in each, and wisely avoiding the convoluted minefields of Best Director. He not only has an appreciation of film, but a feel for movies that affect the audience. After all, in retrospect, how could the Best Film Award of 1960 have gone to any movie other than the B-budgeted Psycho. Thanks Mr. Peary for paying that long overdue bill.	2002-01-18
US	49102993	RLABC065CCE1A	0822324911	179188644	The Invention of Capitalism: Classical Political Economy and the Secret History of Primitive Accumulation	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Setting the Record Straight	You're self-employed, with many religious holidays, and while you're not rich, at least you're getting along. So why give this up to become a wage worker for somebody else, with little spare time, and a struggle for subsistence. Despite obvious simplifications, this is a core problem confronting capital at the dawn of the modern era, known also as primitive accumulation. How, that is, can self-sufficient peasants and others of similar status be converted into subservient factory hands, an obvious degradation. Yet without some such conversion, where would the labor for fields and factories come from if not the rural economy. To meet the need, New World colonies imported slaves and indentured servants. But Great Britain needed a new social division of labor, one that would stock emerging markets with commodities from a work force employed by a new social class. As conditions stood, the capitalist equation was only half complete--a wage labor class was needed.<br />Perelman examines the problem through the eyes of early political economists such as Adam Smith. What he finds is disturbing. Smith and followers generally suppress the real historical conflict, replacing actual coercive measures (game laws, etc.) with imaginary allusions to voluntary choice, as though worker autonomy was willingly swapped for a dependent wage rate. Nonetheless, voluntarism preserves the fiction of an immaculate conversion, and comports with market relations as an irresistable harmonizing force --the Smithian paradigm. However, other early thinkers primarily James Steuart are more candid than Smith, arguing that state intervention is necessary to separate working people from their subsistence, forcing them into the labor pool. As an analyst of the period, the obscure Steuart stands as a more accurate guide, in Perelman's view, than the celebrated author of The Wealth of Nations. Nevertheless, all the early economists, it appears, are eager to assist a nascent capitalist class in its quest for primitive accumulation. Yet, among them, Smith offers the most elegantly stated and publicly palatable version. Therefore, it is his version of a bloodless voluntarism that dominates an official record which even now continues to mislead. In short, orthodox opinion to the contrary, Smith and company operate as apologists of capital first, social scientists second.<br />This is an important and controversial contention. Perelman marshalls considerable evidence to support the thesis. Moreover, he argues that despite common impressions, primitive accumulation is not an historical relic, but continues in many parts of the globe. An important -- though unargued--theoretical point also emerges. Smithian thought characterizes market relations as a kind of natural necessity, like Law of Gravity; Marxian thought characterizes them as an historical necessity, a stage on the way to communism. According to both popular schools, there is something inevitable--beyond choice--about capitalist production relations . If I understand Perelman correctly, these same relations are understood as in no sense inevitable. Instead they are invented. History could have taken a non-capitalist course, and still can-- a key step in confronting the inequities of a post-Cold War world.<br />The author's style is accessible to the serious but non-professional. And except for a really murky last chapter on Smith and Lenin, the work stands as a solid and provocative piece of research. Recommended.	2002-01-11
US	49102993	R2JIRSCSGEY4PO	0942637747	885499579	The Secret Life of Bob Hope: An Unauthorized Biography	Books	4	39	48	N	N	The Downside of a Legend	Bob Hope, America's comedian -- at least among white middle-Americans of a certain age. But like any institution, and he is an institution, there is a downside to one of the country's favorite success stories. Arthur Marx pulls no punches in characterizing Hope's many flaws. Chief are the secretly promiscuous womanizing, the penny-pinching among staffers, the ceaseless self-promotion, and a generally curmudgeonly personality. Not really bad stuff, like mixing with gangsters or playing with drugs, the sorts of things Hollywood is generally prone to. But bad enough to tarnish a nurtured image as family man and patriot. Many readers will avoid a tell-all book like Marx's for that sort of defensive reason. Moreover, I get the feeling that like many in Hollywood Marx respects Hope the comedian at the same time he generally dislikes the man. Nonetheless, he is careful to point out Hope's many strengths as a performer -- his matchless ability with one-liners; his energy, verve and sass; his tireless dedication to servicemen,(which appears genuine); and his shrewd sense of the business. Additionally, Hope makes up for a lack of creative spark with a sound sense of comedy, which has helped him stay on top for a remarkable period. I like the way Marx has included excerpts from routines to provide period flavor. They furnish a sense of popular humor over time, and Hope was an expert purveyor of popular tastes until at least the 1960's when the unpleasant war-mongering side took over. Marx's style is easy and readable. Even so, as another reviewer has pointed out, there is a notable shortage of citations to back up fact. What there are consists of a list of persons interviewed for the book, which seems a little over general for a work of this type. Nevertheless, many allegations are also attributed by name from the list of interviewees. So, however you take it, be prepared for an eye-level approach to a legend who is also very much a flawed individual.	2001-12-28
US	49102993	R21PUG4107DPXV	0312056036	587944282	Make-Believe Media: The Politics of Entertainment	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Why Archie Bunker and not Eugene Debs	To hear newscasters avoid talk about class in America, you'd think the concept is as obsolete as the Soviet Union.Yet Michael Parenti continues to insist that class bias not only spreads out from the heart of society, but shapes it. Here he looks at TV's entertainment role in preserving social privilege. From popular stereotypes such as the Lone Ranger and his third-world flunky Tonto, to the invisible world of labor, to the well-meaning but misunderstood plutocrat, Parenti exposes capitalism's self-serving myths as portrayed on the little screen. Sure it's fun to kick around TV and a lot of people do it, but Parenti does it in a highly informative way that confronts our last remaining taboo - the role of wealth and power in American life.<br />Maybe the best chapter concerns profits and censorship. It's no news to point out that the networks and advertisers are in it for the money. But it is news to point out those instances when producers actually forego profits for the sake of respectability. Parenti details instances when industry has eaten losses rather than jeopardise the system of wealth and power it serves. For example, Procter & Gamble, TV's biggest advertiser, makes this allegiance clear by banning all content critical of Wall Street and the Pentagon from scripts it sponsors. In fact, most scripts - as Parenti shows - go through not 1, but 4 levels of censorship. No wonder, the public walks around in an ideological haze wondering why the world hates us -- and so much for the dollar sign's being more important than the system of which it is a part.<br />Another telling chapter concerns one of entertainment's most popular myths: \\"We only give 'em (the audience) what they want.\\" Sounds good. But, as Parenti documents, despite this appeal to democratic ideals, the entertainment marketplace is anything but democratic. He sketches out control points or nerve centers that reduce real choice to pseudo choice, sort of like a multiple choice question whose options are narrowed to a desired range of outcome. All this is made sorrier by indications that American audiences respond to forbidden topics on those rare occasions when they seep through. <br />No book that debunks the FBI's screen role in the civil rights movement, or points out the class conditioning behind TV's version of Treasure Island, can afford to be overlooked. Whatever the book lacks in depth is more than made up for in focus. Despite his unperson status, Parenti remains a key figure among dissident academics banished to the book-selling fringes. Recommended to all those who understand TV viewing as anything but a passive pastime.	2001-10-17
US	49102993	R1Z8IJL8FGY900	1888363495	847698617	Media Control: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Pamphlet)	Books	5	34	42	N	N	Excellent Primer	An excellent little primer on propaganda in America, its origins, rationale, and uses. Readers may be surprised to learn that propaganda techniques have their origin in America's public relations industry. Specifically, in the need of modern democratic governments to shape perceptions and direct popular hostility. Lacking cruder coercive measures of totalitarian states, elected governments depend on managing information and creating popular conceptions to achieve their aims. These can then be exploited to carry out policies which may benefit only a few to the detriment of the many (attacks on Vietnam, Central America, et. al.). America's intellectual elites, as Chomsky makes clear, have historically supported such techniques, believing the common herd too ignorant to rule themselves. The task is best left to those elites, who, as Chomsky also makes clear, go on to serve the interests of the country's highest elite, the business and corporate sector where real power lies. Thus in the past 75 years, propaganda has become a standard tool of governance in the US, subverting the dictionary definition of what democracy is supposed to be. Many Americans feel the truth of this in their bones, so to speak, but have trouble admitting it. Patriotism's first allegiance, however, should be to truth, comfortable or not. And in that very necessary sense, Chomsky's is a solidly patriotic book indeed, pleasant reading or not.	2001-10-02
US	49102993	R1LTXF0DEQWFBQ	1859847897	593081815	A New Generation Draws the Line: Kosovo, East Timor and the Standards of the West	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Old wine, New bottles	This is scholar and public servant Noam Chomsky at his analytic best. The focus is &quot;new internationalism where the brutal repression of whole ethnic groups will no longer be tolerated,&quot; as thunderingly stated by British Prime Minister Tony Blair. Never content with rhetoric, Chomsky examines the record of new internationalism for actual results, paticularly in test cases like East Timor, Kosovo, and NATO member Turkey with its repressed Kurdish population. The tone is sober, the style searching, the results depressing for a new millenium, demonstrating that more of the same old bloody double-standard wine is being served, this time in new rhetorical bottles. There's no need to editorialize on the professor's findings. They speak eloquently for themselves. Instead a salute is due him: his tireless ongoing pursuit of truth, pleasant or not, his refusal to bow down before the gods of government and media, his steady deep regard for the powerless and voiceless - all in modest, accessible fashion - recommend him as the conscience of the nation and the hope of a better America.	2001-09-16
US	49102993	R28RNXNE2OLJK5	0872863573	885276502	History as Mystery	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Worthy	One thing politicians and generals dread more than defeat on the battlefield is the shattering of their belief system. For better or worse, soldiers can be replaced, their presence being only numbers to the war-planners in the first place. But shred the beliefs that put those soldiers in the field, and political upheaval looms. The US suffered a stunning military defeat in Vietnam. But more importantly, a belief system was shattered, crushed between the benign ideals of democracy and the genocidal demands of empire. Thousands returned home, traumatized, forever changed by what they had seen, thought, or done. More than victims of war, they were victims of a belief system that could not stand the test of reality.    History as Mystery doesn't try to explain the Vietnam calamity. It does however give us a good idea how the unsuspecting many can be made to march off and die for the moneyed few. Those who don't know their own political history, in a very real sense, don't know themselves. Parenti shows how history is written as a self-serving process by elites. The process is sometimes clumsy, sometimes refined, but always geared toward preserving the privileged role of wealth and power. Parenti takes on schools, churches, and publishers as central agents in this belief forming process. The picture that emerges is not a pretty one, but sometimes the most important truths are the ugliest,(the Freeman travesty being even uglier).    Parenti's style is easy and accessible to all, and though heavily footnoted, this is a work geared toward a popular audience. On the downside, the parts appear stitched together and lacking in overall coherence. Still the contents are for the most part invaluable, and while certainly not a classic, like most Parenti books, this one too stands as an eyeopener. However, don't expect to see Parenti's title or name any time soon in the history classroom. Doing so would only make our next imperial war that much harder to fight.	2001-09-14
US	49102993	R3243MVH0PJ4GE	1569800928	220001844	Edd Byrnes: Kookie No More	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Almost the Ginchiest	Like a kleenex, Hollywood more or less tossed Edd Kookie Byrnes aside when no longer wanted. Following two or three teen-idol glory years, he was left to work the fringes, unable to give up the fast life or celebrity, hoping for another break that for even youthful has-beens seldom comes. Still and all, for a brief moment he was a center of worship and celebrity that very few ever experience. 77 Sunset Strip was a glamorous trend-setting series, the first non-western series I believe to be produced by a movie studio and certainly a welcome contrast to the blander boilerplate of the day. Kookie's character made the show. Teenagers loved him. His easy going smile and hipster lingo were infectious, turning the Sunset Strip into a kind of a Mecca for America's young people, even serving as a site for some of the Vietnam era's earliest clashes with police. Now  Byrne's icon is known mainly to those of his own generation grown nostalgic about the past.<br />I wish I could rate the book more highly, but aside from the harrowing early years before Hollywood, Byrnes (surprisingly) doesn't reveal much about the glory years, especially his sudden disappearance from the limelight. Here the real personal story lies not in Byrnes' later bout with alcohol or courageous recovery, which truth be told is standard celebrity fare since the fast track usually drives its commuters to excess. Instead the real story lies in how Byrnes was blackballed from the studios at the height of his tv career because of contract dispute with Warner Bro's. Like James Garner of the Maverick series, Byrnes bucked his tv contract hoping to make the jump into the steadier, more lucrative world of movie making. Garner made it, Kookie didn't. There's the real story of his professional life and I wish he had shared it with us as generously as he does his bout with the bottle. There's also a cautionary tale to be told about the price of celebrity that only someone like Edd Byrnes, experiencing both meteoric rise and fall, can convey. Come on, Mr. Byrnes, you've earned the right to wax philosophical about your life in show business. Kick back and share it. Meanwhile, somewhere on the sunny side of my soul, it will always be 1959 with Kookie's carefree smile ever there to push back the shadows.	2001-08-31
US	49102993	RMQH48CNFVG0Q	0684838834	520743760	John Waynes America	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Spotty Trail	This is a maddening book, so full of promise it never really delivers on. Yet I've read it twice, something I don't usually do. Though some might argue, the subject is an important one:  the mythic stature of John Wayne as American hero. Given his unparalleled popularity over the years, Wayne's elevation poses some serious questions.  Namely, how did this fame come about, and what does the elevation of a cowboy actor to national icon reveal about ourselves. Understanding this revered status should at least tell us something about the mind-set of American men, if not women (Wayne has never been as popular with the latter as with the former, Wills observes). I think it helps to get at the way Wills presents the Wayne phenomenon to target three levels.<br />First, there is Wayne the person, the man. Wills doesn't devote much space to this level, though the book's subtitle, i.e. \\"The Politics of Celebrity\\", might suggest otherwise. Very little is presented of Wayne's personal life or controversial political stances. Most of what is presented are efforts to either debunk popular fictions from the early years, or to pass along opinions of others, which about the man are usually unflattering, (Ford's disapproval of Wayne's lack of war service). Clearly the author believes Wayne's mythic status comes from the screen and not from the private individual.<br />The second level is Wayne the actor, the commanding screen presence. Despite many insights along the way, Wills falters badly by spending way too much time on seemingly irrelevant details of John Ford's personality and film style, many of which (the diagrams of seating arrangements in \\"Stagecoach\\", for example), shed no light on Wayne the actor. Wills' s preoccupation with Ford to the exclusion of Wayne is a serious defect, which may imply that the author found Ford the more compelling of the two, and could not restrain himself. Yet it is not Ford who is enshrined in the national consciousness, it is Wayne.<br />The third level is the most important:  Wayne the mythic figure, the mirror in which we catch our own reflection. Here Wills both succeeds and fails. He succeeds by linking the Wayne figure with some of our most enduring national myths:  unbounded western horizons, uncorrupted primitive, Jeffersonian ideal. But here in the book's last chapter, which should bring together the preceding 300 pages but which is only 12 pages long, there is no real synthesis of what has gone before. There is no effort at showing how, despite the many pages given over to him, Ford' romanticized vision of the Old West shapes the Wayne myth, or how that same vision embodies enduring national myths, or how to a lesser degree Hawk's vision taps into those same legends through the Wayne figure. In short, Wills fails at this crucial third stage to adequately fill in the blanks between Wayne the actor and Wayne the myth.<br />I get the feeling the author intended a deeper work than is there in the result, but instead got sidetracked on underdeveloped details that end up shedding little light on the Wayne phenomenon. Too bad, because there is an important project still unfulfilled. Certainly Wills has the skills to bring it off. I only wish he had.	2001-08-22
US	49102993	R1Q17AGP34LFB9	0465043690	969448338	A Grand Delusion: America's Descent Into Vietnam	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Laser-like	Sure the book is lengthy, but so was American involvement in Vietnam. The value of Mann's work is as a single volume history that focuses laser-like on the backdoor political story, an aspect of the conflict that usually gets much less attention than headline-grabbing military or protest developments.  All in all, the book sheds much needed light on 30 years of deceitful shenanigans in Washington that left 3,000,000 Vietnamese dead, 50,000 Americans dead, and generations of wounds, emotional and physical, that will probably never heal. As the book shows, Americans are correct in not trusting their government, especially as it behaves abroad.    Mann walks us through a revealing series of presidential administrations and  policies, starting with Truman's, and ending with Ford's. Each has a role in gearing up the meat grinder, some more honorably than others, but none comes off looking good as the country spirals ever downward toward disillusion and defeat. Ditto for the senators who opposed the war (Fulbright, Mc Govern, Mansfield, et. al.), lawmakers who, despite hours of pious rhetoric, could never get their legislative act together. Scarce mention is made of military or protest developments except when either influences major political decisions. As a much needed political chronicle of that 30 year span, the book succeeds admirably.    Mann's perspective is primarily a liberal one (which probably explains one particularly misleading review), but favors no individuals, liberal, conservative, or radical. He emphasizes the extent to which official hands were tied by red-baiting rhetoric of the cold war, in which every communist, be he nationalist or internationalist, was seen as taking his marching orders from Moscow. Such cramped thinking refused to distinguish a national liberation movement from an international communist conspiracy, thereby setting policy on a one way track from which there was no exit. On these matters, Mann is on solid ground. But on the alliedtopic of the domino theory, there is more truth to that theory than liberals such as Mann like to admit. The problem for defenders of the theory is that southeast Asia is not where the dominoes fell. Rather they fell in Central Africa (Angola, Mozambique, the collapse of the Portuguese empire) and Central America (Nicaragua, El Salvador, to a degree Guatemala). As more recent documentation has shown, rebel movements in each of these contested venues were boosted considerably by US defeat, demoralization, and subsequent lessening of a will to intervene. So in the rather ironical sense of being right for the wrong reasons, conservatives understood better than liberals the global stakes of intervention in southeast Asia. Be that as it may, Mann has written a very readable and revealing account of how Washington got us into that bloody mess in the first place.	2001-08-11
US	49102993	RLIR4YUEIA4XQ	0292731388	471279887	Class Struggle in Hollywood, 1930-1950: Moguls, Mobsters, Stars, Reds, and Trade Unionists	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Needed Light	Reviewer Everitt's remarks capture the book's essential value. Several points however merit emphasis. First, Horne's book brings out the symbiotic relation between the studios' desire for non-independent company unions, on one hand, and organized crime's desire for  corrupt unions, on the other. By taking in one another's washing during the tumultuous events of '45 - '47, these two representatives of private capital maintained an alliance that defeated efforts by the Conference of Studio Unions to emerge as an independent union of movie-making employees.  Horne the historian is detailed about this sinister and under-reported alliance. Second, by using abundant primary sources, the author debunks the nurtured image of CSU as a communist-led movement, a scare tactic still in its infancy following the anti-fascist  WWII and, as the book shows, a tactic used to increasing effect by the corporate-owned press of the day. Belated communist support for CSU strikers was willfully twisted by these flacks into communist domination. Third, the inability of the CSU to cross racial and gender lines of the day is emphasized. This had the unfortunate effect of reducing potential for attracting outside allies, especially among aggrieved African-Americans and women's groups, though it's hardly surprising that prejudices within the union would reflect those of the larger society from which it sprang. It's fascinating to follow this dark underside of the Hollywood dream factory, though I did find time shifts in the narrative confusing at times. Nonetheless, Horne has focused his word-camera on a worthy and neglected real life drama.	2001-06-23
US	49102993	RY3PX5DXIRVN3	0312975589	202586105	Been There, Done That: An Autobiography	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Decadence defined	Eddie and Debbie, Debbie and Eddie, America's sweethearts. I'm not surprised this idyll was largely a tabloid invention. I am surprised that a mutual dislike has run as long and as deep as it has, at least according to Eddie, in this his second tell-all autobiography. No one comes off looking good, least of all, Fisher, who - in a guilt-ridden life - seems most sensitive to being a deficient father. Still, it's an odd series of revelations: drug addiction, sex addiction, faux romance, and easy money - easy come, easy go, except for Liz who really got to his elusive soul, dragging that shrunken core across the stage for all to see. Despite this potential, the up's and down's are related in the most monotonic style imaginable, facts without emotion, words without feeling. It feels to this reader like a mimicked confession. Yet I believe his facts, the name dropping. Most of all, I believe his acerbic assessment of Liz. He may not be an object of sympathy, but as a source of insight into the rich and famous, he has the experience. (I wish someone could have followed up on those two fascinating remarks about the Kennedy brothers' assassination from Jackie Kennedy and, of all people, Gen. Curtis Le May!) Fisher himself comes off as the consummate opportunist, weak-willed and directionless, parlaying a golden throat and cuddly smile into a lifetime of  obsessive self-indulgence. Above all, however, the book gives us insight into the fast track of Washington and Hollywood, the money, the power, the egos, and finally and most emphatically, the decadence - sort of like an old De Mille classic on the fall of ancient Rome. For that alone, it's worth the read.	2001-06-10
US	49102993	R3HKFYMVH6MKRA	014010478X	559541888	Dark Victory: Ronald Reagan, MCA and the Mob	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Dark Nexus	Anyone looking for the smoking gun on Ronald Reagan and organized crime will be disappointed. The future president emerges from these pages as the affably forgetful frontman for big business that the knowledgable public has long known him to be. Moldea traces the actor's well-known forgetfulness back to 1952 and investigations into sweetheart deals between Reagan's Screen Actor's Guild and Jules Stein's sinister conglomerate, MCA. What emerges from this is an apprenticeship period in which the future president hones his frontman skills and practices selective memory, while big business comes to appreciate certain show business talents. Not exactly news bulletin material.<br />On a more newsworthy note, Moldea documents a series of protracted associations between such mob frontmen as Sidney Korshak, Hollywood tycoons like Lew Wasserman, union leaders of many stripes, and political insiders such as Reagan's William French Smith and Paul Laxalt, the Democrat's Paul Ziffren, and even the political left's Jerry Brown who seems peculiarly proud of Korshak's friendship and support. This is not a pretty picture, and while no criminal disclosures are made, there appears no doubt that such high echelon representatives of big business, the mob, and politics intersect at critical junctures far from public knowledge and scrutiny. This is not conspiracy theory, as some apologists would have it. Rather, it's a picture of high-level business conducting itself as business, and only a hopeless naif would believe that no mutual benefit from these associations is involved, as when master fixer Korshak steps in to protect hotel owners from a potntially damaging food-handlers strike. After all, Korshak's juice in these matters certainly doesn't come from a law school diploma, even an Ivy League one.<br />The implications here go far beyond Ronald Reagan's questionable career to reach into the very bowels of the democracy and what government by the people means. For this reason alone, Moldea's book should be read.	2001-06-04
US	49102993	R185JZDWAEHS1Q	0312089015	799928793	Swift Justice: Murder & Vengeance In A California Town	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating	Farrell's book rises above the usual boilerplate standards of true crime writing. The style is literate, the narrative crisp, the results fascinating. I'm not surprised that this grisly episode has been hushed up for years in the san Jose area. I grew up close to the infamous Ludlow massacre of striking coal miners in Colorado circa 1913, and heard nothing about it. Civic pride can cover a multitude of crimes. What distinguishes this sorry episode is the generally respectable standing of the parties involved. Surprisingly, the kidnappers were local, middle-class non-itinerants, while the lynch mob - far from the usual redneck cast - comprised solid citizens of the day, including students from pious Santa Clara University. One wonders how many other gruesome murders occurred in that same area that failed to arouse even the passing interest of this same upstanding citizenry. Anyway, this is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in America's hidden past., and it should be noted  that a riveting 1950 movie, &quot;Try and Get Me&quot;, was based on the Hart kidnapping. It features perhaps the most dramatic lynch scenes ever staged by Hollywood, and is out on video.	2001-05-25
US	49102993	R380GKR3L4S919	0520205197	111969446	Deep Politics and the Death of JFK	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Innovative	It wouldn't be fair to say that Scott is the first investigator to present a theory of conspiracy theory, but it is tempting. Instead `deep politics' is presented as a method of investigation, and not as a more complex theory. Still, deep politics is probably the most interesting facet of the book, which consists mostly of facts already made familiar by literature on the crime. Unlike conventional social theory which excludes the role of the irrational in its researches - deep politics allows that criminal elements routinely participate in the actions of government at all levels.These elements -  typified in the role of double agent, such as a Ruby or Oswald - exist as much within government as without, and represent a merging of   otherwise disparate cultures at a deep level of contact. Therefore, traditional efforts to separate the underworld of crime from the overworld of government, or to render them merely accidental or temporary, are profoundly misleading, even if popularly accepted.<br />Evidence of this deep symbiosis confronts us time and again, as in the case of Watergate, Scott argues. But as a nation, such knowledge is repressed because it's too threatening to how we picture ourselves and our world. As a people, however, we need to confront this dark truth, not only to advance democracy but our self-understanding as well. Thus the Kennedy assassination with its undeniable ties to the twilight world serves as a national mirror through which we see ourselves only obscurely. True, most Americans reject official versions of the assassination, yet how many would acknowledge the role of deep politics and the symbiosis revealed in the details. Scott's is a provocative thesis that presses the belief that the interests of government and crime coincide at key points, producing an unholy relationship at the very foundations of the society.<br />Clearly *Deep Politics* with its professorial overtones does not typify the literature devoted to Kennedy and the end of the New Frontier. (What other book, for example, hints at a `deconstruction' of organized crime, the Mafia, and `shadow government'  - innovations sure to catch the eye of French academic circles.) Though worthy topics in their own right, there is no discussion here of magic bullets, second shooters, or the immediate facts of the killing itself. True to method, Scott concentrates  on those deeper interfaces surrounding key players, most obviously Oswald, Ruby, and Hoover, and the indications these might reveal as to the authors of the crime. I think it's fair to say that the results are rather meager and unsurprising. Still the idea of deep politics (which as a method could be applied to any society) appears solidly grounded in the realities of  20th century America.	2001-04-07
US	49102993	RWQHU19YGEJAF	0813368170	808022984	The Race To The Bottom: Why A Worldwide Worker Surplus And Uncontrolled Free Trade Are Sinking American Living Standards	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Freefall to Nowhere	Readers looking for ammunition in the ongoing battle against globalization would do well to pick up this book. It's not an unmixed triumph of analysis, but the author succeeds in putting a perspective on the results of globalization so far. His thesis is simple but devastating. Despite the media hype from politicians, economists, and other corporate types, popular perceptions are not wrong: globalization is driving down American living standards. Such sacrifices might be acceptable were there real prospects of a globally-led improvement down the road. However, Tonelson also argues that such promised benefits will fail to materialize unless real changes are made in policy currently defining global integration. It's the book's burden to carry out these claims, which, I believe, the author does with varying degrees of success. The book itself is compact and to the point, with few graphs, but sufficient statistics that are well integrated into the text, and a metculously footnoted appendix - All of which make for unencumbered reading.<br />Two points concerning the contents. Tonelson, like many others, gets careless in equating globalization with free trade. The two are not only conceptually distinct, but as the author himself shows, distinct in practice as well. For example, protectionist frameworks in many countries have encouraged &quot;offsets&quot;, which amount to tradeoff schemes whereby the host country extracts concessions from foreign investors in return for project approval. Offsets have been a significant force behind &quot;outsourcing&quot; and the loss of good American jobs, quite apart from free-market measures such as NAFTA.Thus outsourcing as an aspect of global integration will likely drain American jobs with or without open markets. Second, Tonelson's solution to globalism's woes lies in US &quot;unilateralism&quot;. Basically unilateralism amounts to getting tough with America's industrialized trading pardners, using domestic market access to leverage protected markets, such as Japan's. There is a well known risk here that the author unfortunately bypasses. As previous administrations have understood, a policy of unilateralism risks shattering the fragile multilateral framework kept in place for 50-odd years by US hegemony. Though trade wars are no longer certain in a nuclear age to end in shooting war, their outcome is highly uncertain and bound to loose unforeseeable consequences. Yet, Tonelson makes a strong point when he argues that the US cannot continue to act as purchaser of last resort in order to keep a harmonious framework in place. Something has to give. There is a real question implicit in a proposal like unilateralism, unaddressed in the book. Have the needs of an emerging global economy finally exhausted the era of Pax Americana, and, if so, what will take its place?	2001-03-31
US	49102993	R1CZXXV5GRXWIG	052133831X	839035915	An Introduction to Karl Marx	Books	2	17	23	N	N	Truth in Packaging	An introduction should be just that, an introduction. At the very least, this means that exposition should predominate over commentary. When a work reverses those roles, the result is commentary, not introduction, regardless of title or pretensions to the contrary.This is basic to the genre, and has nothing to do with allegiance on part of writer, reader, or reviewer. The axiom that a  reader cannot judge intelligently without first understanding what is being judged (in this case Marx) underlies the significance of exposition to an introduction, and speaks to an elementary point that apparently eludes the overzealous reviewer below. Properly understood, Elster's work is commentary, with its own agenda, and scant if any attention to the  needs of  introduction, let alone a good one. (Notice how Elster's preferred  methodology is given priority of place  and then used to critique what little is presented of Marx's.) I would have no quarrel were the book titled *Elster on Marx* or *Making Sense of Marx*. Nor do I necessarily have a quarrel with those who criticize or revise Marx. But to title a work Introduction and then bury a smattering of  exposition inside a running critique - no matter how worthy or not the commentary - is to do reader and purchaser a disservice. Unfortunately, the book is about Elster, not Marx, and while there are many other introductions that do the job properly, this is not one of them. And, no, Mr. Ver Sluys, this is not about that tiresome chestnut of subservience to Marx - for that, I suggest you check your own effusions on Elster. What it is about is truth in packaging for readers who wish to make up their own minds.	2001-03-16
US	49102993	R1RQBUZYA3IAKX	0231106068	281461705	Post-Soviet Russia	Books	4	10	10	N	N	For the serious, but non-expert	Roy Medvedev has proven himself a stubbornly independent observer of                    soviet, now Russian, policy for the past several decades. Given the extremes of Western anti-communism and anti-sovietism, I wanted a book without inbuilt bias, one that could take a level-headed look at the tumultuous events in Russia over the last fifteen years, particularly as they affected the average Russian who was the supposed beneficiary of these epochal changes. By and large, the book doesn't disappoint. Medvedev follows a rough timeline beginning in 1990 with a soviet regime in the throes of collapse and ending with Putin's unexpected ascension in 2000 to head of state and an uncertain future. The ten year interval  can only be characterized as a series of incompetent failures, akin to comic opera were the consequences not so tragic for the average citizen. Medvedev does a good job of tracing the events and personalities involved in bringing about  collapse of the nation's economy, particularly its financial arm. Perhaps the book's centerpiece, however, is an extended discussion of why Western style capitalism was doomed from the start as communism's successor. Here many factors, cultural, political, economic, come into play, creating an effective block to the one-style-fits-all prescriptions of Western shock therapists. All in all, it's a stimulating discussion with many insights into the country's current mess. I would have liked more attention to the pernicious role Russia's oligarchs played in beggaring the economy, and to the views of the average citizen on what was happening, but each  remains a shadowy presence on a stage monopolized by politicians and economists. Still, Medvedev's amounts to an excellent reference for the serious reader looking to get past the headlines of the day.	2001-03-12
US	49102993	RPXNVQ6H0ZLPJ	1567510523	835819431	Killing Hope: U. S. Military and CIA Interventions Since World War II	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Definitive	Blum's book is probably the definitive overview of major American interventions since WWII, some 55 in number involving either direct military intervention or covert CIA-led subversion. Complementing this inclusive catalogue is a powerful on-target introduction to the new edition, which itself is a revised and updated version of 1986's *CIA: A Forgotten History*. If you are looking for a single volume compendium of US presence abroad, no holds barred, this is the book to get. <br />There is little need for editorial comment  in these accounts of how the Pentagon-CIA axis keeps the world safe for Western commercial interests, or how effectively they remove the `Free' from the Free World  we are told they protect. Instead, Blum lets the record speak for itself, much as Noam Chomsky does in his series of expose's. The picture that emerges is not a pretty one,  so be prepared in these pages to deal with  realities unprocessed by the usual corps of Washington beauticians.	2001-03-07
US	49102993	R31FU3OSZX82JN	0451408713	733810235	Who Killed Jonbenet Ramsey? (Onyx True Crime, Je 871)	Books	4	94	101	N	N	Solid	There are many books on the Ramsey case. I chose Wecht's because of his solid work on the Kennedy assasination, his outstanding experience as a medical examiner, and his reputation for hard-nosed independence. On the whole, I was not disappointed, though the book does not work well as an introduction to the case. As could be expected, Wecht concentrates on his specialty - what JonBenet's autopsy reveals about the crime. His findings in this regard are very emphatic, and are underscored by a refusal to speculate about the case as a whole. Those readers looking for revealing scenarios will be disappointed; the book sticks closely to the facts without indicting anyone, though the no nonsense conclusion states that the crime was almost certainly a family affair. Neither does the author dwell on the notorious infighting inside Boulder city government, nor the contaminated crime scene itself. For a book that concentrates on physical facts, this latter seems a curious omission, since the surroundings in which the body awas found should reveal a lot about the crime itself. I suppose the scene was too disturbed by the father's movements and inept police procedure to provide the type of scientific cerainty Wecht prefers. Anyway, I think those surroundings deserved more discussion than they got. On the whole, Wecht's book is not the last word on this fascinating case and genuine tragedy, but neither can it be ignored.<br />I've been accused over the years of having a morbid streak because of the true crime books I read. It's probably true. Still, I'm old enough to remember when true crime was solely the subject of pulp magazines with formula writing, whose provocative covers I would sneak when my mother wasn't looking. But a curious thing has happened to crime coverage in the last thirty-five years (starting with In Cold Blood). It's become not only a respectable literary genre for those who care, but a real source of insight for readers in general. Murder is no longer just murder. A well-researched and well-written true crime book can provide rare glimpse into how lives are lived, how communities are run, and ultimately, into what we as a society value. For example, in the Ramsey case, we glimpse: the tacky world of beauty contests among little girls hardly old enough to walk, the private lives and dark psychology of a millionaire family, an ineptly run Boulder justice system failing in its primary duty, and a media that would probably pay this crime no mind were the parents of average income. In short, murder has become a type of sociology, made meaningful by people who are names, not just numbers. For writer and reader alike, a well-done crime book is like a knife cutting through a community : layers of day-to-day life are suddenly exposed that would otherwise remain hidden. Such unrehearsed revelations can provide real insight. Maybe morbid psychology got me started as a boy, but as an adult, I don't apologize to anyone for my true crime library.rder. A well-researched and well-written true crime book can provide rare glimpse into how lives are lived, how communities are run, and ultimately, into what we as a society value. For example, in the Ramsey case, we glimpse: the tacky world of beauty contests among little girls hardly old enough to walk, the private lives and dark psychology of a millionaire family, an ineptly run Boulder justice system failing in its primary duty, and a media that would probably pay this crime no mind were the parents of average income. In short, murder has become a type of sociology, made meaningful by people who are names, not just numbers. For writer and reader alike, a well-done crime book is like a knife cutting through a community : layers of day-to-day life are suddenly exposed that would otherwise remain hidden. Such unrehearsed revelations can provide real insight. Maybe morbid psychology got me started as a boy, but as an adult, I don't apologize to anyone for my true crime library.	2001-03-01
US	49102993	R2VXMVUO0BRIR	1859847765	292899299	To Kill a Nation: The Attack on Yugoslavia	Books	5	63	73	N	N	Valiant	Parenti's book is not a historical account of Yugoslavia's conquest by the West. Few dates are mentioned and only a rough chronology is followed. Instead it's a valiant attempt to set the record straight following years of drumfire propaganda aimed at toppling the Yugoslav federation and its non-western economy. By no means, is Parenti attempting a whitewash of  Milosevich, his regime, or real crimes against non-Serbs. He is combatting the vicious, one-sided campaign waged in Western media against all things Serb or Yugoslav. That NATO has finally succeeded is testament to an overwhelming military and political superiority, not to any inherent rightness in the cause, ( consider the spate of  international law violated by NATO's attack). This is the burden of the book and the author handles it well, with documentation and sources outside the usual CNN-NATO axis.<br />Two key points are worth mention. The vaunted killing fields of Kosovo never materialized despite near hysterical reports  all over Western networks. Turns out that many of these claims were based on rumor, exaggeration, or KLA mendacity. That these reports of Serb massacres were circulated as fact by an uncritical media testifies to a level of subservience to NATO war aims, which , not  incidentally,  work to strengthen European prospects of this same corporate media. Now that the conquest is complete, backtracking is quietly underway, but so what, the damage has been done, and more of the same cheerleading can be expected next time Western peace-keepers go after some rogue nation or crazed foreign devil.<br />A second point: Parenti documents terms of the Rambouillet conference, a NATO-Yugoslav diplomatic meeting that set the stage for the armed attack on Serbia. Seems this parley was sabotaged from the outset. To meet Western terms for peace, Serbia was required to permit NATO forces to occupy the country, renouncing in effect sovereignty over its own territory. In short, it was a demand Serbia couldnot afford not to refuse - just as NATO had calculated, and the air attack got underway against what was now portrayed as an unreasonable regime in Belgrade! (This is reminiscent of the diplomatic trickery surrounding talks between April Glaspie, US ambassador to Iraq, and Saddam Hussein, prior to the Gulf War, in which Hussein was told the US had no interest in the disposition of Kuwait or its royal family, thereby setting a trap that Hussein immediately fell into.)<br />What should be apparent to critical observers, is that truth, goodness, and fellow feeling mean nothing when power and wealth are at stake, regardless of the regime involved. Western transnationals see an opportunity to gobble up the world economy behind a facade of &quot;free trade&quot; and &quot;democracy&quot; and, by god, they're going to do it, whether people like it or not. That's their version of democratic thinking. If this seems an exaggeration, read the book. The truth is out there, but don't expect to hear it on the six o'clock news.	2001-02-19
US	49102993	R2YRY4R1FI11V7	089608521X	540985722	Triumph of the Market: Essays on Economics, Politics, and the Media	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Insightful	Edward Herman deserves equal ranking with other great debunkers of our day. His style is more academic than say, Chomsky or Parenti, but he achieves genuine  depth even in the short space compiled in the book. This is done by locating pivotal points in the topic and developing them with insight and fact, as exemplified in a devastating analysis of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, a chief source of neo-liberal theory.<br />Though many topical issues are discussed, most center around  globalism and the emerging world of unrestrained capital. Though all sections have merit, those adressing economics, and media are strongest. Not only are the likes of a Friedman debunked, but so are major defects in the work of such lesser lights as Peter Passell and his Limbaugh-like  anti-environmentalism. Particularly useful is the author's discussion of how the science of economics has been politicized, with the Nobel prize as a prime example. Also noteworthy: A model of development for Third World countries, i.e. basic needs/ independence model, that would prioritize domestic investment over the dependency brand required by western interests. Apologists for the global power grab like to pretend neo-liberalism is the only framework left to choose from. Seldom mentioned are those killer technologies from the sky that make sure no alternatives  challenge \\"free trade\\"  and the dominant class lurking behind it.<br />The sections on media's role in carrying out state propaganda are noteworthy for a balanced and nimble approach. Herman shrewdly points out the face-saving features that make a democratic media appear credible in the eyes of many. Yet, as he shows too, this is only a facade. For behind it a very effective system of decentralized censorship operates, the major mechanisms of which the book spells out. It should be added that this current system - and system it is - has evolved over time, without central direction or guiding blueprint, into perhaps  the mosteffective form of public manipulation in history. Despite all, a general public that is aware of vested interests, senses  this same media is not to be trusted. But the complex mechanisms which would validate such cynicism are rarely spelled out or popularly understood, so the disconnect continues.  Compounding this is a political rightwing that deflects popular doubts onto a supposed liberal bias in reporting, a  truly Orwellian twist. Herman's hope for the future lies in a burgeoning civic sector media, free from private and public sector warps.<br />All in all, this is an excellent purchase for the serious reader, particularly for those inclined by years of indoctrination into supposing that America and America Inc. are the same thing.	2001-02-13
US	49102993	R18PO4IHUELBTL	0872863174	768894033	Dirty Truths	Books	4	20	24	N	N	op-ed from the left	This is a wide-ranging book, covering topics as diverse as false consciousness, creating the poor, fascism in pinstripes, the strange death of Walter Reuther, personal reminiscence, with a defense of Oliver Stone's film \\"JFK\\" added to the mix.  All are provocatively positioned to challenge assumptions of liberal and conservative alike.  Unlike that ruling duopoly, Parenti is no friend of America's far-flung empire, disguised to the public as the \\"free world\\". His debunking commentary on  this central myth constitutes the dirty truths of the title, and uncomfortable truths they are. He even has the guts to trace the current rollback of environmental and social reforms to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the free hand this has given the big money class to maximize profits regardless of  human or ecological consequences.<br />Perhaps the book's most informative chapter is \\"Hidden Holocaust, USA\\", a compilation of negative social statistics drawn from the US Census Bureau. There the author makes a strong case against conventional claims that the US is a happy nation. The negative numbers paint a far grimmer picture, giving the lie to those Repubocrat politicians who loudly claim to love the country, at the same time they pursue profits over people.<br />Despite the author's scholarly background, this is not a scholarly work. There is very little foot-noting. Most of the chapters read like op-ed pieces; ones, however, that are never found in corporate news outlets, which is the real value of an informed work like this. For so long as the powers-that-be tolerate a fringe press, the public will have at least some access to the dirty truths filtered out of the mainstream. It is to Parenti's credit that he delivers the goods.	2001-01-17
US	49102993	R9PFEZWHA5OB3	0195023811	136299561	The Philosophy of the American Revolution	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ideas do matter	Morton White has long been a distinguished scholar and historian of American ideas, especially the philosophy of pragmatism. Here he analyzes that crucial historical intersection between abstract ideas and the practical needs of governance as found in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution -- foundational ideas such as, self-evident truth, unalienable rights, and pursuit of happiness. In illuminating fashion, he traces their historical origins to such European thinkers as Burlamaqui, Blackstone, Aristotle, and of course, John Locke. Just as importantly, he points out the elitist ambiguities that historically lurk behind these seemingly universal prescriptions. Self-evident truths - Self-evident to whom?  to everyone? God given rights - What exactly are they? Who decides? Do they include property rights or are these human inventions? Additionally, he points out the origin of our long national debate on the proper ends of government. Is government's purpose that of simply preserving rights (modern conservatism) or is it obligated to to increase popular well-being (modern liberalism)? These and other key questions are discussed within an historical framework and should be of interest to anyone wishing to know more about the intellectual origins of the world's remaining super power. Some background in philosophy is helpful but not required, and though the text is sometimes over-professionalized for the casual reader, the ideas and language remain accessible throughout. Recommended.	2001-01-09
US	49102993	R102QUCXFGAM5D	0140137327	529290358	The World Turned Upside Down: Radical Ideas During the English Revolution (Penguin History)	Books	5	107	120	N	N	It ain't Humpty-Dumpty	Hill's book taught me an ironical lesson. I've been smugly complaisant about a country I long viewed as smugly complaisant. What I knew of England's history before Hill's work, I learned from the usual unreliable sources: school textbooks, TV, PBS, \\"thin red line\\" movies, Churchill's rodomontade, etc. In short, like other Americans, my image of a distant people was molded by all the approved sources of official fact, acceptable stereotype, and general misinformation. The result - the English are a highly dutiful people who dearly love their Queen mum, are respectably unimaginative and hardworking, make good detectives, but most of all, obediently march off to war in the name of the king, the East India Company, The Empire, NATO, or any other patriotic banner that keeps the rabble in line. That is, an orderly society on which to pattern an orderly profit-yielding planet.<br />Thanks to Hill, I now count Gerrard Winstanley as one of my personal heroes. Because I now know that for one brief, shining period of English history, the spirit of that man and others like him stormed the heavens, smashed the idols, and brought forth the vision of a better society. One that can join with the best of other national inheritances. (There were even disreputable rumors that women might be capable human beings.) It's almost exciting to follow the heroic efforts of the Diggers, Ranters, Levelers, and other assorted itinerants, visionaries, and Biblical scholars, all trying to throw off the oppressive weight of God, King, and the Rising Professional Class. They failed. But England and the rest of us are surely the worse for it. This is hidden history at its best, a magnifying glass held to the beliefs and thoughts of people whose beliefs and thoughts are usually passed over in the grand sweep of events. Yet whose ideas and visions were bold enough to threaten the traditional order and challenge the course of our world.<br />Judging from the personal data, it looks like the good professor has probably passed back into the biosphere along with those whose words and deeds he did so much to resurrect. I think Hill identified with his subject, though the text is properly sober, scholarly, and certainly not uncritical. Judging from his published works, he's clearly expert in 17th century England and writes for a readership he expects to be also knowledgeable. So my advice is to not be like me, ignorant of the larger events of that period, but to prepare the landscape with a general survey. Whether you identify with his subject or not, the effort is worth it.	2001-01-08
US	49102993	R13IOSHU8EX52S	1888363827	241379899	Profit Over People: Neoliberalism & Global Order	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Whose medicine is it	Neo-liberalism means free trade and who could be against that. Freedom - free trade! No doubt about it,  that's an idea with built-in appeal.  Moreover there are all those neo-liberal  models of economic science that show a splendid matching of lowest cost production with lowest cost consumption. So what could be the matter with that. Nothing, except that such realities exist only on paper and nowhere in the world past or present, a mismatch that may cause the reader to wonder why so much is made of neo-liberalism outside the distant confines of the ivory tower. Chomsky shows why. Because behind these splendid textbook models operates the harsh supremacy of Western business interests, interests that need to convince people that such elitist gargoyles as NAFTA, GATT, WTO, and IMF really will produce the best of all possible worlds. And neo-liberal ideas do the trick.  So people of the world, take your medicine of shrinking public services, rising unemployment, and falling income levels, you'll feel better in the morning.  Never mind that the doctor himself never takes this medicine, successful doctors and their economies didn't become successful by competing on a level playing field. They protected their interests with self-centered defenses against outside competition and look how they've prospered. But don't look at what they do, just listen to what they say and  feel better in the morning. Our mathematical models show this. Except there is no reason to believe, as Chomsky shows, that morning will ever come. Meanwhile - as he also shows - casualties from around the world pile higher and higher.  But not to worry, our doctors are on the job.<br />Chomsky's book is the kind of medicine people really need.	2000-12-29
US	49102993	R3LIM1URPFBKSZ	0415906504	794352112	Radical Ecology: The Search for a Livable World (Revolutionary Thought and Radical Movements)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Handy overview	Merchant has written a handy introduction to ecological problems and issues from a radical perspective. A medium-sized book, 240 pages, the author nonetheless manages to encompass major topics of concern, such as deep ecology, social ecology, spiritual ecology, science and world views, ecofeminism, and others, all of which are presented in clear and understandable language. Of course, in-depth discussion should not be expected from a work of this size and scope. Still, each chapter includes a helpful bibliography for those interested in further research.<br />Radical ecology is explained in the introduction as \\"... the cutting edge of social ecology...(pushing) social and ecological systems toward new patterns of production, reproduction, and consciousness that will improve the quality of human life and the natural environment.\\" Clearly, Merchant does not believe that mere adjustments to the present global system can remedy centuries of growth-driven industrialization. Fresh ideas are needed as new realities emerge - fresh ways of living with nature, with each other, and with ourselves. In short, new frameworks for sustaining life on the planet have become unavoidable. The book's aim is to provide the reader with a strong sense of those conceptual frameworks currently available. Whatever your persuasion, Merchant's volume is a lively and provocative introduction to what may well be the onset of a new age.	2000-12-28
US	49102993	R1PG8W973TUXGK	156584596X	138022237	The Cultural Cold War: The CIA and the World of Arts and Letters	Books	4	54	59	N	N	An unmined field	As a reading experience,  the narrative is oddly fascinating; as a source of obscure information, the material  is richly rewarding; but as a history of the culture wars of the early cold war period, the book is mediocre at best. The narrative succeeds because the author keeps it moving nicely, providing biographical information when needed, but never as a drag. (Turns out that key shapers of early CIA were pedigeed establishment figures, lending weight to view of the Agency as an establishment - and not a populist - response to post-war world.) The intrigues lack the usual blood and guts of CIA operations, but are fascinating nonetheless, as intellectuals battle one another on both sides of the iron curtain. Saunders has done a service by providing information from research on this little known corner of the cold war. (Who among the general readership would otherwise  know of the political intrigues that surrounded the promotion of non-representational art!) As a history of the culture war, the book doesn't work nearly as well, mainly because the events unfold without much historical context to illuminate them.  For example, we learn very little of why various conferences were scheduled by the CIA's front organization, The Congress fo Cultural Freedom. Were they part of a larger propaganda offensive, perhaps in response to an aggressive Soviet move, or maybe to provide a paid holiday for penniless academics. etc. By and large, the adversarial Soviet Union, a key player in the drama,  remains a very shadowy and unanalyzed presense throughout. <br />It's always tricky in a book about the Cold War to adopt a correct distance from the material. In this case, I believe Saunders succeeds admirably given the politically charged subject matter. She's largely non-judgemental toward the leading players, most of whom are none to sympathetic. Just as importantly, she is alert to the ironies of a Congress that preaches artistic freedom, yet whose publications refuse to includematerial critical of U.S. policy or objectives. In the final analysis, as she indicates on the last page, this was not a contest between virtue and evil, but between competing empires, one of which still stands with all its powers of deception still intact. The author has done a nice job of documenting one of those deceptive operations in action.	2000-12-18
US	49102993	RPQ5P9WZ7BLT0	0896083748	105110178	Freedom Under Fire: U.S. Civil Liberties in Times of War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Unduely neglected	Linfield's work provides a handy overview of extent to which Constitutional safeguards have been compromised over the years, particularly during wartime. Beginning with the infamous Alien and Sedition Acts of the Revolutionary war period, through the  Civil War, W.W.I, and Vietnam eras, the author compiles a steady pattern of  government assault on Constitutional restrictions whenever those restrictions become politically or militarily inconvenient. Of particular note in this regard, are the McCarran - Walter Act  of the cold war era, aimed at resricting free flow of information and travel, and the notorious Palmer raids following W.W.I, aimed at curbing the rise of a socialist movement. Whether your politics are left, right or center, this historical record should be of interest. It shows pretty clearly how slender are these parchment-bound safeguards  whenever established wealth and power feels threatened.	2000-12-14
US	49102993	R1AZDHA4F992YA	0465083986	341254552	America's Forgotten Majority Why The White Working Class Still Matters	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Timely	The mere mention of a white working class causes many pundits to cringe. Liberals, because the notion of a \\"white\\" anything smacks of political incorrectness; conservatives, because mention of any kind of working class puts the fear of Marx in their soul. For decades this key demographic group has been either ignored in polite conversation or caricatured in popular culture. Either way their collective existence has remained submerged, like an iceberg. Yet, as Teixiera and Rogers point out, this grouping composes 55% of the American electorate, or more than enough votes to guarantee governance to any party that can win their allegiance.<br />This slim volume is elegantly structured, very plainly written, effectively argued, and numerically buttressed, (being neither a statistician nor a political scientist, I'm unable to critically analyze the numbers &amp; so, take them at face value).  The authors' aim is to show that this key grouping is identifiable (by income and educational levels), grossly underserved by government ( falling income levels since 1973, without compensatory programs that are perceived as favoring minorities), and without fixed partisan loyalties. ( though working class men have lately trended toward conservative appeals).This last is significant, because the authors seek to show how the loyalty of this class can be won in today's politico-economic mix by advancing the right kind of programmatic appeals, ones that importantly seek to unify along class lines rather than divide along racial lines. In the process the authors must also attack some of the myths that currently surround this grouping, such as their endemic racism or the alleged disappearance of their very existence. No lasting governance can be won by any party, the authors provocatively contend, without significant support from this forgotten majority that has been so used, abused and ignored by the elite powers that be. In sum, there is in the book abundant grist for Republicans, Democrats, and third-partyites to chew on and is well worth the price.	2000-12-11
US	49102993	R3DUEKAPHIRP8D	086571083X	746180428	Modern Crisis	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Creative but restrictive	The essays from Bookchin, a key figure in Green philosophy and propounder of Social Ecology as a rival to Deep Ecology, are a mixed lot to say the least. The essay dealing with the replacement of capitalism's culture of egoism with the participatory practices of communitarianism is worthwhile if not exactly original. The essay on  Social Ecology however is disappointing since, on close examination, it never really gets beyond a hollow rhetorical stage in laying out what should be the book's centerpiece.<br />The essay on market economy vs. moral economy is the compilation's strongest. Generally, Bookchin's skillful rhetoric manages to vividly contrast  the misanthropy of market economy with the humanism of moral economy, laying bare the ultimate cost of placing greed before need. However - and this is an important reservation - the author's framework of commercial transaction within moral economy fails to penetrate beyond the medieval emphasis on honest dealing. Replacing market gouging with honest dealing is thin gruel indeed after some four centuries of failure. The problem with Bookchin's analysis is not his enemies. It's the recourses he offers. The dehumanizing cash nexus of market economy is a problem indeed, but the author's retreat into moral admonition represents little more than wishful thinking. Reliance on honest, profitable dealings constitutes a step backward, not forward, and likely represents the absence of genuine alternatives to planned economy and the real possibilities of modern technology which Bookchin too often appears to equate with its corrosive capitalist offspring, viz. mass marketing. <br />Bookchin represents much that is both creative and restrictive among the contemporary social left.	2000-12-04
US	49102993	R3M2V8ZJV0LX38	1888363541	608640474	The Zinn Reader: Writings on Disobedience and Democracy	Books	5	33	37	N	N	A provocative package	Worth the money at any price, this is a rousing compilation of articles from one of America's leading historians of the left, whose earlier and epochal *A People's History of the United States* has served as something of a bible to those revisionist historians and activists more interested in unvarnished fact than patriotic myth. This revealing volume demonstrates that same class conscious perspective, this time ranging over topics both historical and contemporary, including insights into Plato, Machiavelli, the morality of war, the civil rights crusade, and the historically neglected Ludlow massacre. The result is an omnivorous selection to say the least, but one that includes plenty of ideational grist to disagree with even for those on the political left, who may find his pacifist leanings not just impracticable but insensitive to neo-colonial oppression. Be that as it may, few chroniclers of America's past so thoroughly demonstrate the bankruptcy of the official record as does Zinn, who unlike the abjectly house-broken Arthur Schlesinger Jr. has thankfully never found a place in the corridors of Repubocrat power which whatever else can be said has proven so materially rewarding for the opportunistic. There is solace however in the realization that were Zinn's historical honesty to replace the usual highschool pablum, even MTV teenagers might discover an identity that preceded them, and realize that there are no rebels without causes, but only victories as yet unwon. Zinn's work is a signpost along the way.	2000-12-01
US	49102993	R2A9RBO7ZGV81K	0312170467	344863475	Tender Comrades: A Backstory of the Hollywood Blacklist	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Image shattering	I grew up midwestern 1950's, in a hotbed of Mc Carthyism. Needless to mention, my ingrained image of who and what was a communist was somewhat different from the thoroughly humanized portraits that emerge in the pages of the book. Not that the interviews with individual victims of the blacklist result in glamorized or enviable cameos. They don't. Instead, we get a glimpse of what life was like for people of strong conviction who defied the fashion of their day even when it cost them dearly. The fact that most were communists was enough to demonize them in the eyes of so many of us, who, when it comes right down to it, were victims ourselves.    To those who have been assailed by America's peculiarly virulent strain of anti-communism, please read the book. It won't make a communist of you, but it will give you second thoughts about a political culture that regularly demonizes its opposition, whoever that may be. The interviews reveal not only an America that was, but in many ways an America that still is. The individual stories themselves are fascinating. The names are ones you may have seen briefly on a late night movie credit crawl. Here they come alive in their own words, names and faces that were on the screen one day, then gone the next. Not celebrities, but the kind of people who made movies memorable because they brought more than varying degrees of talent to their work, they brought social commitment.    I hope the authors soon bring us a similar volume on non-Hollywood victims of the purges, of which, I gather, there were thousands. Folks without marquee names, but with their own stories to tell about how the world was made safe for democracy.	2000-10-30
US	49102993	RWQSY5AZ5L6IY	0836213149	520785073	America: Who Stole the Dream?	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Informative but unenlightening	The book is another installment of the authors' concern for what might be called the `hollowing out of America'. Like the previous books, this one includes valuable facts and figures detailing the decline of America's working class. Much, however, is  also  repetitive, so not much new ground is broken. Nevertheless, the theme can support  retelling since repercussions from the massive shifts in wealth and manufacturing continue to be felt throughout the land. It should also be noted that this decline is ongoing despite the so-called boom economy, whose benefits - as the numbers also show - have overwhelmingly flowed to one wealth bracket,. the upper 10%<br />One fresh feature in \\"...Dream\\" is the mounting assault on skilled high-tech salaries now underway. By and large, this is being done by either contracting out software programming to increasingly skilled Third World countries like India, or by importing these same skilled workers at a fraction of American salary. The latter operates under a legal cover that  requires the company to advertise the job before turning to foreign workers as last resort. Apparently, however, compliance is left to the good faith of the company which unsurprisingly applies it insincerely. Viewed cynically, there is perhaps poetic justice in this whitecollar decline after the years of unchallenged blue-collar retreat. <br />The authors' discussion of the trade deficit reveals an important shortcoming in books such as this that focus mainly on statistics. As B&amp;S show, the numbers indicate that the trade deficit continues to grow despite all the hand-wringing and tough-talk from Washington. Even so, the authors treat this economic negative as something of a mystery, blaming it on a lack of will on the part of successive administrations, as if the only ingredient missing is political gumption. In capsule, an issue such as this highlights a major failing of  conventional expose's. On one hand, they focus strongly on the basic reality ofclass struggle, without, of course, ever using those words; on the other, their brief analysis of an issue like trade relations remains blandly conventional, repeating nothing more than unenlightening nostrums that leave the reader badly misdirected. <br />Instead, what is called for is a peek at the postwar world of capitalism and America's role since 1947 as arbiter of international capital and regulator of international markets. From this less conventional perspective, reasons for an apparent lack of government  resolve readily take shape. In order to avoid consensus damaging trade wars, America has in the last few years opened its domestic manufacturing markets to low priced foreign competition. That is, in order to prevent competitive chaos from breaking out in the rush for international markets narrowed down by an expanded world-wide capacity, the US has sacrificed major portions of its own manufacturing sector, a move that has the collateral incentives of both quelling domestic inflation and undermining the strength of organized labor. Thus the overall interests of capital are served at the expense of one of its parts, a manufacturing sector whose owners have been well-compensated with tax write-offs for their sacrifice. Meanwhile middle-class bluecollar jobs are replaced by low wage service sector employment and the 'hollowing out' continues. From this perspective, a politically explosive one, it is not gumption our administrations lack, it's honesty about real policy and whose interests get served first.<br />The main problem with books like Barlett and Steele's is not their focus on numbers; it's ultimately their herdlike conventionality that is at once both informative and unenlightening	2000-10-27
US	49102993	R1TF50RQBC0U63	0394751736	591877326	The Chomsky Reader	Books	5	44	52	N	N	Indispensible	An indispensible anthology from America's foremost foreign policy critic. James Peck, the book's editor, presents an excellent introduction, outlining core themes that unite the wide-ranging material. There is much that is familiar to long-time Chomsky readers, but much that is also less familiar, such as personal background that may help explain the MIT professor's remarkably creative and heretical career. Included among the miscellainea, is a section on his work in linguistics, a critique of B.F. Skinner's behavioral approach, and a defense of freedom and equality-- a compatibility often derided in more conservative circles. Of course, there are the more familiar researches on Latin America, Southeast Asia, and other frontier hotspots that define the American imperium. Unfortunately missing because of publishing date are researches on Washington's more recent adventures in Panama, Iraq, and Yugoslavia.  Though the tune may change,  the music remains the same.    At bottom - and what renders the MIT professor a non-person to state and media alike - is his view of Washington not as vaunted leader of the free world, but as a self-serving imperial power, neither better nor worse than its predecessors, but with greatly expanded reach and killing power. To put the point briefly: behind sterling academic and intellectual credentials, he mounts a leftish, but non-Marxist, expose' of Washington's most cherished foreign policy pieties. Just as effectively, he is careful not to put forth a central thesis, theory or organizing idea, that might  distract from the damning indictment his case studies provide of global interventionism. Shrewdly, he lets the unexpurgated record speak for itself without the distraction of abstract issues, which allows the reader to draw his or her own conclusions as to ultimate causes of this imperial behavior.    Challenging the official record is, of course, no easy task. If America behaves like a typical great power, it also filters its self-perception as a great power must.  Which is to say, that like other empire builders of the modern era, Washington must disguise its imperial actions in moralistic terms to make them palatable to publics and elites alike. Thus, self-deception in America operates, and must operate, on a grand scale, as witnessed in recent interventions in Kosovo, Kuwait, Nicaragua, and a host of other Pentagon undertakings. All are retailed to an ideologically conditioned  public as humanitarian rescues. Nonetheless, should this  prism fail, as in Vietnam, Chomsky harbors no optimistic expectations as to how the public might react. Disillusioned voters might continue pragmatic support of the imperial regime or they might not. What is interesting is that the regime acts as though it can't take the risk-- thus the rigid ideological controls that  continue to manage popular perceptions regardless of the facts. The latter of course makes up Chomsky's target of debunking attack.    The book can only be considered anti-American  by those who believe that it is the actions of Washington and Wall Street  that define our collective soul.	2000-10-23
US	49102993	R2CQIRK9DZMD5U	0853457964	118209304	Debt and Disorder: International Economic Instability and U. S. Imperial Decline	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid, but somewhat dated	Though Third World debt does not currently appear on the public radar screen, it continues to concern  Wall Street power-brokers and ad-hoc groupings of conscience, such as Jubilee 2000. Mc Ewan's book, though<BR>somewhat dated,  provides invaluable background on sources of the problem and  prospects for something more than temporary bandaid solutions.<br />The text is distinguished by a particularly lucid account of the 1945 Bretton Woods Agreement, the international conference that  institutionalized  American hegemony over global economics during the lengthy post-war period. By fixing exchange rates around the dollar as international currency, US bankers were able - as the text makes clear - to displace many domestic problems onto foreign economies. This is a crucial aspect of so-called American prosperity that few well-meaning citizens are aware of, but which has affected  overseas relations in sometimes decisive ways.<br />In its dynamics, Latin American debt appears to be particularly unpayable. Growth in south of the border economies - as McEwan shows - has been critically undermined by  excessive capital export required to service International Monetary Fund (IMF) loans. This international banker, now the target of world-wide protest, imposes payback conditions that include curtailed government expenditures and increased foreign exports, measures that drain these peasant economies of whatever growth potential is left over. Particularly disturbing is the informed observation that so long as these basic terms of trade remain unaltered, debt foregiveness, like aspirin on a cancer, can produce little more than temporary relief. People of conscience need to read this book.	2000-10-20
US	49102993	R3GUSDI6VV0C6B	1556521251	126040549	The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade	Books	4	67	74	N	N	Scholarly, but limited	By all accounts, this is the standard reference on the explosive topic of drugs and politics; the reputation is well deserved despite several shortcomings. The volume is lengthy, the style impersonal, the language carefully measured, the conclusions temperate in the extreme. All in all, qualities befitting a scholarly navigation through minefields that customarily produce heavy-handed hyperbole. Distinguishing Mc Coy's work is the inclusive historical background each topic receives as it evolves over the pages into the familiar news stories of the day. Thus, the roots of heroin addiction among GI's in Vietnam is traced back in time to Kuomintang exiles of northern Burma and to the politics of intrigue among the many power-brokers of southeast Asia.  The reader emerges from this hundred page excursion knowing a great deal more about the Golden Triangle than he perhaps wanted, but nonetheless is thoroughly informed about that murky but crucial region.<br />Oddly missing from the book is a similar historical account of Turkey's role as a major supplier of First World markets. Though mentioned sporadically, Turkey remains largely outside the text's focus, despite its traditional connection to Mediterranean traffickers. Also eclipsed is Mc Coy's all-too-brief discussion of Latin America's part in the developing world of drug trade, about which so much new material has surfaced since the book's 1991 publishing date. Unfortunately, readers looking for material on these critical areas should look elsewhere.<br />No book on the drug trade is complete without a discussion of the role the CIA has played in boosting the industry's world-wide network. Here Mc Coy's cautious approach is paticularly damning in its findings. In a brief but telling conclusion, CIA policy is indicted for protecting drug lords in the name of national security, and for directly contradicting Drug Enforcement Agency's efforts to interdict major traffickers. Worse, he sees a growing tolerance for narcotics as an informal weapon of covert warfare whose trajectory now extends beyond Cold War confines. Considering the evidence amassed of at least indirect CIA complicity in a variety of hot spots, such conclusions are hardly overblown. However, his hope for both a reformed CIA and domestic War on Drugs are, it would seem, tenuous at best, given the global size of wealth and power that is at stake. As his book has shown, Cold War or no, the political economy of illegal narcotics, with its often useful underworld connections and expanded instruments of repression, is simply too powerful a tool for empire builders of any stripe to surrender.	2000-10-12
US	49102993	R9A5GXOL8QHRQ	0679745408	117088007	Technopoly: The Surrender of Culture to Technology	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Disappointing	The book is an uncompelling mixture of techno-skepticism, banality, conservatism, and  remediation. In short, an eclectic stew with a catchy title. Postman's main thesis is that America has become a technopoly, which means that culture has lost its moral authority to technology. Technology has become the solution to whatever questions are asked, ushering in the reign of experts. Whatever else, there's a lot to agree with here.<br />But to understand where we are, we have to understand where we've been. Postman presents a three-stage view of history whose main thrust is that  traditional religious and metaphysical beliefs have been steadily replaced by scientific methods and utilitarian values, while tradition is viewed as a source of error and a shackle on knowledge. This historical  march culminates in the present stage of technopoly, which is defined as a totalitarian technocracy that has swept  tradition with its non-technological values and meta-narratives into history's ash can. In short, culture, the last hold-out, has finally surrendered to the conquering armies of technology, making the sweep portentiously complete. (In Postman's taxonomy, computers extend the frontiers of technopoly but do not define it.)<br />All in all, his outline of history's main stages is interesting in detail if not exactly original. However, like others of a Weberian bent, Postman portrays technology as something of an independent force, creating its own logic and standards, taking on a life of its own. Nevertheless, such high-flying abstractions fail to link up with people, and fail to ask the crucial societal question of who owns and directs the technology of our age or any age; that is, in whose interest does nuclear energy, computerization, or surveillance equipment now operate. A taxonomy like Postman's works to obscure this key question and others like it. The problem with the reign of experts may lie not with technology itself, but with those who have the power to direct and set the goals of the research and development. We should be mindful that behind the technology of any age, there are always people and people with definite interests. This is an important sociological approach the book leaves critically unadressed.<br />Postman correctly sees the problem that lies in a computerized information glut versus a lack of meaningful ordering principles, a disconnect that leaves us with mounting piles of meaningless information. His solution however is anemic. He recommends an eclectic return to the meta-narratives of the past, an apparent attempt to re-establish a core of non-technological values within the utilitarian regime of technopoly. Yet how meta-narratives like the Bible or Communist Manifesto can re-establish credibility in a skeptical age that attacks even the authority of science is unclear to say the least. There is a problem of value-grounding in postmodern culture, but one that is not answered by a literary return to the past, no matter how great the appeal. In this key regard the book clearly flounders, and given Postman's prior accomplishments, the book adds up to a trendy disappointment.set the goals of the research and development. We should be mindful that behind the technology of any age, there are always people and people with definite interests. This is an important sociological approach the book leaves critically unadressed. <br />Postman correctly sees the problem that lies in a computerized information glut versus a lack of meaningful ordering principles, a disconnect that leaves us with mounting piles of meaningless information. His solution however is anemic. He recommends an eclectic return to the meta-narratives of the past, an apparent attempt to re-establish a core of non-technological values within the utilitarian regime of technopoly. Yet how meta-narratives like the Bible or Communist Manifesto can re-establish credibility in a skeptical age that attacks even the authority of science is unclear to say the least. There is a problem of value-grounding in postmodern culture, but one that is not answered by a literary return to the past, no matter how great the appeal. In this key regard the book clearly flounders, and given Postman's prior accomplishments, the book adds up to a trendy disappointment.	2000-10-06
US	49102993	R1H1LZQ9C4P99X	0312203438	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Solid and stolid	Sometimes I get the feeling that our so-called postindustrial society is trying to invent a new kind of person, one without soul, inner life or creative center. A special, new kind of creature, that mirrors consumer culture in being nothing more than a one-dimensional reflection. Klein's book reinforces that suspicion. Not that she tries to feed low-level paranoia like mine. Her work is solidly sensible, humane, and in the best tradition of heart-felt expose'. In this book, she's not `into' evolutionary reversals, science fiction psychology or the mind of the consumer. Instead she exposes over and over to a fault, the merciless political economy of an industry based on sweat shops, enterprise zones, and celebrity prostitution. In short, it's the dirty truth behind the divine logo.<br />I don't know why the book didn't leave me as riled-up as I think it should.  Maybe I wanted her to ask: what's wrong with these people who worship logos, who build their lives around the graven images of capitalism, what is missing that they so confuse appearance with reality. Then I think of myself. My own perceptions and preferences and I know I've been colonized too. These insidious agencies of commercialism work their way into every facet of life, like it or not. This is a mindsnatching world we're creating and Klein is helping to hold up a mirror. Reality isn't just another `sign' in an endless parade of postmodern logos. It's real and for those who can't find it, reality is there in the sweatshops of Cavite, in the desperation of union organizers, in the plight of people trying to buy an identity for the price of a corporate symbol. Ours is not a promising new world, it's a cruel disconnected world that no longer tells the difference between heart-break and market-share. The temperature of our internal thermometer is nearing comatose. Like the ad-busters of Klein's book, let's fight back.	2000-10-05
US	49102993	RY8YJUMMWF02X	0896084442	685142298	Year 501: The Conquest Continues	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Compelling	Another entry in the author's voluminous expose' of what amounts to US imperialism, even if that inflammatory word is never used. Chomsky's main focus is on Haiti, though the lens wanders as usual. Haiti offers an especially valuable case study in US-hemispheric relations, since it was the first non-white republic in the western hemisphere, having freed itself from French dominion during the revolution in France. At best, Haiti's is a checkered history, though - as Chomsky shows - these last years of Papa Doc Duvalier's reign of terror and the Aristide reaction have been particularly revealing. How the US has manuevered to keep that impoverished country economically dependent is yet one more dismal chapter in the history of exploitation. The culprits include the usual suspects: hypocritical politicians, greedy business interests, compliant media, and brutal local repression. Once again, Chomsky confronts the official record with the public record and the results are devastating.<br />I recall once seeing that all-purpose talking head Jeff Greenfield confronted by the unofficial media silencing of America's foremost foreign-policy critic. For a moment he looked puzzled as though only the bad old Soviets made non-persons of eminent critics. Then he responded something about Chomsky sounding like he lives on the planet Venus. That remark reveals a lot about how incestuous mainstream journalism has become and how undigestible the unvarnished facts, such as *the Year 501*, are to their sanitized frame of reference. Apparatchiks in the worst sense, they allow themselves no challenge to the Washinton party line. Truth be told, it is their feet that are firmly planted on the science-fiction soil of a benign and beneficent America, while the MIT professor remains, as ever, unflinchingly earth-bound whatever the cost.	2000-10-02
US	49102993	R24KV1B2C3KPTC	0781248566	104821114	Manifest Destiny: A Study of Nationalist Expansionism in American History (History - United States Series)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A classic	In this classic work, the author traces American expansionism back to the Louisiana Purchase of 1804. The notion of Manifest Destiny itself dates from the 1840's and America's designs on Mexico and its territories. Essentially, Manifest Destiny expresses a doctrine of territorial expansion that is predetermined by some fateful American attribute of one kind or another. Weinberg's book is particularly valuable for both its historical account and its analytic understanding of America's missionary zeal.<br />Early on, expansionists saw the Hand of God behind America's civilizing mission. Other rationales emerged over the decades, including extension of political liberties to benighted peoples and/or making use of unused land. In Weinberg's view, the Founding Fathers tended to be anti-expansionist, believing that the natural lights of liberty would transmit infectiously, producing liberation movements in neighboring lands. Later on, such optimism receded, leaving a surrounding vacuum for the young Republic to fill which it often did with a vengeance.<br />As Weinberg points out, anti-expansionist sentiments have historically competed with their opposite, making unabashed expansion difficult to implement as national policy. Moreover, the desirability of expansion beyond culturally similar lands into foreign tongues and alien ways, such as Mexico's, has caused historical rifts within the expansionist camp, which by no means speaks with a single voice. <br />Writing in the 1920's and under the influence of the anti-expansionist President Wilson, Weinberg appears to believe expansionist designs along with Manifest Destiny have passed from the American scene. Presumably he would have found a home in the similarly deluded Kennedy administration. Though Weinberg records several glimpses of financial imperialism or \\"neo-colonialism\\", the author appears to equate overseas expansion with the presence of occupying military forces - a fatal mistake for assessing 20th century expansionist modes. Despite serious ideological shortcomings, the book remains both factual and informative of the early stages of American expansion, and well worth the read.	2000-10-02
US	49102993	RK1SEV1MFD8WU	0380712520	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very good of its kind	This is a popular and very readable history of the US, ditinguished by a high level of dissident consciousness. For example, Davis is very careful to point out the human cost to the Indian tribes of the European influx. Mostly the book progresses forward in time on the same well-rounded basis. It makes a good introductory companion to Howard Zinn's epochal volume,*A People's History of the United States*. Recommended for those who like their history in small, sharp doses.	2000-09-25
US	49102993	R2OORDG0JYSM9T	0853458251	784640729	Columbus: His Enterprise: Exploding the Myth	Books	5	25	29	N	N	The unsanitized version	This is a book that attempts to set  the record straight on Columbus the man  and the chain of events set off by his voyage of discovery. Koning does not delight in debunking the myth, nor does he gloat in the exose'; rather the tone is one of moral despair over the actual facts. Essentially the Christian Spaniards slaughtered and enslaved as they plundered the New World. Convinced he had found the fabled way to Cathay ahead of the rival Portuguese, Columbus appears every bit the avaricious social climber of his era. Skilled and daring, he was also venal and petty. Koning's portrait is not a pretty one, but then we've had enough of those.<br />Koning takes the revered Samuel Eliot Morrison to task for his sanitized portrait of the Great Explorer. Most reprehensive, in Koning's view, is Morrison's utter disregard for the death and destruction left in Columbus's wake and to which he was a party. Seemingly, Morrison's brand of biographical myopia represents a particularly deadly brand of Western ideology at work, one that cleans up the official record on behalf of the powers that be.<br />Perhaps most praiseworthy in Koning's tratment are the succinct moral parallels he draws between the civilizing forces of Spain in the New World and their 20th century American counterparts in Vietnam, where additional tens of thousands were slaughtered resisting Western conquest. A book like this exposes unmistakably the self-serving mythology that surrounds so much of our official history. Such versions are not misleading by accident, instead they work to a purpose and there seems no better word for describing that purpose than ideological. They are distortions that preserve current institutions of power; namely, those political and economic arrangements that also happen to be products of Columbus's bloody wake. It's interesting to speculate the direction our polity would take were Koning's book, rather than the traditional sanitized versions, required reading in the nation's high schools. Be that as it may, don't expect to see Koning in a Columbus Day parade any time soon.	2000-09-25
US	49102993	RU121XGYBQMK1	1888363649	209408284	Censored 1998: The News That Didn't Make the News	Books	5	4	4	N	N	lifting the lid	A highly useful book that includes in its contents:  unreported or  underreported stories from the mainstream media; a guide to names,  addresses and websites of the alternative press; essays and commentaries  discussing aspects of the media; and a nifty little chart that traces  interlocking corporate rtelationships between the media combines and their  fat cat corporate pardners.<br />The stories themselves vary widely as could  be expected. There is however, as Michael Parenti points out, a thread  connecting the diversity. That common thread reveals a corporate drive to  dominate the civic culture and suppress those stories that might otherwise  hinder big money domination. Question - Does this subtext reflect the  book's editorial bias as one out to get corporate capitalism, or does it  reflect the power of these combines to get their media way on a national  scale. You decide. The following are a brief sample of the suppressed  stories of 1998.<br />Big outfits such as Weyerhauser, Coors, et. al., are  combining to pressure individual states into passing laws preventing public  disclosure or civil suits following upon violation of environmental laws.  It works like this. The firm reports its violation to the state and in  return receives immunity from prosecution and a sealing of official records  from public view. No harm, no foul, and no Erin  Brockoviches.<br />White-collar crime is hardly ever prosecuted by the Justice  Dep't - the statistics are in. Of 52,000 criminal indictments in 1996, only  250 involved violations of OSHA laws protecting environment and worker  health and safety. This in the face of about 60,000 estimated worker deaths  yearly from exposure to toxins. And still business lobbies like NAM and US  Chamber of Commerce discourage even this pitiful percentage.<br />As to that  earlier question, I know how I would respond.	2000-09-18
US	49102993	R1FX0VYCGNMQUN	0836270010	64155451	America: What Went Wrong?	Books	5	56	63	N	N	Still highly relevant	This is a book that really helps ordinary Americans understand what is  happening to the economy. Though somewhat dated by being written before our  so-called period of prosperity, the trends emphasized in the book not only  continue,  but  in some instances have accelerated. In that important  sense, B's &amp; S's work remains as topical today as it was yesterday.  It's also an excellent companion  to Kevin Phillip's more recent *Politics  of the Rich and Poor*, though the former aims at a more popular audience.  Many of the statistical comparisons of Phillip's book were originated here:   the junk bond plunder of healthy companies, the massive export of  high-wage jobs, the decline of pension funds and health care, et.al. And a  sorry, sorry tale it is. <br />Several pressing topics not included in  Phillip's book are discussed here. \\"Net operating loss\\" is perhaps the most  egregious method of transferring wealth upward. This highly biased tax  allowance allows struggling companies to write off last year's net  operating loss on this year's tax bill, forcing taxpayers to pay for  operating losses incurred by private sector firms. Similarly, Chapter 11  bankruptcies allow indigent firms to continue operating with present  management but immune from creditors. The net effect of both measures is to  lessen risk and encourage reckless speculation, thereby undermining  long-term market health. Included in the book are other degenerate measures  deriving largely from the 1980's: Deduction of interest from corporate  borrowing, Tax-free government bonds (deriving from early 1900's), Untaxed  stock transactions, et.al. The overall result is to transfer the tax burden  from wealthy categories to middle-cass brackets. For more far-sighted  conservatives, this amounts to an alarming social and political  development.<br />Though much the same ground has now been trod in other  books, the story can stand multiple retellings, since middle-class decline  is perhaps the most important  domestic trend of our time. What  distinguishes this book's original telling are the vivid personal profiles  amidst the welter of relevant statistics. These cameos have the crucial  effect of reminding the reader that behind the abstractions are real people  whose lives are shaped by tax legislation, wealth transfers, and job  export. The result is a little like Studs Turkel meets the tax  collector.<br />Recommended for those interested in the social contours of the  future.	2000-09-08
US	49102993	R7H4PPUEMEDEV	1567510922	708943845	Class Warfare: Interviews with David Barsamian	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Play it again, Sam	Barsamian has apparently figured out a way to benefit both himself and  Chomsky by publishing interviews with the ever wide-ranging scourge of  American foreign policy. For  long-time readers, not much new should be  expected from a casual book like this; nor is there. If any sub-theme  surfaces, it is Chomsky's deepening opposition to corporate America. The  book is aptly titled. In fact it would be difficult to find denunciations  of big business more unequivocal or forceful anywhere, even in Marxist  literature.<br />There is one interesting development that emerges in *Class  Warfare*. Chomsky seems to be appreciating at last that some kind of woolly  anarchistic sentiments are  powerless against the concentrated power of  international capital. In this book, he appears to take a liberal turn,  looking to big government as a necessary counterweight. At the same time,  however, he acknowledges that politicians and their cronies are under heavy  corporate sway. Is there logical room for manuever here? Perhaps, that is,  if government can be wrested away from the death grip of big business,i.e.  the Ralph Nader solution. If I'm correct in the framing, the MIT professor  is at a pivotal point in his political evolution. On one hand, he's all too  aware of the magnitude of  the international problem, on the other, he's  reluctant to endorse any kind of authoritarian response that would clash  with his deep regard for non-authoritarian structures. To perhaps  oversimplify, which then does he value more: relief for the economically  oppressed or decentralized decision procedures. As the struggle for global  supremacy develops, the two may not  be at all compatible.  I think he has  shown in his many books what US-corporate foreign policy has wrought. Now  is a good time for this most humane of thinkers to tackle the pressing  analytical questions of our time.<br />Any work that includes Noam Chomsky's  research is worth buying. No other series so unflinchingly opens the eyes  to the crushing realities of America's actions abroad.	2000-09-08
US	49102993	R1OGLK5SS5XKVC	0671871579	213854898	America: Who Really Pays the Taxes?	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Researched and revealing	This is a compelling book that minces few words. The authors supply  diverse statistics showing that the wealthy really do escape a fair share  of taxes and Congress happily colludes in the scheme. The swindle's scope  is seen as a back-handed tribute to the skill of those hired professionals  - politicians and talking heads - who redirect taxpayer anger onto nickel  and dime welfare cheats instead of the real recipients of government  largesse. As the book shows, the tax-paying desires of the wealthy do get  served.<br />The big picture lies in the sharp turnaround since 1950 in who  pays the taxes. In that year the tax system was gearedf toward broadening  membership in the middle-class,     America's cushioning class. Since then,  the shift towards taxing this sector out of existence has been little less  than startling. Among the categories reflecting  this turnaround:   tax-exemption rates, Social Security levies, total tax-dollar comparisons,  and state and local shifts in levies. A thumbnail sketch of taxation's  history in the US helps the reader understand the class battle going on  beneath the numbers.<br />The final chapter closes with recommendations for  reforms. Most are quite sensible given the gross inequities that currently  exist. For example:  terminate capital gains preferences and tax this  category as income, stop discriminating certain preferential categories of  income from others, terminate tax-exempt securities, et. al. That corporate  income tax should be increased is usually rebutted by claims that the  increase will be passed along to the consumer. If so, then why - the  authors point out - do corporations so stoutly resist this legislation,  preferring instead an excise tax that would most surely be passed along.  Good point.<br />The English statesman Disraeli once remarked, \\"Gentleman,  there are three kinds of lies - lies, damned lies, and statistics.\\" Perhaps  so. Yet anyone challenging B&amp;S's figures or our ruinous departure from  progressive taxation will have to pass through this book first.	2000-09-06
US	49102993	RC85SCT8KVASS	0679772650	947627531	Once Upon a Distant War: David Halberstam, Neil Sheehan, Peter Arnett--Young War Correspondents and Their  Early Vietnam Battles	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A shadowy period pried open	Behind Vietnam's shadowy fire-fights of 1961-1963 another kind of combat  was taking place, one just as important to the war's outcome. It was a war  of words and Prochnau's narrative follows this journalistic battle between  a battery of triuth-seeking reporters (Halberstam, NY Times; Sheehan, UPI;  Browne, API) and party-line higherups eager to conceal failures in the  war's progress. All in all, it's a gripping account.<br />Prochnau avoids  comparing press attitudes from earlier wars to Vietnam, yet a comparison is  very revealing. In Korea, cover-ups and propaganda pitches went largely  unchallenged for two reasons. Most correspondants reporting from there had  earlier reported from WWII, a popular patriotic war that had enlisted  everyone on the same team. That team spirit carried over to Korea even when  the clarities of the fight against Nazi-ism did not. However, by the early  60's, a new generation of correspondants - a young man's job according to  Prochnau - had taken over. Steeped neither in team spirit nor in a  tradition of placing press objectives below military ones, they were a new  breed of journalists unimpressed with the briefings of big-brass officers.  Contributing also to the rise of independent reportage was the scale of  official deception, which expanded exponentially from Korea to Vietnam. The  inflated body counts, Saigon's fishbowl of corruption, and a host of other  calamities, all combined to override official deception much more  effectively than anything from the early 1950's.<br />Prochnau makes clear  that these early reporters - including the trend-setting Homer Bigert - had  no basic quarrel with US objectives in Vietnam. Like most observers, they  believed intervention was necessary to preserve democracy against the  communist menace. Rather, the disagreement was the perennial one over  methods and not goals. Thus despite repeated appeals to `join the team',  Halberstam and company realized early on that the well-armed Diem regime  lacked the political wherewithal to contain the Viet Cong. And though their  reporting angered higherups, they believed some kind of iconoclasm was  needed to bring about a more effective anti-communist effort. In that  spirit, they exposed sham victories when ARVN troops avoided battle but  claimed victory, and they wrote about those American advisors dying in  battle who weren't even officially there.<br />The fact that government  officials abetted these frauds testifies to the level of arrogance and  self-deception driving Kennedy's policy at the time, an aspect of press  coverage that Prochnau makes clear. The bottom line, however, is that at no  time did these rebellious reporters question the fundamental rightness of  America's interventionist role. Their faith remained uncritically liberal  despite all the sound, fury, and second-guessing from both sides of the  information battle. So in some kind of ironical fashion, a larger team  spirit triumphed after all.<br />Anyone interested in the early years of the  Vietnam civil war should find this account vivid and revealing.	2000-09-06
US	49102993	R3174FDOSWI5VI	0374523495	58480373	Deterring Democracy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Telling it like it is	Written during the transition years of the late 80's and early 90's, the book's essays have a common theme -- despite the end of the cold war, the US continues to undermine genuine democracy even in the absence of a soviet totalitarian threat. Viewed up close, this theme implies a lot about the nature of our foreign policy, though Chomsky as usual never assembles the implications into a central idea (he doesn't like to generalize). Nonetheless, patterns of imperial rule do emerge from Chomsky's material, and take the form, in my view, of identifiable categories. First among the categories are those impoverished countries that cooperate with the west and therefore qualify for IMF or World Bank loans, an indebtedness that also locks in longer term dependency and which, despite appearances, can prove as devastating over time as the other categories. Second are those more recalcitrant polities, who because of their waverings subject themselves either to economic disinvestment, or in more radical instances, to agencies of subversion (CIA black ops, as in Iran 1953 or Indonesia 1965). Finally, there are the truly defiant regimes who undergo either indirect military intervention in form of proxy armies (Nicaragua), or in the most extreme cases, direct US intervention (Vietnam). Not exactly your highschool history text, then again, disguised or not, such measures have proven a very effective way to run an empire, and probably explain why the internationally renowned Chomsky never gets on a TV-talk show.<br />The essays themselves are a mixed lot, focusing mainly on Central America where US imperial rule has been evident for decades.Still and all, some other points are worth noting. Chomsky happily exposes the underlying vacuity of that pious fraud Vaclav Havel, the Czech politician-playwrite who routinely ignores bloody Latin America and southeast Asia, yet heaps uncritical praise on decades of Pentagon-Washington foreign policy, while liberal politicians fawn and genuflectin his presence. A debunking of this sanctimonious hypocrite is long overdue.<br />Perhaps here more than elsewhere, Chomsky points out the disciplined myopia of Establishment intellectuals, like Walter Lippmann---those talking heads that can generally be counted on to reinforce the main myths of American foreign policy. A renowned pundit of his day, Lippmann advised that popular opinion must not be left to itself, but should be led by recognized experts such as himself. In short, the masses should not act on their own, but should instead wait and follow the lead of those who know best, which ironically sounds almost like Bolshevist thinking. Still it's a sure-fire excuse for intervention when the vote doesn't go your way, and probably accounts for why Lippmann was welcomed into the halls of power.<br />The section covering the Gulf War is somewhat disappointing. More attention should have been given to the devious diplomacy that preceded the war itself, especially exchanges between Ambassador Glaspie and Iraq's Hussein. The overall picture shows how intent US policy was on prosecuting the war, even after Hussein had capitulated to Coalition demands. Chomsky of course is correct in likening the hostilities to a massacre instead of an actual war. Still the blood-letting could have been avoided had Bush been willing to call off his war machine. What Chomsky makes of the US-led aggression against Yugoslavia should be interesting, since much of the same stage-setting devious diplomacy used against Iraq, has again been employed, this time in white-skinned Europe. But alas, heavy is the head that wears the global crown, even as Chomsky proves once again to be the crown's most vigorous and prestigious debunker.	2000-09-01
US	49102993	RG2VUGQAVX9US	0691077711	901391706	Galbraith, Harrington, Heilbroner: Economics and Dissent in an Age of Optimism (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An economic view of the non-Marxist left	Because Galbraith, Harrington, and Heilbroner each stress a strong  government role in the economy, they appear here in the same book. Together  they represent the outer-left limits of acceptable influence on Washington  policy makers. In today's neo-liberal atmosphere, their thinking may seem  dated, yet the issues and prescriptions they raise are still  topical.<br />Okroi's treatment  is  non-technical with no graphs etc. to  bewilder the non-professional. Though some familiarity with standard  terminology is assumed,  he makes his points in a style that kept me  interested.  For Galbraith,  the corporation is the  basic institution of  the modern economy. Therefore anyone with a case against corporate America  should be interested in his reasoning.  Moreover, Galbraith's  innovative  use of Keynes is made both understandable and informative. Harrington's  democratic socialism raises that whole provocative topic which functions as  a kind of leitmotiv throughout the remainder of the book. Heilbroner,  something of a seer and the most unusual of the three, sees little hope for  a capitalism being displaced by economic planning. It's interesting to  compare his dour direction with today's heady neo-liberal trend.<br />In the  last chapter, the book's most topical issue is raised: the disconnect  between politics and economics. Okroi maintains  America's economic reality  is that of an oligopoly, while the discourse remains that of free market  concepts. He believes this  rupture between `what is' and `what we see',  has produced something of a crisis in politics. On one hand, our parties  embrace the myths of liberalism while having to confront the realities of  corporatism, on the other.  The net result is a decline of politics, a  development very much a fact to those observing  the decline of our two  major parties.  Here Okroi proves a keen analyst in his own right. All in  all, this is a good book for the non-professional with an interest in  leftish politicaleconomy.	2000-08-29
US	49102993	R13IBQ1Q2ICU92	0671675567	64132475	Secrets of the Temple: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Opens a closed door	Greider's book has a rare overriding virtue. It makes makes the unknown  known. Few institutions are more remote and mysterious to the average  citizen than the Federal Reserve Board. Yet few forces wield more year to  year influence over our lives than this banking fraternity. The book is  aptly titled.  In 700  sometimes overlong pages, Greider traces the inner  workings and history of the Board in terms that the average intelligent  reader can comprehend. We see how decisions are weighted in favor of the  have's over the have-not's. We see how interest rates can be manipulated to  bring about certain  results, such as damping down wages in the name of  anti-inflation.  We  see how an unelected elite can exercise more direction  over the nation's future than an elected president, as happened during the  Carter administration.  Is it desirable  to invest  such powers in a single  board. Maybe.  But first a goodly portion of the voting publicshould at  least  know what the issue is. Greider's book goes a long way in explaining  the nature of the problem.  I expect Greider is none to popular among  economics professors for being a popularizer. But it's high time others  like Greider started working that critical connecting ground between  academic abstractions  on one hand, and ordinary experience on the other.  If you're reading this, you need to pick up the book.	2000-08-27
US	49102993	R37KQCX3V11OIG	0060929499	356393047	There's Nothing in the Middle of the Road but Yellow Stripes and Dead Armadillos: A Work of Political Subversion	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fast, funny, nearly new	There's nothing like dead-on muck-raking told with elegance, wit and  style. Jim Hightower has all of these in abundance.  None of his  commentaries should be missed. Still, to those looking for fresh  iconoclasm, there is little new soil here. He works much the same ground as  Bartlett and Steele, but with far fewer statistics and far more humor. The  rich get richer, the poor poorer, and the middle-class barely hangs on even  as everybody punches a time-clock. Do the Democrats spell relief for the  oppressed masses. Yes, says the author, but only if we get off our tails  and scratch the corporate logo off the name.  Hightower's villians are  corporate America ( so unpopular with most everyone, they'll have to find a  new dodge), not the capitalist class. A true populist, he sees nothing  wrong with small business since it doesn't occupy the top three floors of  fortress high-rise. With expert strokes he stokes the prairiefire  he hopes  will bring them down. On second thought, maybe you can't tell the same  important story too many times. Hightower's version is vintage Americana.	2000-08-26
US	49102993	RK1DFAZXWHV86	0807047058	169641957	For The Common Good: Redirecting the Economy toward Community, the Environment, and a Sustainable Future	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Humane and incisive	Because of the large number of issues and sometimes conflicting solutions proposed, this is a difficult book to classify. Key, however, is the  authors' profound refusal to subordinate the common good of the community  to the god of the free market. This does not mean the elimination of  markets where they have proven effective and non-destructive. It does mean  keeping their operation within strict limits, so that people can regain a  sense of community and a sustainable environment. Much of the book is taken  up with showing the limits of market theory and practice, and in that sense  should be studied by all with an interest in America's secular religion.  Proposed solutions are decidedly non-ideological and largely eclectic. Both  the left and the right should find points of agreement. All in all, this is  an invaluable guide to many of the planet's most pressing problems and  should be required reading for college undergraduates.	2000-08-24
US	49102993	R16S5AUSOMOM8M	006097396X	279204427	The Politics of Rich and Poor: Wealth and the American Electorate in the Reagan Aftermath	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Indispensible guide to the 1980's and beyond	Phillips has documented in some detail the massive income shift of the  Reagan years. In almost all categories the upper 10% of American families  soared, while the remaining 90% either stagnated, or at the lower end,  actually declined. The author's exhaustive charts demonstrate statistically  what popular opinion could only entertain: the rich got richer and the poor  got poorer. An interesting question to pose is why a Republican  strategist  like Phillips would document this adverse result in such unsparing fashion.  Perhaps like some far-seeing conservatives he views a growing income gap as  destabilizing to the country, and hopes to bring forth moderating  influences.<br />In any event, the book stands as an excellent reference for  understanding the impact of those years. That Phillips does not delve  beyond surface movements for deeper explanation is not an  objection to the  work as a whole. For what he succeeds in doing with considerable authority  and as &quot;one of their own\\", is to revive class bias as the focal point  of American politics. Being a conservative, he is not about the business of  endorsing class-struggle as a premise of human history or American  politics. Nevertheless, his linking of the Reagan era to previous eras of  capitalist overreach helps to revive the long submerged story of  class-struggle in America. This is an indispensible book for understanding  the 1980's and years beyond.	2000-08-24
US	49102993	R1EEEQRBDJMNW2	0804717575	514788098	Jean Baudrillard: From Marxism to Postmodernism and Beyond (Key Contemporary Thinkers)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Not for the unprepared	This is a dense book, not for casual reading. Presumably the reader  already knows something about Baudrillard or wants to learn about him and  the general point of view he represents, viz. post-structuralism. The book  doesn't function well as an introduction to either Baudrillard or  post-structuralism.  Considerable background in these subjects is assumed  by the author who makes few concessions to the unintiated. To readers more  familiar with French social theory, Kellner's commentary is rewarding,  particularly the final summing-up chapter, which contextualizes  persuasively the arc of Baudrillard's intellectual career. Marxism enters  as the stubborn persistense of a socio- material realm increasingly ignored  in that arc and to its detriment. On balance, I believe Kellner treats the  sometimes maddening hyperbole in a fair-minded manner, though a more  concrete exposition of the promising ideas surrounding `sign exchange'  would better illustrate Baudrillard's early appeal which does seem to  suffer at book's end. This is not a book for the unprepared.	2000-08-23
US	49102993	R2SXSLY9SYOO0J	0813306531	867147425	Marxism And The Moral Point Of View: Morality, Ideology, And Historical Materialism	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Provocative	Nielsen takes a controversial position in this book. He argues that Marxism is not incompatible with making moral judgements. Received opinion  over the years has been that the two are incompatible. This latter view  stems from a straightforward reading of the base-superstructure model that  constitutes a basic lens to a Marxian understanding of history. Put simply,  the model holds that society's base lies in a particular mode of material  production that at any moment in human history defines the basic nature of  that period; its superstructure comprises the institutions of culture that  must perforce support the base, and must therefore  be determined in their  content by the base. In class dominated societies which make up most of  human history, the superstructure must function as a way of disguising  class rule, that is, as a way of distorting reality. As such these  institutions must operate in a very partisan manner - they do not serve all  persons in a disinterested manner. Beccause morality adjusts relations  among people, it belongs in the superstructure. But this means that  regardless of pretentions to being above history or partisan interest,  morality actually functions as an instrument used by some to dominate  others. When new classes come to dominate new modes of production, moral  codes must change to support them. Thus, it would appear, that morality in  its usual universalist sense is incompatible with a view that renders it  relative to historical periods.<br />Nielsen argues that contrary to  appearance space does exist in this general model for a qualified sense of  universal values. For example,\\"Suffering is bad,\\" \\"Freedom is good,\\" et.  al., have a validity beyond that of any particular historical period.  Making that case amounts to the book's project. The issue is an important  one since Marxist parties over the years have generally avoided an  indictment of capitalism on moral grounds, rendering Nielsen's position an  unorthodox one. Whatever its status, it's a journey well worth taking. A  self-descibed `ordinary-language Marxist', the style and technique are easy  to follow; and though I, for one, disagree with his conclusions, the points  are well worth pondering.	2000-08-21
US	49102993	R1K5NM3H2WMSFD	0192851446	440424417	Marxism and Law (Marxist Introductions)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Highly recommended to serious readers	Few books in circulation deal specifically with Marxism and law, probably  because the former assigns the latter a distinctly subordinate role among  society's real determinants. In Marxian thinking, law has neither autonomy  in practice - being an extention of class interest - nor autonomy in theory  - being hopelessly intertwined with nonlegal structures. Bourgeois  theorists, on the other hand, treat law as possessing the necessary degree  of autonomy that their studies require. Collins hopes to fill the current  gap in scholarship created by Marxism' general neglect of legal theory, and  succeeds admirably. <br />Current works are combined with classical ones in  highly stimulating fashion that both inform the reader and deepen  understanding.  Anyone who believes that the `rule of law` is about  ensuring that our societal game is played fairly, should read this book.  Those of a more skeptical persuasion will also benefit from the skillful  treatment Collins, an Oxford Don,  brings to the subject. Highly  recommended to serious readers.	2000-08-21
US	49102993	RI189SU35DDGF	0691014841	411275676	Against Deconstruction	Books	4	16	20	N	N	On-target rejoinder	Ellis's lengthiest chapter, concerning language, stokes my suspicions about Derrida. In that chapter, Ellis accuses Derrida of a fallacy, viz.  the false dilemma, by implying that meaning in language can have but two  possible explanations. Words either take their meaning from non-verbal  essences or, lacking those grounds, are held in place syntactically, by  relation to other words. Since the former has been discredited, only the  latter in the form of word-play remains. And voila! - post-modernism comes  into view.  This is the dilemma fallacy in its purist form since excluded  from the equation are all those intermediate positions, including  Saussure's, that make use of concepts or categoreal distinctions. True,  some varieties of this third approach have been discredited. But as Ellis's  useful example of ambient temperatures shows, a variety of alternative  concepts does not imply that categoreal distinctions are not based on  non-verbal grounds. Derrida appears to have passed over such alternatives  in uncaring fashion. If Derrida's many followers have a stronger position  to state in support of deconstruction, I have not seen it.<br />I would have  preferred more material on Paul de Man, who for some reason is scarcely  mentioned in the book. Nevertheless, Ellis has effectively challenged the  current fashion among the avant garde.	2000-08-17
US	49102993	R1G9LSDSE037LP	1859842585	978801677	Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Useful overview	*Whiteout* is a valuable addition to that growing documentation  of crimes committed against people of all kinds by US intelligence agencies. As the  book shows but does not state, agencies such as a CIA have a single primary  mission. They must do whatever is necessary to neutralize enemies of  America's empire - or as propaganda puts it, protect the Free World from  its enemies everywhere. These agencies do the undercover dirty work that  rarely reaches the headlines, yet amounts to a level of covert warfare that  has gone on for fifty-five years without respite. As the authors show, this  mission may utilize Nazis, dangerous drugs or assassination squads. In  practice, nothing is off limits, since it's power and wealth on a global  scale that's at stake.<br />Americans know little of these horrors because  when it comes to empire's vital interests, politicians, media, and other  imperial managers cooperate in keeping the lid on. When word leaks out, as  occasionally happens -  the case of the contra-cocaine connection, for  example  -  the managers close ranks, call out damage control, and tell us  what a dangerous world it is. I don't believe *Whiteout* breaks any new  ground. It's not that kind of book. Rather it's an invaluable secondary  source, whose annotated bibliography refers readers to other, primary  expose's. Here it is then in *Whiteout* - for those who can stomach it -  the evil underside of empire, part of a complete story that only heaven  knows.	2000-08-16
US	49102993	RER6I5SR1YV4E	0691023476	923880750	Post-Modernism and the Social Sciences	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Timely and well done	It's really hard to know how a nihilistic movement such as post-modernism  can have anything other than a renunciatory effect  upon science of any  kind. That notwithstanding, Rosenau  distinguishes two main strands within  PoMo, which may otherwise cause confusion. The skeptical strand comprises  the purists who brook no compromise with their anti-foundational findings.  On the other hand, are what Rosenau calls the\\"affirmatives\\". They comprise  the compromisers within the broader PoMo camp, and are prepared to somehow  accomodate modernist precepts within a broader PoMo framework. Whether  these affirmatives compose anything more than an unworkable eclecticism, is  left wisely unresolved. Even so, Rosenau believes their sensitivity to  openess has the capacity to force modernism into major revisions. In any  event, it is the purists, the other major strand, who define the movement  itself.<br />If the affirmative's problem is trying to eclectically blend  unblendables, the skeptics tend to refute themselves, the usual outcome of  extreme abeyance. In an excellent concluding section, the author summarizes  the endemic paradoxes of this position. For example, PoMo's use of theory  to disavow theory; deconstruction's use of the very tools it deconstructs,  viz. reason and logic;  moreover, in raising the marginal at the expense of  the center, a value judgement takes place even when such judgements are  programmatically condemned.<br />Boiled down to basics, purist PoMo ends in  its own version of solipsism: millions of unsynthesizable personal  narratives. Small wonder that only the narrowest, most localized results  are  sanctioned in a prospective post-modern social science. In Rosenau's  account, the possibility that such a science can emerge  focuses on  individuals instead of subjects or personalities. Since reason, structure,  and other modes of synthesis are impossible, how such idiosyncratic  accounts can even approach a threshold of science seems inexplicable to me  even after reading the book.<br /> But since PoMo is the fashion of the day,  it's to the author's credit to have crystallized these topical questions in  clearly understood terms.ble to me  even after reading the book.<br /> But since PoMo is the fashion of the day,  it's to the author's credit to have crystallized these topical questions in  clearly understood terms.	2000-08-14
US	49102993	RD70IW5NB3674	0812690702	48255707	Religious Postures: Essays on Modern Christian Apologists and Religious Problems	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Right direction, Wrong vehicle	Wells reaches highly skeptical conclusions which are, nevertheless, based  on a suspect epistemology, viz. empiricism. One of empiricism's recurrent  problems lies implicit in the text: How to construe reality in terms of  sensations. Wells asserts, on one hand, that reality takes its meaning from  details always available to further discovery -  an idealist-like  interpretation of real objects. On the other hand, he admits that language  of perception cannot be reduced to language of sensations. There's a  genuine inconsistency here, of the type that has plagued  `reality=sensations' for centuries.<br />Distinguishing the book's attack on  Christian apologetics are the sections on de Wette and Strauss, those 19th  century historians who subjected Biblical fact to withering historical  criticism. By highlighting the naive phase of Christian belief, Well's  takes dead aim on Fundamentalism which insists on the literal truth of the  Bible. Since Fundamentalist nonsense has undergone a recent emotional  revival in America, it's not a mere academic exercise to insist that the  Bible be examined for historical accuracy. <br />Another notable contribution  points out how Fundamentalism and Christian Liberalism benefit from each  other, often a central point overlooked by critics. Fundamentalism benefits  from the intellectual respectability Liberals provide; Liberals benefit  from Fundamentalism's raw recruiting power. His discussion of  Christianity's survival power also includes social and psychological  factors such as the Soviet-American Cold War,   which indicates the  author's well-rounded understanding. <br />Fundamentalist beliefs may be  debunked by historical criticism; however, attacking  metaphysical beliefs  requires a philosophical position. Here Wells employs the aforementioned  empiricism, an epistemology oriented against metaphysics of all types.  Moreover, his brand appears to emulate the purist tradition of Hume and  Mill in their construal of knowledgeand science. The difficulties with  this classical tradition are historically well known. Oddly missing,  however, is any recognition of those more recent varieties of  anti-metaphysics contained in linguistic philosophy, leading to the  conclusion that Wells is just as interested in defending an eclipsed  epistemology, viz. empiricism, as he is in attacking Christian apologetics.  Eighteenth century battles, it seems, are still being waged by the same  armies, unchanged, except for the faces. All in all,it's still a worthwhile  read for believer and non- alike.	2000-08-13
US	49102993	R3UI0IUQGFOQKM	0893850195	276110703	Christianity and the Intellectuals	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent history; inferior theology	More a history of Christian metaphysics than metaphysics itself, the book  is admirable in many respects, the last chapter notwithstanding. Trace  presents an excellent overview of the evolving relation of Christian  beliefs to that special class of thinkers known as `intellectuals'.  Early  Christianity developed largely on non-intellectual premises. But as it grew  in a relatively hostile environment, the need for reasoned defense against  rival religions grew apace. Early church fathers were instrumental in  synthesizing Greek metaphysics into a fairly coherent apologetics. Not  until the middle ages (circa 500 AD) did the church subsume European  intellectual life, while from that time to circa !4th century, the European  intellectual climate was  controlled by the Roman Catholic Church through  monasteries and then universities. Gradually, however, reason came to  exercise a greater and greater independent role, consigning religious  belief to articles of faith, unto the present day when scientific  materialism has largely replaced last traces of Christian belief among  respectable intellectuals. Trace's narrational account of this 2000 year  period is both lucid and edifying. <br />In a lamentable final chapter,  however, Trace sheds all appearance of impartiality. He plumps for a hazy  return to Christian belief as foreshadowed in the works of Dostoevski,  Kierkegaard and Karl Barth. Partisnship is certainly acceptable among  historians, yet Trace utterly fails to make his case for what appears to be  a kind of sentimental recidvism.  As an historian, Trace succeeds  admirably:; as a theologian, he does not.	2000-08-12
US	49102993	RLLV85Y6M68HT	0253212219	859331960	History and Truth in Hegels Phenomenology, Third Edition	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Uneven handling of difficult material	Not much detail is presented in Westphal's book, nor are the contours of  dialectical development laid out very clearly. A basic outline of the  Phenomenology is followed, but without much attention to the crucial  transitions between dialectical stages. The section on consciousness, (i.e.  sense experience, perception, and understanding), is adequate; the section  on self-consciousness, (i.e. master-slave, unhappy consciouness), is the  weakest and murkiest.<br />Probably, the best section concerns the latter  stages of spiritual progression, (i.e. religion, absolute knowledge).  Westphal discusses developments here in a general context of Christian  theology, showing how Christian themes are taken up and reproduced in  philosophical terms. A traditional issue arises at this point: Has Hegel  abandoned phenomenology (description) for Christian metaphysics  (transcendancy). The author presents a thoroughly secularized  interpretation of of spirit's fulfillment and Absolute Knowledge. Spirit's  ultimate return to itself transpires on the this side of the temporal  divide instead of the transcendent side.  It's an historical and temporal  event in which spirit recognizes itself in others in a mutual display of  love and recognition. It's not a transcendent occurrence in which  exteriority is somehow overcome. Just how this mutual recognition also  includes recognition of nature as its own ontological creation is not clear  to me from Westphal's text; yet some such must be present if Absolute  Knowledge is to truly take place.<br />In the author's opinion, Hegel's error  lies not in a departure from the phenomenological method, since correctly  understood in its secularized interpretation, no metaphysics is involved.  Rather, Hegel's error lies in the naive belief that this final spiritual  stage of description was actually being realized in 19th century Prussia!  In short, his mistake was not philosophical but historical.  Westphal's  reading of Hegel works fine as aninterpretation congenial to modern  secular readers.	2000-08-12
US	49102993	R1LNRC2DT1BQ8R	0816614369	569843313	Kants Critical Philosophy: The Doctrine of the Faculties	Books	5	37	38	N	N	A masterly focus	This is a slim volume, unusual because it operates at a very general level across all three of Kant's Critiques instead of the more usual focus on a  single Critique. Deleuze's aim is architectonic: to show how the three  Critiques fit together to form a coherent whole. This is a valuable  undertaking since it's very easy to get lost in the Kantian thickets, which  are arguably the densest in all of Western philosophy.  <br />Deleuze  organizes the three Critiques around the core notion of faculties and the  objects over which they legislate. For example, understanding legislates in  the faculty of knowledge, while reason operates over the faculty of desire;  taken individually, the study of each makes up the content of the first two  of Kant's celebrated Critiques. Their respective functions are shown by  Deleuze to culminate in the third Critique (i.e. *Critique of Pure  Judgement*), wherein the notion of \\"ends\\", both moral and cognitive, reach  synthetic fulfillment. Hence, it is in the third Critique, instead of the  first two, in which the capstone of Kant's Copernican revolution is  reached. Here in the arena of art and aesthetics, no faculty legislates,  nor are generic objects present. Rather aesthetic judgement involves the  faculties and imagination in a kind of free play aimed at some type of  overall harmony.  Rather than knowledge, which can only be phenomenal,  culture represents humankind's highest achievement and its measurement; and  the highway into 19th century Romanticism opens. <br />Kant is a giant of  Western philosophy. This book aids in an understanding of his overall  undertaking.	2000-08-11
US	49102993	R1X0Q7H4L96OTB	0822932873	219552407	Hegel and After: Studies in Continental Philosophy Between Kant and Sartre	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Has its moments though generally unremarkable	This is a useful, if undistinguished work whose value lies mainly in several illuminating sections of comparison and contrastment. Hegel's  thought is traced out and then compared with the early Marx, throughout  which nothing very novel appears. Perhaps the book's best part is a  contrast of Husserl with Heidegger. Each pursues a transcendental method  but with informatively different results. <br />Husserl's method - in Scacht's  view - constitutes a 'standpoint' requiring abandonment of the natural  attitude toward the world, and ends with an egology of essences stripped of  all contingent features including existence. This is the 'ideal' structure  that Husserl believes makes ordinary experience possible. On the other  hand, Heidegger rejects Husserl's standpoint, believing that it only  produces vacuous abstractions. Instead, he proceeds with  'being-in-the-world' as fundamental and then explores an ontology of what  that means. His method is more existential than Husserl's for whom 'being'  is always a correlate of consciousness. The existential structures  Heidegger seeks to uncover hermeneutically comprise, in his opinion, the  transcendental conditions of experience. Thus we have two very contrastive  views of what makes our ordinary experience possible. To risk  oversimplification: thought is essential in Husserl's analysis of  experience, in Heidegger's instance, it is not.<br />This section should be of  value to readers interested in the trajectory of existentialist thought.	2000-08-11
US	49102993	R2Y5LAGLY6MBMZ	0874778018	99494196	The Truth about the Truth: De-confusing and Re-constructing the Postmodern World (New Consciousness Reader)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Lucid and complete	To many readers, postmodernism (PoMo) is a vexed subject, smacking of  trendy intellectual fashion. However one views it,  Anderson's book  collects a number of essays on the topic that anyone interested in the  dominant ideas of the day should not be without. The entries are not  lengthy and therefore persuasive depth should not be expected. Put them  together, however, and a pretty complete overview of PoMo is before you.  The editor has fashioned a nifty little introduction that lays out the  general orientation in clear and understandable language - a not  inconsiderable feat given the subject matter. <br />One point worth noting  that is not in the book. Beneath the ideas promoted by PoMo lies a  sociological reality captured in that  forbidding word \\"multi-culturalism\\".  There are many different cultures in the world whose customs and mores  project many different kinds of worlds. This fact does seem to leave us  with no common frame of reference to judge any of them as superior, a key  PoMo conclusion. In that sense, postmodernism appears to be the perfect  philosophical expression of an emerging multicultural reality.  Nevertheless, wedging beneath the world's many and various cultures is  another emergent reality - the global consolidation of private property, as  represented by trans-national corporations and international trade  agreements. Beneath PoMo's relativizing of cultural absolutes, there moves  the monolithic grip of global capitalism, homogenizing all cultures in a  consumerist vat. It at least deserves consideration that the former serves  to conceal the latter from the view of secular intellectuals like  post-modernists, and thus becomes the perfect cultural expression of a  consolidating world order. Put another way, the power of Pepsi has  conquered the outdated truths of reason and anyone who complains is  practicing cultural imperialism. So go with the flow. Readers interested in  how PoMo serves the powers-that-be should consult Terry Eagleton or  Frederick Jameson.	2000-08-10
US	49102993	R3SGGFLJIDK694	1888363800	533255380	The More You Watch the Less You Know: News Wars/(sub)Merged Hopes/Media Adventures	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Strong material poorly organized	Despite the dead-on title, Sheckter's narrative works better as personal reminscence than serious critique of a sterile media. A chief reason lies  in the general absence of structure. There is no observable principle  ordering the text. This results in an unpredictable and erratic narrative,  which a more astute editor, I believe, could have presented more  effectively - the material is there. Unfortunately, the whole adds up to  considerably less than the parts.<br />At bottom, Sheckter's book provides  insights into both strengths and weaknesses of the New Left from which he  hails. None of the Old Left's rigid dogmatism enters into the text. On one  hand, this allows him to confront a lock-step media in a more agile and  less preconceived manner than critics of old. On the other hand, it  produces a hopeful innocence that seems to learn much less from informed  experience than should be the case. Does the author really expect these  corporate entities to reform themselves in a progressive manner as his  recommendations indicate. Here we arrive at a crux of the dilemma  confronting any erstwhile reformer. Can real, humane change be expected of  those entities whose bottom line is always money, even when an inventive  and dedicated gadfly like Sheckter burrows from within. Without serious  pressure from outside the industry, can such gadflys serve as anything more  than occasionally troublesome house radicals. Given the temper of the  times, that may be as much as anyone can expect.	2000-08-09
US	49102993	R1UCYYVFNK2ZCM	0860915387	876104197	Ideology: An Introduction	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Slugs it out with difficult material	This is a difficult, but rewarding book for readers interested in the concept of ideology in a postmodern environment.  Essentially, ideology  means false societal beliefs that become institutionalized so they can  serve the interests of a ruling class. Ideological beliefs are like  propaganda, but differ in being much more deeply embedded in how a person  thinks about the society he or she lives in. Thus, for those of us who are  Americans, we all tend to have certain beliefs about the nature of the  democracy we live in. Beliefs that structure the way we act, like being  duty-bound to go to the polls to elect our leaders. Critics, on the other  hand, might point out how these beliefs actually work against most people  and for the hidden interests of those elites who really hold power in  America. If the critic is right, then those beliefs would be ideological  ones and represent a \\"false consciousness\\" about democracy-in-America's  true nature.<br />There is a conceptual issue that arises with the notion of  ideology. It implies at its heart that there are objective truths in the  world that do not depend on our idea of them in order for them to be true.   On a more extreme view, it can mean there are absolute truths that cannot  be relativized to any person, group, or time period. The natural sciences  were long held as our only reliable source of these objective truths. Thus,  the early supporters of the idea of ideology believed that by using  scientific methods, the false beliefs of ideology could be unmasked or  exposed.  However, since the time of the early Greeks  there have been  thinkers who challenged the idea of objective truth. Truth, these skeptics  argue, is in the eye of the beholder. Thus science, for one, discloses no  inner truths about the world; it only aids us in remaking things in ways  that satisfy the needs of the more powerful among us. The issue that  non-skeptics like Eagleton must confront is that without a clear concept of  objective truth, the whole idea of ideology seems impossible. <br />The  problem for our historical period is that the climate is dominated by a  skepticism toward objective truths, making the concept of ideology very  unfashionable. Eagleton would like to rescue false consciousness from the  current version of skepticism (postmodernism), which is what the book is  mainly about. He examines the various positions that both defenders of the  concept (Marx, Lukasz, Althusser) and its critics (Nietzsche, Rorty,  Derrida), among others, have taken over the years. So far as I can tell,  Eagleton presents no new theory of his own. Instead he uses some forceful  examples to illustrate the underlying practical value the idea of false  consciousness has for us all. <br />Certainly some background in philosophy is  needed to navigate these difficult routes. But if you agree that many of  our most  embedded and structured beliefs serve the interests of others  instead of ourselves, and that we do not come by these beliefs  accidentally, then you too have an interest in ideology.	2000-08-08
US	49102993	R1SVMMMLMHAYXM	0268013586	220213388	Marxism and Christianity	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Marxism from a master Hegelian	Mac Intyre is always worth reading. This is a slim volume, and despite the  title, contains little concerning Christianity. Mainly the book serves as  an overview of modern Marxism from a sympathetic vantage point.  Importantly, the author finds certain key areas of overlap between Marxism  and Christianity. At a philosophical level, he believes Marx takes over  Hegel's reworking of core Christian themes and turns them into a  secularized version of history and the millenium. Moreover, Mac Intyre sees  in Marxian practice a paradox: a tendency to perpetuate proto-religious  phenomena in what at times seem like cultish practices, such as Stalin's  cult of the personality.  More substantially, he sees a pervasive ambiguity  in Marx's writings between determinism and voluntarism. In short, just how  much difference does the \\"human factor\\" make in the shaping of history, a  question that, in Mac Intyre's view, Marx was never able to resolve.<br />He  believes Christianity and Marxism share a key objection to  modern  liberalism, the dominant  ideology of our age. Liberalism systematically  separates fact from value: facts are one kind of thing, values are another,  and there is no logical connection between them. Therefore, the individual  is sovereign in deciding what to do and not do, because the world does not  imply any one set of values to live by.  For both Christians and Marxists,  knowledge of the world and its order leads to self-knowledge and the  ability to avoid predictable frustrations. Knowledge thus becomes a  prerquisite to formative action that is valid not just for one person  (liberalism), but for all people. At its best Marxism, like Christianity,  functions as a relentless critic of society's reigning illusions - a  conclusion not uncongenial to Hegel's philosophy of spiritual  progression.Thus the author remains a leading Christian Hegelian in this  work as well as in others.	2000-08-07
US	49102993	RXMHQ3KRBZXH1	1888363932	830851840	Dark Alliance: The CIA, the Contras, and the Crack Cocaine Explosion	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A paradigm of investigative reporting	Webb's indictment is massive, well-documented, and in all probability, true. Many of us grown cynical by the horrors commited in defense of empire, are not surprised by Webb's findings. As most knowledgable readers know, collusion with narco-traffikers goes back at least to Lucky Luciano and plans to invade Sicily during WWII. Moreover, Webb's story and media reaction to it, is echoed in the more recent Tailwind fiasco of 1998. CNN broke a well-documented account of nerve gas use against American deserters during the Vietnam conflict. Reaction among its electronic colleagues was swift, uninformed, and overwhelming, causing CNN to disown the story and fall back in line, all the while the story's producers and witnesses stuck by the original account. This is the \\"free press\\" version of the party line, facts be damned. Webb faces this same dark alliance in making public his  research, revealing as it is. The big slamming sound you hear is the sound of imperial managers closing ranks when the empire feels threatened. Gary Webb now knows the sound very well.	2000-08-07
US	49102993	R2QVF0VNCGA22J	0679749861	967695947	Race Matters	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Stimulating though incomplete	In \\"Race Matters\\" West is concerned solely with with the current state of black America. Curiously - perhaps to a fault - missing from the picture is  a discussion of pervasive economic poverty thet plagues black America, a  staple of most race discussions. Instead he dwells on the psychic state of  a victimized people. Thus the book is more psychological than sociological  and his proposed remedies dwell on forging new attitudes rather than on  drawing strategies from social statistics. This is primarily the work of a  moralizer.<br />Moralizing is not necessarily a fault in the book. His aim  here appears more topical than long-term, suggesting that attitudes must  change before movements start. As he sees it, the main obstacle facing  black action lies in a widespread emergence of nihilism across the black  multitudes. Hence the question is how to overcome the kind of  value-negation that prevents real constructive action. His antidote focuses  on love and care - two seeming throwbacks to 19th century romanticism and  perhaps dismissable on that basis. Nevertheless, considering the crux of  the problem as he describes it, the recommended solution has genuine merit.  How else can people demand justice unless they feel worthy of it.  <br />That  West would operate on a moral level rather than a sociological one is not  surprising. His attachment to M. L. King and the prophetic tradition  remains uppermost despite the high regard displayed elsewhere for Marx's  work, among others. However, when he calls for more coalition work among  progressives - a worthy goal - his overtures show little potential for  reaching beyond the preachment stage, largely because he dwells on race to  the apparent exclusion of class. Yet taking on the propagators of negative  and nihilistic stereotypes in the media means taking on the class forces  that denigrate not only blacks, but denigrate labor, gays, and other groups  as well. Putting muscle into cultural reform means joining with other  despised groups in challenging the owners and propagators of the negative  imagery. In short, overturning cultural barriers requires both social  analysis and class action. I think West appreciates this materialist point  of view, but his Christian heritage and prophetic vision threaten to  restrict his work to the confines of liberal politics, the very brand of  politics responsible in large part for the current predicament.<br />Much else  of value remains in the book. His discussion of Malcolm X is quite  insightful and consistent with West's humane outlook. The lie is given to  those widely disseminated black conservatives who mouth conservative  platitudes yet make no inroads into black popular thinking. On a more  panoramic level, West juxtaposes liberal platitudes about race and remedies  with their conservative counterparts, arguing that both are seriously  deficient. Seemingly what he aims at here is a kind of sublative synthesis  of the two schools. It's not clear however what sort of politics is  projected by the synthesis. In fact, after a number of West's socially  informed writings, I'm still not very sure of his political prescriptions.  There is something maddening about a continuing buildup without a specific  pay-off. Nevertheless, this remains an important book from an important  thinker.	2000-08-06
US	49102993	R3RJZY6KLS72CF	052133831X	839035915	An Introduction to Karl Marx	Books	2	19	23	N	N	An introduction to Elster more than Marx	Elster's book serves as a poor introduction to Marx's thought for several  reasons. First, Elster doesn't lay out Marx's specific doctrines in much  detail, leaving the reader with a mere impression instead of an  understanding of the theories involved.  Much lack of clarity and detail  results from Elster's eagerness to refute specific theories at the same  time he presents them. Moreover his interpretations are consistently  uncharitable. Combined with little effort at elaborating Marx's theories to  meet the objections, we're left with a pretty partisan result, and one made  paradoxical by Elster's own self-described Marxism.<br />The impression  throughout is of superficiality. I suspect much of this superficiality  results from Elster's &quot;methodological individualism&quot; and  fashionable reliance on game theory, the current paradigm of rationable  behavior. Small wonder that Elster finds sympathy only in certain Marxian  themes rather than specific results, given Marx's general allegiance to  holistic forms of explanation.  The book's unsatisfactory nature is almost  redeemed by an outstanding chapter on self-realization as Marx's chief  social value.  The rest of the chapters pale in comparison to this little  gem among the castoffs.	2000-08-06
US	49102993	R1PIJHV441VN8J	0872863298	673466125	Blackshirts and Reds: Rational Fascism and the Overthrow of Communism	Books	5	37	45	N	N	Bold and uncompromising	This is an unsparing, uncompromising defense of Marxism-Leninism from a  respected scholar of political science. No politically engaged person  should fail to read Parenti's book. It will be outrageous to some,  inspirational to others, but thought provoking to all.  The author takes on  critics from the right and the left in a highly accessible writing style.  His ideas are presented clearly and forcefully, without technical or  theoretical jargon.<br /> Among his politically-charged topics: communism and  fascism,  revolution, delusions within the left, the collapse of the soviet  bloc, and perhaps most important, the ongoing necessity of class analysis  in a postmodern world. Parenti's book serves as a clear statement and  reassessment of where Marxism-Leninism stands in a world that has seemingly  rejected those ideas but whose triumphal market economies move increasingly  in a Marxian direction. \\"Blackshirts and Reds\\" fills a huge gap for the  general reader and is not to be missed.	2000-08-05
US	49102993	RC0KJKSHQ5HXR	0860915476	702969642	Marxism in the United States: Remapping the History of the American Left (Haymarket (Hardcover))	Books	1	5	9	N	N	A peculiarly ahistorical history	There is something peculiarly ahistorical about this history of Marxism in the USA. Buhle's brand of Marxism operates in a historical vacuum where  external events are rarely if ever glimpsed. Thus, Marxism's record in  America becomes little more than a series of rather inexlicable failures.  Names, dates, events, rarely appear, and when they do, they are largely  decontextualized. Pesumably themes remain, but when taken outside their  explanatory contexts, they become abstractions - surely a strange outcome  for an exercise in historical scolarship. <br />\\"Old Marxism\\" is roundly  condemned. Yet no real analytical explanation of why those political  parties failed is presented. Instead the narrative of failure moves along  like a free-flowing stream without hint of the surrounding shore. Buhle has  more success with accounts of the New Left in which he participated. But  once again there is no sense of context, i.e. period potential or lack  thereof. Nowhere, for example, does he address  the  political potential of  an anti-war movement evolving within a larger context of general  prosperity. For a work on Marxism, the absense of economic context here, as  elsewhere, amounts to a paradox and characterizes the book as a whole.  But  then, inclusion of such themes would perhaps smack too much of the Old  Left.<br />Recurring instead are cultural themes. That Marxism failed in an  elemental way to connect with American culture is a powerful and  provocative thesis that lies buried somewhere in the text. Resurrecting it  and addressing the historical subplots would amount to a real contrbution.  But alas, as the book stands, New Left thinking may make for energizing  politics, but in Buhle's case, it makes for poor historical writing.	2000-08-05
US	49102993	R13GFHJX7SEO76	0140050027	663651845	Emile Durkheim (Penguin modern masters)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Serviceable but undistinguished	Howe is a former Trotskyite, now a member of mainstream academia. Perhaps not surprisingly, his biography sympathizes with Trotsky's Marxist career - the anti-Stalinism in particular - while critiquing the undemocratic tendencies within Trotsky's unyielding Leninism. Still, unlike many former Trotskyites, he remains a socialist. I don't know if there is anything special about this brief biography; I suspect that if there is, the distinction lies in pointing out specific opportunities for democratizing the Russian revolution's direction. According to Howe, there were several such important missed opportunities. On the other hand, Howe's democratic sensibilities appear to minimize the class forces arrayed against Bolshevism in power. Pressures from predatory Western capitalism are all but absent in Howe's discussions. If history is a \\"bitch\\", as Howe holds, we should be no less cynical about appeals to democracy. For if History is the opiate of Marxism, Democracy is no less the opiate of bourgeois liberalism.	2000-08-05
US	49102993	R3094LVRY3L5UJ	0805034544	101388594	The Cold War: A History	Books	5	9	16	N	N	A well-distributed overview	It's always risky buying books off the shelf, especially on controversial subjects like the Cold War. Nevertheless, I was pleasantly surprised by  Martin Walker's history of that vexed period. He strives for a balanced and  non-partisan approach, and succeeds admirably. This is no small  accomplishment, given the kinds of pressures, commercial and ideological,  to cast the contest as one pitting the Free World (us) against the Evil  Empire (them).  Wisely, Walker avoids such reductionist  thinking.<br />Basically, the contest  that emerges is between two very  complex empires, each striving for domination of the other. And if the West  emerges victorious as it did, it's not because of any inherent moral  superiority, but because its institutions ultimately proved more efficient  at producing both guns and butter. Astutely, Walker avoids divisive moral  comparisons, since to do so would entail endless rounds of which side  commited the greater atrocities, about which there is considerable blame on  both sides.  <br />Highlighting the book is the little gem of a chapter on the  Cuban missile crisis, a dramatic account that once again shows why war is  too important to be left to the generals. If the book has a fault, it's the  occasional absence of tissues to connect events from one chapter to the  next. Thus important threads sometimes dangle. This is probably unavoidable  for a relatively brief  account that covers such a densely packed 50 year  time period.  Thus Walker's book emerges as an excellent short history of  those events that shaped the lives of so many of us.	2000-08-04
US	49102993	R3OISEVIVDMKVQ	089608289X	95119017	On Power and Ideology: The Managua Lectures	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful	The book is compiled from a series of lectures given in Managua, Nicaragua.  In his remarks, the author moves easily and almost flawlessly from one bloc of  political facts to another, from one time period to  another, with real independence of mind. The overriding theme here - and  never far away in Chomsky's topical works - is American ideology, its  reality and debunking. In this case, the focus is on the bloody recent  history of Central America and Washington's role in it. The amazing point  with such efforts is how close to the surface truth actually lies and how  easily official myths can be exposed. Yet - also -  how habitual it is for  our intelligentsia to ignore these political unpleasantries, such as CIA  sponsored slaughter in Central America. <br />Thus  &quot;On Power and  Ideology&quot; need not exercise complex reasoning nor obscure research to  validate its main point; Chomsky needs only to cite historical records to  make his case.  Though  he never states this thesis explcitly, his case  studies such as Latin America, revolve around it. That main point being:   that behind all Washington's official praise for human rights lies one  non-democratic &quot;right&quot; that determines all the rest and guides  our policy makers, namely the &quot;right&quot; of American investment to  go where it wants and do what it wants. (Considering the devastating effect  NAFTA, the WTO, and other trade agreements have had on working America and  the environment, this is a revealing point to make.) Other rights can be  seen as secondary and of instrumental value only to this one overriding  imperial drive.  This is not a book for the faint-hearted. Be prepared to  learn about our hidden history.	2000-08-02
US	49102993	R2NNRQ6Q2J93XH	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Useful but misleading	The issues Gore (his ghost-writer) raises are legitimate. In fact there is an environmental crisis. Gore's contribution is to inject these contentious  questions into a largely disbelieving mainstream. The trouble is that the  rhetoric from this politician is sappy and banal. Moreover - as could be  expected - he dodges the main issue underlying environmental crisis.  Namely, how can we expect an economy based on commodities, accumulation,  and an aggressive exploitation of our natural environment to solve the  problem that it has largely created. No mention is made of this underlying  paradox. To do so, however, would end Gore's political career, a sacrifice  that neither he nor the two-party monopoly he represents are prepared to  make. Readers would be better advised to step up to the many better books  on this urgent topic.	2000-08-02
US	49102993	R2QD0G6NOXEWCB	0688125794	777337279	In Mortal Combat: Korea, 1950-1953	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A generally balanced account	This is a lengthy book on the fascinating but vexed topic of the Korean War. Toland strives for what he calls a non-partisan, non-ideological approach, and generally succeeds. Unfortunately he, along with other  historians, is able to shed little light on crucial events leading up to  North Korea's invasion of the south.  This remains one of the many murky  but fascinating puzzles surrounding this \\"forgotten\\" war. A couple of  points from the book are worth remarking on.<br />Like most orthodox  historians, Toland lays principal blame on General Mac Arthur's notoriously  imperious personality for the strategic entry of China into the war.  In  short, Mac Arthur's egotism led UN forces into the military debacle at the  Yalu.  Toland, like many others, however, neglects the importance of our  domestic \\"China Lobby\\" in providing the General with the political support  he needed to mount his aggressive advance on Chinese Manchuria. The fact  that the war was widened as a result was more a matter of domestic American  politics than the theater commander's unbounded ego.<br />The book's most  distinctive parts are those that attempt to balance the historical account.  Several rather startling admissions surface like sudden jolts of alarm  during the closing chapters. First is the degree of military censorship and  evasion surrounding the two years of peace negotiations. Surprisingly,  Toland reports American journalists as getting more accurate information  from left-wing and communist sources than from our own official sources.  (Even so, there is no insurrection among overseas reporters; that would  come later in Vietnam.)  Nowhere, however, are his credentials as a  non-partisan historian under greater pressure than on the explosive issue  of biological weapons, perhaps the war's most controversial subject.  Generally dismissed out of hand in orthodox accounts, Toland makes the  startling pronouncement that evidence does indeed support communist claims  of biological weapons used against them. Paradoxically, however, he almost  immediately reverses himself by citing support for UN denials. The net  result is that both sides are held as being correct!  Clearly the author is  not prepared psychologically to tackle the war's knotty ideological issues.  In that sense, Toland remains a strictly military historian and jounalist,  but one who has produced a highly readable account of a murky long-ago war.	2000-08-01
US	49102993	RTNNJL5NIW575	0872862984	824086654	Against Empire	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Devastating despite its briefness	Parenti's &quot;Against Empire&quot; packs a lot of clout in a small space. The book serves as a devastating critique of our foreign policy illusions. Simply put: The image is democracy; The reality is imperialism.  Parenti is probably the most consistent high-profile academic courageous  enough to trace public policy to class interest. Noam Chomsky is also a  high-profile and consistent critic of American imperialism, but he refrains  from either using the word or from offering a class analysis. Parenti takes  the analysis one step further. One might fault this book for being short on  documentation, but those familiar with Parenti's works understand the  documentation is present in his other, more narrowly-focused books. Thus,  &quot;Against Empire&quot; serves as something of an introduction to the  author's invaluable other works.<br /> One of the book's more personal  chapters concerns empire in academia with which professor Parenti has  first-hand experience. His discussion of quiet and sometimes noisy faculty  purges gives the lie to illusions of free speech in academe. He makes clear  that if department heads won't oust politically troublesome faculty, then  trustees - usually made up of business elites and political appointees -  will do the dirty work. One way or the other, empire requires that class  conscious teachers must be kept from talking to students about the  systematic effects of wealth and imperialism on their lives.<br />Parenti's  exposure of capitalism-disguised-as-democracy is refreshing. Because of  capital's tainted and bloody history, empire's propagandists couch their  defenses in terms of democratic ideals rather than the more truthful  money-grubbing imperatives of actual policy making. Fed a steady dose of  this doubletalk, an uncritical public either repeats the idealizing  refrain, or, if more critical, becomes cynical about politics in general.  Either way, a potentially restive voting public is effectively neutralized.  Far from expressing anything like a popular will, capitalist-style  democracy subverts this will into a management technique of  directing and  controlling popular dissent. When anything like popular will challenges  empire's basic institutions (as in the case of Vietnam), force can and will  be used against it. In practice, American capital prefers the control  mechanism of cosmetic democracy to direct authoritarian rule. But it will  never sacrifice its narrow class interests to a reality of popular  sovereignty.  Agree or disagree, this is a work to ponder.	2000-08-01
US	49102993	R9MF9RGV5NX0C	089608289X	95119017	On Power and Ideology: The Managua Lectures	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Powerful	The book is compiled from a series of lectures given in Managua, Nicaragua.  In his remarks, the author moves easily and almost flawlessly from one bloc of  political facts to another, from one time period to  another, with real independence of mind. The overriding theme here - and  never far away in Chomsky's topical works - is American ideology, its  reality and debunking. In this case, the focus is on the bloody recent  history of Central America and Washington's role in it. The amazing point  with such efforts is how close to the surface truth actually lies and how  easily official myths can be exposed. Yet - also -  how habitual it is for  our intelligentsia to ignore these political unpleasantries, such as CIA  sponsored slaughter in Central America. <br />Thus  &quot;On Power and  Ideology&quot; need not exercise complex reasoning nor obscure research to  validate its main point; Chomsky needs only to cite historical records to  make his case.  Though  he never states this thesis explcitly, his case  studies such as Latin America  revolve around it. That main point being:   that behind all Washington's official praise for human rights lies one  non-democratic &quot;right&quot; that determines all the rest and guides  our policy makers, namely the &quot;right&quot; of American investment to  go where it wants and do what it wants. (Considering the devastating effect  NAFTA, the WTO, and other trade agreements have had on working America and  the environment, this is a revealing point to make.) Other rights can be  seen as secondary and of instrumental value only to this one overriding  imperial drive.  This is not a book for the faint-hearted. Be prepared to  learn about our hidden history.	2000-07-31
US	49102993	RIF9BGL1QS9S7	1567510485	389478956	Through the Media Looking Glass: Decoding Bias and Blather in the News	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Too brief for real use	The book is made up of a collection of editorials from FAIR, the public-interest watchdog group. The articles are short and not particularly incisive, and focus on the usual transgressions of America's  corporate-owned media. As a reference source Cohen and Solomon's book is  not particularly valuable: the articles are simply too  brief to provide  much useful depth or information. Moreover the groupings lack real coherent  unity that follow through on the theme. Still and all, a revisit of Upton  Sinclair's struggle against the entrenched wealth of his day (1920's &amp;  30's) provides useful perspective on today's media struggles. And the beat  goes on.	2000-07-31
US	49102993	R1KGLCBD7MFLE7	158367019X	880964645	The Vulnerable Planet: A Short Economic History of the Environment (Cornerstone Books (New York, N.Y.).)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Slender but potent	This is a little book, but very informative, although some may be put off by its Marxist point of view. Environmental destruction, as Foster shows, is as old as humankind. Nevertheless destruction of the natural world has  increased at an astonishing rate during modern times making ours a very  vulnerable planet. Foster links this increase to a specific social system,  capitalism, instead of industrialism in general as many other critics do.  This is a thought-provoking connection to make, since our media is usually  silent on this topic. According to Foster (and Marx), it seems our system,  capitalism, has an inborn need to turn everything it can into a saleable  commodity in order to make money. Moreover it has to keep expanding  commodities into ever new fields in order to return profits on money  already invested. Like Topsy, then, the laws of its development tell it to  either grow or die. Thus, when venture capitalists look at nature, they  don't see what is living there; they see limitless raw material to be  processed and sold, and if they don't do it, some competitor will. It is  this relentless engine of development and destruction that has made the  planet vulnerable. Thus Foster blames the problem on the way our economy  operates, and not on technology in general. Critics should examine his  arguments.     A couple of other subjects Foster discusses are worthy of  review, given how they are usually talked about. On the topic of population  and poverty, Malthus, an 18th century clergyman,  famously blames poverty  on the poor. The poor keep having kids when they shouldn't, he argues,  which is why there are more hungry mouths to feed than food to feed them.  So, the lesson is don't feed them, they'll just have more kids. Being a parson and a kind  of Newt Gingrich of his time, he would leave the wretched to the mercies of  God. On the other hand, Foster (and Marx) take an historical perspective on  overpopulation. Capital must have the poor, because wagelevels depend on  having an excessive number of poor people around. Employers need them as  so-called replacement workers, should their own employees strike for higher  wages. Without that threat, wages would rise and employers would lose  money. The poor are not God's creation, they are man's. (Considering how  our chief cental banker Alan Greenspan acts by encouraging unemployment,  Foster's approach makes sense.)   Ecology is another important part of our  planet's mounting crisis. In making his case that our economic system is  the main cause of the problem, Foster discusses Barry Commoner's four  informal laws of capitalist ecology. They are worth mentioning. 1) Only the  cash nexus (money) is lasting; 2) Waste can go anywhere as long as it's out  of the capitalist loop; 3) The free market knows best: 4) nature is the  possession of the private property owner. Together these provisions make up  capital's marching orders in its assault on nature. Provision #3 seems  particularly destructive since it replaces the complex web of  millions of  years of natural evolution with profit-driven human decision. Moreover,  these provisions pretty much describe how big corporations act in the real  world.    Anyway, friends will find ammunition; foes will find points to  ponder; and the appropriately curious will be rewarded. Foster's is a suppressed voice that really needs to be heard.	2000-07-28
US	49102993	RSH3WNNATVLHC	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	2	9	15	N	N	A calculated career move that does a disservice	As might be expected from a self-described &quot;environmentalist&quot;  and politician, the merits of the book are mixed to say the least. The  rhetoric, of which there is too much, is sappy, banal, and strictly  one-dimensional, but then he is running for office. In fact, the book as a  whole refuses to take on the tough questions that environmental crisis  poses to a capitalist economy (&quot;democracy&quot; in his predictable  conflation). How, for example, does the need for strict environmental  controls and encompassing policy coordination affect the legal sanctity of  private property  that is enshrined in capitalist political economy. He  avoids this time-bomb whenever possible, though it remains one of the key  issues raised by the crisis. Gore (or his ghost-writer) may not, for  example, grasp just how the Endangered Species Act jeopardizes sanctified  land-use rights, but the corporate sector sure as heck does. Other  sensitive issues are treated in like dishonest fashion. Notice how  deviously he treats the procreation policies of the Catholic church when  overpopulation is asserted as his number one environmental concern. Instead  of forthrightly denouncing Vatican policy of unrestricted birth, he  compliments the church for its non-interference in genuinely progressive  organizations as though that were enough. The book has a positive side and  that is to sound the environmental alarm among those popular segments  unreachable by anything but the mainstream. But to suppose that global  disaster can be averted by the very system that bought it about, and not  really dicuss the terms of that contradiction, is not a help but a  hindrance.	2000-07-26
US	49102993	R1WR1B958VV1OT	0062505955	574847458	The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientific Revolution	Books	3	45	56	N	N	Flat treatment of important topic	This is a book on the important topic of ecofeminism. The author wants to show how the modern destruction of nature and our environment ties in with the subjugation of women during the same period. However, to understand how these assaults occurred, we have to first examine the history of ideas. As Merchant shows, these destructive attitudes toward women and nature reflect changing ideas of how we think about people and our place in the world. What characterizes this new way of thinking which began about 500 years ago is the idea that trees, colors, ideas, people, in short, the entire cosmos, are really just the mechanical actions of matter in motion, no matter how much things may seem otherwise. From this modern perspective, the natural world and everything in it really amounts to a gigantic machine in motion, thereby debasing our ordinary experience of that world. Nonetheless, this reduction of things to numbers greatly helps the rise of modern science, especially technology, by showing how mathematics can be applied concretely and experimentally to just about everything there is. Moreover, during this period, how people think about society also changes. Society too is conceived as a colossal machine, a human one, possessing definite structures, with components conceived as self-contained and independent little atoms, who associate with one another not because of inner need but because of external advantage. Thus, moral philosophy too, follows modern thinking by becoming a credo of \\"it's okay for the selfish man to get ahead in life\\", while economic science becomes a means of determining how we can all get ahead without destroying the social fabric. Or, put another way, we're really only interested in ourselves, but cooperate with others as a means of gaining our own ends and avoiding a consuming war of all against all. It's not too hard to see the seeds of destructive assault in such thinking.<br />Nature thus undergoes a profound change from the traditional conception of nurturing mother to one of dead machine, that is, from an object of affection to an object of subjugation and exploitation. Correspondingly, the traditionally moral way of looking at our natural surroundings changes to a non-moral, strictly neutral, it-is-there-to-be-used point of view. Moreover, these new aggressive attitudes are associated with how men should act, are supposed to act; while women,on the other hand, are thought of (like nature) as passive, there-to-be-used objects of exploitation. Such thinking thus enables industry and technology to historically combine in an ongoing assault upon the environment, on one hand, and  women, on the other. What is needed, of course, is a new way of thinking that will end these horrific abuses - What has changed, can be changed. Unfortunately, Merchant treats this fascinating subject in a lifeless manner. She walks through the historical precedents in dry, uninspired, and thoroughly descriptive fashion, leaving the impression of an embroidered postgraduate dissertation. Her thesis cries out for greater color, synthesis and argumentation. As a student of the humanist philosopher Theodore Roszak, she could use more of his chutzpah.eption of nurturing mother to one of dead machine, that is, from an object of affection to an object of subjugation and exploitation. Correspondingly, the traditionally moral way of looking at our natural surroundings changes to a non-moral, strictly neutral, it-is-there-to-be-used point of view. Moreover, these new aggressive attitudes are associated with how men should act, are supposed to act; while women,on the other hand, are thought of (like nature) as passive, there-to-be-used objects of exploitation. Such thinking thus enables industry and technology to historically combine in an ongoing assault upon the environment, on one hand, and  women, on the other. What is needed, of course, is a new way of thinking that will end these horrific abuses - What has changed, can be changed. Unfortunately, Merchant treats this fascinating subject in a lifeless manner. She walks through the historical precedents in dry, uninspired, and thoroughly descriptive fashion, leaving the impression of an embroidered postgraduate dissertation. Her thesis cries out for greater color, synthesis and argumentation. As a student of the humanist philosopher Theodore Roszak, she could use more of his chutzpah.	2000-07-26
US	49102993	R1AILC53RMYXPI	0671732943	757649821	The Population Explosion	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Timely but oversimplified	The book is a sequel to an earlier, very successful discussion of population pressures. Key to the Erlichs' approach here is the formula I=PAT, which stands for Impact equals Population times Affluence times  Technology. The larger any one of these factors, the higher the product,  i.e. the impact - all other factors remaining equal. By  &quot;technology&quot; and &quot;affluence&quot;, the authors presumably  intend the environmentally destructive types of each, though how  qualitative differences can be expressed qualitatively is left largely  unexplained. Clearly the equation aims at a very generalized and imprecise  level of abstraction, more suitable for detecting trends than setting  policy. Whether such streamlining conceals more variability than it reveals  is not really discussed and clouds the work as a whole.<br />Central to the  book is the impact of one particular factor, namely P or population. Growth  increases in this category alone, as I=PAT shows, can undo strides in all  other categories combined. At bottom, the book represents an assessment of   these far-reaching population impacts plus specific projections based on  current figures in all categories. In that topical sense the work is not  strictly theoretical and though certain Malthusian themes are sounded, the  work is not a gloomy updating of unavoidable doom. Changes in growth  patterns can make a lasting difference, the authors are anxious to  inform.<br />Sheer numbers of people, however, do not tell the whole impact  story, which is why the Erlich's have included the factor of  &quot;affluence&quot; in one of their better sections. In the role of  affluent consumers, not all people count the same. Because of their greater  consuption level, citizens of richer nations, for example, have much  greater impact on world resources than people in poorer countries. Thus, as  their equation shows, population reductions among the industrialized have a  disproportionately helpful effect on world resources. Promisingly,  population growth rates in richer areas such as western Europe and the U.S.  have slackened with increasing levels of affluence, which indicates an  important correlation between birth-rate and material well-being. Thus  economic class emerges as an important factor to gaining a sustainable  environment and I wish the authors had spent more time emphasizing this.  <br />The book has many good points, but unfortunately lacks impact and real  analytic depth. Probably, as a work aimed at a mass audience, analytic  depth was not intended. Moreover, being a sequel to a widely discussed  first book creates a tough act to follow. Nevertheless, aside from some  useful statistics, more questions are posed than answered.	2000-07-26
US	49102993	R3B6TE78PHISC3	0865711518	800001164	The Poverty of Affluence: A Psychological Portrait of the American Way of Life	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Still topical and on target	All in all, Wachtel's work remains an excellent profile of middle-class psychology in America, its habits, expectations and frustrations. The book was quite popular when first published, and though many changes have since occurred, the central theme remains as relevant now as then. Much of  the book's inspiration comes from counter-cultural themes of the sixties, and thus represents not only a critique of corporate America but of the materialist ethic as well. One key theme predominates: bigger isn't necessarily better. On the contrary, our national obsession with growth has, despite the sloganeering, produced a deeply unhappy society of atomized individuals. Most of the points here are fairly familiar ones concentrating on the spiritual limitations of material accumulation made more severe by the use of competition as the driving force behind obsessive growth and accumulation. The author, a psychologist, has experienced a number of dysfunctional patients whose difficulties, as he shows, are traceable to these societal phenomena.<br />In the context of professional psychology, Wachtel presents a number of critical assessments of other schools of psychology, including a number of insights into modern social behavior. A significant element of his own orientation lies in connecting the psychological with the social, and the health of the individual with that of the group, a move which rejects a key assumption of the modern age, viz. methodological individualism. Accordingly, an important part of the book lies in a citique of individualism in its many guises and philosophical forms. Behind this critique appears to lie a deep regard for the humanistic impulse which he views as inherently social in nature. To the detriment of that  impulse, however, a society of unhappy, alienated people is being produced by a national ethos of mindless self-absorbtion, obsessive growth, and an ethic of competition. Hence remedies for personal ills must tackle the societal thereby taking on a scope far exceeding that of the single individual. Accordingly, Wachtel mounts a non-technical critique of capitalism as an ordering process and its need to reproduce these alienating forms of social behavior. In the process, he seeks to shatter myths surrounding the marketplace as producing the best of all possible worlds. What he appears to be plumping for--implicitly at least--is a genuinely socialist society without the explicit use of that vexed term.<br />He writes fair-mindedly and effectively in assessing soviet socialism, democratic socialism, and capitalism, while his chief economic inspiration appears to derive from liberals like J. K. Galbreath and Lester Thurow. Though the book is currently out of print, I think it remains a classic statement of what American consumerism has actually wrought.on a scope far exceeding that of the single individual. Accordingly, Wachtel mounts a non-technical critique of capitalism as an ordering process and its need to reproduce these alienating forms of social behavior. In the process, he seeks to shatter myths surrounding the marketplace as producing the best of all possible worlds. What he appears to be plumping for--implicitly at least--is a genuinely socialist society without the explicit use of that vexed term. <br />He writes fair-mindedly and effectively in assessing soviet socialism, democratic socialism, and capitalism, while his chief economic inspiration appears to derive from liberals like J. K. Galbreath and Lester Thurow. Though the book is currently out of print, I think it remains a classic statement of what American consumerism has actually wrought.	2000-07-25
US	49102993	R3JWJH1JE7O1ZP	0896083667	10806628	Necessary Illusions: Thought Control in Democratic Societies	Books	3	90	112	N	N	Eyeopener for newcomers, disappointment for Chomskyites	On the whole, this book is disappointing and greatly inferior to Chomsky's similarly theme-ed Manufacturing Consent. Necessary Illusions amounts to little more than an updating of media duplicity in mainstream coverage of  Central America and Israel. From the title, I expected a more systematic  analysis of methods, mechanics, and reasons that operate behind media  coverage. Instead, Chomsky offers a loose model of journalistic propaganda  and a few methods for detecting its presence, viz. the Comparison Method.  However, the model is neither detailed nor a really very useful one. Thus  at a time when tv's propaganda function, for one, is becoming clearer to  the public, Necessary Illusions fails to deliver much beyond the usual case  studies familiar to Chomskyites. Important as this empirical work may be,  especially for newcomers to Chomsky, what is needed is a more  thorough-going model of how raw news gets processed into self-serving  policy reinforcement. In short, a better model of the communication  industry's ideological function.<br />It's surprising that someone as skilled  at theorizing as Chomsky appears to shy away from this next logical step to  his many invaluable case studies. Americans by and large recognise that  despite being &quot;free&quot;, the popular media is not to be trusted. Now  we need be persuaded why this is so. Perhaps Chomsky doesn't want to risk  credibility by pursuing more abstract formulations where researchable fact  is less immediate. Whatever the reason, in this book he has clearly  debunked some of America's most prestigious and self-serving institutions,  which is always a worthwhile read.	2000-07-24
US	49102993	RFL887SYLQ3LE	0853458057	987303415	Press and Cold War	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A radical journalist recalls the Cold War	This is a curiously dispassionate book, at least in tone. Given the author's connection to radical causes over the years and his persecution during the Mc Carthy period, he apparently harbors few grudges. It would seem that his regard for press freedom is stronger than any commitment to radical doctrine, there being precious little of that anywhere in the book. This, of course, is contrary to usual stereotype of the radical journalist as propagated in the popular media. Still, I'm not sure whether his detached style helps or hinders the book's message; nevertheless, it contrasts unexpectedly with the more impassioned and ironical style of Chomsky and Herman, two academics who cover much of the same ground.<br />Most of the text retraces familiar material concerning Cold War journalism. Perhaps the best chapter is the one characterizing the liberal mentality that reported from Vietnam, paticularly during the early years. Skeptical of official versions and wary of top military brass, reporters such as David Halberstam and Neil Sheehan were raised to near heroic dimensions by liberal critics of the war. And while their skepticism toward Pentagon duplicity and a corrupt client government in Saigon never wavered, not once did these fabled journalists question the basic moral correctness of America's involvement. In short, when push came to shove, they refused to follow the logic of their own facts to the appropriate conclusion. No doubt consistency in this regard would have cost them their jobs and maybe careers. Even so, Aronson's account makes clear just how opaque the enemy and their cause was to these quondam rebels and how wedded Halbertam and company were to official illusion. Far from being heroes, their real function, as Aronson emphasizes, was to project the illusions of nation-building into yet further spheres of foreign intervention. A second point of interest comes at the book's conclusion. According to pollsters, reporters and media generally are held in lowpopular esteem; the reason, Aronson observes, is not because of the supposed power of the media, as the political right-wing prefers. Rather it's because the public senses, correctly, that this power is not being exercised in their behalf. Indeed. Marred only by an occasionally flat style, Aronson's is a revealing book by a journalist who demands no less of others in his profession than he does of himself.	2000-07-24
