US	49111640	R34LH2WOM0LLYU	0061032468	201516270	Guardian of the Horizon (Amelia Peabody Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Emersons visit old friends	GUARDIAN OF THE HORIZON takes place during the 'missing years' that period between the events of THE APE THAT GUARDS THE BALANCE and THE FALCON AT THE PORTAL.  The family is lured back to the secret oasis, Nefret's childhood home.  When they arrive they discover that the intervening years have not been good.  Naturally there are plenty of hidden agendas, false identities, harrowing escapes and dramatic rescues awaiting them there.  While sorting out the messsy internal politics of the Oasis Ramses manages to get his heart broken and Amelia once again deals with her elusive but persistent 'Master Criminal'.    This novel bridges the earlier and later novels of the series.  In the early novels Amelia and Emerson where the 'whole show', they were involved in the all the action and were the romantic leads as well.  Ramses and later Nefret and David made only sporatic appearances.  In the later novels the younger generation comes more to the fore on both the action and romance fronts.  In THE GUARDIAN OF THE HORIZON David is absent for most of the time but his romance is definitely focused on in the early chapters.  Ramses begins to take on a more active role in all areas.      This is, as is the rest of the series, a thoroughly enjoyable read.  The writing is clever, the style charming, the action is exciting, the plot has plenty of twists and surprises even though the ultimate triumph of the Emersons is never in doubt.  There are flaws, however, Ramses romance does seem to break the flow of the story and Nefret's passivity does not seem to be in character.  Despite these problems this is a definite must read for fans of the series.  For those unfamiliar with this series though, this is NOT the place to start, go back to the beginning and enjoy.	2005-08-22
US	49111640	RRKAQ1EW8UAOR	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Our lad grows up a bit	GOBLET OF FIRE (GOF) opens as Harry is once again trapped at the Dursleys' waiting for school to begin.  He gets sprung early by the Weasleys to attend the Quidditch World Cup, but not before the Dursley and Weasley families meet with hilarious results.  The World Cup is exciting but the celebration ends on an ominous note.<br /><br />Once at school Harry and friends learn that there will be a yearlong competition, the Triwizard Tournament involving two other schools.  As the competition progresses it becomes apparent that there are those who have goals beyond fostering ties in the wizarding community.  The ending is dramatic, foreshadowing future events.<br /><br />This is the fourth book in the series, if you are a fan of the series this is a must read, although I would not recommend this for the very young.  If you are not yeat a fan definitely begin at the beginning and enjoy!	2005-08-22
US	49111640	R2UCA99C2CVRWI	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	WOW!  Totally worth the wait	I ordered this book months ago, waited to get into line for 3 hours, stood in line for another 30 minutes to pick up my copy and then stood in line to pay for it long enough to read most of ths first chapter.  Even though I was old enough to be the parent (or even grandparent) of some of the others in line I felt it was worth it all!    I just finished reading and dried my tears...which is all the spoiler you'll get here! This is wonderful, darker than the earlier books and definitely not for some of the youngest fans. This one would definitely also be best appreciated by those who had read all of the earlier books.    The action starts in a very lighthearted manner as the Muggle and Magical Worlds leaders meet to cope with the turmoil caused by He Who Must Not Be Named.  This is an absolutely hysterical scene (and one I hope makes it into the movie).  From there we get a glimpse of how the Dark side is progressing and then on to Privet Drive.  Harry is hoping to be released early this year from his visit 'home'.  Dumbledore arrives and proceeds to very politely bully the Dursleys into submission (another scene that I hope makes it into the movie).      We are then treated to visits to the Burrow, Diagon and Knock Turn Alleys before returning to Hogwarts.  Many characters from previous books return, friend and foe alike.  We are also given more information into the backgrounds of Voldemort and company.  On a happier note, romance blooms, though of course not without a few bumps along the way.  There is also plenty of action, including violence, some rather mature themes (again not for the youngest fans) and questions are left to, hopefully, be resolved in the next one....JK write faster!	2005-07-16
US	49111640	R2K12BKM9LTJPV	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Appearances can be deceiving	As this third book in the series opens Harry has to deal with not only the Dursleys but also with other obnoxious relatives.  Unfortunately for them, Harry is now 13 and no longer a child who will tolerate being bullied...he is now a teenager whose normal adolescent outbursts take on a whole new dimension.  After being thoroughly provoked Harry loses his temper and control of his magical abilities.  He flees Privet Drive  fully expecting to be severely punished by the Ministery for Magic for his actions,  but instead is allowed to spend the rest of his vacation in peace at Diagon Alley.  He eventually discovers why he has been treated so leniently - Sirius Black has escaped from Azkaban and is believed to be seeking revenge on Harry.      In order to protect the students at Hogwarts and Harry in particular guards are posted at the school but still incidents happen.  Harry, Hermonine and Ron soon find themselves defending one of Hagrid's pets, finding where one of their new teachers disappears to every few weeks, as well as dealing with the more usual teenager problems of strained friendships, bullies, unreasonable school rules and impossible teachers.  By the end of the year they have learned that they should question what they know and have discovered that they are capable of more than they had ever dreamed.    As always with this series the action is almost nonstop, the characters are engaging and the entire magical world Rowling has created makes the reader anxiously wait for the next installment.	2005-07-10
US	49111640	R86RL0Q9S3JX6	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Harry's second year at Hogwarts....	did not get off to the best of starts.  He and his best friend missed the train and instead of waiting for help to arrive stole a car to get to school.  It wasn't as though Harry had not been warned after all, a house elf had told him that he should not return to school, but Harry had all he could take of the Muggle relatives he lived with.  Not returning to Hogwarts was just unthinkable!<br /><br />Unfortunately things did not improve as the year progressed.  It seemed as though someone was stalking the residents of Hogwarts, casting terrible spells and causing all sorts of trouble and the clues all seemed to point to Harry.  Just who was the 'heir to Slytherin'?  What was in the Chamber of Secrets and where was it?  Who or what was stalking the students?  What was that voice that only Harry could hear?<br /><br />This is the second book in the Harry Potter series.  It could be read and enjoyed by itself but I would recommend reading the books in order for the full experience.  As with the first book the world of Hogwarts is enchanting (no pun intended), the characters are engaging and the mysteries will keep the reader guessing until the last page.	2005-07-08
US	49111640	R13SCJW96G7OWZ	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enter into the world of magic and wonder....	far removed from the mundane life of the Muggles on Privet Drive.<br /><br />This is the first book of the Harry Potter series, which, if you have been living on another planet or in a coma for the past 8 years, is about an 11 year old boy named Harry who just happens to discover one day that he is a wizard.  Since he has been living with his horrible aunt and uncle and their throughly rotten son ever since he could remember Harry was delighted that being  wizard meant that he could go to Hogwarts, the school for witches and wizards.  Even though he knew nothing about the school or even the world of magic anything had to be better than where he was...didn't it?<br /><br />Harry soon discovered that the world of magic had many delights and just as many dangers.  He also found friends and people that valued him both for what and who he was.  With his new found friends Harry began to unravel mysteries that had been set into motion before he was born and face dangers that he had never even dreamed of.<br /><br />This series is wildly popular for some very good reasons.  It is well written, amazingly well plotted and just a great story.  Even though the description states that this is for 9 to 12 year olds I have found it fascinating and I am old enough to have a grandchild in the target audience.  If you are one of the few people left on this planet who has not read this yet get a copy and read it NOW.	2005-07-06
US	49111640	R1PB1CHUMYK9Z3	0451200187	339802493	Nemesis (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Verity means truth.....	and Miss Marple is seeking the truth about the long ago tragic death of a young woman named Verity. <br /> <br />While on vacation last year Jane Marple had met fellow traveler Jason Rafiel.  Together they solved a crime (CARIBBEAN MYSTERY) and then passed out of each other's lives - or so Miss Marple thought.  She was quite surprised to find that he had left her a bequest in his will.  She was even more surprised to find what the bequest was amd what Mr. Rafiel requested that she do.  It seemed that his only son had been charged with the murder of a young woman years before, a young woman named Verity, and Mr. Rafiel wanted to truth of come out once and for all. <br /> <br />Soon Miss Marple was on the trail of this long ago crime, set to act in the role that Mr. Rafiel had cast her, the role of 'Nemesis' - bringer of justice.  Her task is further complicated by the vagueness of her instructions.  Mr. Rafiel has not given her more than the barest of clues as to what he wants her to accomplish or to who is enemy or ally on her quest. <br /> <br />As always with a Christie novel the clues are all there for the reader to follow but the plot twists and turns to challenge the reader to arrive at the solution ahead of Miss Marple.	2005-07-06
US	49111640	R3RT5B7RR8GRGR	0451199928	168746734	A Caribbean Mystery (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You can take Miss Marple out of the village ....	but you can't stop murders from following.    Jane Marple had been quite ill, her doctor had recommended a vacation to a warmer climate and her kind nephew, wealthy Raymond West had obligingly sent her out to the West Indies to recuperate.  Miss Marple found the new surroundings both comfortable and exotic but also just a bit boring.  At least until the murders began.    Soon the village parallels began to surface as past sins came to light.  Naturally the quiet old lady in the background managed to arrive at the answers first.    This 1964 novel has worn well with only just a few comments that would be judged politcally incorrect today dating it just slightly.  This one also leads into the 1971 NEMESIS by introducing wealthy invalid and kindred spirit, Jason Rafiel.    Despite the exotic location this is very much a \\"Jane Marple cozy\\".  The resort hotel, guests and staff take the place of the usual village and residents.  As always with a Christie mystery the clues are all there for the reader to follow but the plot twists and turns to make it a challenge to arrive at the solution before Miss Marple.	2005-07-05
US	49111640	R3FZMRCMXLVMP5	0553258524	601203914	Dragonsong (Volume One of the Harper Hall Trilogy)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Into the Harper Hall	Tall, gangly Menolly of Half Circle Sea Hold had helped the old Harper, Petiron teach the younger children and had even composed some music that Petiron had forwarded to the Masterharper for evaluation.  When the Harper had died Menolly took over his teaching duties until a new Harper could be summoned.  Under the usual course of events the next step would be for this talented youngster to be sent to the Harper Hall for further training but this was a most unusual case.  Traditionally boys left as apprentices, girls stayed home and Menolly was nont only a girl but the daughter of Sea Holder Yanus, the very conservative Lord of the most traditional Hold in all of Pern.    Under her parents direction, Menolly did not call attention to herself when the new Harper arrived and the entire Hold conspired to keep the shameful secret that a mere girl had been instructing the children.  Banished to the kitchens Menolly suffered an accident there that seemed to put an end to her ever making music again.  In dispair she ran away from her home in search of anything but the misery she found there.  While on her own Menolly found that she had many more talents and opportunities than she had ever imagined.    This 1976 coming-of-age novel is part of the long running Pern series and takes place at same time as THE WHITE DRAGON.  The focus this time is not on dragons and their riders but instead on life for those who are not in the aristocracy of the weyrs.  This book could be enjoyed in itself but would make much more sense to someone who was at least familiar with the Pern series.	2005-07-02
US	49111640	R2ND72BWYI2Y8X	0312981643	274606132	They Came to Baghdad	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Young adventuress off to see the world	This 1951 novel is highly reminiscent of some of Christie's earlier works like THE MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT or the Tommy and Tuppence adventures as well as similiarities to the later PASSENGER TO FRANKFURT.  None of Christie's usual detectives like Poirot or Miss Marple appear, nor does it follow her usual 'cozy' formula. <br /> <br />The story opens with Victoria Jones finding herself once again between jobs.  It seems that Victoria is not very good at her job of shorthand/typist but what she lacks in clerical skills she makes up for in her skill at lying.  While sitting in the park considering her options she meets a charming young man who is just perfect except that he is leaving for Baghdad shortly.  Victoria soon decides that this young man is the one for her at sets out to follow him to Iraq.  She overcomes the obstacles of lack of funds and not knowing her young man's last name but soon finds herself involved in a vast international conspiracy. <br /> <br />As always with a Christie book the clues are all fairly laid out for the reader to follow but there are many twists and surprises along the way to keep the reader entertained. <br /> <br />This adventure has much in common with Elizabeth Peters works, lots of action, improbable situations and more than a touch of romance.	2005-07-01
US	49111640	R3DGIQ8P03IAHP	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This is one of those books that you may finish reading but.....	you will never finish thinking about. <br /> <br />Dan Davis is a very talented young engineer.  His inventions are works of genius, practical, reliable and capable of making life in general much easier.  Unfortunately his talents in selecting business partners and girlfriends aren't nearly as good.   <br /> <br />Dan and his friend/partner Miles have started an engineering firm capitializing on Dan's inventions and Miles' business talents.  They have been quite successful, their Hired Girl robot is in demand and life is quite promising for Miles, Dan and their families, Miles' stepdaughter Ricky and Dan's cat Pete.  Their business has been so good that they have hired a secretary/assistant Belle, to handle the day-to-day details....big mistake. <br /> <br />The inevitable love triangle leads to an end of a friendship and business and the beginning of a long strange tale of time-travel and paradoxes. <br /> <br />This is one of my favorite novels by my favorite author.  It is amazing at how many RAH predictions, made in 1957, about 2000 come to pass.  ATM's, CAD's automatic vacuums (Roombas), velcro have all become part of the 21st century but were still farfetched ideas when I first read this novel in the early 70's. <br /> <br />For fans of RAH many of his favorite themes are present in this story, time travel, cats, societal changes, elimination of household drugery and May/December relationships (with just a hint of incest). It also shows yet again that although RAH might love and revere women he just can't seem to treat them as equals.	2005-06-29
US	49111640	R33NNVG6EN94UE	0312981295	237928110	Sparkling Cyanide (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A treat for Col. Race fans	Charming socialite Rosemary Barton had committed suicide during her birthday party.  Or had she been murdered?  She had been a bit depressed after a prolonged bout of the flu but Rosemary had everything to live for, she was young, rich, had both a devoted husband and a lover.  And why choose a busy glamorous restaurant during a dinner party held in her honor?  Over the next few months doubts began to surface over Rosemary's death, but if she had been murdered then who could have done it but a guest at her party -  her husband, adoring younger sister, loyal secretary, friend, her lover or his unsuspecting wife?  Then the second murder happened.....    This 1943 mystery (also published as REMEMBERED DEATH) is told from the points of view of starting with Iris, Rosemary's younger sister, shifting to the other members of the ill-fated dinner party.  The detective called in here to solve the crime is the mysterious Col. Race.        As always with a Christie novel the clues are all fairly laid out for the reader to follow, the mystery is clever with some interesting twists and turns along the way.	2005-06-27
US	49111640	RHZ3MSR651XBB	0060530456	15787717	The Secret Symbols of the Dollar Bill: A Closer Look at the Hidden Magic and Meaning of the Money You Use Every Day	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Interesting way to pass some time	The author has 100 points (factoids) about the one dollar bill.  He focuses on the various symbols found on this familiar item, the possible signficance of this symbols, when and why they first appeared etc.  Some of this information is aleady quite well known, such as the fact that many of government officals in the past and present are Masons and that many of our nation's symbols have a basis in Masonic tradition.  Other items are not as well known, such as the extensive (according to the author) use of numerology. <br /> <br />I found the book interesting but was a bit frustrated by the format.  Instead of a regular narrative divided into chapters with subheadings the author has 100 numbered sections of one or more short paragraphs giving the book the look and feel of a rough draft. <br /> <br />The author also has a tendancy to state his point and then simply move on.  At the end of the book I had learned several intriguing tidbits but was left wondering 'so what?'.   <br /> <br />If you would like to find a way to spend a few hours and pickup a few factoids to toss out then get this book, a dollar bill and a ruler and enjoy.  Don't be surprised though if after dazzling your friends by displaying unsuspected triangles and pointing out the repetitions of various numbers and symbols if you are not asked what is the point to all this.	2005-06-27
US	49111640	R2BZ6FA2SE6YOO	0451201191	393740026	A Murder is Announced (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	"You are cordially invited to a murder at Little Paddocks this evening"	This announcement in the morning paper was the main topic of discussion in the village, especially at Little Paddocks.  No one knew who had placed this absurd announcement, it had to be a joke but at the appointed hour friends and neighbors just happened to drop by....and since this is a Christie novel, a murder did occur.<br /><br />This 1950 novel is an interesting look at village life in postwar England.  The housing shortages, food rationing (and resulting underground trading), the influx of foreigners and the English themselves left uncertain at how to cope with the postwar world.  Little Paddocks was a slice of this new world, the owner, Letty Blacklock had opened her home to a childhood friend, two young distant relatives, a boarder and hired a displaced person as a cook/housekeeper.<br /><br />Fortunately for all concerned Jane Marple was visiting nearby and was soon unraveling all the little village mysteries - just who was the strange man seen around town, why did Miss Blacklock wear those necklaces, how was the victim at Little Paddocks and why was he there and why was there a second murder?<br /><br />This is one of my favorite novels, as always with Christie the clues are all there but the plot twists and turns so much that it would be a rare reader indeed who could arrive at the answers before Miss Marple reveals all.	2005-06-27
US	49111640	R2RMUA90NE1HB6	0425093255	973285060	Five Little Pigs (Also published as Murder In Retrospect)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dame Agatha and her twisted nursery rhymes!	This 1941 novel opens with a young woman asking Poirot to solve a crime that occurred 16 years before.  She, understandably enough, would like to know if her mother really had killed her father.  Sympathetic and intrigued, Poirot agrees to look into the matter.  He finds that there were five suspects, the little piggy who went to market, the one who stayed home, the one who had roast beef, the one who had none and the one who cried all the way home.  One of these had killed but which one?  All the stories conflicted some insisting that the wife had committed the murder, others equally certain that she had not.   <br /> <br />In the end of course Poirot is triumphant but not until he has followed a long cold twisting tale of marital relations, infidelities, unrequited love, misguided loyalties, guilt and stormy adolescence. <br /> <br />As always Christie has left the clues available for the reader to follow but has plotted such a tight and clever mystery that it would be a challenge to arrive at the solution before Poirot.  It is also a statement to the era the novel was written (the '40's) and Christie's skill and style that a story about adultery has absolutely no overt sex scenes. <br /> <br />This novel was also previously released in the US as MURDER IN RETROSPECT.	2005-06-26
US	49111640	REKLCKBRFODXZ	0312972962	185709915	Roman Blood: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Step back in time to mean streets of ancient Rome....	and join Gordianus the Finder as he hunts through those twisting, winding streets to aid Cicero (yes, that Cicero). <br /> <br />Set in 80 BC, during the dictatorship of Sulla, Gordianus is hired by a young orator named Cicero to investigate a case, Sextus Roscius, a gentleman farmer, is accused of the murder of his father.  Gordianus is soon plunged into the not so glamorous side of ancient Rome, a Rome of hired killers, corrupt government, brothels and home invasions.  A world where a dying man's screams only cause good citizens to cover their ears and hide behind their barred doors. <br /> <br />The clues to the mystery of this novel are all there for the reader to follow but twist and turn so that it would be a challenge to solve the crime before Gordianus.  The real treat to this story is not the mystery, although it is engaging, but rather the glimpse into the ancient world.  Even though Gordianus has many of the same concerns of a modern day citizen, (crime in the streets, corruption in government, stretching the income to cover expenses) but he is very much a man of his times.  Gordianus must contend with the social niceties of how a free citizen should treat a slave, his own and those belonging to others, finding his way through a city that has no maps, nor even any names on most of the streets, streets where a citizen could be killed at any time by a common thief, in a vendetta with a rival family or even at the request of the government.  Saylor's descriptions of the settings and characters are fascinating, they bring this long gone time a place alive in an interesting and entertaining manner. <br /> <br />This is the first of the ROMA SUB ROSA series, and I cannot wait to get my hands on the next in the series.	2005-06-24
US	49111640	R2YWL9J7J3B6U1	0312981686	397579205	Destination Unknown (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Rare Christie thriller	This 1955 novel is a departure from her more well known cosy series books.  This one has none of her more familiar characters like Poirot or Marple, the setting is mostly the North African desert and centers on a James Bond type conspiracy complete with secret hideout and mysterious, fabulously wealthy mastermind. <br /> <br />Hilary Craven has been defeated by life, her daughter has died, her husband has left her and she has nothing left to live for.  She has decided to leave England and in an out-of-the-way spot in Morocco end it all.  Circumstances intervene and instead of a quiet end in a lonely hotel room Hilary finds herself cast in the role of secret agent.   <br /> <br />This is a rather standard thriller type novel.  Although a departure from Christie's usual fare there are still many of her more familiar motifs.  The 'hero' is a single woman off on a adventure (like MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT), there is also a 'master criminal' (like the Tommy and Tuppence series or PASSENGER TO FRANKFURT) and much of the action takes place in an isolated, contained environment.  As always in Christie's work the clues are all there for the reader to follow right up to the surprise ending.	2005-06-22
US	49111640	R3E8K6IHQXF76O	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another hit from Dan Brown	This 2001 thriller from Dan Brown is, like ANGELS AND DEMONS and THE DAVINCI CODE, full of unexpected twists and turns sure to keep a reader in danger of missing meals, appointments and reading far into the night.<br /><br />The plot centers on Americans this time mostly those in power in Washington.  Ambitious Senator Sexton would like to be the next occupant of the White House.  This is a very real possibility since the current occupant, Zachery Herney has been slipping in the polls lately and has lately seem to withdraw from the campaign.  Sexton has been pressing his attack on Herney's beloved NASA and the public has been increasingly in agreement with him.<br /><br />Soon though the action shifts from the corridors of power in the Capitol to the Artic.  NASA has found a meteor embedded in a glacier.  A most remarkable meteor.  Soon Sexton's estranged daughter Rachel is swept up into the action.  The action picks up speed and races along on land, in the air, on and under the water  making incredible plot twists along the way mixing Washington intrigue and scandal with scientific discovery, lies and suspense.<br /><br />The only place this novel seems to falter is at the end.  The final chapter seems to have been dashed off and is definitely not up to the standards of the rest of the book.<br /><br />That aside, this is a great read and will leave the reader searching for another novel from Brown.	2005-06-22
US	49111640	RV2DGOP48JOB1	074325998X	759058813	For Us, The Living: A Comedy of Customs	Books	4	6	6	N	N	if you are a Heinlein fan 0 if you are not and....	if this is the first Heinlein book you have ever read it'll probably be your last. <br /> <br />This is proported to be the first Heinlein novel, one that the Heinlein's had destroyed (that should be a clue) as he was clearing up his estate at the end of his career.  A copy was located later, hence this novel. <br /> <br />The basic story is that a young navy pilot, Perry, was killed in a car accident in 1939.  He 'woke' in 2086 to a whole new society, one that took some serious getting used to.  He discovered, among other things, a whole new outlook in morals, economics and dazzling new technologies.  The 'action' such as it is centers on his adjustments to his new circumstances and explanations of them to him. <br /> <br />This is very much a first effort sort of book, there is way too much talking and not enough doing.  For fans of Heinlein, and no one else should even think of reading this, the enjoyment comes from spotting the various themes that will be found in later works, i.e., equality of women, casual nudity, open marriage, various new technologies to name a few.  It could even be argued that Perry is in some ways a forefather of Lazarus Long.  It is interesting to see how accurate some of these predictions (written in 1939) are; duration and outcome of WWII, some technologies, united Europe and others.  <br /> <br />In short this is interesting for a Heinlein fan but anyone else would be much better served by reading one of his later works, (STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND, THE MOON IS A HARSH MISTRESS, I WILL FEAR NO EVIL etc).	2005-06-09
US	49111640	R15FT6QAJ1K2ZR	0451199898	276242603	The Mirror Crack'd (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	St. Mary Mead in the '60's & Christie in her prime	Life has begun to change in St. Mary Mead, or has it?  A new housing development has brought many new faces to the sleepy little village along with a new supermarket.  Gossington Hall (THE BODY IN THE LIBRARY) has been sold to a film star and many old friends have moved away or died.  Miss Marple is beginning to feel her years and  now must have live-in help (thoughtfully supplied by nephew Raymond West).  Some things however, remain the same.  The new arrivals have the same problems and flaws as the old with murder as the inevitable result.  Although forbidden to garden and no longer as adept at knitting Jane Marple is still quite capable to ferreting out the solution when a young woman is killed in a failed attempt in the film star's life. <br /> <br />For Christie fans, particularly Miss Marple devotees this is a must read.  It is nice to catch up on village life, visit with some old friends and meet some new ones.  It is particularly comforting to see that Miss Marple is doing well and up to her old tricks of beating the police to the punch.  Although this is part of a series this cozy mystery could be enjoyed by itself. <br /> <br />As always Christie has played fair with the reader, all the clues  are presented for the reader to follow, there are no exotic poisons nor last minute surprise suspects (though there is a rather sneaky far fetched coincidence it is only a red herring).	2005-06-04
US	49111640	R93FZQHGMK3GU	0385513755	315416156	The Da Vinci Code: Special Illustrated Edition	Books	5	4	5	N	N	So what is all the fuss about?	This is a great read!  The subject is intriguing, the characters engaging, the action is exciting, the mystery well plotted and fairly laid out...the whole thing is just well written and worthly of all the acclaim it has received.<br /><br />Robert Langdon (ANGELS AND DEMONS) finds himself involved in yet another exciting adventure that puts him at odds with established religion.  He is soon on the trail of a 2000 year old conspiracy that takes him across Europe pursued by the usual bad guys intent on his demise.  What elevates this from the usual thriller type novels that populate airport book kiosks is that Brown has written this one so well.  There's layer upon layer to this mystery, imaginative and well researched which makes this one just fun to read.<br /><br />Much of the controversy surrounding this has centered on its attack on established religion.  This is a work of fiction, a work that does have some basis in fact (the horizon line in the Mona Lisa isn't level) but a work of fiction all the same.  Anyone who's faith is threatened by this book has bigger problems than this book.<br /><br />Read this book and ENJOY!  The illustrated edition saves a lot of time looking things up, and is just great to look at in anycase which adds to the experience.	2005-06-02
US	49111640	R3NQC6FBFZB9SC	0345460065	428222705	The Romanov Prophecy: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	If you liked the DaVinci Code....	you will probably like this one.  It is not as complex or as well written as TDVC but it's still pretty good. <br /> <br />The plot revolves around the return of the Romanov dynasty to modern day Russia.  An American law firm has become involved in this process, one of their representatives stumbles upon a prophecy by Rasputin concerning this.  The story quicky develops into a rather standard thriller, our hero is threatened, chased and attacked, escaping only by a combination of chance and innate superiority aided by the obligatory beautiful woman.  There are many twists, turns and betrayals with good of course triumphant in the end. <br /> <br />While the premise is intriguing, and the insights into modern day Russia interesting the book is not without flaws.  The main characters are well done but many of the others are cardboard at best.  The action is exciting but, as is common with this type of book, a bit farfetched to say the least.  The overall effect is good, however, and will keep you turning pages to see what is going to happen next. <br /> <br />This book will not bring about world peace, change your life or make you thin.  It is a thoroughly enjoyable way to spend a few hours.	2005-06-02
US	49111640	R39H438WP25GYG	0804107688	301448133	Death of a Hussy (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The continuing adventures of Hamish Macbeth	Constable Macbeth has an unusual problem, he is too good at his job.  Crime in the village is down, way down mostly because Macbeth is very good at his job.  Unfortunately for Macbeth, this coupled with the fact that his superiors suspect (rightly) that he is better at his job than they, has led to his assignment to a larger town.  Macbeth is miserable there and the village of Lochdubh is miserable without him.  What to do?  New village resident Maggie Baird has a suggestion, Lochdubh needs a crime wave, one that can only be checked by Macbeth.  Once Macbeth returns home the crime rate does return with yet another murder in this sleepy little town. <br /> <br />This is another in the Hamish Macbeth series of cozy mysteries.  We are again treated to scenes of village life and given the chance to spend some time with the charming young constable.  Of course there is a little more progress, of a sort, into the stumbling romance of Hamish and Priscilla and oh yes, there is this little murder thing. <br /> <br />The only complaint I have about this one is that it's a bit short (150 pages).  I would have enjoyed a couple more twists to the plot and maybe a bit more time in Lochdubh, especially with Hamish and Priscilla.	2005-06-01
US	49111640	R3C4N4AT6OL4S0	0446607142	874904507	Death of a Cad (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The further adventures of Hamish Macbeth	This is the second book of the Hamish Macbeth series, picking up a few months after THE DEATH OF A GOSSIP. <br /> <br />The story opens as Priscilla Halburton-Smithe is driving her new fiance home to Lochdubh for a weekend houseparty at her parents' house.  Tensions soon develop at the party, including the inclusion (or intrusion depending on your point of view) of local constable Macbeth into the group.  Naturally there is soon a death to investigate, one that of course confuses all but our hero. <br /> <br />This is very much in the long tradition of cozy series mystery.  The murder victim richly deserves his fate, the characters of those involved is more important than the action, and there is a large cast of recurring characters.  Our hero manages to solve the crime while overcoming the incompetance of his superiors.  There is even an ongoing romance. <br /> <br />If 'cozies' are your cup of tea you will definitely enjoy this series and will want to read them all. <br />	2005-06-01
US	49111640	R2M89FUTUPLM9U	0743488601	648899256	1: Grantville Gazette	Books	4	5	5	N	N	for fans of the series, 2 (or less) for anyone else	This is based on the 1632 series.  For fans of this wonderful series THE GRANTVILLE GAZETTE is a great little 'extra'.  It focuses on this alternate universe, several of the main characters appear in this anthology but this volume is not essential to the mainstream of the series. There are four short stories and three serious articles based on this universe.  If you are not already familiar with this series you will have only a vague idea about what is going on and probably not enjoy this book at all.<br /><br />The short stories touch on some of the characters and events already established in this series.  These and the non-fiction articles all explore aspects of the 20th-century-town-transported-to-the-17th-century premise that have not been dealt with in the main body of work.<br /><br />This is an enjoyable read for fans of the series but I'd suggest either getting it from the library or looking for it discounted or used.	2005-05-24
US	49111640	R2WBAWQPM7389M	0441748600	265603571	To Sail Beyond the Sunset	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The continuing adventures of Pixel and Maureen Long	If you don't know who Pixel is read THE CAT WHO WALKS THROUGH WALLS first.  If you don't know who Maureen is read TIME ENOUGH FOR LOVE and THE CAT WHO WALKS THROUGH WALLS.  If you are unfamiliar with the Long family in general read METHUSELAH'S CHILDREN and THE NUMBER OF THE BEAST first.    The story opens with Maureen waking in a strange hotel room with an unknown man, who happens to be dead.  Her day does downhill from there.  As she sits in jail charged with murder she dictates the story of her life beginning with her birth in the late 19th century Missouri and through her current life a couple of thousand years later on a distant planet.    This is the last of Heinlein's novels about Lazarus and his family. Most of the characters from his previous novels make at least cameo appearances.  While it would be possible to enjoy this book by itself knowing the backstories would be better.       As always with Heinlein's work either the reader loves it or hates it.  There seem to be very few inbetween.  Heinlein continues his questioning of society in general with this book, particularly as it relates to family and sexual morals with special emphasis on incest.  Whether a reader loves or hates the  book it will, like all Heinlein's work make the reader re-examine all the rules that he 'knows' are true.	2005-05-23
US	49111640	R3DWVQ1PDCQKNK	0449221393	683164009	Driving Force	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fun read for both mystery lovers and the 'horsie set'	This 1992 mystery focuses, as do all of Francis' books, on some part of the racing industry.  This time it is the horse transport business.  Freddie Croft had been a successful jump jockey (like Francis himself) for many years.  When he retired from racing he began a transport business based from the farm he had inherited in Pixhill, a popular horse training area.  The business had begun to flourish but as the novel opens Croft has discovered that two of his drivers had broken company policy by picking up a hitchhiker who died during the ride.   <br /> <br />As the story progresses Croft's problems increase, he is attacked, kidnapped, his property vandalized, his computer hacked, an employee killed and to add to the aggravation his drivering force is succumbing to the flu that is sweeping the area. <br /> <br />As is the case in all of Francis' work, his hero is a flawed individual, a loner with a secret problem from a dysfunctional family.  He bravely and stoically endures his trials, finds romance and a way to cope with his burden along the way just as Francis' heroes all do.  Despite the formulistic nature of Francis' work he once again manages to breathe life into his characters and to make the story come alive.  Even though a longtime reader of his books knows quite well were the story is going there are always surprises along the way. <br /> <br />This would appeal to fans of mysteries in general as well as horse enthusists.  The mysteries are clever, orginal and fairly laid out with all the necessary clues for the reader to follow.	2005-05-11
US	49111640	R1TTX9K1II9W5R	0515134651	924706235	Straight	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another gem from Francis	A reader knows what they are getting with a Dick Francis book.  The mystery will be well plotted, the hero (usually a jockey or former jockey) will bravely face whatever trials that face him overcoming his troubled past and/or secret sorrow and the action will center around the some part of the racing world. Every once in awhile though a surprise pops up, this time the jockey is thrust into the totally alien world of gems. <br /> <br />Jockey Derek Franklin has been sidelined by a broken ankle, shortly after his brother Grenville is murdered.  As Derek tries to settle the estate he finds himself drawn more and more into his brother's world of finance, gems and quirky little gadgets.  Gradually he begins to sort out the mysteries surrounding Grenville's life and death but soon discovers that there are others who are determined to keep him from the answers.  In the end, of course all is revealed. <br /> <br />This is a well plotted and clever mystery.  The clues are all there for the reader to follow.  The characters are well written, and draw the reader into the story.	2005-05-11
US	49111640	RXYBS8ZQCDBIC	042506803X	416571628	Taken at the Flood (aka There is a Tide...)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Surprises to the very end	While taking refuge in a London Club during an air raid Poirot tries to take his mind off the bombing going on outside by listening to the club bore tell yet another of his endless stories.  Years later the subjects of the story and the bore re-enter Poirot's life as he tries to sort out past fictions from fact to solve more recent murders. <br /> <br />The Cloade family had always relied on Uncle Gordon and his money to make their lives more comfortable.  In post war England life was most uncomfortable so they needed Uncle Gordon (and his money) more than ever.  Unfortunately for them Uncle has married a much younger woman, then died before making provisions for any of them.  Now they needed to ask his young wife and her bother (or IS he her brother?)  for help...or did they? <br /> <br />Surprise twists happen every few pages making what is seemed certain suddenly uncertain - rather like the post war turmoil many of the characters were experiencing.  In typical Christie fashion though, all the clues are there for the reader to ferret out before Poirot reveals all. <br /> <br />Please note that this book is also available as THERE IS A TIDE	2005-05-04
US	49111640	R1LRVOEQG5QW5A	0449130703	24584033	The Number of the Beast	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Lazarus Long rides again!!!	The world is divided into two main groups, those who 'get' Heinlein and those who don't.  If you are a member of the later you will truly hate this book.  If you are a member of the former you will probably enjoy this, just how much depends on how seriously you take your scifi. <br /> <br />The story opens at a faculty party, a respected professor and his daughter are introduced by their hostss to a young man. By the end of the evening the younger couple has decided to elope, the older couple has decided to follow suit.  As they leave the party the two couples are attacked, presumed dead and then things start to get exciting.  Extraterrestials, time machines, government conspiracies, alternate universes, OZ and Lazarus Long (TIME ENOUGHT FOR LOVE) all turn up. <br /> <br />As is common with Heinlein's work the novel questions the conventions of society, monogamy and religion in particular.  NUMBER OF THE BEAST approaches this idea by postulating that what is fiction in one reality is fact in another.   <br /> <br />This is a fun adventure story on the surface but as often happens with Heinlein there are serious themes lurking underneath. <br /> <br />Overall this is a great book, one of my all-time favorites by one of my favorite authors, but it is not without flaws.  At one point the two couples argue at length (about 100 pages) over how to organize their group.  About halfway through the book the story very aburptly switches gears (a common thing in Heinlein's books).  The book also just seems to end as opposed to having an ending.  In general a good editor would have helped but it's still a great read and one that the reader will probably find himself thinking about for years to come.    <br /> <br />	2005-05-03
US	49111640	R303UUHTM1MHS9	0671015451	442230342	Vulcan's Heart (Star Trek)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	You are cordially invited to the wedding of Spock and Saavik	so if you area Spock fan this book is already in the star range, if you are a Spock/Saavik 'shipper' then this must be an automatic 5 plus plus, so why only a three from someone who has been a Spock fan for four decades?  It is nothing against the premise, I am also  a Spock/Saavik fan.  The plot elements are all there, and are all consistent with 'canon' (the original shows/movies), the established characters are handled well, again consistent with 'canon', there are 'tie-ins' to both TOS and TNG episodes that are done well but still the best this long-time fan could give this is 3 stars. <br /> <br />The problem is this overall quality of the writing which is surprising since this same writing team also wrote the much better VULCAN'S FORGE.  VULCAN'S HEART reads as if it was assigned, that the writers were given a list of plot elements to cover and told to turn them into a novel.  The end result needed a good editor to take out the redundancies (we are familiar with pon farr), clean up the punctuation (how many exclamation points does a novel need?) and get some rewrites on a few sections that seemed forced or weak. Also this would have been a better book if it were shorter. <br /> <br />If you are a fan - and who else would read one of these novels? -  especially if you are a Spock fan then this is a must read but too bad such a great premise wasn't handled better.	2005-04-29
US	49111640	R2V1I055Q4XPTT	0671009273	682768231	Vulcan's Forge (Star Trek)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Spock - before and after Kirk	This novel opens in 2296, about a year after Kirk's death/disappearance.  Spock is now captain of Intrepid II and is summoned to assist an old friend, David Rabin.  The two had met many years before on Vulcan.  The novel jumps between to two encounters which have many similiarities.      The action is intense throughout the book, depictions of both the new and familiar characters is handled well.  For Spock fans (which should be just about everyone reading this book) it is a feast of background information on his teenage years and decision to enter the Academy.      The main flaw, in my opinion, was that it drug on a bit.  I think that it would have been better if it were about 50 pages shorter.    The same authors also wrote VULCAN'S HEART two years later, which contains references to this novel.	2005-04-23
US	49111640	RBBQI5WVKFVB	0446607134	306653280	Death of a Gossip (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The beginning of a promising relationship	The is the first of the Hamish MacBeth series.  MacBeth is the young constable of a small village in Scotland.  He is generally thought to be neither very ambitious nor very bright but as the story progresses we begin to wonder if this is an accurate assesment of this young man. <br /> <br />The mystery in this cozy centers on the local fishing school.  An unlikely group of would be anglers have gathered for the current session and, of course, one is murdered.  Naturally MacBeth manages to solve the crime and return the village to its quiet life. <br /> <br />Since this is the first of a series we are given masses of background information that, hopefully, won't all appear in detail in subsequent novels.  All this background competes with the mystery for the reader's attention.  Still, the mystery is clever, the clues are all there for the reader to follow to solve the crime and clear up the other red herring mysteries that have appeared along the way. <br /> <br />Even though there are flaws in this book (a little slow going, way more info on fishing than I'll ever need - or want, too many details) I enjoyed this book.  It was a very pleasant way to spend a couple of hours.  I will definitely be getting others in this series and recommending it to friends.	2005-04-23
US	49111640	R1DO4DZ7T4C9U7	0515138754	804105086	The Cat Who Talked Turkey	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The cat who keeps on keeping on	Jim Qwilleran (Qwill to his friends and Mr. Q to his fans) lives in Moose County (400 miles north of everywhere) with his two Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum.  He writes a twice weekly column for the local paper and happens to be the richest man in the county (if not the state).   <br /> <br />The action centers on the upcoming bicentennial of Brrr, the opening of a new bookstore by Qwill's lady friend, a new show by  Qwill and various other local activities.  Oh yes a body turns up on the beach.   <br /> <br />The body is largely ignored during the book, more emphasis is placed on the possibility of mischief (or worse) by a young woman and her companion but the majority of the focus is on Moose County life. <br /> <br />This is the twenty sixth 'Cat Who' mystery and sadly this kitty is beginning to show his age a bit.  But, as with a beloved aged pet, we are not ready to say goodbye yet.  If you are new to the series this is not the best place to start. If you are a fan of the series it is always nice to visit old friends.  For anyone it is a pleasant way to spend a couple of hours.	2005-03-15
US	49111640	R20ZEO4398WRNI	0060807687	861834815	The return of Jeeves	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What Jeeves did while Bertie was away.....	Bertie Wooster has gone off to school in an attempt to learn how to fend for himself, (which in Bertie's case meant locating and donning his own socks).      Jeeves has gone to the household of the Earl of Towcester, a young gentleman as much in need of Jeeves as Bertie.  The Earl has a large estate, a fiancee, a sister and brother-in-law and a desperate need for ready cash.  He and Jeeves attempt to remedy this problem by becoming turf accountants (bookies to us Americans).  Naturally this only makes matters worse.      As one would expect in a Wodehouse novel the situation rapidly becomes absurd, the long lost appear, romance blooms and goes awry, wrong conclusions are reached and a wonderful time is had by all.    This is a hilarious story, perfect escapism for those times when the world begins to get too serious.	2005-02-28
US	49111640	RHX5VNU8H7JM7	0312981619	862557850	Death Comes As the End	Books	4	4	5	N	N	And now for something completely different...	this is the only Christie mystery not set in the present day.   <br /> <br />DEATH COMES AS THE END is set in ancient Egypt, a time and place that Christie was familiar with due to her husband, an Egyptologist.  Each year Christie would accompany him to work on his latest 'dig'.  As a result Christie had not only first hand knowledge of the period but also access to leading experts in the field.   <br /> <br />The story centers on Renisenb, a young widow who has returned to her father's house after the death of her husband.  Just as she is settling into the household when her father returns from a business trip with a young concubine.  The family is shocked and soon feel threatened by the newcomer.  In typical Christie fashion a body soon appears, followed by another and then another. <br /> <br />In may ways this is very much like a more familiar Christie story, the dysfunctional family (CROOKED HOUSE, 4:50 FROM PADDINGTON, POCKET FULL OF RYE).  There is rather more romance than is usually found in Christie's mysteries.  Renisenb's mourning and indecision between two suitors is more typical of the romances Christie wrote as Mary Westmacott.  The characters do sound and act very much like Christie's usual mid twentieth century English middle class but since no one really knows just how the ancient Egyptian spoke or thought this characterization is as good as any. <br /> <br />As is usual with a Christie the clues are all there for the reader to find, the ending is logical but in this one a bit predictable.  It is not quite as good as many of her other novels but even a mediocre Christie is better than most writers best work.	2005-02-28
US	49111640	R31UQ7KVZA9LX6	0441810764	163941388	Time Enough for Love	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Warning:  Reading this book will make you THINK...	it will haunt you and follow you for years to come.  If you are unwilling to question the way you look at yourself and your society do not read this book. <br /> <br />This is the further adventures of Lazarus Long, AKA Woodrow Smith, Aaron Sheffield etc.  who has figured in other Heinlein stories.  He is a member of the Howard families, a group of people who have been selectively bred for longevity.  The story picks up long after humanity had traveled to the stars (long after many of Heinlein's previous works).  Lazarus has returned home to die, he is tired and convinced that in his 2000+ years of life has 'done it all'.  His decendants are not ready to see him go and try to convince him to rejuvenate again.  He relates stories of his past and comments on what he has learned along the way. <br /> <br />The novel switches among various stories from Lazarus' past and the 'present', punctuated with his observations on life in general. <br /> <br />If you are a Heinlein fan this may be the best book you have ever read.  If you are unfamiliar with Heinlein you might enjoy this more if you start with some of his earlier works.  This one can stand alone but would make more sense if you have read some of the Future History stories.   <br /> <br />As with almost all of Heinlein's work this one shifts gears along the way, starting as one story and ending as another.  Also Heinlein has a tendency to go off on tangents.  If you are a fan this is delightful, if not you may find yourself wondering how this author managed to avoid an editor. <br /> <br />This book will force you to think.  Think about yourself, your society, your morals and all those things that you know are true. It should be added to Lazarus Long's list of things that everyone should do before they die.	2005-02-06
US	49111640	R5SIGM2BK5K5A	0061043532	776161189	Clouds of Witness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The further adventures of Lord Peter	Lord Peter needed to get away after the stresses he encountered solving a case a few weeks earlier (Whose Body?).  He and Bunter went to the wilds of Corsica to relax.  On their way back to civilization they discover that while they were gone the fiance of Lord Peter's sister, Lady Mary was murdered.  Worse, the murder took place at a shooting party hosted by their older brother, Gerald the Duke of Denver.  Worse still Gerald is the prime suspect!   <br /> <br />Peter and Bunter hurry home to try to solve the crime only to find that there are many mysteries about what happened that night.  Why isn't Mary more upset about the death of her fiance?  Why was their engagement called off that very night?  Where exactly was Gerald that evening?  Who left a suitcase in the conservatory?  <br /> <br />Gradually Peter begins to find answers to the various questions and raise a few more along the way.  He and Bunter of course eventually save the day but not before having a few adventures along the way.   <br /> <br />This is an exciting mystery, it is well plotted and fairly laid out, all the clues are there for the reader.  There are a few coincidences but nothing that overly strains possiblities.  For fans of the series we are treated to a lot more insight into that wonderfully eccentric Wimsey family.   <br /> <br />So why four stars instead of five?  First the book does tend to drag just a bit in places.  Compared to later books in the series this is one of the lesser works.  If you are a fan of the series this is a must read.  I would also recommend it if you are a fan of mysteries of the '20's and '30's definitely read this one.	2004-12-09
US	49111640	R2UXYMW7KRQNEL	031299138X	940891709	A Presumption of Death: A New Lord Peter Wimsey/Harriet Vane Mystery (Lord Peter Wimsey/Harriet Vane Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not quite up to the original but.....	still an enjoyable visit with old friends.    It is the early days of WWII, Harriet Vane has evacuated her London household, plus her niece and nephew to Talboys, her country house.  Lord Peter and Bunter are away on an assignment for the foreign office.  Harriet is busy coping with the war time rationing of food and clothing as well as learning the subtle nuances of village life when she is asked to assist the village constable with a murder investigation.      Many of the characters introduced in Sayers original novels return, including the Wimsey clan and several of the villagers.  Walsh has stayed true to the original characters but she is not Sayers.  There are inconsistencies in the details of the family,  (a 'missing' child, the wrong age for another) and the village residents no longer speak in dialects.  There are also editing errors (the Ruddles are chapel one minute and church the next, names are changed, people are two places at once etc).  Also Walsh's style is different than Sayers, not as detailed or as witty.  The mystery is not quite as intricrately plotted as Sayers.      Despite these shortcomings it is still a worthly successor to the original series and a throughly enjoyable read.	2004-12-03
US	49111640	R3CPDB5A1ZMREO	0312981627	987673311	Ordeal by Innocence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Atypical Christie......	in that it is not one of her 'series' (Poirot/Marple etc) and it is also not up to her usual standards. <br /> <br />Dr. Arthur Calgary has just returned from an expedition to Antartica.  Shortly before he left he gave a ride to a young man, Jacko Argyle who was later convicted of a murder. Jacko protested his innocence but was unable to find the stranger who gave him a ride. Dr. Calgary was finally able to clear Jacko of the crime, but unfortunately Jacko had died in prison.  Now all that clearing his name accomplished was leave the rest of the family under suspicion. <br /> <br />Although this novel does not feature any of Christie's repeat characters it does cover some familiar ground, a childless woman adopting a large brood of children, murder within the family, a domineering parent and amnesia to name a few.  There are other of Christie's works that handle these elements better. <br /> <br />If you are a Christie fan you'll enjoy this.  If you are looking for your first Christie you'll be better served to look elsewhere but even a mediocre Christie is better that most other's best work.	2004-11-30
US	49111640	RXKU9PWXELX38	0812589092	938198923	Too Many Targets (The Avengers)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Let's go visit some old friends....	most of the Avengers crowd is here - Dr. Keel, Cathy Gale, Emma Peel and Tara King join forces with Steed to save Mother and Rhonda from Cybernauts.  Only Venus Smith (from the very early series) and the New Avengers (Purdy and Gambit) are missing.  Everyone gets their 'star turn' in this typical adventure.  <br /> <br />The plot revolves around the cybernauts' return this time with voice synthesizer technology to implicate Steed and Mother in treason.  The some of the most popular of Steed's partners are called in to help solve this mystery.  If you are an Avengers fan you'll enjoy this one for the little updates on the former partn ers. If you are not a fan of the series don't start here because you'd never have a clue about what is going on.  The main plot is a bit weak, the ending in particular is a bit anticlimatic. <br /> <br />All in all this is about on a par with the better fanfic that is available on the internet for free.	2004-11-29
US	49111640	RMK996IL4SR2A	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A rollercoaster of a read	Robert Langdon, an expert in religious iconology, leaves his quiet scholar's life in Boston to delve into the murder of a physicist/priest in Switzerland.  Along the way he crosses the paths of a meglomaniac scientist, a beautiful (and brilliant) grieving daughter, a medieval secret society, supersonic planes, antimatter, and the Vatican Guard.  The action is nonstop, the writing is exciting, and the characters are believeable enough to be engaging. <br /> <br />So is this great modern literature, a modern day classic that will live for ages?  Of course not, it is pure escapist fun.  This is, in many ways, a updated James Bond.  A delightful mixture of fantasy and reality.  The reality?  CERN, antimatter, priests who are physicists and/or adopt children and the Vatican all exist.  Planes traveling at mach 15 do not.  As for the Illuminati - your guess is as good as mine.  As for some of the other details (which I will not describe so not to spoil the story), okay they are improbable but most action novels revolve on some improbable points.  This one just has more of these than average.  <br /> <br />This is a fun read that just may keep you up at night to finish.  It may also lead to a little internet surfing on a few obscure subjects (the author had to have made that up, it couldn't be real....could it?).  If you like action/adventure stories you'll like this one.  If you don't like the genre try this one and you might change your mind.	2004-11-21
US	49111640	RDUZ3VTM2NILT	0671667734	710870006	Spock's World (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The history of Vulcan	SPOCKS WORLD, logically enough, focuses on Vulcan and its citizens.  The story shifts through various turning points in Vulcan's history, ranging the 'present day' crisis concerning Vulcan's proposed withdrawal from the Federation to the earliest days of Vulcan prehistory.   <br /> <br />The Enterprise crew is called to Vulcan to testify in favor of Vulcan remaining a part of the Federation.  Many 'old friends' from both the TV series and previous books are included in this book. Among the more well known are T'Pau and T'Pring as well as Spock's parents, Amanda and Sarek.  The real star of this novel is Vulcan itself.  We are given much background into the workings of the planet and its society, background that is well thought out, consistent with the original series and immentiently logical. <br /> <br />This is one of my all time favorite Trek novels of any series (of the 100+ I've read so far) and definitely a must for any Trek fan.  This one could also be enjoyed by someone with only a passing acquaintence with TOS but would probably not be of much interest to anyone completely unfamiliar with the original series.	2004-11-19
US	49111640	R10VBCWYUYQ0RB	0449206181	605118158	Murder at the FBI (Capital Crime Mysteries)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	a pleasant way to spend a few hours	A rather unpopular FBI agent is found murdered on the FBI shooting range, much to the embarrassment of the bureau and even more embarrassing is that the body was found during a full visitors' tour.  The less than choice assignment of investigating the murder sets the agents in charge on a trail that leads to corruption in high places. <br /> <br />This is an adequate tale, cast with rather stock characters - the idealistic young FBI agent, her callous fellow FBI agent and lover, the mysterious writer, the merry widow etc.  The action is predictible with few surprises along the way. <br /> <br />This is one to pick up at the library or at most a resale shop for a way to spend a few hours then pass along rather than give shelf space.	2004-11-19
US	49111640	R10IJ65C4GJ0LI	0061043583	71884098	Unnatural Death (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Further Adventures of Lord Peter and friends	UNNATURAL DEATH (THE DAWSON PEDIGREE) is the third Lord Peter novel, orginally published in 1927.  The case centers around the death of an old woman who died just a bit sooner than expected.  The early demise came to the benefit of her devoted niece who had been her intended heir all along.  Still the suddeness of her demise did seem odd and lead ultimately to the attention of Lord Peter.  His attempt to satisfy his curiousity took him to the country, back to town, delving into the past and finer points of law along the way.   <br /> <br />As with some of the other earlier Lord Peter books the attraction here is in the characters more than the mystery.  More information on Peter is given in the form of biographical notes in the beginning of the book.  We are again treated to Parker and Bunter but most notable are the introductions of Mr. Murbles, the attorney and Miss Climpson, the spinster private detective.   <br /> <br />The 21st century reader will need to make allowances for the state of forensic science in the early '20's as well as the prejudices of the day (against blacks), the limited opportunities for women and the coy way in which lesbian relationships are hinted at but never actually spoken of.  Still, the charm of the novel is in the characters and the setting, the mystery is merely the vehicle.  If you are looking for a serious, challenging mystery look elsewhere.  If you are a fan of Lord Peter or just 'cozies' in general this one is for you.	2004-09-28
US	49111640	R3FUY140GE2NV	0451200535	524952501	Postern of Fate	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The final Christie	POSTERN OF FATE is the last novel Christie actually wrote (those published later were in fact written before but had been kept in reserve).  It is fitting that Christie chose to close her writing career with Tommy and Tuppence.  In many ways Tuppence mirrored Christie herself.  In the early books Tuppence is a young woman fresh from her wartime adventures (much like Christie herself), in later books she is a mother coping with another war, and here is dealing with downsizing to a smaller home, the physical challenges of growing older and memories of the past.  Many of the adventures that Tuppence has in this book are mentioned in Christie's own autobiography. <br /> <br />The Beresfords have recently moved to a new house and discovered that previous owners had left behind various things, including books.  In one of the books they discover a clue left by a young boy of a long ago murder.  In their typical Beresford style Tommy and Tuppence try to uncover the truth and find that murder does not rest quietly even with the passage of so many years. <br /> <br />This novel is not one of Christie's best and the madcap adventure style of previous Tommy and Tuppence novels does not work as well with two eldery heroes.  Still if you are a Christie fan and espeically if you have a fondness for Tommy and Tuppence this one is not to be missed.	2004-09-28
US	49111640	R3I5N35FHXJ2ML	0061043575	414807640	Whose Body? (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Introducing Lord Peter and company	This is the first of the 'Lord Peter' series and therefore spends a lot of time laying the groundword for the series. We learn of Peter's wartime experiences and subsequent post traumatic stress (to use 21st century terms), meet many of the characters that will return through the series, most notably Bunter, Parker, and the Duchess Dowager.  The on going conflict that Peter feels about the consequences of his 'poking around' is also introduced. <br /> <br />The mystery centers on the disappearance of a wealthy businessman and the appearance of a naked corpse in a bathtub.  Peter finds the connection between these seemingly unrelated events after following a trail through various strata of 1920's English society.  Although the mystery is clever for me at least the real story here is Lord Peter and his world. The lives of Peter and his friends and family are much more engaging than the mystery.  This is definitely a 'cozy' series, anyone looking for a more hardcore challenging story should look elsewhere. <br /> <br />This story was written and set in the early 1920's and is definitely a product of those times.  There a numerous comments that are typical to the time but are very offensive to the 21st century reader.  Ignore those and enjoy the rest of the story. <br /> <br />This is also a first novel and has some flaws common to first novels.  Sayers gives us far too much information and detail.  The subsequent novels are better edited and move along more easily.  Still this is a must read for any fan of this series.	2004-09-27
US	49111640	R5NIIY7ODOPVZ	0425174719	613782232	Third Girl (Hercule Poirot)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	If you are looking for your first Christie DON'T start here!	To say that this is not Dame Agatha's best is an understatement. If you are a Christie fan (particularly of Ariadne Oliver) you'll probably want to read this one, otherwise look elsewhere. <br />  <br /> The story opens as Poirot has just sent his book to the publishers a young woman arrives seeking his detective services but decides that he is &quot;too old&quot;. Poirot manages to overcome his shock and elicits a few details from her before she leaves. Then Poirot goes to visit his friend author Ariadne Oliver for sympathy and information. The two sleuths then collaborate to solve the crime. <br />  <br /> In typical Christie fashion there are long hidden secrets that finally revealed, all are not as they seem, all clues are fairly laid out for the reader to follow and of course there is a surprise at the end. On the plus side of this otherwise mediocre novel Ariadne Oliver is delightful.	2004-07-24
US	49111640	R1UZ17KGELJVIQ	0451456521	221787283	Lady of Avalon (Avalon, Book 3)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The weakest of the trilogy but.....	still quite good.<br />LADY OF AVALON does not have the same engaging quality of THE FOREST HOUSE and certainly lacks the grandeur of MISTS OF AVALON but is still a wonderful book.  <br />LADY OF AVALON is three stories in one volume.  The book opens shortly after the close of THE FOREST HOUSE.  Caillean is now the Lady of Avalon in charge of the small surviving band of priestesses.  Her story and that of Sianna who succeeds her tell of the establishment of Avalon.  The second section is the story of Dierna and Teleri and the sacrifices they make for the Lady.  The final section is the story of Ana and Vivanne which lays the groundwork for THE MISTS OF AVALON.<br />If you are a big fan of MISTS OF AVALON this is a must read but be aware that neither THE FOREST HOUSE nor this book quite live up to MISTS.  In any event the stories are engaging on their own and this book could be enjoyed independantly of the others.	2004-07-19
US	49111640	R2GCL03HSXRGSN	0451454243	202730821	The Forest House (The Mists of Avalon: Prequel)	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Although not quite as good as MISTS OF AVALON	this prequel is still excellent.<br />The story is set in the days of Roman occupation of Britain.  Gaius, a young Roman officer and son of the local Roman commandant with his British wife has met and fallen in love with Eilan, the daughter of a powerful Druid family.  Neither family approves of the match and forces the two apart.  For the rest of their lives they met again and again only to be torn apart.  Ultimately their unfulfilled love sets the stage for the events in MISTS OF AVALON.<br />The story is again told, at least in part, from a feminine point of view.  As in MISTS there is a greek tragedy feel of unescapable doom.  The characters are engaging and 'feel real', the plot is compeling making this a book that is hard to put down.  It does not quite live up to MISTS due at least in part, to its more simplistic story line.  Unlike MISTS' numerous story lines THE FOREST HOUSE focuses on Eilan and Gaius with Caillean, a priestess of the Forest House filling in gaps.  This prequel is also significantly shorter.  Still for any fan of MISTS OF AVALON this is a must read and would be enjoyable on its own as well.	2004-07-15
US	49111640	R1YRPQ5HUJWJ1T	0743471555	615518822	1633 (Ring of Fire)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Caution:  this book may cause sleeplessness	I started this series with 1632 about a week ago, had trouble putting it down and went out to get this one four days ago.  I stayed up until 3am finishing it.  I love this series!<br />The basic premise is:  a modern day West Virginia mining town is transported through time and space to 17th century Germany.  The Americans come to grips with their problem and reach some basic decisions about how to cope in 1632.  1633 continues the story.  The European powers have gotten over their initial shock at the Americans arrival and their amazing technology.  Some, particularly the French, are looking for ways to defeat these newcomers.  Meanwhile the Americans are scrambling to adapt to their current situation, which technologies to concentrate on first, where limited resources should be allocated, how best to integrate the stream of refugees into their society and how to integrate with the societies around them.<br />Most of the characters that appeared in the first novel return for this one, others are introduced which leads to a problem.  There are a lot of characters and story lines to keep track of.  Also it can be frustrating to not get enough information on particular favorites.  This is a problem common to any 'epic' length novel or series of books (the PERN stories for example).  One can only hope that their favorites will appear in later books, and that the books keep coming and soon!	2004-07-13
US	49111640	R332ZRI0X08MB0	0451200527	175834458	By The Pricking Of My Thumbs (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Tommy and Tuppence visit Aunt Ada and....	stumble upon yet another sinister criminal network.<br />Tommy and Tuppence Beresford, first introduced as young adventures in post WWI England (THE SECRET ADVERSARY) have appeared from time to time as since: as young marrieds (PARTNERS IN CRIME), then as middle aged parents of grown children (M OR N?) and now somewhat older but still active.  <br />The story opens as the Beresfords decide to pay a duty call on Tommy's rather difficult Aunt Ada. Tuppence is banished by the old lady and retreats to the nursing home's sitting room where she meets another old woman, Mrs. Lancaster.  The two chat quite happily for a while until the old lady asks Tuppence &quot;Was it your poor child?&quot;.  Even allowing for the older woman's age and possible senility Tuppence finds the whole thing rather unsettling.  <br />Still weeks pass and the whole matter begins to be forgotten until, while settling Aunt Ada's affairs after her death, Tuppence finds herself again dealing with Mrs. Lancaster.  This time though, it is the woman's absence rather than her presence that is disturbing.<br />Soon Tuppence, in her typical manner, is hot on the trail with Tommy in pursuit, in his typical manner.  As always, Albert is there to keep an eye on the pair.<br />Christie made the decision to age this pair of sleuths more or less in 'real-time', they were in their early to mid twenties in the opening books (written in the mid to late 1920's), mid to late forties during WWII and seem to be about 60 in this 1968 novel.  This marks a departure from her treatment of Poirot and Miss Marple who age very little from their first appearance to their last.<br />It is always good to see this delightful pair and find out what they have been up to.  The plot of the novel is very much in keeping with the ones before, and, like all Christie novels the clues are all fairly laid out for the reader to follow.  Of course there is the 'Christie twist' at the end that the reader never saw coming.  Like many of her later works, this one is rather sinister as opposed to the light hearted romps of her earlier works.  Still, I gave this one four stars not five because I felt it dragged a bit at times.  Perhaps Tommy and Tuppence would have been more at home in the action packed madcap<BR>adventures of their earlier books despite their advancing years. I know that I would have been.	2004-07-10
US	49111640	R2V7W5SSO3FFLQ	0451199936	458097289	At Bertram's Hotel (A Miss Marple Mystery)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Miss Marple takes a trip down memory lane and.....	ends up involved in a modern day murder.<br />Jane Marple's nephew has given her a treat, a vacation.  Miss Marple was delighted with the idea but requested a trip to London instead of the seaside resorts he had mentioned.  Specifically she wanted to stay at Bertram's Hotel, a place she had stayed several times as a young girl.  Her family was surprised that the establishment was still in business and cautioned her that it could not possibly be as she remembered it but arrangements were made and soon she was settling in.  To her delight Bertram's had not changed a bit.  She also met an old friend that was staying there and, while expressing her surprise at this lack of change, realized that Bertram's should have changed.<br />Over the next few days as she enjoyed her vacation Miss Marple puzzled over this lack of change and other odd things about Bertram's.  Odd things like how Bertram's could possibly find and keep such good help, much less pay them!  And wasn't it interesting the way she and her friend were seeing so many people they knew, or thought they knew.  Being Jane Marple she also could not help but take an interest in those around her.  Particularly she noticed the notorious Bess Sedgwick and the Hon. Elvira Blake and the men that seemed to be following them.<br />Murder of course invades the sancitity of Bertram's (this is a Christie after all).  In the course of their investigations the police also come to realize that Bertram's is too good to be true and with Miss Marple's aid sort out the tangle that ties Bertram's to an international crime ring and teenage romances - both past and present.<br />This is one of the 'cozy' mysteries for which Christie is famous.  <BR>The plot centers on Bertram's, an Edwardian hotel isolated in modern (1965) London.  Secrets, long hidden, come to light due to unlikely coincidences.  As always in a Christie, all the clues are fairly laid out for the reader to follow and of course, there is a surprise twist at the end.	2004-07-10
US	49111640	RK3O52XX7TDBI	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	I LOVED this book!!!!!	This is my best find of the year (so far at least).<br />A small West Virginia mining town has been transported to 1632 Germany in the middle of the 30 Year War.  The Americans are shocked by the situation but quickly adapt.  They realize that their original six square miles of territory is  both in the path of the marauding armies and is too small to support them.  The decision is made to establish a bit of America in the chaos that now surrounds them, to start the American Revolution a century and a half early.  They began taking in refugees, German peasants escaping the brutalities of the merceneries, Jews fleeing persecution, and even some of the armies.<br />The characters are well written - the Americans who step into leadership roles to help their town adapt, the refugees who see their chance to for survival, the generals and nobles who are carrying on the war are made real.<br />The background on the 30 Years War is explained in a way that makes the conflict come alive.  The choices that the town makes, the technologies they decide to keep or downsize are both plausible and logical.  The quirky characters of the small town are familiar to anyone who has ever lived in one.<br />I could barely pull myself away from this book and I'll be getting the second one, 1633, as soon as possible.  BUY THIS BOOK.	2004-07-07
US	49111640	R1SASKIZBI4YDJ	0345424603	867079822	The Masterharper of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Life and Times of Master Robinton	Robinton is one of the most beloved citizens of Pern, he has figured prominently in most of the books but many personal details of his life have not been revealed ...until now.  THE MASTERHARPER OF PERN is the story of those 'missing' years up to the events of DRAGONFLIGHT.  <br />Born into a musical family and raised in the Harper Hall Robinton showed extreme talent from his earliest days to the delight of all around him but his own father.  Never quite understanding or recovering from this rejection Robinton grew to excel at his profession even though his dream of becoming both a harper and a dragonrider was not to be.  His friendship with F'lon, father of F'lar and F'non is shown as well as the beginnings of many of his relationships throughout Pernese society.  Many of these relationships have be alluded to in other books in the series.<BR>Perhaps the most touching aspects of the book are his ill-fated romance and the recurring losses that seem to plague Robinton's life. <br />For fans of the series this is a 'must read'.  If you are new to Pern I highly recommend the series and this prequel would be a good place to start, then continue through the rest in the order they were written.	2004-07-04
US	49111640	R2TOZ7BP505QIG	0756401364	935526976	Long Hot Summoning (Keeper's Chronicles)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	if you REALLY liked the first two	otherwise a whole lot less.  I thought that SUMMON THE KEEPER was one of the funniest, most original books I had ever read, I enjoyed the sequel, THE SECOND SUMMONING, although, like many sequels, it was not quite as good as the first.  This third entry into the series has much of the off-the-wall humor of the first two but just isn't as good as the earlier books.<br />The action picks up a few weeks after THE SECOND SUMMONING, Claire and Dean (and Austin) are back at the Elysian Fields Guest House while younger sister Diana is finishing her last few hours of high school.  Her first summoning arrives immediately after the last bell rings and takes her to a mall.  It sems as though the mundane and magical worlds are overlapping here and need to be separated.  Claire also arrives at the mall, the two set out to sort out the mess, meeting King Arthur along the way.  Meanwhile back at the guest house Dean and Austin are dealing with their own problems.<br />The action is split among the two sisters and Dean which gives the book a lot of plot to deal with, maybe too much.  At times it is difficult to keep the various threads straight, particularly between Claire and Diana.  <br />If there is another in the series I hope that it returns to the standards of the first book. It is possible that this is the end of the series, and if so it was fun while it lasted.  In any case, if you have read and enjoyed the first books by all means read this one.  If the series sounds interesting to you start with SUMMON THE KEEPER.  I will be looking for additional books by this author either in this series or one of her others.	2004-07-03
US	49111640	R10TYQS2LM2WMR	0886779758	755881554	The Second Summoning (The Keeper's Chronicles, No 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	True love + sibling rivalry + teenage trauma = hilarious fun	even more so if anatomically correct angels and demons and a sarcastic cat or two are thrown in as well.<br />This is the second book in the KEEPER'S CHRONICLES series and picks up shortly after SUMMON THE KEEPER ends.  Claire, a young Keeper is still undecided about her romance - or lack thereof - with even younger Bystander Dean.  Her cat, Austin, is always ready to offer her advice as is her bratty younger sister, Diana.  To make life even more frustrating the family business of keeping good and evil in balance is particularly busy at the moment due to the holiday rush.  <br />The trouble seems to begin in a traditional source of torment - a high school - and leads to a scene between an irate father finding a naked teenage boy in his daughter's bedroom.  The daughter's explanation, that this is not a boy but an angelic manifestation, does not calm dad down. <br />Like SUMMON THE KEEPER, THE SECOND SUMMONING is set in modern Canada, and involves a family that is part of a group who keep the world balanced between good and evil.  The tone of this series is hilarious, particularly for anyone who has ever lived with a cat.<br />If you are into serious scifi/fantasy (Anne Rice for example) you probably won't like this but if your tastes run more towards life's absurdies this is for you.  I would recommend starting with SUMMON THE KEEPER though.	2004-06-30
US	49111640	R2UN2B6WGACTJ1	0345434692	343656718	The Skies of Pern	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	May you live in interesting times	This oriental curse describes the new problems chronicled in this 2001 entry in the long running Pern series.  The story picks up a few years after ALL THE WEYRS OF PERN.  The Thread that has periodically ravaged the planet will be totally eradicated in a few years leaving the society with the need to reorganize itself.  The dragons and their riders who have protected Pern for thousands of years now need to be thinking about what other skills they have to offer, new innovations from the AVAIS computer are still entering society, changing traditional ways of life.  Some are not happy about the changes they see happening around them and wish to maintain the traditional ways of life.  They attempt to sabotage the new inventions, calling them 'Abominations'.  THE SKIES OF PERN chronicles these societial changes mainly through the actions of Lessa and F'Lar's son, F'Lessan although many other old friends appear, Jaxom and Ruth most notably.<br />This is a must read for any fan of the series and while it could be read independantly it would be more enjoyable to begin at the beginning of the series.	2004-06-29
US	49111640	R1MP4QNNQCG3SJ	0312981384	34907413	Endless Night	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Definitely NOT a typical Christie...	but wonderful in its own way.  This is one of Christie's 'non-series' books - no Poirot, Miss Marple, Tommy and Tuppence etc.  Also it is MUCH darker and more serious than her usual work, this is not one to give a 'younger or more sensitive reader'.  It is, however, an example of just how talented an author Christie was, capable of much more than  clever, formulistic detective stories.<br />This moody, 1967 novel is told by Mike Rogers, a young man who drifted from job to job looking for something, he wasn't sure of just what.  He found his passion in a place, Gipsy Acre, a piece of ground that he wanted to buy and build a marvelous house on, a house designed by a famous architect he had met.  The problem was that Mike had no money, and very little chance of ever getting the kind of money he would need for this dream.  By chance he met a beautiful young woman who happened to be fabulously wealthy.  They fell in love, married and.......well, read the book.<br />Again, this is definitely not a 'cozy' mystery, it is dark, disturbing and scary.  It is one of those books that will stay with you and haunt you for years to come.  As with all Christies the clues are all there for you to follow, you may or may not guess the killer and there is definitely a Christie twist at the finish.	2004-06-27
US	49111640	R3S2YTW1G2MT3G	0345368932	982982501	All the Weyrs of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Past and present meet to decide the future of Pern	This 1991 entry into the long running series begins with the rediscovery of the computer left by the first settlers to Pern.  This computer, named AIVAS, complete with its vast store of knowledge, had managed to stay operational in the intervening 2,500 plus years since the settlers had been forced to flee the original settlement.  In that time the settlers had developed a new society and found methods to deal with the menacing Thread that periodically attacked their world but had lost many of the technologies that their ancestors had brought with them from Earth.  Now that AIVAS was available to them the people of Pern would have the opportunity to regain this knowledge, but at what cost to their society?<br />Favorite characters from previous novels are here, Jaxom and his white dragon Ruth, Master Harper Robinthon, dragonriders Lessa, F'Lar and their son F'lessan and numerous others.  We see how the  people and dragons of Pern adapt to the changes in their world and rise to met the challenges these changes have brought about.<br />For long time fans of the series there is a fear that this is the end of the saga but it appears that there are other entries writen more recently.  In any case this is a must read for any fan of the series.  It is not, however, a good place to start.	2004-06-26
US	49111640	R1GBGB5C2L2CCM	0312981309	879411622	Towards Zero (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Challenging puzzle that will keep you guessing to the end	This 1944 mystery begins with a group of criminologists discussing murder cases, one remarks that murder mysteries are written backwards, beginning with the crime when in fact, the real story begins much earlier.  <br />The action then shifts to other characters as the countdown to zero hour begins.  The diverse group includes a would be suicide; an athletic young man and his current and former wives; a planter from the Far East; and a wealthy invalid and her impoverished companion. We see these characters and others take the steps that ultimately lead then to an isolated seacoast estate and murder.<br />This is a Sgt. Battle mystery (The Seven Dials) and we are treated to some background information on him.  Poirot is mentioned but only in passing.  Christie, speaking through Battle, makes clear her feelings about the then current fad of psychology and those who attempt to apply it while only half understanding the theories.<br />The 60 year old story has worn well overall.  A 21st century reader would be puzzled only by the stigma that some of the characters applied to divorce and the relatively unsophisicated forensic proceedures.  This is, as is typical of Christie's work, well plotted, the clues are all there for the reader to follow through the maze of red herrings but nearly impossible to solve before the detective.	2004-06-26
US	49111640	R1DNPOVAB9R0QP	0425175464	960482966	Hickory Dickory Dock: A Hercule Poirot Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Miss Lemon shocked Poirot by making errors and....	revealing that she has a sister!  Poirot had never before considered that his incredibly efficient secretary could be so human.  Miss Lemon's sister was responsible for the errors as well, there were troubling things taking place in her life.  There were thefts taking place at the youth hostel where she worked.  Poirot decided to look into the matter as a favor to Miss Lemon and so he could restore the order in his own life.<br />Poirot begins his investigation of the hostel and its residents but before he can solve the rash of petty thefts a murder occurs, a murder that is only the first of a series.  The trail leads Poirot and the police into a world of smuggling with side trips through young love and family secrets.<br />In typical Christie fashion the clues are all laid out for the reader to follow.  There are red herrings to confuse the armchair detective - perhaps a few too many in this one - and of course, the usual Christie 'twist' at the end.<br />It is often suggested that a writer should write about what they know and this book points out that Christie didn't know very much about unversity students in the mid-fifties. The characters do not come to life in this one they way they do in most of her other books.  Keeping the various students/suspects sorted out it difficult because they really aren't very memorable.  Also this one seems to suffer from too much - too much plot drug AND gem smuggling, too many red herrings and too many conincidences.  <br />It should be noted that this book was originally written in 1955 and certain parts are very much representative of that time.  Stereotypes of Italians, blacks, Indians, Cockneys etc are all present and tend to make the 21st century reader cringe.<br />Even though this is not one of Christie's masterpieces it is still an excellent read, thoroughly challenging and enjoyable.	2004-06-25
US	49111640	R3CHNEZEHVWDUC	042506784X	146746639	The Hollow (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Poirot accepts a lunch invitation from a neighbor and.....	arrives in time to solve a murder.  <br />Hercule Poirot has taken a weekend cottage in the country.  Naturally his new neighbors, the Angkatells, Lucy and Henry, invite him to join their houseparty for luncheon.  The other guests include Dr. John Christow, his adoring and boring wife Gerda, his mistress Henrietta Savernake, the renowned sculptor as well as Midge Hardcastle, a distant cousin, David Angkatell another distant cousin currently at Cambridge and Edward Angkatell, the current occupant of the family estate, Ainswick.<br />We are given background information on these characters and their relationships to one another in the opening chapters of the novel.  By the time Poirot arrives on the scene the tension is so thick that it is almost a relief when the murder is committed!  The story progresses in typical Christie fashion, all the clues are fairly laid out leaving the reader to sort through the red herrings to solve the crime.  <br />This 1946 novel has worn well, it could be filmed today as either a period piece or updated and be enjoyed either way.  Christie herself has questioned the appearance of Poirot in this story, Hercule is not pivotal to this one, although he does not detract from the book either.  This is one of those books that could be enjoyed by non Christie detective fans as well as her devotees.  In fact this one could even be enjoyed by those who are not particularly murder mystery fans.	2004-06-24
US	49111640	R3AKACX1VSBLS	0446515868	846070050	Night Train to Memphis	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Vicky and John (and Schmidt) go to Egypt	and have many interesting adventures there.<br />In this 1994 adventure, the 5th, and unfortunately latest, in the Vicky Bliss series Dr. Vicky Bliss is approached to foil a planned robbery of Egyptian artifacts from the Cario museum.  She is asked to pose as an expert on a Nile cruise, a cruise geared for amateur Egyptolists.  Vicky protested her unsuitablity for this assignment until she realized that the suspected thief was none other than her sometime lover, the mysterious &quot;Sir John Smythe&quot;.  <br />Naturally Vicky does join the group, and does find her lover there - along with his mother and new bride.  The adventure then takes off at a typical Peters breakneck pace, filled with bodies, false identities, lies, wild chases through the desert night, fantastic escapes and....well if you've read any of Peter's  work you get the picture and if you haven't you should, just don't start with this one.<br />For fans of Peter's work there are many wonderful little treats in this one, John claims a name from his past as his own, hints at a long family connection to Egypt (could his real last name be Emerson?), Schmidt is developed as more than a cardboard comic character, a husband and wife Egyptologist team of the past century is mentioned and a 'writer of popular Egyptian mystery adventures' makes a cameo apprearance.  <br />This is a particularly fun read, only marred by the fact that it is the last Vicky Bliss - so far - I refuse to give up hope!	2004-06-09
US	49111640	R20AYEY0YCOQ1O	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	If you don't like Science Fiction......	read this and change your mind.<br />The narrator met a man covered in tattos, tattos that moved to tell  stories, eighteen of which are told in this volume.  The stories, many of which have been published separately, are:<BR>THE VELDT - overindulgence is bad for both parents and children<BR>KALEIDOSCOPE - doomed astronauts floating in space<BR>THE OTHER FOOT - reverse discrimination with a vengence<BR>THE HIGHWAY - sometimes life passes you by and sometimes it doesn't<BR>THE MAN - is it the journey or the destination that matters?<BR>THE LONG RAIN - sometimes madness is the answer <BR>THE ROCKET MAN - career vs. family<BR>THE FIRE BALLOONS - is religion the answer or the question?<BR>THE LAST NIGHT OF THE WORLD - the end with a whimper not a bang <BR>THE EXILES - do people live for art or does art live for people?<BR>NO PARTICULAR NIGHT OR MORNING - again the answer could be madness<BR>THE FOX AND THE FOREST - you can run but you cannot hide<BR>THE VISITOR - sometimes you don't know what you've got 'til its gone <BR>THE CONCRETE MIXER - Mars invades<BR>MARIONETTES, INC. - machines can be asked to do too much<BR>THE CITY - revenge can be served very cold<BR>ZERO HOUR - parents need to parent<BR>THE ROCKET - Desire, envy and the triumph of the human spirit<br />Although these tales are hauntingly disturbing and many contain rather gruesome images Bradbury writes with a gentleness that takes material that could be shocking in another writer's hand and instead makes it poignant.  He allows the more subtle message of the stories to come through by taking the edge off the sensationalism. <br />It is particularly interesting to read these stories and rember (or discover) what life was like in the fifties and then reflect (investigate) what changes took place in the subsequent fifty year.<br />For those who have read this and didn't like it try it again in a few years.	2004-06-03
US	49111640	R2IW321O6S8M0J	0425103633	884941430	Murder in Mesopotamia (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Perhaps Poirot should have vacationed somewhere else...	since his trip to the Middle East seems to keep him working.  <br />This 1935 novel is set in Mesopotamia (present day Iraq) at an archeological dig, a setting that Christie came to know quite well after her marriage to an archeologist.  A nurse, Amy Leatheran, has been engaged to care for the wife of the leader of an archeological expedition.  She was told that the woman was suffering from 'nerves' only and that there was no real problem.  Unfortunately for the patient her concerns turned out to be not imaginary after all, she was murdered.  Hercule Poirot who was traveling through the area was brought into the case and of course solved the mystery.<br />MURDER IN MESPOTAMIA is part of a series of book that covers Poirot's Middle Eastern 'holiday' (APPOINTMENT WITH DEATH and MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS also chronicle this trip).  It is unusual in that the story is narrated by Amy Leatheran who also acts as Poirot's assistant when he enters the story about 1/3 of the way through the story.<br />Although this is fairly laid out, as all of Christie's works, and has an intriguing and clever plot I found it difficult to really get into this one.  Many of the characters were rather one dimensional and not very interesting.  Still one of Christie's lesser works is still better than most other writer's best efforts.	2004-06-01
US	49111640	R9ZSOBCZPOLYM	0425108589	811400280	Appointment with Death (A Hercule Poirot Mystery)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Can't Poirot EVER get some time off?	Hercule Poirot has decided to take a vacation to the Middle East.    One his first night in Jerusalem he overhears a bit of conversation - \\"You do see, don't you, that she's got to be killed?\\"  He assumes that he has heard two people collaborating on a book or play, smiles to himself as he muses that crime seems to follow him everywhere.  Of course the conversation comes back to haunt him as he again crosses paths with the speakers.<br />This is another of Christie's dysfunctional families, this time the  problem parent is the mother instead of her usual tyrannical father.  The Boynton family consists of Mrs. Boynton, grossly overweight, in poor health and whose chief occupation is to torment her family.  She has three adult step children, Lennox (married to Nadine), Raymond and Carol and her own daughter, Ginevra.  While on an excursion to Petra Mrs. Boynton dies leaving the question of natural causes or murder as the cause.  If it is murder was it committed by one of the family or another member of the group?<br />Poirot is consulted by a local offical to sort out the mess which of course he does but not without suffering the hardships of the desert - so hard on patent leather shoes!<br />This 1937 novel is one of Christie's 'psychological' mysteries where much time is spent on motive and character development.  The result is that by the end of the novel the reader feels personally acquainted with many of the characters.  Also this is set in the Middle East where Christie spent much time herself and gives the novel an insight on the area and travel in those times.  It is an excellent mystery, all clues are fairly laid out for the reader to sort out and still quite enjoyable and challenging nearly 70 years later.	2004-05-18
US	49111640	RN2A5AF8XR5GA	0451200209	638574290	The Thirteen Problems (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Must read for all Miss Marple fans	This 1932 collection was also published as THE TUESDAY CLUB MURDERS.  Many of the stories have also appeared separately in other collections.  <br />Like THE LABORS OF HERCULES and PARTNERS IN CRIME it is a series of short stories bridged together in an arc.  The opening setting is a gathering in St. Mary Mead at Jane Marple's cottage, attended by her nephew writer Raymond West, artist Joyce Lempriere, Sir Henry Clithering - retired Scotlandyard commissioner, Dr. Pender - the local clergyman, and solicitor Mr. Petherick.  The group decides to entertain themselves by describing puzzling crimes they have experienced and to challenge the rest of the group to arrive at the solution.  The group at first does not plan to include Miss Marple in their game but condescend to do so when she objects.  Naturally Aunt Jane arrives at all the answers.  <br />The following year Sir Henry Clithering was visiting his friends the Bantrys (THE BODY IN THE LIBRARY), and mentioned his previous trip to St. Mary Mead and Miss Marple.  After dinner that evening another evening of curious problems took place.  This time the group included Col. and Mrs. Bantry, Dr. Lloyd, actress Jane Helier as well as Sir Henry and Miss Marple.  Again Miss Marple had all the answers, including one to a crime that hadn't happened yet.<br />The final problem was presented sometime later when Sir Henry was again visiting his friends, the Bantrys.  A village girl, the daughter of the local pub owner, had killed herself the night before, sad but of no particular interest to Sir Henry.  No interest that is, until Miss Marple arrived to request that Sir Henry investigate the murder, not suicide, of the girl.  She even gave Sir Henry the name of the murderer!  Sir Henry agreed to look into matter and.....well, read the story<br />The mysteries are all perfect little Christie gems, challenging the reader (with all the clues tucked in among the red herrings) to solve the crime before Miss Marple.  The device of linking the stories in post dinner party conversation is charming.  It is wonderful to meet characters that will return in other Miss Marple stories:  Raymond West and Joyce Lempriere; Col. and Dolly Bantry; and Sir Henry Clithering.	2004-05-16
US	49111640	R3CPYQGSG42950	0425067858	889068284	The Labors of Hercules (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	20th century Hercules	This 1947 short story collection opens in Poirot's London apartment where he is spending an evening with an old friend, Dr. Burton.  The subject turns to names and Dr. Burton asks Poirot about his unusual first name, implying that Poirot does not resemble the original Hercules at all.  Poirot, who had not read the Greek myths before, decides to rise to the challenge and undertake his own 12 labors. These labors are related in a linked series of short stories, each adventure is complete unto its self but most contain references to earlier stories in the arc.  The stories are names after the origninal 12 labors and are:<br />The Nemean Lion - Poirot unmasks a dognapping gang<BR>The Lernean Hydra - involves rumor, murder and a love triangle<BR>The Arcadian Deer -  young love sends Poirot on a long quest<BR>The Ermanthian Boar - Poirot captures a crime lord <BR>The Augean Stables - Poirot clears political intrigue and scandal<BR>The Stymphalean Birds - Poirot halts a blackmail scheme<BR>The Cretan Bull - Poirot unearths an old scandal to stop a crime<BR>The Horses of Diomedes - Poirot breaks up a drug ring<BR>The Girdle of Hyppolita - Poirot finds a missing art treasure<BR>The Flock of Geryon - Poirot stops a religious conman<BR>The Apples of the Hesperides - Poirot locates a missing treasure<BR>The Capture of Cerberus - Poirot enters Hell for an old friend <br />The stories are all Christie gems, usually leading the reader astray and ending with a surprise twist.  It is also amusing to see the Poirot interpretation of the labors, the lion becomes a Pekinese dog, the harpies harmless old women etc.  This is a good book to take on a trip, the short story format lends itself to reading in interrupted spurts.	2004-05-15
US	49111640	R303OR6NIBF9FQ	0440186927	848723033	There Is a Tide	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Twists and turns and surprises to the very end	This 1948 novel opens as Poirot taking refuge in a London Club tries to take his mind off the bombing going on outside by listening to the club bore tell another of his endless stories.  Years later the story and the bore re-enter Poirot's life, leaving the detective to sort out past fiction from fact to solve more recent murders.<br />The Cloade family had always relied on Uncle Gordon and his money to make their lives more comfortable.  In post war England life was no longer comfortable and they needed Uncle Gordon more than ever.  Unfortunately for them Uncle has married a much younger woman, then died in an air raid without making provisions for them.  Now they needed to ask his young wife and her brother (or is he her brother?) for help...or did they?<br />Surprise twists happen every few pages making what is seemed certain suddenly uncertain - rather like the post war turmoil many of the characters were experiencing.  In typical Christie fashion though, all the clues are there for the reader to ferret out before Poirot reveals all.	2004-05-14
US	49111640	R10SU2EJNBV5RA	0312981708	117539379	Passenger to Frankfurt	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not a typical Christie but still great	This 1970 novel is definitely not one of Christie's usual cozy style of mystery.  It is, instead, a thriller type of story involving a world-wide conspiracy of Neo Nazis that has much more in common with James Bond than Hercule Poirot.  <br />While returning from a trip to far east for the Foreign Office, Sir Stafford Nye was approached by a young woman who had an interesting request.  She wanted to borrow his passport and distinctive traveling cloak to escape killers who were stalking her.  Sir Stafford agreed to help her which set a strange and exciting adventure in motion. Within a few weeks Sir Stafford found himself on a trail that lead throughout England, to Germany and beyond.  His fellow travelers included the beautiful woman that set things in motion, scientists, diplomats, mystery men and his Great Aunt Matilda and one of her old school mates.<br />Even though this is a departure from Christie's usual work it is still a well crafted story, full of red herrings and interesting quirky characters as one would expect from Dame Agatha.  We are also treated to a visit from Mr. Robinson, the shadowy figure of international intrigue that has appeared in some earlier works.	2004-05-12
US	49111640	RCSUV5T4XKH5J	0425175472	953841070	Cat among the Pigeons: A Hercule Poirot Novel (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Poirot visits a girls' school	This 1959 novel begins in a fictional mideastern country.  The country is on the brink of revolution, the young prince is planning his escape he entrusts the family fortune in gems to his closest friend to smuggle out of the country.  Arrangements are made shortly before the two young men are killed. <br />Meanwhile, back in England it is the beginning of the summer term at Meadowlands, an exclusive girls' school.  Students and staff from all over the world are there, including a princess from the mideast whose cousin/fiance has just been killed.  The famous gems have also found there way there.  Various unusual occurances begin to take place at the school, strange visitors, unusual behavior among the staff and then murder and kidnapping.  <br />One of the students uncovers part of the secret and decides that she needs outside help so she contacts Hercule Poirot.  Poirot, of course, resolves the mysteries both large and small that have been plaguing the school.<br />There are more characters introduced in this novel than is usual in Christie's work which makes this one of the more challenging of her work to figure out.  There are several subplots woven into the action that things confusing as well.  This is a departure from Christie's usual 'cozy' stories of village life or house parties.  It is more of a thriller than her usual work, some of her most sympathetic characters are killed and Poirot only appears at the end of the novel.  Even so it is a very enjoyable mystery and one of my personal favorites.<br />We are also treated to an update on the Summerhills, old friends from a previous book, MRS. McGINTY'S DEAD.  Mrs. Summerhill is a friend of one of the students' parents.  Poirot is delighted to hear that although Mrs. Summerhill's house is still disorganized and her cooking is generally deplorable she makes wonderful omelets, a skill that she learned from him.	2004-05-12
US	49111640	R1JYL5PL5B7ZIV	0425175456	400761492	Mrs. McGinty's Dead: A Hercule Poirot Novel (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	M. Poirot has his dinner interrupted by an old friend	Hercule Poirot has been enjoying his retirement.  His main concern of each day is planning the menu for his next meal - it is a pity that one can only truly enjoy three meals a day!  His old friend Inspector Spence asks him to look into a case for him. Mrs. McGinty, a charwoman in a small village was brutally murdered.  Spence has already caught the murderer, (the woman's lodger) a jury has found him guilty and the date for the execution has been set. The only problem is that the good inspector has doubts.  <br />Poirot agrees to look into the matter and sets off for the village of Broadhinny, where the crime took place.  He takes up residence in the only available lodging in town, a very disorganized bed and breakfast, suffering dreadfully from the terrible accomodations and worse meals and begins working on the case.  While there Poirot mets an old friend, Ariadne Oliver, famous mystery novelist who was in Broadhinny working on a stage adaption of her work.  In the end of course, Poirot solves the crime and sees that justice is served.<br />The mystery here is a recurring theme of Christie's, an old crime that has resurfaced years later and requiring many old secrets to be revealed.  The only problem with this particular novel is that it is quite complicated with many characters and their stories that tend to become a bit difficult to keep straight.  On the plus side we are treated to yet another visit with Ariadne Oliver, always a delight.  We are also introduced to the Summerhayes family, a wonderfully disorganized group that really diserve their own book.	2004-05-11
US	49111640	R27CQC364W6JQ0	0425174735	906606881	Dead Man's Folly (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some people take games far too seriously....	which can really be a problem during a murder mystery game.<br />Mystery novelist (and Christie alter ego) Ariadne Oliver has been hired to devise a murder mystery game for a village fete.  While she is on the scene setting up the clues she begins to feel uneasy about the whole thing, as she explains to her friend, Hercule Poirot she fears that her pretend murder may be replaced by a real one!<br />Alas, even with two sleuths a murder does occur during the party.  Poirot rises to the challenge and uncovers the culprit in the end of course.  Along the way he deals with the various classes of village society, as well as a youth hostel full of foreign students and even a visiting long lost cousin.<br />As always with Christie the clues are all fairly laid out for the reader to find, hidden among all the red herrings.  Her characters are consistent, and the solution is clever.  We are also treated to a delightful opening scene with Miss Lemon as an added bonus.<br />This is one of Christie's later works (1956) and while she did try to keep up with the changing times she didn't have the same feel for the post war world as she did for the '20's and 30's.  Even so one of Christie's lesser works is still better than most writers can ever hope to achieve.	2004-05-10
US	49111640	RNN6L5LZSHJB7	0312979827	770567927	Murder is Easy (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	This is why your mother told you not to talk to strangers	Luke Fitzwilliam has just returned home to England after several years working in the East.  As he settles into a train compartment on the way to London he strikes up a conversation with an elderly woman who reminds him of one of his aunts.  She tells him a strange story of murders in her village, giving him details of the crimes and relating how she is on her way to Scotland Yard to try and stop the murderer before there is another death.  Luke listens to her with half an ear and then forgets the incident after his arrival in London.  He is reminded though when he sees that his traveling companion was killed in a street accident shortly after they parted company. He is further surprised to hear that the person named as the next victim has in fact died suddenly.  <br />He decides to investigate further, travels to the village and begins become involved in the village life.  While there Luke meets the usual village ensemble, the old maids, local doctor and family, local lord of the manor and his household and others.  Luke begins to find certain disturbing aspects on the local scene  that convince him that the outrageous stories he had been told just might be the truth after all.<br />This is a departure from Christie's usual work, there are no appearances by Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple however Sgt. Battle does make an appearance at the very end of the story.  Luke Fitzwilliam is one of Dame Agatha's one appearance only heroes which is a pity.  He and his romantic interest quite charming, it would be nice to meet them again.	2004-05-09
US	49111640	R3UULQL28GTUKS	0425173755	126736904	Murder on the Orient Express (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If you are only going to read one mystery in your life...	this would be a good choice.<br />MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS is one of the most well known mysteries of all time, and for good reason, it is brilliant.  The story begins with Hercule Poirot beginning a journey on the famed Orient Express.  His fellow travelers are a mixed lot; an American businessman and his secretary/assistant and his valet, a Russian Princess and her maid, a Hungarian Count and Countess, a governess, a missionary, a British military man returning from India and two salesman, one American and the other Italian. <br />On the second night out one of the group is murdered, murdered several times over by multiple stab wounds. The train is also snowbound.  Poirot quickly discovers that the murderer must still be on the train and works to solve the crime before the train is freed and the killer able to escape, or kill again.  He soon learns that the victim is not exactly who he seems, and in fact was connected with a famous kidnapping/murder case.  <br />MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS is an example of how Christie took the events of her day, in this instance the Lindbergh kidnapping, combined with her own experiences (she traveled on the Orient Express many times) to write her novels.  Christie also pushed the rules of detective fiction in this one, as she did in THE MURDER OF ROGER AKROYD earlier and would again later in AND THEN THERE WERE NONE (TEN LITTLE INDIANS), to come up with a novel solution.	2004-05-08
US	49111640	R1PKW3KGFGFZW1	0425129632	108482839	Hallowe'en Party (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Why Ariadne Oliver stopped eating apples	Mystery writer, Ariadne Oliver was visting a friend and agreed to help her organize a Halloween party for the village teenagers.  The party was a great success despite Ms. Oliver's assistance until a rather overbearing young girl was found drowned in the apple bobbing bucket.  <br />Ariadne turned to her friend, Hercule Poirot, for help in solving this crime.  Together the two work to discover just who could have wanted the 13 year old dead and why.  Along the way scandals from the past are uncovered, another murder committed and unsupected ones found.  Apparently the peaceful village had been hiding blackmail, forgery, multiple murders, greed and madness for years.<br />The only things that were stumbling blocks to my enjoyment of the story were the lack of explanation of various terms like 'eleven plus' and references to the English school system - grammar school vs secondary modern and A-levels.  I found these references distracting from the main story.  The other thing I found annoying was a bit where a mother, who had been described at length as a loving, caring, responsible and intelligent parent wants to leave her child behind while she goes away for a few days.  Not only does she want to leave the child behind but proposes to leave her behind with a family that had already had two family members murdered in the past two weeks.  I found that very unrealistic and a very uncharacteristic 'blooper' on the part of Christie.<br />Still this 1969 novel has held up well, the action could take place today just as easily as 40 plus years ago.  I highly recommend this mystery, particularly for fans of the scatty Ariadne Oliver.	2004-05-07
US	49111640	RWXUVA4X6W0CP	0451201132	620058021	N or M? (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So,  Mummy,  just what DID you and Daddy do during the war?	Tommy and Tuppence Beresford (SECRET ADVERSARY and PARTNERS IN CRIME) are now a middle aged couple who have two grown children, twins Deborah and Derek.  It is the opening days of WWII, England  is bracing for the Blitz and all citizens are anxious to \\"do their bit\\".  Unfortunately while the twins are away on military assignments, the older Beresfords are deemed to be too old for active service. They are urged to take up service at home, like knitting.  Ultimately though Tommy's old contacts pay off - for him at least - he is offered a desk job in a restricted area, Tuppence must remain at home, with the hated knitting.  <br />It is later revealed that the desk job is a ruse and Tommy is needed for an undercover assignment.  Tuppence is one step ahead as usual and arrives on the scene before Tommy.  Together the two work to ferret out a spy ring on the English coast.  As always with these two there are deceptions, kidnappings and last minute rescues before the triumphant conclusion.<br />It is nice to see what old friends have been up to in the intervening years and good to see that they haven't lost a step.   Christie does an excellent job of capturing the atmosphere of the time, the tension as the war builds and the anxious waiting to hear news of loved ones in peril.<br />There are a couple of problems though for long time fans of this series.  Judging from the publication dates of the earlier novels, 1922 and 1929, Tommy and Tuppence are in their early 40s and the twins are 11 years old during this one.  Even going by the slighly different time frame listed in this novel the twins cannot be more than teenagers and Tommy would still be very young to be retired. <br />The plot is, as usual for Christie, clever and designed to keep the reader guessing until the end.  The final chapter is, in keeping with the rest of the series, a nice, sentimental touch.	2004-05-07
US	49111640	RANOUE6ON0WSC	0425173917	974937155	The Clocks (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Poirot again is called out of retirement	This 1963 mystery begins with a young woman going out on an assignment from a secretarial service and finding a dead body instead of a client waiting to dictate a letter.  Understandably upset, she runs out into the street screaming.  There she meets a young man, Colin Lamb, who tries to help her.  Mr. Lamb (not his real name) is the son of Sgt. Battle and may not be the innocent marine biologist that he claims to be.  In fact there may be many things in that neighborhood that are not just as they appear to be.  Colin investigates on his own for a while but ultimately turns to Hercule Poirot for help.    The story is well plotted.  Some aspects might confuse a 21st century reader, like the scarcity of home telephones in English houses 50 years ago, the tensions that existed between Russia and the rest of Europe and the difficulities of identifying a dead body during that time. Even with these problems the story is very well written and still quite enjoyable.	2004-05-06
US	49111640	R2WQ48W2LNR0W8	0451201175	50763305	Partners in Crime (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Have you heard anything from the Beresfords lately?	Tommy and Tuppence Beresford's romance and postwar adventures were told in THE SECRET ADVERSARY.  It is now 6 years later (1929) and the pair are comfortably settled into married life.<br />Tommy has a job in the Secret Service, working for Mr. Carter whom they had met during their earlier adventures, and is reasonably content but Tuppence is bored.  The housework only occupies a few hours in the morning leaving her longing for earlier, more exciting times.  Just as Tommy warns her to be careful what she wishes for his boss arrives to offer them an adventure.  <br />He requests the pair take over a detective agency that is a front for Russian spies.  The plan is to keep the agency going until the Secret Service can capture the rest of the spy ring.  In order to keep up the front of the detective agency Tommy and Tuppence take on various jobs that come along.  They are great fans of detective stories and model their detection techniques on the &quot;Classics&quot; the popular fictional detectives of the day.<br />This collection of light hearted adventures is charming and cleverly plotted.  It is wonderful to see what has happened to the delightful characters of not only Tommy and Tuppence but also Albert and the mysterious Mr. Carter.  So why a 4 instead of a 5 star rating?  The problem is with the use of the fictional characters as role models.  Other than Sherlock Holmes few of the other detectives (Dr. Thorndyke, Inspector Hanaud, Max Carrados, Reggie Fortune, Inspector French, Father Brown and The Old Man in the Corner) are very well know today.  Still, it is possible to enjoy the stories without knowing who the inspirations were.	2004-05-05
US	49111640	R1YDGSCE6EHR2Z	0425091805	653534023	Three Act Tragedy (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	If you are reading  Christie's mysteries	you might want to skip over this unless you are determined to read them all.  This is one of her lesser efforts that only make the rest of her work so much better.<br />The story is cleverly arranged into &quot;Acts&quot;, a reflection of the main character, Sir Charles Cartwright, a famous stage actor who is now retired.  Sir Charles hosts a dinner party which includes many who have connections with the stage:  Angela Sutcliffe, actress; Miss Willis, playwright; Capt. Darce and his wife, who run a theatrical dressmaking business; and Mr. Satterthwaite, wealthy patron of the arts (featured in the short story collection THE MYSTERIOUS MR. QUIN).  Rounding out the party are  Dr. Strange, a specialist in nervous disorder and a college friend; the local vicar and his wife; Lady Mary Lytton Gore and her daughter Hermione, Mr. Oliver Manders and Hercule Poirot.<br />The party proceeds predictably until a murder takes place (or maybe just proceeds predictably).  End of Act I, Act II weeks later another dinner party takes place miles aways, many, although not all, of the same guests are present and another murder takes place.  Act III, Poirot and others involved in the tragedies investigate the crimes and of course, Poirot solves the crime.<br />The characters of Mr. Satterthwaite and Hermione are delightful and well written and Poirot is his usual eccentric self.  Unfortunately the rest of the characters are  down right boring and totally forgetable. The plot itself is far better than the characters.  The crimes are cleverly done, there is the usual Christie twist at the end but even that cannot raise this beyond a passable rating.  This mystery is suitable for long, boring  plane rides or similar periods of prolonged entrapment only.	2004-05-05
US	49111640	R33T3E7ESJI6R2	0445040416	3118084	Death In the Air	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Poirot takes to flight	Some of Christie's novels only betray their age by a subtle reference to a bygone time, others have plots than hinge on a point that modern technology has made obsolete.  In this day of cell phones, SUV, satellite TV, computer networks etc just how isolated can a house in the English countryside be?  Still other stories are dated in a very charming way, and lead the reader back to a far different time.  This 1935 novel takes us back to a day when air travel was very different from today.  A plane of 21 passengers had 2 pilots to fly from Paris to London and 2 stewards who served five course meals.<br />The story opens with Poirot embarking on a flight between Paris and London.  He and the other passengers settle themselves for the journey, marred only by the presence of a stowaway wasp which is quickly killed by one of the passengers.  The situation changes when a steward tries to wake one of the passengers in preparation for landing.  She has died during the flight.<br />Poirot sets out to solve the crime which appears to have been committed by using a dart tipped with snake venom shot from a blowgun.  All the passengers are under suspicion and have lives that are surprising intertwined.  The trail leads Poirot from London, to the English countryside and back to Paris with inquiries stretching halfway around the world.  In the end Poirot is, of course, triumphant.  He even manages to help true love along the way.<br />Even though this is very much a period piece the mystery is intriging and Christie comes through with one of her characteristic surprise twists.	2004-05-04
US	49111640	R2JLBTJK0DPTTO	0312979479	493632041	And Then There Were None	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Dame Agatha had some serious issues with nursery rhymes!	AND THEN THERE WERE NONE (also titled TEN LITTLE INDIANS and originally another title that will not be listed here) is another story that was based on a nursery rhyme (others include A POCKET FULL OF RYE and HICKORY DICKORY DEATH).<br />This 1939 novel opens with a varied group of eight travelers all bound for a weekend party on a fashionable island retreat.  Other than their destination they seem to have nothing in common, they don't even seem to have been invited by the same person!  When they arrive on the island they are met by two servants but no host.  The mystery deepens when a recorded message accuses all, guests and staff, with murder - murders that they had all gotten away with until now. Needless to say this cast a shadow over the party, a shadow that deepened with the first murder and increased with every subsequent one.<br />This is an unusual story in that there is no detective/hero that is investigating the crime throughout the story.  Also the varied methods of each murder are predicted by the rhyme about the Indian boys.  It is interesting to see how the mishaps of the rhyme are translated into actual methods of execution.  Further the murder's identity is definitely kept a secret until the last page.<br />This is one of Christie's most famous works, along with THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD, MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS, and DEATH ON THE NILE.  Like these other well known books, this one also has a very unusual ending.  Much was made during Christie's career by her contemporaries about the 'rules of mystery writing' - these rules included: no unknown, untracable poisons, or 'death rays'; no keeping the murder out of the story until the last few paragraphs; the butler did NOT do it; all clues must be available to the reader etc.  This novel, like the other well known mysteries previously listed, cut close to one or more of these rules but defintely did lay all the clues out fairly for the reader to find.  It will be the very rare reader, however, who does manage to solve this puzzle before all is revealed in the final chapter.does manage to solve this puzzle before all is revealed in the final chapter.	2004-05-03
US	49111640	R1PS3WJED5SW0W	0425105679	114982310	Cards on the Table (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Introducing Ariadne Oliver	While at an art gallery opening Hercule Poirot makes the aquaintance of Mr. Shaitana, an eccentric collector of art and curiosities.  Among his curiosities Mr. Shaitana includes a few murderers who have managed not to be caught, or even be seriously under suspicion.  Shaitana decides that he would like to have a dinner party to show off his collection and to that end, he invites four murderers and four detectives.  During the dinner he drops a few not so subtle hints about what he knows and sits back to watch the 'fun'.  The fun takes an unexpected turn during the after dinner bridge games, the host is murdered.<br />The detectives on the case are Poirot, Col. Race from the Foreign Office, Sgt. Battle (THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS and THE SEVEN DIALS MYSTERY) and Ariadne Oliver, mystery writer (DEAD MAN'S FOLLY and THE PALE HORSE).  The murderers include Dr. Roberts, who may have killed a patient; Col. Despard, who may have killed the husband of the woman he loved; Mrs. Lorrimar, whose husband died under 'usual circumstances' and Miss Meredith whose former employer died of an accidental poisoning.<br />The detectives decide to try to uncover the murderer themselves, each has their own ideas about who did it and why and each goes about the investigation in their own way.  The plot takes many interesting twists and turns.  Just when it appears that all has been revealed Christie gives one of her characteristic twists .<br />The main reason that I feel that this is a four, not a five star novel is the emphasis placed on the bridge game.  As a non-bridge player I felt that there was a vital clue that I was missing even though it was right there in front of me.  In fairness it is possible to solve the crime without the bridge game clues but   it was still frustrating while reading the story.	2004-05-02
US	49111640	RF3HU8R3EY0N4	0312981716	768754381	The Pale Horse (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A departure from the usual for Dame Agatha	This 1961 novel is not a part of any of Christie's more famous series (Poirot, Miss Marple or Tommy and Tuppence) but does include some &quot;old friends&quot; from other books:  the Dane Calthrops (THE MOVING FINGER), Rhoda and Major Despard (THE CARD ON THE TABLE) and Ariadne Oliver, the famous mystery writer who has appeared in several Poirot stories.  The PALE HORSE is one of the novels that is as much romance and mystery.<br />The story is told by Mark Easterbrook, a writer who had taken up residence in the Chelsea district of London while working on his latest book on Mogul culture.  He stopped into a coffee shop for a quick meal and witnessed an argument between two young women that ended with one pulling out a handful of hair from the other.  The unfortunate woman's unusual name - Thomasina Tuckerton - stuck with Easterbrook.  He was surprised when he saw it a week later, in the obituaries.<br />Easterbrook went on about his life, meeting with his friend, Ariadne Oliver, traveling to the country to visit his cousin, and going out with his long-time girlfriend Hermia Redcliffe.  Meanwhile the police begin to investigate the murder of a priest who was killed on his way home from hearing a last confession.  They found a list of names stuffed into the priest's shoe, including the name of the police inspector.  The two threads of the story meet and continue to weave throughout London, out to the country, on to Birmingham and returning to London.  On the way the path leads to witchcraft, deathrays, and murder for hire.<br />The mystery here appears to be more a how-it-was-done than a who- done-it although Christie has once again lead us down the garden path to a surprise finish.	2004-05-01
US	49111640	R3FTTG8XDKTJ6O	0425098532	692503064	Sad Cypress: A Hercule Poirot Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A poisoned love triangle	This 1939 novel has been compared to the 1930 STRONG POISON by Dorothy Sayers.  Both novels begin with the courtroom observations of a young woman accused of murder by poisoning.  Both young women are befriended by a young man who sets out to clear her of the crime and fall in love with her in the process.  Christie's rescuer is named Peter Lord while Sayers' is, of course, Lord Peter.  Even with these similarities the two stories, although both excellent, are vastly different.<br />Elinor Carlisle had an understanding with her cousin-by-marriage Roderick Welman, that one day they would wed, live happily in their mutual Aunt Laura's country house with her considerable fortune somehow split between them.  The plan suited them all, Elinor, Roddy and Aunt Laura. Aunt Laura was now in failing health and was being cared for by nurses, her servants, a doctor and Mary, a young woman who had grown up on the estate and of whom Aunt Laura had always been quite fond...perhaps too fond for Elinor and Roddy's own good.<br />Aunt Laura died, not to anyone's surprise but had left no will, much to everyone's surprise.  As her only living blood relative Elinor inherited everything - lucky Elinor!  Except Mary was so lovely, and Roddy so smitten with her that the engagement was called off.  Then Mary died, of poison and Elinor was the only one of could have committed the crime.<br />Dr. Lord made an impassioned plea to Hercule Poirot to prove Elinor innocent - if she was in fact innocent.  Poirot reluctantly agrees and begins to sort through motives, love affairs and long buried secrets to arrive at the truth.<br />The opening is dramatic altough it causes the problem of making the most sympathetic character, Mary, known to the read as the victim.  The questions remain, however, of who did it, why, and how for the reader to try to puzzle through before Poirot reveals all.	2004-05-01
US	49111640	R1MOCBIFFZBRHM	0451199871	188735593	The Body in the Library (Miss Marple)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Miss Marple to the rescue	Dolly Bantry was slowly waking to the usual sounds of her well run household.  Her peaceful, predictable life was thoroughly disrupted when her maid entered, bringing not the expected morning tea, but news of a body in the library!  Not only a body, but a young woman! Platinum blonde no less!   When her husband could supply no explanation for this occurance Dolly did the only sensible thing - she called her friend and neighbor, Jane Marple.<br />Miss Marple set about her inquiries and, aided by the police, began to sort out the mess.  The trail led to the film industry and then to the nearby seaside resort of Danemouth where the wealthy guests and the staff of the Majestic Hotel become embroiled in the mystery.  Ultimately Miss Marple solves the crime, bringing the culprits to justice and saving her friends from a life time of suspicion.<br />This 1941 work reflects small town English life and morals of the time.  The reader needs to keep this mind and not try to see the story in a more contremporary light.  It mattered very much at that time whether or not a couple was married or living in sin, teenage girls could be convinced that a talent scout could pick them out of a crowd and the suspicion of a middle-aged man's daliance with a young woman would lead to social exclusion for the whole family.  <br />The plot is, as always in a Christie mystery, fairly laid out with all the clues available to the reader.  While the reader may get a suspicion of a red herring and even narrow the field of suspects I doubt that any will arrive at all the answers before Miss Marple reveals all.	2004-04-30
US	49111640	R1B2V2QNGN1QG9	0061043516	375505956	Busman's Honeymoon: A Lord Peter Wimsey Mystery with Harriet Vane	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A romance with detective interruptions	This is the 13th Lord Peter novel, and the fourth in the Lord Peter/Harriet Vane story.  This is definitely NOT a good place to begin the series.<br />BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON begins shortly after GAUDY NIGHT.  The opening chapter consists of letters and diary enteries from their family and friends concerning the wedding.  For fans of the series these are hilarious portraits of the various characters, the delightful Dowager Duchess, the obnoxious Duchess of Denver, the unflappable Bunter and others.  <br />The newly wed Wimseys take up the action after their escape from the reception as they drive to their honeymoon destination, their newly purchased weekend cottage, 'Talboys'.  The carefully arranged plans for a peaceful honemoon begin to come apart at their arrival. The house is cold, dark and locked, the former owner nowhere to be found, and no one apears to be aware of their pending arrival.  These obstacles are overcome, the family takes up residence but the next day the missing former owner turns up - dead in the basement.<br />Naturally the Wimseys solve the crime as they sort out the details of their new life.<br />The only flaw I see with this novel is that the mystery aspect is a bit labored.  Sayers was quite fond of the 'time-table' sort of mystery but tended to belabor the point.   This,  coupled with the array of characters/suspects that appear and are all given quite a lot of action, cause the story to drag a bit.  Still, the solution is clever, the characters are charming and the scenes between Peter and Harriet are gems, finally resolving their 5 year (and 4 book) romance. <br />The biggest problem with this novel is that it is the last full-length book in the series.    Even though we were given farewell glimpses of many old friends from earlier books it is still sad to say goodbye.	2004-04-30
US	49111640	R3CVH6IPGRSC3T	0061043494	769540204	Gaudy Night (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A detective story with romantic interruptions	This 1936 novel is the 12th Lord Peter novel.  Lord Peter Wimsey (for anyone not familiar with the series) is the very wealthy younger brother of the Duke of Denver.  He is a very sought after man about town, &quot;lends a hand at the Foreign Office from time to time&quot; and pokes his nose into private detection from time to time.<br />Five years before (STRONG POISON) he saved the unjustly accused Harriet Vane, a well-known mystery writer, from execution for the murder of her former lover. During the case Peter fell head over heels in love with Harriet who was too upset to even consider romance.  Their romance proceeded in this very one-sided manner for five years.<br />GAUDY NIGHT focuses on Harriet and her detection efforts.  She has been invited by an ill college friend to attend the &quot;Gaudy&quot;, and end of term celebration at their alma mater, the fictional Shrewesbury College at Oxford.  Harriet reluctantly agrees and finds herself embroiled in a poison pen campaign that has been plaguing the college.  She takes up residence in the college to try to get to the bottom of the problem.  <br />During her time there she makes the acquaintance of Lord Peter's nephew, Viscount St. George, and through him, begins to see her persistant suitor in a new light.  When Peter himself appears Harriet finds facets of him that she had not seen before. Working together they solve to problem of the poison pen and resolve the long standing romantic issues as well.<br />Those looking for a 'straight' detective novel like some of the earlier Lord Peter stories will probably be frustrated by this one although the mystery is challenging, in and of itself would it would justify a long short story at best.  Those looking for a romance story to resolve this long courtship will be even more frustrated by the very scant amount of interaction between the 'lovers'. <br />So just what makes this worth 5 stars?  Harriet Vane finally emerges as a character every bit as complex and interesting as Peter.  Do read this one and the next book, BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON.	2004-04-29
US	49111640	R54ETV5K07F6K	0446601934	922692393	The Mummy Case	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The men in Amelia's life	are giving her fits!  First there is her handsome, brilliant husband, Radcliffe Emerson, the emminent Egyptologist who finds himself once again being dragged away from his work by Amelia's escapades.  Then the mysterious Master Criminal again wrecks havoc in the lives of the Emersons and their friends.  The most exasperating 'man' in Amelia's life, however, turns out to be her precocious son 'Ramses'.  By the time most children are struggling with their ABCs Ramses can both speak and read several languages including Arabic and was well versed in the family vocation of Eqyptology.      The Emersons set out for another season digging for ancient Eqyptian artifacts but soon find themselves swept up by a series of more modern mysteries and adventures.    The most charming aspects of this series are the hilarious Emerson family.  Amelia and her tendancy to overestimate her abilities, and  Emerson and his tendancy to underestimate them, are both confounded by their son's talents to keep them both struggling to keep up.      Ramses has a speech impediment (affectation?) that the author uses, I believe, to remind the reader that he is very young.  The first few times it appears this device is rather cute but it does begin to wear thin after a time.  He does outgrow it later in the series so bear with it for now.  His precociousness brings a smile to anyone who can recall putting one over on an adult and  bit of chagrin to any parent who has had a child put one over on them.    I love this series, particularly watching the characters grow and change with the times.  The mysteries are intriguing, the action exciting and the comedy is delightful.	2004-04-26
US	49111640	R1M51KCJA4OOFY	031298166X	361041787	Crooked House (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Disturbing but one of Christie's best	This work is darker than most of Christie's work, the ending is disturbing but it is one of her best.<br />In war-time Egypt two young people, Charles Hayward and Sophia Leonides, met and fell in love.  They are separated by their duties but keep in touch and plan to met after the war.  When they are finally able to be together again in England Sophia and her family are under suspicion for the murder of her grandfather.  Charles attempts to solve the crime and becomes immersed in his future in-laws lives.<br />Who has commited the crime and why?  Was it the old man's young bride and her lover?  Or was it one of his disappointing sons?  Perhaps his dead wife's sister who despised him or one of his daughters-in-law, or someone else....<br />This 1951 story is another of Christie's dysfunctional family studies but most other aspects of this one are departures from her usual style.  First the patriarch of the family dominates by affection and kindness not fear and bullying.  Also this is not one of her series, the detective and narrator, Charles Hayward, appears in this book only.<br />The writers of Christie's day laid down certain rules of dective fiction, no unknown poisons or death rays, the butler did not do it, all clues must be fairly laid out for the reader etc.  Christie adhered to these rules (although she sometimes interpreted them in unusual ways) and did absolutely in CROOKED HOUSE.  The clues are all there for the reader to follow and yet I believe that, for most readers, the solution will come as a surprise.	2004-04-26
US	49111640	RGXN6E8L6OBSG	0451201167	998599484	The Moving Finger (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	almost a 5	The narrator of the 1942 story is Jerry Burton, an RAF pilot who was sent to recuperate from a crash in a quiet environment.  Jerry and his sister Johanna moved to an out of the way little village but soon found that life there would be anything but peaceful. The first unsettling event was the arrival of a poison pen letter, an occurance that made them part of the village.  Most of the rest of the town had gotten one already.  Just as they were getting acquainted with their neighbors there was a suicide, or was it murder?<br />As time passed there were more letters, more deaths and romances.  A less skillful writer would have made a confused mess of all of the various threads but Christie keeps the focus on the mystery while maintaining the romance as an interesting subplot.<br />The story has worn well in the intervening fifty years.  The only dated aspect is that women's lives were more restricted then.  So why is this story an 'almost' 5?  The problem is that Miss Marple arrives on the scene about 3/4 of the way through the book and then does very little.  For Miss Marple fans this is not nearly enough of her.  In my opinion Christie should have either brought her in sooner or left her out altogether.  <br />Despite this THE MOVING FINGER is an excellent story and one of Christie's most memorable stories.	2004-04-25
US	49111640	R2K9OGNG8ULBWM	0451200519	583301746	4:50 from Paddington (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Don't miss this one!	Elspeth McGillicuddy had spent a busy day Christmas shopping in London so when she settled into her comfortable 1st class train compartment on her way to visit her friend it was natural that she dozed off for a few minutes.  It was most unsettling that she woke up just in time to see a murder being committed in a passing train.  It was understandable that the train conducter did not believe this elderly lady's fantastic story.  It was fortunate that Mrs. McGillicuddy's friend  was none other than Jane Marple.    Miss Marple believed her friend was not imagining whole thing.  When the police found no evidence of the crime Miss Marple began to investigate for herself. She located the most likely place a body could be disposed of, a large estate owned by the Crackenthorpe family and arranged for a confederate, Lucy Eyelesbarrow to work for the family.    The Crackenthorpe family is another of Christie's large dysfunctional families dominated by a disagreeable father (Luther), downtrodden daughter (Emma), ambitious son (Harold) and a pair of blacksheep - the artistic Cedric and the slightly crooked Alfred.  Two other siblings have died, Edmund and Edith.  Edith's husband, Bryan and son, Alexander are also part of the household.      The body is found, more murders commited, the culprit unmasked and the true motive revealed in dramitic fashion by Miss Marple.    Along the way romance flourishes and leaves the reader with an unanswered question.      The family is very much like characters from similiar families in other books, (HERCULE POIROT'S CHRISTMAS, A POCKET FULL OF RYE, CROOKED HOUSE and others).  This, coupled with the various titles  this story has had over the years - WHAT MRS. McGILLICUDDY SAW, EYEWITNESS TO MURDER and MURDER SHE SAID, could lead a reader to think they had read this one before.  Do not pass this one by,  it is worth reading for the delightful Lucy Eyelesbarrow alone!	2004-04-25
US	49111640	RF7T7Q9DGM2LQ	0515136352	744892144	Short and Tall Tales: Moose County Legends (Cat Who Short Stories)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Retelling of 'tales' from the CAT WHO series	If you are a fan of the series (as I am) you have probably already read these tall tales in the series itself.  If you are not already familiar with the series you might enjoy the stories in and of themselves but will probably not 'get it' that the author is a fiction character or the references to Moose county.<br />This is an acceptable book for a lazy day read or to take with while waiting for an appointment but it is basically a way for the publisher to separate fans of the series from their money.	2004-04-23
US	49111640	R113E2FR8B7O2C	0451199863	931136086	A Pocket Full of Rye (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another of Dame Agatha's Twisted Nursery Rhymes	Christie wrote several books with nursery rhymes themes, HICKORY DICKORY DEATH being another.  She also dealt with dysfunctional families several times, HERCULE POIROT'S CHRISTMAS and 4:50 FROM PADDINGTON were two.  In this work she combined the two ideas.<br />Rex Fortescue was a very rich and quite unpleasant man.  He ran his family and his business with an iron fist.  One morning his very efficient secretary took in his morning tea and found him dying.  While investigating his death the police were met with one puzzle after another, what killed Mr. Fortescue?, how was it administered? and why did he have a pocket full of rye grain?  As they were beginning to get some answers another murder occurred and then yet another each bringing more confusion to the scene.<br />Jane Marple arrives to the house and begins to sort through the tangle of clues to steer the police in the right direction.<br />This story may seem quite familiar.  The Fortescue family is Christie's standard - domineering, wealthy father who keeps most of his family trapped in the family home, under his control.  An errant &quot;black sheep&quot; child returns just as the murders begin and there are many family secrets. <br />Although the story is somewhat formulistic it is still a well told tale and a fairly laid out puzzle.  All the clues are there for the reader to use to try to solve the mystery before the last chapter.  The only drawbacks for Miss Marple fans are that Miss Marple doesn't arrive nearly half way through the book and that it is not set in St. Mary Mead.	2004-04-20
US	49111640	RRZFXXU8AIADE	0380731215	773842162	Street of the Five Moons (A Vicky Bliss Mystery)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Vicky mets John in Rome	while tracking down piece of a piece of jewelry that may have been stolen from her museum in Munich.  While in Rome Vicky meets an interesting group of characters including the enigmatic Sir John Smythe who will appear in the rest of the series.  Together they sort out the mystery of the jewelry, uncover frauds, solve murdersm have narrow escapes...well you get the idea.    For fans of the series this is the first appearance of Caesar as well as John Smith.      It is adventure, romance, mystery and action in a romantic setting with a comic touch.  This is a fun read perfect for a few lazy hours of relaxation and escapism guaranteed totally devoid of of any socially relevant content.	2004-04-03
US	49111640	R1CVZOA9M2GPSV	0140025472	413421859	Summer Moonshine	Books	5	3	4	N	N	When you need a bit of summer...	stretch out with this for a little get away.  The setting is a rambling late Victorian monstrosity country house somewhere in the English countryside during the 1930's. The characters include the Lord of the manor, his family and staff and the guests that are paying to stay there. In typical Wodehouse fashion there are several plots that begin separately and then entertwine in a marvolously convoluted manner to produce delightfuly absurd situations.  <br />There are no appearances by Jeeves or Wooster in this one but the results are still delightful.	2004-04-02
US	49111640	R2YXZHZ1T9OZ1U	0425177416	945670752	Hercule Poirot's Christmas	Books	4	2	3	N	N	And you thought your family holidays were stressful!	Simeon Lee was not a nice man. He was, however, very rich.  His chief form of amusement since his retirement from business was to torment his sons and their wives.  All, including the long absent black sheep of the family, are summoned to spent Christmas in the isolated family home.  They are joined by a never before met granddaughter and the son of a former business partner.  Before the the holidays are over Simeon is found dead in a locked room, diamonds are missing and suspicion is cast over the whole household.<br />In the hands of an author less skilled than Christie this would be just another locked room murder but Christie brings the story to life.  As always her characters seem real, her detective (Poirot) is marvelously quirky and even if the reader should happen to solve the crime first it is still a fun read.<br />This book has been published under several titles, always a problem with Christie's works, which can lead a reader to inadvertently pick up a 'new' book only to discover an old friend in disguise.  To further complicate matters the basic premise of this work is very much the same as 4:50 From Paddington - a Miss Marple story.	2004-03-30
US	49111640	R1OYKJ2J7B7D90	0445402296	320900982	The Murder of Richard III	Books	3	6	8	N	N	I wanted to like this more, really I did....	I am a big Elizabeth Peters fan, I like the Jacqueline Kirby character, love isolated-house-party mysteries, I'm even interested in English history but I did find this a bit of an effort to get through.  It is NOT up to the standards of SEVENTH SINNER much less the Amelia Peabody series.<br />Jacqueline Kirby is visiting England, she mets an old friend and former colleague, Thomas, who invites her to join him at a country house party/seminar.  The purpose of the group is the study of Richard III, particularly establishing his innocence.  The usual eccentric cast of characters is assembled and the requisite series of attacks begins.  Naturally Jacqueline solves the crime before anyone else.<br />On the plus side we get to see more of Ms Kirby in action, learn a bit more about her life (is there a MR Kirby?) and see her solve another interesting mystery.  One the negative side we meet a bewildering array of characters who are sometimes referred to by their first names, other times by their last or by the character they are portraying at a costume party.  The plot development is a bit ragged and the descriptions of the characters is not always consistent.  I found myself backing up and re-reading some sections in order to follow the story which is a bit more work than this type of story warrents.  <br />If you are a Jacqueline Kirby fan you will want to read this one but if you are filling time until your next Amelia Peabody fix you might want to try something else.	2004-02-17
US	49111640	RX7J1ZSH9LJD4	0812507509	945791839	Legend In Green Velvet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Adventure and Romance in Scotland	Susan, a young American graduate student, has always been fascinated with Scotland.  She has immersed herself in Scottish history, studied hard at school, saved her money and is now in Scotland preparing to spend the summer working on a dig of a Pictish site.  Life is perfect until she is approached by an eccentric street person, has her hotel room searched and finds herself and a new acquaintence accused of murder and chased across the Highlands.<br />It's a light fun read but the plot is rather contrived.  Susan's character is annoyingly inconsistent.  She is presented as bright and well educated but then she is shown wandering off with people she just met and allowing herself to be talked into doing things she knows she should not do.  <br />If you are looking for an enjoyable way to kill some time this will do but don't expect anything on a par with an Amelia Peabody because this isn't it.  <br />One interesting tidbit, Susan's professor back home in Illinois is Dr. Arnold Bliss....I wonder is he's any relation to Vicky?	2004-02-17
US	49111640	R1JLQQI19XT9IS	0886774713	727303671	Blood Price: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Interesting premise	Vicki Nelson had been a cop on the Toronto police force until she was forced to retire 8 months ago due to a degenerative eye disease.  She decided to become a PI but business had been slow until a murder took place right before her.  The investigation brought her back into contact with her former police partner, Mike Cellini and also with a world she had only known as fiction.  Vicki met Hugh Fitzroy, a vampire.  The three pursue their separate paths to stop the wave of murders that is sweeping Toronto.  Paths that lead from the university scene into the realm of demons.<br />The characters are interesting and promise to become more so as the series continues.  The plot is well thought out and exciting.<br />This is a thriller, not a mystery as the culprit is known from the beginning.  The interest comes from how the problem is solved and in the development of the characters.  I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.	2004-02-16
US	49111640	RFXOAFKYMFW8X	0380733390	153349526	Borrower of the Night: The First Vicky Bliss Mystery	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The first 'Vicky Bliss' mystery	This is the introductory book of the Vicky Bliss series.  Dr Bliss is an art historian teaching in a small midwestern college.  She has decided never to marry since she has discovered that the only thing that intimidates most men more than a tall woman is a smart tall woman and Vicky is both.  Another member of the faculty, Tony, is also tall and smart and quite taken with Vicky.  The two stumble across a reference to a long missing art work and are soon off to Germany to track it down, in competition with each other.  They find that they are not the only ones seeking this piece.  The trail leads to a castle turned hotel complete with a ghost, secret passages and damsel in distress.  <br />This book was written in 1973 and does show its age a bit.  If you are looking for the mysterious John Smythe of the later books he does not appear here but we do get the first appearance of Schmidt.  While she is not as captivating a Amelia Peabody, Vicky is charming in her own way.  The series makes for an enjoyable, light hearted read.	2004-02-15
US	49111640	R156VEGZVE8DHV	0380733374	128092660	Silhouette In Scarlet: A Vicky Bliss Mystery	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The Continuing Adventures of Vicky	Vicky Bliss, an art historian now working at a Munich museum, is a bit frustrated with the dull, rainy late spring Munich weather.  Life is a bit boring after some of her recent adventures but that changes when she opens a package containing a one-way ticket (coach) to Sweden, a two word Latin message and a single red rose.  This has to be the work of the mysterious John Smythe so naturally Vicky is soon on her way to Stockholm.  Others seem to be interested in her travel plans as well and Vicky quickly finds herself again involved in international intrigues of amazing proportions.<br />As with the rest of this series there are complicated intrigues, amazing conicidences, exciting chases and a cliff hanging ending all linked by Vicky wry observations on life and love.	2004-02-15
US	49111640	RFC2RNOZ6BWAG	0445407786	667173060	The Seventh Sinner	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The first in the Jacqueline Kirby series	The story centers on a group of graduate students studying art and history in Rome.  Two of the group met middle aged librarian Jacqueline Kirby and introduce her to their group, the Seven Sinners.  A hanger on of the group is found murdered, found by a member of the group and possibly also murdered by a member of the group.  One of the group, Jean, begins to have a series of accidents that soon become more violent and appear less and less accidental.  Jacqueline Kirby decides to investigate this matter and, of course, manages to uncover both murderer and motive.<br />This book was written in 1972 and does show it's age a bit, hence the 4 rather than 5 stars.  Even though this is the first Jacqueline Kirby details about her are left vague.  We learn there are grown children but nothing about a Mr. Kirby.   <br />The book is enjoyable and I look forward to reading the rest of the series.	2004-02-15
US	49111640	R12ZQ4JGIOMG6A	0886777844	787755626	Summon the Keeper (Keeper's Chronicles)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Read this BEFORE you clean the basement....	and you will probably decide to just leave it messy.<br />Claire Hansen and her cat Austin have sought refuge in the rather seedy Elysian Fields Guest House not because it was late at night, pouring rain and the only place that had both a vacancy and allowed pets (though those were factors) but Claire had been summoned to the site. She is a descendant of Adam and his first wife, Lilith and therefore has a responsibility to help keep good and evil balanced.  The Guest House has a portal to Hell in the basement and  a 'guest' who has been in a trance in room 6 for decades.  On the plus side there's also a charming ghost and a hunky handyman.<br />Claire's job is to seal the portal so she can move on to the next  site but she also has to deal with the various guests who check into the house, (vampires, retired Olympians, werewolves) cope with a nosy neighbor and a weekend with her teenage sister.  Added to all this is an ethical question, must a charming man be avoided just because he is too young or too dead?<br />This is not a serious horror story - this book is seriously funny.  It is the first of a series, I can't wait to get to the rest.	2004-02-14
US	49111640	R1U6FA3C658V6O	0312968302	322969225	Thrones, Dominations (A Lord Peter Wimsey Mystery)	Books	4	46	49	N	N	It's good to see the Wimseys again	When I finished reading the last page of the last Lord Peter story I was sad because there weren't anymore and since Ms Sayers had died there weren't going to be anymore.  I was delighted when I discovered that someone had picked up the story. Is Ms Walsh's writing just the same as Ms Sayers?  No, of course not, but she does have a good feel for the subject, I enjoyed THRONES, DOMINATIONS greatly.<br />The story picks up a few months after BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON.  Lord Peter and Harriet have returned to their London residence,  Harriet is still trying to adjust to her new lifestyle and both are struggling with Peter's family.  A murder takes place involving a young couple with which they are acquainted.  Peter and Parker solve the crime with the assistance of Harriet and Bunter.<br />The scenes of the Wimseys' domestic life are wonderful, and well written.  Harriet finally standing up to her overbearing sister-in-law is fantastic!  There are many delightful journal enteries from the Dowager Duchess as well as scenes with many old friends from previous novels.   <br />The flaws I found were really more in the editing than the writing.  Some passages could have been trimmed a bit, perhaps others even eliminated since fans of Lord Peter and Harriet Vane really don't need to be reminded of the back story.  More details about the time period, particularly Edward and Mrs Simpson, the rise of Hitler and the changing of societal rules were added in this work than in the original stories but Ms Sayers was writing for a contemporary audience while Ms Walsh's readers are separated from the era by seventy years.	2004-02-13
US	49111640	R2N7619FDTK88S	0515136557	685215703	The Cat Who Brought Down the House	Books	5	2	3	N	N	for Moose County fans - 3 for anyone else	Jim Qwilleran (Qwill to his friends) is a wealthy bachelor who writes a newspaper column for the local paper. He and his two cats, are stars of a long running series of very mild 'cozy' mysteries.  This one, #25, beginnings with the announced pending return to Moose county (located 400 miles north of everywhere) of Thelma Thackeray who had spent the last 55 years in California.  Qwill's initial reaction is a suspicion that this is an April Fool's prank but after a little invesitgation discovers it is not.<br />Thelma brings an interesting group with her when she arrives, a companion/assistant, a nephew, a group of parrots...a few mysteries.  Was her twin brother's accidental death really so accidental?  How can her very expensive Film Club do so well so quickly?  How did someone manage to kidnap a group of very vocal parrots so quietly?  Qwill and his cats manage to find all the answers despite the complications of some thefts, two murders and a local fund raiser.<br />For those who are fans of this series there are many bits of Moose County life, Polly, Qwill's lady friend, is beginning a new career, we learn more about Burgess Campbell and hear more   from other old friends.  If you are new to the series it would be better to begin with either THE CAT WHO READ BACKWARDS or THE CAT WHO PLAYED BRAHMS.	2004-02-12
US	49111640	R28IQEME86E9JE	0671822608	692503064	Evil Under the Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is a classic Christie	Poirot has traveled to a seaside resort seeking a vacation.  Naturally a murder soon occurs and Poirot is quickly doing what he does best, sorting through suspects to track down the murderer.  The search leads him through drug dealing, adulteries, family conflicts, blackmail and witchcraft.<br />The descriptions of the people at the resort are wonderful, the interactions among them are delightful.  The crime is done in a clever manner, the motives are plausible and, as always, Christie plays fairly with the reader.  All the clues are there among the red herrings for the reader to sort out.	2004-02-03
US	49111640	R3HYUQWEWZVW7Q	0451201205	865137997	The Secret Adversary (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Lighthearted FUN	This 1922 adventure is Christie's second novel. It does not feature Hercule Poirot but instead introduces Tommy and Tuppence.  The pair are childhood friends who went their separate ways during WWI and chance into each other in postwar London.  Both are trying to find jobs and are, like most of the other returning veterans, not having much success.  They hit on a plan to become 'adventurers' and soon find themselves caught up in a chain of events that had begun years before with the sinking of the Luisitania.  The plot is wildly fantastic involving international conspiracies, secret agents seeking secret documents, American millionaires and romance.<br />This is one of Christie's 'master criminal' stories, very much in the same vein as THE MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT and THE SEVEN DIALS MYSTERY among others.  If you enjoyed these or are a P. G. Wodehouse fan you'll love this one but if you are looking for a challenging or more realistic mystery look elsewhere.	2004-02-03
US	49111640	R17KPIJKJOTUQ0	042513024X	461985061	The A. B. C. Murders (A Hercule Poirot Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Darker Than Usual Tale	Poirot has gotten a letter challenging him to stop a murder.  He is  given the date and location, the letter is signed ABC.  The police dismiss the incident as yet another harmless crank letter - until a murder takes place on the day and time stated in the letter and an ABC railway guide is found on the scene.  More letters arrive and a pattern begins to form, the killer is working his way through victims and towns alphabetically - Ascher in Andover, Barnard in Bexhill, Clarke in Chruston...  Poirot and the police are in pursuit but always it seems a frustrating step behind.  Ultimately Poirot is successful of course.  The solution to the crime is clever and original, even by Christie standards.<br />This is a departure from the usual 'cozy' style that is more typical of Christie (ie confined location, murderer and victim know each other, motive clearly established, little focus on the crime itself).  This is darker than her usual work, the victims are seemingly chosen at random, the entire country is threatened, and the messages from the killer are reminiscent of Jack the Ripper.<br />Poirot gives a description of the killer based on the letters and evidence collected at the crime, in a manner that is very like a modern day profiler.  Keep in mind that this book was written nearly 80 years ago.<br />If you are a Christie fan this is definitely a must read but if you are looking for a more comfortable 'cozy' you may find this one a bit disturbing.	2004-02-02
US	49111640	R6XGFFXX860IJ	0312981597	902136592	Why Didn't They Ask Evans? (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This one is for FUN!	If you are looking for a challenging classic mystery problem try one of the next two, (MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS or THE ABC MURDERS) because this one is a light hearted romp.<br />The detectives in this story are Bobby Jones, 4th son of the local Vicar and Lady Frances Derwent, wealthy young socialite.  The two had been childhood friends have renewed their relationsonship while dealing with the mystery.  Bobby found a dying man while out golfing.  The man's dying words were \\"Why didn't they ask Evans?\\".  That simple question led the two detectives to ask many more, about the photo in the dead man's pocket, the family that came to claim the body and just who was the mysterious Evans to name a few.  The answers takes the two from their hometown in Wales, where the mystery starts to London and then throughout the English countryside ending with a dash via car and airplane back home again for the final answers.<br />WHY DIDN'T THEY ASK EVANS? is in the same spirit as THE MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT, THE SEVEN DIALS MYSTERY, THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS and the Tommy and Tuppence series.  There are exciting adventures, false identities, kidnappings, fantastic coincidences and more which make this just FUN!	2004-02-01
US	49111640	R1TK7QKKB20G6L	042509961X	590545700	Lord Edgware Dies (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	...and makes Poirot work the little grey cells very hard	Poirot and Hastings are enjoying an evening at the theater, watching the newest darling of the stage and her one-woman show of impersonations.  Soon afterwards Poirot is approached by another famous actress, Jane Wilkinson, for help with a small problem, she would like to be rid of her husband, Lord Edgware.  If Poirot could perhaps convince the gentleman to finally consent to a divorce it would be greatly appreciated otherwise she just might have to kill Lord Edgware herself!  Poirot reluctantly agrees to take on this uncharacteristic task (perhaps Hastings is not the only one with a weakness for a beautiful woman!) and finds that the gentleman is quite ready to divorce his wife.  All is well until Lord Edgware is murdered.<br />Poirot begins to ferret out the murderer and soon discovers that there were many who would like to see Lord Edgware dead.  The detective is lead down many blind alleys until a chance remark leads him to the truth.<br />This was an immensely popular book when it was first published in 1933 and has held up quite well in the intervening 70 years.  It is interesting to read this book and the one following, WHY DIDN'T THEY ASK EVANS? to see how Christie could take a simple phrase and turn it into two totally different stories.	2004-02-01
US	49111640	R15L8D8AQSQCPI	0425130258	545401287	Peril at End House (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Rules are made to be broken...	Mystery writers are supposed to play by a set of rules, ie give the reader all the clues, no rare, undetectable poisons, the murder can't be the butler, detective, victim or someone we've never met etc. Agatha Christie always played fair in that all the clues were present for the reader, and she didn't rely on obscure poisons unknown-to-science but she was somewhat more creative in her interpretations of some of the others.  PERIL AT END HOUSE is an example of Christie's creativeness with one of the rules of mystery writing (but you'll have to read the book to find out which rule).<br />Poirot and Hastings are spending some time at a seaside resort.  Poirot is still insisting that he has retired but concedes that \\"...if a bullet should strike the wall by my head, I would ...investigate the matter!\\"  Needless to say one does and Poirot is soon investigating the numerous attempts on the life of a young woman.  Poirot sorts his way through a murder, drug trafficking, false identities, secret engagements and attempted  frauds to reach the truth.<br />The ending is clever and we are treated to Poirot being forced to ask someone else for the answer to a minor secondary puzzle.	2004-01-31
US	49111640	R722O2DDR6PEM	0451201159	577200811	Murder at the Vicarage (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Meet Miss Marple	This is the first Miss Marple stories and set the stage for the rest of the series. Miss Jane Marple is an elderly spinster of modest means,a life-long resident of the tiny village of St. Mary Mead, an advid gardener and bird watcher and a most astute observer of human nature.  Many of the residents and visitors of St. Mary Mead that will return in later works are introduced here, the gentle vicar and his lively younger wife, Raymond West, Jane's novelist nephew and others.  <br />The story is told by the vicar and gives us many insights into his homelife.  Col. Protheroe is found murdered in the vicarage, much to the delight of his wife and daughter and embarrassment of the vicar.  As the local police try to solve the crime it become apparent that Col. Protheroe was not going to be missed and that nobody really had an alibi.  As the investigation progresses it seems that more questions are raised than answered.  Ultimately it is Miss Marple who resolves the issues of love affairs, mysterious strangers, and assorted lies to uncover the true culprit.<br />This is a perfect gem, Christie at her best.  The characters are  well written and the descriptions of the lack of privacy in a small are incredibly accurate and a recurring theme of Christie's.  In typical Christie style of the rules of detection are flirted with but the clues are fairly laid out for the reader to follow, if they can be separated from the red herrings.	2004-01-30
US	49111640	RWO7SI0V88JPB	0312979819	487153373	The Sittaford Mystery (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Murder in an isolated house on a wind swept moor	Sittaford House is located in an isolated spot in Dartmoor.  Most of the inhabitants of the tiny village are gathered at Sittaford House for an afternoon seance.  A 'message from beyond' indicates that Captain Trevelyan has been murdered.  The Captain is spending the winter 6 miles away in Exhampton, there is a raging snow storm making the road impassable to the town's only car and there no telephones in the village.  The Captain's best friend Major Burnaby decides that he will make the 6 mile trip to see his friend despite the impending blizzard.  When he arrives he finds the Captain has been murdered.<br />Numerous suspects begin to present themselves.  The most obvious is the Captain's nephew James who is promptly charged with the crime.  James' fiancee Emily arrives on the scene and begins to unearth more possiblities and questions.  She is aided by a newspaper reporter who is in the area on another matter.  Between them they discover that James is not the only heir who was in the area the night of the murder.  They also begin to ask questions about the other inhabitants of Sittaford and discover that a surprising number of them seem to have secrets in their past.  In the end all is resolved although this is one of Christie's less convincing solutions.<br />The setting of a lonely house in Dartmoor is very reminiscent of THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES, down to the escaped convict hiding in a cave on the moor.  The novel also forshadows other works by Christie herself, most notable THE MOUSETRAP.  The heroine, Emily Trefusis, has much in common with Lucy Eyelesbarrow (who will appear 20 years later) particularly the problem of choosing between two suitors, one who needs her and one who doesn't.	2004-01-30
US	49111640	R399J2TRZIX2SG	0425174727	41460816	Poirot Investigates (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Poirot and Hastings as their most Holmes and Watson	This is the first collection of Poirot short stories, originaly published in 1924.  Christie appears to have been very heavily influenced by the Sherlock Holmes stories while writing these. The relationship between Poirot and Hastings is very like that of Holmes/Watson, the stories in general are reminiscent of some of the Sherlock Holmes stories, particularly \\"The Veiled Lady\\" and \\"A Scandal in Bohemia\\".  While the tone and settings of the stories are somewhat derivative the solutions are pure Christie.<br />The stories included in this collection are:<BR>The Adventure of the Western Star<BR>The Tragedy of Marsdon Manor<BR>The Adventure of the Cheap Flat<BR>The Mystery of Hunter's Lodge<BR>The Million Dollar Bond Robbery<BR>The Adventure of the Egyptian Tomb<BR>The Jewel Robbery at the Grand Metropolitan<BR>The Kidnapped Prime Minister<BR>The Disappearance of Mr. Davenheim<BR>The Adventure of the Italian Nobleman<BR>The Case of the Missing Will<BR>The Veiled Lady<BR>The Lost Mine<BR>The Chocolate Box	2004-01-27
US	49111640	R1B8YBSL81JB0W	0312979770	480557536	The Seven Dials Mystery (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Secret of Chimneys Part 2	THE SEVEN DIALS MYSTERY is set 4 years after THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS (1929&amp;1925) and also takes place in that 'Stately Home' Chimneys. <br />Lord Caterham has taken his family, including oldest daughter 'Bundle' AKA Lady Eileen, abroad in search of peace and quiet after all the excitement that had occured in THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS.  He has leased Chimneys to Sir Oswald and Lady Coote who have decided to have one last weekend party before their lease ended.  The house is filled with 'bright young things' but one of the party, Gerry Wade has been a difficult guest in that he was consistently late to  breakfast. That was bad enough but then he was found dead one morning.<br />After the Cootes moved out and the Caterhams returned, Bundle found herself bored with country life and decided to return to London.  On the way she ran into (literally)a young man, his dying words to her &quot;Seven Dials...tell....Jimmy Thesiger&quot; set Bundle and her friends on the trail of a mystery.<br />Bundle and Bill Eversleigh (also in THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS) are reunited as they try to solve the murders and the secret of the Seven Dials.  False identities, red herrings and secret societies abound until Bundle and Bill, with the aid of Superintendent Battle resolve the mysteries.<br />This, like THE SECRET OF CHIMNEYS, is Agatha Christie a la P. G Wodehouse.  Far from the serious mystery that Christie is famous for, this is a comedy with mystery overtones.  If you like Wodehouse you'll like this book, but if you are looking for a serious puzzler look elsewhere.	2004-01-27
US	49111640	R180QRP9YLEJP	0312979746	518513211	The Secret of Chimneys	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A. Christie + P. G. Wodehouse=delightful mystery farce	This 1925 novel begins in Africa with the chance meeting of two old friends, young men out to see the world.  As they catch up with each other they discover that one is working at a job he hates and the other wants to be in two places at once.  Since they resemble each other at least superficially one decides to impersonate the other.  <br />When the imposter, Anthony Cade, arrives in England he has two errands to complete for his friend, Jimmy McGrath, the first to deliver a manuscript and the other to return a package of indiscrete letters to a lady.  Cade is soon swept up in a tangle of intrigue that leads him to one of England most famous 'Stately Homes' - Chimneys.<br />At Chimneys all the various threads come together involving state secrets, murder, secret passages, secret societies and romance.  All is well in the end setting the stage for the return of Chimneys and its delightful resident family in the SEVEN DIALS MYSTERY.  <br />This is a comic mystery story with many of the characters and much of the plot sounding as much P. G. Wodehouse as Agatha Christie.  For those looking for a serious mystery look else where.  There is no Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple (although Superintendant Battle makes his first appearance) here but instead a delightful departure from Christie's usual style	2004-01-26
US	49111640	R3U17364AE3JO7	0425173895	121809515	The Murder of Roger Ackroyd (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is why Agatha Christie is the 'Queen of Crime'	Hercule Poirot has lost interest in the dective business since the departure of Hastings to South America.  He has retired to a small village to grow vegetable marrows and live a quiet life.  He discovers that vegetable marrows do not grow in an orderly manner and that crime does not limit itself to the city.  <br />The village is buzzing with gossip about the suicide of a local well to do widow and then is sent reeling by the murder of Roger Ackroyd, the wealthiest man in town.  Poirot is drawn into these problems by Ackroyd's niece, Flora and finds himself not only dealing with murder but also with blackmail, petty theft and romance.<br />In Hastings absence the story is told by the local doctor who is also a next door neighbor of Hercule Poirot.<br />When this novel came out in 1926 it was immensely popular and somewhat controversial in that it broke one of the 'rules' for a good dectective novel (and you will have to read the book to find out which one).  THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD ranks with AND THEN THERE WERE NONE (AKA TEN LITTLE INDIANS) and MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS as Christie at her most orginal.  <br />This story is also significant in that one of the characters, Caroline, the doctor's sister, has been credited by Christie as being the forerunner of Miss Marple.  The soon to be familiar Christie theme of small towns as hot beds of intrigues both large and small is seen here for the first time.<br />This book has aged very gracefully, the first time reader of today will probably be just as surprised as the readers of the 1920's were.  As always with a Christie the clues are all there fairly laid out for the reader to follow.	2004-01-25
US	49111640	R1I9O4STBFAWF0	0425067947	393740026	The Murder on the Links (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The return of Poirot and Hastings	This is the second Poirot/Hastings mystery and like MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES, Hastings is the narrator and is again speaking from a future time describing past actions (ala Watson in the Sherlock Holmes stories).<br />The action begins with Hastings meeting a young woman while on a train traveling through France to England.  When they part at Calais Hastings believes he has seen the last of her.  Soon after he and Poirot are traveling back to France at the request of a wealthy man who has made an appeal to Poirot.  They arrive too late, the man had been murdered hours before.  As they attempt to solve this crime another murder is commited, then a blackmail scheme is discovered that involves a twenty year old crime.  To further complicate matters a young love triangle comes to light and one of the points seems to be the young lady Hastings had met on the train.  In the end Poirot and Hastings prevail with a typical Christie last minute surprise.<br />This book, Christie's third novel, was published in 1923.  The reader must keep the time frame in mind in order to understand some of the motivations of the characters and the limitations in police methods.  Even with these constraints the story has held up well, due perhaps to Christie's trademark of equal parts of mystery and character development.<br />Hastings fans will particularly enjoy this novel because Hastings meets his future wife and begins his connection with South America.	2004-01-25
US	49111640	R4NKN16K54OSR	0425130266	620387131	The Mystery of the Blue Train (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent vintage Christie	This book was published in 1928 and is an expansion of the short story &quot;Mystery of the Plymouth Express&quot;.  The plot enters around an American heiress, her millionaire father, ne'er do-well husband, shady lover and others she comes into contact with on the famous Blue Train while traveling to the Riveria.  The question becomes was she murdered for her jewels or were her jewels taken to cloud the motive of her murder?  Katherine Grey (from the soon to be famous St. Mary Mead) was taken into the victims confidence and finds herself entangled in the mystery.  Fortunately for her, Hercule Poirot was also a passenger on the train and sorts through the puzzle.  Poirot is traveling without Hastings but we are treated to scenes with Georges the valet at the beginning of his career with Hercule.<br />This book has held up surprisingly well considering it is nearing the century mark.  It describes a way of life that is long past which could be confusing the 21st century reader who does not understand the stigma that had been attached to divorce, limited opportunities for women or personal servants but the core conflicts of the story remain current to today.  <br />The only flaws I see in this story are the number of subplots and secondary characters but this is more than made up for by the ending which has the typical Christie flair.	2004-01-24
US	49111640	R130RSZ6DFRTUI	051512463X	73986108	The Cat Who Sang for the Birds	Books	5	1	2	N	N	for Moose County content 4 for anyone else	Jim Qwilleran, newspaper columnist and wealthiest man in Moose County (400 miles north of everywhere) finds himself involved in another round of mysteries.  This time an eccentric Moose County old timer dies under circumstances that make Qwill suspicious.  Aided by hints dropped by Koko, his Siamese cat, Qwill begins to unravel the mystery and is led into a tangle involving county corruption, love affairs and greed.  As always Qwill and Koko manage to solve the crimes even though the usual Moose County events intrude.<br />For fans of the series there are many Moose County moments to savor.  There is enough mystery here to satisfy fans of the general cozy genre as well.	2004-01-23
US	49111640	R1O1F285ASM2VL	0515129941	717777341	The Cat Who Robbed a Bank	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	for Moose County fans, 3-4 for anyone else	The story opens in late summer, Jim Qwilleran, wealthy newspaper columnist is, like the rest of Moose County (located 400 miles north of everywhere) looking forward to the opening of the new hotel.  He finds that in addition to the grand opening, the hotel is to be graced by a visit from Mr. Delacamp, a jeweler from the big city who travels to Moose County every few years to do business.  Qwill is intrigued by this strange custom and resorts to undercover work to satisfy his curiousity about the expensive cash only, women customers only business.  When a murder occurs he becomes more so. As always Koko, his Siamese cat helps Qwill to pick his way through the tangle of old and new county scandals and county ties to reach the answers.<br />For fans of this long running series there are plenty of Moose County updates and 'information to be shared' as well of glimpses of day to day small town life. 'Cozy' fans would probably enjoy this as well even if not familiar with the series but anyone looking for a more hard-boiled or challenging story should look elsewhere.	2004-01-23
US	49111640	R2KJ96QDOHR4V2	0425129616	89648832	The Mysterious Affair at Styles (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Hercule and Hastings begin their adventures	This is the first Christie and the first Hercule Poirot novel.  The action opens with Hastings describing his first adventure with Poirot.  They become involved in solving a death in a locked room with the most obvious suspect being the husband.  Many twists and turns later Poirot prevails and justice is served.<br />Hastings circumstances (invalid army officer alone in the world) are very like Dr. Watson. The relationship between Hastings and Poirot is similiar to Watson and Holmes in that Hastings is the bumbler, always leaping to the wrong conclusion while Poirot, like Holmes, drops little hints but by in large keeps his companion in the dark until the last minute.  <br />Christie began her pattern here of going against established mystery conventions (most obvious suspect being innocent) while playing fair, (all clues are fairly laid out for the reader).  The trademark Christie twists and turns are here as well.<br />This novel was originally published in 1920 and many of the details show its age.  There are references to things that the modern reader will not be familiar and some comments are absolutely not politically correct but these do not detract from the story and in fact enforce the WWI English country house setting.<br />This is a 'must read' for any Christie fan, and highly recommended for any fan of 'cozy' mysteries.	2004-01-23
US	49111640	R3UUBQBEV4QQWC	0515120278	671340092	The Cat Who Said Cheese	Books	5	3	3	N	N	for Moose County regulars but 3 for anyone else	Jim Qwilleran, heir to the vast Klingenschoen fortune, is caught up in the Great Food Explo like the rest of Moose County (located 400 miles north of everywhere).  The Explo is an attempt to raise the standard of dining in the county but is soon over shadowed by the arrival of a mysterious woman, an explosion, and two deaths. Qwill and the cats soon resolve not only those issues but also locate a long missing book.<br />For fans of this series there are many not to be missed bits of Moose County life: updates on the lives of both the Bamba family and Derek Cuttlebrink; Polly's recuperation; the arrival of Onoosh and other little tidbits that will either bring a memory of a previous adventure or hint of things to come.  <br />For those who are not fans of this series this is not one of the stories that can be appreciated for its own merits, even those who are fans of other cozies probably would find this one only mildly interesting.	2004-01-22
US	49111640	R27Z97MKI0Z2XD	0425098826	673902017	The Big Four (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Vintage Christie - but different	This was the 5th Hercule Poirot mystery but is quite a bit different from MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES or many of the more famous later ones like MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS or DEATH ON THE   NILE.  The plot is more fantastic, involving a vast international conspiracy of supercriminals and has Poirot taking a much more active role than usual.<br />The story opens with Hastings planning to surprise Poirot by arriving from South America unannounced only to be surprised himself by Poirot's own imminient departure - for South America.  A filthy stranger bursts into Poirot's apartment with a cryptic message which sets the two detectives on a long and twisted trail to save the world.  <br />This book was published in 1927 not long after Christie's first marriage ended (and her mysterious disappearance).  She was in deep financial trouble and took a suggestion to link together a series of previously published stories.  (Information from Agatha Christie's autobiograhy). <br />This resulting book was immensely popular when it was first released but has not aged that well, in my opinion.  If you are, like me, an advid Christie fan, you will probably find this book amusing but if you are new to Christie's work or are only familiar with the later books you probably would be better served with another choice.	2004-01-22
US	49111640	R2ZEV9NZBZZ869	0515127396	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Stars	Books	4	3	3	N	N	for Moose County content less for anyone else	Jim Qwilleran, semi-retired journalist and heir to the vast Klingenschoen fortune, has decided to where to spend his family vacation.  He and his family (two Siamese cats) will be leaving their Pickax residence to spend a month at the (lake)shore resort town of Mooseville, all within Moose County - 400 miles north of everywhere.<br />The story begins with the news that a backpacker has gone missing, followed closely by two deaths.  Qwill suspects that these are not accidents but something more sinister, a feeling he seems to share with his cat.  Together they begin to piece these and other smaller mysteries together despite the usual Moose County distractions of parades, Moose County family secrets and romances, until they arrive at some startling revelations.<br />For those who are fans of this long running series this installment will not disappoint.  There are plenty of appearances by Moose County regulars, the Rikers, Derek Cuttlebrink and others, that will get us up to date on the latest county happenings.  One of the long going themes of the series, the local sightings of UFOs over the lake, is brought to the forefront with Qwill being forced to re-think his skepticism on the subject.<br />For those who are not familiar with this series it is a very popular long running series of 'cozy' mysteries that is worth reading, just don't start with this one.	2004-01-22
US	49111640	R1SLAGQ3CZK681	1572973137	113431119	Forever Knight: Intimations of Mortality (Forever Knight)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	for FK fans, perhaps 3 for anyone else	The story opens with Nick Knight, Toronto police detective and vampire continuing his quest to regain his mortality. Natalie Lambert, mortal, police coroner and Nick's would be lover, has returned from a trip to NY where she has picked up a dream doll that Nick had located in an occult shop.  Nick had been told that the doll would help him achieve his most heartfelt desire, an idea that ever practical Natalie discounts.  The doll does cause Nick to alternate between realities - his current reality of being a vampire in a mortal world and his dream state of being a mortal in a world filled by vampires.  <br />As with all tie-in novels there are no permanent changes made to the existing universe but the story does raise interesting questions to the nature of reality. <br />For fans of Forever Knight this is an excellent read.  The characters are all true to the series and the action is faithful to the timeline of the last half of the final season.  The interactions of the various characters and how they change as the realities shift is done quite well.<br />For those who are unfamiliar with the Forever Knight world this would be a very confusing and frustrating place to begin.	2004-01-20
US	49111640	R19IZ5WV6ACJYP	0380731231	454159198	Trojan Gold (Vicky Bliss Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Christmas in Bavaria	Art historian Vicky Bliss has been sent an interesting photo, a photo that at first appears to be the famous shot of Frau Schliemann wearing the gold jewelry from Troy.  A second look shows Vicky that this is not yet another copy of that photo but a much more recent shot.  The problem with that is that the treasure had disappeared during WWII.  Soon Vicky was on the trail, accompanied by her boss, Schmidt, several of her collegues (returning from a previous adventure) and the mysterious John Smith.  <br />This is an light hearted action adventure.  The characters are well done, particularly the principals (Vicky, John and Schmidt) much of the situations and dialogue is hilarious.<br />The only complaints that I have are there are many German terms used with little translation - frustrating for those of us who don't know the language.  The other issue is that this is definitely one of those series that needs to be read in order not starting with this the 4th installment (as I did).	2004-01-20
US	49111640	R131X1C3YO19CJ	0515115649	466934211	The Cat Who Came to Breakfast	Books	5	5	5	N	N	On vacation with Qwill and the cats	Qwill, AKA James Qwilleran, wealthy semi-retired journalist and companion person to two Siamese cats, has just expressed his total disdain for the newest Moose County (400 miles north of everywhere) enterprise - Pear Island AKA Breakfast Island AKA Grand Island AKA Providence Island when he discovers that his long-time lady friend, Polly will be vacationing in Oregon and without him.  He reconsiders his options and decides to visit this island but on his own terms.  In a short time he becomes entangled in the local politics and begins to suspect that all is not as it seems on the island, no matter what name is being used.  Of course there is a death and Qwill's suspicions prove correct.  By the end of the book Qwill and the cats have had yet another vacation that did not go according to plan but instead solved some mysteries.<br />This was a good entery into the series but I did miss some of the Moose County regulars.  The one that were present,the ever-growing Derek and the delightful Bamba family make up for the absence of so many others however.  The newest addition to the County, Elizabeth Cage is intriguing, another poor-little-rich-girl like Mary Duckworth of earlier books, but with a charm of her own.<br />This is a must for fans of the series but would also be enjoyable for any fan of the 'cozy' mystery genre.	2004-01-17
US	49111640	R2N5K0NAD3ORKP	0515111279	83588632	The Cat Who Wasn't There	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The curse of the Scottish Play	Jim Qwilleran, millionaire bachelor and resident of Moose county (400 miles north of everywhere) has dashed back home to protect his lady friend, Polly the liberian, from a stalker.  Qwill is convinced that she is being targeted to be used as a way to blackmail him.  When he finds that a tour of the Scottish Highlands (insipired by the local production of MacBeth) is being organized and that Polly is planning to go he decides to go along.  Tragedy strikes the tour, a member dies of natural causes or were they so natural?  Qwill and Polly return home where he, aided as always by his Siamese cats, Koko and YumYum uncover the true motives and culprits to, of course, save the day.<br />The mystery is, as always is the case in this series, secondary to the 'cozy' element of Moose County background but in this book is a bit more complex.  We are treated to visits by many of the Moose County crowd including a return by Dr. Melinda Goodwinter, Qwill's first lady friend in Moose County (The Cat Who Played Brahms).	2004-01-16
US	49111640	R1EEQU4NV7NJTP	0515113328	565790722	The Cat Who Went into the Closet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	and found some skeletons there	Jim Qwilleran, wealthy bachelor and newspaper columnist, has again changed residence, this time into the Gage mansion which just happens to be located next to his lady friend's carriage house.  Living in a small town like Pickax (pop. 3000) in remote Moose County (400 miles north of everywhere) it pays to be discrete.  <br />Soon after settling in though Qwill's Siamese cats begin to unearth 'treasures' left behind by the former occupant, the eccentric 88 year-old Euphonia Gage who has recently moved to Florida.  Qwill's enjoyment of his new quarters is disrupted by news of her suicide.  Something about it seems wrong to Qwill but he has trouble focusing on the problem due to other concerns, a worried daughter seeking her missing father, a one-man stage show, and an upcoming wedding not to mention the usual Moose County activities.  In the end though Qwill and the cats sort out all the mysteries, even unearthing yet another deep-dark Goodwinter family secret.<br />This is another Moose County mystery complete with many of the familiar characters and marking the first appearance of Celia Robinson.  This is a must for those who are fans of the series and would be enjoyable by anyone who likes the 'cozy' genre of mystery.  For anyone who is seeking a more traditional mystery it would be one of the more acceptable of this series.	2004-01-16
US	49111640	R3M2FQ7J60K0U1	0515109509	990324972	The Cat Who Moved a Mountain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Qwill and the cats  take a mountain vacation	Jim Qwilleran, former crime reporter, has just inherited the vast Klingenschoen fortune.  He had been required to live in Moose County for 5 years to satisfy the stipulations of the will and now he was ready for an adventure.  Lately he had been having a strange yearning to see mountains so he loaded up his Siamese cats to set out for the Potato Mountains intending to spend the summer.  Soon after his arrival Qwill found himself involved in local politics, an old murder and family scandals.  After a series of adventures and mishaps Qwill and the cats reveal the true culprits and realize just where they really want to be.<br />For fans of this long running series the lack of Moose County action can be a bit frustrating but it is more than off set by the whole new community of the Potato Mountains.  The scenes of Qwill traveling with cats is hilarious and all too familiar to anyone who has tried to travel with pets.  As always with this series the depictions of small town life are totally realistic.<BR>The bits of Moose County life we do get are significant and hint of action to come in later books.<br />This is one of the best of the series, it will appeal to any fan of the 'cozy' mystery genre not just to fans of this particular series.	2004-01-15
US	49111640	R3OISNCZUQVSC7	0515107867	586234676	The Cat Who Knew a Cardinal	Books	4	4	5	N	N	bird and cleric watching with Qwill and the kitties	Jim Qwilleran, the star of this series, is the heir to the vast Klingenschoen fortune.  He lives with his two Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum in Moose County, 400 miles north of everywhere.<br />The action opens with the Qwill and the cats settling in to their latest residence, the newly remodeled apple barn.  The peace is shattered as the Theater Club drops by for a house (barn) warming party.  When the last of the party goers leave Qwill discovers that one is unable to go on his own power, he has been murdered just outside Qwill's door!  The story then focuses on the deceased, Hilary VanBrook, principal of Pickax High School and director of the latest Theater Club production.  When a fellow actor disappears he becomes the chief suspect.  Qwill, of course, believes that the answer lies elsewhere and, aided by the cats, begins to investigate.<br />His attention is divided however, his latest lady friend, Polly Duncan, is acting strangely - perhaps he has a rival for her affections.  Koko and Yum Yum are similiarly distracted by a new  activity - bird watching, especially cardinals.  The trio presses on, even traveling out of Moose County looking for answers.  In the end the mysteries are solved and life in Moose County continues.<br />I found this one of the less satisfying books in the series.  The action begins nearly a year after the end of the previous book.  The character of the second victim, Dennis Hough, who was Iris Cobb's son - introduced in The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts - has changed character slightly, and earned Qwill's trust and respect since we first met him.  The motive for his death is weak and there is no real explanation given for the breakup of his family.<br />Qwill's relationship with Polly is one of the themes of this story and though it is given quite a bit of attention I felt that  it was more of a tease.  Also, as with the previous novel, I felt that the ending had been rushed with some of the threads left a bit loose.<br />If you are a devotee of the series you will want to read this one, especially for the Polly and Qwill story.  If you are new to series perhaps starting elsewhere would be better,  but if you a just looking for a good mystery this may not be your best choice.	2004-01-15
US	49111640	RYONGDMAD0544	051510566X	466934211	The Cat Who Lived High	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Great start but poor finish	The story begins with Moose County's reaction to the death of Jim Qwilleran, heir to the vast Klingenschoen fortune, beloved columnist in the Moose County Something, companion to Koko and Yum Yum and the hero of this series of books.  The action then flashes back to the events that led Qwill and the cats to the 'Big City Down Below'. We learn that he had been contacted by a voice from the past, Amberine, one of the Weird Sisters, who was urged by their mutual friend, Mary Duckworth (both featured in The Cat Who Turned On and Off) to ask him to buy and restore the historic Art Deco era Casablanca apartment building.  Qwill is both intrigued by the prospect of returning to city life, at least for a time,and eager to escape another long Moose County winter.<br />After arriving in the city and establishing himself at the Casblanca Qwill begins to catch up with old friends, visit old neighborhoods and delve into the issues surrounding the Casablanca.  Of course once Qwill and the cats are on the scene the suicide and murder scandal that had rocked the community a few weeks before is discovered to be even more scandalous than previously thought.  In the end Qwill and the cats unravel the plot.<br />This is one of my least favorite books in the series.  The beginning is riveting, the opening scenes of the warnings Qwill receives from his Moose County friends and his re-introduction to city life are all very well done.  It is also great for fans of the series to travel back to Junktown and see how it and some of its residents have changed since we last saw them (The Cat Who Turned On and Off and The Cat Who Saw Red).  Many of the characters we meet at the Casablanca are also interesting and cause us to hope we will see more of them but about half way through it is as if the author has begun to lose interest in the story.  Details are glossed over, things move much quicker until the last couple of chapters seem to be little more than glorified outlines.  This book does not have an ending so much as it just ends.<br />If you are a fan of the series of course you'll want to read this for the news of old friends if nothing else.  If you are new to the series do NOT start with this one and if you are just looking for a good mystery, cozy or otherwise, keep looking because this isn't it.	2004-01-14
US	49111640	R15CUHJ93MNSRT	0515102652	466934211	The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts (The Cat Who...)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	for Moose County content - 4 for mystery	As this 10th entry of the long running Cat Who series opens, Qwill is trying to listen to an opera recording.  He is interupted by a phone call from Iris Cobb, a friend and curator of the local farmhouse museum.  Qwill was Iris' tenant for a time when he worked Down Below as a reporter.  After he inherited the vast Klingenschoen fortune and moved to Moose County he asked Iris to become his housekeeper/cook/antiques expert then recommended her for her present job.  When this long time fried called and was so upset by the noises she heard in her lonely farmhouse Qwill rushed out to her aid.  He was too late and found her dead from an apparent heart attack - or was the cause of death really so natural?<br />As always in this series the murder takes a secondary role to the characters and history of Moose County.  Naturally Qwill and the cats resolve all and restore peace to Moose County.  As the book closes a newcomer to Moose County gives Qwill a feeling of foreboding but he soon changes his focus to a call from the big city Down Below that he used to call home.	2004-01-14
US	49111640	R3K24Y39YD489D	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The women of Camelot	This is the familiar story of Arthur and Camelot but as told by the women of the story, Arthur's mother, his wife and others but mostly his half-sister Morgaine.  The main conflict of the story is not Knights vs Saxons as is often the main theme of this story but instead the clash of cultures as the older Goddess centered religion of the Celts is pushed aside by Christianity.  Neither faith is presented as 'right' or better but each is shown to have flaws.  The characters are drawn not as heroes or villians but as real people with both good and bad qualities.<br />The descriptions in the book are so detailed and well done that it is possible to visualize each person, each setting as if pictures had been provided.  <br />As exacting as the descriptions are the ending is frustrating.  The story ends as it must, with the ruin of Camelot.  The frustration comes from the realization that each character acted in the way they had felt was right and true to their beliefs but that had lead all to pain and ruin in the end.     <br />I read this book when it first came out and loved it then, when I saw that it was being made into a film I read it again then saw the film.  I have just finished my third time through the book.  Each time I have gotten something more from the story.  My reactions have ranged from pride in the strength of women, contempt for narrow mindedness, frustration that the characters all seemed doomed to their fates to name a few.  This latest reading has left me with a quote from Morgaine \\"I have called on the Goddess and found her within myself.\\"	2004-01-13
US	49111640	R2H2DP0E22CN1	0515101230	997569693	The Cat Who Went Underground	Books	5	3	3	N	N	for Moose County and 4 for mystery	In this 1989 entry of the long running Cat Who series Qwill decides to pack up the cats and move to the cabin in Mooseville for the summer.  Apparently he forgot what took place up there the last time he tried to spend the summer there (The Cat Who Played Brahms).  His visit begins with a nonfunctioning heater that leads him to the Glinko Network, the local monopoly on handymen.  From then on Qwill's vacation is filled with mysterious visitors, disappearing carpenters and a reminder that he isn't a lucky sailor.  The recurring theme of UFO activity in the area comes into play and Qwill is also forced to take a second look at  the world of the occult via horoscopes, psychic readings and eerie happenings.  As always Qwill and Koko manage to solve the mystery, which this time involved clearing Qwill as chief suspect.<br />The mystery this time was a bit darker than earlier entries in the series with the murder being discovered to be as much victim as villian.  <br />Many of the familiar cast was present from earlier stories with welcome updates on their lives.  Two favorites, Qwill's latest lady friend, Polly Duncan and his former housekeeper, Iris Cobb were missing from this adventure.<br />This is another 'must read' for fans of the series that would also be enjoyed by those who are just fans of the cozy mystery genre.	2004-01-13
US	49111640	R276JEMD0BZI2T	0515099546	156951285	The Cat Who Sniffed Glue	Books	5	13	13	N	N	for Moose County content and 4 for mystery	This 8th volume of the popular Cat Who series focuses on the production of 'Arsenic and Old Lace' that is being staged by the Moose County Theater Club. The play is cancelled when one of the cast members and his wife are murdered.  In typical small town fashion everyone else in the book are related to, had dated, gone to school with, taught, worked with or in someway were related to the couple.  Qwill, the richest man in Moose County (which is located 400 miles north of everywhere) and his cats Koko and Yum Yum, are soon on the case.  This sleuthing does not come without peril to the trio but in the end they of course solve the crime.<br />This is a bit more of a mystery than others of the series (at least I didn't figure it out early as I usually do in this series).  There is also more violence involving Qwill and the cats than usual.  In light of this I think that this would be a better choice for a non Moose County groupie.  <br />For those of us who are fans of the series we get to visit with many of our old friends including Alacoque Wright who was featured in an earlier book.  Qwill has also found himself with a surplus of lady friends, a situation that he does not find to his liking!  The cats are very much involved in the action here, more directly than in some other books in this series.  <br />The book is divided not into chapters but into acts and scenes like a play.  <br />This is one of the best of the series, both for those who are already fans of the series and those who are not (yet).	2004-01-11
US	49111640	RHAKPVBILCVGH	0312979487	678964946	The Man in the Brown Suit (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amelia Peabody's long lost cousin perhaps?	Young Anne Beddingfeld is trapped in a small English town caring for her father, a world renowned expert in primative man.  Within the first 50 pages Anne is orphaned, witnesses an accident/murder on a railway platform, becomes entangled in a nation wide man hunt for the man in the brown suit and departs for South Africa with a ridiculously small sum of money.  From there things begin to get exciting.<br />The mystery is fairly laid out with all the clues available, but as always with Christie the plot twists and turns to the end.  It is much more of a romance than the rest of Christie's work and does not include either M. Poriot or Miss Marple. <BR> <BR>This book was orginally written in 1924, not long after Mysterious Affair at Styles.  This 'young orphaned adventuress heroine out to see the world' was a popular theme of the day reflecting the post-war (WWI) increased opportunities for women.  What could have been a trite formulistic effort, became in the hands of Christie, an exciting novel that is still a joy to read 80 plus years later.  <br />This book is in many ways similiar to the Amelia Peabody series, ie a young woman finds herself suddenly orphaned by the scholar father who treated her more as a housekeeper than daughter, travels to Africa where she meets the love of her life and battles with a master criminal.<br />WARNING a movie of this book was made several years ago and while it is enjoyable in itself it bears very little in common with this book.	2004-01-10
US	49111640	RQD3GO8Q6VKZP	0515095826	670145882	The Cat Who Knew Shakespeare	Books	5	6	8	N	N	for Moose County content but 3 for mystery	This 7th book in the popular Cat Who series opens in November as all of Moose County waits for the arrival of 'the Big One' the first snow fall of the season.  Jim Qwilleran, known as Qwill or Mr. Q, has recently inherited a fortune contingent on his residence in Moose County for 5 years.  He has decided to leave his career as a journalist 'Down Below' and stay in Moose County, '400 miles North of everywhere'.  Qwill has begun to use his fortune to help the people of Moose County by various contributions channeled through the 'K fund'.  <br />His largest planned project is setting up a museum in the mansion full of antiques he has inherited but the one possibly nearest his heart is luring a decent cook into one of the local restaurants.  The cook has arrived accompanied by a friend of Qwill's from down below, Hixie Rice, and is a bit of a mystery.<br />Other matters that concern Qwill are the romance of his housekeeper, Iris Cobb and his own budding romance with the local librarian, Polly Duncan.  Qwill has also taken an interest in the local newspaper and the family that runs it.  His companion, Koko, a Siamese cat has taken an interest in pushing valuable volumes of Shakespeare plays off the bookshelves.  As always by the end of the book Qwill has resolved all issues and realizes that Koko was ahead of him all the way.<br />The emphasis in the series has always been more on the characters, the cozy element and less on the mystery aspect.  This is particularly true in this one.  If you are a Moose County fan you MUST read this book as it moves the series along on serveral important fronts but if you are looking for a mystery this probably isn't the book for you. The resolution is rather contrived and frankly by the time you get to it you may have forgotten half of the questions it was supposed to answer.	2004-01-08
US	49111640	R2XPUQYBBH0MRS	0515093203	800231754	The Cat Who Played Post Office	Books	5	7	7	N	N	for fans of the series 3 to 4 for anyone else	This 6th book in the series opens with Qwill, the new heir to the Klingenschoen fortune, trying to remember just who and where he is.  As he remembers flashbacks cover the events leading up to the accident that lead to his amnesia, or was it an accident?  Along the way Qwill, with the guidance of his cats, solves the long ago disappearance of a housemaid and encouters a scandal involving a the oldest most respected Moose County family.<br />Qwill's relocation to Moose County has been eased by friends, both old and new.  His long time friend Arch Riker has come up north for a visit, a former land lady, Iris Cobb has relocated to Pickaxe to become his housekeeper.  Qwill's romance with Dr. Melinda, begun in the previous book, is continuing.  Other Moose County residents, both from the eariler Cat Who Played Brahms and new to this book appear.<br />This 'cozy' mystery will appeal more to those already familiar with the series although it could be enjoyed on its own merits by a mystery fan.  A reader new to the series could also begin here.	2004-01-07
US	49111640	RAQZIVITF7A58	0515090506	470032178	The Cat Who Played Brahms	Books	5	5	6	N	N	if you are a fan of the series,  3 to everyone else	This 5th book in the Cat Who series should not be missed by any fan of the series.  This is the beginning of the 'Moose County' years.<BR>The story opens with Qwill heading to his beloved Press Club for lunch.  To his horror it has been transformed into a fern bar, the next blow comes quickly, he will some be losing yet another home.  Soon after Qwill has taken a 3 month leave of absence, packed up his cats and other possesions and headed north for a vacation and a plan to write a novel.  He has been offered the free use of a lakeside cabin by his 'Aunt' Fanny, a friend of his late mother.<br />400 plus nerve racking miles later Qwill and cats arrive in Moose County.  The introduction to this new environment does not start off smoothly for Qwill.  The rural life is too totally strange to Qwill filled with bizarre customs (hats on or hats off dining), terrifying noises (loons) and even requiring a new wardrobe.  Worst of all it seems to be impossible to get a decent meal!  Still the area is not without its charms, Aunt Fanny is delightful although difficult to converse with, his neighbors are congenial and others he meets are colorful to say the least.  <br />After his current ladyfriend, Rosemary, arrives Qwill is beginning to settle into the area despite some ominious incidents.  Things take a turn for the worse with yet another death but as always, Qwill, aided by his cats, gets to the bottom of things.  It is Qwill, however, who receives the final surprise and the novel ends with him considering his options.<br />There are many characters introduced in this book that will continue through the rest of the series, most notably the Bamba family, as are some of the Moose County themes of flowery obituaries and Scottish ancestors.  This sets the stage for the rest of the series and should not be missed by any fan of the later books.	2004-01-04
US	49111640	R2M5UVLZYERJHD	0515087947	997569693	The Cat Who Turned On and Off	Books	5	8	8	N	N	if you are a Cat Who fan if you are not then 3 or 4	Jim Qwilleran, Qwill to his friends, has decided to ease his cash flow problem by winning the prize offered by The Daily Fluxion for the best story of the year.  Qwill is a feature writer for the paper but his doubts that anything on his usual beat of interior design will achieve this goal so he pitches the idea of a heart touching story about Christmas in Junktown.  His editor agrees and then Qwill finds out that the junk in Junktown is not narcotics but instead refers to the low end of the antique trade.<br />There is no option for Qwill but to try and make the best of the situation.  He soon becomes immersed in the characters of Junktown even locating a new apartment there for himself and his two Siamese cats.  Qwill keeps hearing of a tragic death that occured in the community a few weeks before, a death that seems odd to him but that everyone around him keeps insisting must have been accidental.  As more tragic accidents and odd occurences that place Qwill becomes more convinced that Junktown is no as crime free as his neighbors would like to believe.  As always Qwill, with the help of his cats, solve the mysteries.<br />This, the third entry into the Cat Who series, was orginally published in 1968 which becomes evident whenever prices are mentioned.  Other than that the story holds up well and could be enjoyed even by some one who is not familiar with the series.  For fans of the series please note that it is not set in the familiar Moose County of the later books but is instead located in a &quot;large Mid-western city'.  As is common for this series some old familiar characters make repeat appearances if only in passing.	2004-01-03
US	49111640	R296G3V7MS2XJH	0515090166	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Red	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another mystery for Qwill and Koko	The story opens with Qwill, a feature reporter for the Daily Fluxion, once again facing a new assignment and seeking a new residence for himself and his cats.  Instead of getting assigned to the crime reporting that he would prefer Qwill finds himself assigned to features on the food scene.  This would not be too bad if Qwill had not just been put a diet by his doctor.  His editor insists so once again Qwill tackles another area.  Soon Qwill finds himself immersed in another facet of society in the big city and again he and his cats move into the middle of it, this time taking up residence in the Maus Haus, a boarding house filled with artists who all have a connection with food.<br />Among his neighbors Qwill is delighted to find his former sweetheart, Joy, who is now married (unhappily).  Qwill begins to become involved in Joy's life again only to see her once again abruptly disappear.  As time goes by Qwill becomes more and more suspicious of this and other goings on at the Maus House.  Ultimately he and the cats solve the mysteries, although not happily.<br />For those unfamiliar with the series this book could be enjoyed by itself, for those who are fans of the later books be aware that the setting is not Moose County but covers an earlier part of Qwill's life.  One of the most notable aspects of this story is the introduction of Hixie Rice who will later relocate to Moose County.  For fans of the eariler books Odd Bunsen, Mary Duckworth and Robert Maus all return from eariler books.	2004-01-03
US	49111640	R23U3E18T5FRVW	0446602868	788405299	Highlander (tm): Scotland the Brave	Books	5	3	3	N	N	for Highlander fans but perhaps less for others	This tie-in to the Highlander TV series picks up Duncan's involvement with Annie Devlin an immortal Irish terrorist who had appeared in a television episode.  Another immortal from Duncan's past, a fellow Scot who is now an actor has sworn revenge on MacLeod.  Their story is told in a series of flashbacks and are linked through references to MacBeth, the 'Scottish play'.  The story is well-written and while it could be enjoyed by someone unfamiliar with the Highlander premise it would appeal more to a Highlander fan.   <br />Many of the familiar characters from the series appear, Joe Dawson, Richie, Anne Lindsay, and Methos all appear to various degrees.  The author has a good grasp of the Highlander universe, the story does NOT contradict anything established in the series and the characters from the series all remain true to their on-screen personalities.	2004-01-03
US	49111640	R278A1D0YNF8MY	0515087122	307023147	The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern	Books	5	19	21	N	N	When Qwill and Koko met Yum-Yum	As the second book of this popular series opens Qwill is trying to work up the nerve to ask for a different writing assignment.  The former crime reporter has spent the past six months, since The Cat Who Could Read Backwards, covering the art scene and is anxious to get back to something more in keeping with his background.  His assignment is changed but to writing features for the new weekly supplement on interior design.  Since he cannot afford to quit he gamely decides to tackle the project.<br />Within a short period of time he is immersed into a new world filled with characters every bit as strange and colorful as the arts crowd he has just left.  Life seems to be looking up for Qwill, the writing assignment is going well and one of his new friends asks Qwill and Koko to housesit his apartment while he is away on business.    After the new magazine hits the stands problems begin, thefts and bodies begin to pile up. Pointed in the right direction by Koko's hints Qwill solves the mysteries.  Along the way both Koko and Qwill acquire new ladies in their lives, Koko has found his Yum-Yum and Qwill begins a romance with 'Cokey' Wright, a designer who shares is taste for modern decor.<br />This mystery was originally published in 1967 but has worn well.  The fans of this series need to be aware that this is not set in Moose County but instead covers Qwill earlier life in the Big City 'down below'.  The characters that Qwill meets are, however, every bit as charming and quirky as those in Moose County, and like those in the later books do seem to turn up in subsequent novels.  Unlike the later additions to this series the emphasis is more on murder and less on cozy although there is no profanitiy, graphic violence or explicit sex.	2004-01-03
US	49111640	R2IGTIRD5NS16U	0515090174	103586426	The Cat Who Could Read Backwards	Books	5	1	1	N	N	In the beginning......	This is the first book in the popular Cat Who series.  The book introduces readers to James Qwilleran, a once well-regarded journalist who is trying to rebuild his career and to Koko, the Siamese 'cat who'.  Qwill is in no position to be picky about assignments, he considers himself fortunate to have a job at this point, but being assigned to cover the art world seems a bit of a stretch to this former crime reporter.  That is until the bodies begin to pile up.  Many characters are introduced that will remain for part or all of the series, most notably Art Riker Qwill's friend from childhood. <br />For those who are familiar with the series this is a very logical and enjoyable place to get up to speed on Qwill and Koko but beware this is more mystery and less cozy than later installments in the series.  Also be advised that the setting is the big city and not the Moose County of the later books.<br />There has been some speculation that this series has been written by more than one author.  Since this book was first published in 1966 and the series is still going strong that is entirely possible.  But just like a fine restaurant we might be happier if we don't inquire too deeply into the process that brings the finished product.	2004-01-02
US	49111640	R1JNDIS6RFU3RF	0515122408	458070117	The Cat Who Tailed a Thief	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Winter with Qwill and the kitties	Come spend the winter holidays (Christmas through Valentine Day) in Moose County!  Be there for Hixie Rice's First Annual Ice Festival, celebrate Scottish Night and Lynette's wedding!  If you haven't got the faintest idea what I'm talking about you will probably not give this a five star rating but if you have visited Moose County before you'll enjoy this latest trip to 400 miles North of everywhere.  <br />The action begins with on December 23rd as Qwill is Christmas shopping.  A series of petty thefts is plaguing Moose County. The crime escalates from minor nuisances to grand thefts and a respected member of a beloved County family is accused.  A sudden death of a new Moose County citizen occurs during a trip 'Down Below' interrupts the more immediate concerns of the up-coming local theater production, a newspaper write-in poll of intriguing cat names, and preparations for the Ice Festival.  When a popular member of an old Moose County family dies Qwill and Koko increase their efforts to get to the bottom of things.  They solve all and bring the culprits to justice before the spring thaw.  Of more importance to Moose County devotees is the addition of 'Wetherby Goode' the local radio weather forecaster.    <br />This long running (this is the 19th installment) series of cozies has a loyal core of fans who wouldn't dream of missing a trip to see Qwill, the semi-retired journalist who is also one of the richest men in the 'North central eastern United States' and his friends both human and feline.  If you like your murders in series and cozy join the annual trek up north, but if you prefer your crimes to be challenging or graphic travel elsewhere.	2004-01-01
US	49111640	R3I1OWAG8RDTGK	0515132268	489031643	The Cat Who Smelled a Rat	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	overall = Mystery content 3 stars + Moose County content 5	The first body doesn't appear until about half way through the book.  The first half of the book catches fans up on the latest in Moose County.  Suspicious fires have been plaguing the beloved shafthouses, those tourist attracting relics of Moose County's mining past.  Qwill and Koko begin to unravel that little problem but are sidetracked by the death of an old friend.  More suspicious  destruction sets them back on the trail, the bodies (finally) begin to appear. Of course Qwill and Koko prevail with the added triumphs of discovering the motives of the abherent behavior of a long time Moose County resident and shooing away yet another rival for Polly's affections.<br />This is a long running series of cozies.  If you are already familiar with Moose County, its resident mystery solving cat and his millionaire companion you'll LOVE this book.  If not you probably want to look elsewhere.  If you are new to the series this is not where you want to start.  If you are looking for a very challenging mystery you probably won't be happy with the series at all.	2003-12-31
US	49111640	R1DO6DMBNNGV1D	0515134384	159657985	The Cat Who Went Up the Creek	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Time for another visit to Moose County	This is the 24th installment of the continuing adventures of Qwill and friends.  The action again is in Moose County, this time centering for most of the book on the newly opened Nutcracker Inn out on Black Creek.  The mysteries and bodies begin pile up until Koko once again points Qwill in the right direction.<br />As always with this series the mysteries are secondary to the characters.  Qwill and his cats are like old friends to fans of the series.  His on-going relationships with Polly and other friends in Moose County are what keep people looking for the next book.  By now most fans could draw a map of Moose county and describe many of its residents.  <br />This book, like the others in the series, is not meant to be a challenging puzzle to figure out but is instead and pleasant read for a quiet weekend.  <br />There is no profanity, 'adult situations', or graphic violence.	2003-12-30
US	49111640	R2X08WYWEW4X7X	0449200817	928566439	Touch Not the Cat	Books	5	50	51	N	N	mystery and romance with a psychic touch	This is an old friend I turn to when I want to get away for awhile.  The story(ies) are well written, the characters are believable and the setting is done so well it would be tempting to try and locate 'Ashley Court' on a trip to England.  In other words this is yet another wonderfully done Mary Stewart.  <br />The story centers around Bryony Ashley, her family and the family estate and psychic link they share.  The story moves swifty, beginning with the death-by-suspicious-circumstances of Bryony's father which forces her return to Ashley Court, the family home.  Her cousins, the townspeople and tenants of the Court all enter into the story.  Past family scandals surface interlaced with &quot;Romeo and Juliet' references enter into the Bryony's life as she struggles to sort out her family's past issues, present dilemmas, <BR>and future.  The psychic link is not overdone, it appears just enough to add interest to the story.  The mystery has just enough twists to keep the reader interested and surpised.  The action is intense and the romance is sweet.<br />This vintage (1976) book has aged well. I have recommended it to both high school students and my mother with no complaints from anyone.	2003-12-30
US	49111640	R3H3FAOW8CDN3I	055328942X	723611342	The Shelters of Stone (Earth's Children, Book 5)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The further adventures of Ayla and friends	This book is the 5th installment of the Earth's Childern series. The action picks up from the end of the previous book, Plains of Passage.  Ayla and Jondalar have at last reached his family after trekking across what is now eastern Europe to southern France.    Criticism has been made that the books are repetitious.  I found that while there is definitely rehashing of actions from previous  books that it was no more than is found in other series.  This book, like the others in the series, could be read and enjoyed by itself or the series could be read out of sequence and still understood.    Some have complained that Ayla is some sort of a supergenius who  discovered 'everything'.  This IS a work of fiction, there never was an 'Ayla', a single person who had all of these experiences or made all of these discoveries but her experiences are all possible and probably did happen to others.  All of the advances Ayla made, domesticating animals, sewing together wounds, needles  etc were made by somebody during this time period.  Actually they were probably made many times by many different people throughout the world over many centuries.    The author brings to life a time period that we have only scant circumstantial evidence about.  Her world is probably a much nicer place than what really existed but it is a thorough depiction of a possible society of this time.      This is an enjoyable read and I am waiting for the next book in the series.	2003-12-28
US	49111640	R15KY2V3L2JNVG	0312867689	441168957	Bell, Book, and Murder: The Bast Mysteries	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Pagan 'cozy'	This is a collection of the three \\"Bast\\" novels - nearly the total of the series to date (one short story is missing).  Bast, AKA Karen Hightower is a thirtysomething wiccan living in NYC.  As she is quick to point out there is nothing supernatural about her, she is simply a practicing member of the local pagan community.  The mysteries are entertaining but not very complex, the true interest here is the story of Bast and her communitity.  Bast and the other characters are all well drawn and shown - warts and all.  The stories take place over the course of a few months June through October.<br />\\"Speak Daggers to Her\\" begins with the death of a wannabe Wiccan and introduces most the rest of the characters that will appear in the other books.  \\"Book of Moons\\" concerns the thefts of various Books of Shadows and escalates to murder and fraud.  \\"The Bowl of Night\\" moves the action out of the city to a pagan festival and murder of a ranting local.	2003-12-28
US	49111640	R2TDTUZ6W6XWQ6	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A book to savor again and again	Some books are to be read quickly, enjoyed and discarded.  This is definitely not one of those books.  It is dense with ideas and forces the reader to think.  This is a book to read, think about,then put on a shelf to be brought down later to experience again.  <br />The premise of the story is clever - three bored editors decide to play a game.  They string together the bizarre conspiracy theories they have heard and possibly stumble on the real thing.  This has been done before in other books and movies.  What make this different is the amount of information layered in the story.  This book has lead me to many late night internet searches.	2003-12-22
US	49111640	R13BZCBV4EYQ4F	0553277804	229777658	The Golden Spiders (Nero Wolfe)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another great time with old friends	The action begins in the brownstone, (where else?) Nero has just thrown a tantrum over his meal and Archie has decided to teach him yet another lesson.  We are treated to Nero coping with both a child and a grieving mother as he solves the case.  All the familiar characters come out to play: Fritz and Theodore; Cramer and Stebbins; Saul, Orrie and Fred.  Is this great literature to ponder? - absolutely not!  This is strictly for fun, yet another entry in a long running series.  A perfect way to spend an lazy afternoon escaping to New York of the 1950's, getting a few peeks into life at the brownstone and enjoying the on going battles between Nero and the world.	2003-12-22
US	49111640	R145D1FUYJCV49	1885173679	342386384	Murder for Beltene: A Beltene Family Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	First book in a series?	I found myself unable to put this book down until I found out just this next little bit and then another and another until I had reached the end...or is it the beginning of a series?  <br />The book has flaws typical of a first novel, too many characters and information overload.  It is NOT an easy quick read and while it is also not serious, snooty \\"great modern literature\\" it is definitely worth the effort.  <br />I want to read more about the family and town.  The characters were well drawn and engaging.  In some ways I was reminded of the \\"Cat Who\\" series, quirky characters in a UP setting but with a definite twist. The murders from this book are solved but I still have many questions about the side issues I want answered.   My biggest complaint?  Where can I get my hands on the more by this author?!	2003-12-19
