US	49116915	R1LFGJRISKQ05X	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Horse Opera on a Grand Scale	McCarthy's All the Pretty Horses offers the reader an homage to the great westerns of an earlier time. This like McMurtry's Last Picture Show is the western of the dying American West.<br />In a landscape now filled with cars and highways, John Grady Cole sets out the find the West of the past that he cherishes so much.<br />After the death of his grandfather and the sale of the ranch that means so much to him. Cole sets out on a journey to Mexico with his friend Lacey Rawlins to find the land and western adventure as cowboys they have always dreamed of. Along the way they pick up another youth, Jimmy Blevins, and the true adventure begins.<br />The narrative reads like a wierd hybrid of Ernest Hemingay meets William Faulkner but the careful reader will have no real problem following along. In addition, McCarthy's descriptions of the Mexican countryside can only be described as breathtaking. The horsebreaking scenes alone are woth the price of admission.<br />This is not to say that there are no flaws in the novel. The characters have a tendency to act on a level way beyond their years. The minor characters are not developed as well as they should be. In fact the affair between Cole and Alejandra feels like it was added as an afterthought and goes nowhere.<br />Perhaps the biggest flaw in the book is its ending. It seems that McCarthy tried to make his book too much of an adventure. The reclamation of the horses and capture of the captain scenes feel to Rambo like to be a part of so beautifully written a book.<br />But overall this is an extremely well written narrative that deserves a read.The flaws feel like defects in fine leather. Yes there are flaws but overall the picture is superb.	2003-05-26
US	49116915	R3KXHE8JAKDA1M	0802136354	415392328	Corpus Christi	Books	4	28	44	N	N	Everyone has their own version	Terrence McNally is an extremely gifted writer. I have seen two of his shows on Broadway this year. He has the ability to see past the minor  issues of daily life and to examine the big picture of human existence.<br />In Corpus Christi he re-writes the passion of Christ  from his own perspective. This perspective is that of a gay man growing up in 1950's Texas. There has been much controversy surrounding this play and the Manhattan Theatre Club's production of it. McNally has been vilified by much of the Christian right and many have even gone so far as to ban the production.<br />On its face however the story basically tracts and updates the biblical version of the Passion. The message of the play is that all men must love one another and we must continue to struggle to make the world a better place no matter what one's individual beliefs happen to be.<br />If one takes the time to step away from the controversy and to actually read the words what unfolds is a very moving and deeply Christian worldview. If we don't look closely at past events and hide our heads in the sand concerning the problems of society we have a tendency to repeat the mistakes of the past. This is perhaps the greatest sin.	2003-02-03
US	49116915	R2TV7UCZU0X7SO	1556524048	461509028	Forever Amber (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	3	55	74	N	N	Granddaddy of Historical Romance?	Just having read Kathleen Winsor's magnum opus Forever Amber i must say that I was astonished at the sheer magnitude of the volume. Some small municipal phonebooks pale in comparison. I wish that I could say that I was equally amazed by the story even though I am glad that the Chicago Review Press published an affordable version of this now classic romance novel.<br />The story is predictable enough, country girl rises from prisoner at the infamous Newgate Prison to mistress of CharlesII, King of England by whatever means necessary. Through a succession of lovers and husbands she remains &quot;faithful&quot; to the one personthat she can never have.<br />The book is very well researched and the reader gets a picture of the many strata of Restoration society. Winsor has a habit of dropping the right names at the right times but after 56 years the novel seems a little dated and the characters a little flat.<br />A key problem is that there are no real characters that I could identify with. I found myself hating everyone equally. Amber comes off bad as does her principal love, Bruce Carlton. The  feeling one gets is not of the decadence of Restoration London but of the despair engendered by the Court as a whole.<br />I'm somewhat sad to say that I did not enjoy this novel so much as read it to get to the end. The end itself is somewhat disappointing also. It is as if Ms. Winsor simply ran out of things to say and just ended it. That being said the novel is overly repetitious to start with and even though it may have started scandals and been banned in Boston in 1944 it is rather tame and mild now.	2003-01-21
US	49116915	R1MU0UWVRZ2W6J	0743442245	918063070	The Road to Perdition	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Graphic Novel Noir	I'd like to preface this review by stating that I don't often read \\"graphic novels.\\" I guess that the reason is that I've felt that one stops reading comic books at some point and goes on to more serious literature. That assumption is wrong and I've  been mistaken. Road to Perdition is much more than a comic book and it may even reach the level of literature.<br />Road to Perdition is, quite simply put, a morality tale. It is also the story of a boy's relationship with his father whom he both fears and desperately wants to look up to.<br />Road to Perdition feels like one of those old 1940's gangster movies more than anything. The scenario is quite familiar to any fan of the genre. Gang members do something horrible to one of the gang's family and a war of revenge begins in which all sides lose.. The twist here is that the story is told through the eyes of the avenger's young son.<br />While anyone used to this type of novel knows the eventual outcome, and I won't  give it away here. The novel does have some unique points:the way the story is told, the moral issues and hero worship angle between a boy and his father and some rather striking illustrations by Piers Rayner. There are problems also. The format does not lead to great character development. I never really felt that all the relationships were fleshed out completely.Sometimes the pictures on the page take away from one's ability to picture the action in one's own mind.<br />On the whole Road to Perdition is not really a great ride but it can be a pretty good one and a reason to take the genre of graphic novels more seriously.	2002-09-17
US	49116915	R2L44HM3ANGDK5	0060394153	762523525	Pucker Up: A Hands-on Guide to Ecstatic Sex	Books	3	32	38	N	Y	Kink for Dummies?	Tristan Taormino is the sexpert for Gen-X. In Pucker Up she attempts to write the Joy of Sex for the new millenium. Unfortunately, her efforts fall short.<br />It's not that the book is bad because its not. It's just that we are talking sex here not rocket science. Tristan does try to provide the casual reader with lots of information on everything from sexual anatomy to BDSM practices but fails to be complete in any topic. She does make up for this flaw by providing an excellent resource guide at the end that is worth the price of admission.<br />All in all the book is somewhat too simple. There is lots of basic material on better communication, the joys of adding toys to your routine, adding erotica and role-playing but no real detailed information. If you want details you need to go to the resource guide to get the additional material. The book really is not much of a techniques manual but rather a simple overlook of what could have been much more informative if the topics had been shortened and more detail given to specific aspects of sexuality.<br />One of the best parts of the book are the questions that accompany each chapter. The reader would have been better served if more questions had been included. These questions are truly the highlights of the work.<br />That said the book is not bad its just a slow repetitive read at times. I would recommend it if you are looking for very basic information but if you want more there are better source books out there.	2002-09-10
US	49116915	R3BQ77504PW5CC	1892284642	869863413	Plastic Jesus	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Homage to the Beatles	Poppy Brite's novella Plastic Jesus is her homage to the Beatles and the culture of the 1960's. It is not, however, about the Beatles. Make no mistake there are simalarities but Seth and Peyton are not John and Paul. Brite uses the love story between the two founders of the group to explore issues of prejudice and acceptance.Peyton grows as a character by reflecting on his life as a member of the most important rock group of the decade. In doing so he must also reflect upon his life in general, the issues of fame, and finally his ability to go on after a startling tragedy.<br />This is not profound reading but the book makes some interesting points.	2002-08-15
US	49116915	R3V17V14QXC2CC	096503240X	153802341	Lustmord: The Writings and Artifacts of Murderers	Books	2	7	11	N	Y	Strange Trip Into The Mind Of the Disturbed	Lustmord is a strange book to try to quantify. The book is a collection of the writings and artwork of thirty-seven murderers. Th writings reveal the inner workings of the disturbed mind in all of its forms. The writers are disturbed and often delusional in their outward view of the world. <br />There are a few problems with the volume. The editor, Brian King does not do such a great job af setting the stage in all cases. Often we are left with a group of writings taken out of context and hard to decipher. Many of the participants are illiterate or very nearly so. More editing is needed to make the reading easier. Also there is a feel of overkill about the book. We are presented with much more information than we really need to keep the material interesting. The book also uses a font style that is so small that the narrative is hard to read.<br />The reader needs to be warned that this is graphic material that is certainly not for everyone. The editor himself calls the material morbid in his brief introduction. With that warning the book does present a detailed look at the disturbed worldview of the murderer.	2002-08-05
US	49116915	R3NSS2YUBKKOJI	0151006105	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Flawed Work of American Genius	Penn Warren's All the Kings Men is an extremely involved read. The book focuses not so much on American politics and the myth of the demagogue politician but rather on one man's journey into himself into finding his place in the world. The book also provides the basis for one man's understanding of the meaning of responsibility for his actions.<br />That said, a lot of the critical focus of this novel has been placed on the character of Willie (Stark) Talos the fictional governor who starts out as a simple man of the people and evolves into a Machiavellian powerhouse who demands that the ends justify the means for all his actions. The book has been called the ultimate political novel or even a novel about the rise and fall of an American dictator. This rather general review barely scratches the surface of Penn Warrens attention.<br />In its most basic aspect, this is a novel which deals literally with one of the King's men. In this case that man is Jack Burden. Jack, for the most part, is an observer of the world around him. This is his most basic take on life. He observes and basically floats through his existence as a sort of thinking yes man for his political leader. He will do anything that his boss tells him and he will feel very little, if any responsibility for his actions. This view of life gradually changes through his interaction with Willie (Stark) Talos and the immediate circle of people around the governor. Jack through this novel grows into a responsible person.<br />I called the novel flawed in the title to this review for a few reasons. The first is the narrative style. Jack is a first person narrator and an observer of life. As such everything (and I mean everything) gets described. This has a great tendency to slow the novel almost to a crawl at some points. The flip side of this, however, is that Penn Warren creates prose that almost has the feel of a painting in its description. The novelist forces his reader to view the entire world through thenarrators eyes. There is very little direct narration and ore than a little of Warren's personal philosophy involved in reading this.<br />The second point that has been called a flaw is the placement of the Cass Mastern episode. This however is a centralpart of the novel. It is also the portion of the novel that William Faulker thought to be the best writing of the book. The episode runs nearly fifty pages and contributes nothing to the existing narrative structure. First looks however can be deceiving. This section of the novel provides a model for Burden's eventual change into a more responsible person.<br />On the whole this  was probably one of the most difficult books that I've read in quite a while. At times one wants to scream in frustration but with some patience the careful reader is left with a feeling of great accomplishment and the feeling of having read something truly great and uniquely American.	2002-06-18
US	49116915	RNYLSO1GO9G44	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A New Reading of the Classic	About six months ago I submitted a review of Burton Raffel's version of Beowulf in which I stated that I was glad I read the poem again. I now have the pleasure of reviewing a &quot;New Verse&quot; translation of the epic by none less than the Nobel winning Seamus Heaney.<br />At first glance, I was hoping for something majestic or even awe inspiring from this great modern poet. What I got was a Beowulf for the modern age. The storytelling is crisp and clear. The poetry, while a little more difficult at times than it needs to be, attempts to follow the metre and style of the original Old English.<br />Beowulf is without a doubt a grand epic which needs a careful reading to pick up the nuances of style and language specific to itself. Heaney makes no apologies for the difficulty of the poem. The reader must work to get the most out of the epic that he or she can. But the careful reader will be rewarded.<br />There are many critics who feel that Mr. Heaney has gone too far to modernize the text of the poem. Some have said that Heaney makes his Beowulf too Irish by his use of traditional Irish words. With this I disagree. A translator necessarily brings his own style and mannerisms to the work. A reading of the introduction to the work helps to explain the translator's goals and ultimate word choices. The intoduction is quite valuable and for a change in works of this type quite readable.<br />What we have here is a reading for modern society. Heaney presents the work without turning it into a novel for the pop generation. He presents the poem in verse that modern readers can sink their collective teeth into. He does not dumb down the work for easy consumption.<br />As I said of another addition to this poem, read it you'll be glad you did. And you may even enjoy it in the process.	2002-02-28
US	49116915	R2CSEZBCI9E3GD	0393958043	442150439	Alice in Wonderland (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Classic Textbook Version of Alice	The Norton Critical Edition of Alice in Wonderland is the classic textbook of three of Lewis Carroll's most widely read works. The book contains authoritative texts of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Through the Looking Glass, and The Hunting of the Snark.<br />Any one looking for a review of the two Alice books should see my review of The Annotated Alice, ed. Martin Gardner as I will limit my review to the additional material supplied by this edition.<br />The Hunting of the Snark is presented in its entirety but without the classic Holliday illustrations. The poem is a masterwork of nonsense that would have been helped by adding the illustrations. After all, the edition leaves in the Tenniel illustrations to the Alice books. Snark is not the easiest poem to read and Donald Gray is somewhat sparse in his annotations.<br />The remainder of the book is broken into two sections: Background and Literary Criticism. The Background section gives a fairly good portrait of C.L.Dodgson who became the nonsense writer Lewis Carroll. Included are selections from biographies, letters to friends and children and selections from the diaries. The annotations in this section are fairly extensive and helpful.<br />The Essays in Criticism are the weakest section of the entire work. From my perspective they are dated and unnecessarily complex for the work at hand. Most of this section is made up of essays dealing with the Freudian analysis of the works. One may take this with a grain of salt. Everyone is entitled to there own opinion. The problem with this section is that the analysis seems to be somewhat dated. We have edited versions of the same tired Empson essay that was written in 1935. Perhaps the 3rd edition of this text will update the criticism and make this section more useful to the modern reader.<br />This edition is worth having if you are a student of the Alice works or have a more than basic interest in Carroll/Dodgson and the development of Victorian Children's Literature. For a few dollars more I would highly recommend purchasing the Definitive Edition of the Annotated Alice instead.<br />Recommended with reservations.	2002-01-31
US	49116915	R2EZRA6NU98GQF	0393048470	718203903	The Annotated Alice: The Definitive Edition	Books	4	142	151	N	N	Master of Nonsense	The Annotated Alice provides a treasure chest of information on the two Alice books and on the man, Lewis Carroll who was responsible for their creation.<br />Martin Gardner provides annotations throughout the texts of both Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass and What Alice Found There. Gardner's annotations help explain the inside jokes and mathematical and linguistic puzzles that fill the stories.<br />Reading the Alice books as an adult is quite a different experience than it was as a child. The books' complexity really stands out on a careful reading. In fact, what are generally regarded as children's stories can be amazingly frustrating to read due to the complexity of the language and the almost constant stream of puns that are sometimes lost on modern audiences. One must remember that the stories are told purely for fun. Unlike other Victorian children's literature one gets no morals, plot development, or character development here. Alice is a yound child who stays a young child throughout her adventures. She neither matures or learns anything from her adventures.<br />This is a very nice volume in its own right. It contains complete authoritative texts of both books and includes the supressed episode &quot;The Wasp in the Wig.&quot; The original Tenniel illustrations are crisp and clear. The only difficulty is that the annotations are placed on the same page as the text in a small column that sometimes supplies more information than the text itself. The annotations themselves range from the definitional to the clearly eccentric. One can read all of them or only the ones that he or she is interested in.<br />On the whole this is an excellent volume well worth the effort to read if one has any interest in the world of nonsense literature.	2002-01-14
US	49116915	R2ILIZPXIEEB33	0670831220	80791494	The Fourth Horseman	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Grim Warning for Mankind	In his Short History of Epidemics, Plagues,Famine and Other Scourges, Andrew Nikiforuk makes the point that all the major diseases of history have been caused not by a single &quot;germ theory&quot; but as the result of humanity's misuse of the planet and its resources.<br />The world as we know it is surrounded by a &quot;superorganism&quot; of bacteria, viruses, and fungi that normally interacts just fine with man. However when man, through his actions, throws off the balance the superorganism reacts in lethal ways.<br />The book gives one lots of trivia on some of the great killers of our time.Spotlighted are malaria, leprosy, bubonic plague, smallpox, the flu and even AIDS.Nikiforuk treats all these diseases in a matter of fact way and even injects his own gallows humor in the telling.<br />Some of the material seems  somewhat dated (especially concerning the AIDS material) but all in all this is a short volume that speaks to man's interaction with his environment. It may not be pleasant reading throughout but it is rather necessary. The book's final message is that the Fourt Horseman always takes his quarter and unless man changes the way he uses the resources given him he can always expect disease to be close behind.	2001-12-26
US	49116915	R3J3HZH4JNA10	0140443339	167010526	The Oresteia: Agamemnon; The Libation Bearers; The Eumenides	Books	4	19	25	N	N	From the Blood Feud to Democracy	The Oresteia is the only extant Greek trilogy. Made up of Agememnon, The Libation Bearers, and the Eumenides the trilogy presents man's progress from blood feud to the beginnings of democracy.<br />Agememnon is the traditional and essential Greek tragedy. This play show mankind at its most savage. (...) It is the second generation of the curse on the house of Atreus. (...) Clytaemnestra is one of literature's great creations and a memorable character known for her cunning and ruthlessness.<br />The Libation Bearers continues the story. Agememnon's son Orestes plots revenge with his sister, Electra. The message here seems to be that blood begets blood. (...) <br />The Eumenides is the first courtroom drama. Here we witness the birth of the democratic process. (...) Man has moved from the age of the blood feud to the dawn of democracy in less than 300 pages.<br />On the whole the trilogy is not light reading. The Fagles translation attempts to preserve the poetry of the work to a large extent. However Aeschylus was never easy to relate to even in the 5th Century B.C. he was considered archaic. The trilogy deserves a read just on the strength of its importance to western civilazation. The reader needs a good bit of patience but will find himself rewarded if he sticks with this work.<br />If reading the Fagles translation it may be helpful to read the lengthy introduction \\"The Serpent and the Eagle\\" for a good guide  to the work. The intro is long and somewhat tedius but it places the work in an historical perspective that is helpful as one gets deeper and deeper into the text. The textual notes are inconvieniently placed at the end of the work which make them a chore to read except for the most interested scholars.<br />Try this one you won't regret it.	2001-12-07
US	49116915	RXCUGFBHZOAK7	0374140162	488374722	Dirty Havana Trilogy	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Gritty Look at the Underclass	Pedro Juan Gutierrez writes of a Cuba that few people could imagine. This is not the jewel of the Carribbean that many people want to see up close. Havana becomes very much a character in this novel and it is not one to fall in love with. It is a city in ruins populated by ghosts of survivors doing whatever they can to get by.<br />Banned in Cuba but widely acclaimed thoughout most of the Latin world Gutierrez's novel is a loosely aggregated mixture of short stories that introduce the reader to the  most sordid group of characters put on the page since either Henry Miller or Charles Bukowski. There are very few characters that many of us would feel comfortable with in the novel. It is made up of drug peddlers, theives, whores and assorted others whose main goal in life is to get by. The main character, Pedro Juan, seems to be semi-autobiographical.<br />Life for the people of depression ridden Havana is a chore which is only broken up by rum, drugs, and the very casual act of non descript sex. In fact much criticism has dealt with the level of sexuality in the book. One needs to be warned that the book is extremely graphic. If you are put off by graphic sex look elsewhere. However, the sex in the book serves its purpose. Sex is not associated with love nor even friendhip necessarily. It is simply an outlet for relief from the crushing oppression of the daily surroundings.<br />The book is not the easiest read but the stories move from deeply philosophical to outright disgusting. It seems that the author will do almost anything to make his point no matter how disgusting. In a way this excess can be both positive and negative. The book opens up new avenues of thought on the failure of Carribbean communism after the fall of the Soviet Union. Unfortunately it does not do more to show us the way out for the characters.<br />Dirty Havana Trilogy may not be a book for everyone but if you can handle it it will give you a look at a society far from our ownand from an insiders point of view. Read it at your own risk you may learn something about man that provides a lesson in survival	2001-11-07
US	49116915	R30JSYKS8IZ22L	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Roman National Epic Comes Alive	It can be difficult to write a review of one of the milestone pieces of literature of Western civilization. Love it or hate it the Aeneid maintains its position as one of the greatest epics ever composed.<br />The story is simple enough, Aeneas, a Trojan, and a small band of followers must set out to find a new homeland after the fall of Troy. Virgil's verse translated by Robert Fitzgerald reads like a modern day adventure novel.<br />The book is divided into roughly two parts: the first half of the poem tells the story of the fall of Troy complete with the greatest description of the Trojan horse story in print. This half of the poem matches the Odyssey of Homer providing a narrative of the unlucky travelers who must move on to their eventual homeland with the help of the gods and fate. Here are the stories of Dido, the funeral games, and the descent into the Underworld. <br />The second half of the book parallels the Iliad of Homer. This half details the landing at Latium and the war of attrition between the Latins and the Trojans. This includes the epic battle between Turnus and Aeneas.<br />While the poem has a tendency to become a little tedious it is a monumental piece of literature. Written as a national literary epic for the Roman empire it exemplifies the virtues of heroism, faith and family loyalty that were to be the hallmarks of the good Roman citizen. As an example Aeneas has a tendency to be too heroic and less human but the narrative drive is there all the same. At times the poem reads like a Roman propaganda piece but not too often.<br />I remember struggling with Virgil in a  high school Latin class and wondering what the point was. But now, after twenty years and with the help of an excellent translation the story becomes an enjoyable one indeed.	2001-10-22
US	49116915	R2EZZVBOZNN449	0786885637	874207183	Holy Smoke: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	Y	Confusing as to where it's going	Holy Smoke is a confusing effort by the Campion sisters. The novel starts out as an interesting exploration of the relationship between a cult deprogrammer and is unwilling to  be swayed client and ends as a wierd obsessive love story.<br />The client is 20ish Ruth Baron an Australian girl who has fallen under the influence of an Indian guru. The deprogrammer is a slick older American named PJ Waters. The method of therapy is a three day talk session at a remote Outback farmhouse when all beliefs are questioned.<br />The first 150  pages or so lay out a solid framework exploring the mind sets of both participants fairly well. The last 80 pages or so allow this framework to crumble. What started out so strongly turns into a sexual power game between the two characters which leaves both fragile and damaged.<br />On the whole this is not great literature but a fairly straight forward story that almost reads like a screenplay for the movie that was  released at roughly the same time as its publication. The supporting characters are an interesting lot with the Baron extended family more in need of therapy than the daughter. <br />This one may be worth a read on a weekend with no big plans but I wouldn't go out of my way to read it.	2001-09-20
US	49116915	RNTLAFEPBTH7	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	232	242	N	N	Intense Southern Gothic	Absalom, Absalom! is Faulkner's great novel of the rise and fall of the Sutpen dynasty and a great allegory of the rise and fall of the Old South. It should be noted that first of all this is probably Faulkner's greatest and most difficult work.<br />The book told through three interconnected narratives tells the life story of Thomas Sutpen. The story parallels the rise of the Old South. The narratives are not straight forward and present a constant challenge to the reader. But if the reader does not close the book in despair the rewards are great indeed.<br />The mood of the storytelling alone is worth the price of admission here. The long flowing sentences are marvels and testaments to Faulker's skill as a writer. The narrative drive makes reading the book almost like reading Greek tragedy. We gets views of Sutpens life from several townspeople and also across generations.<br />This is the first book that I've read in a long time that made me feel like I had accomplished something when I finished it. You don't so much read this novel as you become lost in it. Jump in get your feet wet and prepare for some of the most intense Southern gothic that you are ever likely to read.	2001-09-12
US	49116915	R1912VUL8H8B0U	1873176090	351876350	Tales from the Clit: A Female Experience of Pornography	Books	2	8	10	N	Y	Glad we have the First Amendment	This series of twenty-seven essays from the Feminists Against Censorship covers from the woman's perspective. The book has a tendency to drag in its middle section. It is simply too much of the same argument. Yes we know that the United Kingdom has harsh censorship laws. We know that some porn can be educational as well as entertaining. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a big proponent or opponent of the genre. But I do feel that consenting adults have the right to decide what materials they, within reason, are allowed to bring into their homes and to read and purchase. This book gives the very basics of the argument but don't look for much resolution of the problem in the pages of this book.	2001-08-09
US	49116915	R3JJYRK5BSJFNB	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A Novel of the Failure of Diplomacy	One would think that after 760 reviews that there would be little left to say about any book. That being said I will still add a few words after reading this thousand plus page opus.<br />First of all, I am not a rabid Clancy fan. Yes, I did read some of his earlier works and found them to be thought provoking and exciting from a technical point of view.<br />The Bear and the Dragon is not a technothriller in the usual sense of the word. It is a slow sometimes thought provoking read detailing the failure of conventional diplomacy. That being said, let me emphasise, the book rumbles along for about 800 pages before the real action for lovers of military fiction begins.<br />In its premise we have multiple subplots that connect to bring about global disaster. There is an attempted assassination of a high ranking Russian official. The killing of a papal nuncio and a baptist minister during the midst of Chinese/American Trade Talks brings about a virtual collapse of the Chinese economy and a grand scale retaliation by the Chinese Politburo. The plot involves the invasion of Siberia by the Chinese army in hopes of revitalizing their economy.<br />Into this mix comes the idea the Russia and the United States are now allies due to the fall of the Communist system. In fact, Russia is now a member of NATO for purposes of halting the Chinese aggression.<br />Clany blends all of the above into a plot that is compelling at times but at others is a little hard to take seriously. At its best the action is a little far fetched and awkward. At its worst the plot is sheer folly. Clancy does in fact seem to know his hardware but his understanding of individual characterization and human emotion is far from genius. The characters at times are indistinguishable and seem little more than talking heads for Clancy's conservative preaching. The developing relationship between a spy and his agent feels as though it was ghost written by a teenager with over active hormones.<br />All that said, The Bear and the Dragon  is not a bad book but one which could have been much better had more attention been paid to the problems of diplomacy and cultural differences. These are the issues that needed to be addressed more than the outbreak of a &quot;video game&quot; type war that was easily resolved in the last 100 pages or so.<br />Clancy has a great knack for dehumanizing war with technological advances. This is unfortunate in that it seems to make the characters little more than chess pieces on a board. No one really dies in Clancy's world but the bad guys. The result of this is that war becomes a fantastic game rather than the horror it really is. <br />If I had been a true Clancy fan I might have been disappointed by this effort. In general the novel was fair but it could have been so much more.	2001-07-30
US	49116915	R37FOIGDNKUQ63	0671034677	543065158	The Embrace: A True Vampire Story	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Interesting Story Poorly Written	In The Embrace Aphrodite Jones tells the story of the murders of Rick and Ruth Wendorf by a self proclaimed coven of &quot;vampires.&quot; The story telling is often flawed by Ms.Jones use of shifting points of view and highly &quot;purple&quot; prose.<br />Essentially The Embrace is an eye-opening account of lost teens in America that raises more questions than it really answers. The story of Rod Ferell and his followers was an interesting one if just for the fact that it opens a door on a world that most of us don't know about either by choice or plain ignorance. The children depicted in the book could have been helped if only someone showed interest and concern. More than the story of two murders this book is a morality tale of the childern who are lost in today's society.<br />Had this book been better written it may have reached a larger audience. If it is available in your local bargain book store it is worth the read but I wouldn't go out of my way to hunt it down.	2001-06-18
US	49116915	R1ESM5O8X6H22N	0451527402	437599300	Beowulf (Signet Classics)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Glad I Read It Again	I first read Beowulf in this edition as a high scholl student and I must admit that at the time I was not thrilled. When I learned that a new translation was available and rising on the charts, I felt that I should give this one a new look.<br />Beowulf is the oldest extant poem in the English language but Raffel brings it to life. This is not the poetry of a long dead language but the vibrant poetry of today. In high school we were forced to read this for its literary technique not for the powerful story conveyed. This may have been my initial problem with the work. In retrospect this is a great story. <br />Beowulf is the heroic epic on grand scale. We have good kings, bad kings, wars and battles with monsters. Beowulf does not only give us adventure however. It presents a unique historical document of the Sixth Century. It explains the codes that the various tribes lived by for their survival.<br />This is a tale of kings and warriors that one owes himself the time to explore and enjoy. You won't be disappointed.	2001-06-04
US	49116915	R38UVOAPYC508F	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Downward Spiral of a Family	Tawni O'Dell's Back Roads presents a portrait of a family falling apart. The cover would lead one to believe that this is simply a small town coming of age story but the plot goes much deeper. This is a story ripe with incest, murder and family disfunction to rival anything in today's tabloids.<br />The story's protagonist is 20 year old Harley Altmyer. He is the sole provider for his family of three younger sisters after the  the murder of his father. The problem is that Harley's life is falling apart.<br />While the book does give one an interesting read the ending is extremely contrived and leaves something to be desired. While I would recommend it in general, it is not one of the best books that I have read this year.	2001-05-23
US	49116915	R1PFR9SOFRGN8K	0679600205	648013861	The Best Short Stories of Dostoevsky (Modern Library)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Dostoevsky's Grim View of Mankind	This collection of six short stories and the novella Notes from the Underground give the reader a glimpse into the mind of one of the 19th Centuries greatest authors. The collection literally covers the entire career of the novelist. The stories offer compact detailed descriptions of life in St. Petersburg at the end of the last century.<br />While the stories are certainly not happy they are worth reading. The selections include the following: White Nights: a love story between a dreamer and a woman he meets and loses in a time span of 4 days. This story hearkens to later dreamers in Dostoevsky's writings including the Underground Man.<br />In The Honest Thief we see a more mature writer grappling with the idea of guilt associated with a minor crime. The honest thief of the title is Yemalyan who may be the genesis for later characters who are unable to avoid crime that surrounds them<br />The Christmas Tree and a Wedding is a straight forward story with a twist that is almost O. Henry-ish in its finale. It is probably the most perfect story in the collection.<br />The Peasant Marey is a recollection from the author's youth which was written during a prison stay. The purpose is to show the nobility of the peasant class.<br />Notes From Underground has been reviewed earlier and needs no more discussion at this point.<br />A Gentle Creature is an excellent example of realism. The story recounts the tortured thoughts of a less than perfect husband on the occassion of his young wife's suicide.<br />The Dream of a Ridiculous Man recounts Dostoevsky's final analysis of the human condition. Man is essentially good but can be corrupted bt reason and science.<br />On the whole this is a good introduction to the author's shorter works that with careful reading can be if not joyful quite meaningful.	2001-05-07
US	49116915	R388J4OCVGRQ9	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	120	128	N	N	Deep analysis of the human condition	Notes From The Underground is Dostoevsky's grand look at the human condition from the perspective of a man living on the fringes of society. The short novel provides the key to much of the author's later and more fleshed out novels.<br />Presented in two parts the novel tells the story of the unnamed Undergound Man who is forced into a life of inaction by the reason driven society that he finds himself in.<br />Part I of the novel is a long monologue to an invisible audience which explains how the Underground Man came into existence. It is a masterpiece of Existentialist fiction and has been the cornerstone for many later writers including Freud and Camus. The ideas expressed in this part  of the novel deal with the character's interactions with himself. This is also the mother of all anti-hero literature. Through the Underground Man's speech we identify him as an over sensitive man of great intellegence. We begin to identify with the character and understand him. While this part of the novel is idea laden it presents one of the great characters of modern fiction.<br />Part II of the novel is much more accessible to today's reader. This part of the novel deals with the Underground Man's interactions with the society around him. It is in this section that we see that he  incapable of reacting in a normal way with the persons that he comes into contact with. He is not the rational man of Part I but a person driven to inaction by his own personal circumstances. He is spiteful, mean spirited and incapable of giving or receiving love to or from others.<br />On the whole this is a very important piece of world literature which deserves a very careful reading. The novel reads like an onion with each  new chapter giving us deeper and deeper insight into the character. The modern reader may well grow tired of the writing style of the novel but if one has patience and reads carefully he will be rewarded.	2001-04-27
US	49116915	RQ1LAFGYR223F	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Compact Analysis of Relationships	Steve Martin has grown from being that wild and crazy guy of the '70s into a remarkably perceptive writer of the 90's. While Shopgirl may not be great literature it is however worthy of a careful read.<br />In this novella we follow the life and loves of Mirabelle Buttersfeld, a shopgirl at the Beverly Hills Neiman Marcus. Mirabelle is a little like all of us shy, not real sure of herself and looking for someone to love her for who she is. In the course of the novel she becomes involved with the much older Ray Porter. Ray uses Mirabelle for his own ends but over time becomes quite fond of her for reasons that he either can't or won't admit to himself.<br />Martin is extremely perceptive in his writing and the reader sees the relationship from both sides. It becomes a sort of &quot;he said-she said&quot; with the narrator interjecting himself only enough to make sure that the reader notes the differences. The style of the story takes a little getting used to. There is almost no real dialogue to speak of but rather a detached third person monologue taking in the lives of all the characters.<br />If there is a weakness in the story it is in the development of some of the secondary characters. At one point an old army acquaintance of Mirabelle's father is introduced and then disappears. We get no clear picture of Mirabelle'snemesis, Lisa Cramer, who does however provide some of the story's best comic relief.<br />All in all this novella provides the reader insight into the relationship process of the '90's and a good deal to think about. The novella reads relatively well and is a small triumph for the newly mature Steve Martin. I look forward to more to come in the future.	2001-04-09
US	49116915	R2N7BFV2FHQBB6	0452262267	197057281	Hold Tight: A Novel	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Great Writing But Not Sure of What It Wants To Be	Christopher Bram writes extremely well however this is not Bram at his best. A few years ago I read Father of Frankenstein and was impressed with the depth that Bram gave to his characters and settings. He literally brought the reader into the now gone Hollywood world of James Whale. Hold Tight takes us into another world, that of early WWII New York but the characters leave us flat and the story becomes more romance novel than substance.<br />Bram's premise for this novel is a good one. Seaman Hank Fayette is arrested at a gay brothel while on shore leave in New York. Rather than court martial him they turn him into a prostitute in order to capture spies in the same brothel that he was arrested in.<br />If Bram had stuck to this plot line the story would have been much more interesting. Bram however uses the next third of the novel building a relationship between Fayette and the black houseboy, Juke. The Fayette/Juke storyline is the stuff of trashy romance novels and really does nothing to advance the plot of the novel. If you want to write a romance novel well and good but don't cloak it as as espionage thriller.<br />The characterizations in this novel tend to be disappointing as well. Characters drift in and out of the story with very little development and there is plenty of stereotyping throughout the book.<br />If the neding of this novel is supposed to show the redeeming power of friendship between the gay and straight worlds that point is missed completely. The ending is contrived and feels as if it were added just to provide a conclusion to the love story presented earlier.<br />Mr. Bram can write much better than this and I hope he will do so in the future. Overall the read was not a bad one but rather one that could have been much better had it been able to deliver what it promised.	2001-04-02
US	49116915	RJVH00ZMV3IT1	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	4	208	212	N	Y	Magnifico	Irving Stone had the ability to do for a single person what James Michener had the ability to do for an entire country. Stone gives us biography on a large scale and it is impossible to read him without learning something or coming away from the novel a better person.<br />The Agony and the Ecstacy is the &quot;biographical novel&quot; of Michelangelo but much more than that it is the story of the Italian Renaissance in all its glory. Through Michelangelo's eyes one gets a full feeling for Florence and Rome at the time. Stone paints with a broad brush the stories of wars, feuding princes, religious machinations, and the wonderful art that the Renaissance produced.<br />This novel is however much more than that. It is an analysis of the struggle that is necessary to create. We experience the creation of just about every major work of art of Michelangelo and the personal struggles that went into the creative process. We see the artist as he struggles with family, princes, popes and other artists to get his designs accepted.And finally we see the glory of a life well lived as the artist dies leaving a truly monumental body of work behind.<br />I don't know how much of this work was novel and how much was pure biography but I do know that the result was one of the most enjoyable reading experiences that I've had for many years. The reader need not worry that he or she is not an expert on Renaissance art when this work is read. Supplemental material and photographs of the works discussed may be found on several web sites. Jump in and enjoy.	2001-03-13
US	49116915	R2I6CL11IQE3MG	0394569962	76337633	The Fourth K	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Exploration of Power	Mario Puzo developed one dominant theme in all of his writings. The theme was man's acquisition and use of power. Whether it be the power of criminal connections in the Godfather and its sequels or of the President of the United States in the Fourth K, Puzo explored the notion in depth.<br />The Fourth K was not a commercial success. At times it political thriller plot seems a little contrived but Puzo kept hammering on the notion of what absolute power can do to an essentially good man.<br />Francis Kennedy becomes evil not through any particular desire to commit bad acts but through his desire to do good and out of a notion of caring for his country. When terrorists strike at the United States by kidnapping and killing the daughter of the President he uses his enormous power to exact his revenge and to make the world a better place. This use of power puts the President essentially on the same level as the terrorist.<br />While the ending of this book is somewhat contrived, I feel that it is a book worth reading if you are a fan. However if you are interested in this genre there are better authors out there.	2001-01-23
US	49116915	RLKNOILVTATQT	044651912X	193260978	Batman: The Ultimate Evil	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Important Subject Matter But Why Batman?	Andrew Vachss is an important writer of crime fiction who know his way around a good detective story:fast action, interesting characters and sharp resolution. In his series of Burke novels he has proven himself a worthy advocate for children in abusive settings.<br />In Batman:The Ultimate Evil he does much the same. The Batman character can be replaced by any similar character and we would have much the same story. The novel takes on the issue of sexual abuse of children. Batman the hunter of criminals takes on the issue with a vengence.<br />The character development is somewhat spotty, as I said Batman can be replaced with any vanilla crimefighter and the result would be much the same. The author exposes his issues to an audience that normally would not read novels as has been said in another review of this book. The information Vachss provides is important in that it exposes the reader to information he would not normally have access to. Child abuse is a major cause of crime in later years. This much has been proven by sociological research. The sexual abuse of children has to be stopped as it is ruining whole generations. If it takes a comic book character to show this to the world then so be it.<br />Vachss purpose is a noble one. The issues are real. I only wish Mr. Vachss had fleshed this one out with one of his stronger characters. The story seems a little too contrived with the Batman as the protagonist. I only hope that the readers won't pass up the major issues by looking only at the comic book surface of the story.	2001-01-03
US	49116915	R2R03SLEN5U35P	1577487761	557294994	Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ (Classics Library (Barbour Bargain))	Books	3	67	72	N	N	Still Powerful After 120 Years	In 1880 Union General Lew Wallace was stationed at a Western outpost when he began writing Ben Hur to dispel the boredom of his job. General Wallace who fought in some of the major campaigns of the Civil War was also questioning the meaning of his faith when the novel was written.<br />There are few who do not know the basic premise of this novel and fewer still who have not seen the monumental MGM film based on it. This story chronicles the life of Judah Ben Hur and his desire for revenge against the Roman Messala and all of Rome for the wrongs done him and his family.<br />In plot the story is simple enough. Ben Hur has been wrongly convicted of an attempt to kill the Roman Governor of Judea and sentenced to death on the Roman galleys. His fortune has been stolen and his family locked away in a dungeon. Ben Hur survives the galleys and defeats his enemy in the now famous chariot race at the Circus at Antioch.<br />If this were the end of Wallace's story we would have been left with a decent story of revenge and nothing more. However, Wallace incorporates into his story (bookends it really) with the story of the Passion of Jesus.<br />Wallace uses the coming of Jesus to examine the issues of his own faith. To analyze the dual nature of Jesus as King and Redeemer. To Ben Hur and the fiercely nationalist Jews of his time the world was waiting for a King to come to overthrow the power of Rome. Ben Hur sees this king as an element of his revenge against Rome and uses his restored fortune to build an army in support of the king.<br />By the end of the novel Ben Hur realizes that the King was not to come to overthrow Rome but to be a Redeemer of souls. That the kingdom to be created was not to be one of this world.<br />Wallace's narrative takes some time to get used to. It is sluggish and detail oriented. Literally everything is described. If you are looking for a fast read this book is not for you. If you are looking for a novel in the grand scale which also works as a powerful religous meditation give this one a try. The book was a great best seller when it was written and it can still be powerful 120 years later.powerful religous meditation give this one a try. The book was a great best seller when it was written and it can still be powerful 120 years later.	2000-12-27
US	49116915	R1T97S0VLFL5G8	0671874845	927219378	The CARPETBAGGERS	Books	4	47	49	N	N	Robbins at his best	Harold Robbins, love him or hate him you cannot deny that he was a master storyteller. While The Carpetbaggers may not be great literature it is a great read. This book along with Puzo's The Godfather are great examples of the American power story. <br />The book gives us a twenty year glimpse into the life of Jonas Cord. Cord turns everything he touches into money while his own life is falling apart. The interesting thing about this novel is not really the story it tells but the way in which the story is told.<br />Told through the lives of the people Cord comes into contact with, Robbins gives us enough material for five novels let alone one. Here we have the history of the early twentieth century through the lives of a ex-gunfighter, a Hollywood actress, a movie company executive, and the proverbial prostitute with the heart of gold.<br />Robbins research into his time period was exhaustive and his storytelling ability is flawless. If there is a problem with the novel it is that it tends to go a little too deep for a little too long. No one character can be so much a part of the times that he is  involved in so many historical events.<br />Part of the fun of any novel of this type is discovering who the major characters were based on. Cord is a clear pictue of Howard Hughes while Rina Marlow seems to be loosely based on Jean Harlow.<br />The reader needs to become immersed in this novel. One does not so much as read it but lives the lives of these characters if only for a little while. You let this one take you away and you embark on one hell of a ride.<br />Pop fiction like this is like candy. It does not stimulate great or exciting thought but it sure is fun. Isn't that the reason for reading in the first place?	2000-11-21
US	49116915	RJYF422DHJYI3	1581950233	823978283	Neighbors	Books	4	38	39	N	Y	There Goes the Neighborhood	It was with great pleasure that I read that Zoland Books was reissuing  Berger's classic dark comedy. I had been looking for this book for many  years and it has sadly been out of print. The book still stands as one of  the funniest books of the last twenty-five years.   Earl Keese is the  classic surburban gentleman: well rounded, established, slightly boring. He  is living the perfect conventional life until his entire world is shattered  by the moving in of Harry and Ramona. These are at first glance the  neighbors from hell. Younger, less sophisticated, crass and alluring they  are everything Keese is not.   The first hundred and fifty pages of this  novel ranks as one of the funniest set pieces in modern literature. One has  to remember that this is a novel of all out guerilla warfare between two  adult neighbors. If the idea seems childish at first one has to remember  that these are adults acting as children. The odd thing is Keese grows to  like these new people at the expense of his own family whom he begins to  see as they really are. Wife Enid is a boozy bore, while daughter Elaine is  a petty thief. Nothing is to Keese as it has seemed.   By the end of the  novel Keese is doubting his own way of life and wants to be more like the  neighbors that he started out hating. The book is extemely funny biut sort  of sad also and well worth the read.	2000-09-05
US	49116915	R2IYCJ6ABI87SZ	0688123368	79115681	Fast Sofa	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Play This Novel Loud?	It's a strange feeling when one reads a novel and literally has nothing to  say about it. I purchased this book in 1993 largely because of its  interesting layout. At the time a book with a soundtrack was quite unique.     Bruce Craven presents a horrorshow roadtrip that takes the reader  nowhere. Even though Mr. Craven can be quite descriptive in his writing  (some of his images are lush and quite beautiful) one gets the sense that  all the description is somehow wasted. I know critics will say that this is  a Generation X novel that this reader just does not understand but I assure  you that I was of the same age of the characters when this book was written  and so were my friends and we did not live the life of Rick Jeffers.   The  character development in the novel is sparse and I found myself simply  liking none of the characters even though some sympathy must be granted the  long suffering Tamara and the slightly loony Jules.   If one wants to get  the true feel of Gen X I would suggest Couplands' Generation X,  Ellis'  Less Than Zero, or Hornburg's Bongwater. For your money Fast Sofa is a wild  ride that can be skipped.	2000-08-28
US	49116915	R30DVAP34SYHA3	0316287458	671332901	The Ebony Tower	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Multilayered Word Pictures From a Master	If you're looking for the easy bedtime read John Fowles short fiction  collection may not be what you are searching for. If you're looking for  thought provoking contemporary fiction by a master this is for you.   No  one ever said a Fowles book would be easy and The Ebony Tower is no  exception. The premise is five interlocking short stories all in a way  centered around a medieval myth (which the author provides in brillent  translation). Each story attempts not only to address its immediate subject  but entire concepts and reflections on life and art as  well. The stories  force one to look at more than the daily lives of the characters but to see  deeper(a sort of removing of the various layers that make up individual  events of these peoples lives). While the individual plots may seem  somewhat foriegn to first time readers if you stick it out to the end  you'll come away with a new outlook on the world, art, history and the  conflicts between the generations.Add in Mr. Fowles lush word pictures and  you can't go wrong.	2000-08-09
