US	49116866	R3MWNZB4UQLY5P	0786932287	637698164	The Lone Drow (The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	2	15	22	N	Y	Quite possibly the most simplistic FR book ever	I have a love/hate relationship with Bob Salvatore's work.  It's fun, light and genuinely interesting, but at the same time it's all the same.  With this installment I get the distinct feeling that the depth and character development have all been done and RA is just riding it out.  This is sad and it reminds me of Ann Rice's later work since both authors wrote some really creative material early on and then just replicated it over and over.  Well, on to the book. <br /> <br />The characters in this book are well known, and nothing is added to them.  Drizzt and Cattie-Brie continue their incredibly tiresome, pre-teen infatuation with each other and (shockingly!) nothing comes of it in this book either.  They each have introspective revelations about it ... but then they do that in every recent book.  Wulfgar and Regis add no depth to the book beyond an unstoppable killing machine and a weary, reluctant leader.  Drizzt continues to torment himself and single-handedly kill about 300 orcs.  You think Bruenor's going to die but there's a little twist that you knew had to happen in one way or another to keep him around.  In short there's *nothing new* here. <br /> <br />The main villain is somewhat interesting but Salvatore never really explores his character, instead spending about 65% of the page space detailing fight scenes that range from improbable to impossible (yes I get the whole \\"Drow agility\\" thing).  As someone who practices combatitive art forms I can tell that RA has never bothered to work out to the point of exhaustion; his repetitive descriptions of people fighting for hours on end day after day against fresh fighters are ridiculous and border on insulting.  There are about 100 strokes of \\"good luck\\" in this book that manage to keep the main characters alive, and sometimes they are as lazy as him saying, \\"somehow the spears keep missing the battered king\\". <br /> <br />If you read at about a 9th grade level then I suggest you buy this book.  It will make you feel good, offering you some emotional psuedo-highs and psuedo-lows and pretending to offer the same insightful introspection as the first few Drizzt books, while really delivering up tiresome condescension.  For anyone growing tired of watching Salvatore spend the same nickel over and over I would suggest skipping this one.	2005-08-02
US	49116866	R2IQP6RO0CHZTU	0786935723	352968975	Silverfall: Stories of the Seven Sisters	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Eegads	I have about four shelves of fantasy books, mostly FR, and I can tell you I almost didn't bother to finish this one.  The allure was learning more about the seven sisters, a couple of whom are almost never mentioned anywhere else.  The problem with this book is that I didn't get much about them out of it.  In fact, I didn't get much of anything. <br /> <br />Most of the book is hack and slash, which I can enjoy if it's well done, but it was really just mediocre.  The plot was almost forgotten in the sense that it was really used as an action delivery vehicle.  It felt a bit like a Arnold movie, one of the really dumb ones like Red Sonya.  When the end finally came it happened in kind of a POOF! manner that left you sitting there wondering how someone could write a 370 page book and dedicate about 5 pages to wrapping up the plot.  It was almost an afterthought! <br /> <br />Plot, development, etc., these were lacking, but by FAR the most irritating thing about Greenwood's writing is the bizarre sexuality he forces upon the unwitting reader.  I'm a huge fan of adding sexuality to books if it fits, but Greenwood's romantic touch reads like a sledgehammer to the face.  Out of the 7 sisters I believe every one except the ghost shoved her tongue in some guy's mouth - almost in those words.  Not only was the style grotesque, in the tradition of 14 year old pron, it was completely out of place.  All of these super powerful mages happen to be sexy little kittens who can't control themselves even when faced with massive, life-threatening conspiracies?  Bah.  Anyone who thinks I'm a prude can find me lurking in any number of Hollywood clubs each weekend, so when I say this stuff was out of place, rest assured it's not because I'm uptight.  It was simply poor writing.	2005-08-02
US	49116866	R1UM8J1JQ1YJ2S	1588468550	52338904	Gehenna: The Final Night (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very well written	First things first, this is my first exposure to Vampire: the Masquerade (VtM), so if you don't want a noob's opinion skip this review.  On the other hand I've been reading fantasy for about 15 years; I just happened to see this particular book in a used book store and grabbed it.  In a way I'm sorry since it's basically the beginning of a re-birth of the VtM world, and I never experienced that world before this (plus now I know the fate of many characters whom I suspect are regulars in the world).    At any rate, this book was surprisingly well written.  I'm a bit of a snob when it comes to bad writing, but Marmell was able to weave a tale that kept me truly interested.  The main character (Beckett) was a sort of morally grey character that I genuinely liked.  None of the characters were over the top, the dialogue flowed, I was never left wondering what in the nine hells the author was talking about - in short, this book avoided all of the major problems I've run into in other similar books.  The plot was fast-paced and jumped around a lot, but the layout of the book made it fluid and easy to follow.    All in all I really enjoyed this book and can't think of anything bad to say about it (which is in itself a testament to its quality).  I simply wish I had read some other stuff in the VtM world first.    *EDIT*  Almost 3 years later to the day I just finished re-reading this book after having read all 13 clan novels, the Red Death trilogy, the Grail trilogy and the Blood Curse trilogy.  I feel now that Ari is either tied with Fleming as the most talented writer in the V:tM world, or even slightly better.  Another reviewer was correct to point out that Gehenna is waaaay too big a topic to tackle in a single book, but Ari did a stand-up job, even weaving in several sub-plots that enhanced rather than detracted from the main story.    My impression of the V:tM novels overall is that World of Darkness doesn't particularly care about this arm of its products, as most ofthe books are mediocre to poor; I'm thinking particularly about the Tremere clan novel and the Red Death trilogy, but probably more than half of the clan novels were a disjointed mess.  This author should be given far more assignments in the new RPG novel world, if they bother to expand it beyond the few novels that currently exist.	2005-07-08
US	49116866	R5RNS9PUVG8RZ	0736044043	905054436	Mastering Jujitsu (Mastering Martial Arts Series)	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Great way to fill in theoretical gaps	If your BJJ instructor is like mine, then he doesn't talk much about theory or high-level strategy - he's too busy showing you how to do the stuff.  I found this book to be the perfect compliment to a \\"less talk, more work\\" training regimen because it takes the things you are learning and applying (normally immediately) each week, and explains the foundations and reasons behind them. <br /> <br />For example I came from kenpo and never had strong grappling skills or a lot of experience in it, so I could accept that I didn't want someone to get double underhooks locked on me, but I had no true understanding of the implications of screwing that up.  Rather than stop the class a dozen times to ask questions, I suggest reading this book first, then asking questions.  Previous reviewers have touted the \\"phases\\" of combat instead of the traditional \\"ranges\\", and I also found that very helpful.  The ranges always seemed a bit too ... neat to me.  Both theories are very helpful and should be learned in my opinion, if only to argue intelligently for/against one. <br /> <br />The writing style of this book was actually quite good as well.  This worried me since the Gracies focus on combat, not English literature, but the co-author is a PHd who managed to NOT throw unecessary Latin phrases around.  Overall it's a smooth and interesting read without grammar/spelling mistakes or illogical jumps in topics.   <br /> <br />One thing that I was very happy to see was a non-arrogant tone.  There is a division nowadays between standup and grappling arts that sometimes gets snippy for no reason, and to be honest it's pretty annoying (since pure grapplers and pure standup fighters BOTH consistently lose to complete fighters).  This book's tone is very objective and when it states an opinion that might raise some ire, like pure standup fighters are flawed, it points to either direct evidence, strong logic, or both.	2005-01-14
US	49116866	R177TD66GOIXFV	0394704681	236128154	The Wisdom of Insecurity	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An amazingly deep little book	I picked this book up in the Taoist section and flipped through, liked what I saw and bought it.  After reading a few pages I checked the publish date and was shocked to see this book was published in 1952!  It sounds like Mr Watts wrote it last week (which is a sad commentary on our society)!  After half a chapter I was 'wowed' enough to wonder who this author was and was shocked again when I saw his credentials (MA in Theology/PHd in Divinity).  This is by no means a Judeo-Christian book.<br />While Mr Watts doesn't specifically mention Taoism, his writing has the flavor of it.  He spends a long time discussing the problems associated with living in the past, then jumping straight to the future without stopping to look around *now*.  He explores the use of language and its shortcomings, but those arguments have become commonplace in undergrad courses everywhere.  The real power of this book for me was the focus on letting go, for example, &quot;...the desire for security and the feeling of insecurity are the same thing.&quot;  He expands on this quite clearly.<br />Reading this book was a strange and fun experience in that I realized that I was thinking of a lot of the same issues that Mr Watts discusses, but was of course 5-20 years behind him on almost all of them.  I also got the feeling that, even though I understood him on some level all the time, I will have to read this book at least twice more to actually *get it*.	2004-02-24
US	49116866	R2I2631N4QK5NW	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Powerful, mesmerizing, comprehensive	As I finished this book this morning over breakfast, I was struck by twin emotions: deep sadness at the loss of Carl Sagan (I remember his passing, it saddened me then); and a profound sense of gratitude that this amazing man put pen to paper, thus leaving us with a small piece of himself.<br />This book is a &quot;de-bunker&quot; as well as a warning.  Sagan calmly leads the reader through a multitude of beliefs that, when examined closely, can not defend themselves at all.  Even more important that evidence (in my opinion), he points out that, unlike science, those who believe in these ideas get ANGRY when questioned.  Science, he points out, rewards the skeptic.  And that is, I think, the crux of this book.  Skepticism.<br />Another well laid-out point Sagan makes is that the US is really shooting itself in the foot by allowing children to become more fluent in consumerism than science and/or literary arts.  This comes back to skepticism; are we teaching it?  Not in my high school we weren't.<br />Overall this book is full of facts and examples to back up whatever point Sagan is making.  The examples pull from Sagan's decades of experience and wealth of knowledge, and give the reader a feeling of what it is like to glimpse the mind of a real life genius who took the time to explain things to us dummies in a way that respected our intelligence like advertisers have never done.  Not once did I catch Sagan trying to trick me to push this or that agenda, and I truly appreciate the intellectual honesty and respect.<br />I have no children, but if I ever do, I will point to Universities as we pass them and tell the little one that what happens in *those* buildings, with all of their problems, their hustle and bustle, their mistakes...that is the only bulwark we as society have against a second Dark Age.  And that comment will be based, to a large degree, on this book.	2004-01-21
US	49116866	R2M17073HFKXSJ	0062513958	366020119	Everyday Tao: Living with Balance and Harmony	Books	5	98	105	N	N	Wonderful book, directly useful, helps you be a better perso	OK, I wasn't going to bother writing a review for this book until I saw the other reviewers complaining about the incorrect entymology of the characters.  Alright so they know more about this subject than I do ... but not one of them managed to address the fact that the author says in the intro that he's using the ANCIENT INTERPRETATIONS!  Of course there will be problems with the modern entymology.  These critics could very well have taken this into consideration but by not mentioning it (one reviewer simply sampled them randomly, thus admitting he never read the book) their criticisms are not particularly helpful.  Not that they would be anyway, which leads into my next point.<br />The quality of the lessons in this should not be overshadowed by technical arguments that have no bearing on the actual discussion.  The entymology was a framework that is (or should be anyway...) easily discarded if one is not interested in it.  I'm active in martial arts and one constant theme I encounter is people &quot;thinking too hard&quot;.  Many times someone will be doing fine until they start getting overly-analytical and then they flop.  I do this myself.  The point here is that if you get stuck on petty details you will miss *so* much.<br />So in summary, this is a great book if you allow it to be.  If you are going to nitpick and argue technicalities then you have missed the whole point of this book, and likely missed the beauty of Taoism in general.	2003-12-31
US	49116866	R3QMEAXKBSJ183	711902163X	833639939	A Taoist Miscellany	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	Bad translation, strange stories, much better books availabl	I don't particularly enjoy giving bad reviews but this book, I'm honestly sorry to say, deserves it.  My first problem was the translation; the author often uses bizarre words that make me wonder if I was missing something.<br />Second, the book manages to bash Confucionism a bit too much for my taste.  Yet while some stories ridicule Confucionism, others seem to imply that it is a valid alternative to Taoism, if only slightly &quot;Confused&quot;.  After a while this got to be a petty distraction.<br />Third, a large proportion of the 111 anecdotes were violent.  They centered on a leaders ability to conquer and many times enslave other Chinese states and their respective peoples.  Furthermore these feats are presented as rewards for the successful application of the Tao.  I understand that the stories here are reprinted from very old texts and that is how people lived then, but this simply is not my definition of &quot;success&quot;, nor is it some goal I would try to bend the Tao towards.<br />Fourth, the stories themselves were quite bizarre, as were the notations at the end given by the compiler.  <BR>An example from page 94:  &quot;All the ancient rulers who believed in preposterous ideas such as living forever were stupid and brutal&quot;.  Hmmm.<BR>Many stories seem to have little or no point, like story #78, which tells the tale of a spirit claiming that death is a much happier existence than life.  The compiler's note says this is pessimistic.  Hmmm.<br />Fifth, the layout of the stories seem to have no pattern or relevance to each other.  It's just a bunch of random anecdotes with odd note at the end.  To make matters worse, many stories have 5 or 6 Chinese names to keep straight, sometimes with 2 characters having the same first name.  This is a little too much for a one-page anecdote as I found myself re-reading several of them 2-3 times solely to keep the unfamiliar names straight.<br />This isn't to say that there was nothing of value in this book.  Not at all.  Stories like #31 and #91 were quite helpful (preventing rather than recovering from negative consequences and the value of kindness in the face of aggression, respectively) but they were too few and far between.  I also leave room for the possibilty that I simply didn't get it while reading a lot of these stories or that the translation garbled the meaning.  Either way though, I can not recommend this book to anyone.<br />Instead I suggest &quot;Everyday Tao: Living with Balance and Harmony&quot;, which has helpful and applicable Taoist philosophy, logically presented and well-written.	2003-12-31
US	49116866	R2ONG6J9CFLNWW	157870281X	999209777	Intrusion Detection with Snort	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Helpful book, Linux-centric	This is a very handy book, if only because it presents a lot of Snort documentation in a friendly, easy-to-read format.  Is every chapter a joyous literary experience?  No.  But it beats reading manpages and after a few hours of reading from my monitor my eyes sting.<br />So the material....  This book introduces Snort, what it is/does, etc, then moves on to how it works.  I really enjoyed chapter 3, which looks into all the preprocessors and a brief desciption of Snort's order of operations and modularity.<br />I would especially recommend chapters 4 and 5 to new Snorters since design issues comprise a huge part of the questions posed to the Snort mailing list, most of which have easy or standard answers.  After that, the installation/configuration chapters demonstrate how to get a running setup using RedHat.  <br />I've read a couple complaints in earlier reviews that these instructions don't work and I must say that it is exceedingly difficult to write an installation procedure that incorporates half a dozen different pieces of software, all of which are under seperate development.  I actually know about this because I maintain the FreeBSD install guide on the snort site and the instructions that work one week are slightly off the next week.  Use the instructions in this book as a guide and you probably won't have much dirty work to figure out on your own.<br />The rest of the book gets into the nitty-gritty of using Snort and I think it does a pretty good job.  This includes tuning signature sets to use less memory/CPU and to generate more reliable alerts.  False positives are the bane of the IDS world. If you're new to Snort/IDS then you'll enjoy learning of several great tools like Swatch and Barnyard that this book explores.<br />Overall I think this book is well worth the 31 clams I coughed up on Amazon.	2003-12-29
US	49116866	RHA7U1ZZ5S8CB	0452266688	981066730	The Portable Curmudgeon (Plume)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Great little book, tons of laughs per page	I'm a little young to know many of the people who are quoted in this book, but the hilarity of the quotes made me look up and start reading authors like George Shaw and Oscar Wilde.  Those two names should give you an indication of the type of quotes you'll be reading in this little gem.  Most are wry, a bit sarcastic, pessimistic and critical.<br />I have no idea what book the previous reviewer was reading when he talked about the author's interpretations of the quotes.  I've had this book for years and went thru it tons of times; there are no interpretations.  It is a bunch of quotes on topics arranged alphabetically with some selected biographies mixed in.  It actually reads quite nicely.<br />Buy this book unless you agree with Oscar Levant...&quot;I have given up reading books; I find it takes my mind off myself&quot;. (pg 34)	2003-12-17
US	49116866	R3C17IWIYW40LX	0963486004	673515583	Stepping out within: A Practical Guide to relationships and transformation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun&amp;easy read, opens up new understanding of self, 4.5 stars	My wife had to read this book for an intro Pyschology class and it (the book) pegged me as a Type-5 (thinker) so thoroughly that she was laughing as she read it.  I just had to read it after skimming the Type-5 section.  This book is a quick and easy read; I read it as my going-to-sleep book and it took about 2.5 weeks.<br />More importantly this book actually answered a lot of questions I've had for a long time.  Why am I constantly pulled toward books, why science and engineering majors are so damn arrogant, etc..  It's also great fun to read about the other 8 personality types because you can often peg someone as an obvious type-X personality.  I have no intention of trying to advise anyone on how to improve themselves based on this book (even a type-5's pretention only goes so far) but the author gave me a lot of ammo to understand and improve myself.<br />As for the author's idea of what self-improvement is...he seems to hold the antiquated idea that one should strive for inner peace and contentment based on a loving life rather than buying a new car/house/chest/more DVDs.  It is quite refreshing to read a book that doesn't once tell you how to do something more *efficiently*.	2003-12-13
US	49116866	R193F829NR7M7L	0471237124	144112552	The Art of Deception: Controlling the Human Element of Security	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Worth reading for infosec professional - a 3.5	As the previous reviewer pointed out, you have to get past the fact that the author of this book has been convicted of a heap of crimes due to his application of the techniques he lays out in this book.  I admittedly was a bit indignant about taking Mitnick's advice at first, but recognized early on that this is judgemental and immature, and this book has good info in it.<br />So basically this book is almost a &quot;must-have&quot; for the infosec professional because ... it's really the only book like it right now.  Most well-rounded infosec books *include* info on social engineering.  This book is *about* it, meaning you finally get an in-depth analysis of the techniques and methods used by social engineers, and suggestions to stop them.<br />Actually my biggest problem with this book is that the author(s) couldn't seem to figure out their target audience.  They wrote a book that filled an infosec niche, then constantly defined terms like &quot;Brute Force&quot;, which everyone reading this book probably figured out at the kindergarten level of infosec.  They do this a lot and overall I found this, coupled with the simplistic writing style, to be a bit condescending.  That's why I say this is a 3.5 and not a true 4.<br />SUMMARY - Good info, more in-depth knowledge of social engineering than anywhere else, dumb writing style.  At least worth borrowing or picking up used like I did.	2003-11-30
US	49116866	R35J2IAK53H00C	0596003234	505260324	Practical Unix & Internet Security, 3rd Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A mile wide, several inches deep, great for filling in gaps	I hate to repeat the cliche, but if you can only buy one security book this year and you are a *nix geek, this should be it, hands down.  As some point out, you can probably find everything in this book online, but then again you can find anything online, so why buy any books at all?  I don't like giving 5 stars; this book left me no choice.<br />The strength of this book lies in several areas.  First, the authors probably have 50+ years experience between them and it shows.  You really get the impression that they've &quot;been there, done that&quot;.  But they don't try and &quot;wow&quot; you with their intelligence and they aren't condescending, in fact they write quite clearly. <br />The &quot;mile wide&quot; crack I made in the title refers to the fact that this book covers everything from physical security and social engineering, to how to setup up integrity checking with tripwire and use PAM.  Basically I found this book to be invaluable because while I could breeze through certain sections, there was a ton of material that I needed more knowledge about, but either never got around to it, or didn't even know I was lacking.  An example is NFS.  I knew I needed more background about NFS because I work in infosec, but every place I've ever worked has banned NFS outright, which makes it a little more difficult to learn....  Another 2 technologies pop into my mind: LDAP and PAM.  I knew what they were, but now I know how to set up the basics and can branch out on my own.<br />In our infosec world it's simply not possible to know everything.  This book gives the reader a solid grounding in a ton of stuff, which enables him to go out and Google around intelligently for more advanced information.  In a pinch it can also be used as an anti-theft device since it weighs in at 900+ pages and is quite heavy.	2003-11-01
US	49116866	R18IRUEPRNXYMI	0387026207	711266386	Beyond Fear: Thinking Sensibly About Security in an Uncertain World.	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An encyclopedia of knowledge, written for non-tech people	&quot;Anyone who tries to entice you with promises of absolute security or safety is pandering to your fears&quot; (pg 277).<br />This whole book is filled with common-sense and not-so-common-sense thinking.  I had the opportunity to see Schneier speak at Toorcon 2003 in San Diego and I can tell you this guy not only knows as much as anyone about security, he also talks *like a normal person*.  He's not arrogant, he doesn't throw in gratuitous latin terms, he just makes a very clear point with extremely strong logic to back it up.  <br />That's what this book is: a handbook on how to logically sift through all the garbage that's trickling down to us via the US media and our govt.  Does the FBI need expanded snooping powers?  Not according to Schneier, who backs that up with facts regarding 9-11 that tell us the right govt agencies *had* the info, they just couldn't analyze it all.  So giving up a bunch of our privacy for the FBI to get more info doesn't make much sense in combating terrorism.<br />This is just one example in dozens.  You may not even agree (I've met a few FBI people and they ALWAYS say they need more power/info), but reading this book allows you to pull the emotion out of security-based decisions, whether they are about home alarm systems or airport security lines.<br />For people who aren't familiar with Schneier, he is basically a semi-legend in the information security field for his cryptography, writing and speaking.  His last book, &quot;Secrets &amp; Lies&quot;, broadened the scope of his writing from crypto to general infosec.  Now he has broadened his focus even further to include the physical world (beyond the server room).  To be honest he doesn't really even bring up computers directly that often, and when he does he usually tells us that they aren't nearly as good at making security decisions as people.  Seasoned infosec people won't be surprised by any of the logic or conclusions in this book, but it's still worth a read because Schneier has obviously spent a lot of his brain's cycles thinking about security in general and we can all benefit from his conclusions.<br />Schneier has won my respect with this book.  It proves that not only does he get the security details (the crypto), he gets the &quot;big picture&quot;, even when the big picture has nothing to do with computing (eg muggings).  It is rare to find this in one company, let alone one person.	2003-10-31
US	49116866	R34D44MP253CPY	0743411463	538304275	The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Ton of historical info and several current security concepts	I loved reading about the mid-80s computing environment.  I've been in infosec (Unix/IDS and networking) for a few years now but the world in which Stoll operated was vastly different than our internet.  However there are several concepts that are huge today in information security that Stoll used/documented 15 years ago.  Examples:<br />1. Diversity in computing.  Stoll mentions at least twice that diversity in computing is a defense for worms and human attacks.  While one can argue that this is not feasible, this idea certainly isn't contentious enough to fire someone over, which is what just happened to security researcher Dan Geer for saying this (don't cross MS).<br />2. Honeypots.  Stoll created fictitious information on his computer to lure the attacker into looking at that info long enough to get a trace.  Not exactly a modern honeypot but pretty close.<br />3. No cooperation between govt branches.  Enough said.<br />4. BAD PASSWORDS.  Most of the attacker's arsenal was plunking away at default accounts with lame passwords.  Fast forward 15 years and think about how far we've come.<br />5. Attackers' ridiculous attempts to justify breaking into someone's systems by claiming they're doing the victim a favor by displaying their security problems.<br />6. Responsible disclosure of bugs and security holes.  Stoll ponders how to do this in the late 80s.  It took until 2003 for most ppl to agree to give vendors about 1-3 months notice before going public.<br />My only complaint was that it gets a little repetative near the end with Stoll calling around and trying to get anyone to help him instead of just leeching info.  But if that was boring for me it must have been much worse for him.  <br />Overall a solid book that allows us &quot;youngsters&quot; (born mid-70s or later) a glimse of the centralized computing world, I'm just sorry it took me so long to read it.	2003-10-13
US	49116866	R1BA0NB2FZ8S74	0071410708	307354898	Installing, Troubleshooting, and Repairing Wireless Networks	Books	2	11	14	N	Y	Too introductory to be really useful	I hate to give this book 2 stars because while reading it I really got the impression that the author was a good guy.  Unfortunately I got that impression because he blabs a lot.  This book is 300 pages long (not including index/appendices) and honestly could have been done in 90 pages.  At first it was nice since I spend so much time reading really difficult books but after awhile I realized that I had read 30 pages and not really gotten anything out of it aside from some anecdotes and a couple tips.<br />The configuration chapters could almost be replaced with the vendors documentation and some common sense.  I say almost because most vendors don't really explain how to set up WEP or the ramifications of SSID broadcasts etcetera.  <br />The security chapter in this book is 9 pages long!  Doing a little math...hmmm, 3% of the book.  Considering the security implications of going wireless this is ... bad.  To be fair he does throw security warnings all throughout the book, but repeating the same general warnings a bunch of times doesn't help.<br />He also manages to complain about the difficulties of Linux/Unix for about 2 straight pages at one point.  He's a Windows guy, fine, I get it.  But it's pretty unprofessional to trashtalk in a book.  It's also a bit worriesome that the guy we are looking to for technical expertise is so obviously frustrated with something that 14 year olds routinely use.<br />So who would I recommend this book to?  Someone who basically knows how to use Windows to check email but not much else.  If you know anything about networking or *nix I wouldn't bother.	2003-10-03
US	49116866	RAL59NRV1YRL2	1565927680	167277565	Securing Windows NT/2000 Servers for the Internet: A Checklist for System Administrators	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good summation of security practices	The author certainly understands windows security from the administrator's point of view.  He isn't going to launch into the deficiencies of Lanman in great detail, but he will tell you how to allow only NTLMv2 instead, or even better...uninstall all of the MS deadly ports altogether (what are they doing on a mail server anyway???)<br />To be honest I'm primarily a Unix person (FreeBSD when possible) so I feel really constricted in the windows environment and thus don't know as much as I should about securing the boxes.  This book allows me to jump into the windows world (since I obviously need at least one windows box around for work) and make intelligent choices regarding configuration.  <br />The small number of pages is actually a good thing since the author skips all of the general security tips and knowledge that you can get in 1,000 other books nowadays, getting right to the meat of it: what to click and type to secure the box.  This also has the pleasant side-affect of reducing the cost from the normal range of 50-60 to around 20, which pretty much means that buying this book is a no-brainer.<br />In summary, a Unix geek can get away with this book since it's so direct and easy to follow.  It requires some previous security knowledge but not a boatload.	2003-09-23
US	49116866	R3H9TGITQDQIKI	0786928271	397437758	The Dragon Isles: Crossroads	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Pretty good &lt;shrug&gt;	This story had a decent plot but nothing special.  Some things were revealed to the characters at the end that I thought would have been obvious along the way but whatever.  The character development was alright too.  I cared somewhat for the main ppl but the only one I truly liked a lot was Shimmer.  The kender was fun too, and it was neat to see a kender at sea.<br />My main beef was the indestructible syndrome that the protagonist party seemed to have.  I'm not saying that none die (and I'm not saying that any *do* either), but they faced overwhelming odds more than a couple times and it just seemed like they survived on a massive dosage of good luck, almost as bad as the 5th age Jean Rabe stuff where the heros take out an entire boat of knights and scrape their shins or something.  Especially since the main antagonist in this book is a massive evil sea dragon.<br />The sea dragon thing was interesting since they were hinted at in the original Dragonlance trilogy (when Tanis gets saved by the sea elves), but that whole storyline went completely unexplored, and instead we got to follow some ppl around on a treasure hunt.  Don't get me wrong, it was interesting to learn about the Dragon Isles of lore, but the sea dragon storyline has *so much* potential.  Hopefully we'll get a Richard Knack or someone to flush that out.<br />Overall I'm not sure that this book is worth the 7 clams I paid, but it was entertaining.  If you see it for 4, I'd grab it, maybe even 5.	2003-09-22
US	49116866	R3I4DINA4O9OU7	0072225785	897653094	Mike Meyers' CISSP(R) Certification Passport	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Pretty solid review material	/* Disclaimer<BR>The CISSP is a *very* tough exam to write a review book for.  It is quite correctly described as &quot;a mile wide and an inch deep&quot;.  Therefore do NOT expect this book to cover everything that you will encounter on the exam, and certainly don't get angry when you take the test and there are things not covered in this book.<BR>*/ <br />So the material ....  I found the chapters to be well laid out and direct.  There was a lot of information crammed into a very small book, which made it ideal for me as a &quot;last week&quot; review.  I took notes on every chapter and picked up quite a few little nuggets of information that I hadn't seen anywhere else.  Of course this was my only &quot;exam&quot; book.  Everything else I used to prepare was actually a book on a given subject (ie Incident Response, Network Intrusion Detection, etc.) so I can't really say how it stacks up against other prep books.<br />So overall it's definitely worth the money since it's cheaper than most tomes, but I regret not using a second &quot;exam&quot; review.  That is not a reflection of this book, but of the massive amount of material on the exam.	2003-09-22
US	49116866	R14QX3KM0RLPYJ	0786918012	719686348	The Summoning (Forgotten Realms:  Return of the Archwizards, Book 1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Great book, cataclysmic event for FR	I really enjoyed this series.  This first book describes how the main character accidently sets an extremely powerful race of evil free and then tries to right his wrong.  I disagree adamantly with a previous reviewer who claims that this series portrays the elves as human sex toys.  There is some interplay there, but unless you have some serious hangups it is a non-issue.<br />The action in this book is great, as is the character development around Galaron.  There isn't as much development of the supporting cast but they are just that, a supporting cast.  What I really liked was the interaction between the humans and elves concerning magic.  I've always been curious about the elvish high magic and them being a part of the weave, yet Mystra's chosen are all humans.  This doesn't explain that but at least we get to see humans and elves interacting in a large, world-changing way, not just in a 5-person band of adventurers or something.<br />The phaerrim (evil race) are awesome too.  They were banished thousands of years ago and can basically think of spells to use them (no chanting, hand movements).  Since they feed off of magic they want Evereska's mythal for their own.  Of course the shadow mage that was released in the beginning along with the phaerrim is just one person in an entire city dating from ancient Netheril.  This sets up a gigantic series of events between three very powerful forces: Evereskan elves+Mystra's Chosen; the Phaerrim; the shadow mages.  Book two really kicks off this war.	2003-04-30
US	49116866	RXOL6E15HJE12	0671041525	895901061	Day of the Dragon (WarCraft, Book 1) (No.1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another great Rickard Knaak book	I was very hesitant to buy a book based on a video game (even a great one), since that seems a little too exploitative for me, but once I saw this author's name on the cover I gave it a shot.  I was very happy with this book.  As usual Knaak weaves a world of wonder where I care about the characters and the action is entertaining.  In case you don't know this guy, he wrote \\"The Legend of Huma\\" among other things.<br />Sorry I can't provide more details, I read this book about a year ago, but I fully plan on reading it again in another year.	2003-04-30
US	49116866	RM6B7SJJKS4CU	0786913541	298000225	Evermeet: Island of Elves (Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not Cunningham's best, still good book	This was one of the first books I read in FR and I didn't understand what the h@ll was going on.  I reread it after two years of reading FR and it made sense.  Not perfect sense but sense.  I personally think Elaine Cunningham is the best active fantasy writer so take this into consideration when reading on.<br />This book details the history of Evermeet from its inception to present day.  Unfortunately the history is co-mingled with the present-day plot to destroy the monarchy of the &quot;gray&quot; elves.  This is setup like &quot;Cormyr&quot; but it isn't as clear as Cormyr in its layout.<br />The plot against the moon elves illustrates something I really liked, which is how Cunningham delves into the elf against elf plots.  Most the time (in other books) elves seem to stick together against the human encroachment, which gives the impression that the elves of Faerun are a cohesive unit - almost what human idealists yearn for (Drows aside).  This book shatters that notion by showing the racial divides within the elves (green/moon/gold) and the petty power-grabbing and intrigue that even elves are capable of.<br />Overall this book helps you understand the history of elves on Faerun and the elvish culture.  While not breath-taking, it is a good solid book.	2003-04-30
US	49116866	RBSWR9MOJY2JA	0786929502	980472752	Dragons of a Vanished Moon (Dragonlance: War of Souls, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good rebirth of Dragonlance	After the brutal butchery that the Dragonlance world suffered starting with the Dragons of a Summer Flame (and continuing quite viciously with Jean Rabe's garbage) this trilogy strove to make Krynn a place worth reading about again and I think it succeeded.  There was so much happening to so many different parties in this book that it kept it exciting, but it never got confusing.  <br />The character development was mediocre; I never really got to care about any of the main characters like I did with the original crew.  When Tanis died I was actually upset.  One main person dies in this one and I coulnd't have cared less.  There were numerous plot holes, most of which have been pointed out previously; my main problem is ... where in the nine hells was Chaos?  This book contains the whole pantheon of gods and Chaos chased them away from Krynn in Summer Flame, yet he didn't even show up in this trilogy.  Stupid.  Weiss and Hickman showed us a lack of respect on that one.  One last criticism is ... ENOUGH TAS!  Please let him freakin' die already, and stay dead!  You spent that nickel already.  I loved him before, now I just want him gone.<br />I have other complaints but overall this book was time and money well spent.  It reintroduces magic to Krynn so we can look forward to wizards and clerics again (why any fantasy writers would clip wizards out of their fantasy world is beyond me).  It leaves a lot of unsolved problems like the elven nations' futures, so hopefully we'll see something by some quality writers like Knaack.  One last gripe is that I wanted to put my foot up Mina's colon the whole book (trilogy really) and I didn't feel satisfied at the end with her fate.  Hopefully they'll jack her in a later novel.	2003-03-08
US	49116866	R8HA2DDL18MUB	0743426908	625556247	Lord of the Clans (Warcraft, Book 2)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great read, too short to buy	I have played Warcraft since 1993 so I had to read this.  If I had recognized the author's name I may not have bought it though since I hated her book \\"Vampire of the Mist\\" (1st book in the Ravenloft series).  However I'm glad I read this since it provided depth and background that was sorely lacking in regards to the orcs.  Instead of stupid savage brutes bent on destruction, Warcraft3 portrayed them as noble and civilized, but there wasn't too much story there (it was only a game though so I'm not complaining).<br />Thrall's character is completely revealed and I actually cared about him.  The antagonist was well done also as I wanted Thrall to kill him, but the author didn't make him a cheesy villian type; rather he was just an abusive SOB alcoholic.  It's too bad these types can't get the sword more often in real life because the author made his character so realistic that I believe she has had experience with these people.<br />Overall the plot was interesting, although it mainly just introduced a portion of the Warcraft world (just like the other two Warcraft books).  The character development was excellent.  The action was great too; it was exciting without the unbelievable heroics of a Jean Rabe character (yuck).<br />My only criticism is that the book weighs in at a palty 278 pages, which I blasted through in about 2.5 days (it's very easy reading).  This to me was not worth the seven bones plus tax that I coughed up for it.  Better to borrow it.	2003-03-08
US	49116866	R7GDSJ8YYXNTB	0735710074	469638174	Solaris 8 Essential Reference	Books	2	2	2	N	N	shallow, occasionally useful	Sometimes I find something useful in this book, but most the time it just sits on my shelf while I look things up online.  I bought this because I wanted to make the transition from Linux user to Solaris user.  In penguin-speak, this author did a --help on a bunch of commands and put them together in hard copy.  <br />If you think 1.5 pages on syslogd is something useful then buy this book.  If you're a newbie then avoid this one completely.	2001-12-19
US	49116866	RO6VTFY8YXZLL	0072131829	673409443	Incident Response: Investigating Computer Crime	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Easily the best incident response work out there	I've been in networking and security for a couple of years now and this book got me fired up like no other book has since TCP/IP Illustrated Vol 1.  In fact, I'd put this book on par with that one in terms of necessary reading.  (You have to read both of them at least twice too).<br />I've read everything in this book except the Windows sections (not prejudice, we just don't run Windows so it's a lower priority; I'll definitely go back and read it) and this book rocks.  An earlier review was a bit critical regarding the fact that the book spends more time on forensics than incident response and he was right.  But I consider that an added bonus since incident response policies MUST include recovery steps.  And recovery step must include: where to look, how to look there, and what to look for.  This book does all 3 very well while explaining things like chains-of-evidence that us tech-monkeys don't normally think about.  <br />What sets this book apart is the fact that they don't say things like &quot;make sure you check for backdoor accounts&quot; then move on.  They say to look for backdoor accounts, then they tell you what tools to use, where to get them, how to use them, and where to look on specific OSs.  I wouldn't trade this knowledge for 100 high-level policies.<br />As a router guy, I was curious to see what they could tell me about router security (Cisco-centric section) and was pleasantly surprised at the insights they brought by looking from an incident response perspective.<br />As a CISSP I know at least a little bit about most security-related threats/software/procedures, but obviously we can always learn more.  This book serves to remind us what a true security bada55 looks like (I refuse to use the word guru).<br />I only hope I can meet these guys at the upcoming SANS conference. (SD-Oct2001)	2001-08-23
US	49116866	R6U5RMTBFT7F5	078690514X	252807435	Daughter of the Drow (Forgotten Realms: Starlight and Shadows, Book 1)	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Finally a complex Drow	Without taking anything away from RA, (without whom I probably wouldn't have heard about the FR world) I would like say how refreshing it is to see a complex drow.  While Drizzt is definitely thoughtful and easy to love, he always does the right thing.  Lireal however, does not reject everything Drow, and this leads to an interesting character mesh.<br />As Lireal is chased out of Menzo, she discovers how many options there truly are in Toril.  She travels with a virtous human warrior and the romance that develops between them is not only free from the moral condescension of Drizzt's love life, but filled with doubt and uncertainty.  By the end of the book I found myself really rooting for the two to get together.<br />The two main characters themselves were great.  I really cared about them.  As mentioned above, Lireal doesn't always do the right thing.  She uses her looks to her advantage, she doesn't reject Lolth, she's not above kicking men in the groin.  <br />On the other hand she isn't evil.  You can follow her internal debates as her Menzo heritage tells her to handle a situation one way, but some inner feeling disagrees.  Overall she comes across as a fun-loving adventure seeker who doesn't know any better.  Fyodor (her traveling buddy) is constantly trying to reform her, but reserves the moral judgements that he could have applied.<br />This book is great.  The characters, their interaction, the alternate Drow gods introduced, this was a fine work by Elaine Cunningham and the next book &quot;Tangled Webs&quot; is a great follow-up so you don't have to worry about being left hanging.	2001-06-24
US	49116866	R2EQNEWH05KA3V	0786905239	422037845	Dragons of Summer Flame (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume 4)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Never should have been written	This book was depressing to read.  Rather than create new characters with which to weave new tales like Elaine Cunningham would, Weiss &amp; Hickman decided to destroy all of our old beloved ones.  At least if Cunningham screws up a book it doesn't destroy the entire series like this book did.<br />This book takes place 20 years after the war of the lance ends and of course the world is chaotic.  But now an all-powerful daddy-god comes to kick some ass on his sons/daughters for imprisoning him.  He unleashes his forces of chaos on Krynn and tries to kill everyone blah blah blah.<br />The way Krynn's inhabitants fight the forces of chaos reminds me of cheesy vampire flicks where the &quot;rules&quot; are made up seemingly at whim by the author and are different all the time.<br />A cameo by Raistlin helps but his role in the plot is silly and inconsequential.<br />It doesn't help that this book leads the DL world into the steamy pile of you-know-what that is the 5th age.  When I finished this book I emailed a friend who loves DL too and told him how shocked I was; not simply with the poor quality of the story, but also with its destruction of Krynn as we know it.  All in all I'd say that you should borrow this book, read it once simply to be able to read any newer books and not be lost, then give it back and wash your hands.	2001-05-27
US	49116866	R1I0Y8340AXU1U	0201634724	978730385	OSPF: Anatomy of an Internet Routing Protocol	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Standards-based explanation of OSPF	I'm biased against proprietary protocols, so understand where I come from when I say that I wouldn't run any other IGP than OSPF.  ISIS has a few strange things but thats not the point here.  <br />This book gives the networking world a great explanation of how OSPF is designed to work as a standard, not how Cisco implements it (which, by the way, I think they do very well).  Not only does Moy explain how OSPF works, but he tells us WHY he decided it should work that way.  He also gives a brief history of the early OSPF vs ISIS conflict and OSPF's development process, including what was wrong with OSPF ver1.  This book helps spare you from scouring the 1000 or so RFC pages that describe OSPF.<br />This book is a little pricey, and probably isn't necessary to get OSPF running (read Doyle), but it will deepen your understanding of the protocol and is written in clear, old-fashioned English.<br />One last thing.  Read Jeff Doyle or some other good material on OSPF first, this book will offer you much more if you already understand the protocol to a certain degree.	2001-04-07
US	49116866	R14SGNOIBBE7T4	1578701813	287309229	Inside Cisco IOS Software Architecture (CCIE Professional Development)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Deepens your understanding	I bought this book and read it cover to cover in about two weeks (which for me is pretty good).  It's definitely not for beginners, in fact it really benefits people who are running BFRs like 7200 and bigger.  Good detail about 7500 and 12000 architectures. <br />It also gave me a lot of little bits of knowledge that made sense but I hadn't thought about before.  Example - if you have a 7206 stacked with fast ethernet cards but your only using half of them, IOS is allocating buffer space to every interface anyway, so pull those cards.<br />Other topics are queuing methods like weighted RED and a very coherent discussion of process/fast/CEF/distributed switching.<br />Pricey book but I thought it was worth it.	2001-04-07
US	49116866	R1G4TAHYX6HSN8	0786915579	432976816	Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Forgotten Realms: the Icewind Dale Trilogy)	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	too many typos!!	This trilogy is excellent!  The plot and character development are fascinating.  The only reason this book did not get 5 stars is because at some points in the book there were 15 obvious typos in 20 pages.  I tried to ignore this but after awhile it just got distracting.  VERY distracting, considering that the stories in all three books pull you into them to the point of submersion in another world.  <br />The editor of this edition did RA Salvatore a grave diservice.  However the books are still great, so buy the paperbacks.	2000-12-05
US	49116866	RP7DLWXIF94GN	0786911905	553503015	Elminster in Myth Drannor	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great spells, a little confusing	Anyone who has played Baldur's Gate 2 can really appreciate the different spells used in the numerous mage battles in this book.  The tactical attack/counterattack approach is much more interesting than the typical &quot;firewall&quot; spells.  <br />The reason I didn't give this book 5 stars is that many times the  author glosses over explanations of scenarios, launching the reader headlong into important situations without you ever having heard the characters' names.  You almost have to skim ahead.  Overall the book is pretty good though, and well worth the read if you like the genre/character.	2000-12-05
US	49116866	R1X9L03TZIRN0G	0786915641	494288220	Dragons of a Fallen Sun (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume I)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	agreed with Ubermensche	I don't want to write an entire review because I'd just restate what Ubermensche said on March 22nd.  I'd just like to emphasize that the end of this  book is extremely unfullfilling.  I finished the book and kind of put it down and thought: &quot;now what?&quot;.  So my advice is to wait until the next one comes out before you read this one, or I guaruntee you'll be left hanging, and not really in a good way.	2000-11-27
US	49116866	R3JD3PXFG475EA	1578701600	670701653	Cisco IOS 12.0 Network Security (Cisco Ios 12.0 Reference Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great reference	This is not a book that you will read end-to-end.  It's got little overview sections before the configuration chapters that explain Kerberos, AAA ....  The true power of the book lies in the handiness of having the information in an easy-to-reference place, rather than the nightmare that is CCO's search engine.  I didn't give it 5 stars because it was not a groundbreaker like Doyle's book, but it is worth the money if you are interested in implementing some of the more complex security features in the 12.x IOSs.	2000-09-21
US	49116866	RI3VG6MDL0TAE	0471253111	52389233	Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Targeted audience	This book is targeted for business people.  As a CISSP, there wasn't much surprising here, but a lot of information that might help cut down on the mythology surrounding security (i.e. firewall=security).  I bought this based on the author's reputation and based on that I'll finish it, but any engineers that are used to reading technical books will find the manner of writing frustrating; non-geeks will appreciate the plain English.<br />To be fair, slashdot gave it a 10.	2000-09-21
US	49116866	R2VIBCF0DJ4ZM2	1928994156	905926281	Hack Proofing Your Network: Internet Tradecraft	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Good start, well rounded	This book was obviously not meant to inspire any crackers, nor to educate  the hardcores.  What it does is bring the rest of us up to speed without us  having to learn the hard way.  While some arrogant hackers/crackers may  think that this book is a sissy-handbook, not all of us care to spend  endless hours of our precious free time trying to reinvent the  wheel.<br />Having said that, this book covers a lot of ground, and balances  the technical details of hacking with the overall picture of what security  truly is: a process.<br />Example-Do you know what a buffer overflow REALLY  is?  I kind of did, but now I know exactly how it works.<br />Example2-Why is  physical security so important?  This is part of the overall process, but  it ties directly into the previous example.<br />My conclusion is that if you  work in the field, you should buy the book.  This goes for the  techie-oriented businessman too, because you'll learn how to cry BS.  Not  everything you'll read in there will be useful to you, but much of it will  be applicable and some things might prevent you from making some really  naive decisions (like trusting patches).	2000-09-07
US	49116866	RHLVAAT3O52AH	1565920988	790112961	PGP: Pretty Good Privacy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Dated but useful nonetheless	This book gives an excellent account of how encryption came into the hands  of non-spooks (and I don't mean Clipper).  But what really matters is the  legacy information on how encryption works.  This information hasn't  changed since.  It also gives the reader a solid base of understanding of  what PGP is doing when you use it. <br /> The book is also quite simple to  read, so much so that I felt guilty for &quot;studying&quot; a book that  was so easy that I could blow through a chapter in twenty minutes. One  final note of importance is that because the book is old (94), it is  UNIX-centric, which is quite refreshing in today's environment of  applications written exclusively for Windoze.	2000-09-07
US	49116866	RL8RJE2RPZA2G	1565921240	494644252	Building Internet Firewalls	Books	1	0	0	N	N	old	Please do yourself a favor and get the second edition of this book that  was printed, I think, in July 2000.	2000-09-07
