US	49111865	R7DSYR17KKJR5	1891686038	565079141	Triggers: 30 Sales Tools you can use to Control the Mind of your Prospect to Motivate, Influence and Persuade.	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Basic Premise: Emotion and not logic clinches a sale.	Most experienced sales people and books will tell you that the sales process is an emotional one and logic plays only a secondary role. The author of this book (Joseph Sugarman) takes this concept to the next level and introduces 30 psychological triggers. These triggers (or sales tools) if used correctly by the seller will influence the buyer's state of mind and dramatically increase the chances of a sale. <br />The author takes these 30 important triggers and devotes a chapter to each and every one of them with clear explanations and examples of why and how these triggers work. Here are just a few sample triggers - Greed, Consistency, Product Name, Prospect Nature, Integrity, Storytelling, Objection Raising and Objection Resolution. <br />There are a few triggers that are very hard to dispute. The best example is the Exclusivity trigger. Almost every one of us falls for this technique if we are in the market for the product and can afford it. Sometimes, even when we are not in the market and can't afford it, we still seem to fall for this one.<br />There are a few triggers where I found it difficult to agree with the author on some of the premises. For example, in the chapter on the Sense of Urgency trigger, he states in so many words that it is okay to use some very bold tactics to create a sense of urgency if it looks like you are going to lose the prospect. The author even hints that you really don't have much to lose so it's okay to use certain tactics that I thought were inflammatory. The problem with this approach is that some individuals will never go back to the salesman or the company that hired the salesman. I think one has to consider the possibility that this could turn into a public relations and marketing problem.<br />But if you take some of the triggers and their explanations with a grain of salt, I think this is a great book overall.<br />After reading this book, I wondered why logic fails so miserably where emotion succeeds so easily in the salesprocess. I think the answer lies in the fact that the buyer has to be an expert in order to correctly apply logic and compare any two products. In most cases though, the buyer is not an expert and hence abandons logic and succumbs to emotional triggers in making a decision. Apparently, even in cases where the buyer is an expert, the chances of abandoning logic in the face of very strong emotional triggers are very high.<br />If you are new to sales, there is a lot you can learn from this book (as I did). If you have a decent amount of experience in sales, this could still be an interesting read. <br />Two things that struck me about the techniques in this book is that it can work beautifully in situations where you are selling products and in situations where there isn't a long term relationship involved. I am really not sure of the effectiveness of the techniques in this book in the services market and plan on experimenting slowly over time. I am also not sure if the techniques work as well in situations where the sales cycles are very long like in high dollar contract (whether it is a product or a service). <br />On a final note, I must say that the book is focussed on helping you close a sale but little attention is paid to the important aspect of negotiation. Anytime you are dealing with a high dollar item and the services market, negotiation becomes an integral part of the sales process. This is a very complex topic that is dependent on various factors including the cultural backgrounds of the individuals and companies involved. Overall, a worthwhile book to read to get an invaluable insight into the 30 psychological triggers. Good luck and enjoy learning from this book!	2004-01-06
US	49111865	R3IU3I7445QC3G	1580622534	472354804	Ultimate Marketing Plan	Books	5	50	51	N	N	13 Steps to the Ultimate Marketing Plan.	There are hundreds of books devoted to explaining the secrets and techniques of Marketing to the novice. What is unique about this book is the common sense explanation to everything that is recommended in the book. If you are new to the world of Marketing, this becomes very important since you can judge for yourself how to implement your Ultimate Marketing Plan.<br />The message that will stay in my mind for a long time is the one on the cover of this book &quot;Find your most promotable competitive edge, turn it into a powerful marketing message, and deliver it to the right prospects&quot;. I wish the book had been split into those sections - finding the strengths in you that you can market, coming up with the right message, and how to find and deliver to the right people. But the 13 step approach the book takes is still great.<br />Just for the record, the 13 steps in this book and their chapter headings are - Putting Together the Right Message, Presenting Your Message, Picking the Right Targets, Proving Your Case, Putting Your Best Foot Forward, Getting Free Advertising, Malibuism - Becoming Hot, &quot;Poor Boy&quot; Marketing Strategies, Maximizing Total Customer Value, Fueling Word-of-Mouth Advertising, Creating Short-Term Sales Surges, New Marketing Technologies, Hiring and Firing the Experts. <br />The first step (chapter) 'Putting Together the Right Message' really got my attention as I started reading about the concept of USP (Unique Selling Proposition) which is nothing but the edge you have over your competition and the reason your clients would buy from you. The author starts out by explaining the power of a great USP and an example USP - &quot;Fresh, hot pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less, guaranteed&quot; (Domino's). He follows it up with different ways to boost the USP power - with an irrestible offer, &quot;Marketing by Values&quot;, etc.<br />Throughout the book, the author throws in 17 Ultimate Secret Weapons and 5 Ultimate Marketing Sins. I plan on memorizing these and refer to the book when I am working on any type of marketing effort. The book is worth buying just for these 22 tips.<br />I found two sections in the book the most memorable - one on testimonials and the other on hiring experts. I have always recognized the importance of getting testimonials but never really done it due to one good reason or another. After reading the author's comments, I will never make this mistake again and not let any reason come in my way of seeking testimonials from all my clients. Regarding the author's commentary on hiring experts, it really impressed me because I have seen several people make this mistake time and again. It brought relief to see someone explain this concept of how to work with experts much better than I have ever been able to explain to my friends and colleagues. <br />Overall, this is a great book on the practice and creation of your Ultimate Marketing Plan. The few bucks you spend on this book pale in comparison to the hours you save by avoiding the obvious mistakes. Do get this book if you own a small business as it is essential for the success of your business. Don't trust this critical aspect of your business to someone else, take control! I wish you the best of luck and I hope you benefit from this book.	2004-01-06
US	49111865	R1TPE34NDCFCTJ	1580622577	319094552	Ultimate Sales Letter 2nd Ed	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Don't send junk mail. Write letters that get read.	This book is most useful to small business owners who want to generate qualified leads and not waste time, money, and energy in sending out useless junk mail.<br />The techniques described by the author in this simple but effective book are easy to learn. The author explains a systematic process in writing the ultimate sales letter that gets read and achieves results. Overall, he describes 28 steps involved in designing, creating, and getting your sales letter to the right prospects. The book is less than 200 pages long and doesn't take more than a couple of hours to read. It does take a lot longer to implement the ideas presented though.<br />Here are a few things I learned in the book that really surprised me - <br />1. That some mail delivery personnel hate junk mail and hence do not deliver it (this is against the law but a small percentage still seemd to indulge in this criminal behavior). There are some good tips on how to minimize the chance of your sales letters being perceived as junk mail.<br />2. The concept of 'comparing apples to oranges' in presenting price to your customer. I have always had reservations about doing this but after reading the explanation in the book, I am no longer opposed to adopting this highly effective practice. The author has a very compelling argument on why this is the right thing to do.<br />3. Mailing a mockup of the sales letter to yourself to see your own gut reaction to your marketing material arriving at your mailbox. This seems the most logical thing to do but I have never done it. From now on, I am always going to mail myself a mockup package before placing an order with my printer. <br />The book is full of these kinds of surprises and hence the reason for the 5 stars in this review. This book is probably one of my top 10 high value purchases of 2003. <br />The most important lesson I learned after reading this book - never underestimate the difficulty of writing a great sales letter and be wary of letting someone elsewrite your letter. If it is your business, there is no one more qualified to write this letter than you. Spend the time and read this book. You won't regret it. After a couple of negative experiences, I now design most of my marketing material myself. <br />Good luck!	2003-12-28
US	49111865	R2CJLLQ725B213	0809247992	981227711	Words That Sell	Books	5	30	33	N	N	&quot;You'll wonder how you ever got along without it&quot;.	When I was looking for a title for this review, the word that came to mind was 'Indispensable' but I felt it was too cliche to use for this purpose. So I opened up the index of this book, looked up 'indispensable', went to page 38 and looked down the list of expressions till I found the title I felt comfortable with!<br />That's how this book is meant to be used. If you are writing copy for any type of advertising or promotional purposes, you will find this 'Thesaurus' style book very handy. This isn't strictly a thesaurus since the words in each section aren't necessarily synonyms but more like related words. If you are new to the world of copy writing, 'copy' generally refers to any type of writing associated with sales material. For example, when  you read an advertisement for a soft drink, the art of writing the ad is called 'copy writing'. <br />You can find other uses for the content in this book as I did above with the title for this review. But in general, most people use this book to come up with writing that is compelling enough for the reader to perform the intended action whatever that action happens to be.<br />The book is split into 6 sections - Grabbers, Descriptions and Benefits, Clinchers, Terms &amp; Offers, Special Strategies, and an Appendix containing miscellaneous sections. There is a 2 page copywriting primer included that has 8 tips to learn before you start writing copy. The Appendix has several miscellaneous topics like 'Categories of Copy', 'Puffspeak - And Its Alternative', 'Wordy Expressions', 'Commonly Misspelled Words', 'Commonly Confused Words', 'Selling Yourself', 'Sample Order Forms', and 'Further Reading'.<br />The book is filled with pages and pages of words and in some cases expressions that are categorized into different headings under each chapter. The largest chapter is Part 2: Descriptions and Benefits, taking up more than half the book. You can go through the table of contents and find the section with the relevant words. You could also go through the index and find a word that seems to fit approximately and then go to that page to read through the related words and expressions till you find the perfect fit.<br />Recently, a follow on book by the same author 'More Words That Sell' has been released. The fundamental difference between the two books is that this book is intended to be used for general purpose copy writing like your basic services and the new book is intended to be used for more specific and detailed copy writing. That's the best way I can describe the differences and this is also corroborated by the author at the beginning of the second book.<br />Overall, I believe this is a valuable resource to have if you are even remotely involved in coming up with 'sales copy' for your company. The low price of the book is well worth the value you get by using this book. Before buying this and other books on copy writing, I used to do a decent job in coming up with the sales copy for my company's services. After reading this book and others like it, I have decided to completely revise the sales copy of my services! I do believe that good copy writing takes practice and these kinds of books are helpful guides in that process. I wish you the best of luck!	2003-11-08
US	49111865	R257LY9JBDV6GR	0735619530	432314231	MCSE Self-Paced Training Kit (Exams 70-290, 70-291, 70-293, 70-294): Microsoft(r) Windows Server(tm) 2003 Core Requirements (Pro-Certification)	Books	5	157	178	N	N	1500 practice questions and 15% off exam fee discounts!	Just the sheer number of practice questions alone makes it worthwhile to buy this set from Microsoft but adding the 15% off exam fee discount voucher makes it really hard to resist buying this set. If you actually take all 4 exams and buy this set from Amazon, your cost is 60% off the list price! But after comparing the number of practice questions from other vendors, I found that it is definitely worth buying this set. <br />Even though these books are intended to train you in the Windows Server 2003 Operating System, I found that it is better to have either 'Windows Server 2003 Administrator's Companion' from Microsoft or 'Mastering Windows Server 2003' from Sybex as a reference guide and use this set mostly for review and exam preparation. After comparing the two reference books, I found the book from Sybex to be better as its coverage is more extensive than the book from Microsoft.<br />The four exams covered in this set are 'Managing and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Environment', 'Implementing, Managing, and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Network Infrastructure', 'Planning and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Network Infrastructure', and 'Planning, Implementing, and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Active Directory Infrastructure'. They are exams 70-290, 70-291, 70-293, and 70-294 respectively.<br />The books are made of very thin paper and are all paperback editions. This makes it easy to carry the individual books around. This is especially important considering that there are 4000 pages in the whole set and imagine what the hardcover editions with heavy paper would feel like! There are 2 CDs that come with the set. One has a 180 day trial version of Windows Server 2003 Enterprise Edition and the other has the 1500 practice exam questions and several good ebooks. All four books are in searchable and printable electronic formats that are supposed to be Pocket PC-ready. The extra ebooks are 'Microsoft Encyclopedia of Security', 'Microsoft Encyclopedia of Networking, Second Edition', and 'Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Sampler'. This last ebook contains excerpts from other Microsoft reference books. But the first two are worth quite a few dollars if you purchase them separately! There are several white papers and miscellaneous software on the second CD-ROM on top of what I already described above.<br />This training kit assumes that the readers have a minimum of 12 to 18 months of administering Windows technologies in a networked environment and an understanding of Active Directory. I am still looking for a good book on Active Directory Infrastructure. <br />Each book has its own unique and specific hardware requirements but to illustrate, they recommend that you have two computers to learn from the 70-290 book. One computer needs to have the server installed with a specific name (Server01) and the domain controller in a specific domain. This may make it difficult to use a work computer for training purposes unless your boss lets you have a dedicated computer or these requirements don't affect what's already on the server. The other computer should ideally have a Windows XP client for the optional hands-on exercises.<br />Each book follows a lesson style format with each chapter having several lessons. Every lesson has an estimated time at the beginning that may not be that accurate depending on your level of experience. Each lesson has several tasks with the concepts and the step by step instructions explained in a easy to understand manner.<br />Beginners may be able to do okay with the 70-290 book but intermediate to advanced users will definitely be more comfortable with the other three books. I am finding the 70-291 and 70-293 the hardest probably due to my background.<br />Overall, I think this set is definitely worth purchasing as I haven't run into any good competing books yet. But the price and the number of questions included make it extremely WORTHWHILE to purchase this set. Not to mention the additional free ebooks that you would have to pay for otherwise! If you are planning on taking the MCSA/MCSE exams, definitely get this set. If you are just trying to learn Windows Server 2003 from this set, I believe that there are better books out there. Good luck with your training and exams!	2003-10-22
US	49111865	RWGL0COEQGOZN	0735619255	904346586	MCAD/MCSD Self-Paced Training Kit: Microsoft (2nd Edition) .NET Core Requirements, Exams 70-305, 70-315, 70-306, 70-316, 70-310, 70-320, and 70-300 box vol. set	Books	5	225	230	N	N	Excellent for training and certification. Discount vouchers.	Three things struck me about this set as soon as I received it and started working through the material. First, these books can be used for both learning and preparing for the certification exams. Second, if you buy the set from Amazon and you intend to take the exams, your cost will be a fraction of the published cost. This is because of the four 15% off exam fee vouchers that are included in the set. In the end, you will get almost 75% off the published price! Be careful when you buy this set as a used set from someone as the vouchers have discount codes that can only be utilized once. Third, these same books can be used whether you are interested in the VB.NET track or VC#.NET track.    This set is best suited for basic and intermediate level users of the .NET technologies. The four books in the set are focused on helping you learn - windows based programming, web based programming, XML web services and server components, and solution architectures. Each book takes a lesson style approach by splitting each chapter into multiple lessons. Each lesson focuses on teaching a unique skill and can be worked through individually. But I found that you need to stay with the sequence of lessons in order to get the maximum benefit.     I am new to taking Microsoft certifications so I was pleasantly surprised when I saw the way the material is presented. Each lesson has an estimated time of completion which I found to be a bit too optimistic but not too far off. The relevant concepts are explained first and these are followed by step by step instructions on how to perform a specific task. Example code related to the task being described is included. At the end of each chapter (not lesson), there is a lab section that contains several exercises for the reader to perform to ensure proper learning. The completed labs are on the CD-ROM that comes with the set. This is very helpful in identifying by comparison anything wrong that you might have done on these exercises.    The CD-ROM that comes with the set has the entire set in electronic form, completed labs, practice files, and exam questions. The set also comes with a DVD that has a 60 day trial version of Visual Studio.NET 2003 Professional. The paper is very thin and these are paperbacks and not hardcover editions. I personally like the thinner paper as it is easier to carry the individual books around.     The prerequisites for using this set are a knowledge of controls & events, SQL, and other basic programming concepts. I think this set is aimed at users that are at a beginner or intermediate level. One advanced user I talked to wasn't as impressed with this set as I was.    The only downside to the set that I found was the intermingling of VB.NET and VC#.NET code throughout the books. I found this very annoying as I am interested in only the VB.NET portions. But I guess this could be a positive if you haven't decided which path to take or are planning on mixing the exams that you take.     The best part about these books is that there are so many practice questions for each exam! After researching other preparatory material online, I found that most vendors are not including that many practice questions. So getting these many questions (550 total in the set) for such a low price made it really worthwhile for me.    I would recommend getting the training guides by Mike Gunderloy (Que Certification series) that I am finding to be the best tools for exam preparation. But it doesn't hurt to get this Microsoft set considering the exam fee discount reduces the price of the set and the number of questions included is great!     Overall, don't hesitate to get this set if you are sure that you are going to take the exams. But use the set as a secondary and not a primary preparation tool. Good luck learning .NET and passing the exams!    Update on 5/5/2005: This review is old so please check with Amazon if the kit still comes with the vouchers before purchasing. I remember seeing an expiration date on those vouchers so it's quite possible they don't include the vouchers with the kit anymore.	2003-10-22
US	49111865	R37O1P61ILLVF1	1578518040	915700597	Harvard Business Review on Marketing	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Collection of the best articles from the HBR magazine.	There are now over 20 books in this Harvard Business Review series. All the books are compilations of the best articles from the Harvard Business Review magazine. This book is one of the best books in the series for the quality, relevance, and usefulness of the articles selected for inclusion.<br />The eight articles selected for this book are 'The Brand Report Card', 'Bringing a Dying Brand Back to Life', 'How to Fight a Price War', 'Contextual Marketing: The Real Business of the Internet', 'The Lure of Global Marketing', 'Are the Strategic Stars Aligned for Your Corporate Brand', 'Torment Your Customers (They'll Love It), and 'Boost Your Marketing ROI with Experimental Design'. <br />My favorite article was the first one 'The Brand Report Card'. This article in just a few pages cuts to the core of how to evaluate the strength of your brand using a very logical approach. <br />The article on Contextual Marketing about the Internet is very interesting since it was written in late 2000 and makes predictions about how the Internet will change by the end of 2003 to 2005. But even the basic predictions haven't come true regarding how ubiquitous the authors predict the Internet will become. Yes, we have access to the Internet through wireless devices but they are not very profitable for businesses right now. Of course, the current economic conditions are influencing the predictions quite significantly. <br />Overall, this is indeed an excellent collection of articles relating to Marketing and the book is priced well since it is far more expensive to buy the same collection of articles directly from Harvard Business Review online (almost 5 times more expensive). <br />I have been reading several books on marketing over the last few years to apply in my small business and this book is one of the best I have read. It is less than 200 pages long and makes for a very quick yet powerful read. Enjoy reading and benefiting from the book!	2003-10-22
US	49111865	RNK2K0GGU4F7Y	0395608449	306276691	Guerrilla Marketing Excellence: The 50 Golden Rules for Small-Business Success	Books	4	6	9	N	N	After reading 'Guerrilla Marketing', follow up with this one	Once you understand what Guerrilla Marketing is all about by reading the bestseller by the same author, this is one of many other books in the series that will benefit you tremendously! To summarize what Guerrilla Marketing is all about - it is for business owners who want to use their time, energy and imagination rather than dollars to achieve their marketing goals.<br />This short 200 page book has 50 rules that small businesses need to follow to succeed. It feels like they are all based on common sense as you read through the rules. The book backs up the rules with good data and solid explanations. That's what sold me on a lot of the rules. I am still not so sure about a few rules but maybe as I start implementing the others, I will realize the value of the others.<br />As an example, here's rule # 17: 'Be sure your timing is on; the right marketing to the right people is only right when the timing is right'. It sounds like common sense and it is but the 10 tips that follow in this chapter on how to implement this rule are very valuable. This is what got me hooked on the rules in this book.<br />The 50 rules are divided into 4 parts - Golden Rules to Guide your Thinking, to Guide your Effectiveness, to Guide your Marketing Materials, and to Guide your Actions. My favorite rule is part 4, it is rule # 41: 'It is wise to aim to be first in line when your prospect buys, but it is more profitable to be second in line'. When I thought of the number of times that my primary choice of product or service was not able to provide good enough quality that I ended up becoming a loyal customer of my second choice is what made me take notice of this rule. In this chapter, 20 tips are shared that help take advantage of this long term strategy that is difficult for most Guerrillas that are strapped for cash.<br />Bottom line - if you have enjoyed some of the other books in this series, you won't be disappointed with this one. Good luck!	2003-10-16
US	49111865	R2F3G065QHJKSX	0471972088	369437705	Requirements Engineering: Processes and Techniques	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Text book approach. Time for another edition.	Since the publication of this book, newer software development methodologies have either hit the marketplace or become more popular including the Rational Unified Process (1999), eXtreme Programming, Scrum, etc. This book needs to be updated to incorporate these newer approaches to software development. The principal drawback of this book is a lack of treatment on how to manage the requirements change during the iterations that are the mainstay of these iterative development methodologies. <br />Even though this book is not aimed at detailing any particular methodology, I believe a newer edition should address this last concern from a general perspective. To prove this point, there are only a few pages that briefly talk about a couple of aspects of the Use Case approach to requirements which is now here to stay.<br />Other than that, this is an excellent book that takes a text book approach to requirements engineering and explains everything you ever wanted to know about this topic from an abstract and general perspective. It also has a lot of practical techniques. <br />For a book dedicated to best practices, you should look at Software Requirements by Karl E. Wiegers. Managing Software Requirements Leffingwell and Widrig is part of the Object Technology Series and does a better job of addressing the Use Case approach and is more recent. Effective Requirements Practices by Ralph R. Young takes a more step by step approach to the whole requirements gathering process and is worthwhile looking into.<br />Now that I have outlined what's missing and what the competitor books on this topic address, back to the book being reviewed. The book is divided into two parts - The Requirements Engineering Process and The Requirements Engineering Techniques. <br />The chapters in the process section are very useful. The first chapter starts off with an FAQ approach to explaining requirements and outlines the basic requirements document and how to write it. The other chapters in thefirst part are Requirements Engineering Processes, Requirements Elicitation and Analysis, Requirements Validation, and Requirements Management. All are very well written and quite thorough. <br />The chapters in the Techniques section are a mixture of excellent and okay topics. I found Chapter 6: Methods for Requirements Engineering to be very interesting as it addresses data-flow modeling, semantic data models, object-oriented approaches, and formal methods (I am directly stating the different sub-sections of this chapter). Chapter 8: Non-functional Requirements is a must-read! Other books haven't done such a good job of addressing this critical topic that seems to get neglected in many a project. The last chapter is a case study.<br />Overall, this is a good book on requirements engineering but in my opinion, you are better off reading this book as part of a classroom course and not as recommended if you are taking a self-taught approach. The other books I mention are better suited for that purpose. Do read Linda Zarate's review on this book as I did not address some things that she does a better job of explaining. <br />It is absolutely critical that requirements engineering be mastered in order to have successful software project and product. Overall, this book is pricey for the value added but worth looking into if it is part of your company's project management library. Good luck!	2003-10-12
US	49111865	R1KORHX3QZNOR9	0060984406	218042172	Your Miracle Brain: Maximize Your Brainpower, Boost Your Memory, Lift Your Mood, Improve Your IQ and Creativity, Prevent and Reverse Mental Aging	Books	5	43	44	N	N	How to take care of your brain with the right foods.	As medical science is discovering the correlation between certain foods on the functioning of various body parts, the effect of food and supplements on the brain is one of the more recent research areas (at least to the general public). This book does an excellent job of explaining the research and the practical implications, especially what to eat to help your brain function the right way. <br />The book is divided into 4 parts - a welcome section, what to eat, brain supplements, and how to stop the destruction of the brain. The first part introduces the reader to the basics of the brain - how free radicals are the prime enemy, how the brain cells can actually regenerate (till recently everyone thought this wasn't possible), how stress can damage your brain, use it or lose it theory, etc. <br />The second part focuses on how fat, fish oil, sugar, antioxidants, and caffeine impact your brain. This is a very detailed section with practical tips on how you can benefit from the latest research in this field. For example - a cup of coffee in the morning and midday is all we need to get the most out of caffeine. Of course, you have to read the whole section to know more about caffeine like the three different sources, etc.<br />The third part is all vitamins, minerals, and other supplements that can boost your brain power. There is excellent information on how Vitamin B6, B12, E, C, and other supplements like Ginkgo and Choline can all help your brain perform better! <br />The last part is about the connection between the heart and the brain. What happens to the heart affects the brain also and there are 30 pages dedicated to this part talking about exactly that! Example - did you know that high triglycerides can disturb your mood? Do you know what triglycerides are? Did you know that high blood pressure harms memory and shrinks the brain? By reading this last part of the book, you can get the latest on these topics!<br />Overall, this book is a worthwhile purchase considering how much you can gain by carefully testing and implementing some of the advice. As with all medical research, I try to test things first and see how these theories apply to my body and then implement on a larger scale. I hope you benefit from this book the way my family has and remember to take it slow before jumping in with a lot of changes at the same time and definitely consult your doctor! Good luck!	2003-10-12
US	49111865	R1OQAZ477S0CTF	0735618798	789325150	Software Requirements 2	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Best Practices in Requirements Engineering. Must-Have.	How do you know if you have good software requirements? Some use the simple technique of checking if the requirements definition is complete, clear, and consistent. Every book on requirements engineering has some variation of this theme and in this book, you are advised to check if the requirements statement is complete, correct, feasible, necessary, prioritized, unambiguous, and verifiable. <br />If you haven't used techniques like this one before, it is definitely a good idea to pick up a solid book like this one on the best practices in requirements engineering. There are several good books in the market on the topic of software requirements and this is one of the best ones out there. <br />I found three other books that complement this one - Requirements Engineering by Kotonya and Sommerville (used more as a textbook), Managing Software Requirements by Leffingwell and Widrig (part of the Object Technology Series), and Effective Requirements Practices by Ralph R. Young (comes with a CD-ROM). <br />If you are a project manager, business analyst or anyone that has a lot to lose because of bad requirements, you will benefit tremendously from this current book being reviewed. The book is divided into three parts - What and Why, Development, and Management of Software Requirements. The part names are self explanatory. This book is very readable and is full of best practices that stand true to their name! <br />The unique things about this book - in chapter 2, the author outlines the Requirements Bill of Rights for Software Customers and the Requirements Bill of Responsibilities for Software Customers. When I first read this, I felt like every customer has to read this before attempting a software project. Chapter 10 has an excellent description of different diagrams useful in requirements documentation - DFD (data flow diagram), ERD (entity-relationship diagram), STD (state transition diagram), dialog map, and class diagrams. I think all books on software requirementsshould ideally have some variation of these topics. <br />Important topics like traceability are given an excellent treatment in this book but the only thing lacking is how to manage requirements in software processes involving iterations (the mainstay of the Rational Unified Process and other newer software development methodologies). There are only 13 pages devoted to this topic and even then it is indirect - Chapter 12: Risk Reduction Through Prototyping. <br />Otherwise, I have no complaints about this book and I believe that it is a basic to intermediate in level (definitely not an advanced book). Overall, I believe it indeed captures the best practices in the field of requirements engineering. It is also a good price, so enjoy!	2003-10-12
US	49111865	R2MJWIJGUBAE74	0130146595	247640077	Death March: The Complete Software Developer's Guide to Surviving 'Mission Impossible' Projects (Yourdon Computing Series)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Perfect in a good economy. Waiting for new advice in 2 Ed.	This book by best-selling author Edward Yourdon is aimed at giving advice to everyone on a software development team on how to survive &quot;Mission Impossible&quot; projects. The underlying assumption behind this book is that in the worse case scenario, you can quit your job and move to another company. This strategy worked during the boom economy of 1997 through mid 2000. <br />But since 2001, it has become increasing difficult to take this stance. I am hoping the author will address these issues as applicable to the current environment where you can be out of a job for a year or two if you don't toe the line drawn by the powers that be. <br />Anyway, keeping this dangerous assumption in mind, this book provides a good insight into why these 'death march' projects happen and what you can do about it. These difficult projects are defined as &quot;a forced march imposed upon relatively innocent victims, the outcome of which is a high casualty rate&quot;. The conditions usually involve one of more of the following - highly compressed schedule, reduced staff, minimal budget, and excessive features. <br />This short book starts off with an introduction to why these bad projects happen in the first place. The topics of politics, negotiations, people in death march projects, processes, tools and technology, and death march as a way of life. These are the various chapters in the book. As you can tell by the title of the last chapter, the author believes that death march projects are really the norm and not the exception so we all need to learn how to handle them. <br />If you don't have much time, the author recommends reading the concept of 'triage' discussed in Chapter 5: Processes and I thoroughly enjoyed reading this chapter before going back to the preface and the rest of the book. There are some very interesting personal notes by the author at the end of each chapter that are really worth reading. Even though the author claims that he is being serious, the book is very humorous throughout. Of course, it is easy to laugh if you are reading this book at a time when you are NOT on a death march project. <br />In chapter 2, five typical political players of a death march project are identified - owner, customer, shareholder, stakeholder, and champion. There is then a discussion of each type. If pressed for time, read pages 52-59. In chapter 3, a few of the familiar games are discussed - doubling and add some, reverse doubling, guess the number I'm thinking of, double dummy spit, spanish inquisition, low bid, gotcha, chinese water torture, smoke and mirrors, and finally hidden variables of maintainability/quality. If pressed for time, read pages 80-85. <br />In chapter 4 about people, on the topic of team building issues, 8 project roles are talked about - chairman, shaper, plant, monitor-evaluator, company worker, team worker, resource investigator, and completer. The 7 practices that lead to 'teamicide' are also addressed - defensive management, bureaucracy, physical separation of team members, fragmentation of people's time, quality reduction of the product, phony deadlines, and clique control. The four stages of team gelling are pointed out - forming, storming, norming, and performing. These four stages are discussed in various other books also. <br />My favorite chapter is on Processes (chapter 5) where the concept of 'triage' is discussed as applied to software development projects. Don't miss this chapter. Chapter 6 is a very short chapter on tools and techniques that most of us may already be familiar and if not, read this chapter as it is a good discussion on how right tools can affect your success positively. I felt the last chapter was more of a philosophical discussion of death march projects being a way of life and what to do about it. <br />Overall, this book is a must-have even if you are a veteran to the software development field. Don't forget to check out 'Rapid Development' by Steve McConnell that is a much heavier treatise on software development and the various success techniques. <br />The author of 'Death March' - Edward Yourdon has a website with his last name as the URL with the latest information on this subject. As I mentioned in the subject line and at the beginning of this review, there is a risk in following this book in this weak economy that could prove especially dangerous for IT professionals ultimately resulting in a spot in the unemployment line. Since it is so close to the publication of the second edition, the author has removed the manuscript chapters on this new release. So I am not really sure if he has a new philosophy for this type of an economy in the upcoming second edition. I would recommend waiting for this second edition. Good luck!	2003-10-11
US	49111865	R11JWAQ951Q4A4	1580621058	362999250	The Independent Consultant's Q & A Book	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Answers to tricky questions. Invaluable resource.	This 300 page book is aimed at communicating ideas that consultants can implement to solve their everyday problems. In 15 chapters, the author follows a Question and Answer format to suggest these everyday solutions. <br />All the way from getting ready to start a consulting business and how to get good clients to charging the right price and getting clients to pay, this book leaves almost no stone unturned. I honestly can't think of anything else the author could have addressed for a book of this nature. <br />I found Chapter 11: Painless Paying, Chapter 13: Financing a Consulting Business, Chapter 7: Charge the Right Price, and Chapter 15: Hanging it Up the most beneficial for my particular situation and experience. My favorite chapter was Chapter 11: Painless Paying that addresses what to do to get your clients to pay. <br />Overall, this is a fantastic purchase for the price. If you are a new consultant don't hesitate and just get the book. Even if you have been a consultant for a few years, you will still find some ideas worth the investment. Good luck!	2003-10-09
US	49111865	R2STVJQSC9EGE4	1580621058	362999250	The Independent Consultant's Q & A Book	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Answers to tricky questions. Invaluable resource.	This 300 page book is aimed at communicating ideas that consultants can implement to solve their everyday problems. In 15 chapters, the author follows a Question and Answer format to suggest these everyday solutions. <br />All the way from getting ready to start a consulting business and how to get good clients to charging the right price and getting clients to pay, this book leaves almost no stone unturned. I honestly can't think of anything else the author could have addressed for a book of this nature. <br />I found Chapter 11: Painless Paying, Chapter 13: Financing a Consulting Business, Chapter 7: Charge the Right Price, and Chapter 15: Hanging it Up the most beneficial for my particular situation and experience. My favorite chapter was Chapter 11: Painless Paying that addresses what to do to get your clients to pay. <br />Overall, this is a fantastic purchase for the price. If you are a new consultant don't hesitate and just get the book. Even if you have been a consultant for a few years, you will still find some ideas worth the investment. Good luck!	2003-10-09
US	49111865	RGK59TNJPA763	1578511828	883786773	Harvard Business Review on Managing High-Tech Industries (Harvard Business Review Paperback Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	8 of the best high-tech reprints from the HBR magazine.	This book is a compilation of some of the best articles on the high-tech industries published in the 1990s. These articles can be read independently and there isn't a thread going through the book other than the fact that they are all related to managing high-tech industries connection.<br />The first article 'Technology Integration' is all about the role of selecting the right technologies in R&amp;D efforts to ensure proper technology integration otherwise, the resulting products could be late in getting to market, hard to manufacture, or do not fulfill the envisioned purpose. This article is based on an ongoing study of R&amp;D in various segments of the global computer industry by the authors. <br />The second article 'When is Virtual Virtuous?' is all about deciding when going virtual can be harmful to success from innovation and when it can be helpful. The authors present a framework to help managers decide when to go virtual, when to form alliances, and when to rely on internal development. This decision was extremely hard for managers during the Internet bubble years and billions of dollars were wasted by Fortune 500 companies that may have not applied a framework like this one.<br />In the third article 'The New Logic of High-Tech R&amp;D', the authors present a compelling argument for why manufacturing shouldn't be outsourced completely and how it is necessary to excel at developing both new products and processes simultaneously.<br />In the fourth article 'Real-World R&amp;D', the authors present a new R&amp;D approach where a system focus and an integration team can incorporate new technologies into existing products and creates a continuity in generations of products saving the company hundreds of millions of dollars.<br />In the fifth article 'How Architecture Wins Technology Wars', the authors put forward a view that proprietary architecture is necessary to competitive success. I am not sure how successful this approach will prove in this era of openstandards. This article was published in 1993. This is the only article in the book I had trouble accepting. <br />In the sixth article 'Increasing Returns and the New World of Business', the authors put forward the concept of 'increasing returns' which is similar to the old philosophy in real life 'the rich get richer and the poor get poorer'. The authors show how there is a tendency for products that are ahead to go on and lock in the market and the products that are behind to lose advantage. There is an interesting discussion of the anti-trust case against Microsoft towards the end of the article.<br />In the seventh article 'Building Effective R&amp;D Capabilities Abroad', the authors put forward ideas on how to take a global approach to R&amp;D. I do not have enough background in this area to make any further comment.<br />In the eighth and last article 'Defining Next-Generation Products', the authors present the results of their valuable research involving 28 next-generation products in 14 leading high-tech companies. These best practices are the best part of this book. These best practices presented revolve around the product definition phase of all these projects. <br />Overall, this is a good book to read just like the other books in this series. I especially recommend that you don't miss reading the last article in the book. Good luck!	2003-10-09
US	49111865	RL1TG6453AI83	0395700132	306575437	The Guerrilla Marketing Handbook	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Perfect coverage except web marketing. Still worthwhile.	This 300+ page large size (8.5 by 11) marketing handbook is a must-have if you have already made the commitment to use Guerrilla marketing methods in your business. Read the author's best selling 'Guerrilla Marketing' for the whole scoop on this type of marketing.<BR> <BR>The book is divided into 7 sections - traditional advertising, mini-media, targeted media, promotion, telephone, non-media, and resources (this last section is the appendix). As I mention in the subject of this review, the only thing missing is a section on web marketing but the Internet was just born at the time of this book's publication. At the very beginning of the book, a few pages are devoted to explaining a seven step process to come up with a marketing plan. This simple process is good enough for most small businesses. <br />Marketing plan in hand, you are ready to start with the rest of the book. The information is very clear, makes sense, and easy to implement. Here's an example of what you can expect to find on any given page of the book - in the traditional advertising section, there is a sub-section on tips for ads in newspapers and magazines. It starts out with the golden rule of repetition and addresses the topic of designing the ad, the best days to run the ad, 13 tips for doing a successful ad, and headline tips! The sub-section then moves on to magazine ads. <br />The only downside to this book is the lack of a section addressing the world of the Internet. At the time of publication, the Internet was just being formed so we can't blame the book. I am hoping that the author will release an updated version with at least a third of the book dedicated to websites and web marketing. <br />With small business budgets, we are stuck doing some of these crucial business activities ourselves. This handbook just like the other books in the Guerrilla Marketing series by the author is extremely useful and carries a small business price! As always, successful Guerrilla marketing is a lot of work and requires a lot of thought. So don't wait - just get started! Good luck with your Guerrilla marketing campaigns!	2003-10-08
US	49111865	R1ZYNBM50FJLD8	073520179X	983169180	Marketing Professional Services - Revised	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Must-have for professionals wanting to understand marketing.	This book is all about marketing for professionals - lawyers, doctors, accountants, management consultants, etc. It takes a textbook approach to this specialized area of marketing professional services but does so in a fast and effective fashion. <br />The book starts out by defining marketing and quoting Peter Drucker 'The aim of marketing is to make selling superfluous'. Every professional loves to hear that as we all hate selling. The Seven Ps of Marketing are then explained - Product, Price, Place, Promotion, Physical Evidence, Processes, and People. The fundamental way services differ from products is then outlined - intangibility, inseparability, variability, and perishability along with satisfaction criteria being different and the effect of customer participation.<br />Ten distinctive problems in marketing professional services are also described - third party accountability, client uncertainty, experience, limited differentiability, quality control, doers as sellers, time allocated to marketing, pressure to react, conflicting views about advertising, and a limited marketing knowledge base. <br />The rest of the book builds on this foundation. This is one of the most useful and readable books I have encountered on the subject of marketing. It has the perfect combination of theory, practice, and actionable steps that you can find in any book specializing on marketing professional services. <br />So if you are one of the targeted audiences don't hesitate and just get the book. You will not regret it and at the very least, it will give you a deep understanding of where you can improve in your business. You may feel the book is a bit pricey but the value makes it worthwhile. Good luck!	2003-10-08
US	49111865	R305O4YB7OOTKJ	0395908752	287727508	Mastering Guerrilla Marketing: 100 Profit-Producing Insights That You Can Take to the Bank	Books	4	3	3	N	N	100 recipes cover every step of guerrilla marketing.	Guerrilla Marketing involves using your time, energy, and imagination to fuel your marketing campaigns. If you have already been exposed to the basic concepts of Guerrilla Marketing (see book of this name by the same author), you are ready for mastering this powerful technique. <br />The best way I can explain what's in the book is to say that this 250 page book breaks down the Guerrilla Marketing process into 100 small steps or components. Each step has a particular insight (the insight is always in italics) that is the central focus and the author spends 2 pages explaining this insight. <br />For example - insight # 25 is about telemarketing. The author explains that 20% of any sales organization brings in 80% of the sales and suggests that the rest of the organization could benefit by using the scripts from these highly successful group of people. Six ways to make a telemarketing call successful are outlined along with the telemarketing strategy that guerrilla marketers can follow.<br />Although these insights are not that deep and the material surrounding the insights not that revolutionary, almost everything in this book has been known to work if implemented correctly. This book is best used in conjunction with the other books in the Guerrilla Marketing series. As with the other books in this best selling series, the price is so low that you can't lose buying this book. <br />The only downside to this book is its weak coverage of Guerrilla Marketing insights relating to the Internet. Of the several books I own by the same author, I see the same trend in all of them. Since most of these books were written before the Internet took off, any coverage seems more like an afterthought and not really integrated with the rest of the material. Other than that, I can sincerely say that this book provides great value for the price. Good luck with your Guerrilla Marketing plans!	2003-10-08
US	49111865	RPX2UGXO0UA0R	1580626823	810348292	Guerrilla Publicity: Hundreds of Sure-Fire Tactics to Get Maximum Sales for Minimum Dollars	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Publicity is a great tool for Guerrilla Marketers. Read on.	The whole Guerrilla Marketing paradigm is based on using non-financial resources to do your marketing especially when you are strapped for cash as a small business. Read 'Guerrilla Marketing' by this author before reading this book on publicity as it is a precursor to any of the books in this best selling series.<br />Since the Guerrilla Marketing plans are all based on a lot of imagination, intellect, and effort, Guerrilla Publicity is probably one of the best tools to use (it's free!). Publicity is defined by the author as 'the art of building favorable interest in your product or service. It's creating a buzz, an identity, name recognition, and getting your message across. Publicity is a part of public relations'. <br />The hundreds of publicity ideas are summarized in about thirty three 2-3 page chapters that pull together related ideas. As with all of this author's books, this book is very easy to understand and implement. The only complaint I have is that the sections on Internet related publicity are a little weak. Even though there is no perfect book on the subject of Internet publicity, there are better books out there than this one. But even so, the Internet related sections are very good, just not at the same level as the rest of the book. <br />Publicity as a marketing tool is probably one of the hardest things for a small business to master as most small businesses are formed out of technical competence before being forced to learn all the other skills needed for a successful business - marketing, sales, management, etc. After reading this book, I became even more committed to mastering the art and science of publicity as a marketing tool. No small business can avoid this tool on the path to success. <br />Go ahead and invest in this inexpensive book. You won't regret it. Good luck!	2003-10-07
US	49111865	R1X9AWAQYVJ88J	0785274316	890160557	The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership: Follow Them and People Will Follow You	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Some of the best leadership principles in 21 laws.	The fundamental premise behind the 21 irrefutable laws in this book is that leadership skills can be learned. These laws and the premise are based on the 30+ years of leadership experience of the author and several great leaders that we all recognize and several others that ought to be recognized by all.<br />The book is divided into 21 chapters with each chapter focused on explaining one of the 21 irrefutable laws. The author takes the approach of using real life stories to prove each law. The author has a writing style that gets the reader engrossed in the book no matter where you open the book and start reading it. <br />These real life stories are woven together very smoothly and explain each law without leaving any doubts in the minds of the readers about why the law is irrefutable. In each chapter, there are several of the author's proverbs and interesting observations enclosed in little boxes. For example, one that we would all accept - \\"The only thing a title can buy is a little time - either to increase your level of influence with others or to erase it\\". Another that was an interesting fact - \\"By the end of his military service, Abraham Lincoln found his rightful place, having achieved the rank of private\\". <br />There are several great leadership books in the market and this is one of the best. Read it, absorb it, and apply it to see the results for yourself and judge the power of this book.<br />Good luck!	2003-10-07
US	49111865	R8EA6DBI7PPC7	0786303158	370812218	Solution Selling: Creating Buyers in Difficult Selling Markets	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Responsible for selling services? This book is a MUST!	What will you get out of this book? You will learn to make the process of selling a very formidable strategic and competitive advantage on top of all the other advantages you may already have (technical competence, etc.). This possibility alone immediately convinced me to get this book without a moment's hesitation.<br />First of all, let me say that this book is aimed at showing you more than just selling services. It is aimed at teaching you how to sell anything (services or products) that is difficult to sell - intangible, hard to describe, or expensive. <br />I am most familiar with selling services so I will restrict this review to this one aspect of the book. If you are in consulting, you have already experienced the deleterious effects of a bad sale several times in your career. <br />But if you are the salesperson responsible for selling these services, you really don't see any way out of the most common situations that lead to the bad sales! I have been both a sales person trying to sell and the project manager trying to implement these badly sold projects. Before reading this book, I strongly felt that there was no solution (no pun intended). One of my really good friends recommended this book after hearing my complaints. I started reading it a bit at a time and it has taken me several months to put this theory into practice. And I am still learning (nowhere close to sales excellence). But there is finally some light at the end of the tunnel for anyone stuck in a similar situation because of what's in this book.<br />The book is divided into three parts - 10 Faces of Pain, Strategies to facilitate, influence, and control the buying process, and Solution selling in action. Through out the book, the author uses several realistic examples in a dialogue fashion to clearly show the problem at hand. The first part sets the stage so that you are ready for the solution, the second part outlines and describes in detail 10 different strategies, and the last part isfull of success stories of people or companies that used these strategies to eliminate their selling pain.<br />If you are having trouble selling something, do not hesitate to get this book. I have not regretted this purchase even once! My only recommendation is to spend a lot of time understanding every aspect of the solution selling process so you can master it. Good luck!	2003-10-07
US	49111865	RIN2LGTW0562Q	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	2	6	N	N	International story type bestseller on dealing with change.	This is a very short book of 94 pages in large print estimated to take about an hour to read. It is the story of 4 mice in a 'maze' looking for 'cheese'. Two of the mice are Sniff and Scurry and the other two are Hem and Haw. When the 'cheese' that they were all used to finding in a familiar place in the 'maze' gets moved one day, they all react differently. <br />This book is the story of what happens next. The purpose of the story is to really illustrate a simple philosophy in life of how to be happy. The 'cheese' is whatever each of us seeks in life. The 'maze' is where we look for it (work, home, etc.). We all can generally identify with one of the four mice in the story. <br />I won't spoil the book for you by writing any more but I will say that this book is definitely very interesting and the facts revealed are very applicable in real life. This is such a famous book by now that you will likely encounter it somewhere even if you don't go looking for this book. I was given this book by someone or the other at least 3 times in the last 2 years. <br />I thought this book was a bit pricey but in spite of the price, it is an international bestseller being sold in several languages! Corporations especially love this book as it convinces the reader to learn to adapt to change and in fact, learn to seek and enjoy change! One has to be careful not to take this to an extreme as the most successful companies are built on a philosophy of core values that DON'T change (read 'Built to Last' to find the proof for this argument). <br />Overall, this book is a very enjoyable read. The writing style of this author is so good that it is indeed difficult to put the book down once you pick it up. He is a famous author with several other best selling books to his credit. Check them all out! Have fun!	2003-10-07
US	49111865	RMAZHHL87Z9UK	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Master art of manipulation - based on 3000 years of history.	For just a few dollars, a lot of time and practice, almost anyone can now learn to manipulate the world around them and gain power. All you have to do is acquire this book, read it and apply the 48 laws over and over again till you start seeing results. It is a small price to pay in terms of time, effort, and money but a big price in terms of morality, ethics, and values. <br />If power is what you want and nothing else - look no further, get this book and put it to use. This book is based on historical research going back 3000 years! The author deserves tremendous respect and applause for such a monumental work. <br />I used to be concerned about the clear lack of fairness and justice in the world but after reading this book, I just shut up. It is obvious from 3000 years of historical information that the easiest route to gaining power is through that of manipulation. The operative word here is 'easiest'. There are other routes that could achieve a fraction of the results at a much great effort. If one wants to pay the high moral price, the methods are clear and documented. If not, there is no reason to waste energy complaining that life is not fair. <br />The only caveat to reading this book is that the alternative to power through manipulation is quite fulfilling. Though you may not have as much power as you think you deserve, you will be happy and have some of your higher emotional, spiritual, and social needs satisfied. So it comes down to a choice and only you can make that choice based on your individual situation. <br />To be fair, not all of the laws involve sacrificing your personal values, ethics, and morality. For example, Law 9 says 'Win through your actions, never through argument'. This makes sense and is the same as the old proverb 'actions speak louder than words'. No great danger in following this law. <br />There are hundreds of actual quotations by very famous and infamous people spanning the past 3000 years throughout the book. The 400+ page book has a very nice and readable format with the quotations on the side of each page in red. If you wanted to just read the quotes, you could open any page and read the notes on the side written in red. <br />So explore this powerful journey of a book at your own risk! Good luck!	2003-10-06
US	49111865	R8PLA31RN1C5N	087477845X	16914221	Getting Business To Come to You	Books	4	46	47	N	N	Filled with PRACTICAL advice. Invaluable desktop reference.	For just a few dollars, you get hundreds of pages (almost 700) filled with valuable advice, tips, and information on how to do your own marketing. This is a comprehensive guide that is a must-have for small business owners. With minor exceptions, the material in this book isn't likely to change that much over time. I can't comment on the book's usefulness to big businesses.<br />The book is divided into 4 parts and 13 chapters - the first part deals with getting ready to be in demand and sought after, the second part is about creating a winning marketing message, the third part helps you choose tailor made marketing methods, and the last part is about growing big. My only wish is that there was a fifth part dedicated to using the web for marketing your business (this is addressed throughout the book but not in sufficient detail as this book was published in 1998). <br />The hundreds of tips and information are explained in a clear and a simple fashion that easily lead to actionable tasks. That's the best part about the book on top of the flow of topics. Considering how much material is packed into this book, it will take a long time to cover everything - probably a few months to a year. I have had this book for over a year and still not finished it. There are also lots of references to other helpful sources of related information.<br />If you own a small business, don't hesitate and just get this book. It will be one of the most valuable purchases, I am sure of it. Good luck with your endeavors!	2003-10-06
US	49111865	R1CUQM4LRUSQXE	0793159717	333711633	Market Planning Guide	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Workbook style marketing planning guide. Excellent.	This is a large cover book (8.5 by 11) of 240 pages filled with exercises in workbook style. Having purchased several really good marketing books, I had learned the theory and practice but in coming up with my own marketing plan I lacked a workbook. This book filled the void.<br />The book has 12 chapters and four sections in the Appendix. The best part about the book is that in each chapter, the authors clearly explain the high-level theory and provide the exercises to help you come up with the answers right for your situation. These exercise take the form of sections in each chapter headed by a question. Overall, there are 30 sections (or questions) in the book. This is a good approach as any workbook needs questions to stimulate your thinking and be an effective workbook. <br />The topics are well chosen - products and services, customers and prospects, competitive analysis, price setting, advertising and promotion, etc. One of my personal favorite chapters was on price setting which isn't dealt with in great detail in a lot of books. I am currently following this simple approach in setting the prices for the various services offered in my small business. <br />Why only 4 stars? There isn't enough coverage of the website component of a business. But for the very low price of this book, you can't go wrong in buying this excellent marketing workbook. Enjoy!	2003-10-06
US	49111865	R1NJS847500NR5	0968480438	408536314	Best Ceos: How the Wild, Wild Web Was Won	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Inspirational. Excellent for in-flight reading.	In less than 200 pages (in large print and extra line spacing), the author spends a few pages on each CEO giving a glimpse into the lives and companies of some of the more well known and famous CEOs. The 11 legendary CEOs are Jeff Bezos of Amazon, John Chambers of Cisco, Scott McNealy of Sun, Stephen Case of AOL, Craig Barrett of Intel, Timothy Koogle of Yahoo, Steven Jobs of Apple, Margaret Whitman of eBay, Steven Ballmer of Microsoft, Louis V. Gerstner of IBM, and Lawrence Ellison of Oracle. Interestingly, I didn't see Bill Gates on the list. <br />I have thoroughly enjoyed reading about these CEOs that I had already heard so much about (as most of us in the Internet companies would have). Obviously, a few pages on each CEO can't do justice to these living legends. Knowing this upfront, this book makes for a very enjoyable read on a 2 hour flight when you are on business by yourself. <br />Pros - you get a glimpse of some very famous CEOs, inspirational, large print, extra line spacing, and short book.<br />Cons - doesn't provide any remarkable insights, not up to date (this was based on 1998-2000), and a bit pricey for the value added.<br />There are a few pages devoted to the author's opinion on the Internet era. These are good opinions but nothing revolutionary. Overall, I would say this is a good book to read preferably when you are bored and need some entertainment/inspiration. Enjoy!	2003-10-06
US	49111865	R8CUC7G2YVSB7	0321115627	532989911	Adobe Photoshop 7.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	5	83	86	N	N	Fastest way to ramp up on Photoshop 7.0 - Tutorial Style!	This book is really like being in a classroom only better because you can stop and start anytime you want. The purpose of the book is to teach you how to use Photoshop 7.0 for the graphics portion of your website design (both Mac and Windows) using a tutorial style approach. There are 18 lessons with all lesson files included in the CD that comes with the book. These lessons range from the very basic topics like the Photoshop Work Area and Basic Photo Corrections to the very advanced topics like Interactive Slices and Rollovers (advanced at least for the beginner). I am not an advanced user so I am mostly speaking from a beginner perspective. <br />Each lesson is very easy to follow and even though all the lessons are in black and white, it doesn't matter if you are following along on your computer as you read the instructions (since we all have color monitors). At the end of each lesson, there is a review question and answer section. This was a refreshing change for me to see a book actually give the answers to the review questions. Most other books I have seen just have the review questions or exercises and don't bother to explain the answers. There are about 15 pages at the end of Lesson 1 in full color and cover all 18 lessons. I don't quite follow the logic for doing it this way but it didn't interfere with my learning. <br />Each chapter will probably take a couple of hours to work through if you are a beginner but you will likely become an Intermediate level user if you work through all the lessons. A very unique book and definitely worth buying if you want to learn how to use Photoshop 7.0 for your graphics design. I was so impressed that I went and bought other books from this Classroom in a Book series. But I must say that this one is still the best book in the series. Enjoy this creative endeavor!	2003-10-05
US	49111865	R1YV4E3BIBGIWZ	0395906253	298029159	Guerrilla Marketing: Secrets for Making Big Profits from Your Small Business	Books	5	60	62	N	N	A must for Small Business owners and marketers.	With thousands of books written on marketing and its implementation for all business sizes, this book has created a unique brand name for itself with a series of books all aimed at a particular type of marketing - Guerrilla Marketing. As its name implies, these books are aimed at achieving significant results through non-traditional marketing avenues that have now become fairly established and are probably not Guerrilla tactics anymore (in the strictest sense of the word). <br />This book though originally written in the 1980s has been updated in late 1990s and the update has been driven by the feedback received over 15 years. If you are a small business owner or someone responsible for the marketing division of a small business, you may not have that much money available to run your marketing campaigns professionally and using more traditional channels. Therein lies the appeal to this book that assumes that your only resources are time, energy, and imagination. <br />The book is split into 5 sections - the first section is an introduction to the whole Guerrilla Marketing process all the way from its definition to the thirteen most important marketing secrets and how to develop a Guerrilla Marketing plan. <br />The second section focuses on mini-media marketing which is nothing but the various marketing approaches you can use - canvassing, personal letters, telemarketing (don't be discouraged as the author explains how to do this right and not annoy people), brochures, etc. <br />The third section is about maxi-media marketing which means all the marketing techniques that cost money. But the author has a compelling argument that it is worthwhile if you can benefit from it financially. Newspapers, magazine advertising, radio, television, etc. are addressed one after the other with detailed explanations of what to do and what not to do. <br />The fourth section is nonmedia marketing - free seminars, trade shows, etc. and follows a similar approach of what to do and what to avoid. The author also recommends combining these three types of marketing in a fashion that works for your particular situation. <br />The final section is on actually launching your Guerrilla Marketing attack and how to win! <br />Even large organizations have listened to the author and have started experimenting and successfully implementing Guerrilla Marketing strategies. <br />A marvelous book that convinced me to get a few of the other books in the series with interesting titles like 'Guerrilla P.R. WIRED' that addresses online Guerrilla marketing along with the offline approach. I have several types of marketing books and this set comprises the biggest chunk. I have been experimenting and understanding the various techniques over several months now. Being a small business owner, I like this approach better than most of the others. Bottom line - if you are responsible for marketing your small business goods or services, I recommend at least looking through this book. Good luck!	2003-10-05
US	49111865	R1VCMEO0KL5XZA	0060007737	16865120	The 22 Immutable Laws of Branding	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Includes an additional 11 laws for Internet branding.	This book was recommended to me by my business coach and I have not regretted the purchase ever. At first, I was a little concerned with the strange looking cover with the difficult to read font and the bright colors. My concern was that if they know so much about branding, why this kind of a cover. <br />But my concerns end with the cover as everything in between was very well laid out, backed by common sense and facts based on real companies. There are several examples used on every page to explain the total of 33 immutable laws (22 regular and 11 internet). We all intuitively understand branding because we are consumers and hence experience on a daily basis our purchasing being swayed by branding. So it was very nice to be able to read this perfect book on branding and understand so much in such a short time. It won't take more than a few hours to read this book cover to cover. <br />Let me share an example law without spoiling the book for you - #4 Internet Law: The Law of the Proper Name explains how proper names are better than common names for Internet branding. The clear proof of this is in the common names that never took off - drugs.com, university.com, wine.com, telephone.com, etc. and the proper names that did take off - priceline.com, amazon.com, etc. And I really like the explanation for why this law works. <br />So if you are a small business owner who can influence the branding of your business, products and services - go ahead and buy a copy of this book as you won't regret it. Of course, the content of this book is not restricted to small businesses. I am sure almost anyone involved in the branding efforts of the companies they work for will find it useful.<br />Good luck!	2003-10-05
US	49111865	R2M92549TGQKXJ	1572316217	122701547	Software Project Survival Guide (Developer Best Practices)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Easy read - for newcomers to the software project field.	Steve McConnell is better known for his two bestsellers - Rapid Development and Code Complete. While those two books are more detailed, this book has the necessary preliminary coverage of what it takes to make a software project succeed. It's a very easy book to read and can probably be read in a matter of a few hours. <br />Steve assumes that the intended audience belongs to one of three groups of people - first group consists of 'top managers, executives, clients, investors, and end-user representatives', the second group consists of 'project managers', and the third group consists of 'technical leaders, professional developers, and self-taught programmers'. Or as he puts it 'anyone who has a stake in the software project's outcome'. But mostly he is assuming that you may not be exposed to many successful software project techniques and looking to rapidly get up to speed on a simple technique like the one outlined in this book. <br />The book addresses projects that have team sizes between 3 and 25 and schedules of 3 to 18 months. The plan is supposed to work for various types of software systems like client-server or scientific but I didn't see web design projects mentioned explicitly. It could be because of the time this book was published. I plan on trying the techniques on a couple of non-critical web design projects and analyze the outcome. <br />The book is 19 chapters, 250 pages and 4 sections. The four main sections are The Survival Mind-Set, Survival Preparations, Succeeding by Stages, and Mission Accomplished. The book starts out with a short welcome chapter on software project survival training and followed by another short chapter on assessing the state of your own project from a survival perspective (you take a test and get a score that indicates where your project is). The next three chapters focus on the survival concepts, survival skills, and the profile of a successful project. The book then goes into the core of how to make a software project succeed. <br />This book is no substitute for the author's other book 'Rapid Development' though it is probably a good start if you aren't willing to cover the much larger book (other 600+ pages). Considering how few books have been written on software projects (that are not an exposition of SEI's CMM or the Rational Unified Process), I think this is a worthwhile book to read. At the bare minimum, it doesn't hurt to skim through the various topics and take away a good technique or two that you can immediately apply to your own software project. Good luck!	2003-10-05
US	49111865	R2UI6HNFMIJ2W5	0201756242	983470320	Adobe Illustrator 10 Classroom in a Book	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Tutorial style book for creating illustrations, artwork, etc	After first determining why I needed Illustrator when I already had Photoshop, I picked up this book because of my positive experience with another book from this Classroom in a Book series (Photoshop 7.0). And this book does not disappoint in the least bit either. <br />It follows a tutorial style approach to teaching how to use Illustrator (both Mac and Windows versions). The book is mostly black and white with all the relevant color pictures tucked between lesson 12 and 13. It hasn't caused me any problems as I follow along on the computer as I read the book (I have a color monitor). <br />In 15 lessons, this book does an excellent job of teaching you how to use Illustrator 10 without having to be in a classroom. All lesson files are on the CD-ROM that comes with the book. The book starts off with explaining how to use the Work Area and builds from the basic to the more complex topics. The basic topics of creating shapes, painting, drawing, working with brushes are followed by the more difficult topics of transforming objects, working with type, blending shapes and colors, etc.<br />Even though the two programs Photoshop and Illustrator are coming closer with each new version, the main differences between them are to do with whether you want to start with an existing photo and modify it for print &amp; web or you want to start from scratch and create illustrations and artwork for print &amp; web. I am oversimplifying here but this explanation helps me keep the differences between these two programs straight in my head. <br />The technological differences are that Photoshop uses bitmaps to represent images and Illustrator uses vectors (and complex mathematical equations) to represent the images. Of course, you don't need to bother with this part as it is irrelevant to using the tools effectively. <br />I use both Photoshop and Illustrator for basic web design but mostly stay with Photoshop. The reason for this is that I am a photographer and have never been good at artwork so I use Illustrator mostly as a hobby to improve my creativity in this area. It has been a lot of fun for me and I hope the same for you! Have fun learning to use this amazing and cool tool! And don't forget to check out Adobe's website for their latest release of Adobe CS (Creative Suite) that includes the next version of Illustrator after Illustrator 10.	2003-10-05
US	49111865	R13XV1WW0MM53J	0596001967	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent introduction but it is time for the next edition.	If you are a beginner putting together your website or even an intermediate web designer, this book is a must-have desk reference. If you are an advanced user, you can probably still benefit from this excellent book on web design.<br />This second edition has been out for over two years and probably due for an overhaul. A few additions are needed to make this book today's definitive desk reference for Web Design (as it was at the time of original release). <br />What's missing in this edition? Coverage of the .NET framework and related language like ASP.NET and VB.NET, ActionScript from Flash MX, PHP and MySQL would be very nice. With the explosion of so many handhelds to the technology market, it may be time for a section on the web design principles as applicable to this unique sector. Recently, there has also been a lot of focus in the areas of search engine optimization and marketing principles applied to web design. It would be good to see a couple of chapters on this subject too.<br />Other than what is mentioned above, this book covers almost everything you can imagine in the web design world - 32 chapters ranging from accessibility to internationalization and cascading style sheets to JavaScript. I benefited tremendously when I first bought this book two years ago and still refer to it once in a while.<br />Overall, this is currently one of the best books on the market to quickly ramp up on web design (till the next edition comes out). Good luck!	2003-10-02
US	49111865	R3U1T9WO755RR7	0735613672	626466212	Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Administrator's Companion (IT-Administrator's Companion)	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Worthwhile desk reference. No coverage of the Web Edition.	This 40 chapter 1500 page Administrator's Companion is aptly named as you will refer to it extensively over time. Out of the 5 different versions of Windows Server 2003, the book covers the Standard Edition and the Enterprise Edition extensively. The Datacenter Edition is very similar to the Enterprise Edition so this book could suffice. The Web Edition is significantly different and is NOT covered in this book. <br />The Small Business Server is kind of the fifth and unofficial version of Windows Server 2003 and I am not very familiar with this Edition yet. This last version is not explicitly covered in the book but it is possible that it is actually only a slight variation of one of the other four versions. I am not familiar enough with this last version to make any other comments.<br />Windows Server 2003 is not as much of a jump from Windows 2000 as Windows 2000 was from Windows NT. This is good news for those familiar with Windows 2000 and hence can start using this book as a desk reference immediately. If you are new to the Windows Server family, then it is important to read through the first few chapters and take your time absorbing basic networking and operating system concepts before delving deeper into the book. Regardless of your level, you will find that this book is written in a very simple yet detailed fashion. Of course, the advanced users will find it the most useful. <br />The book is divided into six parts plus the Appendices. The different parts are - Preparing for Installation, Installation and Configuration, Network Administration, Support Services and Features, Internet Servers and Services, and Tuning, Maintenance &amp; Repair. <br />I plan to take the MCSE for Windows Server 2003 (Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer) sometime next year and I am finding that this is a valuable addition to my preparation book list. There are plenty of books out there that help you prepare for this set of exams but you will still need a good reference on Windows Server 2003 in order to pull all the knowledge together.<br />Overall, I am happy with the money I spent on this book and I am using it quite often as I design and set up my own small business corporate network. All the way from setting up the Exchange Server for e-mail to Windows XP Professional clients for the different people using the network. The network devices are so easily found by Windows Server 2003 even if the device is attached to one of the client machines and not directly on the network. <br />One final note - even though this book is an excellent desk reference, I am finding that you still have to supplement this book with others depending on your goals. For example - if you are preparing for any of the MCSA/MCSE exams, you will need exam preparation guides. If you are installing specific software like Visual Studio.NET, you may run into some issues that are not covered in this desk reference. The bottom line is that when you get to the Advanced User stage, you will probably need a whole host of other books to supplement your knowledge. And some people find this book to be too heavy to carry around so it may be worthwhile to find a pocket reference type of book for that purpose. I hope you find this review helpful and good luck!	2003-10-01
US	49111865	RHWY7DJMT9N7P	0596000413	192176281	Web Database Applications with PHP & MySQL	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Excellent Tutorial style intro for Intermediate programmers.	As the title indicates, this book is all about building websites powered by database applications. The book uses PHP and MySQL for a scripting language and a database technology respectively. Familiarity with programming and computers is assumed but other than that, not much else is assumed. The authors do an excellent job of explaining some of the fundamental concepts underlying database driven websites. All this is done in simple terms without too much jargon. To top it all off, a tutorial style approach is taken to illustrate how all these concepts come together. The tutorial is on building an online retail site that sells wines. The sample code used in the book can be downloaded from the publisher's website. <br />PHP is a powerful language that is open source and that can be used in lieu of Java and .NET technologies for many web applications that aren't too complex. For most small business owners, this should suffice. I am not too sure about using it in large corporations. This is one of the most popular open source technology along with Linux and MySQL. <br />MySQL is an open source database that can be used instead of SQL Server, Access, or Oracle. Once again, when the database application gets complex, I am not confident of its ability to handle the complexity. This is also excellent for small businesses but not large corporations.<br />There are about 13 chapters and 5 appendices spanning 550 pages starting with an introduction to database applications and the web, continuing with an intro to PHP and MySQL, covering the main concepts behind web technologies and ending with the sample wine store application. The main concepts discussed are querying databases, writing to databases, validations on the server and client, session management, user authentication and security. The appendices handle installation, modeling and designing relational databases, managing sessions in the database tier, etc. <br />Overall, the selection of topics is perfect for Intermediate programmers and the explanations are very detailed yet simple. This is probably one of the reasons this book is so popular. I have thoroughly enjoyed using this book and I am not surprised to see such a high quality book from this publisher. I am not familiar with the authors but I am going to keep an eye open in the future for other books by them. <br />I felt it was a bit pricey for a book of this nature but this is the only one I could find that covered these specific topics so I am not going to complain. Enjoy creating your own database driven website!	2003-10-01
US	49111865	R2KUI48E3D6OKU	0764543849	172338842	Beginning VB.NET (Programmer to Programmer)	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Perfect for beginners - programming experience NOT needed	If you are a beginner to VB.NET or even a beginner to programming and are interested in creating a software application, this book will give you all the information you need to get started on this endeavor. By the time you reach the end of the book, you may have to supplement your knowledge of VB.NET by reading a few other books depending on the nature of the software application you are creating. But otherwise, if you want to buy just ONE book and learn VB.NET in under 10 days (enough to create Version 1 of your software application), this is the book for you. <br />Why is it such a great book for beginners? It explains all the necessary concepts in great detail and in a simple fashion. No prior programming experience is assumed and the authors do a terrific job of explaining all the concepts and use good examples. The sample code can be downloaded from the publisher's website and there is an excellent discussion group led by the authors and other industry experts to answer any questions you may have on VB.NET. <br />The book covers the following main topics - an introduction chapter, VB.NET development tool, basics of writing software, how to control the program flow, intro on objects, the .NET framework, how to build windows desktop applications, how to build web applications, how to access databases, how to access other applications using your custom application, etc. <br />Of course, if the application you are building is a complex one, this book is NOT sufficient. You need to supplement the knowledge gained through this book with the knowledge from a variety of other books. This is the unfortunate thing with the .NET technology as it stands right now. The situation is definitely improving but it's not there yet in terms of easy explanations on how to manage the development of complex software.<br />What struck me most about this book was the ease with which practically anyone with above average reading and computer skills can learn how to use this powerful technology. The explanations were very clear leaving almost no doubts on how to use VB.NET for developing software applications. I believe that you can get through each chapter in 1-3 hours and if you are determined to learn VB.NET in 10 days, I believe you can do it with the help of this book. You would have to spend 10 hours a day but you would get through this book by the end of the 10 days. This might be the reason why the sales rank of this book on Amazon has gone up so rapidly over the last few months. <br />Recommended process for learning VB.NET using this book - read the book cover to cover without skipping any chapters. You can work through all the examples in each chapter or skip them if you feel comfortable that you understood what the authors are trying to convey. These chapters are organized the way they are for a very good reason, to help you learn VB.NET in the shortest amount of time and hence the recommendation NOT to skip any chapters in this book. They all cover very important topics especially for beginners. If you have any amount of programming experience - .NET in particular, you may find it extremely difficult to keep your focus while reading this book as it is too basic and covers too much material that is aimed at teaching how to program. But for beginners, this book is a blessing. Enjoy learning to program in VB.NET and good luck with your software application!	2003-09-26
US	49111865	R1ULR02AIKXON2	0789728184	49398846	MCAD/MCSD Training Guide (70-305): Developing and Implementing Web Applications with Visual Basic.NET and Visual Studio.NET	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Book completely based on Exam Objectives. 1 Practice Test.	After doing some extensive research on the best way to prepare for Exam 70-305, I found this to be one of the best solutions available in the market for the following three reasons - <br />1. Throughout the book, the chapters closely follow the exam objectives published by Microsoft. This really helps you stay focused on passing the exam. The explanations throughout the book are excellent if you are already familiar with VB.NET for the Web (includes ASP.NET, ADO.NET, the .NET framework, etc.). <br />2. Each chapter follows an excellent format that ensures that you are fully prepared to address problems on all the exam objectives. The format - a listing of the objectives, chapter outline, study strategies, explanations of concepts in objectives, step by step demonstrations of important tasks, guided practice exercises, chapter summary, exercises, review questions, exam questions and answers. Of course, this guide is not meant to replace regular books to learn the technology. The guide is only meant to help you prepare for the exam once you have learned the technology through other means.<br />3. An electronic version of the entire book on CD-ROM along with a practice test from Prep Logic and code from the entire book.<br />The CD claims to be only a preview version which means that it only has enough questions for 1 practice test. There is then a link to the Prep Logic website where you are supposed to find a premium version that has 400% the number of questions and hence more practice tests BUT after following the link, I realized that the site doesn't have a premium edition available for this particular exam (there are premium editions for all the MCSE exams but not MCSD). I was a little disappointed but I think the quality of this guide is adequate to pass the exam. Please note that this information is true at the time of writing this review so check the Prep Logic website when you are reading the review to see if anything has changed in this regard.<br />The other books and online courses that try to help one pass this exam don't seem to be as organized and thorough as this book. The online courses that are well organized are too pricey. For this exam, I think this is your best bet to help you prepare. Good luck!	2003-09-26
US	49111865	R3TQR48YSY3FU5	0072224568	395964215	Fireworks(R) MX: The Complete Reference	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Best if used in conjunction with another book.	This book is indeed a complete reference on Fireworks MX, there is no doubt about it. Can you learn how to use Fireworks MX by using this book? Only if you spend a lot of time and read the book cover to cover. I didn't like the idea of reading a 650 page book in that fashion so I look around and found a companion book 'Fireworks MX' by Carr et al. This other book is focused on providing practical exercises so you can learn faster. I ended up learning by using these books side by side. I used the Complete Reference for understanding the theory and what NOT to do while I used the book by Carr for understanding the practical aspects of HOW to use Fireworks MX. <br />One example of how useful the Complete Reference is - I was creating an animated banner so I went to Chapter 19: Creating Animated Banners. I then learned two important facts that helped me save a lot of time in the long run. First, I learned that I have to be careful about managing the file size when I am working with animated banners (there was a lot of useful information on how to do this) and second, I learned how to create Fireworks MX templates for animated banners! These templates can be used over and over to create a variety of animated banners saving you a lot of time. After reading this chapter, I felt very confident of the design and implementation aspects of creating animated banners. But when it was time to actually create the animated banner, I couldn't find any step by step instructions on how to do it! This is where I switched over to the other book and followed the step by step instructions found in Chapter 8: Animation Techniques.<br />Bottom line - it is an unfortunate fact that there aren't that many good books on using Fireworks MX so you are stuck picking 2-3 books and working with them. The Complete Reference is a good book for the theory and some valuable design tips but you need another book that is focused on the practical aspects.	2003-09-20
US	49111865	R5Q94UEY9VCRF	0735713022	990466152	Macromedia Dreamweaver MX Killer Tips (Voices That Matter)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Hundreds of Tips. Will definitely improve productivity!	This book is probably best suited for Intermediate level Dreamweaver MX users who are looking for ways to improve their productivity. This is a 200+ page book that is very colorful inside and has a killer tip per page. If you tried to learn these productivity and usage tips on your own without this book, you could spend at least an hour on each tip and still miss quite a few tips. This book will eliminate 1-2 years from your learning curve and save you hundreds of hours that can be spent on doing more projects. <br />Here's an example of how valuable these tips are - if you encounter a fatal exception error while working with Dreamweaver, do you know how NOT to lose your work? This tip alone saved me a lot of time when it happened to me (given enough time, it will definitely happen to all users). Another invaluable tip is on using Dreamweaver MX to check how your web page will display in the various browsers out there without actually having all those different browsers!<br />Some of the tips may not be real killer tips but there aren't that many that gave me such a feeling. In most cases, I am wondering if I just haven't encountered the problem yet and hence fail to see the power of the killer tip. <br />The best part about the book is that you can open the book on any page and learn something new for the day. If you spend a lot of time designing web sites, you won't regret reading a tip or two per day and in the process benefit tremendously from the time spent with the book. The price is not too bad either so don't hesitate to buy this book. Enjoy the hundreds of killer tips!	2003-09-20
US	49111865	R18FMJCPYS0QLA	0789727625	182432719	Special Edition Using Macromedia Flash MX	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent theory. Need practical follow on book though.	From a theoretical perspective, this book has an excellent coverage of Flash MX including almost everything you would want to know about ActionScript. This is the scripting language to bring control to your Flash MX work. <br />This book is best if you are an intermediate to advanced Flash MX user. It is also perfect if you have a Computer Science or Engineering background and are looking to ramp up on Flash MX really fast. If you are a beginner, I strongly recommend another book to get started in Flash MX. And if you are someone who likes to see a lot of examples while learning, you will be thoroughly disappointed with this book. The closest thing the book has on examples is the Flash at Work sections at the end of most chapters that are aimed to give you a sneak preview of how the experts in the field work with Flash. The CD-ROM has the files you need to work through these special sections in each chapter. Even then, the explanations of these files are mostly limited to 2 pages per chapter.<br />In terms of completeness, this book has a thorough coverage of Flash MX. The book has a semi-textbook format where the chapters need to be read in the order presented. If you do that, you won't have any trouble understanding the terminology or the concepts. Ignore what the book claims about being able to read the chapters independently, I believe that's the best recipe for confusion. The book has a very pleasing format with a good use of the color light orange throughout the book. I especially enjoyed the writing style which is very precise with almost no errors.<br />The book's 670 pages span 30 chapters and an Appendix (that covers Accessibility Guidelines). These chapters are divided into 6 major sections - Flash Environment and Tools, Animation and Sound, Adding Advanced Interactivity with ActionScript, Advanced ActionScripting, External Communication with Flash, and Output Options for Flash. I spent most of my time with the first two sections to get a handle on what Flash is all about and how to use it. I then spent some time going through the next two sections which focus on ActionScipt which is JavaScript modified for use with Flash MX. These two sections form the core of the book with a good coverage of ActionScript from a programming perspective. The authors explain almost everything you need to know to program in ActionScript including good programming practices. <br />I am now on the lookout for a companion book that is full of practical examples to supplement this book so that I can become an expert through practice...Bottom line - DON'T get this book if you are a beginner, dislike pure theory, or love a book with lots of examples. But if you have been in the IT field for a long time and feel comfortable learning a new software program explained in a text book format, GET this book without hesitation.<br />Enjoy this reference book on your way to becoming a better Flash MX developer!	2003-09-19
US	49111865	R3O332KUO3H4ZO	0735711402	461771816	Fireworks MX Magic (Magic (New Riders))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	15 Projects - Excellent for becoming an Intermediate User.	This expensive book on Fireworks MX has a little over 200 pages covering 15 projects. It is assumed that you are a beginner wanting to move to the next level. The projects address important problems you will encounter on a daily basis and explain solutions in a simple step by step fashion. <br />To give a preview of what to expect when you work through this book - you will learn how to create flashy buttons, understand the concepts behind large-scale link management, building the ultimate navigational bar, creating perfect pop-up menus, etc. There are a few advanced topics like using Fireworks extensions and collaborative workflow. All in all, this is an excellent book deriving its value from the project based approach (one project per chapter) written and reviewed by experts in the industry. <br />The entire book is in black and white so the only color you will see is the little yellowish orange on the cover. The book doesn't sit like a normal book on a bookshelf because of its unique dimensions (8x10 instead of 10x8). I personally didn't care too much for this format but it isn't bothersome either. The project files are on the accompanying CD-ROM. The book uses a two column format throughout whereby the text is aligned with the associated images. This provides faster understanding of the topic being discussed.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading the chapters on how to build a very cool navigational bar and how to design a dynamic interface using rollovers etc. The chapter on flashy buttons was fun also. Beginners will not be confused by the writing style which is very direct and simple. I didn't find anything magical about this book as hinted in the title but it is a very practical book and useful to almost any Fireworks designer.<br />Considering the tremendous background that the authors possess, they could have provided more tips and covered another 10-15 projects for the price of the book. But other than that, this is an excellent book on the path to becoming anIntermediate user if you don't mind the price. Enjoy!	2003-09-19
US	49111865	R1ZZMIBFKJXD7G	0735710791	794445156	Designing Web Graphics. 4, 4th Edition	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A must have Reference book on Web Graphics.	This is 500 pages spanning 30 chapters that are not very technical at all but explain a lot of facts relating to designing web graphics and websites. <br />If you even remotely work with websites, you will find this book an invaluable reference to understanding various aspects of designing web graphics and designing websites. The topics are very well organized and cover almost anything you may encounter. Here are some important chapters whose topics you may recognize - Web Aesthetics, Browser-Safe Color, Navigation, Planning Web Projects, Frames, Cascading Style Sheets, Animation &amp; Audio, Creating Community, and Web File Formats. <br />The facts presented in each chapter are done so in an easy to understand writing style but possess breadth and depth on the topic. At the end of each chapter, there is a 1 page summary of the highlights learned in the chapter. The author doesn't assume that you are an advanced reader and hence explains everything in great detail. It is more than likely that you will understand almost any topic in this book (if you read it fully) even if you are just a beginner. This was the biggest appeal to me as I am a Technical Project Manager that has to know a little bit of everything. This book definitely met that goal and more. <br />You may hesitate at the price but the chances are high that you will not regret purchasing this book. This is one of the most referenced books in my book collection as there seems to be no end to the knowledge gained from this book. I hope you have a similar experience with this book. Enjoy!	2003-09-19
US	49111865	R2ANTSJ7JEGBLA	0873377966	533471295	Everyday Employment Law: The Basics	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Basic info from several other Nolo books made into a guide.	The information in this guide has been gleaned from several other Nolo books. So if you are looking for just basic information on this specific subject of Everyday Employment Law, then you could avoid buying all the other books and get this one instead. <br />It is important to note that this is really a BASIC book as indicated in the title also. There are 13 short chapters starting from the topic of hiring employees, wage and hour law, discrimination, etc. to privacy, union, and health & safety issues.<br />The topic of Handling Workplace Problems (Chapter 11) is better handled in another Nolo guide - Dealing With Problem Employees by Amy DelPo & Lisa Guerin. The topic of Firing and Layoffs (Chapter 12) is better handled in the Nolo guide - Firing Without Fear by Barbara Kate Repa. The topic of Wage and Hour Law (Chapter 2) and the topic of Health & Safety are better handled in the Nolo guide - Federal Employment Laws by Amy DelPo & Lisa Guerin. I haven't read all the Nolo guides so I can't place where the rest of the topics are better addressed but that's why I bought this book on the basics. I plan on buying the other detailed books at a later stage. For now, I will read the basics in this book.<br />The price is low enough that I felt it was worthwhile buying this book that has repeat topics from several other Nolo guides. Good luck!	2003-08-14
US	49111865	R29WPZ6D2K8PDR	0873375769	823873054	Hiring Independent Contractors: The Employers' Legal Guide (Working with Independent Contractors: The Employer's Legal Guide)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The details on the topic of independent contractors.	You will find a general treatment of the topic of Independent Contractors (IC) in other Nolo guides but if you want a definitive and detailed guide, this is the book for you. All the way from templates of general independent contractor forms on CD-ROM to a thorough analysis of the various aspects of working with Independent Contractors, this book does a great job of discussing in plain English what every Small Business Owner needs to know. There is another Nolo guide on just the different contracts you could use for this purpose but this book contains most of those types of forms.<br />The book starts out with an introductory definition of an Independent Contractor and explains the benefits and risks of hiring one. The next natural step for every employer is to go through the process of determining the worker status and federal payroll taxes. After discussing this topic, the book explains the Safe Harbor Protection which is the process an IRS auditor is supposed to follow in determining if your classification of Independent Contractors should be questioned (something along these lines). <br />There are 3 chapters devoted to IRS specific topics - IRS Audits, tax rules for specific workers, and the IRS test for worker status. State payroll taxes, Workers' Compensation, hiring household workers, and labor/anti-discrimination laws are addressed after that. <br />The book then discusses the topic of Intellectual Property ownership in this context of Independent Contractors. This is followed by a few chapters on sample IC agreements, procedures for hiring ICs, how to avoid government audits etc. My favorite chapter is the Chapter 13: Intellectual Property Ownership as this can get very tricky if you aren't careful. In my business, this also happens to be one of the biggest risks in hiring ICs for our work instead of employees. <br />Overall, this is an excellent book that explains in plain English (as Nolo always does) of the intricacies involved in working with ICs. Of course, as some large corporations in the computer industry found out, it isn't that straight forward. So this book only helps you do some of the right things and avoid the obvious problems but there is no substitute for a good lawyer who can handle the more difficult issues.<br />Good luck!	2003-08-14
US	49111865	R3UKS187HA6OTC	0873374355	825335508	Firing Without Fear: A Legal Guide for Conscientious Employers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clear description of the reasons to fire and not to fire.	If you only have a few minutes - the summary of this review is that you should read Chapter 4: Legal Reasons to Fire to get the most out of this book. Read on for more details ...<br />This is one of Nolo's books that are very detailed and pertain to an extremely narrow topic. Hence the book with a broader coverage to read first is Nolo's 'Dealing With Problem Employees' by Amy DelPo and Lisa Guerin. There is some overlap in topics between the two books but 'Firing Without Fear' goes into almost everything you may want to know about this subject.<br />At first glance, this book seemed like one of Nolo's lighter books as it was the thinnest Nolo book I have but I felt different after reading through the book. There are 9 chapters and the book progresses in this fashion - <br />The first chapter discusses the many reasons why we are afraid to fire. The purpose of this chapter seems to be to connect to the reader and get the reader's interest. It does a good job in the 12 pages devoted to this chapter. The next chapter addresses a few alternatives to firing - like training, counseling, probation, suspension, etc. and finally giving the employee the option to leave (as opposed to firing). In my opinion, this topic is better addressed in the other book from Nolo that I mentioned above - 'Dealing with Problem Employees'.<br />The core of the book is in Chapters 3-5 with Chapter 3 categorizing 6 different types of behavior in employees that is very annoying and unproductive so you may want to give the employees a chance to correct the behavior before firing them. The 6 different personality types are The Gossip, The Fingerpointer, The Downer, The Braggart, The Slacker, and The Jokester. These terms are self explanatory but the book does a good job of spending a couple of pages painting a clearer picture of each type. <br />Chapter 4 describes Employment at Will and the various valid reasons for firing and the exceptions to the Employment at Will. I found this chapter of 34pages the most eye opening as I had not realized the full implications of this topic. If you only have an hour to spend on the book, read this chapter. It is the most practical treatment of this subject I have seen in other books for non-lawyers like myself. This gave me the required knowledge and confidence I need before approaching a professional lawyer for help if necessary (I have been fortunate enough not to have encountered employees that needed to be fired).<br />Chapter 5 addresses discrimination at the workplace and is aptly titled 'Discrimination: The Biggest Wrong of All'. I think this chapter may be a little light considering the breadth of the topic but it does a decent job of addressing the basics. You may want to get a book focused on just this topic if you need more information. Without a doubt, this is one topic where I would seek a professional lawyer's help.<br />The rest of the book goes over the topics of the firing event itself (how and where to do it, etc.), cutting back or closing down, severance, and how to hire a lawyer (found in many other Nolo books but this one is specific to the topic of firing and employment law). <br />Overall, a nifty little book that I found helpful and it definitely boosted my confidence and even my management skills. I am now less nervous when I think of firing someone. Bottom line, read Chapter 4 and definitely get the other book by Nolo on the bigger picture 'Dealing With Problem Employees' by Amy DelPo and Lisa Guerin. <br />Good luck!	2003-08-14
US	49111865	R3E47UG9WS1K5E	1578511429	355293534	Harvard Business Review on Corporate Strategy (Harvard Business Review Paperback Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Theories on Strategy backed by real life examples.	This is another excellent collection of essays from Harvard Business Review and the topic is Corporate Strategy. 8 essays in a little less than 250 pages address various corporate strategies that can be useful if you are in a similar situation. <br />These are very interesting theories and it is fascinating to read them with all the real life examples. If you don't enjoy pure strategy, some of the material may feel dull though. This book goes into the guts of what makes for good corporate strategy. It starts out with a chapter on Creating Corporate Advantage where you are exposed to examples of companies that leveraged their multibusiness capabilities extremely well to create a serious corporate advantage (the companies are Tyco International, Sharp, The Newell Company, and Saatchi and Saatchi). <br />The book then moves on to the strategy in the 1990s with a focus on competing on resources. Five tests are put forward that should help determine if a resource can qualify to be the basis for an effective strategy. <br />The rest of the book addresses topics such as Synergy, Strategies for a Sustainable World, Emerging Markets, Competing on Capabilities, Parenting Advantage (the kind of businesses a company should own), etc.<br />Overall, the book has some very serious discussions on Corporate Strategies. Some of these may not be as relevant to the particular situation you are in, but most would be if you work in a large organization. I picked up the book to see what I could learn on strategy for small businesses but this isn't the book for that. Though these lessons could be applied when the small business starts transforming into a large business. Bottom line - this book is an interesting read especially if you are in an MBA program or are part of the upper management of a large corporation. Enjoy!	2003-08-12
US	49111865	R1B7G7A08R1AS7	1578515572	399370799	Harvard Business Review on Decision Making	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Theory and Practice - advice from the leading minds.	There are several books from the Harvard Business Review that follow this simple format - essays on critical topics by the leading minds in the field compiled into a short book of around 200 pages. One of these critical topics is Decision Making. That topic is the focus of this book.<br />There are hundreds of books on management, strategy, leadership, etc. but not many are purely dedicated to treating the subject of Decision Making from a theoretical and abstract perspective. This book contains 8 short essays presenting different theories by people by Peter Drucker. <br />The first chapter starts off with an impressive treatment of The Effective Decision. It is impressive because of the wisdom packed into these few pages and the aptness of the title. The author (Peter Drucker) dispels the myths about the most effective decision makers being the ones that can think fast and manipulate a large number of variables in their heads. Instead he explains that the best decision makers are the ones who focus on impact instead of technique. He then systematically explains a simple process to follow to achieve the same results as the highly successful executives. <br />The book then moves on to topics dealing with how to make trade-offs, humble decision making (which is nothing but accepting that your first impressions may be wrong and be open to changing the direction of your thoughts as more information becomes available), interpersonal barriers, hidden traps, when to trust your gut, and analyzing problems. The essay on interpersonal barriers was very familiar to me as I had experienced the situations described several times in my own career.<br />The book is simple - it has no pictures, just some tables once in a while and some blank paper at the end of the book to takes notes. The size is small like a novel but very potent! When I first saw this book at a bookstore, I didn't think much of it. But I picked it up because of the Harvard Business Review name on the front cover. I couldn't put it down once I started reading the first chapter and immediately purchased a few books in this series. <br />These books and especially this one can be described in only one word - potent. They are like text books or Ph.D papers except they are very practical. These are some of my favorite management/business books but they are difficult to digest. Since they are abstract in nature, one has to read them very slowly and read them with total concentration. The authors don't spend time painting a picture in detail and trying to get you excited. They get straight to the point and finish it in less than 20 pages. If you read these books like you would read other books, you are likely to miss the point. <br />This book in particular is very unique as there aren't that many books dedicated to just Decision Making. Enjoy learning from the masters! Good luck!	2003-08-12
US	49111865	R3G323WYJXPC6	0873378326	801429853	Tax Savvy for Small Business, Sixth Edition	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Excellent overview - concise and to the point.	This guide is different from the many tax guides out there from big names like Ernst &amp; Young, etc. because it is more focussed on small businesses and you get the most relevant information in the most concise fashion. There in lies the limitation of this great book. You may have to refer to the other tax guides if your particular situation is too unique. <br />But the conciseness and focussed approach was extremely helpful in clarifying a lot of points for me. I had tried reading several of the bigger guides (with three times as many pages as this book) and gotten confused because it was too much information. So when I saw the Nolo guide, I was pleasantly surprised that every topic in the book was relevant to me as a small business owner! It was perfect for my needs. I now started understanding the very same topics I had so much difficulty following in the other books. For example - I was trying to research the differences between S Corporations and LLCs. When I opened this Nolo guide, I went straight to the chapter on LLCs and read the section - Comparing LLCs with Other Entities. In one sentence I knew the difference between these two entities! According to the book, the basic difference being that you can allocate income and expenses disproportionately (to share ownership) in an LLC but not in a S Corporation! Wow! I liked the speed with which I could find this critical piece of information I was researching.<br />The book is divided into 6 parts - The Basics (Business Income and Tax Deductible Expenses, Recordkeeping and Accounting, etc.), The Form of Your Business (Sole Proprietorships, Partnerships, S Corporations, etc.), Thinking Small (Family Businesses, Microbusinesses and Home-Based Businesses), Fringe Benefits (Retirement Plans etc.), Buying or Selling a Business, and Dealing with the IRS. There isn't a single page that is irrelevant.<br />If you have very advanced questions, you are better off looking through a bigger book but you would benefit tremendously by reading this book first. It will give you a firm grounding in the basics across the board. Good luck!	2003-08-11
US	49111865	RX90YA3X9NV1I	0873378199	52637132	The Corporate Minutes Book: A Legal Guide to Taking Care of Corporate Business	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Keep your corporate status. Record vital meeting minutes.	One simple reason to record meeting minutes is to be able to retain the precious corporate status of your business. Otherwise, the courts may strip away the corporate status leaving the owners vulnerable to lawsuits. That's one of the many things I learned by reading just the first chapter in this book. <br />I first ordered it because I wanted templates I could customize for my own company and I had read that this Nolo book had almost a 100 different forms in electronic format (CD-ROM) that I can use for recording all kinds of important corporate decisions. But when I got the book, I was surprised that it was such a heavy book and curiosity got the better of me and I started skimming through the various chapters. <br />This book has more than just tear out forms and electronic versions of these forms. Keeping with Nolo tradition, it has about 20 chapters dedicated to explaining in great detail all the various forms that can be used for recording corporate meeting minutes and HOW to use these forms. It made eveverything really easy!<br />The first 8 chapters of the book are about how to hold the meetings and record the minutes (including How to Take Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting). The chapters following that include topics like 'Corporate Tax Resolutions', 'Corporate Hiring and Appointment Resolutions', 'Resolutions for Loans to the Corporation', and 'Stock Issuance Resolutions'. I especially like the discussion of Legal and Tax Issues Affecting Stock Issuance and Loans to the Corporation by Shareholders and Other Insiders. <br />This is probably the most expensive Nolo book that you can purchase (almost twice their cheapest book) but I didn't hesitate even a second to buy this book because I was sure I would spend hours trying to come up with my own forms for meeting minutes. I thought it would be better to just buy and use their forms instead. Good luck and don't lose that precious corporate status!	2003-08-11
US	49111865	R3KTTKHWLPO8YB	0873379101	334653539	Legal Guide for Starting & Running a Small Business, Seventh Edition	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Complete Legal guide for STARTING a business.	There are several books in the market on how to incorporate your company based on the state. Even though there is an advantage to these books as you get state specific information for filing paperwork to incorporate, usually there isn't any other information in these books that you can use.<br />This Nolo guide on the other hand stays kind of generic in the sense that they don't spend too much time in how to fill out the incorporation forms and where to file. Instead, they give good information on every subject you would need to research when starting a small business. <br />The book starts off by explaining the different legal forms of corporate entities you can choose for your business and details each of these forms in the next three chapters. After this, there are more than 20 chapters devoted to almost any kind of situation you may encounter. For example - there is a chapter on Resolving Legal Disputes, a chapter on Small Business Contracts, a chapter on Home Based Business, etc. Some of the topics I had no prior knowledge of and gained tremendously from - Retail Pricing and Return Practices, Zoning Laws, Deducting Expenses for Business Use of Your Home, Workers' Compensation, Thirteen Common Sources of Money, and Strong and Weak Trademarks. <br />This is a good book to read when you are STARTING your own business. After that, you will probably need to research more into the topics that are relevant to your situation. Otherwise, there wouldn't be so many different legal guides that small businesses can use (from Nolo). Obviously, as your particular situation becomes more unique you need to refer to the specific books that have an advanced treatment of that topic. And finally, it is always better to seek a lawyer's help after being aware of the basics of the Law.<br />As usual, Nolo does a fantastic job of covering a broad range of topics in a very detailed fashion without losing the reader's attention. There are a lot of examples to explain the various topics and everything is in plain English. I especially like the references to the IRS forms and publications you need in various circumstances. When you go to the IRS website, it isn't clear which form is relevant to you. It's neat that Nolo makes sure to reference the right form when they are discussing a particular subject.<br />I hope your small business succeeds and that you find this book helpful in getting things started. Be sure to check out the other Nolo books when you are past the initial stages and definitely build a good working relationship with a trustworthy lawyer for times of need. Good luck!	2003-08-11
US	49111865	RNL5GLDTQAXD1	0873378555	64639611	The Copyright Handbook: How to Protect & Use Written Works with CDROM with CDROM	Books	5	40	40	N	N	The best handbook on how to protect and use written works.	This is one of more than 30 Nolo books I have been using for the last 3 years in my small business. As usual, Nolo doesn't disappoint in this comprehensive book on copyright law and instructions on how to protect your written works. <br />The book comes with many tear out forms with the electronic versions of the forms on CD-ROM. Common and not so common topics are addressed. I was immediately interested in the Chapters on Copyright Basics, Copyright Notice, and Copyright Registration. These three chapters gave me the most vital information I needed to know about Copyrights. For example, I didn't know that works don't need to be registered to be protected by the Copyright Law but if registered with the Copyright office in a timely fashion, the owner gets some special benefits in the case of copyright infringement. I also understood the different treatment given to published and unpublished works. <br />The sections on copyrights in the online world was of even greater interest to me as I am in the process of creating some websites with online content. I had not known that I could register my online work (as long it met the same requirements for registering copyrights on normal works). The chapter on online works also has detailed information on how deep links are treated, etc.<br />The section on Fair Use was very helpful as it explained as clearly as possible the circumstances under which you CAN copy a copyrighted work as long as it met the Fair Use guidelines. <br />Even the less frequently researched topics like 'Transferring Copyright Ownership' and 'International Copyright Protection' are addressed in sufficient detail.<br />All in all, this is a very important book if you have any kind of work that you want to copyright or if you are considering the implications of copying somebody's work under the Fair Use guidelines. The book is by no means an easy read but Nolo does an excellent job of explaining this fairly complicated subject in plain English for the ordinary person (which seems to be the goal in all of their books). I went to the Nolo website for the latest information on the Copyright Law and wasn't disappointed there either. They have a terrific FAQ section that explains in great detail some of the latest information pertaining to the Copyright Law (especially as applicable in the online world). <br />I hope you are able to benefit to the same extent that I did, and good luck!	2003-08-11
US	49111865	R3QXQJ8XGBU5V	0873379004	381923598	Consultant & Independent Contractor Agreements, Third Edition	Books	5	55	56	N	N	Use templates but get final validation from a lawyer.	If you are running a small business, you will definitely need some sort of agreements to use with your clients or vendors. This Nolo guide should be used in conjunction with another Nolo guide 'How to Create Noncompete Agreements' to have the best combination of contracts to protect yourself. <br />The first few chapters in the book outline both perspectives - hired consultant and client hiring the consultant. The chapters following these initial chapters focus on different kinds of situations like Agreements for Accounting and Bookkeeping Services, Agreements for Software Consultants (the one I started using right away), etc. These chapters basically outline the relevant contract and discuss the purpose of each clause in the contract along with their alternatives. You can then select the alternative that best suits your situation and modify the contract accordingly. <br />You will find the various sample agreements to be used by the hiring firm and by the independent contractor at the end of the book (and on the CD-ROM). <br />It took me all of 15 minutes to read the chapter on agreements for software consultants and highlight the clauses I wanted to modify. I spent an additional hour modifying the electonic version of the form and saving the file. After this, I emailed the electronic copy to my lawyer who charged me a much lower fee to check the contract! She basically found 3 errors I didn't know about and fixed them for me. I then sent the contract to my client to sign. Right there, the book paid for itself many times over! <br />But don't forget to combine this book with the other book on Noncompete Agreements. It is especially critical if you are the hiring firm. Good luck!	2003-08-11
US	49111865	R39GZ9MC8YS4EB	0873378016	931698041	Patent It Yourself	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Only for gaining a better understanding. Don't self-file.	As another reviewer of this book aptly pointed out, the downside to making a mistake on this most complex part of the law (patent law) is too high. Hence it may be better to use this book for becoming an informed person and let the experts (lawyers) take care of ensuring that there are no holes in the application filed. Personally, it has given me the minimum understanding of patents that I need as a business person to know what I need to patent, when to patent it, how to patent it, and the advantages/disadvantages of patenting. <br />There are also ways to save on legal costs by doing some of the obvious research yourself. My favorite chapter in this book is Chapter 5: What is Patentable? It outlines and explains the four requirements of patentability - The statutory classes, utility, novelty, and unobviousness. There is also an accompanying flowchart that you can use to guess whether your patent application will be approved. <br />I found the first three chapters of this thick book to be most informative for my purposes. The first chapter contains an introduction to patents and other intellectual property (like trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, etc.). The second chapter explains what an invention really is. The third chapter is all about documentation (needed to prove invention).<br />The book does contain tear out forms you can use to do your own filing but as mentioned above, I wouldn't do it as I prefer relying on a lawyer to do it right.<br />Overall, this is the best book I found on patents. Nolo guides are known for their plain English explanation of the law. This guide is no exception. I haven't regretted buying this book even though it's a bit on the pricey side because of the value it provides. Good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	R3MRQG1XAJN5T2	0873377141	820827048	How to Create a Noncompete Agreement	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An eye opener on noncompete agreements.	Before reading this book, I did not know that noncompete agreements have limited enforceability in the state of Texas! This changed my whole perspective on what it means to sign a noncompete agreement whether you are an employer or an employee. When I was an employee for a Texas corporation, I passed up a couple of business opportunites (later as a small business owner) because I misunderstood the noncompete agreement I had signed and didn't realize that it was not enforceable! Now as a small business owner, I don't want to make the same mistake the other way and think I am protected from people stealing my ideas when I am not. So I started reading this book and understanding what you are trying to accomplish with such an agreement and the way to accomplish it through agreements that are enforceable. In cases where a noncompete agreement is not the right tool, there are nondisclosure and nonsolicitation agreements. The enforceability always seems to vary depending on whether an employee or an independent contractor signs it. <br />The best part about the book is the CD-ROM that accompanies the book with a lot of forms that can be customized for your individual situation. There are forms that can be used with employees and forms that can be used with independent contractors. This is a short book with just 8 chapters. The first two are devoted to explaining what a noncompete agreement is and when to use one. The next four chapters address these contracts for employees and independent contractors along with how to create the necessary agreements. The last two chapters are devoted to revising your agreements when workers depart and how to obtain help beyond this book. <br />All the sample forms are printed in the appendix so you don't have to use the CD-ROM to see if you can use any of them and if so, which one to use. I like this as I prefer reading on paper first and then just find the right electronic form later.<br />My favorite chapter is Chapter 7 - When Workers Depart: Revisiting Your Agreement. There is valuable information on how to enforce your agreement when someone breaks it and how to prove that they broke the agreement. The law seems to be only as good as your ability to prove things. So I thoroughly enjoyed reading this chapter as it armed me with the right information to use before approaching my lawyer for help.<br />Nolo books are aimed at providing legal information in plain English for the common person. I hope you are able to benefit from this book as much as I did. Good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	RNO6CEKOBF8XF	087337715X	701619728	Dealing with Problem Employees: A Legal Guide (Book with CD-ROM) (Dealing With Problem Employees, 1st ed)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Topics discussed are very relevant; Good facts and advice.	This Nolo Guide is an excellent discussion in plain English of the many things that are involved when you are dealing with problem employees. In 10 chapters, the book covers all the important topics from understanding the problem, employment law basics, and handling complaints, to information on how to fire, planning for the aftermath, and hiring a lawyer if necessary.<br />Nolo Guides have always been a small business owner's best legal friends but they are useful to almost anyone that wants to have a better understanding of the law before consulting a lawyer (as this saves on money you would have to spend getting educated). This book is no exception and provides very valuable information and advice on how to handle difficult situations with problem employees. <br />One of the best sections that I found useful were in the chapter on Employement Law Basics. Over the years, working as a Manager in various companies, I had heard of Employment at Will but didn't fully understand its implications. I had signed several employment contracts with my employers without realizing what they meant. After reading this chapter, it made me realize how many of those contracts were not enforceable! And now as an employer, I understand what kinds of contracts ARE enforceable so I can protect myself!<br />So I believe this book is helpful whether you are an employer or an employee to get a better understanding of the law. This book is NOT meant to replace the legal advice from a lawyer but to arm you with better knowledge before you approach a lawyer. I utilize the services of a lawyer on a need basis but I always read the Nolo books on the specific topic before my meeting. As a result of that, I have saved money by asking the right questions to my lawyer and in turn my lawyer has really appreciated working with a knowledgeable client! I wish I had access to this book when I was an employee as I would have benefited tremendously (as it turns out this book was published after 2001 by which time I had already started my own business). It would have avoided a lot of heartache as I misunderstood what I had signed and thought I couldn't do certain things when in fact I could. I also missed a couple of business opportunities as a result of that.<br />I hope you find this book as valuable as I did. I actually have more than 30 of their books on all kinds of legal topics. I plan on buying more whenever I can afford them. I have not been disapopinted by a single book from Nolo yet. Good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	R30OYIZR94EFP6	0873375726	19006607	Leasing Space for Your Small Business (Negotiate the Best Lease for Your Business)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Combines legal information and business basics on leasing.	One may not expect a legal guide to have business related information on the topic being discussed. Nolo guides are typically an exception to that rule just like this one. There is a lot of information that you will need to put together and decisions to be made before you even get to the point of signing a lease agreement and this book address those concerns on top of the legal aspects to signing leases and neatly ties the two. <br />For that purpose, the book is divided into two parts - the first part deals with how to prepare for leasing space (evaluating your needs, finding the space, evaluating the space, understanding true costs, coming up with a negotiating strategy, etc.) and the second part deals with the common lease terms (lease basics, length of the lease, security deposits, insurance clauses, breaking the lease, etc.).<br />My favorite chapter is Chapter 14: Option to Renew or Sublet and Other Flexibility Clause. In this economy, I didn't want to just sign any lease without knowing what my options are if I am forced to sublet. In the personal situation with renting apartments, in the past I had neglected to check these clauses and ended up suffering when I had financial problems and couldn't sublet! This time around I am carefully researching this before signing a long term contract. So I was happy to see this section and learned a lot about Rights of First Refusal and First Offer (I had heard about these things before reading this book but didn't exactly know the implications) among other related topics.<br />We are currently using this book to lease office space for the first time and finding that this book is saving us a lot of time. And I feel that it is reducing risk in the long term. I am glad I am not depending on 'standard' lease contracts to take care of my needs and instead identifying what my needs are and making sure that the lease agreement addresses those issues. Considering how much research I have been able to do with this book's help, Iam confident that this is really going to pay off in the long run. I do plan on working with my lawyer before signing the final contract but it is so helpful to do all the up front work on my own so there is no middle person involved. Even if there are middle people involved, I believe it is going to make the communication smoother as I don't have to depend on them to keep my best interests in mind (as we can guess, they probably won't or may be too involved with their own best interests). <br />Before Nolo guides, there wasn't much out there to help you understand the law. These books explain the law in plain English. They do a fantastic job too! Lawyers should always be consulted to assist you with legal situations but it is good to have this information ahead of time so communication is smoother and the legal costs lesser. I hope you benefit from this book as much as we have. Good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	R25I492IA6KXLO	0873377982	197529199	Federal Employment Laws: A Desk Reference	Books	5	4	5	N	N	TRULY a desk reference on 19 federal employment laws.	The first thing I worried about after incorporating my business and before hiring my first employees was all the employment laws I had to follow. I had been warned that there are many laws that I need to comply with proactively to ensure minimal problems in the future. I knew that starting a small business and making it succeed would be very hard and I didn't want to make it any harder by leaving myself open to legal liabilities. I originally had to look through several references trying to understand all the different employment laws till Nolo released this book last year and I felt a huge relief. <br />This book contains hundreds of pages of information that is very nicely organized. Here's why - there are 19 federal employment laws covered in this book (a chapter for each law) and the best chapter is the introductory chapter that explains how to use the book! It addresses the need of how to figure out which of the 19 federal employment laws apply in your business situation. It outlines the process you need to follow to establish this. This was one of the most difficult things for me. After reading this section, I systematically followed the instructions for each law and came up with a chart that uniquely applies to my business. It doesn't take more than a few hours to do this.<br />Each chapter also has selected portions of the actual law. The way you can distinguish the main chapter from these sections on the actual law is the smaller print. The only complaint I have against this book is the very small print used in printing these selected portions. Recently Nolo went from large books to small books (same material, just smaller font) and they didn't account for the smaller font becoming really small during this conversion! So if possible, look for the original larger books unless you have excellent vision and don't mind reading such small print. I guess Nolo took the old adage 'don't forget to read the small print' literally :-)<br />But seriously, this book isjust fantastic. Each chapter is split into various meaningful sections. For example - there is the section on definitions, an overview section, an enforcement section, a section for employers, and a section for employees. There are also sections on the agencies charged with enforcement and compliance, and the state laws relating to the subject. These sections are further divided into record keeping tips, penalties, practical tips, etc.<br />This book keeps in mind the practical aspects of the law as applicable to the reader. It is saving us thousands of dollars that we might have had to spend otherwise in gaining the necessary knowledge of the various employment laws. By the way, there are also references in each chapter on where to obtain the relevant forms. In the past, I had spent countless hours trying to figure out where I could find the forms to download (it took a long time even with Google's help). But with this book's help, I spend just a few minutes to find these forms!<br />As usual, Nolo explains everything in plain English so you don't need a legal background to understand the law. This book is meant for both employees as well as employers. Pick up a copy of this book if you need any kind of information regarding employment law and you won't regret it. We haven't so good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	RQQ7M63JUHVBA	0873378369	123638032	Your Rights in the Workplace, Sixth Edition	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Employees' most valuable and complete guide:  workplace laws	Even after working in Corporate America for several years as a manager, it wasn't until I started my own business that I started paying attention to employment laws. And then I was amazed at how little attention I had paid to my rights in the workplace when I was an employee! I now realize that I didn't know anything about my privacy rights, or when I was being illegally discriminated against or what to do if I got fired. Part of the reason was that I had been lucky enough to work for good employers (and especially great bosses) who were very fair and I never felt the need to understand my rights because they took care of protecting them proactively through their internal guidelines and implementation.<br />I realize now that everyone isn't as lucky when I started hearing the horror stories that some of my friends had to endure. If I had continued working for Corporate America (I started my own small business a few years back) I believe that eventually I would have encountered situations where I would need to know my workplace rights.<br />That's where this book comes in. It gives a fantastic overview of almost every law imaginable that could apply to you if you are an employee. It is a very detailed book with countless pages spent on comparing the laws as enforced in various states so you can find your own state law and see the details. A good example is the chapter on wages - there are tables comparing the rules for overtime, meal breaks, minimum wages, etc. for each state. In this chapter, I also found an interesting tidbit of information on meal and break periods. It describes the different situations under which your employer is required to pay for meal time!<br />The entire book is full of helpful and valuable information on your workplace rights. I personally believe that it is good to have this book handy even if you don't need it right now. It makes for interesting reading and you will feel more in control of your behavior at work and not as afraid of yourlawful actions. Here's something else to think about - the book has information on the time period in which you can lodge a complaint against your employer after something unlawful has happened to you. Even if you decide not to do anything about something that has happened to you, at least you know the expiration date on your right to complain under the various circumstances!<br />This book also happens to be one of the more inexpensive books from Nolo. If you are new to Nolo books, you will quickly realize that they do a fantastic job of explaining the law in plain English. And they are very detailed. Enjoy!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	RC6ZRXI7INJUN	087337830X	582200528	Nolo's Encyclopedia of Everyday Law: Answers to Your Most Frequently Asked Legal Questions, Fourth Edition	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Excellent overview of various laws for everyday life.	If there is only one legal book that you wish to buy, let it be this one. Or if you are looking to buy your first legal book, this is the best choice. The reason is that this book contains information on the law in a great many areas of everyday life - houses, neighbors, landlords and tenants, workplace rights, small businesses, patents, wills and estate planning, parents and children, etc. There are also two valuable chapters on courts and criminal law. These two chapters have information on how to represent yourself in court, how to deal with your lawyer, and what to do in case of an arrest or search.<br />Every single topic I researched on my own from 'What does renter's insurance cover?' to 'Do I need a lawyer to make my will?', I found that this book has the most comprehensive information on the topic than anywhere else I looked. I have now formed a system where I always consult this book first and then go to the specific Nolo book on the topic for very detailed information if needed. I have over 30 Nolo guides and I feel so much more confident about my understanding of the law as a result of reading these books. I think my lawyer also appreciates it as she finds it easy to work with me on the various legal issues in my business.<br />The Nolo guides typically look pricey (compared to other books) but really aren't when you consider the wealth of information provided and the depth of topics covered along with the plain English explanations. My two favorite chapters in this book are the last two chapters - Courts and Mediation AND Criminal Law and Procedure. I had always been interested in HOW the law is actually implemented and these two chapters gave me a good start in gaining this understanding. I also thoroughly enjoyed the three chapters on Patents, Copyrights, and Trademarks. I especially like the explanation on how to enforce a patent and how to enforce a trademark. <br />Each chapter has many reference links at the end of the chapter where you can checkthose out for more detailed information or verify the information presented from the original sources. There is a glossary at the end of the book that is short but helpful in explaining hundreds of legal terms and there is an appendix on how to do legal research. This 10 page section on legal research is PACKED with information. This alone saved me hours of research on HOW to do legal research!<br />This book is great for both individuals and small businesses. I hope you enjoy reading this book as much I did! Good luck!	2003-08-10
US	49111865	RITBCHQ44P5EM	0684832216	155130090	The Power of Corporate Kinetics:  Create the Self-Adapting, Self-Renewing, Instant-Action Enterprise	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some good concepts. Very difficult to implement the ideas.	The ideals of the book - `Serve a single customer' and `Act in zero time' are very commendable goals. How to create a Kinetic Enterprise that can make the above two goals happens is approximately the gist of the book. <br />First, the bad - the first clue that this may be an impractical book if you are looking for implementation advice comes from the following statement on the inside front cover of the book `It's not just the increase in the rate of change; we all know markets are moving faster - it's the magnitude of the increase that is making the future completely unpredictable'. Maybe it is my 8 years of undergraduate and graduate work in engineering schools that puts me at a disadvantage to accept a statement like the one above. But to me the statement is the same as saying `how fast you can accelerate your car doesn't matter but how much you can increase its speed does'. Don't they both mean the same? If you can accelerate your car very well, you can generally also achieve a high speed because of the acceleration. Right there, I became leery of what the book was going to present because I was afraid that one has to leave reality at the door and be prepared for an amazing exercise of imagination where you can go to the moon and back in 30 seconds by spending just a couple of dollars. <br />My fears then came true as I forced myself to read through the book to validate or invalidate my initial concerns. I ended up finding these flights of fantasy throughout the book now that I had my practical hat on and questioned almost every statement the authors made. Enough of the negative stuff about the book as I generally like to stay with positive reviews. So let's move on to the positive aspects of the book.<br />Now, the good stuff - there are two very important concepts in the book that are valuable to the success of any business in the present and the future. These are the concepts of `Market Events' and `Customer Events'. A Market Event is defined as `the work of the enterprise immediately and profitably performed to seize an unexpected market opportunity'. For example - when an employee at Kinko's noticed that they had some slow times during Christmas when everyone was out shopping and came up with the idea of using their laminating presses to create custom calendars with photos from customers for a good price. This has now become a leading profit making idea around the world. This would be a market event starting with the employee noticing the market opportunity. There is a similar definition for the Customer Event that is defined as `the work of the enterprise immediately and profitably performed to satisfy a unique, single customer demand'. For example -  when a corporate customer calls Dell to order some computer equipment, the customer service rep works with the customer to better define the exact need and moves the enterprise to fill that individual customer need all the way from ordering the parts from the supplier for this particular customer's needs to making sure the price is right. <br />I found the information on pages 53 and 69 titled `The Elements of Market Events' and `The Elements of Customer Events' very informative and useful. There are other valuable pieces of information throughout the book and I am still working through the book to find all of them. It is hard work as the good information is mixed with the material put in there to inspire the reader (which I find very bothersome because of the transparency of these statements).<br />Overall, this is a book worth skimming through (especially if you able to buy this at bargain price) to see if it suits your style of reading (and if you can ignore some of the inconsistencies). Some of the other reviewers of this book did a fantastic job of summarizing what's in the book so I decided not to focus on that as I would end up repeating what has already been done perfectly. Hence my goal in this review was to point out some of the problems with this book and warnthe reader to put on a more realistic hat when reading this book. I hope this was helpful. Good luck!	2003-08-09
US	49111865	R1AGRV8YQAPALJ	0671657135	660942558	The Society of Mind	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A must-read if you are interested in how the mind works.	The fundamental assumption underlying the principles in the book is that the mind is a result of many small and independent pieces that act in a predictable way and CANNOT think for themselves - but that the result (the mind) CAN think. Of course, the title 'The Society of the Mind' is not a good fit to the ideas in the book because Society and its parts (individual minds) can BOTH think. <br />But leaving these kind of simple inconsistencies and incongruencies (I discovered at least a couple after some deep thinking) to the side, this book makes for an absolutely fascinating read if you are interested in the subject of how the mind works. The approach is very unique, and the ideas are thought provoking. There are 270 components in the book grouped into 30 chapters and each component takes up 1-2 pages to explain the idea and some basic logic supporting the idea presented in that component. The book has 339 pages in case you are wondering (including the index).<br />The format of the book makes it very convenient to pick up the book once in a while and read 5-6 ideas in a 15 minute sitting. Of course, to get the most benefit from the book, you have to read one chapter at a time as each chapter contains ideas that are interconnected. The best approach would be to finish reading the book in 2 or 3 sittings so you can connect all the ideas. The author does warn you at the beginning that there are a lot of cross-connections between the different ideas that you may miss. You have to take this advice into consideration and pay extra attention to connecting the ideas in order to get the real theory that the author is trying to communicate. He never actually explains the theory in a nutshell. He leaves it to the reader to come to some conclusions that hopefully will match the author's theory.<br />Marvin Minsky cofounded the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT and this book gets accolades from some very well known and popular figures like Douglas Hofstadter, Michael Crichton, and Gene Roddenberry.<br />The book has numerous thought experiments that are fun to do! There are also references made to the works of some very eminent scientists and thinkers. The best part about the book is the simplicity of Dr. Minsky's theory on how the Mind works. The second best part about the book is the really elegant way he explains his theory.<br />The first downside to the book - the actual theory is never explained explicitly but contained implicitly in the different ideas presented throughout the book. The second downside to the book - there isn't clear logic backing some of the ideas and you have to take the author's word for it. <br />My opinion in a nutshell - this is a book definitely worth buying for your personal book collection. I have thoroughly enjoyed this book for several years now and even though I personally disagree with some of the ideas in the book (you may quickly find yourself feeling the same way), I believe that it is a beautiful work. Enjoy reading this book, you won't regret the time or the few dollars spent.	2003-08-09
US	49111865	RN2G0NM5ZHCCF	0471180416	548401216	Overdrive: Bill Gates and the Race to Control Cyberspace	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Have to read this book to know more about Bill Gates.	This is one of the best written books out there on Bill Gates and the reason seems to be the journalistic background of the author that is so well suited for this kind of biographical account. The book has numerous real life stories of not just Gates but other legends as well like Marc Andreessen. Like me, you may also find that it is hard to put this book down once you pick it up and start reading it (almost on any page, any chapter).<br />If you are in the Information Technology field, you will no doubt thoroughly enjoy this book but it isn't written just for someone knowledgeable in computers. Almost anyone can read this book with little difficulty as the focus is not on technology terms but on the lives behind the technology and the Internet revolution. After reading this book, you will definitely catch up on the events of the last 15 years or so that have changed the world into one filled with computers and the Internet everywhere. <br />The paper used in the hard cover edition of this book feels strange to the touch and is not the normal paper you would find in most books. It feels more like cheap paper with a strange white color and the font used throughout looks like one of the generic fonts from the eighties. This alone discouraged me from reading this book for the first few months after I had bought it. But when I finally decided to read it, I instantly moved it to the top of my reading list. <br />If you are a budding entrepreneur wanting to topple Bill Gates' empire with some revolutionary idea that you are building in your garage or apartment, you HAVE to read this book. It is inspirational as it gets the hair on the back of your neck to stand up for most of the book and it gives you raw data to analyze and strategize how to succeed in this highly competitive market place. <br />The same author also wrote `Hard Drive' which was a best seller prior to `Overdrive' and  I plan on reading `Hard Drive' next as I am so impressed by `Overdrive'. The thing thatreally got me hooked on this book is the author's writing style where he keeps your attention the WHOLE time. He does it by hooking into your emotions as evidenced by his account of Bill Gates' visit to Orlando, Florida in 1993 where he gets stuck in a traffic jam. As the author reveals the cause of the traffic jam (everyone from around 100 miles all going to the Sheraton hotel to listen to Bill Gates talk) you can't help but chuckle at the hilarious situation Bill is in (since he is the cause). The book is full of several such accounts where you can't stop reading!<br />Working on a startup company myself, I was looking around for biographical books on successful entrepreneurs to get some ideas and informaiton that I can analyze for myself and find some patterns. I then came across a few books focused on Bill Gates (this being the best) all of which I purchased immediately. I have not been disappointed. This book is headed for my long term collection. I hope that you too enjoy this book!	2003-08-09
US	49111865	R1GQKNYG7TLTNO	0471180416	548401216	Overdrive: Bill Gates and the Race to Control Cyberspace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Have to read this book to know more about Bill Gates.	This is one of the best written books out there on Bill Gates and the reason seems to be the journalistic background of the author that is so well suited for this kind of biographical account. The book has numerous real life stories of not just Gates but other legends as well like Marc Andreessen. Like me, you may also find that it is hard to put this book down once you pick it up and start reading it (almost on any page, any chapter).<br />If you are in the Information Technology field, you will no doubt thoroughly enjoy this book but it isn't written just for someone knowledgeable in computers. Almost anyone can read this book with little difficulty as the focus is not on technology terms but on the lives behind the technology and the Internet revolution. After reading this book, you will definitely catch up on the events of the last 15 years or so that have changed the world into one filled with computers and the Internet everywhere. <br />The paper used in the hard cover edition of this book feels strange to the touch and is not the normal paper you would find in most books. It feels more like cheap paper with a strange white color and the font used throughout looks like one of the generic fonts from the eighties. This alone discouraged me from reading this book for the first few months after I had bought it. But when I finally decided to read it, I instantly moved it to the top of my reading list. <br />If you are a budding entrepreneur wanting to topple Bill Gates' empire with some revolutionary idea that you are building in your garage or apartment, you HAVE to read this book. It is inspirational as it gets the hair on the back of your neck to stand up for most of the book and it gives you raw data to analyze and strategize how to succeed in this highly competitive market place. <br />The same author also wrote `Hard Drive' which was a best seller prior to `Overdrive' and  I plan on reading `Hard Drive' next as I am so impressed by `Overdrive'. The thing thatreally got me hooked on this book is the author's writing style where he keeps your attention the WHOLE time. He does it by hooking into your emotions as evidenced by his account of Bill Gates' visit to Orlando, Florida in 1993 where he gets stuck in a traffic jam. As the author reveals the cause of the traffic jam (everyone from around 100 miles all going to the Sheraton hotel to listen to Bill Gates talk) you can't help but chuckle at the hilarious situation Bill is in (since he is the cause). The book is full of several such accounts where you can't stop reading!<br />Working on a startup company myself, I was looking around for biographical books on successful entrepreneurs to get some ideas and informaiton that I can analyze for myself and find some patterns. I then came across a few books focused on Bill Gates (this being the best) all of which I purchased immediately. I have not been disappointed. This book is headed for my long term collection. I hope that you too enjoy this book!	2003-08-09
US	49111865	RD6UUPXK9DN0Y	1591840007	961149663	Blindsided: A Manager's Guide to Catastrophic Incidents in the Workplace	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Helps prepare your company to handle unforeseen disasters.	This is a very unique and practical book with a singular purpose - to help you answer the question from a workplace preparedness perspective: `What should your company do when something highly unexpected happens - like the September 11 attacks or a Hurricane?'<br />This book is full of practical advice that is split into two parts. The first part deals with Response and the second part deals with Preparedness. None of us imagines that something bad could happen at our workplace but everyday it happens in somebody's workplace. So why can't it happen in yours? And the answer is that it can happen anywhere so it really helps to be prepared. <br />As you read the book, you will encounter lists after lists of a step by step approach to a particular issue associated with disasters at your workplace. For example - pages 30 to 33 address how to immediately respond to such a disastrous event with a checklist of descriptions followed by a giant checklist of all the actions you need to take. <br />I was at first hesitant to read this book as I didn't really see it as something requiring my immediate attention but if I waited till I needed this book, it would be too late. So I decided to finally pick up this book and started skimming it. That's when I realized that one can't afford to wait to read a book of this nature. You are better off reading it right away so you don't have to scramble to find it when you really need it!<br />This book is about being prepared so if you own a business or manage a workplace this book is necessary reading. The author is an experienced Crisis Management professional that has helped businesses handle many high profile disasters like the World Trade Center bombing in 1993 and Hurricane Andrew. So the information is coming from a highly credible source who now has over a 1,000 clients that utilize his services.	2003-08-09
US	49111865	R1EQVBZTI44YL5	B0000645WP	657208722	The Clickable Corporation: Successful Strategies for Capturing the Internet Advantage	Books	4	0	0	N	N	8 Simple Principles to follow on your Internet site.	This is a very simple book - it has less than 170 pages with 9 chapters covering 8 basic principles that any Internet site needs to follow in order to succeed. Of course, these are necessary but not sufficient principles. The authors of this book came up with these 8 principles after studying 25 well known companies (like FedEx, Northwest Airlines, Peapod, etc.).  <br />The first chapter is just to get you interested, motivated, and primed for the rest of the book. The authors examine a few popular misconceptions (they are misconceptions based on the authors' opinions, not necessarily reality) that one may have about the Internet - like 'Internet customers are vulnerable to theft'. This is no longer a misconception, it is a reality for the many Internet customers whose credit card numbers have been stolen on the Internet as evidenced by some recent high-profile Internet crimes. After addressing the so-called misconceptions, the authors then briefly discuss the 8 principles in the rest of the book.<br />The 8 basic principles are that you have to provide - INFORMATION, CHOICE, CONVENIENCE, CUSTOMIZATION, SAVINGS, COMMUNITY, ENTERTAINMENT, and TRUST. Now that we have all seen these basic principles work for various successful websites, I don't think anyone would argue that these principles are wrong. It was refreshing to read these principles in the context of how they were used by the 25 companies. <br />I had to ignore the fact that the authors of the book were part of the now defunct Arthur Andersen. The book's website is no longer functional. This may not have anything to do with the book not following its own principles but possibly everything to do with the now infamous Arthur Andersen and Enron scandal. The book's website was tied to Arthur Andersen's website so when the latter's website was taken down, the book's website automatically came down with it. It's a pity because I would have liked to see what the site contained and if it followed the principles presented in the book. <br />When I purchased a copy of this book, it was a bargain book at Amazon and I have not regretted the purchase. At a bare minimum, I use the principles in the book as a sanity check when maintaining my various websites. I would definitely recommend buying this book if it is still being offered at a bargain price. Enjoy this simple read!	2003-08-09
US	49111865	R18VXQX4PUG904	0061007129	409197252	Kane & Abel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the few fiction books that you WON'T put down.	Jeffrey Archer has written many international best sellers and this is one of his best works followed by the sequel to this book - 'The Prodigal Daughter'. Jeffrey Archer himself has quite an impressive background in real life. In 1969, he became the youngest member of the House of Commons in United Kingdom. <br />This particular book could have been based on a true story as it is mentioned at the beginning of the book that this book was made possible due to two men whose identities cannot be revealed.<br />The story - is about two men William Kane and Abel Rosnovski who come from opposite backgrounds and make it big in America. Kane is born and raised in a wealthy banking family while Abel is a poor Polish immigrant that survives extreme hardship before ending up in America. Due to his own ability and his background in the banking industry, Kane makes becomes a powerful force in that industry while Abel through his sheer determination and ruthless attitude builds an empire in the hotel industry. <br />Unfortunately, due to a misunderstanding caused by a negative encounter at the beginning of their careers, they become sworn enemies and it seems like nothing can change it. Even when Kane's son and Abel's daughter fall in love, get married, and have a child, it doesn't seem to influence these two men to overcome their intense hatred for each other.<br />This book is extremely well written and Jeffrey Archer has a way of telling a story where you can't stop reading till you reach the end. The vocabulary is not that difficult but the author uses his extraordinary writing style to tell the story as if you are right there where it's all happening.  <br />It has been a common experience among Jeffrey Archer fans that they literally can't put this book down till they get to the end. The other common experience is that Jeffrey Archer fans read this book again and again every few years and it still keeps their interest. It is true in my own case also where this was the onlyfiction book in my life that kept me awake till 6 a.m. in the morning when I started reading at 10 p.m. the previous night. I was a teenager and got in trouble with my Mom for staying up all night to read this book (even though it was my summer vacation). <br />I recently read this book and felt the same sense of awe and inspiration that I did almost 20 years back when I first read the book. I have read it a couple more times in these 20 years and it is always the same amazing experience. That's why I decided to spend a few minutes and write this review to share my experiences with others.<br />If there is one new fiction author whose books you want to try, you won't regret picking Jeffrey Archer. The best book to start with is this one - Kane and Abel. After this book, the pleasure continues if you read the sequel which is equally engrossing 'The Prodigal Daughter'. The perfect book to read on a vacation but not on a plane as you would regret not being to finish it. Enjoy!	2003-08-08
US	49111865	R2562ON5EG379O	074320560X	675517830	The Rule of Three: Surviving and Thriving in Competitive Markets	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The best tool to predict a company's future in this economy.	The future looks very uncertain to all of us - no matter what company we are in: big or small, none of us has been spared from this mass anxiety that started in 2001. The old saying 'what goes up must come down' became true after 10 years of the best boom time in America. But will 'things have to eventually turn around' come true? Of course it will, but it would seem that in the process a lot of companies will not survive (as has already been witnessed in the last 2 years). So rather than worrying about when things will turn around, it may be more prudent to focus on figuring out which companies will survive these extremely difficult and trying times. <br />The book is very deep and I am still in the process of digesting all the material. But I was so moved by the very powerful and sound theory presented in the book that I wanted to share my views immediately and hence this review. So bear with me as the terms I use aren't exactly the ones used in the book.  I am using them to help me communicate these ideas faster and more effectively.<br />This book offers some incredible insight into the fundamental way in which businesses and consumer markets interact. And in the process it provides vital clues that could be used to assess what companies will survive. There are only 8 chapters in this book and a conclusion along with 3 appendices. The first chapter gives some preliminary information on the mechanisms by which consumer markets in free market economies force efficiency increases in the businesses involved. The second chapter addresses the fundamental Rule of Three and why eventually after the dust settles, there can only be three left in an industry - no more and no less.<br />Chapter 3 broadly categorizes all companies into either Specialists or Generalists and futher defines them into five groups - Full-line Generalists, Portfolio Generalists, Product Specialists, Market Specialists, and Super Nichers. This chapter is especially important as it describes in great detail several of the primary chateristics of both Generalists and Specialists. This is important because it later ties into the successful strategies that must be adopted in order to survive difficult economic times. Chapter 4 shows how companies can get in serious trouble and eventually not survive the difficult times. The authors call this 'The Ditch'. <br />I wasn't too interested in Chapter 5 which addresses Globalization and the Rule of Three. I still forced myself to read this chapter as I didn't want to miss anything that is used in later chapters. But Chapter 6 and 7 are the ones that everyone has to read! This is where all the secrets lie - the successful strategies one must follow in order to survive this all powerful Rule of Three. Chapter 6 is relevant to the Generalist companies and Chapter 7 is for Specialist companies. <br />Finally, Chapter 8 introduces the subject of market disruptions - simply speaking how some discontinuous changes in the marketplace (new technologies that can do the same things faster, better, and cheaper - like the Internet) can put someone at immediate risk of failing due to the enormous investment they may already have in terms of time and money in the old technologies. <br />The authors' conclusion follows these 8 chapters. This is again extremely important as it contains 22 general rules (just a few lines each) that you can't ignore if you are trying to predict where your company future lies. The appendices contain some very good research. For example - the three survivors in all the major industries across the world. As can be expected of a book written by two Ph.D's, there is a very complete reference section at the end of the book where you can check and verify the source data.<br />There are so many aspects to making a business successful and there are so many books out there on the subject that it is easy to overlook such a critical book as this one. I was fortunate enough to run into this book as a result of my frenzied After Christmas bargain shopping at Amazon where I RANDOMLY selected 30-40 books that were all priced at just a few dollars thinking I can't go wrong even if I find one good book out of three (since the bargain price was a third of the original price). After that it sat on my bookshelf till I recently decided to skim through a few pages of the book. That's when it struck me that this is a landmark book and absolutely essential in predicting the future. I immediately put this book at the top of my reading list and have been devouring it ever since. I consider myself very lucky to find this treasure map of a book. Well, it would be a treasure map only if you are trying to figure out which company is going to survive. Otherwise, you can conveniently skip this book.	2003-08-03
US	49111865	R13RRA70VMVM6	0823005380	186472456	Big Book of Logos	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Logo ideas for everyone - designers to small businesses.	This book has 2,500 of the best logos done by designers from all across America and nothing else. This book was put together so it could become a compendium of logos that one can use to see different styles and techniques and jump start their own creative juices. The book is full color and the only way to navigate the book is through the Index. There is no table of contents. Each page has a few logos with credit given to each the designers at the bottom of the page in very small print. <br />Every few pages, there is a full page devoted to just one company logo. But the cool part is that this full page has pictures of the logo in action - whether it is on the product packaging, bill board, or store front sign. This is very helpful as it gives you a context to judge the power of the logo. Just a graphics image against a white page background means you need to use your imagination trying to picture how the logo's going to look in its intended use.<br />Whether you are a designer or a small business owner that wants to get a logo done through a designer, this book is an invaluable tool. If you are a designer, you can use it to get your creative juices to flow or just admire the work done by others for inspirational reasons. If you are a small business owner, you can use it to work with your logo designer. You can point out some of the logos and just say 'I like these' and that gives the designer a place to start in creating your logo. This avoids a lot of wasted work as you are both trying to figure out what you like and what best represents your business image.<br />When I first started doing research on good logo design books, I was confused by the number of logo books by this author. The names are a little misleading when you try to figure out which one is the more recent version. I finally decided to use the publication date for this purpose and this book happens to be the latest (published in May 2003). We recently started offering Corporate Identity Management services to small businesses through our company and we are finding that this book is an invaluable tool in communicating with our clients. Especially if our clients are in another city, we just ask them to get a copy of this book before starting the project. <br />Even if you aren't a designer or someone looking for design services, this book is still fun to flip through if you are the creative type. The price is just phenomenally low for something of this high quality (I am trying to imagine the price of printing along considering it's full color). If you have to even remotely work with logos, just get the book. It's a decision that I haven't regretted even for a second. Have fun!	2003-08-03
US	49111865	R1JCKQXRJ7DP2C	0619035285	38608287	Information Technology Project Management, Second Edition	Books	5	54	57	N	N	A Basic to Intermediate Textbook on IT Project Management.	As one can guess from the price, this book is geared to be used as a text book in a University setting. But almost anyone will find this book extremely useful because the book occupies a unique niche in the market on Project Management books. <br />There are several project management books out in the market that mostly fall into the following categories - General Project Management, Advanced Project Management, PMP Exam Preparation, and PM Software books. The problem I have had with these books is that there are very few that address IT Project Management and even fewer that use Case Studies throughout. I am in IT Project Management and absolutely require Case Studies to learn any subject thoroughly. Especially a practical subject like Project Management.<br />This book is perfect for an IT Project Manager because it - covers basic project principles, incorporates the IT view on every topic, has plenty of exercises to prepare for a PM exam (like the PMP or CompTIA's ITProject+), has a very decent section on using Microsoft Project 2000, a 120 day trial version of MS Project 2000 software in case you don't have it, plenty of mini case studies, a real-world running case study of the Northwest Airlines' ResNet project, and an excellent reference list at the end of each chapter. It is clear that the book was aimed at being the perfect reference for any IT Project Manager. <br />The only downside of this book is that it is very light on all the topics and does not address any advanced topics. But that would have doubled the number of pages in the book and potential been a turn-off to anyone new to the subject. It might not have appealed to an Intermediate level Project Manager either. So I don't feel that this is such a big downside and is actually a positive.<br />After obtaining my PMP, I came across this book when I was given the opportunity to teach Project Management Part-Time on a need basis at the Austin Community College. They use this book as the required textbook for their comprehensive IT Project Management class aimed at those new to the field or those looking to gain a deeper knowledge of IT Project Management. I am glad I received a free copy of this book as I would have normally passed it up as too basic a book (since I already have my PMP). But I now realize that I will benefit tremendously by doing all the exercises in the book and strengthen/deepen my understanding of several Project Management concepts. So my immediate future is going to involve devouring this book.<br />I hope you too benefit from this book and enjoy using it for any one of the many purposes!	2003-08-02
US	49111865	R5YXIY1AD2KRM	1590590279	269215422	Programming the Web with Visual Basic .NET	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Working knowledge of ASP.NET, VB.NET (Web) and ADO.NET.	This book is aimed at teaching someone who is ALREADY exposed to VB.NET how to create database driven Websites using VB.NET, ASP.NET, and ADO.NET. It takes a database neutral approach and you could use almost any database in using this book. If you are new to VB.NET but have a good understanding of another programming language, you will still be able to follow this book.<br />The book does not skip any steps in explaining how to use these three technologies on a Web project. It is very detailed in its explanations and has a lot of sample code that works! You have to download this sample code from their website (which is a good thing as you will have code that has been thoroughly debugged). Any problems I had using the code in this book had to do with Visual Studio.NET 2003 related problems. But once I fixed those issues, I had no trouble using the sample code. A lot of examples can be used immediately in almost any Web project you may be currently working on. <br />In the initial stages of learning these technologies, I was lucky enough to find this book and spent a lot of time reading THIS book only and to date, I have covered more than 70% of the book. I couldn't skip any sections as they are so well written and well connected (the various topics). This type of thorough treatment of a subject in the IT world is rare and it got me thinking if it is to do with the authors or the publisher. I have already decided to check out more books by the publisher first. <br />The thing I like the most about this book is the excellent explanations they give on how ASP.NET, VB.NET, and ADO.NET really work. They are very detailed and the explanations make sense! That combined with the practical nature of this book (tons of code) make it a very valuable find. By the time you are done with this book, you should have no trouble creating a database driven website. You still need 'ASP.NET Developer's Cookbook' by The ASP Alliance to create a complex website. But this book will give you the confidence you need to consider yourself a decent web developer in using .NET technologies. You can then go to the next level.<br />If you are frustrated trying to find a good book on using VB.NET to design websites, you won't be disappointed with this book. I found only a few books on .NET that I really like and this book made the Top 3 of that list. Enjoy using this book to master ASP.NET, VB.NET, and ADO.NET for the Web!	2003-08-02
US	49111865	RUOQLMLKT7HU0	0735619034	983896701	Programming Microsoft ASP.NET (Developer Reference)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Excellent reference for Intermediate/Advanced users.	This book is the perfect reference for any Intermediate/Advanced ASP.NET programmer. It may not be as helpful if you are a beginner because the coverage is too wide and too deep to keep the interest of a beginner. But it is a must-have as a desk reference when you get past the beginner stage. <br />We looked at many books on the general subject of .NET and the specific subjects of VB.NET, ASP.NET, and ADO.NET to learn how to successfully create Web Applications that users love. There are a lot of books out there on .NET that are more confusing than helpful. And most books - just touch the basics, don't give detailed explanations, or don't have sample code that works. There are a few exceptions and this book is one of them. It doesn't have any of the above mentioned problems.<br />What is most impressive about this book is the readability of the material. If you are interested in the details of how something works in ASP.NET, you will find that once you pick up this book and start reading it, it is difficult to put it down. The explanations are clear, concise, yet detailed and the different topics are all very neatly interconnected. <br />If your primary interest is in finding a book with code to modify for your own project situation, this is NOT the book. There are other excellent books for that purpose. 'ASP.NET Developer's Cookbook' by The ASP Alliance is one that we prefer(despite most claims, the code in this book does work after you find workarounds to Visual Studio .NET problems first). <br />The book being reviewed here can be best used for accomplishing the purpose of gaining a COMPLETE working knowledge of ASP.NET. It will obviously take many months of dedicated effort (at least 10-15 hours a week) to master this subject. And there isn't a better book in the market that is so effective in the long run. This is the preferred Desk Reference that all of us use at our company.<br />One more thing - doing a price comparison, we found that this book also offers the best value since it's priced around the same range as most ASP.NET books but covers the subject end to end while the others only addres a few topics. The high price of .NET books has been a disappointment to us especially due to their general low quality.<br />Enjoy this complete desk reference to programming in ASP.NET! You will really see the return in a few months.	2003-08-02
US	49111865	R12V3M6EHVOCK5	0672325241	949268326	ASP.NET Developer's Cookbook	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Currently, the most PRACTICAL book on ASP.NET in the market.	After carefully following the launch of .NET over the last 2 years, this is the first year that we at our company decided to start developing applications using .NET for clients. After going through all the books out there that cover the same basic topics giving you very little extra knowledge (guess - 70% of books in the market cover the same topics in the same inadequate fashion), I ran across 4-5 books that take you to the next level. This book takes you to the highest level possible in ASP.NET. <br />How does this book help you in taking you to the highest level of expertise as an ASP.NET developer? After mastering the basic concepts and trying to design and develop some basic database driven websites, you will quickly understand the limitations of ASP.NET as it stands right now. The .NET framework comes with all the namespaces, classes with methods and properties you can imagine but you still have to code a lot of event handlers before you can accomplish anything beyond the most basic website. And you also have to write a lot of code to connect different classes and eventually integrate everything. At this point, you realize that it would be great to have access to such code without having to write so many of these event handlers or integration code yourself. That's where this book comes in. It is meant for the advanced user and it doesn't spend any time describing any of the basic concepts. It just goes straight to addressing 210 different practical problems you may be faced with. Each recipe is very simple - there is a very short description of the problem (usually 1-2 lines), a description of the technique to apply, the working code, and some very helpful comments on the topic (1-2 paragraphs). These 210 recipes should cover a majority of the problems (maybe 60%) you are likely to encounter when doing ASP.NET programming. You can download all the source code from The ASP Alliance's website.<br />There have been some complaints that the code doesn't work. After encountering the same problem, we realized that most of these problems trace back to the unpredictable nature of Visual Studio .NET 2003 (that's the version we are using on a Windows Server 2003 machine). We haven't tried all the recipes yet but the ones we tried haven't had anything majorly wrong with the code. Sure, we had to customize it for the particular application we were writing and we did spend a lot of time setting up the Visual Studio .NET 2003 environment to work right with our Windows 2003 Server OS. But we actually didn't have to wrestle with incorrect code from this book. <br />If you have reached the stage where you are ready to just find code snippets that fit different situations and you are tired of writing tons of event handlers (we are), grab a copy of this book. It also happens to be one of the most inexpensive book in the market. It is kind of surprising that the most valuable book is also the most inexpensive. <br />In a nutshell, after buying this book I have been able to handle our .NET projects with peace of mind. I was quite stressed out before I found this book. I hope you benefit from this book too. Good luck!	2003-08-02
US	49111865	R178P651J033U9	1890774197	962052402	Murach's VB.NET Database Programming with ADO.NET	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Very Practical Book truly geared towards learning.	There are very few publishers in the IT world that follow the approach taken by the Murach's series to teach. All the left hand side pages of this book are theory and explanations and all the right hand side pages of this book are code/explanations. It is a new and unique approach that seems to work. It is clear when you read the book that the authors are definitely geared towards teaching the subject and making it as easy as possible for you to learn. This is obvious even in the way things are explained where the authors make no assumptions and start from scratch in explaining everything in great detail. This is an excellent approach to teach beginners.<br />The book is split into two parts - using VB.NET to build desktop applications and using VB.NET to build web applications. But for both sections, it MAINLY addresses the issue of connecting to databases through ADO.NET. And if you are looking at learning how to develop just web applications, you are forced to learn how to build desktop applications first. The reason for this is that the book starts with the desktop applications before proceding to the web applications and it doesn't repeat the knowledge presented in the earlier chapters. So you can't start directly reading the web development chapters. But we found that it isn't that great an inconvenience. <br />If you are in a rush, you are better off looking at another book in the market - 'Programming the Web with Visual Basic.NET' by Torkelson, et al. This book only addresses how to develop web applications using VB.NET and it does an equally fantastic job at teaching if not better. It also goes a lot deeper into the subject. This other book does does claim to be only for Intermediate/Advanced users though we believe that if you are an experienced programmer but just new to VB.NET, you should be okay.<br />The book being reviewed here does have a website where you can download the sample code and we have been able to successfully use a lot of the code withvery few problems in implementing the code. There are almost no negatives to this book with the exception that it isn't for an advanced user and it forces you to learn how to build desktop applications first. Everything it addresses, it does a fantastic job but it does leave out the very advanced topics.<br />We thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and wanted to share this valuable find with others (not just this book but also other books by the Murach's series). We hope you too enjoy learning from this book as much as we did. Our copy will continue to be used for a long time to come to give you an indication of how much we like this book. Good luck!	2003-08-01
US	49111865	RIC7GUNPHDMEH	0672325012	108972968	ASP.NET Data Web Controls Kick Start	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Excellent and In-Depth Intro for beginners on Web Controls.	If you are trying to learn how to use ASP.NET to create Web Forms, you will find several books that are a good place to start. But when you try to implement Web Controls like the Repeater, Data List, and Data Grid (the book mainly covers these three topics in detail), you will find that most of these books don't go very deep. In fact, they just touch the basics. This book is the only exception we found.<br />What are these three Web Controls? Imagine a typical website where someone wants to search a database through a browser interface, like a book database. They search for ASP.NET books and the browser displays the 30 books on the subject, 10 rows to a page. The user also needs to select only a few of these books to narrow down the list and then maybe place an order for 3 of the final list. This involves using Web Controls that can accomplish this. In this particular case, the favored Web Control may be the Data Grid due to its inherent support of pagination (where the results are split into multiple pages with 10 rows to a page or whatever number of rows you want per page). That's what you need these Web Controls for.<br />Once you are far enough into using ASP.NET to create dynamic database driven websites, you will need an in-depth introduction to these three very important Web Controls - Repeater, Data List, and Data Grid. That's where this book comes in. It does an excellent job of going into the intricacies of these three Web Controls. As a beginner, you absolutely need this book to go to the next level in website development. <br />But this book has some limitations. Even though it is great to use the book and get to the next level of website development as a beginner, you will quickly run into problems. When you try to create a real live website that is complex and destined for production, you will find that this book is not adequate. <br />Simple example - let's use the above example of accessing a book database through a browser. As mentioned, you will most likely need to use the Data Grid Web Control to display rows of data in the browser for your user to take some action on this data. It is normal to expect many rows to be displayed in the browser with a whole column full of check boxes that the user can select to narrow down the selection. And click on some button to take a specific action like buy the books that are checked. So the question for you as a web designer would be - how do I insert this extra column of checkboxes with the rows full of data? And how do I link the buy action associated with the button click to the Data Grid that is indirectly connected to the database that needs to be updated? <br />Well, the Data Grid Web Control only has Select, Edit (Update &amp; Cancel), and Hyperlink, as choices when creating the control using a tool like Visual Studio. To insert a column full of check boxes, you need to write a custom control (based on CheckBoxList) that integrates neatly into the Data Grid Web Control supported by ASP.NET. And you need to write the event handlers that respond on the application side when people click on the buy buttons next to the check boxes. The hard part being the event handlers you write need to connect the check boxes and the buy action the user wants to initiate. <br />The book spends a few pages towards the end of book explaining how you could accomplish something like what is described above. At this point, it becomes a theoretical text book with very little direction on how to practically implement it. It would have been wonderful if the book finished the excellent job it started by having another 50 pages covering these topics that are absolutely essential.<br />Unfortunately, there are almost no other books in the market that reach the level of depth on Web Controls that this book reaches. So you can almost forget about trying to find a book that goes deeper addressing the issues above. There IS one book that actually publishes all the code you need to get to this nextlevel but lacks in explanation. There have been complaints that the code in the book doesn't work. We realized that in many cases, the code doesn't work because of problems on the Visual Studio side of things and when we found some workarounds to overcome the VS.NET problems, we were able to make most of the code in this book work. That book is 'ASP.NET Developer's Cookbook' by The ASP Alliance. So if you get to the Intermediate/Advanced level in using ASP.NET, you can use these two books to figure out how to accomplish the desired results. <br />Right now, there isn't much out there that you can readily use to accomplish your website goals. Even though there are a ton of books published, they don't adequately address the practical issues. But the next release of ASP.NET is believed to change al this. So we'll keep our fingers crossed till then. In the meanwhile, good luck with your own real world .NET implementations and we hope that the results of our experiences we shared in this review are helpful.	2003-08-01
US	49111865	R1CPEJVJ9U0MBO	0201799286	744141750	Macromedia Fireworks MX: Training from the Source	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A beginner's book made as cryptic as possible.	Macromedia's Fireworks MX is a terrific tool to do graphics and much more for the Web. But to find a book that helps you learn this great tool is a difficult job if you are a BEGINNER. <br />For an intermediate to advanced user who has already used other Graphics tools from Adobe or used previous versions of Macromedia's Fireworks, this book may suffice in getting started and creating some nice graphics. I am giving the book the benefit of doubt as I am NOT an advanced user and can't strike the book down without positive proof. <br />So why is this book so difficult to learn from (for a beginner)? I found two main reasons - <br />The first is that the book seems to seriously omit some important steps that a beginner is definitely not going to know about. You can imagine the disastrous results that follow - frustration to name one.<br />The second is that the writing style is very difficult to follow. One has to really concentrate in trying to figure out what the author is saying and even then there are no guarantees. <br />My basic experiences with this book in a nutshell - I was cropping some images and picked up the book to see if I can read a few chapters to learn how to use the Cropping tool and the Lasso tool. I easily succeeded in using the Cropping tool after reading the page a second time, but I had a difficult time using the Lasso tool by just following the instructions. I eventually got it right but these are some of the simplest actions a User performs in a Graphics package like Fireworks MX and it shouldn't have been that difficult for a book to explain. <br />What choices does one have? Unfortunately, not many. I am continuing my search for a better book and I will write a review on it when I find one. In the meanwhile, I feel stuck having to rely on this difficult book. <br />One last piece of advice, do read a general book on designing web graphics before learning a specific Graphics package. A great example is 'Designing Web Graphics' by Lynda Weinman. It is an excellent book to read before learning how to use a Graphics tool like Fireworks MX. There is a tremendous amount of wisdom in this book that beginners can't ignore. It is a book I see myself referring for a long time to come. Good luck!	2003-07-21
US	49111865	RSKRTQX14Y0RB	0471225789	581833953	Project Management Case Studies	Books	4	83	83	N	N	Long awaited book. Most useful if you are an experienced PM.	Classes that use Case studies seem to be common at the Harvard Business School but apparently not in the Project Management world. This is a long awaited book containing Case Studies from a respected author and Project Management guru. A detailed analysis of the Pros and Cons of this book follows:<br />First, a summary of what is contained in the book - 437 pages objectively documenting 68 real life Case Studies spanning the last 20 to 30 years and 1 very neat Time Management exercise at the end. The Case Studies are typically 3-4 pages long with a couple that are 40-50 pages long and a few that are only 1 page long. The Case Studies are roughly divided into 16 Chapters that don't necessarily follow the Process Groups or Knowledge Areas in the PMBOK Guide (PMI). Example chapter names are 'Negotiating for Resources', 'Project Estimating', and 'Project Planning'. Each chapter starts with a 1 page summary of the author's opinion on that topic - no more, no less! The Case Studies themselves sound like factual description of what happened with absolutely no judgment or analysis following any of the Case Studies.<br />Since I like to end a review on a good note, the CONS first - the blurb on the back of the book makes three claims out of which two are clearly suspect. The claim regarding the Case Studies covering a wide range of industries is definitely true. The claim regarding 'follows and supports preparation for the PMP certification exam' is not supported by the content in the book. The only way this claim would come true is if you attended a class led by a very competent instructor that can glean the relevant points from these Case Studies and present what you need to pass the PMP. The Instructor's manual is ONLY available through the publisher directly if you represent a University teaching Project Management curriculum. The third claim is regarding the book presenting the best practices and pitfalls of PM implementations in the real world. For this claim to be true, one would expect discussions of the Case Studies presented in the book by the author and a summary of lessons learned so you can understand what these best practices and pitfalls are. Without the best practices and pitfalls EXPLICITLY stated, how do you know for sure what they are? Isn't the assumption that you don't know them, one of the reasons for reading the book? Anyway, this does not happen anywhere in the book except very briefly and indirectly at the beginning of each of the 16 chapters (1 page per chapter).<br />The language used is sometimes hard to interpret. I was thrown off track quite a few times by some ambiguous statements and I had to read them carefully a second time to interpret them correctly. I have not noticed this problem with other Kerzner books. There are also quite a few typos and grammatical errors that may be common for a First Edition.<br />The last CON - I really wish the book had an extra 200-300 pages of Kerzner's interpretations of these Case Studies and his opinions of how things should have been handled. I would have paid three to five times the price of this book if that had been included. Oh, well. I will sign up for one of his classes.<br />Okay, the PROS - there aren't many books on Project Management that have real world Case Studies. And definitely not as valuable as the ones presented in this book. For this reason alone, this book is worth a LOT more than its price. And to top everything, these Case Studies are presented in a very objective way so that you can try to see things the way they really are and engage in educational discussions with a group of experienced professionals to gain not just PM knowledge but PM WISDOM.<br />The time management exercise (about 24 pages) is one of the best sections in the entire book. It is simple, yet worth spending time on. The Case Studies of the Denver Airport (under the Managing Scope Changes Chapter) and the Space Shuttle Challenger (under the Project Risk Management Chapter) areprobably the most valuable Case Studies (in my opinion). These are the Case Studies that are 40 and 50 pages respectively that I mention at the beginning of the review.<br />The Preface carries a very important observation (and message) regarding how these basic project management mistakes are still being repeated even 20-30 years later in modern day corporations. This is very profound as it implies that these mistakes can be avoided by Project Managers that learn from the past mistakes made by other corporations (from these Case Studies). It is amazing that something so simple has not happened in the Project Management profession even after all these years.<br />I have treasured this book since the day I received it and I am looking forward to joining a local group of experienced Project Managers (meaning the Austin chapter of the PMI) to discuss and learn from these Case Studies. A definite buy AFTER obtaining the PMP Certification. In my opinion, it will only confuse the reader who is focussed on passing the exam to read these Case Studies that don't have any analysis associated or references to the PMP exam (I didn't find the word PMP anywhere between the covers of this book).<br />I hope you found this long and objective review helpful and that you benefit from these Case Studies.	2003-07-14
US	49111865	RADNE4SOQCOZU	B0000645WK	525913509	Driving Change : How the Best Companies Are Preparing for the 21st Century	Books	3	3	3	N	N	More like a textbook. Meanders a lot. Worth collecting.	If you are looking for a good management book that will present a new paradigm or will change the way you think, this book IS NOT for you. If you love management books, and find historical information about great companies and anecdotes within these companies, this book will nicely add to your collection.<br />The book was written before 1998 and was aimed at giving a picture of how the best companies of the time were getting ready to face the 21st century. To give you an idea of how well the book succeeded in predicting the future - the word 'Internet' is mentioned on ONLY 9 pages in the entire 350 page book. Of course, the inability to accurately predict the future and especially a sudden change brought about by something like the Internet is forgivable. The authors combine the Internet with a general section on Information Technology and its impact on the future.<br />The book makes for an interesting read though. It is packed with quotations, little known but interesting facts about big businesses, deep insights into what the leaders at the time were thinking (at companies like Ford, GM etc.), and commonsense management advice. Evertime I picked up the book, I got the distinct feeling that the authors didn't have a real point to make, but at the same time, I couldn't put down the book as I was fascinated by everything they found in their research. <br />There are not only references but also discussion of famous books by other authors, like 'Reengineering the Corporation' by Michael Hammer &amp; James Champy. The authors throw some cleverly disguised aspersions on the authors of these other books. <br />The book is split into four parts (taken directly from the introduction and a really good summary of the whole book) - <br />1. The first part describes the drivers of change - the obsolescence of the old corporation, the eruption of information technology, globalization, the new intensity of competition, society's expectations, and customers' expectations.<br />2. The second part describes how the new enterprise is reshaping the way business views people, including the customer, the leader, and the employee. <br />3. The third part analyzes how companies are using the new tools they have in information technology, innovation, speed, and quality.<br />4. The fourth part takes up the changes in the corporation itself, how companies are becoming global, how they network, how they learn, how they can best respond to society's demands, how they can redesign their architecture.<br />Bottom line, if you are interested in curious facts and little known information about famous companies, this book would serve quite well for that purpose. I am still enjoying my many sessions with this book learning about all these companies. This is one of those books that you won't feel like throwing away. It has that endearing quality to it. But don't expect to learn something revolutionary in this book that will change your future. It's just a fun management book to read.	2003-04-18
US	49111865	R2PZ7O1UJ3O5A0	B0000645WL	15194248	The Excuse Factory : How Employment Law Is Paralyzing the American Workplace	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Makes for a fascinating read on the impact of Employment law	In the last decade or so, Employment Laws in America have become more and more complex. Whether you are a start-up business owner or a manager in a big company, you are going to spend some time trying to understand the impact of these new laws on your own situation. There are now countless books, seminars,etc. designed to help you get up to speed on the latest and the greatest interpretations of the numerous Employment Laws. Of course, getting up to speed is no guarantee that you won't get sued. Even you haven't done anything wrong, you can still get sued. You are just better equipped to go through the legal process and hopefully win the lawsuit. This is what the author of the book is trying to prove - how these new laws are paralyzing Corporate America.<br />The author goes takes an indepth look at several laws like the American with Disabilities Act and gives countless examples of how these laws may not necessarily be accomplishing their original purpose. <br />Having recently started a small business, and wanting to be proactive in understanding the law, I decided to learn all the laws that apply to me as a small business owner. I have been completely overwhelmed by how many laws there are and how difficult it is to fully understand or correctly interpret their implications. After two years of slowly getting up to speed by reading books by publishers like Nolo (that offer excellent interpretations of various laws), I was thoroughly fascinated by The Excuse Factory. It is like reading a book with several short stories except these are real life stories of the history behind these laws and the cases that resulted in the current state of the laws.<br />The writing style of the author keeps the reader engrossed in the book. There is a sense of drama throughout the book and going through the book can be an emotional roller coaster ride. Fortunately, the various chapters in the book can be read independently without losing the gist of what the author is trying to communicate. So, you can read the book in several sessions spread out over time based on how much of the roller coaster ride you can take on any given day.<br />Though at first glance it may seem like the author is against these new laws, after digging deep into the book it becomes clear that the author is fairly objective in capturing both sides of the story. The author is just trying to present to the reader the way things are right now. These laws were instituted to provide justice and fairness. But those are difficult ideals to achieve and the downside of these laws could be a result of that difficulty. Hopefully over time, these laws will self-correct (as a result of public intervention, of course). I definitely plan on reading the author's other books and am eagerly looking forward to the experience. He has a sharp insight and is not afraid to state his opinions. I can't wait to see what other aspects of the legal system he tackles next. Enjoy reading this legal drama!	2003-04-18
US	49111865	R1E13NDUAD3DBR	0743212371	639019801	The Power of Positive Thinking in Business: Ten Traits for Maximum Results	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Positive Thinking AND Action Oriented Approach to Success.	In less than 200 pages, Scott W. Ventrella tries to incoporate the principles behind the Power of Positive Thinking by Norman Vincent Peale into the business world. This original work (Power of Positive Thinking) was translated into forty-two languages and sold over 22 million copies. So, it was inevitable that someone was going to leverage the popularity of this concept and ressurect it. Sure enough, the author Scott W. Ventrella has written this new book as it applies to the business world in cooperation with the Peale Center.<br />The old concept had come under massive attack in the last decade or so by more recent self-help gurus for its undue amount of focus on positive thinking and not enough on taking action (or how and what kind of action to take). The current book as applicable to modern day business world doesn't make that mistake. There is heavy focus on taking action. This book isn't something you just read through and put away, it is a book that you have to work through and probably refer to several times over the next few years. <br />The title caught my attention because my very first self-help book was the original 'Power of Positive Thinking' by Norman Vincent Peale. It had given me a lot of motivation to overcome obstacles and achieve a lot of success in life. Of course, even then I recognized that it wasn't enough to think positively. Hence I continued my search for a good self-help book and found 'The Ultimate Secrets of Total Self-Confidence' by Robert Anthony. In that book, the author explores deep into why we are where we are today. It traces everything back to your belief system embedded in your sub-conscious brain and how it manifests itself in your conscious actions during everyday life. These principles of how your belief systems ultimately affect your position in life are absolutely true and will never change. Ventrella combines these two and makes both sets of principles very action oriented. The book gives you a lot of things to do by yourself that will result in success.<br />This book in combination with other good self-help books (for both business and personal life) should drastically set your path in life towards that of success in business. But one has to really WORK through this book. It is not like the original book by Norman Vincent Peale where you got motivated by just reading the book. <br />Overall, I felt it was a book worthy of being in my business library collection. It does not provide any paradigm shifting ideas, but instead repackages old theories for today's audience. It does so very effectively and hence it is worthwhile to read and re-read this book till you are satisfied with the business results you are getting. I have already started taking massive action based on these ideas and I am confident that I will see the results. I hope you do too. Good luck!	2003-04-17
US	49111865	R384XPZ252EX3D	1879364832	242350515	The Memory Jogger Plus + Featuring the Seven Management and Planning Tools	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Detailed info on the 7 M&amp;P tools.	The 7 Management &amp; Planning tools that are featured in this book have been around for a while. The author puts them all together in one book with some handy removable cards that act as 'cheat sheets' to using these tools so you don't have to carry the book around with you.<br />The tools presented in this book are - <br />1. Affinity Diagram - used when you are trying to find the most important factors from a large number of ideas, opinions, and issues.<BR>2. Interrelationship Diagraph - used when you are trying to find the cause and effect relationships in your data by using graphical techniques.<BR>3. Tree Diagram - used to get from a high level to a low level detail (goals to tasks).<BR>4. Prioritization Matrices - used when you are trying to prioritize tasks, issues or options based on weighted criteria.<BR>5. Matrix Diagram - used when you are trying to map between two sets of information (example - sets of current and future processes). <BR>6. Process Decision Program Chart (PDPC) - excellent risk management tool.<BR>7. Activity Network Diagram - most often used as an activity sequencing tool. <br />You will see these tools mentioned in various Project Management books because they are very effective as planning tools. Time does not seem to diminish their value for this purpose. They are very handy planning tools that can be used alone or in combination depending on the type of situation you are in. Originally, the people working in the Quality departments of large organizations used these tools more than anyone else. But in the present, every project manager needs to know at least some of these tools.<br />In about 300 pages, the author goes into great detail about the purpose of each of these tools and how to use them with examples. There are also a couple of chapters on the requirements at the personal and organization level necessary for the usage of these tools to be most effective. <br />Bottom line, this book is most useful for Project Managers or Quality personnel in any industry. The tools don't take much time to master and once you start using them, you WILL be hooked. You may not use all of the tools but you will have your personal favorites depending on the type of industry you are in and the type of problems you face on a daily basis. Enjoy learning the tools and benefiting from their usage!	2003-04-17
US	49111865	R8Y113RD1NRIZ	B0000645WU	860559560	The New Market Leaders: Who's Winning and How in the Battle for Customers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	How to win against fragmented markets and customer scarcity.	The value of customer service is known to almost every one of us. So, what is new about this book? More detail on how to win customers in these days of fragmented markets (mass media can't help us anymore) and customer scarcity (it's really product/service glut). The author studied the best 5,000 companies in the world and came up with some valuable information that we can copy from these market leaders.<br />The author starts out by establishing the evaluation criteria that got a company into the study and he coins two new terms to describe these criteria - sales growth index and market value index (details of these terms on pages 7-13 of the book). <br />The author then summarizes the industries in which all these companies fall under - Consumer Products, Media and Entertainment, Heavy Industry, Technology Products, Technology Services, Financial Services, and Other Industries (healthcare, consumer services, and other). <br />A whole chapter is then dedicated to why we are feeling a scarcity of customers. The author names the reasons for this sitaution (new realities) - competitors proliferate, all secrets are open secrets, innovation is universal, information overwhelmes and depreciates, easy growth makes hard times, customers have less time than ever. He does a good job of justifying these obvious reasons with some supporting data.<br />So, if the new realities are that harsh, how are the market leaders managing? The author describes FOUR STRATEGIES that seem to work for these market leaders in overcoming the obvious difficulties in these days of customer scarcity. The four strategies being - <br />1. being the best and showing it<BR>2. the customers who can make or break you<BR>3. making sure customers 'get it'<BR>4. outsized ambition.<br />To support why the market leaders have adopted these strategies, the author then labels all customers as falling into four categories and spends 4 chapters explaining how to work each of these groups<br />1. Searchers (eagerto change and self-reliant)<BR>2. Collaborators (eager to change and ready for help)<BR>3. Streamliners (seeking stability and self-reliant)<BR>4. Delegators (seeking stability and ready for help)<br />The rest of the book consists of some case studies to reinforce the above mentioned concepts and ideas. Overall, a simple book to read and valuable information considering the source data (the top 5,000 companies in the world). The criteria that the author used to come up with this list does seem reasonable. The best part of the book is that this book was originally written before the dot com bubble burst. If the author's claims are true, the companies short-listed by using his criteria survived the burst (except a small percentage attributable to other factors)! We don't know if the author's claims are true that his list didn't change much (as the book was published after the burst even though he wrote it before the burst). But if they are true, it is valuable information for any business that plans on emerging from this gloomy economy as one of the market leaders. The ideas presented meet the common sense test, so we are following these ideas quite a bit in our new company to achieve success. <br />The book is definitely worthwhile to look at. There are so many books in this niche (business help) that it can be overwhelming for anyone to make any sense out of this glut. But this book is really such a quick read and the concepts are so simple and small in number that I think the 2-3 hours time spent is time well spent. Good luck and I hope you get something good out of this book!	2003-04-17
US	49111865	R1Y12GEQ7LMGK2	0806517204	338169471	The Word Lover's Dictionary: Unusual, Obscure, and Preposterous Words	Books	5	33	33	N	N	True to its title. You have to love words to love this book.	This 264 page book has over SIX THOUSAND words all of which are definitely unusual and obscure. I didn't find any preposterous words though:-) I recently bought this book so I can't use the words from the book in this review yet. But I wanted to share a few thoughts and observations about the book.<br />The first thing I did before buying the book was to see how many of the words I was unfamiliar with. You see, I had once gone through the entire Collins English Language Dictionary  cover to cover (not the pocket version, the one with over 70,000 words). It's not important to this review why I did such an insane thing as read a dictionary cover to cover. More importantly, because of this background, I figured that I should find very few words in this Word Lover's Dictionary that I had not run across in my life before. I was in for a surprise! I scanned 3 whole pages and to my utter shock, I didn't find a single word that I had seen before! This amazed me so much that I immediately purchased a copy of the book. <br />The second thing I did was to get on the Internet to see how many words would show up in their search engine. I was even more surprised when I found that out of 10 consecutive words that I randomly picked from the book, only 3 showed up as valid! Of course, this doesn't mean that these words don't exist, it just means that you need to go to the Unabridged version of some English language dictionary to find them. Since the Unabridged versions are premium services on most sites, I didn't check to see how the 10 words would fare on those sites. But I wouldn't be surprised if you have to go to quite a few sites to find all the words. The author does admit that you would have to look through many Unabridged dictionaries to actually find some of these words. <br />Some interesting facts about words in the English language. There are approximately 600,000 words in the English language and most of these words are related to Science and Technology. Of these, a majority are biological or chemical terms to be more precise. They also happen to be nouns referring to the thousands of chemicals, bacteria, plants & animals, etc. Leaving these nouns to the side, there are less than 100,000 words that we could possibly use in our daily communications unless we are in those highly specialized fields of Science and Technology. So, most Abridged dictionaries contain anywhere between 30,000 and 70,000 words and you would actually have to go to the Unabridged versions to find the rest of the usable words. The author has collected 6,000 of the most unusual and obscure of these other 30,000 words to present to the reader. It is a truly REMARKABLE effort indeed!<br />Bottom line, if you love words, get this book. Don't even hesitate. I haven't regretted my purchase since I got my copy. Every week, I plan on spending a few minutes going through these pages. I know I will thoroughly enjoy the experience (as I have so far). I hope you do too :-)	2003-04-16
US	49111865	RP1I889VI4DB3	B00007D03K	418994576	Every Mistake in the Book: A Business How-NOT-To	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Valuable and True Information. Depressing tone.	The book outlines 103 mistakes (1-2 pages each) that the author made in his many years of being an entrepreneur. It is amazing that he had the energy to survive the kind of mistakes he made. He had fortunately taken notes during all those years and was able to abstract his experiences into these mistakes that fall into 5 broad categories. He categorizes them into Biz Basics, Money Matters, How to Manage Managing, In the Trenches, and Let's get Personal. The first four titles of chapters above are self-explanatory but the last section refers to how your looks, actions, and thoughts really do matter. <br />The author has a very direct approach in communicating with the reader. It is almost as if you can hear him talking to you in a room with just a few other people present. Unfortunately, the tone that you hear while reading the book is very depressing. The author sounds very cynical and distrusting. It is almost as if he lost faith in people and the world. This alone was scary enough for me to want to read the book and make sure that I don't make the same mistakes (in case I end up with the same frame of mind as the author's). <br />If you are a small business owner, you can't afford to ignore the knowledge presented in the book. Everyone is familiar with at least some of the mistakes presented in the book. But it is very important to be familiar with all of them because you will run into them sooner or later. The difficult part is in getting past the author's bad attitude towards business and the world at large. I had to spread out the reading of the book into several sessions because I could only take so much of the book in one sitting. I wish there was a different book with the same information but a much happier attitude. But that is just my personal preference. I know other people who would read through this book in one sitting without noticing anything wrong with the tone of the book at all!<br />I purchased a copy of the book when I first started my company in2001. I read it after I had already made a few of the mistakes that the author talks about. I then read the book and ever since then I have tried to consciously avoid making the rest of the mistakes presented in the book. And even then I am sure that there is no guarantee of this being an exhaustive list of mistakes one can make in business. I am sure every reader will discover a couple of mistakes unique to their situation that are not in the book. <br />After reading the book, I felt even more confident in my decision not to sell stock in my company till the business model has been proven successful (in essence, wait to have investors). Of course, you then have to deal with the worst problem any business can have - being undercapitalized during the stage when you most need the money! The author experienced both problems simultaneously - having too many investors and being undercapitalized at the same time. There are very good reasons why he ended up in that unique situation. You will quickly see this as you start reading about the various mistakes he made.<br />Overall, I am very happy to have made the purchase of this book. Another book that would go very well with this book is 'The EMyth Revisted' by Michael E. Gerber. This is a more inspirational book on how to build a successful business model (not just a business). Check it out when you have some time. <br />If you are a small business owner, I hope you benefit from this book by avoiding at least some of these mistakes. Sure, you will make different ones, but at least you are ahead of most people who don't read this book. I wish you the best of luck in your business!	2003-04-15
US	49111865	R15POOZNLCZDUR	1880410974	13649612	Project Manager Competency Development Framework	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Giant Checklist to improve your Project Management skills!	For the longest time, the main standard that PMI focussed on was the development of the 'Guide to the PMBOK'. The purpose of that Guide was to 'Improve the Performance of Projects'. There is another standard (on WBS) to achieve the same purpose.<br />In recent years, PMI has decided to address other goals like 'Improve the Performance of Project Personnel'. It is towards achieving this end that the standard 'Project Management Competency Development (PMCD) Framework' was developed. An exposure draft was released recently and this book is that exposure draft in it's entirety. PMI is now accepting comments on this exposure draft and a final version will be released soon based on the feedback.<br />PMI has done a fantastic job in creating this standard. It is very usable, much more than the 'Guide to the PMBOK'. It is only 108 pages long out of which the main standard is only 70 pages long. The rest is Appendices that outline the process followed in developing the standard and a glossary of terms. Even in these 70 pages, the first 12 pages are the main material to be read. These 12 pages describe everything you need to know about the PMCD framework and how to use it. The next 58 pages are nothing but a giant checklist that you can use in assessing your project management competencies and coming up with a plan to fill any gaps you may have. These 58 pages will be the most used pages in your project management career.<br />The basic idea in the standard is that there are three areas of competencies that a project manager needs to be concerned with - PM Knowledge, PM Performance, and PM Personal Competencies. When a project manager improves in these three areas, the projects will see an improvement in their success too. These three competencies are further split into multiple sub-sections and described in sufficient detail.<br />A great way to use this standard is to read the standard cover to cover and come up with an individualized plan for oneself. I am currently in the process of coming up with this plan for myself and I plan on maintaining it for a year before revamping it. The print function on this electronic file is supposed to be disabled but it wasn't disabled on my download. I am currently contacting PMI to alert them of this so they can fix it. All their other standards that you can download have their print functionality disabled.<br />Even otherwise, this book has a very small price to pay considering the benefits. How many other professions have such a logical and systematic approach that is documented in 70 pages to improve your skills? Overall, this is a standard that has been long overdue in the Project Management profession. There could be changes to this draft over the next couple of years as PMI gets feedback from people like yourself after you start using this framework and find room for improvement. Enjoy this valuable book!the process of coming up with this plan for myself and I plan on maintaining it for a year before revamping it. The print function on this electronic file is supposed to be disabled but it wasn't disabled on my download. I am currently contacting PMI to alert them of this so they can fix it. All their other standards that you can download have their print functionality disabled. <br />Even otherwise, this book has a very small price to pay considering the benefits. How many other professions have such a logical and systematic approach that is documented in 70 pages to improve your skills? Overall, this is a standard that has been long overdue in the Project Management profession. There could be changes to this draft over the next couple of years as PMI gets feedback from people like yourself after you start using this framework and find room for improvement. Enjoy this valuable book!	2003-04-15
US	49111865	R3HM1W7W0GB2EZ	1880410818	734682813	Project Management Institute Practice Standard for Work Breakdown Structures	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Every Project Manager needs the info on pages 11-18.	If you just read Chapter 4 (pages 11-18, that's 8 pages) of this book, you can glean the essence of this entire 80 page book. This chapter contains valuable details relating to creating a WBS. This chapter explains the process of coming up with a WBS for your project. This information is not availabe at this level of detail in many other books. And more importantly, these details came out after an extensive effort by PMI (this effort is described in Appendix A-D). No project manager can afford to do work without being familiar with the information in this book. The first three chapters are short and serve as an introduction to what a WBS is and it's value on any project. If you are a PMP, you already know this information and you can gloss over these chapters. If you are new to project management, these first three chapters are as valuable as the fourth chapter because they lay the foundation for understanding how to do a WBS.<br />Appendix E-O outline sample WBS for different industries. I am familiar with the Web Design and Software Development fields and I can definitely say that these are too basic to be of any use unless you are a new project manager in these fields. I cannot speak to the value of the sample WBS for other industries but I am guessing you would probably have access to better sample WBS in your own company. There are vendors like IIL (International Institute of Learning) selling better templates of these WBS in the form of project schedules for various industries. It may be worthwhile looking in that direction if you are trying to collect these.<br />The whole book is a free Acrobat download from PMI if you are a member. The print function on this download is disabled though so if you want a copy for your desk collection, you have to buy this print edition.<br />As a final note, this is a very valuable contribution from PMI. I have visited too many clients where project schedules are glorified 'task lists' derived from wishful thinking. These then get put on a calendar and the client is satisfied that they have a 'project plan'. I had always wished that somebody had already educated the clients on the importance of a deliverable driven approach to project planning (WBS serves this function). As a project manager working for a consulting company, it becomes your job to do this. I plan on using this book as a baseline to achieve this purpose (hand out a copy to the client and take it from there). This book is simple enough that I believe it would accomplish the purpose. <br />So, at the very least, download the electronic copy and buy this print edition when you get a chance. I hope you found the information in this review helpful. And more importantly, I hope you find the information in the book even more helpful (as I did). Good luck!	2003-04-15
US	49111865	R1PMQMS4C3F60B	0971164711	451205917	PM FASTrack: PMP Exam Simulation Software	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Over 1300 practice questions. Similar to the actual test.	After comparing some of the most popular PMP preparation software programs, I found this software to be one of the better ones in the market. There are a few limitations to this software but in my opinion, the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages.<br />The main advantage is that PM Fastrack takes a Process Group approach as opposed to a Knowledge Area approach and this alone can single-handedly influence whether you are going to pass the PMP. In addition, PM Fastrack is probably the largest repository of exam practice questions you can find in any product. I have looked at several products (software and books) and not found any that has more questions than this product. <br />The thing I liked the most about PM Fastrack is that the questions on the CD-ROM very closely resemble the actual test questions. The resemblence is in more ways than one - nature of questions, phrasing of questions, length etc. In a couple of instances, I even saw an exact repeating of the questions from this product. I don't know how it happened, but it did. <br />There are a few things I didn't like about the software. If you are into software development, you will instantly recognize that good HCI principles were NOT followed in designing this software. In one instance, I lost the results of 3 hours of work that I did because I clicked on a button that had misleading instructions. In case you are wondering, I am not new to using computer software. <br />But I am guessing you aren't looking for good HCI or usability when evaluating a software to buy that will help you pass the PMP. So, I think if you mentally prepare yourself for not liking these aspects of the software, then you may not find these problems as annoying as I did. Ignoring the disadvantages, you can't go wrong with this software in preparing for the PMP. The software is more useful if you use it along with 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy also. Good luck with passing the PMP!	2003-04-14
US	49111865	R1ZFY936P3K3IZ	0471225770	581833953	Project Management: A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling	Books	5	134	136	N	N	Comprehensive. One stop for Project Management knowledge.	Several people I have talked to seem to have mixed feelings about this book. Most never get past the first few pages in the book and many are afraid not to have this book prominently displayed on their desks. The latter is to avoid someone mistaking them for a junior project manager. <br />The best way to review this monumental book on project management is to list the most common arguments for and against the book.<br />The book presents comprehensive knowledge of project management that you can substitute only by purchasing several books on the subject by other authors. Dr. Harold Kerzner is also one of the most respected experts on Project Management. Dr. Kerzner now has several companion books to supplement this main text book. One area that the book was considered lacking in the past was  with regards to case studies. You can now buy his latest book that is dedicated to covering just case studies. The writing style is extremely easy to read and follow. Once you read his explanation on any topic, you will find that it is hard to disagree with him because his explanations are very compelling. <br />The reasons many people have disliked the book - the book is too boring to read, it is too long a book, it is a compilation of bullet lists, there are not enough case studies (or problems/exercises), etc. I can't say anything about the first complaint because it is actually true but if you are in the middle of a project and have a burning question, I can promise you that is isn't so boring to pull up the relevant section in the book and find a reasonable explanation to your question. The book is very long because it is an exhaustive treatment of the Project Management field. There is no reason to read it in one sitting. Regarding being a compilation of bullet lists, it does seem that way. But when you have been in project management for a while and have an appreciation for the difficulty of the field, the lists don't get in the way. The author has enough explanations surrounding the bullet lists that I never found them annoying. To address the complaints regarding case studies, problems/exercises, there is now a book dedicated to case studies and I believe there have always been workbooks that he authored which contained more problems/exercises. <br />A good approach to follow regarding the usage of this book is to buy it early on in your career but stop after reading just the first few chapters. As you are gaining experience and have been exposed to a majority of the project management field, it is time to refer to this book more often. I have followed the book through several editions over the years and looked up various topics as questions popped up in my mind while going through a project. I am yet to finish the whole book (this is my 7th year reading the various editions of his book) after all these years but I didn't expect to. It is a great reference book and I have been using it as one.<br />There are better books to read on project management if you looking for a quick overview. 'The Little Black Book of Project Management' by Michael Thomsett comes to mind along with 'Project Management - Planning and Control' by Rory Burke. If you are looking for help with the PMP preparation, I highly recommend 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy. Read my review on her book for more detailed information on taking the exam.<br />IIL offers several Project Management classes that are taught by excellent instructors if you like what you read in this book and are looking for more of the same. A copy is given out as part of the class materials (for some of their classes). I hope you benefit from reading this book as much as I did and thanks for your patience. This is indeed a difficult book to review.	2003-04-14
US	49111865	R3RV8L4LIPHIMG	1890367281	507792544	PMP Exam: Practice Test and Study Guide	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Few redeeming features to the book. Better books out there.	As the title says, this is what the book is all about - Practice questions on all 9 Knowledge Areas plus Professional Responsibility Domain (40 per section) and a full length practice test. The Study Guide in the title must refer to the reasonably detailed answers to all the questions in the book. This is helpful but you will find the same in most of the books by competing authors. <br />The only thing different about this book is the short introduction to each Knowledge Area which I found extremely helpful. This introduction (1-2 pages) rates the the level of difficulty of the particular knowledge area and some very good tips on how to handle the section on the actual PMP. If you have access to this book from your company PM library, by all means read the relevant pages (less than 15 in the whole book) to benefit from the book. Otherwise, I am not sure if I would recommend the book for the price it is listed at. Books that are similar but provide the reader much higher value are 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy and 'PMP Study Guide' by Kim Heldman. You may benefit by reading my reviews on these books and other Project Management books for more information on learning Project Management and passing the PMP. Best of luck in passing the exam!	2003-04-14
US	49111865	R2AM6W9FXJJDWC	0971164754	2155616	Hot Topics: Audio Flashcards for Passing the PMP Exam	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You may remember the definitions forever after listening.	The CD contains numerous definitions and a few basic concepts read aloud by a professional speaker.<br />I received this audio CD when I purchased the book 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy and PM Fastrack (software). This audio CD is excellent in mastering the definitions and basic concepts from the 'Guide to the PMBOK' by PMI which is the official syllabus for the PMP. One of the main problems in passing the PMP is the situational questions that comprise a majority of the questions on the test. These questions seem very subjective but once you understand the definitions thoroughly, half the problem is solved. <br />That's where this audio CD comes in. After you have had a chance to read the 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy, you can start listening to this audio CD whenever you have a few minutes. I played the 87 minute CD for about half an hour each night before going to bed. I have successfully used this technique in a lot of tests where you need to memorize definitions. If you play the CD about 2-3 times before taking the test, you should be able to recall the definitions very easily. If you play it a couple more times, I am guessing you will never forget the definitions. <br />The CD has a few basic project management concepts on top of the definitions. The voice is not that of Rita Mulcahy but of a professional speaker. The price seems a bit [high] and some people have preferred the book version of 'Hot Topics' for the value provided. I have personally reviewed another product, 'PMP Exam Challenge' by J. Leroy Ward in book form and liked it also. But the superiority of HEARING these definitions on an audio CD is hard to match in any book. This is because when you both HEAR and READ a concept or definition, it is more likely to permanently etch itself in your brain than otherwise. Of course, the strongest etching occurs when you use audio, video, book, and some form of interactivity in your learning. <br />If you get a chance, read my review on 'PMP Exam Prep' where I wrote about my PMP exam experience. You may find it helpful in preparing for the PMP exam. ... Rita Mulcahy is President & Founder of RMC Project Management that published this audio CD. The best of luck to you in passing the PMP exam!	2003-04-14
US	49111865	R1MSM5OMN5XBIA	1890367265	468041633	PMP Challenge!	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Half the battle in passing the PMP is definitions ...	One of the goals PMI has always pursued is to standardize the terminology in the Project Management field. Hence, it isn't surprising that a majority of the questions on the PMP either directly or indirectly test your understanding of numerous definitions found in the 'Guide to the PMBOK'. <br />One of the main benefits that this book 'PMP Challenge' provides is that it makes it really easy to learn and remember the various definitions on top of helping you recall them. This spiral bound, flash card style, Question &amp; Answer book has hundreds of definitions on top of numerous Project Management concepts - the minimum you need to master in order to pass the PMP. This book CANNOT be used as a standalone product to help you pass the PMP. You need to at least use the 'Guide to the PMBOK' by PMI and 'PMP Exam Prep' by Rita Mulcahy on top of a comprehensive text book on Project Management to safely ensure that you get the PMP. <br />This book is great if used after you have an overall understanding of the Project Management field and are trying to master the definitions and concepts presented in the 'Guide to the PMBOK'. It is a terrific aid to test yourself and increase your ability to recall. For this purpose, it is a very complete tool. The spiral bound makes it easy to open anywhere in the book when you have a few minutes and quiz your brain. The flash card style makes it easy to test concepts and definitions independently. The Question &amp; Answer style format keeps the PMP preparation interesting. <br />All 9 Knowledge Areas are covered (with 60 questions per section) and a 10th area covering Professional Responsibility is supposed to have been added in the latest edition (3rd Edition). There is cross referecing to the five Process Groups for each question to help you grasp the knowledge even better. The only thing I cringed at was the price. But if your company library has a copy, you are all set. Otherwise, I would recommend it if you are mainly experiencing aproblem with definition and concept recall. This book is by no means sufficient for your PMP preparation because the toughest part of the PMP is the situational type questions that seem very subjective and the definitions/concepts are only half the battle. The price is the only reason that I rated this book at 4 stars. Good luck with the PMP!	2003-04-14
US	49111865	R2LHGG56STPRXP	0029051908	112977941	In the Presence of the Creator: Isaac Newton and His Times	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The life of the greatest abstract thinker of all times.	Every one has heard of Isaac Newton. His laws of motion, how an apple fell on his head to help him understand gravity, etc. Those who go on to college to study science or engineering hear more of his work in optics, calculus, and a myriad other fields. When you understand how his work is at the very foundations of modern science, you begin to appreciate his genius. <br />This book by Gale E. Christianson is based on about 4 millions words (approximately 8000 pages on a standard 8 inches by 11.5 inches paper) written by Newton himself. The author succeeds in presenting everything that is known about Newton in less than 600 pages. Throughout the book, considerable amount of time is spent in outlining the external environment (political, religious, social and scientific) in England to help the reader understand Newton's life better.<br />The book starts off with Newton's ancestry and his own very difficult birth (prematurely born). His life is traced all the way to his education at Trinity College (University of Cambridge) and beyond as a Professor of Mathematics. The controversy regarding who is the originator of Calculus (Leibniz being the contender) is addressed in great detail. Everything you may want to learn about the origins of 'Principia Mathematica' is also covered in this book. Of course, there is no substitute for reading a copy of the original 'Principia Mathematica' itself if you are interested in exactly what it comprised.<br />I have yet to finish reading the entire book and it has been about 10 years since I purchased my copy. I skipped a few chapters when I first read the book and I have never been able to find the time to go back and fill in the blanks. The 600 pages are quite daunting to read yet thoroughly enjoyable if you can relate to his life in any way. Even otherwise, the life of one of the greatest abstract thinkers of all times is absolutely fascinating. What makes the book difficult to read is not the complex mathematics or physics (there isnone of that in this book) but the pages and pages devoted to painting a picture of life in England at that time. There is so much information that you also need to find British History interesting in order to appreciate the entire book. <br />If you are deeply interested in Physics or Mathematics, you will enjoy this book thoroughly. Otherwise, it will make a good addition to your biography collection. The effort that the author spent on putting this book together is absolutely monumental. I plan on keeping this as part of my library collection and someday pass it on to my progeny. I hope you find it as enjoyable a book to read as I did.	2003-04-10
US	49111865	R91LXDT0RWXPK	0814479928	248118424	Get Clients Now! A 28-Day Marketing Program for Professionals and Consultants	Books	5	87	89	N	N	Use this cookbook with the help of a business coach.	If you have recently started your own small business and are wondering how you can ramp up on your knowledge of sales &amp; marketing, this book gives you a fantastic start. Most entrepreneurs are experts at something that has a need in the market (and hence they start a company to fill that need profitably), but are typically beginners at everything else that a successful startup business demands. After struggling for more than two years trying to make my own startup business successful, I hired a business coach to help me fill the void in knowledge with regards to sales &amp; marketing. She recommended this book right off the bat. <br />The book starts by explaining the 6 different marketing strategies that are available to most businesses and their effectiveness. These six strategies are - 1. Direct contact and follow up, 2. Networking and referral building, 3. Public Speaking, 4. Writing and Publicity, 5. Promotional Events, and 6. Advertising in that order. The next two chapters focus on the marketing/sales cycle and setting your own goals. The book then launches into outlining 'The System' - their 28 day marketing program that is geared towards increasing your bottom line. The last part of the book focuses on strategies for specific problems you may be running into with implementing the system. The whole book is just 10 chapters in about 200 pages. Very efficient and effective in getting results. <br />There are a lot of worksheets throughout the book that the reader can use. This book is most effective when you use it with the help of a business coach. There is a lot more to becoming successful in sales &amp; marketing than just understanding the basic theory. Even though the book does a great job of arming you with detailed knowledge and incredible confidence, you still need someone with experience to guide you through this process to get the best results. <br />This 28 day program will be slightly different for everyone who follows it because of the uniquesituation you may be in. But if repeated several times, you will see better and better results. The best part about the book is that it demystefies sales &amp; marketing and gives you a systematic approach that you can follow. It is as simple as that. And, you will know quickly if the system works for you (it's only a 28 day commitment). When I read the book, I was a bit taken aback thinking 'Is this it? Is it that simple?'. I spent a little time trying to compare the book to the recognized text books in the field and finally decided to just put it to the test myself. I tried a few things that the book recommended and saw instant results! <br />Sure, there is more to sales &amp; marketing and you will discover it over time with experience (as it applies to your specific business). But no other book gives you this much information in such a short time. Good luck with your business and definitely seek the assistance of a business coach!	2003-04-09
US	49111865	RKW22AP546MMZ	0130429465	297183398	The Power Within!: Tap Your Inner Force and Program Yourself for Success	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Equal to at least 5 self-help books - all in just one book!	If you find this old out of print book in a used bookstore, get a copy. It is good wisdom on using the power that is within every one us existing as untapped potential to do almost anything. There is information in this book on <br />1. How to improve your self-image<BR>2. How to be financial successful<BR>3. How to have wonderful relationship with your spouse<BR>4. How to break bad habits<BR>5. How to overcome worry and fear<BR>6. Time Management<BR>7. Health<BR>8. ...<br />I have never seen a book that has so much information, it is like the ultimate self-help book! Almost 300 pages of perfect wisdom. It is hard to disagree with even a single thing mentioned in this book. I guess since I am not into publishing, I don't understand why such great books as these don't really become that popular. Don't be deceived the appearances of this book (not a single picture anywhere in the book including the cover, there is a picture of the author on the back cover though), start reading from anywhere in the book and make up your own mind. I hope you enjoy this book as much I do on a weekly basis!	2003-04-08
US	49111865	RULQBZ6OL5XQX	1880410303	935018469	Principles of Project Management (Collected Handbooks from the Project Management Institute)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Required reading for the PMP? NOT! A must buy though ...	This book used to be on PMI's recommended reading list for PMP preparation (I am not sure if it still is). The book does not use any complicated terminology and is written using an easy to read writing style. But the concepts will be easier to understand when you become an experienced project manager. If you read it at the beginning of your career, I recommend that you keep this in mind and not be disappointed. Just hold on to the copy and you will appreciate it later when you have more overall knowledge of project management.<br />The book is literally a compilation of 8 of the best papers on project management ever published. Hence the papers can be read independently. If you are a student at some University, you should be able to trace the individual papers to their source in your University library and print them at a much lower cost than the price of this book. The price was the only disappointment for me and since I am not a student, I couldn't  do what I suggested above.<br />The eight different topics addressed by these papers in the book are - <br />1. Conflict Management<BR>2. Contract Administration<BR>3. Negotiating<BR>4. Time and Stress Management<BR>5. Team Building<BR>6. PM Roles and Responsibilities<BR>7. Organizational Development Approach<BR>8. Organizing for Project Management<br />Based on my own personal background, I found the first five topics noted above the most interesting and the topic on Time and Stress Management the most useful. A lot of people I have talked to have not really found the time to read this book before taking the PMP but I would recommend reading it thoroughly once you have passed the PMP. I am finding that this book provides a very useful way to consolidate one's PM knowledge. PMI publishes 'Project Management Journal' and 'PM Network' on a regular basis that are also absolutely essential for any project manager. I have actually kept these publications from years back and they are one of the most prized possessions of myPM library. Enjoy reading these papers and the above mentioned publications!	2003-04-08
US	49111865	R2SAWBS7OG4MOZ	047133202X	357966244	How to be a Billionaire: Proven Strategies from the Titans of Wealth	Books	5	75	77	N	N	A bold book. Strategies. Principles. Lives of Billionaires.	Imagine having the courage to write a book that is aimed at budding entrepreneurs who want to be billionaires. Millionaires, sure. But billionaires? How many of us would be willing to even discuss with our friends the thought of giving it a shot by taking a systematic approach to making billions? It is fascinating that someone would seriously spend that much time researching the strategies that were purportedly used by billionaires like Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, Ross Perot, etc. Even more amazing that they would write a book about it. That alone convinced me to buy the book. Okay, I also got it during the after-christmas sale at amazon.com for 70% off, but frugality is one of the key principles followed by the billionaires. <br />When you start reading the book, you realize that the author is very serious about teaching you how to be a billionaire if that is your goal. The book follows this format - the first chapter which is 28 pages long is definitely worth reading multiple times. It introduces the concept of 'Overcoming the Levelers' which in this day and age are the 'Menace of Competition' and the 'Obstacle of Social Conventions' and some ideas to overcome these. This chapter also talks about the obvious and not so obvious paths that have NOT been taken by billionaires, like 'playing the stock market' or 'salary'. The different key principles shared by the billionaires along with some of the strategies they followed are briefly described. Most importantly, this chapter provides some very deep insights into how these very successful people did it.<br />The rest of the book goes into the 9 different strategies that were employed by the billionaires in reaching their current position. This is a fascinating journey into the details of how they became so successful. There are also a couple of important chapters on choosing the right industry and some tidbits for the readers who are putting their own plans together. For those of us who spend a lot of time staying ontop of the world financial news and trying to figure out how certain mergers end up in 'the whole is more than the sum of the parts' situation will find this book a treat. There are examples of these mergers where the author explains the theories behind high stock valuations. And it is all a very easy read. I have been unsuccessfully tyring to figure this out on and off for about 3 years and this book helped me understand this concept in just a few minutes.<br />As the authors rightly point out, a lot of people on the planet are very interested in making enormous sums of money - as witnessed by the popularity of state lotteries across the country and the world. Of course, most of us don't aspire to actually make this the central focus of our lives (lottery addicts excluded) for good reasons - lack of information on how to do it being the number 1 reason. There may be more certainty in taking the path to become a sports star, movie star or earn a doctorate than in making enormous sums of money. It just isn't clear how one can do it. That is obviously why there are so few billionaires in the world. <br />But this book is a fascinating read that can help you decide whether to really pursue this dream or set less lofty goals (like making enough money for a comfortable retirement) and stop trying to convince your spouse that you are going to become a billionaire some day, if only the economy would turn around or if only someone would give you a chance or if only ... This book has been helping me set clearer targets for myself by coming to terms with the fact that it is an almost impossible task to make that kind of money from nothing. Instead, it has helped me define a path and set a goal that is in tune with my own capabilities. <br />Get a copy of this book and read it cover to cover if spend more than 2 hours a week talking to friends about making a lot of money. I wish you the best of luck with this very important pursuit!	2003-04-08
US	49111865	R3T4EJJSLJNS7S	1880410656	73628122	The Jugglers Guide to Managing Multiple Projects	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great job of identifying types of multiple projects.	We have all at one point or another in our Project Management careers, dealt with the issue of managing multiple projects. There is limited knowledge out there on how to manage multiple projects. Dobson starts out by identifying three different types of situations in which you may be managing multiple projects.<br />The first situation which he labels as 'Task Oriented Project Portfolio' deals with multiple projects that are very short in duration (a few hours of 1-2 days at most). The basic problem in this situation could be that there are a lot of these small projects and the PM has a full-time responsibilities on top of these projects.<br />The second situation is labeled 'Independent Project Portfolio' where there are a lot of similar type projects that are not related (no dependencies between the projects). The problem here is resource availability that is fixed but there ends the dependencies between the projects.<br />The third situation is called 'Interdependent Project Portfolio' where there are large projects with many small projects identified as tasks in the large projects. Here, the main problem is the different kinds of expertise that is demanded of the resources under the overall time constraints. An example of a move is utilized where it is a large project with many sub-projects that have time dependencies but are not related in content (computer setup, ordering utilities etc.).<br />Entrepreneurs in start up companies especially run into the first situation where there are so many of these small projects that the business owner is just plain overwhelmed. I have recently found myself in this situation and I was very thankful to read Dobson's book and apply the simple techniques and worksheets provided in the book.<br />Dobson briefly develops the circumstances surrounding each type of multiple project scenario and provides techniques and worksheets that a PM can use to manage in each situation. He also creates new definitions that apply in these individual scenarios. <br />This is not an in-depth treatment of the complexities involved in handling multiple projects. The book is only about 134 pages long. It is an expensive book  but I would highly recommend any serious project manager to at least borrow the book from some PM library that you may have access to. Dobson also spends almost half the short book on explaining simple project management concepts like WBS, Gantt Charts, etc. that most project managers are already familiar with. Hence it makes for a very quick but valuable read. Don't miss out on these neat techniques. The ROI is very high.	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R3TLU4TRC9NNRM	0812931696	354294700	How to Be a Star at Work: 9 Breakthrough Strategies You Need to Succeed	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Productivity Improvement Claims are false. Yet, useful book.	When someone says 'You can improve the rate of your productivity by 100 percent', which of the following do you assume?<br />1. If productivity is represented by some number between 1 and 100 and you were ranked at a 35, that your productivity would go up to 70.<br />2. If productivity is represented by some number between 1 and 100 and you were ranked at a 35, that your producitivity would go up to 38 (increase of 3). But someone else's producitivity only went up from 35 to 36.5 (increase of 1.5) and they didn't take the program that you did. This is a 100% increase in productivity because your productivity improvement (3) is 100% more than someone else's productivity improvement (1.5).<br />I never thought that anyone would assume # 2 above till I read the book and found out in the Appendix that the authors assume #2 and not #1 above! That is the logic used by the authors for all the claims in their book!<br />Why do I still give a 3 star rating to the book? Is there anything worth reading in the book? Is it worth the money price you pay for it (or lower if you buy it at Amazon.com)? Now that you know to take their claims with a grain of salt, this is what I found in the book - <br />The 9 strategies that the authors outline are absolutely correct and you can get everything you need out of the book by reading pages 31-34 where they describe the 9 different strategies in a perfectly acceptable way. Remember that these strategies are necessary but not sufficient for productivity improvements. There are other strategies that you need to be successful. Even with the 9 strategies in the book, it takes a lot of time to master them. It is absolutely necessary for anyone to master these strategies if you want to be highly successful at work. I found the rest of the book to be too much of a 'ra, ra' session with not much usable information. That isn't my style but I know others who find it useful. You decide if that is what you are looking for. This is also the reason I can't tell you if the authors succeed in helping one figure out how to master these 9 strategies. I couldn't sit through and finish the chapters on each of the strategies.<br />Other than the misleading logic and the particular style of presenting the material ('ra, ra' that could be translated by some to 'inspirational'), a lot of people I know have found the book very enjoyable. It is just not for a certain type of person who is looking at things from an objective and scientific perspective. The other thing is that researchers found out a long time back that no matter what kind of a change you institute, there is always a temporary increase in productivity due to the fact that there was a change. Human beings seem to be respond to any kind of change with a slight productivity improvement. It looks like the authors might have benefited from the same theory at work in their research. You could have replaced the changes they made with better lighting and you might have gotten similar productivity improvements. Also, you have to consider whether the productivity improvements are statistically significant and whether they are sustainable over time. The authors don't address these two issues that are important in any study trying to back their claims through statistics.<br />Leaving the gaping holes in the basis behind the author's claims and the misleading nature of the claims, one has to agree that the 9 strategies are indeed extremely valuable. If you go to a book store, flip through pages 31-34 and if you like what you read in the other pages, go ahead and make the investment. Otherwise, do what I did - borrow it from the company library, makes notes from pages 31-34 and write a review on Amazon.com with your opinions on it. Enjoy!	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R2FXHB07FBARLG	0028639200	124447291	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Project Management (2nd Edition)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent Companion for those new to Project Management.	Actually, it isn't bad for experienced project managers to review the different sections of this book for a quick refresher on an annual basis. This is a very good book to have on your desk while you are working on your first couple of projects as a project manager. It explains in very simple terms the various aspects of this extensive field of project management. Like everyone else, you too may feel like project management is too overwhelming a subject when you first start out. It really helps to have a book like this nearby. You may want to keep it out of sight to prevent silly remarks from your colleagues.<br />The sidebars that you will see throughout the book 'Words from the Wise' and 'Project Lingo' are extremely useful to read and get upto speed on the definitions and the tricks of the trade. The only limitation that I found is that the treatment on some of the topics isn't very complete. That is completely understandable as this isn't aimed at teaching advanced tricks of the trade to the seasoned project manager. For that, you need to refer to an advanced book like Harold Kerzner's 'Project Management - A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling'. Or keep up with the latest by attending seminars and workshops at your local chapter of the PMI (Project Management Institute...). <br />Finally, keep in mind that there are situations in project management that are specific to the industry you are in and sometimes there is no right answer. But most other times, the knowledge in this book is extremely helpful. Overcome the fear of being caught with a book that has the word 'Idiot' in the title and exploit the knowledge that the book provides!	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R30YHD4RJPODJN	1880410273	441748242	Earned Value Project Management, Second Edition	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Application of Earned Value can avoid legal problems.	As explained in Chapter 12, applying Earned Value concepts on projects in a publicly traded company may avoid legal problems surrounding accurate reporting of the financial situation of a company. This is because most projects if not completed could result in inaccurate financial reporting for a publicly traded company (if some form of performance measurement wasn't used while the project was in progress). It is interesting that this book was written before the accounting scandals of 2001-2002 and one of the few books that addresses this aspect. I don't know how much of the accounting scandals involved projects but I wouldn't be surprised if the SEC starts imposing stricter rules on the financial reporting surrounding projects in the future.<br />This book is an excellent treatise on how to measure project performance from both a cost and schedule perspective. This is what Earned Valued Analysis is all about. The book never gets too complicated and is easy to follow the whole way (200 pages). A word of caution - this may be too much material to digest if you are trying to prepare for the PMP. Rita Mulcahy's PMP Exam Prep has enough information on Earned Value Analysis that will easily help you get through that section on the PMP exam. But as soon as you obtain your PMP certification, I would highly recommend making the mastery of the material in this book your next goal. The real payoff in applying the project management principles comes when you are able to measure the project performance on top of controlling project performance and presenting the results to your project sponsors.<br />By the way, the concepts involved in Earned Value Analysis are extremely simple. It is amazing that so much control over your project can be attained by paying attention to the simple concepts of Earned Value, Planned Value, Actual Cost, and the related concepts of CPI and SPI. After setting up the project baseline to calculate these variables on a frequent basis, you are ready to control and predict the future of the project.<br />The first four chapters of the book go into the overall concepts and the history of Earned Value. Chapters 5-10 address how to set up your project for fully utilizing the power of the Earned Value concepts - all the way from setting up the scope of the project to forecasting. Chapter 11 discusses how the concepts apply to the private sector and Chapter 12 deals with the legal implications.<br />The authors are related to Primavera Systems (the leading provider of Project Management Software for the Engineering &amp; Construction industries) either as CEO or consultant to Primavera. PMI used to recommend this as required reading to prepare for the PMP exam but I am not sure if they still do. In either case, I don't believe it is required reading. I tried to read it before the PMP exam and I couldn't digest the material because there was too much on my mind already. But now that I have passed the PMP exam, I have thoroughly enjoyed learning the concepts and applying them to my current projects. <br />I hope everyone masters this subject and more projects in the world would end up successful. Good luck!	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R1IEAL5UB7HC02	1880410214	150484805	Pmbok Q&A (Cases in Project and Program Management Series)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Outdated, Incomplete, and...	...I just wanted to write a short review to share valuable information regarding this book with others that may buy it without realizing the book's limitations.<br />First of all, the PMP exam has recently gone some significant changes (like the significant number of questions on the Professional Responsibility section) and this book was published way before that. The PMBOK Guide that this book was based on has also been updated and the latest edition is now available. So, this book is clearly outdated.<br />Second, this book is nothing but a pocket guide that has 170 questions and answers (with some explanations). As a side note, the actual test has 200 questions! So, I don't see why anyone would want a book whose sole purpose is to provide an actual test simulation but only has 85% of the actual test length.<br />Third, I bought this book for [money] which is too much for what's inside (just 170 questions and their answers). The reason I bought it was that a few years back there wasn't much else available (or I wasn't aware of much else that was available), so I felt that something was better than nothing.<br />These days, there are other really good books that provide similar content more effectively. Two of them being - PMP Study Guide by Kim Heldman and PMP Exam Prep by Rita Mulcahy (the latter is the best book out there to prepare for the PMP). Read my review on the PMP Exam Prep by Rita Mulcahy book for more information on PMP preparation.<br />By the way, in case you are wondering, I do have my PMP certification. I hope you found this information helpful and good luck with the PMP exam!	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R3NA0XH0SV9VGE	0782141064	523209725	PMP: Project Management Professional Study Guide	Books	4	61	63	N	N	Can use as a companion to the PMBOK Guide for the PMP.	The PMBOK Guide (by PMI) is essential in preparing for the PMP, but follows the 9 Knowledge Areas approach. The approach necessary to pass the test is the 5 Process Groups (plus Professional Responsibility) approach. This Study Guide takes the 5 Process Groups approach and hence clears the confusion one may experience in reading the PMBOK Guide. They also go into more depth than the PMBOK Guide as can be seen by the fact that the book has more than twice as many pages.<br />This Study Guide also has a CD-ROM with hundreds of practice questions (you can take 2 practice exams). The entire book is on the CD-ROM too. I have not tried their electronic flashcards for PCs and Palm Handhelds. <br />Considering everything that the book offers, it is a great buy at [this price]. Other CD-ROM software programs that offer practice tests are over $300. The only other book that will prove very useful on top of this book is Rita Mulcahy's 'PMP Exam Prep'. It is a bit more expensive but is of much higher quality in preparing for the PMP exam. This Study Guide is wonderful as a secondary preparation material to Rita's book. Read my reviews of her book to get more info on preparing for the PMP. I always use multiple study guides to get multiple perspectives when preparing for an exam. So, if you can afford it, I would recommend both books for your PMP preparation. But if you want to invest in only one study guide, I would say get Rita's PMP Exam Prep.<br />Good luck on the PMP!	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R10JNAGS6VVTTE	047198762X	596268414	Project Management: Planning and Control Techniques, 3rd Edition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Condensed Intermediate Text on Project Management.	This is an excellent treatment of the vast body of knowledge that comprises project management. The author does a great job of explaining all the principles of project management in sufficient enough detail for a new PM. Of course, it is not a thorough, in-depth treatment of the field and the author makes no such claims. There are examples and exercises used throughout that make the book even more valuable. <br />Even though this is an especially useful book for new project managers, I think even experienced ones will find some benefit by having it in their PM library. Refer to Dr. Harold Kerzner's book 'Project Management - A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling' for an advanced treatment of the subject. Refer to Rita Mulcahy's 'PMP Exam Prep' to prepare for the PMP exam. A good book for beginners is 'The Little Black Book of Project Management' by Michael Thomsett. <br />The only book I would say is comparable to this one at an Intermediate level is 'The Complete Idiot's Guide to Project Management' by Sunny Baker and Kim Baker. It is a slightly better book and less than a third of the price of this book! Bottom line, you can't go wrong with this book if you have the money to spend on it.	2003-04-07
US	49111865	R1QO5GVMRG3MOS	0761536280	355467265	U.S. Immigration & Citizenship	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Understand U.S. Immigration Law through examples.	The most striking thing about this book is the extensive use of examples throughout the book. One of the main problems in understanding the law is trying to figure out how it applies to your particular situation. The use of examples is one of the best ways for an author to explain the various aspects of any law. In this book, the author did such a fantastic job that I have picked up the book at various times in the last decade to figure out how I can solve my own particular immigration problem and I was able to fix it very fast. He does such a great job that I got carried away by the confidence the book inspires and decided to handle one of the more difficult immigration situations myself. It worked out alright but in hindsight, I should have taken the assistance of a lawyer to make things easier for myself. <br />Another tremendous advantage in using this book is the latest updates available through the author's website (you will have to find this yourself using Google since Amazon reviews are not allowed to have web addresses in them - any addresses will be removed automatically). Immigration law is constantly changing and it is risky to follow the advice of any book since it would be outdated the day it was printed. The author is a well known authority on the subject and in the past, I have seen that he has always been very prompt in posting updates to the book between editions and also giving his interpretations of the latest changes to the U.S. Immigration law.<br />One thing I was told by several immigration lawyers in 1997 is that you don't need to find a local lawyer for immigration related issues. I am not sure if this is still true but what it means is that you don't have to despair if you live in an area that doesn't have a great immigration lawyer. You can always find someone with a good reputation that may be in another state. Based on the number of immigration issues I have gone through, I would strongly recommend anyone in similar shoes to be armed with the knowledge gained through books like this one, but still consult a good lawyer (especially if you are in a complicated situation). <br />The final step that I have pending is becoming a U.S. citizen (I am a permanent resident right now) and I am using this book to take care of this by myself. I wish you all the best of luck and I hope you find this book as valuable as I did.	2003-04-06
US	49111865	RFTQTG4PDV7BT	0062731661	193523906	The Insider's Guide to Successful U.S. Immigration: Discover How to Make the New Immigration Act Work for You	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Don't use this outdated book. Immigration Law has changed!	The reason I am writing a review on this out of print book is so that someone doesn't buy this book by mistake at a used book store or borrow it from a library. I have owned this book for a long time and never got around to getting rid of it till recently. When it was published, it was one of the few books that was so comprehensive and helpful. But since the publication of the book, U.S. Immigration Law has changed so SIGNIFICANTLY that it would be a mistake to refer to this book for any immigration related issue. <br />A better book would be Allan Wernick's 'U.S. Immigration & Citizenship'. He also has a website...where he posts his interpretations of the latest updates to the U.S. Immigration Law. His book utilizes examples very extensively to illustrate different aspects of the law. For more immigration related books and information, read my review on that book. <br />Good luck!	2003-04-06
US	49111865	R3CMY562Z8FLYS	0201590441	215937387	Born To Win: Transactional Analysis With Gestalt Experiments	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Theory on how to transform yourself into a WINNER.	We all instinctively seem to categorize everyone we meet (including ourselves) as a Winner or a Loser. We may not necessarily share our opinions with others, but we still constantly judge everyone and everything. Judgement is necessary for us to make everyday decisions on situations we run into but there may NOT be a need to place a positive or negative value on the judgements. This seems to be the unexpressed basis behind the book's methods to help us achieve our potential of a Winner that we were born to be.<br />The authors in this book start by defining Winners and Losers and present the two tools available in the early seventies to change oneself into a Winner. These two tools are Gestalt Therapy and Transactional Analysis. Gestalt Therapy was introduced by Dr. Frederick Perls and focuses on making ourselves into a whole in order to be a Winner. Transactional Analysis was brought to us by Dr. Eric Berne and focuses on understanding our interactions with others and what drives these interactions. He also delves into how these interactions (transactions) can go haywire and lead to problems in relationships.<br />After introducing the ideas in the above paragraph in Chapter 1, the book goes into an overview of Transactional Analysis by modeling the different parts of our personalities into three ego states - Parent, Adult and Child. ...<br />This is of course a simplification of the theory and the book spends an incredible amount of time addressing how these three sides to our personalities can interact with these same three ego states in another individual and all the things that can go wrong along the way and how to fix them. The process of getting these three ego states to work together is where Gestalt Therapy comes in. There are numerous exercises to help one's transformation but I kind of felt shy when I was 19 to do this with anyone else. I felt like it was bad enough that I knew I needed help but I didn't want it to get worse by publishing to the world what my problems were. I don't feel this way anymore so I would recommend that everyone who plans on using this book decide for themselves the approach that works best for them...<br />This is a book to own for a lifetime and refer to once every few years to see how much one has succeeded in having a more integrated personality. When I recently read this book for a third time, I definitely felt that it was a lot easier to comprehend and use than I did the first two times. The best thing about the theory in this book is that it is very easy to understand and relate to....I hope that after reading this book, you too increase your self-confidence and self-esteem. Good luck in becoming more of a Winner!	2003-04-06
US	49111865	R2NSKUKSYIAIB5	0738203068	17239351	Take Care of Yourself: The Complete Illustrated Guide to Medical Self-Care	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A lightweight and easy to read self-care medical book.	Even though the cover claims that the book is 'The Complete Illustrated Guide to Medical Self-Care', there are better books that you can purchase for a few dollars more that meet the claim. It is very easy to read and not intimidating at all like the other medical self-care books. That is probably why this book is so popular. I was given this copy free by my HMO a long time back and I have found it valuable enough to keep it for all these years. Anytime I experience some symptoms of bad health, I refer to this book first to see if I can find a quick solution. Only if I can't find it in this book, do I pull out my other two books - 'The Merck Manual of Medical Information' and 'The American Medical Association Family Medical Guide' which are absolutely the best in the field.<br />There is a very good section on preventive health care at the beginning of the book followed by 1-2 page descriptions of 175+ symptoms and home treatment advice. For each symptom, there is a simple flow chart that is easy to follow in case you are experiencing that symptom. The flow chart will lead you through possible causes of the symptom and what to do about it. The especially useful feature of this flow chart technique is the focus on when to apply home treatment and when to see a doctor. My family and I have always been interested in treating medical problems at home if possible before getting the medical establishments involved. This book helped us try to treat basic symptoms at home more effectively without fear of making a mistake.<br />I am not sure if I would recommend the purchase of this book, but if you receive a questionaire from your HMO that promises to mail you this book for filling out the form, I would say 'go for it'. I definitely recommend buying one of the following two books for home self-care - The Merck Manual of Medical Information and The American Medical Association Family Medical Guide. If in doubt, all of these books strongly advice you to seek a medical professional's assistance. Bottom line - I don't think it hurts to have a couple of self-care books that arm you with knowledge about basic health related problems and maybe even appease your hypochondriac side.	2003-04-06
US	49111865	R3Q9GV7BZX0TMN	0931580781	100612044	Life 101: Everything We Wish We Had Learned About Life in School--But Didn't (The Life 101 Series)	Books	4	55	60	N	N	Unabashed look at life - authors say things we avoid saying.	Three things about this book that stand out - <br />1. At first glance, it may seem like very deep philosophy but the authors use a writing style that makes it difficult to accept this as serious philosophy. The authors have a unique writing style where it feels like they are someone you know well that are telling you this stuff at a dinner table. Maybe, they are trying to get their points across by writing this way since the average person avoids heavy philosophy books.<br />2. You can open the book anywhere and start reading without losing the gist of what the authors are saying. The hundreds of topics are written in an independent way that makes it easy to read any one of them without missing anything that the authors are trying to communicate. There are plenty of proverbs, quotations and deep philosophical insights in each topic (each topic is not more than 2-3 pages long). <br />3. The most striking thing about the book is the way in which the authors address each and every topic. They talk about things that most of us have been taught not to discuss in public. Some of their statements sound like cliches but somehow the authors manage to keep the words in each topic interconnected and not seem out of place.<br />A lot of people have the attitude that they are better than this book. By writing in a simplistic way, it is possible that the authors are responsible for creating that impression in the reader's mind (this is simple and irrelevant stuff, no need to write a book about it). But this is one of the best books out there on Life. I would definitely recommend that you own a copy of this book and read it cover to cover whenever you have a few minutes to kill. It is very easy reading but fulfilling at the same time. Enjoy!	2003-04-06
US	49111865	RSPBI7MHI5TGY	038000772X	543590867	I'm OK-You're OK	Books	4	138	143	N	N	Deep insight on the inner workings of relationships.	Using the Transactional Analysis theory first introduced by Dr. Eric Berne, Dr. Thomas A. Harris has published the results of his pioneering work in this best selling book. This is probably one of the best books that explains how to use this theory in improving all kinds of personal relationships. <br />Dr. Harris starts off by going into the history of Transactional Analysis and the theories of those before Dr. Eric Berne. The second chapter explains the basic of Transactional Analysis which is the concept of the Parent, Adult, and Child ego states that are supposed to compose each and every one of our personalities. The Parent ego state contains all the information we accept as true that we have gathered from authority figures including our parents. The Adult ego state is the collection of all information that we have proven to ourselves as being true (using some sort of logic). The Child ego state is our natural good and bad side of feelings - love, anger, greed, empathy, etc. The author extensively uses the phrase P-A-C (Parent-Adult-Child) through the rest of the book.<br />Dr. Harris then introduces the concept of the four different life positions that each of us adopts at any given time. All of us apparently go through four life positions ending up with the last one in a sequential manner except some of us get stuck in the earlier stages (this results in problems that typically need therapy). These four positions are -<br />1. I'm Not OK, You're OK<BR>2. I'm Not OK, You're Not OK<BR>3. I'm OK, You're Not OK<BR>4. I'm OK, You're OK<br />The next few chapters of the book focus on the fact that we can change no matter what stage we are stuck in and the theory behind how to change. The chapters after that focus on a few specific types of relationships - with spouses, children and adoloscents. There is then a chapter discussing when treatment is necessary and the book wraps up with a couple of chapters on P-A-C with regards to moral values and social implicationsof P-A-C. These last two chapters are more subjective and probably the author's personal views at that time. I have typically tried to take the information in these two chapters with a grain of salt. <br />Overall, this is an excellent book on using Transactional Analysis in improving your relationships with the most important people of your life. I found this book easier to read than 'Born to Win' or some of the original works by Dr. Eric Berne. This seems to be a common sentiment among those who have read and like books on Transactional Analysis. More than most self-help books out there, this book promises to lead to the most amount of positive changes. This is probably due to the systematic approach that is followed through out the book and the fact that it is very easy to follow and implement at almost any age. <br />Enjoy this life altering book!	2003-04-06
US	49111865	R3IHD7BJMGIEQV	0425101703	954833545	The Ultimate Secrets of Total Self-Confidence: A Proven Formula That Has Worked for Thousands	Books	5	179	186	N	N	Real Title should be - 30 Days to Total Self-Confidence.	This is an easy to read paperback that's only about 200 pages long. An hour or two per day will help you get to the end of the book in about a week. It then takes 21 days to break your old habits and reinforce the new ones that you desire. <br />Dr. Anthony's premise is that most of our problems with self-confidence, self-esteem and success can be traced back to our belief systems, habit patterns and level of awareness. He says that unless you accept that your current level of awareness totally dictates what you get out of life, you cannot change anything. According to the book, one's awareness is a result of one's belief systems. So, our belief systems are what limit us from achieving our potential. <br />We are trapped by our belief systems because of strong habit patterns. These habit patterns are a survival mechanism so we don't have to spend too much time figuring out how to respond in different situations. But, they also keep us on the same path in life. So, in order to get on the success path (if you are not on it already), it is necessary to start changing our belief systems. It isn't enough to realize that we are wrong about some of our beliefs, but we actually have to change our old habits and form some new ones to replace these old habits. The author believes that it takes about 21 days to break an old habit and form a new one.<br />It is a very simple theory but it has worked for a lot of people who have faith in this theory. I have myself utilized it at various points in my life when I felt that I wasn't going anywhere in life. A lot of people that I recommendeded this book to have found it useful too. The title sounds a little corny, but I guess the publishers used it to get people's attention. But this book is really about changing your life and the tools that help you do it quickly and effectively. <br />There is a lot more meat to the book than I have described here but it is definitely a pleasurable journey that the author helps you take. This bookis one of my top 10 favorite books ever. I have bought several copies of this inexpensive book and given them out as gifts to my friends and family. Ignore the title and enjoy this gem of a book. Have fun improving the quality of your life!	2003-04-06
US	49111865	R15VMN7SY0ALT1	0814471374	718572281	The Little Black Book of Project Management	Books	5	14	20	N	N	The Project Management Primer with the most ROI.	If there is only one book you want to read and you don't want to spend more than a few hours to get up to speed on project management, this is that book.<br />We were introduced to this book in graduate school at Georgia Tech while taking some Industrial Engineering classes that had a lot of team oriented projects. The Industrial Engineering graduate program at Georgia Tech has consistently ranked No. 1 in the nation for at least the last decade. So, when they recommended that we buy, read and keep this book for a long time to come, I didn't question their judgment.<br />I wasn't too thrilled with what the book had to say when I first read it a few years back. My first impressions were - why are they making such a big deal about these simple concepts? The theory in the book seemed too simplistic at the time. But over the last few years as I started gaining experience as a project manager, I discovered the reasons why this book is so popular.<br />The reason why this book is so valuable - most people when first introduced to project management are not interested in reading a lot of material on the subject and want to get a Cliff's notes version of the subject. That's when you can get the most benefit from this book. It is better to read this book than not read anything at all on the subject. And it is a very easy book to read.<br />Over the years, I have been able to convince several people to read this book and gain project management skills because it is not that much of a commitment to ask from people. I have even led weekly project management learning sessions using this book as the main tool. It worked and people learned quite a bit more about project management than they knew before reading the book.<br />After years of project management experience and passing the PMP, I now realize what a gem this book is even for an experienced project manager. It can act as a refresher if you read it once a year. Sometimes, we all tend to forget the simplest and most obvious things and this book helps us remember the basic project management principles.<br />Don't be fooled by this 170 page lightweight, it packs quite a powerful punch! A lot of professionals who are not project managers have thanked me for recommending this book. It helped them understand what I do as a project manager without having to spend too much time. It may be an excellent idea to distribute copies of this very inexpensive book to members of your team so that it can enhance team communications.<br />If project management is your career, you should definitely move on to other books after finishing this book. You can keep the copy as an annual refresher though.	2003-04-05
US	49111865	R2FQW397Z92JDW	1556159005	152022281	Rapid Development: Taming Wild Software Schedules	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Project Management Reference for ALL Software Professionals	Anyone who has ever been on a software project is initially confused by all the chaos involved. When Ford can churn out good quality and inexpensive automobiles and McDonald's can serve millions of satisfied people around the world, and we can put man on the moon, why do the most reputable companies struggle to deliver even the simplest of software projects?<br />After being on two new model launches at Ford that went smoothly, I moved into IT at the beginning of the economic boom in the mid-nineties and asked the same question. Why is the IT world so inept at managing software projects? My boss at the time quickly whipped out this book and asked me to read it cover to cover before asking any more questions or wasting any more time trying to figure this out. I did as I was told and found the answers I was looking for. I also found answers to questions I hadn't asked yet but I would have eventually. I instantly purchased a copy of this book for my long term personal book collection. <br />The book contains a thorough discussion of various software development practices and their effectiveness using case studies very extensively. These case studies stick in your mind really well and drive home the point that the author is trying to make. The book also talks about the most classic mistakes on any software development project and then details several  strategies to avoid them altogether on your own project. <br />I still refer to this book whenever I feel nervous on a software project that something's not right. You don't need to be technical to understand the book and the book is written for anyone on a software project - from the project manager to the developer to the tester. I can't believe the pricing on the book. I am always comparing the value I get from any book I purchase and this is one of the most reasonably priced books for the 600 + pages of wisdom it provides. Share this book with your colleagues and friends, they will definitely thank you for it. Get a copy and start taming those wild software schedules!	2003-04-05
US	49111865	R15U6XLNGQJGFL	0690015283	391880437	How to Read Better and Faster	Books	5	141	143	N	N	The speed reading strategies that WORK!	Books by Norman Lewis are still bought avidly by English book readers even on the streets of India but are not very popular in America. The basic speed reading strategies are not that many and are not that difficult to master. For some unknown reason, it is not even offered as a class in most high schools and colleges! Imagine all the hours you will save if you could finish your required reading in half the time or less? <br />In 1989, I was preparing to take the GRE test to come to America and was intimidated by all the reading material I had to go through in order to prepare for the test. Then, as I was passing one of those street sellers that are such a common sight in India, I saw a copy of this book and the title caught my attention. I decided to make this my first book to read so I could finish the rest of the books faster. The strategy paid off and I increased my reading speed from 100 words per minute to over 2000 words per minute in less than 6 months! In the process, my engineering grades picked up as I was not only reading faster but also retaining complex material better. Needless to say, I did fantastic on my test scores and came to America to attend graduate school in 1991. <br />The basis behind the author's theory is that speed reading, high concentration and material retention are all linked. You can't do one without the other very effectively. So, if you start reading fast, you are forced to concentrate and this increases retention. The high concentration that is induced when you try to read faster results in some interesting physiological changes in the brain where the memory of what you are reading gets etched more permanently than the times when you don't have high concentration. This is not explained in the book, but I came to that conclusion after I became curious about what makes the book's techniques so effective and researched deeper into the subject. I don't want to go too much into the book's techniques because I think they are more effective if you read them directly from the book for the first time.<br />Since then, I have purchased several other books on speed reading but I still find this to be the best book on the subject. My perception may be skewed because I had already increased my reading speed to the physical limits of how fast my eyes could move. But the reason I like this book is because Norman Lewis does not make any ridiculous claims and his methods are very simple, common-sense techniques that are easy to follow. In some of the other books, I found a few of the techniques to be so silly that I never even tried them. <br />People who meet me and eventually learn about my reading speed always ask me how I was able to make such a dramatic change. When I tell them about this book, they try finding it at the local bookstore and are never able to find it! So, I end up parting with my copy and picking up a new one the next time I visit India. I am glad that one can find this book on Amazon.com now. I can tell my friends to get a copy from here. <br />Your reading speed tends to drop over time if you don't relearn these techniques once every few years. Of course, people with glasses will see results that are less dramatic than people without glasses due to the restriction in their field of vision. But everyone benefits from these solid, proven techniques. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did and recommend it to your friends that are interested in sharpening their brains.	2003-04-05
US	49111865	R1151N65G1OGSD	0070534489	341340820	The McKinsey Way	Books	5	23	29	N	N	This is what you are supposed to learn in college.	Ever wonder the purpose of going to college when you don't remember or use most of what you learned? At the very least, you are supposed to have gained general problem solving skills. This book titled 'The McKinsey Way' is actually nothing but a systematic approach to managing the most common problems you will run into while working in Corporate America. These are the tested and proven success techniques that have worked for the consultants at McKinsey explained in very simplistic terms. <br />If you have a college degree, the chances are that you are already aware and exposed to a lot of these techniques. Nevertheless, it is definitely worthwhile spending a few dollars to own a copy of this book. The observations made in this book are those that are universal and don't necessarily change with time. So, the benefits of reading this book and applying these techniques can be very long lasting. <br />The author's writing style makes it very easy to read and understand the different topics presented in the book. The chapters can be read independently and so can the different sections in each chapter. Hence, you can read the book a few pages at a time and still benefit tremendously. <br />You can start applying these techniques right away so the benefits of reading this book can be seen immediately. It may be hard to believe that McKinsey is known to charge up to $800/hour for just doing these simple things but they do accomplish valuable results. And that's why corporations are willing to pay such a high price for McKinsey's consultants.<br />Have fun reading this book and I hope you benefit from reading this book as much as I did! Did I mention that it has proved to be a great conversation piece?	2003-04-05
US	49111865	R2JFWCLF12DEUV	1858287391	141050968	The Rough Guide to Internet 2002 (Internet (Rough Guides))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inexpensive, pocket-sized, pseudo-textbook - A Perfect Buy!	I have been exposed to the Internet since 1991 when only universities or companies like Microsoft had access to it. So, I was used to surfing the Internet using FTP, Telnet, etc. When the World Wide Web came into existence in the mid-nineties, it grew faster than anything any of us could ever imagine (as we all know by now). I ran across one of the first editions of the Rough Guides about the Internet in 1997. Till then, inspite of being very familiar with the technology behind the Internet, I felt very uncomfortable about my knowledge of what the Web was all about. This Rough Guide was the reference I started using to change my ignorance about the Web. I bought every edition since then and have benefited tremendously.<br />So, why is this book so great? What does it offer? Well, considering that it is almost impossible for anyone to learn everything about the Internet, most people don't even bother to learn the basics. Not surprising, since you have to spend hundreds of hours reading too many books to even get a glimmer of understanding about this untamed beast called the Internet. This book addresses all the main topics in approximately 500 pages, and provides you the critical information that you need to know about the Internet in Plain English! If you like trivia, there is also quite a bit of it in this book on the history of the Internet. This book acts as a pocket reference, complete reference, listing of popular sites, dictionary and more - all for under [$$] <br />Being raised on British books, I thoroughly enjoy the systematic treatment of any subject that British authors tackle. This book is no exception - it is very thorough, complete and the facts are extremely accurate. Unfortunately, British books don't do that well in America (probably due to marketing disadvantages). But if you get a chance, check this book out and I am sure that you will be a fan of British books forever.<br />I have always bought several copies of each edition of this book that came out and gave them out as gifts to close friends and family that were new to the Internet. Every one of them has thoroughly enjoyed the new found knowledge gained through this book. I hope you have fun discovering more about the Internet by reading this book on a train ride or plane trip somewhere. Good luck!	2003-04-05
US	49111865	R29A36VC7S8AU3	1880410230	787121584	A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide) -- 2000 Edition	Books	4	61	64	N	Y	A necessary [thing] to pass the PMP.	If you are planning on taking the PMP exam, you absolutely NEED to purchase this book. PMI uses this book as a syllabus for the PMP exam. Hence, this book is literally a table of contents of everything that can be tested on the PMP. In addition to being a table of contents, it does have a brief description of each topic.<br />For the longest time, almost everyone who has taken the PMP exam felt that this was a badly written book. There are two reasons for this.<br />The first one is that typically nobody likes to read a table of contents. So, why did PMI do this? Because of the vastness of the project management knowledge out there and the difficulty of covering it all in one book, PMI has chosen to only outline what is out there.<br />The second and more important reason is that the authors/editors did a poor job of connecting these various topics and outline the ideas in a fashion that does not make sense!<br />Books are written so that you have to read the chapters serially from the beginning to the end of the book. Or in some unique cases, the chapters can be read independently without losing the author's train of thought. This is the only book I have ever read that follows neither principle! I believe this is the reason almost every single reader is confused when trying to read the book.<br />I have talked to several people who have passed the PMP exam and it is clear that everyone struggles through this book a few times before finding the correct order to read the chapters in the book for the material to stick.<br />I think it is best to use this as a reference on your bookshelf while you are reading other books on project management. Once you have sufficient experience in the project management field and feel comfortable with the various knowledge areas, it is time to read this book cover to cover and come up with your own order in which to read the different chapters.<br />My suggestion for the order in which to read the chapters? Read the first three chapters as they are an overview to project management and it is not that confusing. The rest of the chapters are supposed to address the different knowledge areas in an independent fashion. But this isn't true! The different knowledge areas are not independent. They are connected through the five different project management process groups! If you want to make sense of this book, it is better to follow the order of the process groups. It may mean flipping back and forth between different chapters but it works.<br />This is the only way that I have been able to retain the material long after taking the PMP exam. I hope this particular order works for you but if it doesn't, I suggest trying different ordering of the chapters to find whatever works for you. Do not assume that you have poor project management skills if the material doesn't make sense. It is not you, but the book that is the problem in understanding project management. I wish you the best of luck in overcoming this hurdle. Bottom line, you have to read this book in order to pass the PMP.<br />By the way, if you are a PMI member, you can download an electronic copy of this book free...The print functionality on this free Adobe Acrobat file is disabled though. Personally, I have always preferred the print version for reference books like this one. Good luck!pters as they are an overview to project management and it is not that confusing. The rest of the chapters are supposed to address the different knowledge areas in an independent fashion. But this isn't true! The different knowledge areas are not independent. They are connected through the five different project management process groups! If you want to make sense of this book, it is better to follow the order of the process groups. It may mean flipping back and forth between different chapters but it works. <br />This is the only way that I have been able to retain the material long after taking the PMP exam. I hope this particular order works for you but if it doesn't, I suggest trying different ordering of the chapters to find whatever works for you. Do not assume that you have poor project management skills if the material doesn't make sense. It is not you, but the book that is the problem in understanding project management. I wish you the best of luck in overcoming this hurdle. Bottom line, you have to read this book in order to pass the PMP. <br />By the way, if you are a PMI member, you can download an electronic copy of this book free...The print functionality on this free Adobe Acrobat file is disabled though. Personally, I have always preferred the print version for reference books like this one. Good luck!	2003-04-04
US	49111865	R1WMREIYUKR9BB	0971164738	338504801	PMP Exam Prep (4th Edition)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Day Before Exam - PMP Exam Prep Saved the Day!	I had taken a very reputable classroom style course to help me pass the test and it was definitely very useful in solidifying the Project Management knowledge I had gained over the past 4-6 years. If I had to do things over again, I would still have taken that class. But they had taken the approach of drilling down into each of the 9 Knowledge Areas and neglected to go across the Knowledge Areas by addressing the 5 Process Groups. Even their software was focussed on testing your expertise with the 9 Knowledge Areas.<br />Guess what? In order to pass the PMP, you need thorough expertise with the 5 Process Groups! Sure, if you understood the 9 Knowledge Areas 100%, you will indirectly have a grip on the 5 Process Groups. The only problem is that it is almost impossible for that information to stick in your head unless you go across and not just drill down! Preparing for the PMP using the Knowledge Area approach is like learning a language by reading a dictionary!<br />I was wondering why I was scoring so poorly on the practice tests till I decided to check out the PMP Exam Prep and PM FASTrack(the day before the test). When I started using Rita's PM FASTrack which tests your expertise in both Process Groups and Knowledge Areas, I realized what the missing component was. I then spent the next 4-6 hours carefully studying the more difficult chapters from Rita's PMP Exam Prep book and took another practice test. I only spent about an hour per chapter since I had already been exposed to a lot of the Project Management techniques that are tested. Suddenly, my overall score started improving! <br />I then kicked myself for not opening her CD-ROM and book till the last minute. But I decided not to panic and just study with high concentration. At this point, I reconciled myself to not passing the test this first time and promised myself that I would read her book cover to cover and take 100% of the practice questions in her CD-ROM the next time. <br />Fortunately, the next day when I took the test, I was able to stay calm and felt a lot more comfortable when I noticed that the questions on the test were VERY similar to the ones in her book and CD-ROM! I could not believe it, but I was glad :-) I was very happy that I used her material at least for that one day. When I got the score at the end of the 4 hours, I had scored 86. Whew! <br />... If I were to do it again, I would just take her class instead (much cheaper) where you get all this material free on top of the class. More than anything, following the approach in her book will relieve you of all the tension resulting from the unpredictability and difficulty in taking the PMP exam. <br />The PMP exam's main source of difficulty stems from the seemingly subjective nature of the questions. Only by thoroughly understanding the material in the official 'Guide to the PMBOK' will anyone be able to see that the questions are actually quite objective in nature. But to understand this really dense 'Guide to the PMBOK', there is no substitute to the 'PMP Exam Prep'! Her material also gave me a much better understanding of project management than any of the other material/class. Among a couple of other books, I still use her PMP Exam Prep book whenever I am going through a project life cycle as a reference.<br />Good luck with the exam and I hope that the information above helps you pass the exam with a lot more ease.	2003-02-26
US	49111865	R1LVDFZZY9UF7W	0321112717	597698379	Macromedia Dreamweaver MX Hands-On Training	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Excellent Introduction in Plain English - Very Detailed.	As the name indicates, this is truly a 'Hands-On Training' book. The writing style of the book is focused on explaining how to perform various actions and accomplish the desired results using the step by step illustrations. It is a simple, clear, and fairly complete introduction to using Dreamweaver MX for creating stellar websites. <br />If you are used to an abstract discussion of a topic, you will NOT find it here and may be very frustrated by the lack of defined principles to teaching Dreamweaver MX. One simple example of this problem is with the discussion of Absolute and Relative Links. If you are trying to understand the definitions, advantages/disadvantages, and usage at first glance, you will be disappointed with the exercise style format. It will take a couple of readings to glean that type of information from the book. <br />Throughout the book, every topic starts out by giving you the details of different results and ways to accomplishing them. It is up to you to figure out the principles behind Dreamweaver MX (if you are interested in that sort of thing). The book does clearly indicate in the title and in the introductory pages that it was NOT written for technical folks or programmers, but for non-technical/non-programmer audience.<br />If you meet the criteria for the intended audience, this is just an absolutely fantastic book to get you started with Web Design using Dreamweaver MX. You do not need to master HTML to use Dreamweaver MX and hence the book doesnt try to teach you HTML. The book is a bit on the pricey side but well worth the investment. <br />The book comes with a CD-ROM that has 30 day trial versions of Dreamweaver MX, Fireworks MX. It is helpful for those with dial-up connections to have the software on CD-ROM to avoid long download times. The CD-ROM also comes with the exercise files which are very valuable for practice. Though you could very easily use any site on the Web for practicing the various concepts, it is easy to just usethe examples from the book to stay with the Author's explanation.<br />The paper quality and page layout is very pleasing throughout the book. Sometimes, the wrong kind of paper can discourage frequent use of a book. This book does not suffer from that problem. The entire book is in black and white though and there are no color images anywhere in the book. The only color you will see is on the cover of the book. This hasn't been a problem for me yet. I would imagine this could be a problem for similar book on Fireworks MX or Flash MX that are more graphic intensive.<br />What really stands out about the book is the thorough coverage of almost everything that is involved in using Dreamweaver MX. And you dont even have to be a programmer! No wonder this almost 700 page book has such a good sales rank at Amazon.com. There are other really good books on the topic so do check out the others before deciding on this pricier choice. I hope you enjoy the book as much I do.	2003-02-25
