US	49122981	RUPQJVPCCSSQ3	0671664255	75263482	GOAT DANCE	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A guilty pleasure	Back in high school, I was a big fan of horror novels, namely anything by Stephen King (before his writing went south)but one of my favorite books in the horror genre was \\"Goat Dance\\" by Douglas Clegg. Yeah it was not Shakespeare but then again Shakespeare has never done anything for me. I bought \\"Goat Dance\\" on a whim when I first saw the book cover with the half-man, half-goat. That really freaked me out yet strangely enough compelled me to buy it. Part of the story involves a young girl named Teddy Amory who almost drowns but doesn't. She is revived but when she is revived, something powerful invades her body and takes control of her body and soul. That is just the sub-plot. The main plot revolves around a young man named cup who returns home to Pontefract to find that the place he grew up isn't what it used to be. In fact his home has become something of a nightmare. It has been awhile since I read this book but I do know that I loved reading it. It came off as a cheesy horror story at times but I enjoyed reading Cup's attempts to save his town from being consumed by the Eater of Souls.	2005-07-01
US	49122981	R1SH26M98O69OK	0965104206	781711255	1: Angry Women in Rock: Volume One	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There is no fury like a woman scorned	Up until my early years in college, I really didn't have a full grasp of the feminism movement. I always had this stereotype of bitter, angry women perpetuated by conservatives in the media who thinks that feminists don't shower and are masculine-looking. I was quickly proven wrong when I bought \\"Angry Women in Rock volume one\\" when I was in my early twenties. This book was truly my first taste in female empowerment and that the word \\"feminist\\" should not be viewed in a negative connotation. Author Andrea Juno explores the term \\"feminism\\" with several artists and bands in the alternative music, when 'alternative' truly meant for something and not the bland, dull BS that is polluting the airwaves nowadays. I found this book to be both informative and entertaining. My personal favorite interviews are with Valerie Agnew of the Seattle band 7 Year B***h (one of my favorite bands during the 'grunge' era) and Kathleen Hanna (ex-Bikini Kill vocalist, now Le Tigre vocalist). It was interesting to read about Kathleen Hanna's career choices which included working in the sex industry and her experiences with more conservative 'feminists' like Andrea Dworkin. Another interesting conversation Andrea has is with the San Francisco punk band Tribe 8. In Tribe 8's case, they discussed mostly about lesbian-related issues but the band as a whole. I was totally blown away by the description of their stage performances which involves a strap on, a knife, and occasionally a chainsaw. That was fascinating reading to say the very least. My personal favorite interview is with Valerie Agnew, the drummer from 7 Year B***h. She discusses her friend Mia Zapata's death (RIP Mia), music, and women's sexuality. There are also some really good interviews with artists that I had never heard of before like lesbian folksinger Phranc who occasionally dresses up in drag, Jarboe of Swans, Lois, and Naomi Yang of Galaxie 500. As for mainstream artists, Andrea talks to Chrissie Hyndes of The Pretenders and Joan Jett. Lastly Andrea also talks to a couple of women who run a couple of small, independent record labels Bettina Richards of Thrill Jockey Records and Candice of K Records. I really enjoyed reading \\"Angry Women in Rock volume one\\". Not only did it influence me musically (at the time) but also on a deeper level, mainly on women's issues. Very informative and entertaining at the same time. It is rare to find a book that is both.Joan Jett. Lastly Andrea also talks to a couple of women who run a couple of small, independent record labels Bettina Richards of Thrill Jockey Records and Candice of K Records. I really enjoyed reading \\"Angry Women in Rock volume one\\". Not only did it influence me musically (at the time) but also on a deeper level, mainly on women's issues. Very informative and entertaining at the same time. It is rare to find a book that is both.	2005-04-05
US	49122981	R3756P331SEQVD	0060952520	225587361	The Simpsons: A Complete Guide to Our Favorite Family	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A must have for Simpson fans	It is hard pressed to find anyone who does not like the animated series \\"The Simpsons\\". \\"The Simpsons\\" is one of the longest running tv series and one of the funniest tv series in history. Unfortunately the last few seasons have been rather inconsistent and lacks the creativity and magic of the earlier episodes, nevertheless the show is a lot smarter and cutting edge than most tv series nowadays. Thank heavens I can relieve the earlier episodes with this official guide to the popular tv series. \\"The Simpsons: a complete guide to our favorite family\\" covers the first eight seasons. This is a really excellent comprehensive guide to the show. As a big fan of the first several seasons, I love this book. I loved reading all of the couch gags from the first eight seasons. I didn't realize there was so many until I read them all. I also dug reading the highlights of each episode. I also loved reading the brief bios on the lesser known but equally funny characters like Cletus, Tattoo Annie, and Lionel Hutz. There is a great list of the actors and the cbaracters that they give life to. If you love \\"The Simpsons\\" and the first eight seasons, this book is a must have. It is a true testament to Matt Groening as well as the legacy of the show.	2005-02-22
US	49122981	R1MHCN14B8S5XE	074342414X	162794399	The Casefiles: Volume 1 (Angel (Pocket))	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An entertaining read for Angel fans	I have to admit that I was a late bloomer when it came to \\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\\" (didn't get into the show until the last couple of seasons), but I didn't make that same mistake when Buffy's vampire boyfriend Angel got his own series. I personally love the first two seasons. \\"Angel: The Case Files volume 1\\" pretty much covers the first two seasons. Nancy Holden, Maryelizabeth Hart, and Jeff Mariotte does an excellent job of providing general synopsis of each episode in seasons 1 and 2 as well as giving the reader behind the scenes details. I especially loved reading comments from the actors themselves, especially my two favorite guest stars Juliet Landau (Druscilla) and Julie Benz (Darla). I also love the color and black&white photos of the actors getting ready for the show. As an \\"Angel\\" fan, I thought this book was a great companion piece. Very informative and entertaining.	2005-02-10
US	49122981	R7VPSJUOILIBR	0345455304	532779274	In Dog Years I'd Be Dead: Garfield at 25	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A hilarious history of Garfield	If there is one thing from my childhood that has remained a part of my life as an adult, it is my love for that fat, orange, cranky tabby cat named Garfield. I recently received \\"In Dog Years I'd Be Dead: Garfield at 25\\" as a present. It is a coffee table book that looks back at the history of the fat, orange tabby. This book is an extremely comprehensive look at everything Garfield. It goes into details about everything from commercial ads to the classic cartoon series \\"Garfield and Friends\\". As a diehard Garfield fan and an artist, I appreciated seeing the earlier, rough sketches of Garfield strips. This book may be a couple of years old but it certainly covers pretty much everything that the fat cat has given to the public. I especially loved seeing some of the more sillier photos of Jim Davis and Garfield. Another favorite moment is the section with all the counterfeit Garfield products. For some reason, I find something fascinating about something as ugly as those counterfeit products. \\"In Dog Years I'd Be Dead...\\" is the ideal coffee table book for diehard Garfield fans. Great intro by columnist Dave Barry.	2005-01-05
US	49122981	R322X3PPQY313Z	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Extremely funny	I have been a big fan of Al Franken the comedian since his stint on SNL for a long time. I also loved his commentary on past presidential elections for Comedy Central. Up until now I didn't have the time to read his books. I recently picked up his recent book \\"Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them\\". I quickly found myself laughing out loud at some of the stuff that Al writes, especially about my 'favorite' media gadfly Ann Coulter. Like Michael Moore, Al Franken is a magnet for ugly criticisms from conservatives. Although Al does have a tendency to be a bit venomous at times towards conservatives, what stands out for me in this book is the amount of research and the members of TeamFranken do for this book. I thought the chapters on Ann Coulter really showcased the amount of researched they did. Michael Moore on the other hand has a tendency to makes really outrageous (but hilarious) statements and his writing sounds more like an editorial in the op-ed section of my local newspaper. My personal favorite chapter is chapter 5 \\"Loving America the Al Franken Way\\" when Al makes a list of America's history. I couldn't help but laugh. I also loved it when Al had taken Bernie Goldberg to task in chapter 6. Al makes a really good point when he says that the only bias in the media is purely based on sensationalism and attracting big ratings for the network. Why else would the news networks would talk nothing more than about sex, violence, and death? Because those topics sells with the general public. Why else would MSNBC be so fascinated with the Scott Peterson case? The story has been sensationalized by the media ala OJ Simpson. Same with former president Bill Clinton and former intern Monica Lewinsky. Sex sells in the media. The major networks are simply trying to attract big ratings which Al argues in the book. I found \\"Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them\\" very entertaining and informative from my perspective.	2004-11-10
US	49122981	R1G3UDRF5LSI31	0972952993	594433065	The Yes Men: The True Story of the End of the World Trade Organization	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Go see the movie!	The Yes Men are a small group of pranksters/anti-World Trade Organization activists bent on disrupting global free trade in some of the most unusual manners. Some of their past stunts included altering some GI Joe and Barbie dolls and switching their voices, and creating a website that was very similiar to then Governor George W. Bush around the time he decided to run for president. I loved Bush's response that there should be limits freedom. Of course the WTO wasn't none too pleased with The Yes Men.  This book is a companion piece to the brilliant film I just saw. It highlights the effort that Andy and Mike put into infiltrating various global free trade forums. You would be amazed by the amount of time and work they actually invested because it took them months especially for the textile conference in Finland which was extremely funnier than heck. I had never laughed as hard as I did when Andy unleashed that phallus to an unsuspecting audience. What was even funnier was the idea for McDonald's to literally recycle the food waste into food for starving third world countries. When Andy and Mike presented that idea to a college class, the reaction was priceless. Michael Moore makes a cameo appearance in this film like he did in \\"The Corporation\\". As funny as that guy is, what he said was nothing new. I think his footage could have been left off or expanded more on the evils of free trade. Yes The Yes Men are immature the results of their pranks are hilarious but with a serious message.  A definitely must see movie and read book.	2004-10-24
US	49122981	R1UNVCJ97FNF7C	0345369947	128741164	The Mummy or Ramses the Damned	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Not your atypical Mummy story	I rarely read any books of Anne Rice's that isn't part of the Vampire Chronicles sereis. I've tried but they never captivated me like her popular vampire books have. The one book by Anne Rice that I do like that has nothing to do with vampires is \\"The Mummy or Ramses the Dead\\". This time Anne explores another legendary monster...the mummy but in her book, she makes the mummy, or Ramses as he is called, the hero not the monster we have seen in old horror movies. In a similiar vein to her vampire characters, Anne has Ramses the second immortal. He had drunk the elixir of life making him wander the planet for all eternity. Ramses who had been asleep for thousands of years is excavated in the early 1900s by Lawrence Stratford. Ramses witnesses Lawrence's unexpected passing. Later he finally awakens to save Lawrence's daughter from being murdered by her greedy cousin. In the vein of the vampire chronicles, Anne mixes horror and romance which I actually enjoyed. Critics may have panned this book but I loved it. I especially enjoyed it when Ramses makes the mistake of reawakening an old love only to realize what a mistake that was and the one person he does love is Julie Stratford. Even though the storyline is pretty cheesy and is just a Harlequin novel with a horror twist, \\"The Mummy\\" is a good book. It's a different take on the myth of the mummy.	2004-10-07
US	49122981	RJAOW9L1FHKPV	0743247442	120358955	The Corporation: The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A scathing expose of corporate America	I saw the documentary \\"The Corporation:The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power\\" over a month ago not too long after \\"Fahrenheit 9/11\\". The film is based on the Joel Bakan book of the same title. Joel goes into depth about the history of corporations which basically goes back to the early 1800s and all the way up to the present day. The results is a scathing expose of irresponsibility and greed that corporations handles business. Joel Bakan argues that corporate America has taken over the world and as a result has sent this country and this country one a one way trip to Hades with its lack of concern for human rights and the environment. Human rights and the environment have been trampled countless times by companies like Exxon (i.e the Exxon Valdez scandal in Alaska), Nike (sweatshops in South America), and the list goes on. Then there are corporations like Shell that sets up environmental programs that they claim that will give back to the planet to shield their true interest which is the bottom line. What really scared me the most was how Rupert Murdoch (the founder of Fox News) is trying to use the media to shove his political view points by buying up as many television and radio stations he can own. Case in point over a news story on genetically altered milk. Two reporters in Florida are forced to alter their expose just to make it look good for the news station manager's eyes. Ever since the government gave up its control over corporations, corporations today have been able to pursue its self-interests of the bottom line regardless of who gets hurt in the long run just as long as the stockholders are happy. You think the media is biased? It sure is...any station owned by Rupert Murdoch is going to be biased. After that disgusting story about genetically altered milk, I will never look at milk in the same light again. Reading \\"The Corporation\\" and seeing the documentary help gave me some insight to how a corporation works and the long-term effects it has on people and the environment. Not only should the corporations be held accountable for trampling on human rights and the environment but so should the stockholders that the CEOS pay lipservice to. Read this book and see the movie and I guarantee you that you will be disgusted by corporate America.people and the environment. Not only should the corporations be held accountable for trampling on human rights and the environment but so should the stockholders that the CEOS pay lipservice to. Read this book and see the movie and I guarantee you that you will be disgusted by corporate America.	2004-08-30
US	49122981	R1VKYA1J9SNQTA	0812417755	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of my favorite books of all time	There are few books that I have read in my lifetime that left such big imprint on me. One of the most imaginative, if not original books that I have ever read that I always go back reading to is Kurt Vonnegut Jr.'s &quot;Slaughterhouse-Five&quot;. A friend and former co-worker of mine at a local grocery store I had worked at one summer gave me a copy of this vivid story. This was my first (and only) exposure to Kurt Vonnegut Jr.'s writing. The second I started reading the book, I was immediately hooked.<br /><br /> The premise of the book centers around Billy Pilgrim. One minute he is reliving his days as a solider and currently serving his country in Dresden. Eventually he is captured by the enemy and ends up in the cellar in a slaughterhouse. Then the following scenario has Billy being kidnapped by aliens from the planet Tralfamadore where he would be put on exhibit like an animal at the zoo along with a popular adult entertainment celebrity Montana Wildhack. If that wasn't confusing enough, Billy manages to do some time traveling between earth and Tralfamadore. Somehow Kurt manages to keep the entire story flow cohesively together. I was wildly entertained and still am whenever I feel like reading this book. There was a good enough humor from the sub-plot as an exhibit for the Tralfamadore aliens entwined with the poignancy of Billy's days as a solider of war and his role as father and husband. Thirty five years later after it was published, &quot;Slaughterhouse-Five&quot; still remains relevant to society as it did back in 1969. It is truly an immortal classic for me.	2004-07-24
US	49122981	R8B35U010ZUMH	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another exciting chapter in the life of Harry Potter	I have to admit, I am not someone who reads a particular series in its chronological order. I didn't do that with Anne Rice's vampire chronicle series and I certainly didn't with JK Rowlings' Harry Potter series. I actually started getting into Harry Potter when I read the latest book \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\". Since then I was hooked. I received the paperback collection of the first four books for last Christmas. I started with \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\" which I finished. I moved on to \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\" (which I must confess just finished reading), and last weekend I finished \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\". I recently began \\"The Goblet of Fire\\" but I haven't gotten far. Of all the books that I have finished reading, I have to admit that \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\" is probably my least favorite (if that is possible) book in the series. It is a very good book but it didn't captivate me like \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" did.<br />In the sequel to \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\", Harry Potter is paid a visit by a house elf named Dobby. Dobby warns Harry to not to come back to Hogwarts. During this time, Dobby unintentionally gets Harry into a heap load of trouble with his relatives and finds himself banished to his room with only Hedwig as his companion. Thankfully the Weasley brothers rescues Harry and brings him back to their world  of magic. It doesn't take Harry very long to find trouble. Students at Hogwarts are suddenly turning to stone by some magical being. Of course Harry and his friends immediately defies the rules set upon themselves to figure out who is turning their classmates into stone ala Scooby Doo. Despite that I prefer \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" over \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\", I still enjoyed this book. I am not into fantasy books for the most part but I really do like the Harry Potter books. I like how the books aren't geared for one particular age group. JK Rowlings has a wonderful imagination. Her colorful words really shows how imaginative she is as an author.as an author.	2004-06-09
US	49122981	R3FKSMGOI1QLQI	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My favorite Harry Potter book	I finally finished reading Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\\". I started reading it last weekend and recently finished the third book last night. So far, I felt this was my favorite in the popular Harry Potter series (I still have to read the fourth book \\"The Goblet of Fire\\"). As much as I enjoyed reading \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\", I really didn't think that it captivated me nearly as much as \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" did. Even JK Rowlings recently admitted on tv that \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" was her favorite book to write. She even mentioned that it gave subtle hints to what to expect for the sixth Harry Potter book. I think the reason I enjoyed reading \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" so much was that it gave some glimpse into Harry's past. He is tormented by the last moments of his late mother when the dementors taunt Harry which tortures him emotionally. Overall the writing by JK Rowling was simply some of her best work I had ever read. I like the first two books and \\"The Order of the Phoenix\\" but I has to say she really does an amazing job on \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\". I can't wait to start reading \\"The Goblet of Fire\\". Anyone who can get millions of children (and adults) to turn off the idiot box (i.e the television) is simply brilliant and that is JK Rowlings.	2004-06-05
US	49122981	R1YQNQUQTD8G86	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My other favorite Dean Koontz book	Back in high school and early college, I was a ravenous Dean Koontz fan. Two of my all time favorite Koontz books were (and still are) &quot;Night Chills&quot; and &quot;Lightning&quot;. I have to say &quot;Lightning&quot; has a slight edge over &quot;Night Chills&quot; but not by much. I first read the book when I checked out from the library and eventually bought my own copy from a used book store. That is how much I loved the book. I'm not particularly a big fan of books that talks about time travel but I thought Dean Koontz made the subject very fascinating in the novel. The story of Laura Shane and her 'guardian' made for compelling reading. The only flaw of the book is that towards halfway through the book it started becoming a cheesy soap opera but I can overlook that. One of my favorite moments in the book was Laura's interaction with the Ackerson twins. I couldn't help but get choked up when death befell Laura unexpectedly. I felt like I was part of Laura's life as she grew up through out the book. I know it sounds corny but it is true. I couldn't stop reading this book when I first read it and I still can't to this very day when I want to take a trip down memory lane.	2004-06-03
US	49122981	RJV48C2WVSSDA	0439434866	667539744	Harry Potter Boxset 1-4	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Harry Potter galore	I have to admit I was a bit skeptical on the popularity of the Harry Potter series. I changed my mind when last year I read the fifth book \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\". JK Rowling has quite the vivid imagination. I was impressed that she has this ability to write a series a books that both children and adults could enjoy. For last Christmas I asked for the paperback boxed set of the first four Harry Potter books. I am currently less than half way through the third book \\"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\\". I have yet to get to \\"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\\". As much as I enjoyed the first two books, I have to say \\"The Prisoner of Azkaban\\" is my personal favorite (so far). It is too bad that evangelicals who have criticized JK Rowlings and her books can't see the books for what they are and that is pure entertainment. Reading the Harry Potter books have been a pure joy. I cannot wait to see \\"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\\" this summer. I don't plan on seeing it until I finish the book. I personally would rather have the paperback boxed set than to have bought each book separately. Like anything comes cheap nowadays. I hope I don't have to wait so long for the sixth Harry Potter book but I wouldn't hold my breathe for it either.	2004-06-03
US	49122981	R1T3JXEOTVG7SI	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The #1 reason to fear clowns	Up until I saw the tv mini-series adaptation of the Stephen King novel \\"It\\", I didn't think much of clowns. Then I saw \\"It\\". I never saw clowns in the same light again, and I don't mean that in a good way either. So after getting the bezjeebus scared out of me by Tim Curry as the walking freakshow Pennywise the clown, I just had to read the book version. For the most part, the movie did stay faithful to the book but obviously the film had to edit certain parts of the book to keep the movie within a certain amount of tv time. It is hard for me to pick which I enjoyed more. Both the movie and the book were enjoyable. I loved getting the living daylights scared out of me. \\"It\\" is truly one of the few books/movies that literally freaked me out (not to mention made me hate clowns with passion). Although \\"It\\" is a very thick book, I will have to say that once you are into the book, getting through the pages won't be a problem. I found \\"It\\" to be completely engrossing whenever I read it. Sure the book is slightly different from the mini-series but I can't really complain. \\"It\\" is by far my favorite Stephen King book of all time.	2004-06-02
US	49122981	R57JJHFYXX4TT	0425098648	469342893	Night Chills	Books	5	3	4	N	N	My favorite Dean Koontz book	I am not the Dean Koontz fan that I once was which was just over a decade ago. He and Stephen King were my two favorite authors in high school. I voraciously read their books like there was no tomorrow. &quot;Night Chills&quot; was my first Dean Koontz book that I read. I discovered it when I read in a blurb in a magazine that former Megadeth bassist Dave Ellefson was a fan of this particular book. The concept of subliminal messages and using them to brainwash an entire town fascinated me. I enjoyed reading the story of Paul Annendale and his children who takes a trip to Black River only to discover the evil deeds of Olgen Salsbury. The results was very interesting. I loved the book the first time I read it, and I still love reading the book over and over again. What was disturbing about this book was that it made me think about subliminal messages and whether it was possible or not that my own government could use subliminal messages on its own constituents. After all the US government in recent years has managed to intrude on my personal life even more so than a decade ago. &quot;Night Chills&quot; is a fascinating fictional take on the possibilities of subliminal messages and what happens when it is used for evil purposes. &quot;Night Chills&quot; is a truly a literary classic by Dean Koontz.	2004-06-02
US	49122981	RG9OM2WMP6BUF	1573440140	911383478	Dark Angels: Lesbian Vampire Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Interesting collection of erotic vampire stories	I'm always on the quest for a good vampire novel. I have read my fair share of good vampire books and atrocious vampire books. My favorite are Anne Rice's vampire chronicle series. I first stumbled upon Pam Keesey with her first collection &quot;Daughters of Darkness&quot;. I was curious when I saw a picture of Kim Deal reading this book in a local magazine several years ago. When I came across the book, I thought I would check it out. Being a big vampire fan, I am extremely open-minded about this particular subject matter. In this case, I thought the idea of lesbian vampires was intriguing.<br />I enjoyed &quot;Daughters of Darkness&quot; a lot. A few years later in 1999 when I was still living in another state, I had the opportunity to meet Pam at a book signing for her latest book (at the time) &quot;Dark Angels&quot;. This time the stories in &quot;Dark Angels&quot; focused more on vampires while &quot;Daughters of Darkness&quot; focused more on lesbianism. I found myself enjoying &quot;Dark Angels&quot; slightly more. The stores aren't as lengthy as say &quot;Carmilla&quot; by J. Sheridan LeFanu or &quot;Louisana: 1850&quot; by Jewelle Gomez. I didn't care if the vampires in a lot of these stories weren't your atypical vampire ala Dracula. It gets pretty old reading vampires who just sucks blood and terrorize people. Throughout both books, there is a huge female empowerment theme that runs throughout the stories. For those who have a disdain for feminism or wants vampires to be one dimensional and cartoony Pam Keesy's books aren't for you. For vampire fans who considers themselves feminists, Pam Keesy's books are certainly worth looking into.	2004-04-09
US	49122981	RO86HDE9PUN8F	1573440760	788209544	Daughters of Darkness: Lesbian Vampire Stories	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Daughters of darkness	I never imagined myself that I would buy a book of erotic vampire stories but I have. Several years ago I saw Kim Deal reading Pam Keesey's book in the pages of a magazine. I admit I was curious about the book being the huge vampire fan that I am. I try to avoid the more cartoonish, horror vampire novels that plagues the book market (i.e Tanya Huff). I found a copy of the book at a local bookstore and decided to get it, not so much for the titilation of the sexual depictions described in the book but more from a feminist point of view in terms of female empowerment. In the introduction, Pam explores female empowerment through mythology, namely the supernatural as in vampires and other demons. I was tired of reading the same ridiculous cheesy vampire novel where women were usually the helpless victims or the sultry demon. I was more interested in reading stories of female vampires and how they differentiate from their male counterparts. I thought the stories were interesting to say the very least. And they are definitely different. One of the more interesting stories in the book was \\"Lousiana: 1850\\" by Jewelle Gomez. This particular story wasn't something I was expected. Normally I am used to reading about vampires who kill without prejudice and without conscience. Gilda was far from any vampire character I have read in any book. She didn't get off on killing people, let alone kill her victims. She merely would take a drink from her victim and leave. \\"Lilith\\" is more in tuned with any modern vampire novel where the vampire's intentions is completely sinister. The vampire seduces her victim and vamps her. The one story I didn't enjoy was \\"Carmilla\\" which honestly I found to be a complete bore. I have tried to read it in its entirety but I could not muster up the energy to finish the story, let alone get into it. Otherwise I enjoyed the majority of the stories in \\"Daughters of Darkness\\" (as well as in \\"Dark Angels\\"). If anything, Pam Keesey's books weren't entirely intended for titilation because the stories certainly underline female empowerment or feminism in some sort of way. As a vampire fanatic, I enjoyed Pam's books. They are a big guilty pleasure of mine.ended for titilation because the stories certainly underline female empowerment or feminism in some sort of way. As a vampire fanatic, I enjoyed Pam's books. They are a big guilty pleasure of mine.	2004-04-09
US	49122981	R35F6GRU5GBEC4	0345318056	474659143	Garfield Loses His Feet: His Ninth Book	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Garfield loses his feet but not his sense of humor	What else is there to say about Garfield that I haven't already said before? Garfield is the inner cat in us. He says things that we all wish we want to say but can't. He also does things that we wish we could do but can't. Garfield is probably the one cat I wouldn't mind owning although it would probably be a costly living expense having to feed him non-stop of lasagna and pizza. I love going through all my Garfield books, especially the early books when there were no spider jokes and Lyman was still around.  Like in all of the books, &quot;Garfield Loses His Feet&quot; is peppered with sarcasm, diets, dog kicking, and farm jokes. One of my favorite moments in the book is when Garfield imagines himself married to his girlfriend Arlene. I loved it when Garfield pretends to be Amoeba Man and walks around the house wearing hear blanket. I had to laugh out loud when Garfield attempts to lay down on a hammock but because he so fat, he ends up sinking to the ground in the hammock. The time Garfield literally eats so much that his stomach outgrows his feet was priceless. My all time favorite moment in the book has to be when Nermal comes to visit. I love seeing Garfield and Nermal match wits. There are so many hilarious moments in the book it is really hard to pick a favorite strip.	2004-04-02
US	49122981	R12VMI3R3UEY2Z	0345326342	64084795	Garfield Rolls On (Garfield (Numbered Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Garfield keeps on going and going and...	Having been a fan of Garfield for twenty years, it is difficult for me to pick a favorite book out of the forty books of Garfield comic strips. I will say that &quot;Garfield Rolls On&quot; is certainly in my top 20 favorite Garfield books. For me I can never tire of laughing at the fat, orange tabby and his neverending quest to gorge himself on lasagna, sleep until noon, kick Odie off the table as many times as he can, and make wisecracks at his owner Jon Arbuckle. One of my favorite moments in the book is when the power goes off. I literally laughed out loud when Jon tries turning on the radio and then suggests playing cards all when there is no power available. And the trip to visit Jon's parents on the farm is pretty funny too but I loved it when Jon's family pays a visit to their son in the big city. That was like a fish out of water. My all time favorite moment in the book is when Garfield runs into his biological mother after he finds himself locked out of the house. It was both funny and poignant, and it spawned the tv special &quot;Garfield on the Town&quot;. No matter how many times I have read the same joke over and over, Garfield remains relevant to me as he did back in the '80s. I can never tire of the fat cat.	2004-04-02
US	49122981	R33NTHMZEUK553	0345320182	130239032	Garfield Eats His Heart Out: His Sixth Book	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Garfield eats his heart out and mine too	There is nothing funnier than an fat, orange tabby cat with black stripes sleeping thirteen hours a day (or more), stuffing his face fat full of food, and getting stuck in a tree. When I read my morning paper, the first thing I go to is the comic section and read my daily Garfield strip. I own all 40 books of collections of Garfield strips from the last twenty five years. The animation in Garfield's first few years is a bit on the crude side but he was still funny nevertheless. It is weird seeing Garfield physically evolve until &quot;Garfield Takes the Cake&quot; and &quot;Garfield Eats His Heart Out&quot;. I think Jim Davis really defined Garfield's appearance in the 5th and 6th books. Jim has yet to fail me with Garfield's antics. I love it when Jon puts Garfield on a diet or tries to go on a vacation without his lazy cat. Of course what is Garfield without a visit from Nermal, the world's cutest kitten? One of my personal favorite moments in the book is when Jon wakes up and is startled to see Garfield wearing his reading glasses. Another great moment is when Jon and Garfield visits Jon's parents on the farm, and Garfield falls into a pig waller and gets covered in mud. Garfield is hilarious when he makes some snide remark about his girlfriend Arlene's gap between her teeth. There is never a shortage of laughs in any Garfield book. Jim Davis never seems to fail me with his abilities to make me laugh through his famous fat cat.	2004-03-30
US	49122981	R2JI7FQ4TV5I72	0345319281	111571143	Garfield Makes It Big: His 10th Book	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A non-stop laugh riot	It is hard for me to pick out a favorite Garfield book because everything Garfield does makes me laugh. &quot;Garfield Makes It Big&quot; is a non-stop laugh riot. One of my personal favorite moments in Garfield history is when Jim Davis used the classic Xmas story &quot;T'was the Night Before Christmas&quot; and just visualized the story using his comic characters. It was both funny and appropriate at the time he did that back in '83. I love Garfield's neverending practical jokes on Jon, like loosening up the top of the salt shaker. And of course I just love it when Nermal comes to visit and manages to make Garfield look bad in front of Jon's eyes. The reader also sees Garfield attempt to mail Nermal to Abu Dhabi for the first time. And of course there are the times that Garfield terrorizes the mailman. I love it when Jon takes Garfield on vacation. The strip where Jon tries to board the plane in peace is hilarious because he doesn't want to be known for having to sit in third class. Whenever I am down, I can always count on Garfield making me laugh.	2004-03-30
US	49122981	R5W69XBHY4T6N	0345449789	708016515	Garfield Takes the Cake	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Garfield takes the cake...and eats it too	I don't know what it is about Garfield that still gets me to buy his books ever year. I have been a fan since I was in second grade, will be 22 years in September. I think what appeals me to the lazy fat cat is his sharp wit and cynicism. Just like Garfield, I hate Mondays with an immense passion and I love lasagna. One of my personal favorite books in the entire series is \\"Garfield Takes the Cake\\", the fifth volume of Garfield comic strips. I loved it when Garfield's grandfather pays Garfield a visit. I thought it was a nice touch. I got to see where Garfield got his looks from. I also loved it when Garfield met Arlene. Talk about oil and water. Arlene is definitely Garfield's equal when she is able to match wits with the fat cat. And I love all the fat jokes Jon makes and Garfield's reaction. The camping expedition is a definite classic Garfield moment. No matter how old I get, I can never get tired of reading Garfield. He is my escape from a crazy world known as reality.	2004-03-28
US	49122981	RKF2Z59WW2M3Y	0345452054	816760188	Garfield Weighs In: His Fourth Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Non-stop rollercoaster of laughs	I think it is obvious that I love Garfield the cat. For a dog person such as myself, Garfield is the one cat that I would love to own (or maybe not). It is so interesting, if not funny seeing how Garfield has evolved beginning with \\"Garfield At Large\\". He began as this big blob of ink. His eyes were small, had a t-shaped nose, and his ears were just as small as his eyes. I would have to say the evolution of Garfield stopped with \\"Garfield Sits Around the House\\". All of Jim Davis' books are hilarious. Through out the 20-some years that Garfield has been around, diehard fans such as myself would noticed that the gags and jokes have changed over the  years. In the first several books, there were no spider jokes. Or the poor Mrs. Feeny who is constantly tormented by Garfield nowadays. In \\"Garfield Weighs In\\" (as well as the other first three books), Garfield is either being tormented by Nermal, the world's cutest (and annoying) kitten or being tricked into taking a bath. And then there is the sludge monster, a figment of Garfield's overactive imagination. I love it when Garfield mugs a girl scout for her cookies. Only Garfield would do something as silly as mugging a girl scout. Another classic moment in the book is when Jon attempts to train Garfield to be an attack cat but fails miserably. And of course there is the visit to Dr. Liz's office and the constant putdowns Jon gets from Liz. Garfield never ceases to amuse me. I still laugh at his crankiness and enormous appetite for all things pasta.	2004-03-28
US	49122981	R128HRP9ZIF94X	0345450272	489608099	Garfield: Bigger Than Life (Garfield Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	More laughs	Gotta love Garfield the cat. He says things that a lot of us don't have the guts to say. He is lazy, loves to sleep although I think eating outweighs his love for sleep even more, doesn't enjoy getting physical exams, and enjoys abusing the family dog.  As hysterically funny as the first two Garfield books are, I really think that &quot;Bigger Than Life&quot; takes Garfield to a whole new level of laziness and gluttony. The animation is a lot better as well. Here the reader is introduced to the world's cutest (and annoying) kitten Nermal. Originally Nermal belonged to Jon's parents however over the years, Jim Davis just had Nermal drop in unexpectedly. The early drawings of Nermal was just as crude as the early Garfield drawings were. One of the greatest moments in this book was when Garfield sneezed and Jon's breakfast ended up on his face. The other greatest moment that I still love is when Jon leaves the house to go jogging, and Garfield finds a loose thread. Garfield pulls it until...well, Jon returns home unepxectedly in his birthday suit. An absolutely priceless moment for me. I also thought when Garfield caught a code was hilarious.<br />Whenever I feel down, I know I can always count on Garfield making me laugh with his antics.	2004-03-27
US	49122981	R5NLU96CP5M25	0345320123	891560207	Here Comes Garfield	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Garfield classic	To say that I am a fan of Garfield the cat would be putting it mildly. Although I am more of a dog person (since I grew up with dogs), I have to say that in terms of comic relief cats are funnier, Garfield the cat in particular. I have loved Garfield since I started reading his comics back in the early '80s. His constant putdowns and insults are a neverending source of laughter for me. It was inevitable that Garfield would make the move from newspapers to television. His first special was \\"Here Comes Garfield\\". I still have my copy of the book. Like the early Garfield animation, the drawings in \\"Here Comes Garfield\\" is a bit crude but a lot better than what he looked like in the late '70s. The story revolves around Garfield trying to rescue Odie from the city pound after a neighbor calls the pound on the mischievous pair for terrorizing his small terrier. The story is both funny and poignant. I'm almost thirty and I am still a big fan of the fat, orange tabby cat who is the size of an aircraft carrier.	2004-03-27
US	49122981	R3FCXCSY8AFOYL	0345443829	264327722	Garfield at Large: His 1st Book	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The one and only...Garfield the cat!	I am a dog person. I grew up with dogs through out my adolescence. However out of the comics based on the antics of dogs and cats, I have to say that cats makes for funnier comic strips, namely Garfield the cat. I discovered Garfield when I was 8 years old. (...), I am still a fan of the fat, orange tabby who hates Mondays and loves lasagna. I own all 40 Garfield books (a few not in good condition) but I still own the original format that the books were printed in. Before the books started being re-issued (either in fat packs or colorized versions), the books were released in a rectangular shape & in black and white. As I am going through the books, it is so interesting comparing the early animation from \\"Garfield at Large\\" to the latest \\"Garfield: Survival of the Fattest\\". Although the animation is rather crude in the first few books, Garfield's sarcastic wit and love for kicking Odie off the table and scarfing down lasagna and coffee remains intact. Garfield isn't the only character who literally goes through a physical metamorphisis in the series, Odie and Jon goes through a few changes themselves. The reader is also introduced to the now missing Lyman, Odie's original owner. One of my personal favorite moments in this book is when Jon's mom sends Garfield a sweater. Of course she does that through out the cartoon series. Seeing Garfield's reaction to the sweater is priceless. And then there is the time that Jon ties a blueberry muffin to a string and teases Garfield as if he was fishing and Garfield was the fish. People may say that Garfield continues to rehash the same jokes every day but you know what? I love the fat tabby cat. He makes me laugh and I can never tire of fat jokes or Odie getting kicked off the table. Gimme that over political-themed comics any day.	2004-03-27
US	49122981	RTHS1Q1QVI694	0345449754	856215759	Garfield Gains Weight: His 2nd Book	Books	5	0	2	N	N	More laughs from the fat, orange tabby	&quot;Garfield At Large&quot; introduced the public to a fat, orange tabby cat named Garfield who has an enormous appetite for everything that is pasta, has a dork for an owner, and loves to sleep as much as he hates Mondays. The animation is a lot different from the Garfield we all know and love today. His body is bigger, smaller eyes, a t-shaped nose but his personality remains the same. &quot;Garfield Gains Weight&quot; is the second book of Garfield comic strips. Towards the end of &quot;Garfield At Large&quot;, the animation begins to slowly evolve. In &quot;Garfield Gains Weight&quot;, you can see the difference between the Garfield of the late '70s and the Garfield of the early '80s. The eyes are bigger and the ears are more pointy but Garfield's sharp wit remains firmly intact. One of my favorite strips in the book is when Jon makes a fat joke about Garfield and Garfield kicks Jon so hard that he spins. The reader is introduced to two new characters; Liz, Garfield's vet and Jon's unrequited love interest, and Irma, the sassy diner waitress. No matter how many times Jon asks Liz out for a date, Liz always finds a way to shoot Jon down which is always hilarious. I also love those moments when Jon tries to give Garfield a bath and Garfield fights back. Other great moments in the book is when Jon has Garfield performing tricks. That is probably the most exercise I have seen Garfield do in the 20 plus some years I have been reading the popular comic strip. My favorite strip in this book has to be when Garfield was so bored that he shoots a small pebble through a straw at Odie and total chaos breaks loose. That still cracks me up to this very day. Although I am a dog person at heart, Garfield the cat is my favorite cat. I have yet to be tired of the sarcastic fat cat.	2004-03-27
US	49122981	RA9QA5BQQP9AY	0345464583	703503997	Garfield: Survival of the Fattest: His 40th Book	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Survival of the fattest	What haven't I said about Garfield that I have already said before? Congratulations to Garfield in giving the public his 40th book of non-stop laughter. I grew up on Garfield the cat since the early '80s. Twenty + some years later, Garfield is still fat and still funny as ever. In his 40th book, Garfield is still up to his same tricks; making fun of Jon, abusing Odie, squashing spiders, and matching wits with Nermal the world's cutest kitten.  I particularly love seeing Garfield squash spiders. It was good seeing Nermal make a brief appearance. I always loved it when Nermal would come to visit Garfield and antagonize the fat cat with his one-liners. No matter how old I am, I can never tire of reading the fat cat's antics. Jim Davis can do no wrong.	2004-02-13
US	49122981	R2W1CZHF8MTYTS	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A magical ride for both children and adults	I recently got into Harry Potter when I bought the latest Harry Potter book over the summer to check out what the hype was all about over this popular series. It is safe to say that I was immediately hooked. So for Christmas, I asked for the paperback set of the first four Harry Potter books (which I got of course).  I have yet to begin reading the other three books since I am 3/4 way of finishing \\"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\\". I am enjoying the book immensely. It is nice to know how Harry ended up at Hogwarts and met his two best friends Ron and Hermione. Although the Harry Potter series was geared towards children, it is also makes for excellent reading for adults who just want to escape from the confines of reality. J.K Rowling does an excellent job at fleshing out the characters, including the Dursleys (Harry's awful relatives) who usually appears in the books in the beginning and the end. Another quality I like about J.K's writing abilities is that she doesn't make Harry out to be some perfect, flawless hero. Like anyone else, Harry is human and has his own faults. He and Ron often get into trouble through out the book and are punished for their actions. I still fail to grasp how some conservatives such as John Hagee would think that the Harry Potter books could promote witchcraft or satanism is beyond me. Thanks to J.K Rowling, children (and adults) are putting down the remote control and picking up her books. I'm glad to have discovered the joys of reading the adventures of Harry Potter.	2004-01-01
US	49122981	R24ZC41HWS9QMF	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A masterpiece!	I recently finished reading \\"Mystic River\\". I had to read the book after I saw the equally excellent film version of the Dennis Lehane book. Although Clint Eastwood made some slight alterations in the film, overall he remained quite faithful to the haunting book which not many directors do nowadays. I found the book itself to be thoroughly engaging and compelling. Although a murder occurs, the whodunit question takes backseat to the drama of the psychological effects and human emotions in the three major characters in the book; Dave Boyle, Jimmy Marcus, and Sean Devine. Abducted by a couple of perverts as a child, Dave Boyle is the most psychologically damaged of the three men. The reader is taken to a place in the human psyche that is dark and scary. Jimmy Marcus and Sean Devine are the two boys that didn't get into the car with Dave Boyle, and for that they have had to face with the guilt of not joining Dave in the car. Years later, the three men are adults. Jimmy is an ex-con who owns the corner grocery store. Sean Devine is a cop. And Dave Boyle is a father and husband. This is my first Dennis Lehane novel, I thought the dialogue and his storywriting abilities were nothing short but brilliant. What really made me choke up was his in depth characterization of Jimmy Marcus. His love for his daughter Katie was so heartbreaking. Sean Penn as Jimmy is worthy of an Oscar. He made the character of Jimmy Marcus his own. I found the role of Jimmy's wife Annabeth quite refreshing. She was not the emotionally weak spouse that a lot of writers tends to make women to be. Annabeth was strong and tough. She had an edge to her. What she says to Jimmy towards the end of the book about not being weak and that Jimmy is the king and can be anything he wants to be sent chills down my spine. Dave Boyle is the perfect role model for what happens when one's personal demons consumes you. His past finally takes over him and he becomes a completely different person. Dennis Lehane does a wonderful job at fleshing out Dave Boyle's character as did Tim Robbins in the movie. Sean Devine is pretty much the clean-cut, good guy in the book. Not as dark as Dave and Jimmy, Sean was still an intersting character to read about. Kevin Bacon did a marvelous job as Sean. Overall I loved \\"Mystic River\\". I haven't read anything as compelling and riveting as \\"Mystic River\\" in years. A must read for people who enjoy a good thriller and intense drama.onderful job at fleshing out Dave Boyle's character as did Tim Robbins in the movie. Sean Devine is pretty much the clean-cut, good guy in the book. Not as dark as Dave and Jimmy, Sean was still an intersting character to read about. Kevin Bacon did a marvelous job as Sean. Overall I loved \\"Mystic River\\". I haven't read anything as compelling and riveting as \\"Mystic River\\" in years. A must read for people who enjoy a good thriller and intense drama.	2003-10-24
US	49122981	R37ZOIQQQ3ZTY	0375411992	838568330	Blackwood Farm (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Better than I originally thought	I wasn't too sure whether or not I wanted to read \\"Blackwood Farm\\" because the book focuses mostly on a new vampire, similiar to \\"Vittorio\\" and \\"Merrick\\", two books I couldn't get into. When I found a copy at my local library, I decided to check the book out. Much to my surprise, I found myself engulfed in the book. Anne continues her ever-so popular vampire chronicles series by fusing the popular series with the Mayfair witches. The only familiar character in \\"Blackwood Farm\\" is Anne's infamous anti-hero Lestat. He is called upon by a young man named Quinn Blackwood, who is also a vampire. He asks Lestat for his help because of his doppelganger named Goblin who has been with Quinn since he was a young boy. Over the years, Goblin becomes stronger every year, especially now that Quinn is a vampire, and Goblin feeds off the blood that Quinn consumes. The stronger Goblin becomes, the more frightening he becomes to Quinn. That is where Lestat comes in. Quinn goes to Lestat for help who in turns asks Merrick to rid of Goblin. Without ruining the story, I found the book more interesting than I thought. I couldn't put this book down. I especially enjoyed reading about Quinn's childhood. As usual, Anne manages to create another world with her abilities to go into great details with Quinn's background and the entire history of the Blackwood Farm. Although I prefer the earlier books in the vampire chronicles, I found \\"Blackwood Farm\\" enjoyable. It may not be as good as her first five books in the series but \\"Blackwood Farm\\" certainly was more entertaining to read than I originally thought. Despite having an occasional miss in her vampire chronicles series, Anne still has me as a captivated fan of her richly spun tales. She gives life and humanity to her vampire characters. I will always enjoy reading her books.	2003-09-11
US	49122981	R2IZHQRPOPS3AZ	039304016X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The perfect storm	I absolutely love the film \\"The Perfect Storm\\". I didn't fall in love with the film until I saw it on TNT earlier this year. What really intrigued me about the story of the missing crew of the Andrea Gail is that I have a brother who used to work on a fishing boat. I recently found a cheap copy of Sebastian Junger's \\"The Perfect Storm\\" at a local bookstore. I bought it because I just wanted to see how different it was from the film version. I knew it was going to be different but I didn't know how much so. I found the book absolutely compelling but not as much as the film. The film is more fictional in terms of what actually happened on the Andrea Gail when it got caught up in a hurricane.  The one thing I really wish the film had which the book covered was the personal lives of the crew. I had no idea what sort of person Bobby Shatford and his girlfriend Chris Cotter was. Very little was given about William Tyne and the rest of the crew in the film. I think the film focused way too much on the concept of what happened to the Andrea Gail. Sebastian Junger on the other hand gives each person that was in the film, a brief history. Sebastian also goes into details the history of the fishermen of Gloucester, Massachusetts from the past couple centuries. I am glad that I read the book after I have seen the movie. I think the book would have made me hated the film, like John Grisham's \\"The Firm\\" did (read the book first, then saw the awful movie). Reading \\"The Perfect Storm\\" made me appreciate the risks that fishermen all over the world takes just to feed the world with the fresh fish from the unpredictable and dangerous seas.	2003-07-07
US	49122981	R2YF55T787Q9U1	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A non-stop rollercoaster ride	I have always wanted to find out what the hype about Harry Potter is all about. Being the impatient person that I am, I decided a few weeks ago to get the new Harry Potter book \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\". I decided to jump ahead instead of starting at the beginning with \\"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\\" because I just wasn't patient. Now that I have read the book, I am still a bit at loss why the huge media hype over a series of books. Still anything that gets children to read is a good thing. I can't compare this book to any of the Harry Potter books since I didn't read them (yet). I will certainly give my opinion to what I have read. Critics say that there is a darker tone in \\"The order of the Phoenix\\". I don't know about that but I will say that J.K Rowlings wonderfully delves into the adolescent angst that occurs among young boys when they were or are Harry Potter's age (of 15 years). His confusion with the opposite sex and what they want, and his anger towards two of his best friends because they were at Hogwarts while he was being miserable at his aunt and uncle's house is excellent examples of the fact that Harry Potter is not completely flawless and that he has his fair share of character flaws. The early hostility Harry had towards his friends showed that Harry is not perfect and that he is only human. What really sucked me into the book was the human interactions among Harry and the other characters. I honestly thought J.K Rowlings did a magnificent job of writing towards a younger crowd without patronizing them or insulting their intelligence yet manages to attract an adult audience. As far as characters goes, I absolutely loved the villainess Professor Umbridge. She was one sadistic lady when it came to detention. Harry's interactions with Cho Chang was compelling. I really think the confusion that Harry felt could is what a lot of young boys feels today when they are just hitting puberty and starts becoming more interested in the opposite sex. J.K Rowlings is brilliant to make Harry someone any young boy could relate to. Although I have read a lot more violent books than \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\", I must admit there were moments in the book that unnerved me a bit. Overall I absolutely loved \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\". Now while I do think the media hype is a bit too much, the substance in the writing is certainly worth the ridiculous media circus that the series attracts. I definitely plan on reading the other books in the Harry Potter series.opposite sex. J.K Rowlings is brilliant to make Harry someone any young boy could relate to. Although I have read a lot more violent books than \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\", I must admit there were moments in the book that unnerved me a bit. Overall I absolutely loved \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\". Now while I do think the media hype is a bit too much, the substance in the writing is certainly worth the ridiculous media circus that the series attracts. I definitely plan on reading the other books in the Harry Potter series.	2003-07-07
US	49122981	R2KBV5GM1KCC4Y	140004636X	656530798	Bon Appetit: Keep It Simple: Easy Techniques for Great Home Cooking	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely delicious!	Over the Christmas holiday at my parents' house, I came across Bon Appetit's \\"Keep It Simple\\" cookbook. Being an avid fan of cooking and the magazine Bon Appetit, I perused the book and devoured practically every picture I saw in the book. I immediately knew I had to get a copy of my own. Unfortunately when I got back home, I wasn't able to find a copy in any of the major bookstores so I bought it here on Amazon.com. Within a couple of weeks, I have already made three of the dishes I found in this book. I particularly loved the recipe for sweet and sticky barbecue sauce. Instead of using beef ribs, I used babyback ribs which are my favorite. The sauce turned out to be great. I loved the combination of sweet and savory flavors. And last weekend, I made the oven-fried chicken. Oh! That was the best oven-fried chicken I have ever tasted. I definitely am looking forward to making more of some of the recipes I see in \\"Keep It Simple\\". What I really love about this cookbook is the easy instructions as well as the pictures showing each step for certain recipes. I think this book is excellent for novice chefs like myself. It is straight-forward and unpretentious. Well worth the money and wait for this culinary addict.	2003-01-22
US	49122981	R2ADJMYWBWGQ16	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An immortal classic	Now while I can't say that this is my favorite book in the whole vampire chronicles series, I will have to give credit where its due. This book definitely is the mother of all fictional vampire books. I have reqd quite a few and none of them were as good as Anne Rice's popular vampire chronicles series. I also confess that the first book I read in the series was &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;. I loved the title of the book. What sets apart Anne's books from other fictional vampire books is the amount of effort she puts in (like researching about the legend of Osiris and Isis for &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;). Plus her style of writing isn't dumbed down like a lot of books that I have read. The other vampire books that I have read should have been written in comic book format, not in a novel format. They were horribly cheesy IMO. Although not my favorite book in the series, &quot;Interview With the Vampire&quot; is still a classic. I will agree to a certain extent with a reviewer that Louis is a bit of a whiner but the same can be said about Lestat. The film version of the book was exceptional. The cinematography was just excellent but it had its flaws like the miscasting of Armand and that the events in the beginning and end of the book did not happen. At least the film version of &quot;Interview With the Vampire&quot; is more entertaining and stays true to form than that wretched &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; (a horrid idea to combine the 2nd and 3rd books in the series into one novel). Back to the book, I loved Anne's tribute to her dearly departed daughter and writing her as the child vampire Claudia. What a fitting yet haunting tribute. As I have said before, &quot;Interview With the Vampire&quot; may not be my very favorite book in the vampire chronicles series but had it not existed there would not be Lestat, Armand, Louis, Marius, and the other familiar vampire characters. &quot;Interview With the Vampire&quot; will go down in vampire lore as one of the most beloved books ever written, alongside Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot;.most beloved books ever written, alongside Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot;.	2003-01-12
US	49122981	R3KENRO1VG4UP9	0345452011	6103119	Garfield Eats Crow: His 39th Book	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Another hilarious collection of the fat cat and his friends	Although I am close to thirty years old, Garfield the cat is one of my favorite childhood characters. I don't know if it was his love for lasagna or his sarcastic wit that attracted me to the fat cat but after all these years, I am still a huge Garfield fan. It has been over a year since his last book. I have been anticipating this book for some time now. Of course I was not let down. Garfield can never let me down with his lazy, selfish, and often abusive nature. Odie is still the dumbest animated dog there is, and Jon remains to be the dorkiest cat owner to walk the face of the earth. My favorite moments in the book definitely involves spiders and Garfield finding ways to squish them. Then there is Jon trying to get a date but ends up getting shot down by most women he encounters in person or over the phone. I wish Jim Davis would bring back Nermal the world's cutest kitten so I can see Garfield mail him to Abu Dhabi. Oh well, seeing Garfield squish spiders is good enough for me. If there is one thing I really appreciate from Jim Davis is that his cartoons never involves politics or social issues. Everything that is funny is at the expense of Jon, Odie, and spiders. I will never grow out of my Garfield obsession. I am a fan for life.	2003-01-04
US	49122981	R2EU4VRK9H1ON6	0743444329	477664928	Geisha: A Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Finally! A book written from a geisha's point of view	I am a big fan of Arthur Golden's \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\" and Liza Dalby's work as a cultural anthropologist, especially with her book \\"Geisha\\". Thanks to \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\", I have been completely fascinated with the concept of geishas. They are definitely misunderstood by western culture as well as the Japanese. Geishas are definitely not prostitutes. Unfortunately they have always been confused with prostitutes for hundreds of years. After reading Arthur's fictional tale of love and deceit and Liza's experience as a geisha, I was hoping to read a book from a professional Japanese geisha's point of view. With the bruhaha over \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\", one of the most famous and celebrated geishas in the past century Mineko Iwasaki satisfied my insatiable appetite on the subject by writing her autobiography. I simply loved the book from start to finish. Unlike some reviewers, I had no qualms over the fact that the author talked about herself. I was expecting that she would. Since this is book is an autobiography, I expect the author to have talked about herself and her experiences as a geisha. As I read the book, I couldn't help but notice the similarities between Mineko and Sayuri (from \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\"), and Yaeko (Mineko's oldest sister) and Hatsumomo (the deliciously wicked older 'sister' from \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\"). It is pretty obvious to see the similiarities between Mineko and Sayuri's lives as geishas. The inclusion of pictures was a nice added touch. I wish there was more but they did allow me to see what the people in Mineko's life looked like. I found the book overall compelling and fascinating to read.... it was nice to read a book from a (former) professional geisha's point of view.	2002-12-30
US	49122981	R1NPABG9E67MQ4	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	61	64	N	N	I could not put this book down	I know when a book by Anne Rice is good or not. If it is good, I am not able to stop reading her book. If it isn't like &quot;Merrick&quot; was, then I will stop reading it altogether. &quot;Blood and Gold&quot; was an irresistable read for me. I thoroughly enjoyed every single page in this new installment of the Vampire Chronicles. I was so disappinted in &quot;Merrick&quot; I didn't even bother finish reading it because the storyline was not very compelling for me to read. To see that Anne Rice picked up where she left off with Armand's story with Marius' story I did not hesitate to pick up &quot;Blood and Gold&quot;.<br />Most Anne Rice fans would know that we were given a brief glimpse of Marius' life in &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot;, the second book in the Vampire Chronicles series. &quot;Blood and Gold&quot; delves further into Marius' past which delighted me since he is one of my favorite characters. The reader is introduced to other vampires other than Mael, Pandora and Armand, like Bianca, Euxodia, and Avicus. &quot;Blood and Glory&quot; shows the anguish that Marius went through with his separation from Pandora. I didn't know that in &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; or &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;. In fact he was downright obsessive when he was finally reunited with his beloved Pandora.<br />Unlike in the stories about Pandora and Armand, Marius wasn't talking to David Talbot, the former Talamasca leader which was interesting. Instead the reader is introduced to a new character by the name of Thorne who was just as old as Maharet and Mekare, the twin sisters from &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;. Thorne wakes up from his sleep in an icey cave and winds up in a tavern talking to Marius, and eventually moving to Marius' house where Marius tells Thorne his life story.<br />I really enjoyed &quot;Blood and Gold&quot;. I rank it as one of my all time favorite books in the Vampire Chronicles. After being disappointed with &quot;Merrick&quot; and somewhat bored (still entertained) with &quot;The Vampire Armand&quot;, &quot;Blood and Gold&quot; rekindered my fascination with Anne Rice's popular vampire series. I couldn't put this book down when I first read it.d (still entertained) with &quot;The Vampire Armand&quot;, &quot;Blood and Gold&quot; rekindered my fascination with Anne Rice's popular vampire series. I couldn't put this book down when I first read it.	2001-11-25
US	49122981	R309MU9TT9U3Z3	0345445821	966100269	Garfield Gets Cookin': His 38th Book	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Garfield can never disappoint me	I have finally gotten used to this new format that Jim Davis started using with the previous Garfield book. As usual, Jim doesn't disappoint me with Garfield's antics. Poor Jon and Odie are Garfield's usual targets, and spiders too. I love the moments  in the book when Garfield is busy squishing spiders. Those have become some of the funniest moments for Garfield. And I was laughing pretty hard when Jon hits his thumb with the hammer and he yells out &quot;mommy!&quot; and tries to retract that statement by saying &quot;ouch!&quot; but Garfield replies with &quot;too late&quot;. Another favorite moment is when Garfield and Jon tries to outdo each other by eating the hottest peppers there are. Classic Garfield. And as usual, Jon has trouble getting a date or one that can fit through the doorway of his house. I may be 27 years old but I will never outgrow Garfield. This is one cool cat that should never change.	2001-11-15
US	49122981	R2IPBG8H23EK21	0375505997	862834630	The Truth Is... My Life in Love and Music	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Startlingly frank and honest	I will confess that I'm not wild about Melissa Etheridge's music just because I hear a lot of her songs way too many times on the radio to a point of ad nauseum however in the past year things changed like my attitude towards her. After reading a sample of her biography in an issue of Rolling Stone and seeing a few tv interviews, I immediately became curious and picked up the book.<br />It is amazing how a person perceives a particular celebrity because of his or her public persona and then have that perception change after reading and/or hearing about the sordid details of his or her past. Melissa Etheridge is one of those celebrities you would think you got pegged but then after reading her book and seeing her on tv a few times in brutally honest tv interviews, there was information about her that I had no idea about. VH1's episode of &quot;Behind the Music&quot; on Melissa didn't even scratch the surface of her past like &quot;The Truth is...My Life in Love and Music&quot;.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book on every level. Sure the book tends to come off as something that Andrew Morton would write but at least the information was coming from the horse's mouth, figuratively speaking of course. I was quite surprised to find out information regarding her older sister sexually molesting Melissa but maybe even more surprised to find out what sort of family environment she lived in where emotions weren't really expressed. I was also surprised to read the sordid details regarding Melissa's relationship with Julie Cypher. I never realized how troubled it was because of the public appearances I saw but keep in mind that Melissa is only human. No one is perfect.<br />&quot;The Truth is...My Life in Love and Music&quot; was compelling. I found myself listening to Melissa's new album &quot;Skin&quot; a few times while reading her book which just fit together nicely. The music and the book are perfect accompaniments. After finishing Melissa's book, I could envision what sort of hell she went through while listening to her album.rt of hell she went through while listening to her album.	2001-10-11
US	49122981	RUED1GW1JFO28	0060392886	8442482	The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Thoroughly entertaining	I am definitely no fan of Motley Crue. I find their music to be the equivalent to nails on chalkboard. Their personal lives however is a whole 'nother can of worms to open. Yes, Motley Crue is another childish, immature, self-absorbed, wild, narcisstic, out of control band from the '80s hair metal scene but &quot;The Dirt&quot; is just too irresistable to not read. The former drummer Tommy Lee proves himself to be the consumate moron since his own actions he described in this book showed to me that his IQ is just a few points below a brick. I laughed at his journal entries from the time he spent time in the pokey. He comes off sounding utterly childish and immature, nor does he sounds like he had learned anything while in the pokey. The stories behind Nikki Sixx and Vince Neil were probably the most interesting parts of the book, especially the chapter of Vince's beloved daughter Skylar. That chapter just tore me. Nikki's life is just incredible. It is amazing that he still breathes today. I loved this book even if I don't love the band's music.	2001-07-12
US	49122981	R39ALENQ5GTYXN	0425180883	22156232	Iron Chef: The Official Book	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Thoroughly entertaining and informative	As a huge fan of the television show, I knew I had to acquire the book. I personally found the this book to be informative and entertaining. I didn't know that there were a total of 3 different Japanese Iron Chefs. Michiba I knew but I wasn't aware of Nakamura. Nor did I know anything about the first French Iron Chef Ishinabe. I would love to see the older episodes of the cult  television series. I was quite impressed to see that there were even recipes of various dishes that were made. I just have to wonder how on earth those dishes could be translated on to paper since they were created right off the heads of the Iron Chefs and the challengers. That couldn't have been very easy. I also enjoyed reading the comments from food critic Asako Kishi in particular since she was like one of the key judges on the show. It could not have been easy to try to describe the dishes without using the word &quot;good&quot; and be more expressive in judging the food.  I would have loved if the book had mentioned like the other judges like Shinichiro Kurimoto, Tenmei Kanou, Kazuko Saiki and other judges that came in to judge the dishes on the show. Oh well no one's perfect. I'm content with what I have read overall so I can't really complain.	2001-05-23
US	49122981	R3F28F2K6HCDLP	0345441095	701428586	Garfield Beefs Up: His 37th Book	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another laugh riot from Garfield	I was so used to the old format in the Garfield series, black &amp; white and the book being vertical. Nevertheless I enjoyed Garfield and his constant abusings of Jon and Odie. Reading Garfield in this new format of color and in a taller book form was a pleasant surprise. I can never tire of Garfield and all his antics, especially when he is swatting spiders. I may be inching towards 30 but I will never stop buying Garfield books. As long as he keeps me laughing I'll keep buying.	2001-05-18
US	49122981	R2VXXXNOIDR2DW	0345409272	464589829	The Vampire Armand (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A bit wordy at times but entertaining overall	I thoroughly enjoyed reading &quot;The Vampire Armand&quot;. Not much of his life was given to the readers in previous books, just crumb by crumb. Here the reader gets the whole enchilada, figuratively speaking. I must admit when I was reading how he was captured as a slave to be sold, that part of the book was a bit too lengthy and kinda bored me to tears. Armand led quite the hedonistic life with Marius, up until he was separated from his master by those rogue vampires. From the hedonistic life he had with Marius, Armand moves on to leading a coven of vampires whose beliefs do not coincide with what Marius installed in Armand's morals. And then we see Armand in modern day society from when he tried to set himself on fire after viewing the veil that God gave to Lestat to his new life with his two new companions Sybelle and Benji. Compelling for the most part but it could have used a little improvement I suppose.	2001-03-20
US	49122981	RDR6RPGTWSH15	0440213894	837905881	The Making of a Monster (Abyss)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Just plain bad	I don't know which book I hate more Tanya Huff's &quot;Blood Debt&quot; or Gail Petersen's &quot;The Making of a Monster&quot;. I think what really offended me about this book is at the top there is a comment from Tyson Blue who says &quot;Impressive...Better than Anne Rice!&quot;. Let me tell you, this book is neither impress nor is Gail Petersen a better author than Anne Rice. This book just oozes cheese.<br />There is nothing worse than the cartoonish caricature of a vampire being a musician. Anne Rice made this ridiculous stereotype more interesting with her eloquent writing while Gail Petersen just made me wretch with this book. How many times must the public endure the same ol' crud like the character Kate stuck in limbo with her so-called &quot;suffering&quot;? This storyline (if you want to call it) is laughable and the writing was a bigger joke.	2001-03-06
US	49122981	R3FCAO7JKSP7PF	0886777399	762142516	Blood Debt (Victory Nelson)	Books	1	3	22	N	N	The Dumbest Book I have Ever Read	I love vampire books as much as the next vampire fanatic but this book is atrocious. I have never read anything as stupid... as \\"Blood Debt\\" by Tanya Huff. A vampire being haunted by ghosts of victims of mysterious murders is the lamest plotline I have ever saw. What made this book even more stupid was the rules that Henry Fitzroy and Vicki Nelson has to follow. I guess not everyone can write as well as Anne Rice, and Tanya Huff is proof of that theory however is it so hard to write decent dialogue than the ... I read in this book? Is that too much to ask for? I think I'll go read Bram Stoker's \\"Dracula\\" again.	2001-03-05
US	49122981	R44E8R3A7Z1FZ	037570180X	479596746	Geisha: The Life, the Voices, the Art	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Gorgeous Photographs However....	Jodi Cobb's photographs of the Geishas were gorgeous. She showed the reader rare moments not seen to the public eye like a maiko sleeping or two young geishas reading a magazine together. The reader also gets to see geishas in the middle of getting dressed and putting on makeup. It's these intimate moments that makes this book stand out. The reader gets to see glimpses of young and old geishas that other geisha books don't show.<br />My biggest beef with this book is that it looks like it was thrown together at the last second. My least favorite were the single quotes that starts from the middle of the page and until the end. &quot;What was the point of those quotes?&quot; I wondered. I really did enjoy the introduction and the backgrounds of two geisha mothers. I wished that through out the book there was more information about geishas. The lack of gave me the impression that Jodi didn't put in enough research but that's just my impression. In the end I did enjoy the book but there were many opportunities for Jodi to have made this book even better.	2001-03-01
US	49122981	R2FKDCDFGBRJUF	0345422384	140729396	Pandora (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another favorite from Anne Rice	After &quot;Memnoch the Devil&quot; I wasn't sure if Anne Rice would continue with her ever so popular vampire chronicles. When seeing &quot;Pandora:New tales of the Vampires&quot; in a local bookstore, I immediately snatched it up. I was not disappointed in all with this book. Pandora is one of my favorite vampire characters and little was known about her in &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;.<br />In the first book of the new tales of the vampires, the reader gets to know the enigmatic and ancient vampire. Pandora is strong willed vampire whom Marius, her off and on again companion, underestimates. Pandora does what it takes to survive, including protecting herself from her murderous older brother.<br />I really did enjoy this book. After the heavy theological debate of &quot;Memnoch the Devil&quot;, &quot;Pandora&quot; was a thoroughly light-hearted, entertaining read.	2001-02-28
US	49122981	R60DH6TOFVTMQ	034538475X	221203857	The Tale of the Body Thief (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not one of Anne's best books	I really want to rank this book as highly as \\"Queen of the Damned\\" and \\"The Vampire Lestat\\" but I just can't. I found the book to be only so-so. Still the concept of Lestat experiencing the daily rituals of human life was interesting. He hasn't been human for over two hundred years and totally forgot about all the little nuances that humans experience daily. Lestat was completely naive to think that this body thief would be willing to return his body back in several days as promised. His friend David Talbot (introduced in \\"Queen of the Damned\\") even warns Lestat to not go through with this body switching.<br />The subject of body switching is rather old. After all, Hollywood has run this subject into the ground. I like this book but not as much as \\"Queen of the Damned\\" and \\"The Vampire Lestat\\". I can't say I hate it completely either. I just found \\"The Tale of the Body Thief\\" a bit dull on my part but don't take my word for it.	2001-02-28
US	49122981	RXYM9UCNZVZS5	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Mother of All Vampire Books	Next to &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;, &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; is my other all-time favorite book in the vampire chronicles. In the first book &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot; Louis tells his side of the story which was his life with Lestat and Claudia. In &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; the ultimate and the most consumate vampire in the vampire chronicles tells his story.<br />What I really enjoy about the Anne Rice's vampire chronicles is that the vampires aren't cartoonish caricatures like Dracula or Nosferatu. Anne delves deep into her characters' souls and brings out both the best and the worst in them and makes them come to life. What really draws me to &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; is that Anne really goes into details about Lestat and describes him not as the demon that Louis portrayed him as in the first book. I also enjoyed the underlining homosexuality subtext in Louis and Lestat's relationship. She doesn't come right out and say that her characters are gay or not, she makes the reader read between the lines.<br />The work that Anne puts into her books really shows. Obviously she puts in a lot of research for her books. How else could she know about the legends of Osiris and Isis in &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; and the religious theme of &quot;Memnoch the Devil&quot;? In &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; I believe she had to research to understand the time periods of when Lestat, Louis and Claudia existed as a coven as well as give Marius a thorough past. &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; is definitely one of Anne Rice's finest literary works.	2001-02-09
US	49122981	REAEC3E67TR0S	0679441018	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles, Book 5)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	This book makes for an excellent theological debate	I must confess that I hated this book the first time I read it but after reading the entire book a few more times, I grew to love it. I thought Anne's concept of the character Memnoch (aka Satan) was believable. Just like all human beings, he is flawed as is the almighty God who was portrayed as ruler who rules heaven with an iron fist. As I have read this book over and over, I have come to a conclusion that God isn't all that Christianity has made him to be and he is just as fallible as the Lucifer but this is just  my humble opinion. I find this book exceptionally compelling is that it brings up the subject in subtle tones the relationship of God and Memnoch. I personally didn't find the scene of Lestat taking a drink of God's blood shocking as most people would. I thought it was just part of the storyline of the battle between God and Memnoch. Whether Anne Rice meant it to be shocking or not is difficult for me to say. Only Anne would know. In conclusion, Anne Rice has remained my favorite author to this very day. She has proven with this book her articulate writing abilities and obviously shows the readers the amount of research she put into her stories like &quot;Memnoch the Devil&quot;.	2001-02-05
US	49122981	R15E3YVNGZTHCJ	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My personal favorite in the vampire chronicles	I have read all the books in the vampire chronicles and currently reading into &quot;Merrick&quot;, Anne's latest book. Of all the books in the vampire chronicles &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; is my personal favorite. I got glimpses into other vampires other than the brat prince Lestat and his companion Louis. And in this book, the reader is introduced to David Talbot but I won't give away his role that he plays in the books following &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; in case people reading my review haven't read &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot;. I love going back and reading this book over again. I am eager to see the film adaptation of this book and if the storyline of this book was hacked to pieces by Hollywood, not to mention see any one miscast in the roles like Antonio Banderas as Armand in the film adaptation of &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot;.<br />In &quot;Queen of the Damned&quot; the readers are also introduced to other vampire characters that are mentioned in the following books; Maharet, Mael, and Pandora. I really enjoyed Anne's idea of how vampires came into existence which you really don't read in other vampire novels. I also enjoyed how the entire book was coming from one perspective like in the first two books (not as if there was anything wrong with that). My only part of this book was the inclusion of the chapter talking about Baby Jenks. That could have easily been edited out in my humble opinion. Overall enjoyable book. One of the best in the series.	2001-02-04
US	49122981	R3GWVK0HVDP0NB	0345421264	651712617	20 Years & Still Kicking! Garfield's Twentieth Anniversary Collection	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unbelievably a Laugh Riot	I have been a huge Garfield fan since the early '80s. And as I am a few years short of turning 30, I remain an avid fan of the orange fat tabby. I love the ten explainations to why Lyman disappeared. My absolute favorite section of the books is Jim's top 20 cartoon strips he had done. My personal favorite [and one of Jim's favorite] is when Garfield sticks his head into the mouse hole only to be on the receiving end of a makeover. There has never been a moment when Garfield has never made me laugh. To a certain extent I have emulated myself after him. I hate Mondays, I love to eat and sleep, and I am extremely lazy but I don't mail cute kittens to Abu Dhabi and kick dogs off the table like Garfield does. Overall this book is a must have for Garfield fanatics.	2001-01-22
US	49122981	R2ZBMEJHM0HJ0R	0520204956	618151081	Geisha	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unbelievable	After reading &quot;Memoirs of a Geisha&quot; I have become consumed with everything Japanese, geishas in particular. This book was the next to follow in my voracious appetite to learn everything geisha. What an experience Liz Dalby must have had when she gradually became a member in Pontocho's geisha community. I seriously doubt that there will be another American geisha in this lifetime. To read the difficulties becoming a geisha involves opened my eyes that nothing is all what it seems. Training to be a geisha isn't as easy as what most people probably thinks. Despite the lengthiness of the book, I could not put down the book. What makes this book special in comparison to other books on geishas is that the author isn't an outsider looking in. She drew upon her own experiences and that is why I love Liz Dalby's book more than the coffee table books on geishas.	2000-12-01
US	49122981	R1669VA0W1DJ0	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	All-time favorite	This books blew me away by all the intricate details about the geisha lifestyle that it could have passed off as a biography. Arthur Golden spent ten long years to researched everything geisha so he could give us this excellent book. Because of this book I have been completely obsessed with learning a lot more about this mysterious tradition that most people don't have a clue about. People outside of Japan, including myself, have this idealized image of what a geisha is and that is as a prostitute. Truth is they aren't. Sex may be involved but that isn't the whole point of what a geisha is and that is what I have learned from Arthur's book. I hope some day we can stop stereotyping other people's cultures and actually attempt to learn and understand what they are truly like. Perhaps this book could be a good starting point in the right direction to ending cultural stereotyping.	2000-11-17
US	49122981	R1Z9YTLITL76BJ	1858689708	581006174	Geisha : A Living Tradition	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Interesting	The pictures of the geisha and maiko were gorgeous. Unfortunately I have seen a couple of these pics in other books on geisha too. I think that was a dead giveaway that the author was a journalist and did not know what it was like being a geisha firsthand unlike Liz Dalby who was only a grad student when she became a geisha briefly in the 1970s. I found this book pretty to look at but lacks the substance that Geisha by Liz Dalby had.	2000-11-01
