US	49131037	R2O3H04PSNBAUK	0670034460	360300095	The Planets	Books	5	61	73	N	N	A Grand Tour	Why, I asked myself, would Dava Sobel pick a subject as done to death as the planets of our solar system after mining such rich veins of prose ore as the race to measure longitude accurately and Galileo from his daughter's point of view?  The answer - this fantastic author can take the overdone and give it new life!  In The Planets, Dava Sobel takes the reader on a tour of planetary astronomy and the 9 objects currently classified as major planets plus the Sun and the Moon with 12 very different chapters and no feeling of having read a few chapters in an astronomy textbook.  Chapters 7 [SCI-FI (Mars)] and 10 [NIGHT AIR (Uranus and Neptune)] have the most interesting points of view.  Chapter 7 is narrated by ALH84001, the famous Martian meteorite that contains possible signs of life, and Chapter 10 is written as a long letter from aging astronomer Caroline Herschel (sister of the discoverer of Uranus) to American astronomer Maria Mitchell.  This is the kind of book I'd recommend to an avid reader who usually avoids books on science.  I enjoyed this book immensely and would recommend to anyone with an interest in astronomy and history.  I'm getting my copy of The Planets into my high school library as quickly as possible.	2005-10-12
US	49131037	RF5KQ1MMO4EEX	0465046754	692787574	The Republican War on Science	Books	5	26	35	N	N	The Politicization of Science	Chris Mooney delivers a well-written, but depressing, message in The Republican War on Science.  Instead of arguing policy after looking at the current scientific consensus, politicians, mostly far-right and religious-right Republicans, are manipulating the science to fit the desired policy.  For a student of science and a science teacher who sits firmly in the \\"decline to state\\" [that's how small-i independents register here in California] position politically, Mooney's first tome is over 250 pages of well-documented frustration.  My job as a science teacher in the State of California is to teach my students the California science standards - standards that are based on the current scientific consensus. [The students never have to BELIEVE a word I say, they just have to become informed about mainstream science.]  This can be hard to do when the students hear seemingly reasonable adults talking about intelligent design and a lack of evidence for human-induced global warming.  I taught my students about Kepler on Friday - how he truly believed that a geometrically-oriented supreme being would make planetary orbits perfect circles, but how Tycho Brahe's excellent observational data led Kepler to the correct answer - that planetary orbits are elliptical.  Scientists are trained to follow the evidence no matter where it leads - the universe is the way it is, whether we want it to be that way or not!  I wish the title had been different - The Politicization of Science or the Far Right's War on Science might not have been as sexy or sold as many books - but I'm hoping that this well-researched and well-argued book will be read by moderate Republicans AND science abusers on the left [see Prometheus Bedeviled by Norman Levitt] - two groups that need to hear this argument the most.  I can't say that I enjoyed The Republican War on Science - it's not the kind of book one is supposed to enjoy - but I can recommend it highly to anyone with an interest in science and politics.  This is not a book for Democrats only - the criticism applies equally to science abusers at any point along the political spectrum!This is not a book for Democrats only - the criticism applies equally to science abusers at any point along the political spectrum!	2005-10-02
US	49131037	RYRN0BXWZZOIA	0192805991	124677091	The Elements of Murder: A History of Poison	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Poison Pen of Professor Emsley	Professor John Emsley is my favorite guide to the world of chemistry and I look forward to every book that bears his good name.  The Elements Of Murder was no exception and I ordered it long before it came out.  I wanted to give it a 5 star rating even before I read it, but I must give it a 4 star rating after a thorough reading.  Professor Emsley has authored many books: The Elements and Nature's Building Blocks are references [for professional and layperson respectively], Molecules at an Exhibition is a collection of essays, and The 13th Element takes on a single subject [phosphorus].  Vanity, Vitality, and Virility, his previous book, seems to be the model for The Elements of Murder.  In Vanity, Vitality, and Virility, Emsley takes on multiple chemical subjects in short vignettes, has an introduction and postscript, and includes a glossary.  The problem I have with The Elements of Murder involves what it is missing: there is no postscript or epilogue.  I enjoyed the stories of death and murder involving the elements mercury, arsenic, antimony, lead, and thallium.  I enjoyed the short tales of other poisonous elements in the last chapter. I also felt that the book ended rather abruptly.  I still recommend this book to anyone with an interest in chemistry [especially chemistry and history], but I hope that when it comes out in paperback [or in the later hardback printings] that some kind of conclusion is added to the book.	2005-08-29
US	49131037	R12ZE9RADRMJ2L	081334249X	260133431	Reading the Rocks: The Autobiography of the Earth	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Reading the Mind of a Geologist	It's not easy thinking like a geologist. By that I do not mean that it is necessarily difficult to learn to think like a geologist - I did it! - but that the consequences of geologic thinking are many and varied.  Your mind is trained to fathom everything from the smallest fraction of a second to the longest times imaginable and this gives you a very different perspective on things than the average person.  [It's hard to get into discussions with the neighbors about earthquakes, hurricanes, or, most recently here in southern California, landslides without sounding callous and overly excited at the same time.]  To a geologist, a small pebble contains a long history.  Marcia Bjornerud, geologist and eloquent expositor of the earth sciences, has given non-geologists and geologists alike a gift with her wonderful book Reading The Rocks.  The subtitle of the book - The Autobiography of the Earth - seems to me to be slightly misleading. Yes, if you read the entire book, you'll have a general overview of earth history [although since not presented in chronological order, you'll have to mentally assemble the bits yourself].  The main title really tells the tale - Professor Bjornerud takes us into the mind of a geologist and shows us how they think.  Reading the book took me back to those heady days of college and graduate school as countless lectures and field trips began to take and I began to get it.  I remember the day that I was staring at a layer of limestone in the then unfinished freeway bypass around State College, Pennsylvania and was fixated on a thin layer of sand grains that ran through the fairly thick layer of limestone.  The overall layer represented hundreds, thousands, or maybe even millions of years of sediment deposition, but that 1 or 2 grain thick sand layer represented a season or maybe even a storm.  [WOW, DUDE!].  She pulls no punches on the vocabulary, but a glossary at the end of the book will help the reader unfamiliar with the language of geology.  If you like reading books about science and you have limited time to do it, I recommend that Reading the Rocks by Marcia Bjornerud move to the top of your pile!.  If you like reading books about science and you have limited time to do it, I recommend that Reading the Rocks by Marcia Bjornerud move to the top of your pile!	2005-08-28
US	49131037	R11413ZOMNEB3H	0393051285	743421485	Miss Leavitt's Stars: The Untold Story of the Woman Who Discovered How to Measure the Universe (Great Discoveries)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	When Computers Were Made Of Carbon, Not Silicon	Another school year approaches and I possess empirical evidence - back-to-school commercials are ubiquitous on the tube.  As part of my preparation as a high school teacher, I switched back to reading non-fiction [my Mom still worries that I don't read enough fiction - I usually try to compensate during summer vacation] and Miss Leavitt's Stars by George Johnson led the way.  The first unit will be astronomy and Henrietta Swan Leavitt will be making her yearly appearance.  This year, however, thanks to author Johnson, I have a far better understanding of Leavitt than I did before.  The book would be extremely short if it was just a biography - even with new primary material on hand, Johnson didn't have a lot of material to flesh out Leavitt's life.  Johnson gives us Leavitt's life as a computer at the Harvard Observatory and her discovery of the relationship between the period of Cepheid variable stars and their absolute brightness imbedded within the history of the Harvard Observatory and the science that followed directly from her discovery.  My only problem with the book concerns the beginning of the prologue which involves a little piece of fiction that may be a little too clever and seems to me to be a little bit out of context when first read.  This book is further evidence that bright folks relegated to \\"women's work\\" such as Edward Pickering's \\"girls\\" at the Harvard observatory - Leavitt and Annie Jump Cannon among others [or Louis Leakey's \\"trimates\\" - Jane Goodall, Dian Fossey, Birute Galdikas - to site another example of women being given the job of making basic observations] often make great discoveries despite expectations to the contrary!  Suggestion:  We need to have an author do for the \\"girls\\" of the Harvard Observatory what Sy Montgomery did for the \\"trimates\\" in her 1991 book Walking With The Great Apes.	2005-08-24
US	49131037	R21DNYPQOMA4RW	0760734062	44145288	Ice Age: The Theory That Came In From The Cold!	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Primer On The Ice Ages	When I first saw and bought Ice Age by John and Mary Gribbin, I thought that I'd give it to the school library straight away - it looked like a good little book that a high school student would be able to handle.  Yesterday, I needed a short book to read, so I pulled it off the shelf.  Ice Age is a very pleasant surprise.  John and Mary Gribbin, a powerhouse science writing duo, have given us a nice, little essay on how we discovered the ice ages in the first place and how we discovered the main cause of those ice ages.  This would be a great little book for someone to read before they took on one of the more difficult tomes on ice ages or climate change.  I recommend this book to any one looking for a brief background on the history of the science surrounding the ice ages.	2005-08-23
US	49131037	R61TG2M1OWK3X	0812627407	251732011	Kokopelli and Company in Attack of the Smart Pies	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Are Bunker Busting Bear Claws the Future of Muse Prankfare?	Let me start with my [dis]qualifications:  I am a 46 year old childfree science teacher familiar with the works of Larry Gonick, but pretty clueless about Kokopelli & Company or Muse Magazine [I did a little research before I bought Attack of the Smart Pies - I read a good number of the Kokopelli & Company strips on the Muse Magazine website].  I am obviously NOT part of the target audience for this book [or the strip and the magazine] which is 9 - 14 year olds, but I do teach students at the upper end of the target range.  That said, I really enjoyed Attack of the Smart Pies!<br /><br />The majority of the story takes place in Kokonino County, home to the 9 New Muses.  Emma, an orphan escaping from a bad situation in her current foster home, follows Feather, Muse of Plants and a doughnut addict, back to Kokonino County where HUMANS ARE NOT ALLOWED!  Emma needs help with her stepfather, but gets wrapped up in the Muses' arms race [smart pies and defenses against smart pies].  The intended audience should love the story, but there's enough depth to the story that an adult [or a really precocious kid] can take away a lot from reading Attack of the Smart Pies.  Even though Kokopelli, Muse of Tunes and Tricks and flinger of pies, might like me to give up the ending [especially since the trickster plays a key role in the resolution of the story], I won't be a spoiler and tell you what happens.<br /><br />I will be extremely pleased when my copy of Attack of the Smart Pies makes its way into the library at the high school where I teach.	2005-07-22
US	49131037	RUY52L7QF7YGH	0316738263	229332418	Garbage Land: On the Secret Trail of Trash	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Waste Not, Want Not	Elizabeth Royte's Garbage Land is one woman's journey to find out where her waste goes.  She follows her putrescibles to the landfills, her recyclables to recovery facilities, and even tracks her poop all the way to the sewage treatment plant and beyond.  She discovers that there are no easy answers and that consuming less is the best answer to the waste problem.  The reason that I resonate so strongly with Garbage Land is that since the late `80s my wife and I have been on a quest to reduce, reuse, and recycle to the max [although I participated in the recycling program in Forest Hills, Pennsylvania when I was a teen in the `70s] and have run into many of the problems encountered by Royte.  Even though Whittier, California now uses the 3 barrel system [yard waste, recyclables, and trash, with the trash barrel being much smaller than the other two], we still find the level of our trash disconcerting AND we live over the hill from the Puente Hills landfill, now the largest sanitary landfill in the world [enlarging the landfill has been mitigated by setting aside or buying land for parks in the hills, so it hasn't been a total waste].  I agree with the previous reviewer's comparison to Fast Food Nation - the books share a similar feel, although I find this one even lower key in the polemics department.  I finished the book over the weekend while I was at a wedding in Mendocino County.  The couple was married at the oldest organic winery in the country and their house is equipped with a composting toilet - I ended up feeling like a piker when it came to the 3 R's of waste.  Garbage Land is food for thought for anybody thinking about their own impact on the planet.	2005-07-19
US	49131037	R2M85YR62W91SI	1555974198	509051043	Dictionary Days	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Word Jam	Even though Ilan Stavans is an OED man and I prefer the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, he is still one of my favorite writers and Dictionary Days is a great pleasure to read.  The book has its origins in an improvised talk Stavans gave in Ann Arbor, Michigan [Ink, Inc.] and the essays in Dictionary Days all have a stream of consciousness, jamming on the dictionary and word theme feel.  Desert Notes by Barry Lopez and Einstein's Dreams by Alan Lightman cover very different subjects from Dictionary Days, but they're the books that came to mind when I finished reading Dictionary Days.  If the reader is looking for a scholarly book on words and dictionaries, this isn't it, but one hopes Stavans will write that book someday. [And since we're on the subject of dictionaries, I recommend that all dictionary freaks check out a copy of Glossary of Geology, Fourth Edition (4th ed) by Julia A. Jackson (Editor), a technical dictionary with a twist.]	2005-07-12
US	49131037	R7BGTVOHF4W80	0309093120	632168707	Climate Crash: Abrupt Climate Change and What It Means for Our Future	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Earth's Climate Flip-Flops More Than Any Politician	Even though the subtitle of the book is \\"Abrupt Climate Change and What It Means for Our Future\\" [in which the author does a good job at showing why the future of our planet's climate is still unknown and possibly unknowable], the real importance of John D. Cox's Climate Crash is the book's detailed description of at least 80 years of research on the past climates of the planet Earth. Cox, a science journalist well versed in the earth sciences, shows step-by-step how scientists have arrived at the conclusion that the Earth's climate can shift very quickly [on scales of years or decades] from state to state.  This is important information for anybody interested in the current scientific and political debates concerning the future of our planet's climate.  My only complaint is that the book contains a few typos [In chapter 1, we meet Alfred Lohar Wegener, but at the beginning of chapter 3, he's Alfred Wegner.  I'm sure the ghost of Alfred Lothar Wegener doesn't mind - it's nice to see him mentioned in a context other than plate tectonics.]  If you read this book and then you still think that NOT dealing with the level of anthropogenic greenhouse gases is an okay way to go, you're a much braver person than I am!  I enjoyed Climate Crash immensely and recommend it to anyone with an interest in climatology, geology, polar research, or the scientific method.	2005-07-01
US	49131037	RG9N25YZJ8KC1	0679603360	182712905	The City: A Global History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Unsexy City	I generally find Joel Kotkin a great read.  I loved The New Geography.  I don't always agree with him, but I'm honored that the Los Angeles Times is his home newspaper and I look forward to seeing him on the op-ed pages.  I'm also aware that the books in the Modern Library Chronicles are supposed to be short introductions - primers - on a given subject.  Given all of that, The City: A Global History is not the book it could have been.  Kotkin, usually a dynamic writer, gives us a somewhat bland history of the city.  Towards the end of the book, the colorless recitation of history gives way to a more dynamic read, but many readers probably aren't going to give the book that much of a chance.  And even though he sets the reader up with a decent hypothesis about why cities succeed - sacred, safe, and busy - he doesn't tie up all the empirical evidence well enough for evaluation purposes.  The word \\"sacred\\" is a big problem.  Kotkin defines sacred and the city in the introduction, but his use of the word throughout the book zigs and zags between multiple meanings.  I went on a trip to Washington, D.C. with students from my high school last fall.  We toured the city and ultimately sang in Constitution Hall on September 11.  Most of my students are very religious and I'm not, but I think most of the folks who went on that trip would say that Washington, D.C. fits the definition of \\"sacred.\\"  After reading The City, I'm not sure what Professor Kotkin would think.  Since I can't give fractional stars, I'm rounding up my 3.5 star rating to 4 stars.  I learned a lot of history from The City, but given Joel Kotkin's written record, I was hoping for a lot more.	2005-06-27
US	49131037	R2QEWT0TQKQUA9	0674011570	265016827	The Discovery of Global Warming (New Histories of Science, Technology, and Medicine)	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Primer On Warming	Spencer R. Weart's The Discovery Of Global Warming is a good primer on how scientists discovered global warming and why most scientists think that humans are at least partially responsible for that warming.  The book is APOLITICAL, thorough, and should be understood by anybody with at least a middle school science education.  One of the best aspects of the book is how well Weart describes the process of science.  Personally, I find it unfortunate when any scientific issue becomes overly politicized.  Scientific issues are settled based on empirical evidence, not along party lines and not by opinion poll.  Good science often reveals things about the universe that we'd rather have work some other way.  If you want to read only one book about global warming, I would recommend The Discovery Of Global Warming.  If you plan on reading any of the more polemical volumes on the issue, I recommend that you also read Dr. Weart's little book.	2005-06-24
US	49131037	RXLN8Y7PUCU8J	0691120366	948184633	The Ethics of Identity	Books	5	22	36	N	N	The Opinion Of One Spotted-American	As a small-l liberal, I have lots to think about when it comes to issues of identity, individualism, group rights, etc.  To help flesh out my thinking on these subjects, I eagerly read The Ethics Of Identity by Kwame Anthony Appiah.  I found the book tough going [I had to purchase a pocket dictionary for my bedside table specifically to help with Professor Appiah's major league vocabulary], but feel that every moment spent in Professor Appiah's head was well worth it.  Part of the reason this is important to me is that the 14 and 15 year old students I teach are very conscious of identity issues. With our student population, this often manifests itself by the students asking each other what color they are or where they are from.  When they ask me if I'm white [it's usually that blunt], I gently tell them that I'm a spotted-American [I'm a well freckled red-head - damn my mutant MC1R genes!].  I recommend The Ethics Of Identity to anyone grappling with identity issues and a willingness to learn some new vocabulary.	2005-06-24
US	49131037	RHXNHEDBUZQRL	0801874343	987101137	Cogwheels of the Mind: The Story of Venn Diagrams	Books	4	9	9	N	N	words & PICTURES	Cogwheels Of The Mind by A.W. F. Edwards is a pretty and frustrating little book.  The text starts out as a history of Venn diagrams, but veers into a trip through Edwards's recent thinking on Venn diagrams [which is the author's prerogative, but does make the subtitle of the book - The Story of Venn Diagrams - a little misleading].  It's all good reading, but given the brevity of the text, I found myself wishing that Edwards had stayed on task a little more.  The pictures are stunning!  If you're into diagrams like I am, then the pictures will be a feast for your mind.  To me the book feels like two well illustrated journal articles or maybe a really small coffee table book.  Cogwheels Of The Mind is cool, but flawed.	2005-06-23
US	49131037	RXKTYMHY5G66U	0674016696	681248419	Edward Teller: The Real Dr. Strangelove	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The Real Deal	Whether or not Edward Teller was the model for Dr. Strangelove in the movie of the same name [my pick for #1 movie ever], he was still one of the most controversial and enigmatic scientists of the 20th Century.  Peter Goodchild does an excellent job laying out Dr. Teller's life in the book Edward Teller, The Real Dr. Strangelove.  Having read Goodchild's J. Robert Oppenheimer: Shatterer Of Worlds while still in college [and having watched the BBC show by Goodchild on PBS with my Dad - a favorite memory], I trusted that Goodchild would write a book that was neither hagiography nor hatchet job, and Edward Teller did not disappoint.  Goodchild gives us Teller's life as a witty and brilliant scientist [which I have personal experience with - I had the good fortune of hearing Dr. Teller speak] and as a troubled and extremely political human being.  Being a fan of Oppenheimer and a partisan against the Star Wars nuclear defense, I expected that the book would support, and perhaps intensify, my negative feelings towards Teller, but reading the book has made me more sympathetic towards Teller the human being [while still vehemently disagreeing with his treatment of Oppenheimer and his support of the scientifically ridiculous Star Wars plan].  Their may be some people that are purely heroic or villainous, but most people are like J. Robert Oppenheimer or Edward Teller, flawed human beings.  I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in science and scientists, the ethical conflicts of certain kinds of scientific research, biography, the bomb, and the history of the 20th Century.  An endnote:  when I was in the 1st and 2nd grades in Berkeley, California, I lived on Scenic Avenue and went to Hillside Elementary School.  One of my routes to or from school took me along Hawthorne Terrace past Dr. Teller's house.  I was a precocious kid and knew the \\"Father of the H-Bomb\\" lived in my neighborhood.  He drove a beat-up old car, which confirms Teller's frugality as reported by Goodchild.ted by Goodchild.	2005-06-23
US	49131037	R14SPJWP4DCMEC	0691099995	311011590	Eight Preposterous Propositions: From the Genetics of Homosexuality to the Benefits of Global Warming	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Scientific Thinking Can Be Fun	8 Preposterous Propositions by Robert Ehrlich, the sequel to Nine Crazy Ideas In Science, takes on eight newsworthy issues in science and evaluates them for their flakiness factor.  As with the original book, Ehrlich lays out the evidence evenhandedly for each issue and then at the end of each chapter assigns each issue 0 to 5 flakes.  Like the first book, 8 Preposterous Propositions is an excellent exercise in scientific thinking and would be a good way to lure a nonscientist towards the joys of scientific thinking.  I look forward to 7 Scintillating Suggestions or 10 Titillating and Tenuous Thoughts or whatever the next book will be called.	2005-06-23
US	49131037	R2NZYD0U5XX3F0	0700613722	466425343	To The Flag: The Unlikely History Of The Pledge Of Allegiance	Books	5	11	24	N	N	Wave That Flag, Wave It Wide And High	At the high school where I teach, we say the Pledge of Allegiance every day at the beginning of 2nd period [except on standardized testing days - quiet please!] and I willingly stand and say the Pledge [more on what version later] along with the intercom.  This year has been more frustrating than normal, since many of my 2nd period students don't know how to behave during the Pledge - whether standing [Pledging or just being polite] or sitting [protesting or just being apathetic] - and many seem to feel that it's okay to yammer on about whatever during our morning patriotic ritual.  We also have 20 minutes of sustained silent reading at the beginning of 2nd period [just before the Pledge] and Richard J. Ellis' excellent book To The Flag was one of my favorite reading period reads this year.<br /><br />To The Flag is a warts and all history of the Pledge of Allegiance, starting with Francis Bellamy - Christian and socialist - the author of the direct ancestor of the current Pledge,  up to today's arguments over the words `under God.'  Ellis follows all the twists and turns of the Pledge, from the various changes in text, to the myriad motivations promoters have had for pushing the pledge.  The potential reader should not be scared off by the imprint of a University press on the book's cover - Ellis is an excellent writer and keeps the book flowing through all of the details.  Potential readers of To The Flag would be anybody interested in history [especially that of the late 19th and 20th centuries], the Pledge, the flag, politics, and religion.  To The Flag should be REQUIRED READING for anybody on any side of the current controversies over the Pledge of Allegiance.<br /><br />I say the Pledge as codified in 1942.  I willingly pledge to a flag which I believe stands for the aspirations and ideals of the United States, but not all of its actions.  I tried to explain to the sitters [who I support in principle - a forced pledge to freedom isn't a good thing] that talking wasn't cool during the pledge, but getting through to them was tough, even with my expanded knowledge of the issues.  Lastly, I thank the universe that I live in the United States where we can still have arguments like the one over the Pledge!talking wasn't cool during the pledge, but getting through to them was tough, even with my expanded knowledge of the issues.  Lastly, I thank the universe that I live in the United States where we can still have arguments like the one over the Pledge! <br />	2005-06-22
US	49131037	R3AXR8FLYTZO61	0309090512	218342770	Schrödinger's Rabbits: The Many Worlds of Quantum	Books	5	21	23	N	N	All The Myriad Explanations	Every few years I look for a good book to bring me up to date on the latest musings of the quantum mechanics to see if they've figured things out yet and Colin Bruce's Schr&ouml;dinger's Rabbits admirably filled the bill.  Bruce does the obligatory opening chapters on quantum mechanics in general and the weirdness that arises when mere humans [like me] try to fathom the subject.  The book then launches into a thorough accounting of what the author refers to as the Oxford interpretation, giving us the agreements and disagreements, warts and all.  Bruce is a great writer and keeps the tough material engaging.  I should confess that I'm a very willing participant and have been fascinated with the many worlds interpretation ever since I read the Larry Niven short stories All The Myriad Ways and For A Foggy Night.  I highly recommend Schr&ouml;dinger's Rabbits to anyone interested in quantum mechanics.	2005-06-21
US	49131037	RF5WOGR7FD9YC	0802713963	366377635	Measuring America: How an Untamed Wilderness Shaped the United States and Fulfilled the Promise of Democracy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Working On The Chain Gang	In his book Measuring America, Andro Linklater does a very good job at surveying the history of land surveys in Europe and the United States and the reason why the length 22 yards is so darn important. Starting in England with the end of feudalism and the beginning of private land ownership, Linklater eventually crosses the Atlantic and focuses on surveying and private land ownership in the expanding United States of America.  The author shows that the Gunter's chain, a 22 yard surveying instrument, is the only constant measure through hundreds of years of Western Civilization and has left its mark all across America as the basis of our public land surveys.  I know this all too well - the high school where I teach sits on a 40 acre square [well, there is the little piece across the street added later for the farm, but the original campus is 40 acres] or 440 yards by 440 yards [20 chains by 20 chains].  This area is also a ¼ of a ¼ of a section in the US public land survey and is squared off with sides running exactly north-south and east-west.  It makes it easier to teach about maps and directions, but imposing squares on an undulating landscape has always seemed against our better knowledge of ecological principles.  I think my biggest gain from reading Measuring America was learning of a reason to feel better about all the squares - Linklater makes the case that the squares are more democratic.  I wish Linklater had tied all his important points together more tightly and hence the 4 star rating.  Measuring America is quite an education and well worth the read.	2005-06-20
US	49131037	R3RZKR4FOSRRYL	0805079076	436532946	The Unfolding of Language: An Evolutionary Tour of Mankind's Greatest Invention	Books	4	51	53	N	N	Fun Book On Language A Little Wordy	Guy Deutscher makes learning about language fun in his book The Unfolding Of Language. Deutscher, a mathematician turned linguist, has a great sense of humor and a joy for his subject that comes through in his writing.  The author takes what could be a really dry subject [think back to language classes [both English and foreign] in high school - bet you really liked conjugating all those verbs!] and most of the time makes it glide by as the reader gets a fairly deep education on the evolution of language.  My biggest complaint about the book [and the reason for my agonized over 4 star rating] is that it starts to feel like overtime has been called towards the end of the book.  I think Deutscher already had a sense of this since what could've ended up as 5 more chapters [or at least additions to 5 existing chapters] are attached at the back of the book as Appendices A through F.  I have nothing against detail, but would've liked to have seen more of the material sent to the back of the book as extended notes or another appendix. Still, I feel that The Unfolding Of Language is a very worthwhile read, worth the effort, and I learned a lot and had a good time doing it!	2005-06-20
US	49131037	R2QPXOGSVKOS2L	1413735827	895508438	Shadows of Medusa	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Secrets of Mars	Shadows of Medusa by Brian Enke is a genre-busting novel about a first manned mission to Mars. The novel is intrigue/suspense/mystery embedded within a strong and accurate framework of science/science fiction.  The action shifts back and forth between the mission itself, where Anna/&lt;microbrain> and her two fellow astronauts struggle to keep their bargain basement mission on track, and mission control and Earth, where David/&lt;shepherd> tries to stay at the helm of mission control while running from the bad guys and never knowing who to trust [the good guys have chosen to remain anonymous and this adds to the mystery/confusion].  Skye, a sexy TV reporter, is this mystery's femme fatale and one corner of the novel's scalene love triangle.  As it says in the Preface, there is a need for a sequel, so if you have issues with cliffhangers, avoid this novel.  My only complaint is the price - it's way too high for a trade paperback!  I hope the price doesn't scare away the readers Mr. Enke's novel deserves.  I enjoyed Shadows of Medusa so much I was willing to stay up until 3 in the morning in the middle of the high school standardized testing season to finish it!	2005-05-01
US	49131037	R93LFPFPNWO3R	0316009989	938565801	Searching for the Sound:  My Life with the Grateful Dead	Books	5	83	86	N	N	It's all a dream we dreamed one afternoon long ago...	No one book can ever tell the entire tale of the Grateful Dead.  Searching For The Sound by bassist and founding member Phil Lesh is the first book by a member of the band to focus on the band itself and Phil has a tale to tell and tells it well.  The book starts with Lesh's birth and quickly moves on to his discovery of music.  Then Lesh takes us through the embryonic San Francisco scene and on into the evolution of the Grateful Dead.  The rest of the book focuses on Phil's intertwined life with the band, the band's extended family, and, ultimately, Phil's own family.  It takes only the last dozen or so pages to cover the years since Jerry Garcia's death, but the subtitle of the book is My Life With The Grateful Dead and that name passed into history at the end of 1995.  The drugs are there, but rather than glorifying them, a full reading of the book shows that, in the long run, the drugs took a heavy toll.  Lesh's writing style is conversational and stream of consciousness and fits perfectly with the story he's narrating.  Ultimately, it's a book about MUSIC, its creation, and its powers.  In the spirit of the age of disclosure, I must admit to attending 27 Grateful Dead shows between Penn State '79 and Las Vegas '95 and have followed the band members in whatever incarnation since the death of Garcia. I don't think this makes me biased, but I thought you should know.  I found the book to be an eye opener and it added context to a major part of my life during the last quarter of the 20th Century.  A non-Deadhead should enjoy the book, especially anyone with a taste for biography and the history of rock.  If you're looking for the description of one endless drug trip, stay away [or better yet, read the book with an open mind].  I enjoyed Searching For The Sound and would love to see Lesh give us another book sometime in the future.	2005-04-17
US	49131037	R23G3SD0NT1RJO	0066212928	749505731	The Devil's Wind	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Atomic Noir	In Raymond Chandler's \\"Red Wind,\\" we learn that during a Santa Ana wind \\"anything can happen.\\"  Richard Rayner has taken Chandler at his word and given us The Devil's Wind, a fast paced explosion of noir set in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, and the desert in between during a couple of weeks in 1956.  The narrator of the story is architect Maurice Valentine.  Mallory Walker, the requisite mystery woman, enters the story during the first sentence.  Walker sweeps Valentine into an affair which takes them to Las Vegas where we encounter mobsters-in-love, corrupt politicians, jazz musicians, and the first of two atomic tests.  Before the second atomic test, identities proliferate, relationships are revealed, deals are made, people die, souls are searched, and, despite the blowing sand and dust, things become progressively clearer.  I enjoyed the story immensely and only had issues with one historical inaccuracy [I-15 and I-10 didn't exist yet] and one geographical inaccuracy [Amboy Crater is a volcano, not a meteor crater].  The Devil's Wind is ripe for screen treatment [although I don't want to see it done unless it's done well].  Once you pick up The Devil's Wind, you won't want to put it down!	2005-04-12
US	49131037	R3OGJ69OZZP91R	0968750230	593710579	Glory Be to Mars	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Victory For Mars?	Thomas W. Cronin has given readers a satisfying, exciting, nail-biting conclusion to his Mars series.  The underlying themes of self-reliance, independence, and self-determination inform a book that is very different from the first two books of the series. Glory Be To Mars is a novel of war and strategy that takes place about 30 years on from Give Us This Mars.  The Earth and the U.N. are determined to take Mars from the Martians.  Their impetus for war is an alleged weapon of mass destruction that has been developed by the Martians.  The Earth has superior numbers and technology - the Martians have their own Martian desert fox.  The war plays out on an accurate version of Mars that is informed by data from the latest Mars missions.  The children of the characters from the first 2 books are the main players.  Once the story gets rolling - an Earth attack on a nonmilitary Martian operation - the action never lets up [leave yourself a big block of time for reading - once you get started, you won't want to quit reading!].  My only concern involves Cronin's use of current biological knowledge [genetics] and that concern didn't take away from my ability to suspend my disbelief - hey it's fiction! - but I would love to have a discussion with Cronin about what traits are heritable in humans.  I shall say no more on the subject since I refuse to be a spoiler and I want you to read this book.  Besides fans of the first two books in this series and lovers of Mars fiction, Glory Be To Mars should find a whole new audience in lovers of military fiction.  I hate to see the series end here, so if Mr. Cronin can find another creative and nonrepetitive way to extend the series, I know I'll be ready for another great Martian read!	2005-04-11
US	49131037	R1WDO3QFH2OV0G	006054404X	108370867	A Coyote's in the House	Books	4	13	16	N	N	4 Howls for a Fun Coyote	Elmore Leonard's A Coyote's in the House is a fun read and I recommend it for folks both young and old with one small reservation.  Thinking about the book with my adult analytical mind disengaged, I found the story of Antwan the coyote, Buddy the movie star dog, and Miss Betty the show poodle to be a fun fast read.  The story takes place in the Hollywood Hills where Antwan the coyote lives in the hills and Buddy the movie star dog lives in the house his family bought using the money Buddy made in the movies.  Antwan and Buddy become friends and through the course of the story go through a series of adventures and switch rolls.  My usual dislike of anthropomorphized animals did not wreck my enjoyment of this story.  Now my reservation [adult analytical mind reengaged] - I found that Leonard's choice of names for the characters and use of urban dialect  [inconsistently] for certain characters raised my stereotype hackles.  When Leonard uses broad stereotypes in his adult novels, the audience is adult and sophisticated enough to get the point.  It concerns me that a slightly less sophisticated young reader might get the wrong message from the characters in A Coyote in the House.  I recommend that if you are an adult thinking of getting a copy of A Coyote's in the House for a young reader, scan a copy first to see whether you feel my reservation might be valid.  Better yet, read it, enjoy it, and then decide whether to hand it down to the young reader.	2005-01-03
US	49131037	R1W69NZYNG1XWT	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Side Canyon of Suspense	Skeleton Man is certainly not Tony Hillerman at his finest, but the novel is a fun and suspenseful journey with characters I've grown fond of.  In Skeleton Man, retired Lt. Joe Leaphorn is telling his cop buddies the story of the novel over coffee and donuts, which means the reader is getting it all in flashback.  In the story, Joe Leaphorn plays a small, but important roll in gathering some of the information, but the main action is left for Jim Chee, Bernie Manuelito, and Cowboy Dashee.  Each character ends up with part of the story concerning the 1950's airliner crash over the Grand Canyon, the courier with the diamonds killed in the crash, a burglary, a robbery and murder, and a diamond possessed by Cowboy Dashee's cousin Billy Tuve.  The reader is ultimately the only person with all of the information.  Everything converges on a slot canyon tributary of the Grand Canyon and the exciting denouement of the mystery.  The story is a fast and exciting read and I enjoyed reading it immensely.  Given that this is the age of disclosure, I am informing the reader of this review that 20 or so years ago I spent a night along the Colorado River [during a six day backcountry hike] about 6 miles southwest of where the novel has its climax and I'm sure my personal knowledge of that location added to my enjoyment of the book.  I am very aware that the most recent Hillerman novels are shorter, less complex, and mere extensions of a once grander mystery series, but I am also grateful that cancer hasn't killed one of my favorite authors and that he and his characters are still alive and can bring me a few hours of reading pleasure!	2004-12-26
US	49131037	R3H34FIXL9SX44	0375423214	219859236	The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Fantastical! Piratical! Anachronistical!	Part of the fun of reading Gideon Defoe's The Pirates! In An Adventure With Scientists is picking up on the anachronisms that litter the book like dead lubbers.  Some are obvious - Post-It Notes - and some are less so - things in the Natural History Museum in London that will be there long past the year the story takes place [brontosaurus wouldn't make it into the Natural History Museum until at least 50 years after the story takes place].  The basic story goes like this - pirates capture Charles Darwin and the crew of the Beagle and they go to London and have an adventure.  If the reader has issues with suspension of disbelief, then this slim volume will be tough going.  Some knowledge of pirates and the real people in Darwin's cohort are necessary to get a lot of the jokes [Darwin's pet bulldog in the story is named Huxley].  The humor is very British [although understandable on this side of the pond] and very silly.  Although they probably won't have a lot of the background necessary to find it funny, this book is safe for young readers, the worst things in it being very mild innuendo and swear words represented by assorted punctuation marks.  This is the type of book you can knock off in a couple of hours on a lazy afternoon while sipping rum in the sun.  I doubt it will ever be a bestseller [and it didn't win the author the hand of the young lady he was trying to impress], but if you like pirates, Darwin, and have a sense of humor, you should find the book a short and enjoyable read.	2004-12-24
US	49131037	R24DFVL2OJQ22X	0060590254	180578126	The Stupidest Angel: A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Have A Christmas Feast With Old Friends [Fiends?!?]	Christopher Moore has given his fans a great gift this Christmas:  The Stupidest Angel.  In Angel, Moore returns to Pine Cove, California [for the last time?!?] the week before Christmas and invites a lot of his old characters back for a Christmas feast.  The characters of Angel first appeared in Practical Demonkeeping, The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove [the two previous Pine Cove novels], Island of the Sequined Love Nun, and the angel of the title is none other than Raziel from Lamb.  Moore's fans will probably classify this novel with Demonkeeping, Love Nun, and Lust Lizard as opposed to the very different [but equally funny] Lamb.  The new novel contains sex, drugs, mental illness, a dead Santa, zombies, the torching of a [deconsecrated] church, a really stupid angel [duh!?!], a happy ending, and it's really bleeping funny!  If that last sentence disturbs you, you will not like this novel or any of Christopher Moore's other novels.  On the one hand, The Stupidest Angel is a really good introduction to Christopher Moore.  On the other hand, compared to his other novels, it's only a 4 star book and might make the new Moore reader think that he's a lesser literary talent.  I had a blast reading Angel and look forward to Moore's next effort.  If you are new to Moore, all his books are now in reasonably priced editions from Perennial and you can catch up on all of them for the price of a couple of hardbacks.  [And, no, I will not sell you my first printing hardbacks...you're a bad dog for even thinking those thoughts!]	2004-12-23
US	49131037	R1RAF34AKE394V	0679420118	858814156	A Dangerous Place: California's Unsettling Fate	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Welcome To My Nightmare!	A Dangerous Place by Marc Reisner is a difficult book to review - even though it contains the eloquent prose a reader expects from the author of the classic Cadillac Desert, it also represents an incomplete effort due to the author's untimely death.  That said - and 4 stars assigned - let's move on to why this book is worth reading.<br /><br />Marc Reisner has once again nailed the situation on the head - California, had we known then what we know now, was a really cruddy place to put a heavily populated state.  The most populous cities in California either sit next to potentially dangerous faults or over top of them. [When I started teaching 20 years ago, the only known nearby fault to my high school was the Whittier fault - now my earthquake unit is far more exciting given the fact that we now know of two blind thrust faults - the Puente Hills and the Elysian Park - that lie beneath the high school!]  Reisner makes the case that many California cities are very expensive ruins waiting to happen.  Reisner's main focus in the back 2/3rds of the book is the Bay Area, where three main faults - the San Andreas, the Calaveras, and the Hayward  - run directly under areas full of buildings that still have not been brought up to current code and will not withstand the next big quake.  Lucy Jones, seismologist, and her colleagues, like to point out \\"earthquakes don't kill people, buildings do!\\"  Part III of the book is a well-developed fiction of what the next Hayward fault earthquake might cost California and the nation.  [I went to Hillside Elementary in Berkeley [no longer a public school] for 1st and 2nd grades, which sits directly on a bench cut in the Berkeley Hills by the Hayward fault.]  This section has bothered a lot of readers, but the scenario is accurate and I suspect, had Reisner lived, there would have been a Part IV or an Epilogue to put a more conclusive ending to the book.  The book also lacks an index. [I'm unaware of whether this situation was rectified or not in the paperback.]<br /><br />This book, warts and all, can serve a valuable purpose - start a dialog among Californians and other folks in the United States about what to do about big cities near dangerous faults. We can't move them like we can a small town along the Mississippi River that has been destroyed by a flood or summer homes that have been washed off of a barrier island.  And it should be noted that some of us live in California with our eyes very wide open [and this included Reisner himself].  Reisner didn't live long enough to witness the destruction of parts of Manhattan on 9/11/01 or the mashing down of Florida by 4 hurricanes in the summer and fall of 2004.  One wonders what the conclusion of the book might have been in light of those disasters.or not in the paperback.] <br /> <br />This book, warts and all, can serve a valuable purpose - start a dialog among Californians and other folks in the United States about what to do about big cities near dangerous faults. We can't move them like we can a small town along the Mississippi River that has been destroyed by a flood or summer homes that have been washed off of a barrier island.  And it should be noted that some of us live in California with our eyes very wide open [and this included Reisner himself].  Reisner didn't live long enough to witness the destruction of parts of Manhattan on 9/11/01 or the mashing down of Florida by 4 hurricanes in the summer and fall of 2004.  One wonders what the conclusion of the book might have been in light of those disasters.          <br />	2004-12-22
US	49131037	R3BJQ67F0XUFZ8	0521258723	61379968	Meteorites, Ice, and Antarctica: A Personal Account (Studies in Polar Research)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Solar System Leftovers in the Freezer	Meteorites, Ice, and Antarctica by William A. Cassidy is three books in one.  The first book is a highly accessible account of ANSMET, the US Antarctic Search for Meteorites program.  Part Antarctic adventure story, part exposition on the difficulties of doing scientific research in the late 20th Century, the first part of the book should thrill any interested reader. The second book lays out the spoils of the research, the meteorites - those leftovers from the formation of the solar system and chips off of other planets.  This section is much more technical, but Cassidy's writing style and ability to explain makes the second part as readable as the first.  The third book brings in statistics to evaluate the scientific worth of the Antarctic meteorite collection and Cassidy speculates on what it all means.  Even though this section is clearly aimed at a scientific audience, the interested reader that has made it this far should find this section only slightly harder reading than the previous two.  I must confess that my BS in Geosciences helped with part two and three, but even a lay reader with an interest in meteorites and Antarctica should find the entire book well worth the challenge.  One of the things I most enjoyed about Cassidy's writing is his ability to inject his geologist's personality throughout the book, even in the sections that could have been as dry as cosmic dust.  Most of this book is not for the casual science reader, but those with an active interest in meteorites should find it a welcome addition to their library.	2004-12-22
US	49131037	R1V3AAF2BP64AI	0716737116	240250541	Parallax: The Race to Measure the Cosmos	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sometimes It Takes More Than Just A Clever Mind	In science, clever minds and precision equipment go hand in hand.  Take string theory - it sounds great [and I personally hope it's correct], but we don't have the equipment needed to do the experiments.  In the book Parallax by Alan W. Hirshfeld, we take an almost two thousand year journey through history trying to confirm or deny the existence of stellar parallax - the apparent motion of a star due to the Earth's revolution.  Hirshfeld introduces us to great scientific mind after scientific mind, all who knew exactly what they should see, but all thwarted in their efforts until the science of telescope making caught up with their brilliant minds.  Since we know where the journey ends, part of the fun of reading Parallax comes from Hirshfeld's vivid portraits of the lives of the philosophers, astronomers, and instrument makers involved with finding stellar parallax.  My favorite portrait was of Joseph Fraunhofer, telescope maker extraordinaire and survivor of incredible childhood trauma.  I highly recommend Parallax by Alan W. Hirshfeld to anyone with an interest in astronomy, the history of science, or instrument making.	2004-12-22
US	49131037	R1RDRQOKJV5K3I	0399151346	119325771	Death's Acre: Inside the Legendary Forensic Lab, The Body Farm, Where the Dead Do Tell Tales (includes 16 pages of B&W photos)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Plant the Dead and Knowledge Will Bloom	As a teacher of the earth sciences, I am acutely aware of how hard it is to study processes in nature.  The life and death of a star or the formation of a mature ocean from a rift valley take too long for a single scientist to watch the entire process.  In order to watch the before, during, and after of a large earthquake, a scientist must guess the location of a large quake to get all the equipment in place in order to see the entire process [Parkfield, California finally paid off, but look how long it took!].  Forensic scientists have a different problem - humans have a multitude of issues concerning dead bodies.  This is probably part of the reason why the University of Tennessee's Anthropology Research Facility - the infamous \\"Body Farm\\" founded by Dr. Bill Bass - remains unique.<br /><br />In Death's Acre, Dr. Bill Bass and his co-writer Jon Jefferson combine a heavy dose of Body Farm decomposition research with a memoir of Dr. Bass and the ARF, which makes this a book for the non-squeamish.  All aspects of the dead and decomposing are handled in a serious and straightforward manner - no tabloid writing here - but once again, first and foremost, this book involves dead bodies.  The narrative thread starts in 1957, the year in which Bill Bass starts down the road from anonymous anthropology student to famous forensic scientist, with the emergency archeology done to acquire knowledge of an ancient native American culture from an area about to be drowned by a reservoir.  The book continues through his years as an anthropology professor sought out by the police to help with their confusing corpses.  Along the way we learn the rationale for a research facility into the decomposition of the human body [including a screw up with a dead Civil War soldier].  Ultimately, we get the history of the Body Farm.<br /><br />If you are looking for a good science autobiography with a heavy dose of science, this is the book for you.  If you are looking for a book solely about the ARF or a book of forensic case histories, you should look for a different book.  I think one audience for this book would be MATURE teenagers who are thinking about careers in the forensic sciences [the book IS inspiring and IS NOT lurid].  I have always wanted to be cremated [cemeteries have never made sense to me], but now I think I'll donate my body to the ARF in the name of science.t the ARF or a book of forensic case histories, you should look for a different book.  I think one audience for this book would be MATURE teenagers who are thinking about careers in the forensic sciences [the book IS inspiring and IS NOT lurid].  I have always wanted to be cremated [cemeteries have never made sense to me], but now I think I'll donate my body to the ARF in the name of science. <br />	2004-12-20
US	49131037	R36D1KCJKHM879	1400048842	679531713	Defining the Wind: The Beaufort Scale, and How a 19th-Century Admiral Turned Science into Poetry	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Wind for Poets	Defining The Wind by Scott Huler is a special book that combines two of my loves in life - earth science and language.  Huler, a writer who is NOT a science writer by trade, fell in love with the Beaufort [Wind] Scale in 1983 while a copy editor scanning a copy of the dictionary.  He was so impressed with the 110 words of the scale and their simple but poetic qualities, he embarked on an extended intellectual journey to discover the scale's author.  Defining The Wind is Huler's wonderful retelling of that journey.  Along the way, Huler learns to draw, learns to help sail a tall ship, and rummages through many a dusty archive.  Without spoiling anything, I can tell you that Huler discovers that Francis Beaufort did not write the version of the scale that Huler fell in love with.  I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in meteorology, surveying, the ocean, sailing tall ships, history, or the use of language in science.  Random thought:  I wonder if this would be a good book to give to a teenage writer or artist who doesn't see the benefit of taking science and math classes in high school?	2004-12-19
US	49131037	R2SELP3AMYRHRQ	0670033235	198732624	The Myth of Solid Ground: Earthquakes, Prediction, and the Fault Line Between Reason and Faith	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Myth and Reality in Earthquake Country	David Ulin, writer and Angelino, has the same needs as anyone else living in southern California, including the need to somehow come to grips with life in earthquake country.  The Myth Of Solid Ground is the extended version of his physical and intellectual wanderings on the way to learning to become comfortable with quakes.  Early in the book, Mr. Ulin, NOT a science writer, starts to veer into 4 or 3 star review territory when he spends a lot of time interviewing earthquake predictors and shows less skepticism than I usually like to read about, but I hung in with the book and found Ulin's conclusions satisfactory for a layperson.  Ulin eventually discusses his meetings with many of the scientists currently involved with earthquake prediction [including telegenic Lucy Jones and hirsute Allan Lindh] and visits Parkfield, California, earthquake capitol of the world, BEFORE it finally had its long-awaited 6.0 earthquake [September 28, 2004 - after the publication of the book].  Ultimately, Ulin's son Noah seems to have the best answer for dealing with earthquakes [I won't spoil the end of the book by telling you how Noah deals with a quake, but I will say it's very close to how I deal with quakes].  Despite my early misgivings about the book, ultimately all the material hung together as an interesting and informative narrative and I do recommend the book.	2004-12-19
US	49131037	RNKR8C2DF9RDD	0966010655	868356590	Suspended In Language : Niels Bohr's Life, Discoveries, And The Century He Shaped	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Bohr Isn't Boring!	Science teachers have a large number of stories - some true, some apocryphal, and some somewhere in between - to regale their students with.  We have Einstein's demands of the deity concerning dice, Rutherford's booming voice that trashed lab apparatus, Oppenheimer's Indian verse quoting at Trinity, and Teller's strangelovian life among others, but no good stories from the life of Niels Bohr.  Jim Ottaviani, Leland Purvis, et al. have saved us with their intelligent, witty, and spacey cartoon retelling of Niles Bohr's life - Suspended In Language.<br /><br />If you choose to dip into this very cool science biography, prepare to learn some physics along with the story of Bohr's life.  The authors have supplied a generous number of footnotes and endnotes [done as cartoons] to explain the harder points.  The book is indexed and referenced to the extreme.  This is not some casual cartoon compilation, but a serious piece of graphic scholarship.<br /><br />I highly recommend Suspended In Language to anyone interested in physics, scientists, or the history of the 20th Century.  I also recommend the other books about scientists from G.T. Labs, including Safecracker [Richard Feynman] and Fallout [Oppenheimer, Szilard, and the Bomb].	2004-11-28
US	49131037	RJ6OI10NKRGBK	0971920621	927782016	Migra Mouse: Political Cartoons on Immigration	Books	5	5	6	N	N	La Cucaracha!	I highly recommend that any person interested in politics and Latinos take a look at Migra Mouse, a collection of editorial cartoons by Lalo Alcaraz, the artist behind the daily comic strip La Cucaracha. The cartoons cover politics from the last decade with an emphasis on Latinos and immigration.  Alcaraz has a simple but effective drawing style that says more with a few pen strokes than a political pundit with a book contract. Alcaraz is one of the sharpest political cartoonists around today.  By the way, I'm Anglo and I don't always agree with Mr. Alcaraz's point of view, but I'm here to say that regardless of your skin tone, political bent, or favorite flavor of Christmas tamale, you shouldn't ignore this wonderful cartoonist.	2004-11-27
US	49131037	R1T5WVOP10LVMB	0967725518	576331915	The Sandwalk Adventures: An Adventure in Evolution Told in Five Chapters	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Follicle Mites, Blind Faith, and Evolution	I suspect that Professor Jay Hosler is the wacky science teacher that I've always wanted to be like and I have empirical evidence in the form of his delightful graphic novel The Sandwalk Adventures. In the book, Charles Darwin must convince follicle mites living in his left eyebrow that he is not their creator and that evolution happens.  Even though that sounds psycho, Hosler manages to explain the basics of Charles Darwin, evolution, and get in some comments about the dangers of blind faith in an entertaining way.  Hosler's drawing style is simple, well done, and was most likely strongly influenced by Herge's Tintin.  Even though I'm a geoperson and a high school earth science teacher, The Sandwalk Adventures makes me want to take a couple of Professor Hosler's biology classes!	2004-11-27
US	49131037	R3K3GQEQX0U6Y2	0670031100	638630659	Mutants: On Genetic Variety and the Human Body	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Are Redheads Mutants?	Despite being the repository of many of my family's variant genes, I can't complain - I am a fully functional human being.  That said, the fact that I am the first known case of inherited intermittent vertical nystagmus [at least that's what the doctors said at the time of my birth] has given me an above average interest in the genetics of human beings.  Armand Marie Leroi's Mutants is an excellent introduction to genetic variety in human beings.  Mutants could have been turned into a freak show by a lesser writer or one with the desire to titillate, but Leroi handles the subject directly and with the right level of sensitivity.  In the introduction, Leroi demystifies the word mutant and concludes the chapter by saying<br />We are all mutants.  But some of us are more mutant than others.<br />I especially enjoyed the fact that I was finally able to understand the genetics of my aunt's 6th toe and the fact that Leroi uses redheads to explore the boundary between mutation and polymorphism [I'm okay with the fact that being a redhead makes me a mutant].<br />Despite the way Leroi handles the material, this is not a book for the squeamish.  The black and white illustrations may be disturbing to some readers.  I think the perfect reader for this book would be a person with the background from a 9th grade biology class and an interest in learning more about human genetics.  People with an interest in history and the process of doing science should also find much of interest in Mutants.	2004-06-27
US	49131037	R36WDBNYZYZP8V	0802714153	50272461	The Book Nobody Read: Chasing the Revolutions of Nicolaus Copernicus	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Copernicus for Bibliophiles	In the year of my birth, Arthur Koestler threw down a gauntlet when he labeled Nicolaus Copernicus' De revolutionibus [arguably the greatest science book of the last few thousand years] &quot;the book nobody read.&quot;  Owen Gingerich, astronomer and bibliophile, picked up that gauntlet and did battle with Koestler in the way a scientist must do battle - find empirical evidence that the book had been read.  The Book Nobody Read is Gingerich's popular account of his decades long effort to track down every extant copy of the first and second edition of De revolutionibus to look for evidence of use [mainly using the marginalia left by the readers/owners].  The book flap blurb nails the book when it calls The Book Nobody Read \\"part biography of a book, part scientific exploration, [and] part bibliographic detective story.\\"  The blurb writer could have tossed in adventure story, too.  I enjoyed the book immensely, especially the excellent way in which The Book Nobody Read illustrates the use of the scientific [empirical] method for what many folks would perceive as a non-traditional use.  As a bibliophile and science teacher, I'm probably a member of the perfect audience for this book.  I include the previous statement as a caution, because at least one of the reviewers seems to have misjudged what the book was about.  If you are interested in traditional biography and want a book on Nicolaus Copernicus, The Book Nobody Read may disappoint.  If you like books on books and have an interest in history [especially the history of science], I think you'd rate this book a classic.	2004-06-23
US	49131037	R3IMQL5BTKR76Y	1592130240	738428105	Why I Burned My Book and Other Essays on Disability (American Subjects)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A Book Burning I Can Support	Paul K. Longmore is a historian.  He wrote a well reviewed book on George Washington.  In 1988, in front of the federal building in Los Angeles, he burned a copy of his book.  Longmore saves the essay about the book burning until the end of Why I Burned My Book; Longmore needs to take the reader on a long and instructive journey through the history, imagery, and ethics of disabilities and disability rights so that the reader will understand why someone would burn their own book.  Longmore's perspective as a historian with excellent writing skills and a physical disability probably isn't unique, but it certainly makes him more than qualified to write on the history of the disability rights movement.  I enjoyed the history essays [which make up slightly less than half the book] the most.  I found the essays on assisted suicide to be the most challenging.  I support assisted suicide in principle, but I found Longmore's arguments in opposition well stated and troubling, and they've been swirling around my brain ever since I read them.  I highly recommend Why I Burned My Book to anyone wanting a deeper understanding of disability and the disability rights movement.	2003-12-04
US	49131037	R266F8FYWHZW7T	0195160266	353342444	Walking the Tightrope of Reason	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Thinking About Thinking About Thinking	First, I must confess that when I read the synopsis of Walking The Tightrope Of Reason by Robert Fogelin, I had visions of a much different book.  As a science-type who is open-minded, but skeptical, reading a book of straight philosophy tends to make me feel like I've entered the land of navel gazers.  The synopsis made Fogelin's book sound much more practical than I found it to be.  Still, I found Fogelin's review of the history of philosophy to be a good education in a subject that I've admittedly neglected.  If you are looking for a primer on how to navigate the precarious life of a rational animal, Walking The Tightrope Of Reason may fall short and miss the safety net.  If you are looking at a nondogmatic and personal review of the history of thinking about thinking, Fogelin's musings could take you across the high wire safely.	2003-11-09
US	49131037	RX8ZI6056HW5X	0465082211	808091584	Latino USA: A Cartoon History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	El Profe Y La Cucaracha	Ilan Stavans studies and teaches Latino and Latin American culture and most recently authored Spanglish: The Making Of A New American Language.  Lalo Alcaraz reaches the public on a daily basis through his most excellent comic strip La Cucaracha.  Together they have joined to take the reader on a trip through Latino USA: A Cartoon History.  Biting and sweet, biased and fair, incomplete but thorough, Latino USA is a good way to introduce yourself to the history of the majority minority in the United States.  The scholarship is tight and Alcaraz's art makes it go down easy.  I can't wait to get my copy into the school library, where I hope some of my not very cosmopolitan anglo students and not as self-aware as they could be latino students get pulled in by the drawings and learn a little history.  I highly recommend this book!	2003-10-12
US	49131037	R3WSUEXG9V2VU	0742522806	113889668	America's Founding Secret: What the Scottish Enlightenment Taught Our Founding Fathers	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Short Intro To The Scottish Enlightenment/U.S. Connection	Robert W. Galvin is not the most eloquent writer, but his enthusiasm for his subject matter makes up for the excess use of passive voice in America's Founding Secret.  The Scottish Enlightenment was a wonderful and exciting period in history and the Scots had a major influence on the Founding Fathers.  Galvin enthusiastically and accurately relates this information in a series of short essays.  This book would be a good choice to introduce a somewhat reluctant reader to this subject before exposing them to longer works such as Alexander Broadie's The Scottish Enlightenment: The Historical Age of the Historical Nation or Arthur Herman's How The Scots Invented The Modern World.  America's Founding Secret is evidence that someone outside of academia can get a charge out of heavy intellectual exercise.  If buying/owning/reading a SHORT book bothers you, avoid this book and track down a copy of one of the other books mentioned in this review.  If you want a short introduction to the Scottish Enlightenment and its effects on the founding of the United States, I recommend this book.	2003-10-09
US	49131037	R3H2ZYNAULCT4V	0060087757	850040655	Spanglish: The Making of a New American Language (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Talkin' La Jerga Loca!	Ilan Stavans has produced a treat for all language fans in his excellent book Spanglish: The Making Of A New American Language.  The book contains both Stavans' excellent opening essay - La Jerga Loca - and the lexicon of Spanglish words and phrases that he has compiled over the last decade or so. As a bonus, Stavans includes his Spanglish translation of the first chapter of Don Quixote De La Mancha in the appendix.  The lexicon alone makes the book worth owning, but the essay is the frosting on this treat.  Although referred to as the introduction, the opening essay is preface, introduction, acknowledgments, and much more all rolled into one.  Towards the end of the essay, Stavans addresses concerns over shining a spotlight on Spanglish, which some consider a destruction of Spanish or a come down for people who should be learning English.  He correctly notes that their shouldn't be a problem with studying a phenomenon - Stavans is a professor of Latino and Latin American culture! - especially if it helps people learn more about themselves as a culture.  I teach students for who English is a second language and I always encourage them to improve their English, but I'm also fascinated by the conversations in English, Spanish, and Spanglish that swirl around me every day.  Spanglish by Ilan Stavans should appeal to all those interested in language, especially the evolution of language, and Latino culture.  I found it to be an excellent book and highly recommend it.	2003-10-06
US	49131037	R39J551L17ETHT	0393020290	63178566	Library: An Unquiet History	Books	5	49	51	N	N	An Unquiet History That Needs To Be Heard	Although the purposes and processes change, libraries rise and libraries fall and Matthew Battles has given us a short, engaging, and illustrative history of libraries in Library: An Unquiet History.  The destruction of libraries isn't always at the hands of human beings [decomposition and disintegration happen whether we help or not] and the destruction of libraries at the hands of humans has not always been as pat as conventional stories relate [I like the Hypatia and the mad mob version of the destruction of the library at Alexandria, but as romantic as the story is, the real fall of the library at Alexandria was far more complex.].  Battles' book can be very depressing at times [especially for the extreme bibliophile], but ultimately ends on a hopeful note.  When I donate a book to the library at the high school where I teach, I am aware of the fact that the book may never see any use.  This seems to confirm Battles' thought that &quot;the library may seem the place where books go when they die.&quot;  But every once in a while, one of my students comes up to show me a book and says, &quot;Look what I found in the library!&quot;  And so I keep on donating books.  I recommend you read Matthew Battles' Library: An Unquiet History and find reason to hope.	2003-10-04
US	49131037	RE40FJPHBBR8U	0618130063	356319800	Predicting New Words: The Secrets of Their Success	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Our Word Future?	Allan Metcalf's Predicting New Words is a very good book on how new words enter our language.  Metcalf's emphasis is on why some new words make it and other new words die soon after birth.  Metcalf is something of a scientist of neologisms, using a modified version of Dr. Virginia Apgar's new baby human scale to judge if new baby words will thrive in the world of language.  Metcalf applies his science to old new words and is even brave [or foolish] enough to use his FUDGE scale on some new new words.  Metcalf seems to be very aware of the contingencies of history and that some unseen event could send a word that seems dead on arrival into our dictionaries for years to come.  I think the best example of how history might be unkind to one of his predictions involves the fashion-related word szhoosh.  Metcalf gives szhoosh a 4 out of 10 and predicts that szhoosh is \\"not likely to step out from behind the window glass.\\"  Mr. Metcalf could not have foreseen the popularity of the TV program \\"Queer Eye For The Straight Guy,\\" where fashion guy Carson Kressley uses the word szhoosh [as in 'let's szhoosh the shirt up by rolling up the sleeves'] at least once an episode.  This could bump the Frequency and Diversity of users scores from zeroes to ones or twos and take szhoosh from a 4 to as high as an 8.  I enjoyed reading [and arguing with] Allan Metcalf's ideas in Predicting New Words and give it a 4 out of 5.	2003-10-04
US	49131037	R149M0JNSV55J1	0375407227	647983147	Our Own Devices: The Past and Future of Body Technology	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Risk Increased Myopia - Read This Book!	Why Things Bite Back ranks near the top of my list of favorite nonfiction reads of the last decade, so I was thrilled when Our Own Devices came out.  Edward Tenner did not disappoint!  Our Own Devices concerns how the human body and technology have coevolved.  There is a strong emphasis on how technique has changed [walking, writing, etc.] over time as the technology has changed.  Some of his examples are what you'd expect from a book like this [e.g. the typewriter/computer keyboard], but others are a surprise [e.g. the zori, bottle-feeding].  Of course, I most closely related to the chapter on eyeglasses because I'm extremely myopic AND I read a lot.  As with Why Things Bite back, Our Own Devices will make you think about our very complex relationship with technology.  The book should interest folks who like to read about technology, history, and physiology.  I highly recommend Our Own Devices.	2003-09-15
US	49131037	R3GFKU6MLKYS5D	0618155481	920527176	Braving Home: Dispatches from the Underwater Town, the Lava-Side Inn, and Other Extreme Locales	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Choice Of Disasters	I teach high school earth science in earthquake country.  I always tell my students that no matter where they live, there is some disaster that could befall them, and that learning to live with the characteristics of a place is always a good idea.  But some places are definitely worse than others, and I've wondered for a long time what motivates people to live in places of extreme danger. [Note to the readers of this review: everywhere in western California is earthquake country, but I bought a house with the least amount of flood and wildfire danger that I could find!]  Braving Home by Jake Halpern has helped me get an answer to my question.<br />Braving Home is very much in the style of writing popularized by folks like John McPhee.  Halpern pours himself into his subject by insinuating himself into the lives of the folks and the places he's writing about for a week at a time [he always brings a tent, but never seems to use it].  Halpern writes with great respect for his subjects, even though it would have been so easy to write them off as crazy.  Even though I would probably not choose to live in any one of these situations, I found myself envying something about each of the people Halpern features in the stories.<br />Braving home should appeal to folks who enjoy travelogue, history, psychology, and natural disasters.  I recommend you go to extremes with Jake Halpern and Braving Home.	2003-09-15
US	49131037	R25CRPDIBM11V5	0806132825	309156323	Dark River: A Novel (American Indian Literature and Critical Studies Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Down the Rabbit Hole in Native America	Dark River, with its main character Jake Nashoba, starts off like the other excellent novels of Louis Owens.  The story has great quirky characters, encounters and conflict between native and Anglo culture, different native cultures, and traditional and modern native culture, plus a little Native American magic and mysticism.  But with the turn of every page, Dark River turns increasingly surreal.  The excitement of the novel grows as the characters all head for the dark river of the title.  Dreams and reality mix until it's hard to know where one ends and the other begins.  This is one of Louis Owens' best novels and I enjoyed reading it immensely, ranking it up with my personal favorite, Bone Game.  My one regret is that Louis Owens' life ended too early and he isn't around to give us any other stories to read.	2003-09-13
US	49131037	R3DDUDIRTZ7VB1	1890208701	429812701	Desert Noir (Lena Jones Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Desert Scars	Lena Jones has issues with bullets.  The first bullet scarred her face when she was a child.  The second bullet ended her career as a cop.  If you want to know about the third bullet, you'll have to read Betty Webb's excellent debut novel, Desert Noir.  We catch up with Lena Jones early on in her career as a private eye for Desert Investigations in Scottsdale, Arizona.  Her apartment and office are on art gallery row and the dead body that gets the story rolling is an art gallery owner acquaintance of Lena's from across the street named Clarice Kobe.  The violent ex-husband is accused and Lena is coerced into working for his lawyer.  Clarice Kobe's up-the-hill family, and George Haozous, an angry Native American artist, also become suspects.  The mystery plays out among the city [both ritzy and rundown], the rez, and the desert.  Other characters include Jimmy Sisiwan, Lena's cyberhead nontraditional traditional Native American partner, and Dusty, Lena's cowboy lover from a local dude ranch.  One of my favorite elements in the story is Lena's daily jog to a butte in a park in the middle of the city, a remnant of the once grand desert that has been scarred by the city.  There are similarities to Judith Van Gieson's Neil Hamel novels and I suspect that Neil's fans could easily become fans of Lena's.  Fans of Tony Hillerman's Leaphorn and Chee novels should appreciate Webb's skillful use of the desert setting and sensitivity to native american culture and realities.  I enjoyed Desert Noir immensely and look forward to reading Desert Wives, Betty Webb's second Lena Jones mystery.	2003-09-01
US	49131037	R3R8NKWR1H6BUW	1841581518	29779796	The Scottish Enlightenment: The Historical Age of the Historical Nation	Books	5	46	63	N	N	If It's Not Scottish, It's ....	As a person of mildly above average intelligence and a very broad range of interests, I often have friends suggest that I should try out for Jeopardy.  My standard [and honest] response [regardless of whether the comment was meant as a compliment or an insult] is that I have incredibly large gaps in my knowledge and I'd probably stink at Jeopardy.  Alexander Broadie and his scholarly AND entertaining book The Scottish Enlightenment came to rescue me from one of my more embarrassing knowledge gaps.  You'd've figured a person with some Scottish blood in his veins and who teaches at a high school that has a Scottish theme and a Highlander as a mascot would know a whole bunch about the pivotal period in history know as the Scottish Enlightenment?!  The knowledge gap surfaced when I read Jack Repcheck's recent biography of James Hutton [The Man Who Found Time].  I researched the available literature on the Scottish Enlightenment and Broadie's book appeared to have the qualities needed to plug my knowledge gap.  Written for the interested reader, The Scottish Enlightenment was scholarly enough to give me the short course that I wanted, but interesting and idiosyncratic enough to avoid reading like a textbook.  It left me feeling quite satisfied about my knowledge of the Scottish Enlightenment and, like any good book, left me with a few questions to explore further [the connection between the Scottish Enlightenment and the American Revolution - enquiring minds want to know!].  I highly recommend Alexander Broadie's book to anyone with an interest in history, Scotland, the Enlightenment, or the Scottish Enlightenment.	2003-08-24
US	49131037	R3JEEE81B41NDL	0374174695	340533675	Imagining Numbers: (particularly the square root of minus fifteen)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Musings Of A Math Man	Barry Mazur's Imagining Numbers is a noble effort to get the reader [especially those of a more poetical bent] to think about [and perhaps experience] abstract mathematical thinking that falls short of its goal, but because Professor Mazur muses in such an entertaining and literate fashion, the book is worth a read.  A quick glance at the Preface lays out the origins of the book [musings with a friend; letters to and from friends, some of whom are in the humanities] and it seems to me that anyone looking for a book of straight math and math history would recognize at that point that they've selected the wrong volume.  The book is a mix of math, psychology, history, and philosophy that at its best really does push the reader to imagine certain mathematical concepts, but occasionally made me feel like I was swimming after someone else's inner dialog down the stream of consciousness.  I also think that the math level needed to understand the book is higher than Mazur states.  I give Mazur a lot of credit for trying to do something very difficult and  I think that Imagining Numbers is far enough past 3.5 stars to give it a 4.	2003-08-23
US	49131037	R1O3ULOBE2RZ8J	073820692X	305073177	The Man Who Found Time: James Hutton And The Discovery Of Earth's Antiquity	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Cross-Cutting Relationships	Jack Repcheck's The Man Who Found Time elevates James Hutton to a mountain high enough so that folks not of the geologic persuasion can see Hutton's importance to history.  Hutton did his thinking and geologizing during the Scottish Enlightenment, the period during the 1700's when much of the modern world arguably got its start.  The title of the book is a reference to Hutton's greatest discovery - the great age of the Earth [or as John McPhee put it, &quot;deep time&quot;] - and the book does an excellent job at leading the reader through the events in Hutton's life and in Scotland's history that led to that discovery.  This well-written story of controversy and characters is well worth a read.  As a student of geology, we were not asked to read Hutton [or Playfair, Hutton's Boswell] in any detail, so I feel a little inadequate to comment on some of the detailed criticisms of The Man Who Found Time, but Repcheck's telling jives with everything I learned about Hutton in college and everything I've read since.  I found no obvious historical errors in the book, especially ones that would warrant a 1-star review.  My one complaint [and it may be unfounded given that this book was written for the layperson and not the geologist] is that Repcheck never really delves into the simple principle - usually referred to as the principle of cross-cutting relationships - that underlies the evidence Hutton used to support the claim for the antiquity of the Earth.  Simply put, something can't cut something that isn't there first.  This applies equally well to the granites intruding into [cutting] the older rocks at Glen Tilt and the flat rocks deposited on top of [cutting] the older, angled rocks at Siccar Point.  I highly recommend this book to readers interested in geology, history, Scotland and the Scottish Enlightenment.	2003-08-21
US	49131037	R2X2FTPJEV08NH	0528997904	274510380	Thomas Guide 2003 California Road Atlas	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Map Merger IMPROVES Already Excellent Atlas	Bad things can happen when a big company takes over a smaller company and that was my fear when Rand McNally bought Thomas Bros.  My fears were unfounded and, in fact, it appears that The Thomas Guides have been improved!  Anybody who lives in an area that has been mapped by Thomas Bros knows that The Thomas Guides are excellent and indispensable [The Thomas Guides are such a major part of the culture in southern California that when Thomas Bros changed the pagination of the map books in the early 1990's people involved with deliveries, emergency services, and real estate (houses in SoCal are listed by Thomas Guide pages and grids) had their lives dirsrupted as they had to learn the new page numbers].  It is with great relief and excitement that I tell you that the 2003 edition of the California Road Atlas is much better than previous editions.<br />The good parts of this atlas are still there: the tradtional Thomas Bros Pagefinder map, the excellent coverage of urban areas at smaller scales, the easy to use index with page numbers and grids clearly listed.  But the large scale maps are much easier to read [less clunky symbols, better color scheme, shaded relief].  My one complaint is that the color used for unclassified roads [my favorite kind] is often hard to see against the background color [especially the green used for National Forests].<br />I highly recommend this atlas to anybody who needs a highway atlas of California with detailed maps of urban areas.  If you are a fanatic about those unclassified roads I mentioned earlier, this atlas will get you to the point where you're going to pull off the main highway, but you'll need a more detailed atlas [such as those done by DeLorme] to continue your journey.  I've always felt this was a 5 star atlas.  The improvements make me wish I could give it 6 stars.	2003-06-18
US	49131037	R1MYA1S1HPBQLT	0425188558	3589184	Sunshine and Shadow (Benni Harper Mystery)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	The Yin And Yang Of Benni Harper's World	Sunshine And Shadow by Earlene Fowler is the best Benni Harper novel yet.  Not only does she manage to use TWO types of quilts metaphorically [the sunshine and shadow quilt of the title AND the crazy quilt], but she also juggles two different [but related] stories from two different time periods [the current period of the novels and early in Benni and Jack's marriage].  The plotting is tight and the mysteries are intriguing.  First and foremost, the novel is about relationships.  Benni and Gabe, Benni and Jack, Isaac and Dove, Gabe and his old partner, author and reader, and many, many more.  Regular readers of the Benni Harper series should read this novel with relish.  Newcomers will enjoy the novel, but I would suggest that they start with an earlier novel.  I am also pleased to say that due to Ms. Fowler's newest book deal, we have at least two more Benni Harper novels to look forward to [and a non-series novel that will be set on the eastern side of the Sierra Nevadas].	2003-05-27
US	49131037	R2BPVNICWRDQHJ	0375414827	998457405	The Language Police:  How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn	Books	5	30	43	N	N	Efforts To Remove Bias Suffer From Mission Creep	Diane Ravitch did her homework before she wrote The Language Police. The book details efforts from both the left and the right to remove anything from textbooks, standardized tests, and school libraries that might be remotely offensive to the people in their respective constituencies. She acknowledges that most of these efforts started out with noble intentions - Dick shouldn't always be the bread-winner with Jane barefoot and pregnant at home and materials showing prejudice towards ethnic minorities have no place in a classroom - but goes on to document how these efforts have suffered from severe mission creep and have turned textbooks and tests into pablum. I wish she had spent more time on the religious right's efforts to remove evolution from science textbooks [a subject near and dear to my heart] and there were moments when her rhetoric began to sound a little too much like the aging white guys who go around trumpeting the literature of the so-called western canon [fear not - her view of what constitutes good lit from the past is a lot broader than the western canon guys], but overall I found The Lanuage Police a fascinating read. I recommend this book to anybody interested in the future of public education in the United States. In addition to the three suggestions Ms. Ravitch makes at the end of The Language Police, I have a [small] suggestion on how to stop the language police - donate books to your local public school library [age appropriate, of course]. This may be the best way to get good books into the hands of young people, especially if your school librarian subscribes to the philosophy expressed in the ALA's Library Bill Of Rights:<br />Library Bill of Rights<br />The American Library Association affirms that all libraries are forums for information and ideas, and that the following basic policies should guide their services.<br />I. Books and other library resources should be provided for the interest, information, and enlightenment of all people of the community the library serves. Materials should not be excluded because of the origin, background, or views of those contributing to their creation.<br />II. Libraries should provide materials and information presenting all points of view on current and historical issues. Materials should not be proscribed or removed because of partisan or doctrinal disapproval.<br />III. Libraries should challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment.<br />IV. Libraries should cooperate with all persons and groups concerned with resisting abridgment of free expression and free access to ideas.<br />V. A person's right to use a library should not be denied or abridged because of origin, age, background, or views.<br />VI. Libraries which make exhibit spaces and meeting rooms available to the public they serve should make such facilities available on an equitable basis, regardless of the beliefs or affiliations of individuals or groups requesting their use.<br />Adopted June 18, 1948.<br />Amended February 2, 1961, and January 23, 1980,<br />inclusion of \\"age\\" reaffirmed January 23, 1996,<br />by the ALA Council.the community the library serves. Materials should not be excluded because of the origin, background, or views of those contributing to their creation. <BR>II. Libraries should provide materials and information presenting all points of view on current and historical issues. Materials should not be proscribed or removed because of partisan or doctrinal disapproval. <BR>III. Libraries should challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment. <BR>IV. Libraries should cooperate with all persons and groups concerned with resisting abridgment of free expression and free access to ideas. <BR>V. A person's right to use a library should not be denied or abridged because of origin, age, background, or views. <BR>VI. Libraries which make exhibit spaces and meeting rooms available to the public they serve should make such facilities available on an equitable basis, regardless of the beliefs or affiliations of individuals or groups requesting their use. <br />Adopted June 18, 1948.<BR>Amended February 2, 1961, and January 23, 1980,<BR>inclusion of \\"age\\" reaffirmed January 23, 1996,<BR>by the ALA Council.	2003-05-26
US	49131037	RRZIQ1WICXMG8	0816640068	433043544	Harmful To Minors: The Perils Of Protecting Children From Sex	Books	5	24	34	N	N	Dislike Books On Teen Sexuality? Abstain From This Book!	I grew up in a home where sexuality was discussed openly and honestly by at least one parent [thanks Mom!] and had a 9th grade biology teacher that was brave enough to teach sexuality along with sex [thanks MS. Leibert!].  The world Judith Levine exposes in Harmful To Minors is scary and, luckily, one I'm only familiar with as an observer.  The high school students I teach come from one of the more religious neighborhoods in southern California where I suspect the parental sex lecture, if given at all, is often as short as \\"don't do it!\\" [whatever 'it' is] and sex education is taught clinically, if at all.  And my students aren't abstaining from sexual behavior and they're producing babies and they're catching diseases.  Levine's call for sexuality education is brave, important, and timely.  Humans are sexual creatures, even as children, and trying to protect them from their sexuality is dangerous.  If you care about the youth of America, please open your mind and read Harmful To Minors.	2003-05-19
US	49131037	RKI2F7WVR8ECV	0525947086	842898700	The Seashell on the Mountaintop: A Story of Science Sainthood and the Humble Genius Who Discovered a New History of the Earth	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Saint Steno	Nicolaus Steno first entered my consciousness when I took G. Sc. 1 or 2 at Penn State during the 1977-1978 school year. He hadn't been beatified yet, but our professor pointed out that some folks wanted him to be declared a saint. This seemed at odds with his extreme importance to the science of geology, at least to my 18 year old brain. At 44, I understand that humans can be extremely complex creatures and welcome Alan Cutler's wonderful Steno biography The Seashell On The Mountaintop to the lay-literature concerning the science of geology.<br />Steno [aka Niels Steensens, Nicolai Stenonis] contributed [among other things] the principle of superposition to the science of geology, without which Earth history can not be done. After reading The Seashell On The Mountaintop, I better understand how the seemingly disparate elements of Steno's life flow one from the other. Cutler's prose style made Seashell an enjoyable read and I was particularly pleased that Seashell doesn't suffer from the hyperbole that scarred the otherwise fantastic The Map That Changed The World by Simon Winchester. I strongly recommend The Seashell On The Mountaintop to any reader interested in geology, history, biography, and the relationship between science and religion.<br />As a high school earth science teacher, I'm very sensitive about the hegemony of biology, chemistry, and physics over science education in the United States. Maybe the recent string of popular books on geology and the other earth sciences will help a little to restore the earth sciences to their proper place in American life.<br />I'm pretty sure Steno hasn't performed any miracles in my life, but he did inspire this little piece of grad school doggerel:<br />Saint Steno<br />Went to Reno<br />Looking for an angle.<br />He found some gold,<br />Some riches untold,<br />And he made the rocks untangle.	2003-05-10
US	49131037	R3DVLVC5XG3SAS	0060002182	507463742	Amazing Grace :  The Story of America's Most Beloved Song	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Grace Both Sacred And Secular	I sing and Amazing Grace is one of my favorite hymns.  I'm also a nontheist.  I'm pretty comfortable with those two seemingly incongruous facts, but I thought I'd read Steve Turner's book Amazing Grace to see if other folks like me had made it into the text.  I'm also an Arlo Guthrie fan and I figured I'd do some fact checking on the version of John Newton's story Arlo tells when singing Amazing Grace in concert.  Folks like me show up towards the end of the second part of the book and Turner indicates that Arlo is aware that his version is condensed and inaccurate.<br />The first part of Amazing Grace is the story of John Newton and how he came to write the words to what is now America's favorite hymn.  I learned a lot of history, especially of the slave trade in the 1700's, while getting the non-Arlo, complicated version of Mr. Newton's life.  The second part of the book follows the history of the hymn post-Newton.  Turner has done his homework and I especially enjoyed learning about the history of the hymn in the 1800's, including how Amazing Grace picked up the tune we now sing it to.<br />I highly recommend Amazing Grace to fans of history, music, and, of course, the hymn Amazing Grace.	2003-05-05
US	49131037	R1CBG3C1I6DRZO	0521781884	535094236	Uncertain Science ... Uncertain World	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It's The Uncertainty, Stupid!	One of the hardest things to teach to 9th-graders is that uncertainty in science, rather than being a bad thing [&quot;Are you trying to tell us that everything science says will be proven wrong!?!&quot;], is one of the things that makes modern science thrive.  Most adults don't get the uncertainty thing either; otherwise, more nicotine addicts might've realized that when the tobacco companies used the fact that scientists couldn't prove  that cigarettes cause cancer at a 100% certainty level as a reason to assure them that they could continue to smoke without worry, that those companies were misusing the methods of modern science as a smoke screen.  Henry Pollack tries to bring a deeper understanding of scientific uncertainty to the masses with his book Uncertain Science...Uncertain World.<br />Pollack starts the book by laying out some general facts about science and uncertainty.  He then goes on to gently chastise scientists and the media for their contributions to the public's lack of understanding of scientific uncertainty.  The meat of the book is an examination of scientific uncertainty in all its guises.  I especially enjoyed his use of examples that the layperson will easily understand [forensics in the solving of crimes and air crashes, how insurance works, etc.] along with tougher and more obscure scientific examples.  The example that Pollack returns to again and again is that of climate change and global warming [Pollack's own research has contributed to this debate], and the final chapter focuses solely on the global warming debates [scientific AND political].<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book and most of my complaints are personal ones involving examples I would have used in addition to Pollack's had I written the book. Any reader that has firmly decided that global warming is a __________ [liberal, Democratic, left-wing...insert your favorite!] myth should stay away from this book because you'll miss the overall message of the book everytime you get steamed about one of Pollack's climatic examples.  I would definitely recommend this book to any layperson who wants a good understanding of how scientists deal with, and benefit from, uncertainty.steamed about one of Pollack's climatic examples.  I would definitely recommend this book to any layperson who wants a good understanding of how scientists deal with, and benefit from, uncertainty.	2003-04-28
US	49131037	R2CBZRBVCNDDZO	0807077143	664277798	The Jefferson Bible	Books	5	235	269	N	N	The Good Parts New Testament	Did you ever wonder what the Gospels would be like without all that supernatural stuff?  Thomas Jefferson did, and he found out [in around 1820] by using multiple copies of the Bible and a razor blade.  The result was The Life and Morals Of Jesus of Nazareth in four languages.  The Jefferson Bible reprints the english version of The Life And Morals along with an excellent introductory essay by Forrest Church, Unitarian minister and son of Senator Frank Church, and a decent closing essay by Jaroslav Pelikan.  I have known about the Jefferson Bible for years, but finally read it this year on Easter [it seemed like a good thing for an atheist and rationalist to do].  Jesus said some pretty cool things [and some pretty spacey things], and the force of the teachings come out more when divorced from everything else that appears with them in the New Testament.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in the teachings of Jesus, or the mind and the religion of the writer of the Declaration of Independence.  And if your neighbor starts telling you that the public schools should start teaching the religion of the Founding Fathers, you can give them a copy of the Jefferson Bible.	2003-04-22
US	49131037	R3R1N3L1H13T3H	0970186274	884451414	The Execution of a Serial Killer: One Man's Experience Witnessing the Death Penalty	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Witness To A State-Sponsored Killing	Edward Castro was a piece of work.  He was a sociopathic serial killer who enjoyed his life of crime way too much. Professor Joseph Diaz is a Professor of Sociology who specializes in criminology and antisocial behavior, has a wife and kids, and is a very Christian man.  Professor Diaz was also a person who used to be ambivalent about the death penalty.  The Execution Of A Serial Killer is Professor Diaz' very personal story of how he came to watch Edward Castro executed by the State of Florida, and what effect this event had on his thinking.  I was thoroughly involved with Diaz' physical and mental journey, and highly recommend this book, especially to those folks who are either ambivalent about the death penalty or pro-death penalty, but couldn't see themselves pushing the button personally.	2003-04-22
US	49131037	R3IL4G300AGRRX	0471264822	314307211	America Declares Independence	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Declare Your Independence!	In his monograph America Declares Independence, Alan Dershowitz wrests our country's founding document from the clutches of right-wing fundagelicals who want to turn the Declaration of Independence into a call for a born-again America.  Thomas Jefferson, a deist, was the primary author of the Declaration, and his God was the God of Newton and the Enlightenment.  The most conservative members of the Continental Congress, such as the Calvinists, wouldn't have recognized the God of the modern fundamentalists.  And, Heaven forbid, there were Unitarians and Quakers who voted on the Declaration, too!  Dershowitz also holds forth on the meaning [if any] of natural law and tries to untangle the confusing persona of a man who could write the Declaration AND own slaves.  If you are interested in finding out how the secular nation founded by the Founding Fathers could become the most religiously diverse nation on the planet [and include fundamentalists who have the right to believe in and speak of a so-called Christian nation of the Founding Fathers], America Declares Independence would be a good place to start.	2003-04-22
US	49131037	R3IPDY53R8AI22	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Illiberal Thoughts?	Fareed Zakaria's The Future Of Freedom is a timely exposition on many subjects of current concern in this era of regime change.  As scary as it sounds at first, Zakaria makes a solid case for NOT shoving a recently freed country immediately towards one person, one vote.  He stresses the need for a country that wants to be a good liberal democracy to start with constitutional liberalism (protecting individual liberties, establishing the rule of law, and setting up a good system of checks and balances) before having free and fair elections, lest that country end up as an illiberal democracy with a freely elected despot as a leader.  Zakaria uses historical examples from all over the planet and back 200 years and more.  I thoroughly enjoyed The Future Of Freedom and recommend it highly, especially to people that think that nation building only means getting folks to the first election.	2003-04-22
US	49131037	R2N05D6ZTACHC4	0393057755	361013472	Terror and Liberalism	Books	4	24	36	N	N	What's A Free-Thinking Lefty To Do?	Saddam Hussein was a despot.  War is never pretty and should always be a last resort. The current president has trouble stringing together a sentence.  Some folks in the executive branch of the U.S. government think the end of the world is near.  Communism is dead, but a lot of folks on the left don't get it.  My wife is a Quaker and a pacifist.  I dont believe in ISTs or ISMs.  What's a free-thinking left-of-center guy to do?!?  I strongly recommend the thoughtful reader start with the learned musings of Paul Berman in his extended essay Terror and Liberalism.  Berman finds himself in a position where he can't agree with a lot of what he hears from either the left or the right.  After a detailed examination of many of the issues that impact the current war on terror and America's effort to extend liberal democracy around the world both directly and peripherally, Berman calls for a liberal American interventionism.  I didn't agree with everything Berman says and at times the book seemed a little too stream-of-consciousness, but it made me think in ways that I had hoped for.  Jump-start your thinking with Paul Berman's Terror And Liberalism.	2003-04-11
US	49131037	RIM8ST9NTTLVE	0618319387	370919796	The Nature of Science: An A-Z Guide to the Laws and Principles Governing Our Universe	Books	4	41	43	N	N	A Flawed Tour De Force	The Nature Of Science is an attempt by James Trefil to put together essays on all the important laws of nature.  The essays I've read to date are well-written, accurate, and on point.  And as with any work of this magnitude, mistakes were made and left unedited.  The mistakes range from minor typos to a few major mistakes [the chart of leptons on page 372 lists the 3 types of neutrinos as having POSITIVE charges].  The Nature Of Science is a case of excellent intent, but less than perfect execution.  My hope is that the publisher is serious about this book becoming the indispensable reference that it could be and quickly edits the problems out of future printings.  I wanted to give this book a 5 and out of frustration was leaning towards a 3, so I split the difference and gave it 4-stars.	2003-04-11
US	49131037	R1HGXXE3W3Z3YF	0375505296	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Boston Poets' Detective Club	The Dante Club by Matthew Pearl had two things working against it in my mind when I started it: 1) abnormally high levels of hype, and 2) the fact that I generally avoid novels that fictionalize real people because the authors usually take too many liberties with history.  Since I like Dante's Inferno and I like mystery, I took a chance on The Dante Club.  The book lives up to the hype AND Pearl did his homework and so was able to weave a plausible mystery [at least as plausible as any mystery novel] into the real history of post-Civil War Boston and some of its most famous citizen-poets.  I thoroughly enjoyed The Dante Club and strongly recommend it to fans of mystery, literary mystery, historical fiction, Dante's Inferno, and the Old Poets of Boston.	2003-04-11
US	49131037	R1K97BGXDDCQJM	0813533023	485643453	The Emperor's New Clothes: Biological Theories of Race at the Millennium (Biological Theories of Race at the Millenium)	Books	4	12	28	N	N	One Human Race	Joseph Graves' The Emperor's New Clothes is a well-written exposition of the evidence for one single human race.  Graves correctly points out that the human species could have developed into separate races, but that it didn't happen.  This isn't a book of wishful thinking, but rather a book of hard science.  If there is a political slant to the book, I didn't find it noticable.  I enjoyed reading this book.  A familiarity with high school-level genetics is required for a full appreciation of Graves' arguments and  my 4-star rating is based on my feeling that Graves' intended this book for a wide audience, but wrote it beyond the level of many of the people it was intended for.  People who are ignorant of one subject tend to be ignorant of many subjects.  How many bigots actually paid attention in high school biology and remember their lessons in genetics?	2003-04-05
US	49131037	R2BWI6I9QYSL4F	1574780204	13747680	What Next: A Memoir Toward World Peace	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Message That Is Not Just For African Americans	Walter Mosley's monograph What Next is an impassioned call to African Americans to use their collective experience and history to move this country and the world towards being a more peaceful place.  Mosley uses his own history with his father as a jumping off point to help him sort out his feelings towards 9/11, the war on terrorism, and [what was then the impending] war with Iraq.  In writing this monograph, Mosley is letting us in on his ruminations.  And what wise ruminations they are.  Even though I didn't always totally agree with Mosley and even though I'm not African American, I found a lot of good points to think about in this short, but thoughtful book.	2003-03-23
US	49131037	R2LG5Q8L3XAOHH	0618164723	392143634	Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Insulin Resistance Is Futile	In Fat Land, Greg Critser has written an important essay concerning the origins and effects of the looming obesity-driven health crisis facing the United States.  This book is especially important in a country that can't seem to get its health care costs in line.  Critser starts with the advent of cheap sweetner [high fructose corn syrup] and fat [palm oil], takes us through the development of supersized fast food and fast food in the public schools, and then moves on to what America's increased girth is doing to our health, with special focus on the youth of America.  Critser never denies a genetic component in individual differences in weight, nor does he make light of the need for people to feel good about themselves, but he stresses that ultimately an obese person is not as healthy as a person with a normal body weight.  Critser offers no panecea for weight loss, but sounds the now common [and accurate] refrain that a balanced diet that is lower in Calories accompanied by an increase in exercise is the only sure way to a healthy body weight.  Critser is a tad strident at times, but given the urgency of the problem, I can forgive that in this highly readable [but scary] book.  I wouldn't want the potential reader to base any decision on a small piece of anecdotal evidence, but I can attest to much of what Critser writes about.  When I started teaching 18 years ago, I was only slightly heavier than what the charts say my normal weight should be, but I had already spent a decade since my teens fighting my weight and bad eating habits [which were not my Mom's fault - Mama tried!].  Last July, I was 150 pounds overweight, had high blood pressure [already medicated to normalcy], had high cholesterol [also medicated to normalcy], and my doctor was telling me that I was showing signs of impaired glucose tolerance.  I faced my potential early demise [the morbid in morbidly obese] with great seriousness, went to the diabetic nutrition classes [I'm pre-diabetic, but my doctor doesn't want to wait until damage has been done], and I've lost 65 pounds.  My diet is much healthier and I walk every day.  It's hard, but the alternatives [are bad]!  Some of my 9th graders are facing the obesity-related health problems that I didn't have to deal with until age 43!  If you care about the health of your loved ones and the health of all Americans, I highly recommend that you read this book.tor doesn't want to wait until damage has been done], and I've lost 65 pounds.  My diet is much healthier and I walk every day.  It's hard, but the alternatives [are bad]!  Some of my 9th graders are facing the obesity-related health problems that I didn't have to deal with until age 43!  If you care about the health of your loved ones and the health of all Americans, I highly recommend that you read this book.	2003-03-10
US	49131037	RA00BIT5A02Z0	1592400019	655636593	Authentically Black: Essays for the Black Silent Majority	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Authentically Human	John McWhorter, linguistics professor at UC Berkeley and author of The Power Of Babel, takes off his linguistics hat and puts on his opinionated American hat and picks up the arguments he last visited in Losing The Race with the well-written Authentically Black.  I think I can best sum up the essays in this book by saying that they are McWhorter's call for his [and everybody elses] right to hold the tastes and opinions of an individual human and American, and not the opinions assigned to him as a member of a group [African-American males who have made it] and his call for everybody to get off their duffs, get educated, and get to work [something the lazy 9th graders of all shades in my science classes need to hear].  Even though I didn't always agree with McWhorter [because I too am an opinionated American, and not because I'm a slightly left-of-center freckled American], I thoroughly enjoyed wrapping my brain around his arguments.  More often than not, I found myself agreeing with him.  I highly recommend you challenge your current opinions and read John McWhorter's Authentically Black.	2003-03-09
US	49131037	R1OGBJXPKEA06N	0968750214	361402693	Give Us This Mars (As It Is On Mars series) (The Saga Begun in As It Is on Mars Counter Pack Series, 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Give Me Liberty and Mars or Give Me Death!	Thomas W. Cronin, author of As It Is On Mars, gives lovers of Mars fiction an excellent sequel in Give Us This Mars.  The political and suspenseful elements are still there, but Cronin has ramped up the action in this second book.  In Give Us This Mars, Denise Lavoisier, John Erway, their two children born on Mars, and Ichiro Sato have not only survived the decade since the first ill-fated manned mission to Mars, but have thrived.  The United States and the European Union covet what the Martians have built, and both governments aim to take it from them.  The EU crew, commanded by the villainous and brilliant Richard Derk, arrives on Mars first, and sets to work at the job of surveying the Kasei Valley area and \\"rescuing\\" the Martians.  The Martians are prepared for the \\"rescue\\" attempt, but Derk is a tough adversary.  Deceit vs. honest wit, superior strength vs. plucky resolve, big government vs. libertarian paradise - Give Us This Mars has all this and more.  The typos present in the first book are mostly absent in this book and Cronin's fiction flows more smoothly this time.  I enjoyed the first book and I truly think this one was much better!  I look forward to any sequel that Mr. Cronin has to offer.	2003-03-08
US	49131037	R3U7B12TVS3GEP	0300094329	141302760	California Dreaming: Reforming Mathematics Education	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Alphabet Soup To Suck Out The Math Teachers Soul	California Dreaming by Suzanne Wilson is a well-written history of math education reform in the State of California during the last half of the 20th Century.  This focused  and objective look at one state's attempt at educational reform should be a revealing read for anybody who wants to know why the process of educational reform resembles the production of chorizo [Mexican sausage] and often fails to work.  As a science [and math] teacher in California for the last 18 years, I found it an often frustrating experience to relive this process.  In education today, there are too many groups with too many acronyms producing too many and often conflicting mandates [make the material more rigorous and more enjoyable AND reduce the failure rate].  Most classroom teachers try to absorb anything good from the reforms while they are teaching as well as they know how.  I like Wilson's suggestions for fixing the reform process at the end of the book, but I fear the teachers in California and elsewhere are in for more of the same.	2003-01-30
US	49131037	R1X7X5DSV68NUD	0679435050	542049707	Cleopatra's Nose: Essays on the Unexpected	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Essays On Science And History	Cleopatra's Nose by Daniel Boorstin is a very good collection of forwards, introductions, lectures, and articles that Boorstin wrote in the '90s.  The collection seems to be loosely held together by two themes: science in today's world thrives on the unexpected and discovering the limits of our knowledge [the more we know, the more we know that we don't know] and that the United States is a different kind of country and that's what makes it such a great country.  If you are looking to read a book by Boorstin with one theme, then this is not the book for you.  For those readers, I'd recommend The Discoverers, The Creators, and The Seekers.  If you are a reader of essays or you are looking for smaller samples of Boorstin's writing, then this could be the book for you.  I read it straight through, and despite the repetition of material between some of the essays, I found it to be a quick and thought provoking read.	2003-01-14
US	49131037	R2Z3CHU319EUMM	0465090575	413738524	The Dream Of Spaceflight Essays On The Near Edge Of Infinity	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Call To Balance The Spiritual And Technical Plus More	Wyn Wachhorst has written some beautiful essays with the core theme of spaceflight and has collected them in his book The Dream Of Spaceflight.  The essays aren't perfect. Wachhorst often takes disparate insights from others and tries to connect them, when leaving them to contrast with each other would have been fine.  He is critical of the postmodern [which is fine by me], but he often uses terms in fuzzy and metaphorical ways reminiscent of many postmodern authors.  But ultimately the purpose of any good essay is to get the reader to think and Wachhorst succeeded with this reader admirably.  The deep and wonderful insights in the essays [e.g. The whole person must have both the humility to nurture the Earth and the pride to go to Mars.] come often enough to recommend the book with a four star rating.	2003-01-04
US	49131037	R2O0P3Z6DXJOJK	0192841009	554369456	The Ingredients: A Guided Tour of the Elements	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The Elements: A Short Primer In Thoughtful Prose	Philip Ball's The Ingredients is a short and sweet introduction to the chemical elements.  It is not a comprehensive description of each of the 110+ elements that appear on the periodic table.  Rather it is a history of the concept of an element and a definition of what an element is done in context with examples.  All the important terms from Chemistry 101 are there - atom, electron, element, isotope, neutron, nucleus, proton - as are all the important people and events in the history of the elements, but it is done in Ball's extremely readable prose style.  Even though I've taught basic chemistry at the high school level and I've heard all this stuff before, I thoroughly enjoyed this short, but concept dense book.	2003-01-03
US	49131037	R3GQZIGQZOKRKI	068816448X	71604462	Cave	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cave Poetry And Cave Art For Your Favorite Troglotyke	I love Diane Siebert's poetic picture books.  Her poetry is always fun to read, her content is always accurate, and she always has the best illustrators working with her.  Cave may be her best book yet.  Any child hearing or reading this extended poem will learn about limestone caves from the formation of the original layer of limestone to the actions of humans on the caves [both beautiful (neolithic cave paintings) and destructive (the destruction and removal of cave formations)].  The book contains the fun kinds of multisyllabic words that kids like to learn and say - words like stalactite, stalagmite, and troglophiles - and includes a pronunciation guide at the end of the book.  The book includes an author's note at the end that provides a little more background for the adult reader.  I highly recommend that you get a copy of this wonderful picture book for your favorite young reader.	2003-01-03
US	49131037	RARAKEK6QQC39	1401034144	577550273	Scholarly World, Private Worlds	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Rational Thinking 101	Karl D. Fezer's Scholarly World, Private Worlds is a must read for all thoughtful people of any worldview.  Originally written as a textbook for Fezer's undergraduate college course in Science and Religion, the book's format has been modified to make the book more accessible to a general audience [I knocked it off over a 4-day period during winter vacation].  The book demands much from the reader, so if you don't want to think and question your own thinking, stay away from the book.  No potential reader should smugly write-off Fezer's lessons - even if you think your thinking skills are excellent [and maybe especially if you think your thinking skills are excellent] - since everybody needs a refresher course on thinking skills now and then.  If you are religious and you think this might be an attempt by Fezer to turn you into a pointy-tailed fire-breathing atheistic secular humanist, fear not.  Fezer's mission is to get you to think about your thinking in light of a large number of &quot;generally accepted principles&quot; [which the majority of readers should find generally acceptable].  You can take what you need and leave the rest.  If everybody with a different worldview [and Fezer makes the point that everybody has a unique worldview] were to read this book, the arguments wouldn't stop [or become any less heated], but at least they'd stand a chance of being more substantive.  I teach science to 9th graders in an area that has many religious fundamentalists and have found that the writings that come out of the National Center for Science Education [a group that Fezer helped to found] have been helpful in the past.  It is nice to have this compilation of Professor Fezer's thoughts on thinking to help me teach future generations of citizens and scholars.	2003-01-02
US	49131037	R1VUGEWXUKRJGJ	0387955011	798581112	If the Universe Is Teeming with Aliens ... WHERE IS EVERYBODY?: Fifty Solutions to the Fermi Paradox and the Problem of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Billions Of Channels And Nothing's On?!?	Four guys walk into the caf at Los Alamos for lunch and start discussing extraterrestrial intelligence. They decide that life, intelligence, and conquering the galaxy shouldn't be that hard. Then one of them asks, \\"where is everybody?\\" Far from being the beginning of a bad nerd joke, this lunchtime discussion actually took place in the summer of 1950 and Enrico Fermi really did ask the now famous Fermi Question. The discussion and question led to the Fermi Paradox: if the universe is as old as it is, and if the Earth isn't the oldest planet with intelligent life, and conquering the galaxy is as easy as it seems, then where the heck are they?<br />Physicist Stephen Webb does an admirable job of discussing some possible answers to the Fermi Paradox in If The Universe Is Teeming With Aliens...Where Is Everybody?: Fifty Solutions To The Fermi Paradox And The Problem Of Extraterrestrial Life. It's a tough job, even for a fan of the Fermi Paradox like Webb, since it means being well versed in a wide range of subjects AND it means thinking like an alien intelligence. Webb describes and critiques 49 of his favorite solutions, starting with They Are Here And They Call Themselves Hungarians, and then throws in a fiftieth solution of his own design. The solutions are subdivided into three sections: 1) They Are Here, 2) They Exist But Have Not Yet Communicated, and 3)They Do Not Exist. The book is set up so that after reading Chapters 1 and 2, a person can read the solutions as they wish. Some basic math and science skills are required, but the book should be accessible to a wide reading audience. Albeit not a perfect book, I enjoyed reading Where Is Everybody?, especially since it made me think A LOT! This is NOT a book about flying saucers, alien abductions, and forced interspecific sex, so if that's what you're looking for, STAY AWAY from this book. Besides appealing to folks interested in the question of life elsewhere, it should appeal to any person with wide-ranging interests [both the natural sciences and the social sciences] who wants to exercise the full range of their brain power. For serial readers like me, read this one in combination with Rare Earth by Ward and Brownlee and What Does A Martian Look Like? by Cohen and Stewart for a mind expanding [and exploding] experience.<br />The answer to the question \\"is there life elsewhere?\\" is profound no matter which way it is answered. I continue to run my SETI@home screensaver and hope. It would be terrible if there were billions of channels and nothing is on.ests [both the natural sciences and the social sciences] who wants to exercise the full range of their brain power. For serial readers like me, read this one in combination with Rare Earth by Ward and Brownlee and What Does A Martian Look Like? by Cohen and Stewart for a mind expanding [and exploding] experience.<br />The answer to the question \\"is there life elsewhere?\\" is profound no matter which way it is answered. I continue to run my SETI@home screensaver and hope. It would be terrible if there were billions of channels and nothing is on.	2003-01-01
US	49131037	R94VXZL8KJR2F	0312420013	186767040	The Invention of Clouds: How an Amateur Meteorologist Forged the Language of the Skies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Reading Atop Cloud Nine	Luke Howard was an amateur in the true sense of the word; Luke Howard named the clouds for the love of them.  Richard Hamblyn does a fine job telling the story of Luke Howard's life, his naming of the clouds, and Howard's milieu in the book The Invention Of Clouds.  Howard, a Quaker and a pharmacist, went from unknown working man to celebrity when he presented his paper &quot;On The Modifications Of Clouds&quot; to the Askesian Society in London on a night in December of 1802.  The paper had the right combination of insights, poetry, and luck to insure that the terms cirrus, stratus, cumulus, and nimbus [or derivatives] are still being used by meteorologists today.  Hamblyn's weave of biography, history, art, and science was enjoyable to read and held together most of the time [Chapter 10: The Beaufort Scale was not as well connected to book as the rest of the material].  The hardback is such a beautiful and unusual book, I shelved my copy, waited for the paperback to read it, and then donated the paperback to the high school library.  I highly recommend The Invention Of Clouds to anyone with an interest in meteorology, history, Quakerism, or biography.	2002-12-25
US	49131037	R2WLNY4YZN7OPL	0071351612	938171009	Furious Earth: The Science and Nature of Earthquakes, Volcanoes, and Tsunamis	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Choice Of Disasters	Furious Earth by Ellen J. Prager [with help from Stanley Williams (Surviving Galeras), Kate Hutton (one of SoCals TV seismologists and the author of the earthquake updates on the TriNet earthquake website), and Costas Synolakis] is a well-written introduction to earthquakes, volcanoes, and tsunamis.  This book appears to be aimed at junior high/high school aged readers, but adult readers who have no background in these subjects will also enjoy the book.  An earlier reviewer suggested that the book has the coverage of the better chapters of an earth science textbook, but I wish high school earth science texts were this well-written.  I enjoyed reading the book despite the depth of my background and appreciate the refresher course that Furious Earth gave me.  My only complaint concerns the ordering of the color plates at the center of the volume.  The pictures are out of order to their mention in the text and the only thing that comes to mind is that they were ordered the way they were to make them fit on a limited number of plate pages.  Furious Earth belongs on the shelves in as many elementary and secondary school libraries as possible and would be a wonderful gift for a budding earth scientist.	2002-12-23
US	49131037	RPF3F61C59QV6	0471268895	173138167	What Does a Martian Look Like? The Science of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	4	7	8	N	N	It Isn't Easy Bein' Green	Jack Cohen and Ian Stewart are interesting thinkers and writers in the guise of Jack&amp;Ian, and What Does A Martian Look Like? is a very good, thought provoking read.  This book takes an optomistic view of the possibilities of life and intelligence elsewhere in the universe and proposes a broad xenoscience as an antidote to what Jack&amp;Ian see as the narrow view of astrobiology.  Rare Earth by Peter Ward and Donald Brownlee comes in for the most criticism [not for the writing, but for the opinions], being one of the most popular books on astrobiology in the last few years.  Stewart and Cohen do their best when they discuss their ideas in the context of science fiction stories and hit bottom when their criticisms of mainstream astrobiology begin to sound petty.  Fans of mainstream SF should be prepared for the dressing down of their favorite aliens.  If it'll hurt your feelings to find out that aliens probably won't look humanoid, do not read this book.  Although not a perfect book, What Does A Martin Look Like? [especially if paired with the book Rare Earth] will take the reader's thinking to the far corners of the universe.	2002-12-15
US	49131037	R29XP2Q8NU4IAO	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	5	56	56	N	N	Q Is For [There Will Be A] Quiz	Q Is For Quarry by Sue Grafton is different from the average Kinsey Millhone mystery, but I found myself enjoying this book more than I've enjoyed the last few novels in the series.  First off,the book takes place mostly in a fictionalized version of the southeastern corner of California [south of Blythe and west of the Colorado River] rather than the usual fictionalized version of Santa Barbara, California.  Second, Q Is For Quarry is the most police proceduralesque of the novels in the series.  This isn't suprising since the novel takes off from a real cold murder case and involves two retired cops as main characters.  Kinsey and the cops slowly unravel and reweave the evidence concerning the murdered girl found in the quarry until they tie up the loose ends and nail the killer.  If you don't like lots of detail, you probably won't like this novel.  Complaints concerning Kinsey's changing personality seem unfounded to me since the changes are consistent with the evolution of the character seen in the other novels.  I think that Q Is For Quarry is a very good entry in the 'Alphabet' series and I hope Sue Grafton doesn't give up on Kinsey before she reaches Z.	2002-12-15
US	49131037	R2R894AK3VR2OT	1557045054	756732338	Submerged: Adventures of America's Most Elite Underwater Archeology Team	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The Sometimes Extreme Adventures Of An Underwater Ranger	Submerged by Daniel Lenihan is an entertaining book by a National Park Service employee who truly and enthusiastically loved his job - doing recon dives on the underwater treasures owned by the American public.  The subtitle of the book - 'Adventures Of America's Most Elite Underwater Archeology Team' -  may be somewhat misleading, since Lenihan's adventures are usually tales of the initial dives to evaluate an underwater resource for future recreational divers and archeologists who will follow in his team's wake.  This is not a book about the day to day details of underwater archeology, and if you buy it with that in mind, you may be disappointed.  That said, Lenihan's tales about the founding and early adventures of SCRU [Submerged Cultural Resources Unit] are fun to read and Lenihan's enthusiasm is catching.  It is obvious that Lenihan has a dislike for private treasure seekers and if you don't share his opinion, you may not want to read this book.  If you have an interest in diving, sunken ships, the preservation of cultural resources, the National Park Service, or just enjoy rousing good tales of underwater adventure, I can definitely recommend Submerged.	2002-10-27
US	49131037	RCDNLLUH3ANE1	1893554503	226528891	More With Less: Paul MacCready and the Dream of Efficient Flight	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Too Little About More With Less	I've had the pleasure of hiking into the San Gabriel Mountains with Paul MacCready. I've gone to lectures at Caltech where MacCready was in the audience and I've looked on his [ever present] notebooks with wonder. More With Less is a good read and a quick read, but it left me wanting a full-fledged biography of Paul MacCready AND a more complete volume on efficiency in this high tech world. Despite this, I enjoyed Paul Ciotti's take on both subjects. As an introduction to both subjects, More With Less does a very good job. If you are looking for a more detailed book on either subject, my guess is that you'll be disappointed.	2002-10-21
US	49131037	R2DK14IVBG3Z46	0312245513	625849588	Mapping Mars: Science, Imagination, and the Birth of a World	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Divergent Mapping Of Mars	Mapping Mars by Oliver Morton is an excellent book!  Morton takes the reader on the very human journey to map Mars from Percival Lowell to the folks planning the 2003 rovers.  Along the way, Morton brings everything that conceivably connects to this mapping effort, including Mars art [I'm proud to say I have an original Bill Hartmann hanging on my living room wall] and Mars fiction [no, I won't sell you my signed first editions of Stan Robinson's Mars books], into the mix.  I also found Mapping Mars to be one of the best introductions to geology and geologists at the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century I've read in recent years.  My one complaint [and it's not really Morton's fault - Morton was just passing on a piece of history] is with the following passage:<br />[Robert Zubrin] told [his students] that no one did more for society, or was more worthy of respect, than scientists and engineers.  If that was so, asked one of the kids one day, why was Zubrin just a teacher.  Zubrin came up with an answer-he always had answers-but he took the question to heart.  He began applying to graduate schools....<br />I agree with most of the sentiment in this passage, except the part about teachers somehow being less admirable than scientists.  I was trained as a geologist and I teach high school earth science.  I get asked the same question all the time AND I too have an answer:<br />Someone has to begin training the folks that'll be the first people on Mars [and help the rest become damn fine citizens of the Earth].<br />I highly recommend Mapping Mars, especially to anyone with an interest in Mars, geology and geologists, mapping, the cultural offshoots of the exploration of our solar system, and the future.  I'd personally love to go and field check all those Mars maps we've been making back here on Earth, but I'll be too old, plus I have health concerns that would keep me off any crew (but like Gene Shoemaker, someone has to inspire and educate folks back here on Earth).  Read Mapping Mars and maybe you'll be inspired to go.lks back here on Earth).  Read Mapping Mars and maybe you'll be inspired to go.	2002-10-21
US	49131037	R11V1CNR8JNV6	080506883X	280671724	American Road: The Story of an Epic Transcontinental Journey at the Dawn of the Motor Age	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ike's Excellent Adventure	American Road by Pete Davies is the story of the first large group road trip ever taken in the United States.  Between July and August 1919, the Army sent a truck convoy from Washington, D.C. to San Francisco along the then largely unpaved Lincoln Highway.  Ike was there as a young officer.  The truck and tire companies were there assuring good product placement.  The Good Roads Movement was there.  American citzens were cheering [and booing] and Congress was watching.  This was the point in history where highways became a Federal concern.  Try to imagine the United States without Route 66 or I-80 and you'll know why this period was a pivotal point in road trip history.<br />American Road is history woven around the travelogue format.  As the truck convoy progresses across the country, we learn about the Army's switch to truck transport, the Good Roads Movement, the early history of the auto and tire industries, how the different states were handling their highways, about life in small American towns, and that Ike was a prankster among other things.  Even though the transitions aren't always seemless, American Roads is a smooth and comfortable read.<br />I enjoyed American Roads a lot.  My biggest complaint [and it's a small, whiny complaint] is that the book skips from McKeesport, Pennsylvania to Wilkinsburg, Pennsyvania and fails to mention the towns in between.  I lived ON US 30 [the old Lincoln Highway] between 1976 and 1981 in Forest Hills, Pennsylvania and still have family there, and I wouldn't characterize the area as a place that has the &quot;look of a place whose future has been and gone already.&quot;  I remember the Lincoln statue in Wilkinsburg.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in history, especially the history of US highways, and anyone who enjoys a good travelogue and a good road trip.	2002-09-30
US	49131037	R299FTAGVBUWGN	0446527092	368106156	Beyond the Deep: The Deadly Descent into the World's Most Treacherous Cave	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Further Than Beyond	At one time I was a skinnier human being and I occasionally went caving.  I never learned to use equipment for vertical caving and I only went through one sump [or 'near sump' as the book would describe it] in all my years of caving.  But I can tell you that being underground was one of the biggest thrills of my life, especially when it appeared that I might be entering virgin cave.  Beyond The Deep by William Stone and Barbara am Ende with Monte Paulsen should convey the trials and thrills involved with caving to anyone who reads it.  Beyond The Deep is an evenhanded book, addressing the concerns of all of the people involved with the 1994 effort to push the Huatla Cave System to it's deepest.  I am especially glad that it doesn't suffer from the blaming I found in the book No Apparent Danger.  If you like a good adventure [even if you're claustrophobic], I highly recommend Beyond The Deep.	2002-09-30
US	49131037	R2KFNNAWYMEV77	0060931809	112419171	The Map That Changed the World	Books	5	229	242	N	N	The Principle Of Faunal Succession	In the last unit of my semester earth science class at an Orange County, California high school, I frequently come face to face with fundamentalist Christian views of the geological time scale. I'm told that the scale is a fiction made up to support the theory of evolution. I explain to my students that the pattern of strata and fossils that guided [and still guide] the building of the geological time scale is very real and exists independently of the explanation of the pattern. I explain that people like William 'Strata' Smith and others who followed him established that the pattern exists years before Charles Darwin convinced the scientific world that evolution happened. I don't want to kill their faith, but I won't lie to them. Now Simon Winchester has given us a book that I can hand to my students and say, \\"here's how William Smith figured it all out.\\"<br />In The Map That Changed The World, Simon Winchester [in a very British and somewhat hyperbolic fashion] tells engagingly of the life of William 'Strata' Smith, surveyor, self-taught geologist, and maker of the first geologic map. I've known of Smith since my days as a student geologist [I can't recall that my professors ever mentioned the great map; their emphasis was always on Smith's discovery of the principle of faunal succession, or as Winchester writes in the book, \\"In his opinion, he wrote, all the rocks that had been laid down as sediments at a particular time in a particular place are laid down in a way that has much the same characteristics, and most particularly just the same fossils, and always appear in the same vertical order, in the same stratagraphical order, no matter where they are found.\\"], but Winchester takes the story of Smith way beyond the brief tales of the canal digger who was fascinated by fossils that are told in the typical college class. Smith has become an even bigger hero of mine now that I know of his struggles with the class distinctions found in England in the early 1800's and that he was all too human enough to have a problem sticking to a budget. I read the paperback since my signed first printing of the hardback is too beautiful to handle [the dust jacket of the hardback folds out into the geologic map of England and Wales that Smith made]. My only complaint, and it's a teenie tiny one, is that Winchester's hyperbolic writing style sometimes comes very close to crossing the line from biography into hagiography.<br />I highly recommend The Map That Changed The World to anybody with an interest in geology, paleontology, cartography, history, England in the 1800's, or the ups and downs of a fascinating life. Get the hardback for the jacket, but read the paperback and then donate it to your local junior high, high school, or public library.d that he was all too human enough to have a problem sticking to a budget. I read the paperback since my signed first printing of the hardback is too beautiful to handle [the dust jacket of the hardback folds out into the geologic map of England and Wales that Smith made]. My only complaint, and it's a teenie tiny one, is that Winchester's hyperbolic writing style sometimes comes very close to crossing the line from biography into hagiography.<br />I highly recommend The Map That Changed The World to anybody with an interest in geology, paleontology, cartography, history, England in the 1800's, or the ups and downs of a fascinating life. Get the hardback for the jacket, but read the paperback and then donate it to your local junior high, high school, or public library.	2002-09-07
US	49131037	R3KHBJG85KDJGK	0806124040	326544348	The Sharpest Sight (American Indian Literature & Critical Studies Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Flow Of Rivers, The Flow Of Lives	The Sharpest Sight by Louis Owens is a mystery, a police procedural, a thriller, an exploration of identity, and magical realism all rolled up into one excellent novel.  Sharpest Sight takes place in a [lightly fictionalized] Salinas Valley, California sometime near the end of the Vietnam War.  Attis McCurtain, Vietnam vet and insane killer, has escaped from the state hospital and may or may not be dead.  Mundo Morales, who is Mexican-American, Catholic, a Vietnam vet, a sheriff's deputy, and an old friend of Attis', and Cole McCurtain, who is Choctaw-Irish-American, and Attis' younger brother, must each try and unravel the mystery of Attis' disappearance.  Mundo is aided by his duty to his buddy, his duty to his position in law enforcement, his love of his wife and child, and the ghost of his grandfather.  Cole gets help from his dad Hoey, his Uncle Luther, a Choctaw elder and shaman, Old Lady Blue Wood, another elder and shaman, and his duty to his brother.  The local crazed bartender, a twitchy Vietnam vet FBI agent, and the family of the girl Attis killed also play a major role.  As the flooded river recedes towards dry river bed, all the characters converge towards a solution to the mystery and in some cases, a greater understanding of self.  Potential readers unable to suspend disbelief in order to deal with ghostly grandfathers and magical Choctaw dirty tricks shouldn't even try to wade into this novel.  For all others, I recommend that you dive into The Sharpest Sight and see where the flow takes you.	2002-08-28
US	49131037	R3A18E4NMV7N7T	0525940731	506253653	Nightland	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Storm Out Of The West	Billy Keene and Will Striker, the main characters of Louis Owens' novel Nightland, are half-breed Cherokees living on failing ranches in New Mexico that their grandparents bought from the Mexican-Americans whose family had a grant from Spain [who took the land from Native Americans in the first place].  They're out hunting deer when a man [who we find out is of Pueblo Indian blood] falls from the sky and ends up skewered on a juniper tree.  A suitcase full of money falls with him.  Despite misgivings, Billy and Will keep the money.  Then all hell breaks loose.  Nightland is at heart a thriller, but as with Owens' other novels, it is also a musing on identity.  Native American spirituality and the supernatural play a key role in the novel, so if suspension of disbelief is a problem for the potential reader, don't start this book.  This is a much faster read than Bone Game and The Sharpest Sight.  I found Nightland to be one of the highlights of my summer reading.  Oh, and as if my opinion actually counted, I think Richard Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino should buy the rights to Nightland and make a movie.  One of the pieces of sad news from this summer was that Louis Owens had taken his own life.  He left us five great novels, including Nightland.	2002-08-21
US	49131037	RU7QU3YPC4EAL	0553107445	940167612	Catch as Cat Can	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Junk Into Gold	Catch As Cat Can is the 10th Mrs. Murphy Mystery by Rita Mae [and Sneaky Pie] Brown, and this time Mrs Murphy, Pewter [the cats], and Tee Tucker [the dog] are helping their companion human, Harry Haristeen, postmistress of Crozet, Virginia, snoop around the local salvage yard. BoomBoom Craycroft, woman of ample bosom, rich widow, and Crozet's most famous sampler of lifestyles, has taken up welding sculptures out of junk metal AND sets Harry up with a Uraguayan diplomat. Miranda, Harry's helper at the post office, has her hubcaps stolen and then recovered. Harry finds a dead woodpecker and takes it to the local taxidermist. And as always, the dead bodies begin to pile up. Trust me, it all fits together. For anybody new to the Mrs. Murphy Mysteries, suspension of disbelief will be required when dealing with the fact that the animals can talk to each other and the fact that they solve the mysteries faster than the humans. REMEMBER, THIS IS MYSTERY LITE! I enjoyed Catch As Cat Can, but can't rate it up with the best of this series. If you enjoy lite mysteries, I recommend you read Catch As Cat Can and the rest of the Mrs. Murphy Mysteries.	2002-08-09
US	49131037	R2SHMCMK633OD2	087417502X	412710268	A Passion For Gold: An Autobiography	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Thrusting Often Occurs During Orogeny	Ralph J. Roberts has found that a devotion to family and geology can lead to a life well lived and he relates the story of his life well in A Passion For Gold.  Roberts spent 44 years with the United States Geological Survey and after retiring, became a  private consultant.  His most important discovery was the Carlin-type gold deposit.  The reader with a non-geologic background will want access to a copy of the Glossary of Geology to help with the few technical sections included in the book [there is a glossary at the back of the book, but it is not thorough enough].  There are a few awkward sentences and some extraneous commas [I think, being the extra comma and awkward sentece king myself], but this is a suprisingly comfortable read considering that most of Mr. Roberts' earlier writings were technical papers.  I trained as a mining/exploration geologist and so it was easy for me to relate to this autobiography, but non-geologists should find much of interest in Ralph Roberts' life story. It was on top of one of the mines near Battle Mountain, Nevada that Mr. Roberts writes about that I found myself deciding to abandon my masters thesis in geochemistry and to devote my life to the education of America's younger citizens [I teach earth science at the high school level].  I knew I couldn't help folks did big holes in the ground just for a little gold.  I enjoyed this book and recommend it to anyone with an interest in geology, but I can't give A Passion For Gold a full five stars because I think the technical sections could have been handled in a way that would have made this book a little more accessible to a wider audience.	2002-08-09
US	49131037	R1LYX53U9580D5	0553107437	479839252	Claws and Effect: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Find The Cat, Stat!	Mrs. Murphy, the most talented cat in Crozet, Virginia, is out stalking the answers to her ninth mystery in Claws And Effect by Rita Mae Brown [and her kitty muse, Sneaky Pie Brown].  Crozet Hospital, normally a place of healing, seems to be the source of a growing contagion of dead bodies.  Harry Haristeen, postmistress of Crozet, and her unusually talented companion animals are sniffing around town for clues between farm chores, sorting the mail, and fox hunting.  The Underground Railroad and its connection to the oldest part of the Crozet Hospital is touched upon [I would have liked have to seen this part of the story expanded].  There is one brief moment when it became hard to suspend my disbelief concerning the animals [it is a prerequisite of the Mrs. Murphy Mysteries that you accept the fact that the animals can talk to each other and that they can solve the mysteries faster than the humans], but nothing like the outrageous car scene in Cat On The Scent.  This was an enjoyable lite read, but not quite up to the best books in the series.  I'd give it a 4.4 stars.	2002-08-04
US	49131037	R21NY3V4WZOCKO	0553107380	601975576	Pawing Through the Past (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Re-dis-union	In Pawing Through The Past, Rita Mae Brown [and Sneaky Pie Brown] have knocked off the best Mrs. Murphy Mystery since the early books in the series.  In the 8th novel in this series, the Crozet High School Classes of 1950 and 1980 are preparing for silmultaneous class reunions.  Harry Haristeen, postmistress of Crozet, and her amazing companion animals are helping to set up the 1980 reunion.  Strange mass mailings start appearing in the mailboxes of the classmates of 1980 and the dead bodies begin to pile up.  The killings continue at the reunions and, of course, Harry is hip deep in the mysteries.  As always, I found it easy to ignore the fact that animals don't really solve mysteries [Cat On The Scent was the only book that pushed too hard on my ability to suspend disbelief] and that the real town of Crozet, Virginia isn't really the world capitol of serial killers.  Beyond the usual audience, I recommend this one to anyone who is going to or has just been to their high school class reunion.  This also would be a good place to start with this wonderful series of mysteries.  Read this light, but highly entertaining novel with your favorite cat on your lap.	2002-07-28
US	49131037	R3CHRY23DTEHJ3	055309971X	621617883	Cat on the Scent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crozet's Billionaire Boys Club	Civil War reenactments, small planes, shady land investments, and boys with expensive toys, plus the usual requisite dead bodies, are the focus of Cat On The Scent, the 7th Mrs. Murphy Mystery by Rita Mae Brown [and her cat, Sneaky Pie Brown].  Harry Haristeen, postmistress of Crozet, Virginia, and her amazing companion animals Mrs. Murphy, Pewter [the cats], and Tucker [the dog] are on the case as always.  The novel starts off well enough, but loses its way towards the end.  Reading the Mrs. Murphy Mysteries has always meant an extra measure of suspended disbelief [the animals talk to each other and always solve the mysteries before the humans do], but in this story the animals push the need to suspend disbelief over the edge with behavior that is way beyond what had been established for the animal characters in the previous six novels.  The end is muddied in a way that makes me believe that the author never firmly decided whodunit and finally just ended the book.  One of the novel's B-stories, involving a relative of Harry's and a dead baby buried in the \\"bone yard\\" of a farm, is very interesting and I would have liked to see that story expanded.  I did enjoy the novel, but not as much as the earlier ones.  This one rates about a 3.6 stars compared to the others.  If you're into the Mrs. Murphy Mysteries, you should read this one for the continuity, but if you're looking to try one of the novels in the series, I'd recommend that you pick another one to start with.	2002-07-24
US	49131037	R112WRPON9R7VC	0380978407	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	5	181	202	N	N	What Did Jesus Do?	The Gospels according to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John leave a gaping hole in the story of Jesus.  They tell of the shepherds, the angel, the virgin, the manger, and the wise men, then jump to Jesus as a thirtysomething rabbi.  What did Jesus do during his formative years?  Christopher Moore has an answer in his latest novel Lamb: The Gospel According To Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal.  Biff is Levi bar Alphaeus, son of a stonemason and childhood friend of Joshua [Yeshua] bar Jehovah, son of God.  The first section of the novel tells of the adventures of Biff, Joshua, and Maggie [Mary of Magdala] in and around Nazareth.  The next three sections take Biff and Joshua to visit and learn from each of the three magi.  The last section puts a Christopher Moore spin on the story told in the New Testament.  We can read the good news according to Biff because the angel Raziel has resurrected Biff [and one other person] to write their versions of the Gospel.  Biff's interactions with Raziel are interspersed with the main story, usually at the beginings of chapters, and [inconsistently] set apart as long block quotes.  This is a humorous book from a master of humor, but also a sensitive book.  I loved this novel.  Humor fans, Christopher Moore fans, believers, non-believers, mainstream Christians, and non-Christians should all love this wonderful book.  If you find sacrilege in non-Biblical mentions of Jesus, stay away from this novel.  You'll hate it.  You might even want to burn it.  You'll convince your friends to write gratuitous negative reviews of this book.  But in my opinion, any open-minded person who has ever mused about the life and teachings of Jesus will find a lot to laugh about and think about in Christopher Moore's Lamb.	2002-07-23
US	49131037	R2QXFOWIO52I3O	0553099701	636410691	Murder on the Prowl (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Catching Up With My Favorite Mystery Cat	My Grandma didn't like books with naughty language and excess sex.  In the '80s, I started to read different mystery series that I thought she would like and the Mrs. Murphy books fit the bill.  Even though Grandma's gone, I still read the Mrs. Murphy books because I'm hooked on this lightweight, but cute series by Rita Mae Brown [and Sneaky Pie Brown].  Murder On The Prowl, the sixth book featuring 'Harry' Haristeen, postmistress of Crozet, Virginia, and her very talented companion animals, is not the best book in the series, but is still an entertaining read.  St. Elizabeth's, Crozet's private high school, is the focus of the multiple mysteries in this story.  Film classes, false obituaries, field hockey, high tech car washes, and halloween dances are some of the things that occupy the time of our now familiar cast of characters.  It has never been difficult to accept the fact that the animals can communicate with each other or that they solve the mystery before the humans do.  My biggest complaint involves the poison used on the second murder victim.  Malathion can't kill people in the way it supposedly did in the book.  That out of the way, I recommend that you read Murder On The Prowl and the 5 previous Mrs. Murphy mysteries.	2002-07-17
US	49131037	R1AQMUROE9KTYW	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	P Is For Parse	Sue Grafton gives the reader lots of things to tease apart in P Is For Peril, the latest Kinsey Millhone mystery. The main mystery revolves around Dr. Dowan Purcell, a doctor who has disappeared with suspicions of Medicare fraud hanging over his head. Suspects abound: Dowan's ex-wife, Dowan's current wife, the current wife's ex-husband, the daughters from the first marriage, the troubled stepdaughter, the delinquent friend of the stepdaughter, the second wife's trainer, the male nanny, the stepdaughter's guidance counselor, and all the folks who work or did work at the old folks home. Kinsey is being paid by the first wife, but as always, she works to solve the greater mystery. I enjoyed the book a lot, although it isn't as good as the best of this series. My biggest complaint revolves around the twist at the end of the story. Without giving away the ending, I need to say that the twist seems to play on a prejudice of a hopefully dwindling number of readers. I suspected the eventual twist early on in the novel and it seems like a thin motive for what ultimately happens in this otherwise entertaining mystery.	2002-07-13
US	49131037	R2WDBMABYS45ZP	089296765X	145992076	Dead Midnight (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Dead Midnight: A Dark Dot.Comedy	Dead Midnight by Marcia Muller is a partial return to the old days of Sharon McCone. In this entry to the McCone series, there is no flight in a small plane, no Hy to the rescue, no searching for long lost ancestors [Listen To The Silence is a great, but very different, Sharon McCone novel], and very little travel outside of San Francisco. The book starts with the suicide of Sharon's brother Joey and a case involving the suicide of a young man whose family believes he was worked to death by an online magazine. Contemplating the whys of suicide pretty much go by the wayside as Sharon dives into the daily life of the family she's working for and the excessive goings on at the 'zine. This novel abounds with unlikable folks who deserve to get what's coming to them. On the one hand, the story kept me up to the wee hours of the morning several nights in a row. On the other hand, the story drifted from serious to dark comedy and could have been a little tighter. Call this one a 4.3 star book.	2002-07-09
US	49131037	R2Z8MPOBYQQMXZ	0399148469	24558712	Hunting Season	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Trace Evidence	I have mixed feelings about Nevada Barr's Hunting Season.  On the one hand, I wanted to see Ranger Anna Pigeon end up somewhere new rather than the Natchez Trace Parkway.  I like to revisit National Parks that I have personally visited or learn about a park I've never been to through each new Anna Pigeon novel.  The fact that Hunting Season might be considered Deep South Part Two made it seem a less enticing read at first.  On the other hand, it was nice to see the more detailed character development that a return visit to a location allowed AND it is realistic to have Anna stay in one place for longer than she normally seems to.  Ultimately, the novel was very exciting and it kept me up to the wee hours of the morning several nights in a row.  Local politics, poached deers, unmarked graves, shifting loyalties, folk art, and lots and lots of driving up and down the Natchez Trace Parkway all play a roll in this dark, damp mystery.  This isn't the best Anna Pigeon novel nor is it a perfect 5 stars, but it was far enough past 4 stars to give it the full 5.	2002-07-02
US	49131037	R2PWJQD3J9G2Y9	0399147020	447087218	Blood Lure	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Grin And Bear It	I have a soft spot in my heart for Glacier National Park.  When I was a teenager in the early '70s, my family made trips on Amtrack from Pittsburgh to Glacier and I had a grizzly bear encounter both trips.  One of the encounters was after a long day of hiking that included part of the Highline trail.  As an adult, I met my Dad and my stepmom in the park twice in the early '90s.  With my past on the table,I write this review with unbiased a heart as possible.<br />Blood Lure by Nevada Barr is a very good mystery.  It isn't her best Anna Pigeon novel, but still a worthy read.  Anna, our ranger and sleuth, is on a training trip to Glacier National Park to learn about wildlife DNA studies and grizzly bears.  She is working with Joan, the bear expert, and Rory, a moody teenager on an Earthwatch trip.  Rory's stepmom plays the role of dead body.  Suspects abound [both human and ursine], clues abound, and even though the end of the novel runs towards the preposterous, the ending is not out of keeping with the earlier novels AND it could happen in real life.  Remember folks, Anna Pigeon is a fictional character and most likely gets away with things that would rip right out of the envelope of the permissible in real life.  That said, the end brings my rating down low enough to give it 4 stars.  This isn't the Anna Pigeon novel I would recommend a new reader start with.  My advice is to start at the beginning of the series with Track Of The Cat or, if you must dip in partway through the series, I would advise you start with Ill Wind or Liberty Falling.	2002-06-28
US	49131037	R2AF2LGS38TAZ7	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hillerman Mines Gold	The Wailing Wind is a very good continuation of the Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee/Bernie Manuelito series within the now 15 volume Navajo mystery series by Tony Hillerman.  In The Wailing Wind, a current murder case being investigated by Bernie Manuelito, Jim Chee, and the FBI becomes entangled with a loose end left over from an allegedly solved case from Joe Leaphorn's past.  As we've come to expect from a good Hillerman novel, the characters have to navigate through the complicated cultural landscape and the rugged physical landscape found in the Four Corners region of the southwestern United States.  I thoroughly enjoyed the unraveling of the mysteries in The Wailing Wind.  To those folks who wished this novel [and The First Eagle] were more Navajo, I challenge you to take a trip into the Four Corners region and then reread the book.  As always, Hillerman has accurately portrayed the region and its people as they are.  A trip to the southwest would reveal this.  To all readers, if you can't take a trip to the southwest in person, then take the trip from the comfort of your living room with Tony Hillerman's The Wailing Wind.	2002-06-26
US	49131037	RCLV72V8YKYZ4	0060192895	623172566	Hunting Badger (A Leaphorn and Chee Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bernadette Manuelito #2	As a preface to this review, let me toss a little of Joe Leaphorn's order into the universe of Tony Hillerman.  First, there were three Joe Leaphorn novels, then three Jim Chee novels, then two pairs of three Leaphorn and Chee novels.  Hunting Badger is the second of the Bernadette Manuelito novels.  Whereas The First Eagle spends the majority of the time in the heads of its characters, Hunting Badger spends a mix of time between the internal landscape of the character's minds and the physical landscape of the Four Corners region.  The crime: a ripoff at the casino on the Ute reservation.  A manhunt ensues that involves all the usual law enforcement agencies, Chee, Leaphorn, Cowboy Dashee, Officer Bernie Manuelito, Professor Louisa Bourebonette [the mythology prof and Leaphorn's lady friend], and to my relief, the red rock canyons of Indian Country.  To my delight, this novel involved some mining geology [my training in college].  I'm glad to see the southwestern landscape return as a major player in Hunting Badger, after sitting way in the background of The First Eagle.  The First Eagle wasn't a bad book, but its lack of red rock made it a lesser Hillerman novel.  As old characters continue to evolve and new characters come to the fore in Tony Hillerman's Navajo novels, I hope the physical landscape continues to provide the sturdy base that it always has.	2002-06-24
US	49131037	R30NCSE2NQ9RBM	0681565888	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Exploring The Landscape Of Culture	Tony Hillerman novels explore two landscapes - the red rock/AAA Indian Country map landscape and the landscape of intersecting cultures and law enforcement agencies. The First Eagle spends most of its time in the second landscape, and for that reason, it's good police procedural and good but not great Hillerman. Chee is now an Acting Lieutenant and Leaphorn is retired [but still the Legendary Lieutenant Leaphorn in Chee's mind]. Despite the fact that Chee is a cop and Leaphorn is trying out the role of private investigator, our two main characters still solve the crime when they put their heads together. This is a story of agencies - health agencies looking for plague bacteria and hantavirus and law enforcement agencies looking for killers and good press. Differing points of view provide much of the tension in the story [Hopi v. Navajo, Washington v. the rez, Jim Chee v. Janet Pete, the truth v. political gain]. Yells Back Butte is the place where Jim Chee's murder investigation and Joe Leaphorn's missing person case intersect. If you must have lots of red rock in your Hillerman, First Eagle may disappoint you. I enjoyed The First Eagle, but not enough to give it the fifth star. A plea to all mystery reviewers: please don't give away the ending! I read some of the reviews on this site when I was part way through the book and one of the reviews gives away too much information about the killer while stating the reasons for the reviewer's displeasure.	2002-06-22
US	49131037	R2G3YAE1JQZQCK	0670030430	837277397	Brown: The Last Discovery of America	Books	4	37	41	N	N	It's A Brown World	Richard Rodriguez's Brown is a stream of consciousness journey through brown as metaphor for the very mixed world we are headed towards.  As a man of mixed culture [gay, Catholic, American, Mexican descent, indian, writer, etc.], Rodriguez is the perfect person to take us on this brown journey.  I know of Rodriguez's writings from the Sunday Los Angeles Times and I read this book on the strength of the newspaper pieces.  It was a thought provoking read that had my head swirling and I only got bogged down in chapter 2.  Be ready to hit the dictionary and the encyclopedia.  I live in a brown neighborhood in Whittier, California, I teach at a brown high school in La Habra, California, and even though my students would label me Anglo [I have reddish hair and spotted skin if anyone cares], given my very eclectic upbringing and interesting ancestry, I hope that I fit in well to the brown world around me.  I recommend that you read this book and let Richard Rodriguez get into your head.	2002-06-11
US	49131037	R11R7TZH56B0IL	0674006135	160288803	The Structure of Evolutionary Theory	Books	4	13	28	N	N	Review the Book and not the Man, or the Book Reviews, etc.	I normally will not review a book until I finish it [or give up on it], but I am making an exception in the case of Stephen Jay Gould's The Structure Of Evolutionary Theory.  I have just completed Chapter 1 and I came to this site to look at any new reviews of the book.  Some of the reviews were written by folks who either finished the book or read enough of it to know they couldn't finish it.  I commend all of you.  But a pox on the folks who wrote reviews [good or bad] of Stephen Jay Gould, the ideas [or perceived ideas] of Stephen Jay Gould, or the reviews of this book WITHOUT READING ANY OF THE BOOK!  When I come to this site I want to read reviews by folks who have read the books [we all have limited time and disposable income to spend on books].<br />My preliminary views [based on an incomplete exploration of the text in question] are as follows:  The Structure Of Evolutionary Theory is pure Gould, albeit more repetitive than his essays and popular books, with a thick vocabulary and the classic Gouldian digressions.  This is not the book to start with if you haven't read anything by Stephen Jay Gould.  If you don't like Gould's wordy and digressive writing style, you especially won't like this book.  Gould's writing [as usual] seems more nineteenth than twentieth century in style, which is something that I personally enjoy [I collect antiquarian natural history books like Mr. Gould did, but without the equivalent disposable income].  It's a good thing that I have a decent reference library, because I have had to struggle more with the vocabulary in this book than I normally have had to with the vocabulary in his other books.  This book is definitely more scholary than books like Wonderful Life, so stay away from it if you aren't into the subject of evolution at a more scholarly level.  I have found my own personal struggle with the text worthwhile so far.  My only complaint is the overly repetitive nature of the first chapter [the author acknowledges the repetitive nature] and I hope that it becomes less repetitive in subsequent chapters.<br />A pox on myself for indulging in review and criticism without complete knowledge.  Now I must get back to the book.itive nature] and I hope that it becomes less repetitive in subsequent chapters.<br />A pox on myself for indulging in review and criticism without complete knowledge.  Now I must get back to the book.	2002-06-10
US	49131037	R3BIEYI1S2UGKE	0789484250	341722749	Space Shuttle: The First 20 Years -- The Astronauts' Experiences in Their Own Words	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Compleat Space Shuttle	Space Shuttle: The First 20 Years is the best book on the shuttle program yet.  Yes, it has beautiful [and in some cases, unpublished] photos.  Yes, it has all the details you need to know to follow a shuttle mission from training to landing. But the best part of this book is that it contains the shuttle experience in the words of the astronauts themselves!  The book contains paragraph to essay length quotes from the shuttle astronauts organized into different chapters each concerning a different aspect of a shuttle mission.  This book is a cousin to the beautiful and now out-of-print The Home Planet [1988], although the quotes in that book were never longer than a paragraph.  To top it off, Space Shuttle: The First 20 Years is published by DK Publishing, a company especially good at this type of book.  Throw in a lower than normal price for a coffee table-style book and you can't miss.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-06-10
US	49131037	R3IC4I7VZDRKS0	1568983050	597006904	Survival City: Adventures Among the Ruins of Atomic America	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Buildings, Bunkers, and the Bomb	One of the characters at the end of the movie Dr. Strangelove intones emphatically, \\"we must not have a mine..shaft..gap!\\"  In Tom Vanderbilt's Survival City: Adventures Among The Ruins Of Atomic America, the reader gets to explore the actual architecture of the Cold War period.  The book is a well-written combination of essay, travelogue, architecture text, and archaeology book.  Even though the book is published by the Princton Architectural Press, it is well within the reach of, and should be enjoyable to, people outside the community of architects and architectural enthusiasts.  Mr. Vanderbilt set out on his travels because he wanted to know what the Cold War looked like, and even though I'm not sure he found everything he was looking for, it was damn interesting to come along for the ride.  My only complaint is that the book lacks an index, which I hope is remedied in later printings.  If the potential reader is concerned that the postscript concerning 9/11 is gratuitous or merely an attempt to cash in on the disaster, rest assured that it is an appropriate ending to the book.  The remnants of the Nike missile base nearest to where I live was recently removed for an encroaching housing development.  I recommend that you read Survival City and then take a trip to look for Atomic America before it's all gone.	2002-06-02
US	49131037	R3CXLJ5WN25BYW	0425183394	951527637	Casual Rex	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dino Noir - Part 2	Vincent Rubio is a velociraptor and private investigator working in Los Angeles.  If that sentence doesn't sound a bit off to you, then you should read Casual Rex by Eric Garcia.  Casual Rex is the second book about Vincent Rubio, P.I., but takes place before the story told in the first book, Anonymous Rex.  Vincent and his partner Ernie take on the Progressives, a church/cult that sounds a lot like a religion based in Hollywood, California that attracts some very famous people crossed with the Church Universal and Triumphant.  Figuring out this alternative world where dinosaurs didn't go extinct and disguise themselves as humans isn't difficult.  Even though Casual Rex and Anonymous Rex have been marketed mainly as mysteries, I think SF fans and dino fans will find a lot to like Mr. Garcia's weird world.  I enjoyed Casual Rex even more than Anonymous Rex and look forward to Hot And Sweaty Rex when it comes out.  I read paperback copies of both books so that I could preserve my first printing hardbacks in mint condition.  I'm betting that Mr. Garcia's early books in the Rex series will be highly collectible, not that my opinion is worth all that much.  About my book collecting habit...don't ask, don't ask.	2002-06-02
US	49131037	R3D9ZIR84258DY	0691050104	992591542	Earthshaking Science: What We Know (and Don't Know) about Earthquakes	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Rock And Roll!!!	I live in Whittier, California and get to fill out \\"Did you feel it?\\" reports on the USGS web site several times a year.  As a resident of the earthquake laboratory we call southern California, it's obvious that I should keep abreast of the latest news from the seismology labs.  But what about folks in New York, NY? Or Memphis, TN? Or Charleston, SC?  Earthquakes don't happen in the eastern United States...do they?  Actually, not only do they happen in the eastern US, but a large earthquake in the eastern US today would probably make Loma Prieta or Northridge look like practice runs.  Look around your neighborhood and the area where you work.  Do you see any unreinforced brick buildings?  If I have your attention and you're curious about the latest information about earthquakes, I highly recommend Susan Hough's Earthshaking Science.<br />Earthshaking Science is a tour to the edge of the scarp of what we do know [and what we'd like to know] about earthquakes.  It is NOT a comprehensive guide to earthquakes and plate tectonics.  If you're looking for the basic textbook version, try Earthquakes by Bruce Bolt or Living With Earthquakes In California by Robert Yeats.  Hough takes off from the basic textbook knowledge of earthquakes and takes the reader to the edges of seismology.  She covers everything from studies of ground response to the fledgling science of paleoseismology.  She apologizes for a California focus, but she does quite a bit on earthquake dangers in other parts of the United States.  I would recommend that potential readers have a basic background in science.  If you dream of short term earthquake prediction, this book isn't the good news you've been looking for.<br />Whether you've read every book on earthquakes or you're a scientifically literate person who has little experience with seismology, I highly recommend Earthquaking Science by Susan Hough.	2002-05-13
US	49131037	RP7WB0US3NZGS	0374116792	669918674	Bright Earth: Art and the Invention of Color	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Cinnabar, Orpiment, Lapis lazuli, Ocher, Realgar	Bright Earth: Art and the Invention of Color by Philip Ball is an amazing mix of color, art, chemistry, and mineralogy.  Ball takes the reader on a field trip through the history of pigments and the paintings painted with them, with a strong emphasis on the chemistry that he knows well.  The underlying thesis of the book is that the pigments available at a particular moment in history had a strong influence on the art made with them and, based on extensive empirical evidence presented in the book, I would say that Ball has made his case.  If you aren't prepared for large amounts of well-written detail, stay away from this book.  As a geologist turned high school chemistry and earth science teacher with a love of art, I found much to like about Bright Earth.  My only complaint is that the book makes mention of hundreds of works of art, but only presents pictures of a small precentage of them.  This book would benefit from a coffee table-type treatment with a more extensive gallery of the mentioned works of art.  That said, the book is far enough past 4 stars to give it a full 5.	2002-05-04
US	49131037	R2VEU7C5VHMDB7	0425183491	97412901	Steps to the Altar (Benni Harper)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Mysteries Of Love And Marriage	Love and marriage are the threads that stitch together the various stories in Earlene Fowler's most recent Benni Harper [quilt] novel, Steps To The Altar.  The main mystery involves the unsolved murder of a prominent citizen of San Celina [Fowler's fictionalized version of San Luis Obispo, CA] in the 1940's and Benni Harper's attempts to solve the murder 50 years later [the locals think the wife and her lover did the deed].  This plays out against the backdrop of the ongoing lives of our favorite citizens of San Celina.  Story blocks in this well-sewn quilt of a novel include the marriage of Emory and Elvia [Benni's nth cousin and best male friend and Benni's best girl friend], the marriage of Dove and Isaac [Benni's Grandmother and her photographer boyfriend], and the possible breakup of Benni and Gabe Ortiz's two year marriage when an old partner and lover of Gabe's shows up in San Celina.  Included at the edges of this quilt are bits and pieces of San Celina's annual Mardi Gras celebration. This is a wonderful novel [as are the others in this series] and I recommend it highly.  This goes for male readers as well as for female readers [I admit that I read the first Benni Harper Mystery, Fool's Puzzle, when I was screening novels for my grandmother (Grandma didn't like mysteries with lots of nasty language in them since she'd end up blipping over those sections), but I fell in love with them myself and have continued to read them long after Grandma died].  I bought three copies of the book:  one for myself, one for the library at the high school where I teach, and one for a favorite [quilting] colleague of mine [all signed by Ms. Fowler, who is one of the nicest, most sincere people on the planet Earth].  My Mom loves 'em, too!  So get a copy, wrap yourself up in your favorite quilt, and enjoy.	2002-04-08
US	49131037	R3APATRZBONTNV	0813530288	231081421	Upheaval from the Abyss: Ocean Floor Mapping and the Earth Science Revolution	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Answers From The Abyss	When I teach plate tectonics to my high school students, I ask them to consider the difficulty of building a comprehensive theory of the surface of the Earth when you don't know what three quarters of that surface looks like.  I also mention how amazing it is that Alfred Wegener got as far as he did with continental drift without the detailed knowledge of the sea-floor that led to the modern theory of plate tectonics.  David Lawrence has done a supremely good job at telling the adventurous and exciting history of plate tectonics in his book Upheaval From The Abyss.  This book has got it all:  ships, submarines, sonar, scientific [and emotional] arguments, sea-floor spreading, subduction, explosives and so much more.  I highly recommend this book for anyone wanting to go deeper into the history of plate tectonics than does the standard cardboard cutout version found in most textbooks, and especially for those interested laypeople not ready to dive into Naomi Oreskes' excellent, but highly detailed The Rejection Of Continental Drift.  I really enjoyed Upheaval From The Abyss and feel that others will, too.	2002-04-03
US	49131037	RU2D7KS47Y4X	0198503415	323970972	Nature's Building Blocks: An A-Z Guide to the Elements	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Elemental, My Dear Emsley!	John Emsley writes excellent books on chemistry and Emsley's The Elements [3rd Edition] is an indispensable guide to the chemical elements for scientists.  However, a layperson delving into The Elements may find it tough going because of its myriad numbers and tiny tidbits of text. In Nature's Building Blocks, Emsley dispenses with most of the numbers and expands the tidbits of text into page length essays on each element.  Even though the book is clearly a reference book, the section on each element is an enjoyable read.  Each section is divided into subsections that relate the element's significance to the cosmos, humans, food, medicine, history, war, economics, the environment, and then ends with a section called the Element of Suprise [one element's suprise is that there is nothing that Emsley could find to say about it that was suprising].  This book contains the kind of information I need as a chemistry and earth science teacher in a high school to spice up discussions on the elements.  All laypeople with an interest in chemistry need a copy of this excellent book.  Every high school library in the country should have a copy of this book on their shelves.	2002-04-03
US	49131037	R176NZRWCOOS9W	0716744732	95337721	The Power of Babel: A Natural History of Language	Books	5	81	86	N	N	Words, words, words!	John McWhorter helped rekindle my lifelong love of language with his excellent book The Power Of Babel (a title pregnant with meaning, and a damned fine pun to boot).  As promised by the subtitle, the book is a natural history of language,  showing how a hypothesized first language could mutate into all the languages spoken on the Earth today.  McWhorter has the chops as a linguist, and shows them throughout the book; he also loves language as a passionately interested human being, and this comes through in the excitement of his words on the pages.  He loves a good tangent, but generally restricts them to footnotes (which I read ravenously), and any reader who finds them annoying can avoid reading them.  Edwin Newman fans should avoid the book altogether; McWhorter's delight in the plasticity of spoken language and his mild disdain for the rigidity of written language will be a putoff to believers in one true standard version of a language. As a bonus, we get his very rational opinion on reports of recovered words from a Proto-World lanuage as an epilogue.  I highly recommend this book to lovers of linguistics, language, words, history, culture, and details.	2002-03-25
US	49131037	R1NO73ZT9P0J7J	0691004935	731636069	The Two-Mile Time Machine	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Certain Action Must Always Be Based On Uncertain Science	One of the most critical aspects of science appears on page 174 of The Two-Mile Time Machine by Richard B. Alley:<br />ALL scientific ideas are subject to revision; we should never be absolutely sure that the truth has been reached.  Old ideas should be tested continually, in an effort to tear them down and replace them with better ones.  Ideas that survive this constant attack will be especially robust.  Experience shows that if we behave as if these surviving ideas are true, we will succeed....  But, on the other hand, the ideas may be true, they may be reasonable approximations of the truth, or we may just be lucky.<br />In science, no idea, be it speculation, hypothesis, theory, law, model, or FACT, is ever considered to be the final answer.  That's the way science works.  We ALWAYS act on uncertain answers; we never know if something is the truth with a capital T.<br />The Two-Mile Time Machine is not only an excellent exposition of the use of ice core [and other] data to figure out the recent and future climate situation on Earth, but it is an excellent exposition of how science in general works.  Richard B. Alley, a participating scientist in the GISP2 ice core project in Greenland, has written an easy-to-read, but pull-no-punches book on a complicated scientific topic.  The book starts out with the basics of coring, dating, and analyzing ice, and takes the reader through to the political, social, and ethical implications of future climate changes, and concludes with Alley's take on what our responses should be.  He always states how much uncertainty is attached to any of the ideas he writes about.  If a person of a non-scientific background is going to have a complaint about the book, it will probably be that the book goes into too much detail about the evidence supporting the ideas.<br />This book is highly recommended to anybody interested in Earth history, climate, Arctic research, the methods of science, and anybody who wants an excellent science read.  The book is especially recommended to anybody interested in or involved in the debate over the future of the Earth's climate.  All people involved in this issue need to UNDERSTAND the scientific details. The issue of the Earth's climate future has become way too politicized.  Our actions are always based on ideas that have some level of uncertainty, but we must act, because the future of humanity will depend on what we do.The book is especially recommended to anybody interested in or involved in the debate over the future of the Earth's climate.  All people involved in this issue need to UNDERSTAND the scientific details. The issue of the Earth's climate future has become way too politicized.  Our actions are always based on ideas that have some level of uncertainty, but we must act, because the future of humanity will depend on what we do.	2002-02-24
US	49131037	R2XXD8LKLQ4ZGF	0066212448	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Can Stories Of Fencing Philosophers Be Falsified?	Wittgenstein's Poker by Dave Edmonds &amp; John Eidinow, a distant cousin to The Metaphysical Club by Louis Menand, is a good book, but not a great book.  The book is a parallel biography of two of the most important philosophers of the 20th Century, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper.  The book starts with the one meeting between the two philosophers, which ended with Wittgenstein wielding a fire poker at Popper.  I was originally going to give the book a full 5 stars, but I feel the ending let me down.  I was expecting the authors to tie all the disparate threads followed in the book together better than they did, but was disappointed when the book just whimpered to an end, especially after such a clever beginning.  I would still recommend the book to folks interested in philosophy, Wittgenstein, Popper, and the history of the first half of the 20th Century.  If I could, I'd give the book a 4.4 stars. ...	2002-02-18
US	49131037	R38W2LXWXM5KHQ	0716734966	990811486	Future Evolution	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Put Away Your Shades, The Future May Not Be That Bright	Danger awaits those who declare the existence of patterns based on paltry data, but I feel like living dangerously. I think I have discovered a relationship between the study of mollusks and the writing of great nonfiction on evolution. Exhibit A: Stephen J. Gould studies gastropods [snails for the layperson, or, as we called them in college, ghastly-pods] and writes books on evolution from the highest peak of the adaptive landscape of evolution writers. Exhibit B: Peter Ward studies living and fossil shelled cephalopods [relatives of squids and octopi] and writes books on evolution that have a mother-of-pearl beauty and a filling of tasty meat. Future Evolution is not the book that I'd recommend to first time Ward readers; in my opinion, first timers should start with Time Machines [1998] or Rivers in Time [2000, an updated version of The End Of Evolution (1994)]. But readers of books on evolution should make it a point to put Future Evolution [and Rare Earth (2000, co-written with D. Brownlee)] on their reading list.<br />Future Evolution is a beautiful book visually, making the hardback a must and worth the price. Paintings by Alexis Rockman compliment and illuminate the text by Ward. Future Evolution is a thought provoking book. Even though the book is grounded in our extensive knowledge of evolution and mass extinctions, any book about the future must extrapolate from the data of the past and this is dangerous in the historical sciences. Future Evolution is not a cheery book. Folks who want to hear that humans will save the Earth from themselves [or that humans will go extinct and leave the Earth to continue happily without us] wiil probably not be supportive of many of Ward's conclusions. For readers who want to THINK about evolution, Future Evolution is a must.<br />I highly recommend Future Evolution to any reader of good books on science and especially to people interested in evolution, mass extinctions, conservation, and the future of life on the Earth.	2002-02-14
US	49131037	R3LR5XR5JQ90FO	0385477740	332352105	Dinosaurs of the Flaming Cliffs	Books	5	3	5	N	N	So You Want To Be A Paleontologist	Michael Novacek's Dinosaurs Of The Flaming Cliffs is an excellent introduction to paleontological fieldwork and expeditions AND to the science of paleontology.  The chapters alternate between the trials and tribulations of each new field season and the basics of geology, paleontology, and evolutionary theory.  There is the occasional minor error [which I cannot relocate and since I just read a copy of the hardback, I cannot say if those errors have been corrected in the paperback], but these do not distract from the overall excellence of the book.  This book predates the confirmation of the discovery of the end of the Cretaceous impact crater in the Yucatan, so the discussion on the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous will seem a little out of date to the knowledgable reader.  I look forward to reading Time Traveler, Novaceks newest book.  I highly recommend Dinosaurs of the Flaming Cliffs to any fan of paleontology.	2002-02-11
US	49131037	R13GQDK45PK95R	0441008593	332922332	First Landing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some Interesting Twists In A First Landing Book	Robert Zubrin knows what he's talking about when it comes to Mars.  Any NASA/world mission to Mars in the next few decades will probably borrow heavily from Zubrin's ideas.  None of this guarantees that his fiction will be excellent, but Zubrin lands this novel and brings it back to Earth despite a few glitches.  The technical details of the story are excellent.  The twists in the plot make this landing on Mars different enough from other Mars books to keep the reader's attention.  Most of the problems with the book reside with his characters.  Unfortunately, the book is populated with astronauts, ground crew, and politicians that are too cartoonish for my taste.  The conflict between Luke Johnson and Dr. Sherman might happen on Earth, but they probably wouldn't get to take it to Mars.  And the conflict between Gwen and Dr. Sherman should have been left out entirely; Zubrin could have had his ending without it.  Ranting aside, I enjoyed reading the book and would give it 4.4 stars if I could.	2002-02-11
US	49131037	R311ZCGQNATJ4O	9622176771	831452563	Volcanoes in America's National Parks (Odyssey Guides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Take An Excellent National Park Adventure With The Deckers	When it comes to volcanoes, Robert and Barbara Decker know their stuff.  If someone wants one reference on volcanoes, I recommend Volcanoes by the Deckers.  Volcanoes In America's National Parks is an excellent addition to the literature of volcanoes AND the literature of America's parks.  The book covers all the National Parks, Monuments, and Preserves in the United States that have current, recent, or extinct volcanoes and volcanic activity.  Part One of the book is a section that covers the basics of volcanoes.  Then the book takes each Park, Monument, and Preserve one by one.  Part Two takes on the parks with volcanoes that have current or recent volcanic activity, such as Hawaii Volcanoes National Park [Kilauea is most likely erupting as I type this review] and Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument [the memorable eruption in 1980].  Part Three covers the parks with more ancient volcanic activity, such as Yellowstone National Park [a place teetering on the edge of erupting some day and moving into Part Two] and the Mojave National Preserve [a park I fought hard to get and one of my favorite places to explore - especially the cinder cones near Cima and the eroded volcanic tuffs of Hole-In-The-Wall].  Each park gets a generous description and an excellent map.  I've been to about half of the parks described and I'm familiar with many of the rest, and the Deckers do an  entertaining and accurate job with those parks.  Part Four covers parks with less direct connections to volcanoes, such as Yosemite National Park [ancient magma chamber] and Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument [ancient critters killed, buried, and preserved by volcanic ash].  Part Four is one of the nicer features of the book, since the parks mentioned often have too tenuous a connection to volcanoes for many authors to include them in this kind of write up.  As an earth science educator, I appreciate the inclusion of Part Four, because it makes Volcanoes In America's National Parks a most complete volcanic education.  The book is a 5 star plus and the only way I could see the Deckers improving it would be to bring out a second edition that gives the parks mentioned in Part Four the same one by one treatment as the other parks mentioned.  I recommend this book to anybody with an interest in volcanoes and especially for folks with a desire to get out in the field and learn their volcanology first hand.t complete volcanic education.  The book is a 5 star plus and the only way I could see the Deckers improving it would be to bring out a second edition that gives the parks mentioned in Part Four the same one by one treatment as the other parks mentioned.  I recommend this book to anybody with an interest in volcanoes and especially for folks with a desire to get out in the field and learn their volcanology first hand.	2002-02-11
US	49131037	R1Q26P8GFKQ5ER	0691009198	817103076	Chesapeake Invader	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Love A Good Mystery	Geology is a fun science and part of the fun is due to the historical nature of much of geology - geology is all about solving ancient mysteries.  Chesapeake Invader by C. Wylie Poag excellenty describes the solving of one such geological mystery.  Starting in the middle of the 20th-Century, geologists began to find unusual rock formations in coastal Virginia that didn't have a garden variety geologic explanation.  The plate tectonics revolution, which provided so many solutions to so many geologic conundrums, didn't unravel these weird East Coast rocks.  This mystery had to wait until humans wrapped their minds around one of the last great discoveries of geology, the realization that asteroid and comet impacts are an important force in our Solar System and that the Earth is not immune from the devastation of these impacts.  Poag gives the reader a good glimpse of how geologists [and scientists in general] go about solving problems.  Folks who enjoy learning about impacts, but are tired of reading about the end of Cretaceous impact, should enjoy Chesapeake Invader as a welcome change of pace.  [If you haven't read enough about the end of Cretaceous impact, I would highly recommend The End Of The Dinosaurs by Charles Frankel and Night Comes To The Cretaceous by James Lawrence Powell.]  I enjoyed going along for the ride while C. Wylie Poag solved this great geological mystery and I recommend that you also take this ride.	2002-02-09
US	49131037	R2IZP4V8GA7MN	0792271238	474941288	Dragon Bones and Dinosaur Eggs: A Photobiography of Explorer Roy Chapman Andrews	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Roy Chapman Andrews: A Real-Life Indiana Jones	Real-life is usually so much more interesting than the movies, and Ann Bausum's wonderful photobiography of Roy Chapman Andrews - Dragon Bones and Dinosaur Eggs - will be ample evidence of this to any young Indiana Jones fan.  Roy Chapman Andrews [1884-1960] was an explorer and is best known for the Central Asiatic Expeditions, which he led on behalf of the American Museum of Natural History and during which the first dinosaur eggs and nests were found.  He is also a probable model for the character of Indiana Jones.  Dragon Bones and Dinosaur Eggs puts its main focus on Andrew's life from his employment with the AMNH through to the expeditions to the Gobi Desert in Mongolia.  The book is a well-done combination of photographs, text, and block quotes.  The text is well-written and exciting [even for an older person like me], and the pictures help the reader to put themselves into the story.  Did Roy Chapman Andrews wear a cool looking hat? [YES!]  Did Roy Chapman Andrews dislike snakes and did he have a run-in with them on one of the expeditions?  [YES!]  I recommend this book to any young person of late elementary age who is interested in exploration and paleontology.	2002-01-28
US	49131037	R2JK5U3S9AQWIZ	0531113647	261852896	Pioneers of Geology : Discovering Earth's Secrets (Lives in Science)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pioneers Of Geology Rocks!	Pioneers of Geology: Discovering Earth's Secrets by Margaret W. Carruthers and Susan Clinton [Reading Between The Bones: The Pioneers of Dinosaur Paleontology] is an excellent overview of geology and geologists for the late elementary and middle school aged kid.  The book is well-written and kept my attention, even though it is a subject that I know exceedingly well and was written for a younger reader.  I am pleased that the scientists were presented in a true-to-life manner.  Too often these gentlemen are presented in a 2-dimensional, cardboard fashion that makes it sound like geology has saints that geologists worship.  I am particularly pleased with the inclusion of G.K. Gilbert and Gene Shoemaker.  G.K. Gilbert is arguably the best geologist from the age of the Great Surveys and is well-known to most students of geology, but is often overlooked in popular writing [perhaps because laccoliths, isostatic rebound, ancient lake shores and deltas, and multiple working hypotheses aren't as sexy as boat trips down the Colorado River or the wonders of Yellowstone].  Gene Shoemaker has gotten more press lately due to the public's fascination with asteroids and comets crashing into the Earth in the past and Jupiter in the present, but his whole life story, including his status as the first planetary geologist and as trainer of the Moon men, deserves to be better known [for young people who are particularly taken with the life of Gene Shoemaker, I also recommend Shoemaker by Levy: The Man Who Made an Impact by David H. Levy].  The book is well-organized, with each chapter subdivided into sections headed by boldfaced subtitles.  The book has several helpful appendices that present the reader with a Geologic Time Scale, a cross-section of the Earth, and a map of the Earth's tectonic plates.  There is also a glossary, a thorough bibliography, and a well-done index.  This book should be in every elementary school and middle school library in the country and would be an excellent gift for the budding geologist.nt gift for the budding geologist.	2002-01-22
US	49131037	R2TLXFJBOU59K6	0531113248	21676010	Reading Between the Bones: The Pioneers of Dinosaur Paleontology (Lives in Science)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bone Up On The Dinosaur Hunters	Reading Between The Bones: The Pioneers of Dinosaur Paleontology by Susan Clinton is not as good as Pioneers Of Geology, her more recent work written in collaboration with Margaret W. Carruthers [if that one is a 5 star book, this one should get 4.5 stars], but is still a very good book.  The book covers an eclectic and excellent selection of paleontologists, starting with Georges Cuvier, the first paleontologist, and concludes with Jack Horner, a model for the paleontologist in the first Jurassic Park movie.  I am glad Cuvier is included.  Even though Cuvier was the first paleontologist and convinced the scientific community of the validity of extinctions, he is often vilified in geology texts as an unscientific Catastrophist. [This is a misrepresentation of Cuvier and the Catastrophists, who were not unscientific.  They were just wrong about certain aspects of Earth history.]  The section on Roy Chapman Andrews [a model for Indiana Jones] includes equal billing for Walter Granger, the paleontologist with the Central Asiatic Expeditions, which gives the reader a better idea of what went on during those classic expeditions to the deserts of Mongolia.  The book includes a Geologic Time Scale, a good bibliography, and an index, but lacks a glossary.  Reading Between The Bones would have benefitted from the subsections and subtitles used in Pioneers of Geology, which made the later book easier to read.  My few reservations do not negate the fact that this book should be on the shelves in every elementary school and middle school library in the country and would be a killer gift for the budding dinosaur hunter, especially those who are not ready for the more advanced books written by Jack Horner and others.  I recommend you dig up a copy of Reading Between The Bones.	2002-01-22
US	49131037	R36NNUHJ12G690	068487282X	852020200	Mysteries of Terra Firma: The Age and Evolution of the Earth	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Time, Drift, and Chance:  Geology's Triple Play	Mysteries of Terra Firma by James Lawrence Powell, author of Night Comes to the Cretaceous, is an excellent introduction to what are arguably the science of geology's greatest contributions to humankind's knowledge of the universe.  These great discoveries are the age of the Earth [4.55 billion years old], the theory of plate tectonics, and the knowledge that the impacts of comets and asteroids are an important force in our solar system, including here on Earth.  In each of the three sections of the book, Powell takes the reader through the convoluted histories of each of these great discoveries, showing geology and the geologists, warts and all.  These histories illustrate the fact that science can be slow and imperfect, but ultimately does a good job at pushing our knowledge of the universe forward.  Mysteries of Terra Firma is an excellent read and should be enjoyed by anybody with an interest in geology, the Earth, or the history of science.  I also recommend that college and high school earth science teachers append this title to their supplementary reading lists as soon as possible.  I thoroughly enjoyed Mysteries of Terra Firma and I think you'll enjoy it, too.	2002-01-04
US	49131037	R3IZJJKA1TQWHM	0716740265	21200722	Barren Lands: An Epic Search for Diamonds in the North American Arctic	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Diamonds, David and Goliath, and the Dark Side of Geology	Barren Lands by Kevin Krajick is epic nonfiction without artifice. The author does not create straw heroes or villains, but presents the story and its participants warts and all.  The search for diamonds in North America is the story, and myriad searchers enter and exit during the tale's almost 500 years.  The ultimate discovery of the source of North America's diamonds in the Canadian Arctic is the goal of the story.  Charles E. Fipke, a person who presents a lot of reasons for the reader to dislike him, is the unlikely David in the story and De Beers, the company with a stranglehold on the World's diamond markets, is the Goliath.<br />Part of my interest in Barren Lands stems from my training as a geologist with an emphasis in mineral exploration.  Part of the reason I became a high school earth science teacher has to do with my weakness at keeping scientific secrets.  I knew that working for a mining or mineral exploration company would necessarily involve the nondisclosure of proprietary information and I knew that I couldn't do it.  The tension between proprietary information and open scientific discourse is strongly portrayed in the book.  Another reason for my interest comes from the fact that geology students of my generation were very aware of what these diamond deposits in North America should look like.  I have been telling my 9th graders for years that somewhere in Canada there are some diamondiferous kimberlite pipes that have been glacially scoured and probably contain circular lakes, making them difficult to find.  I have been telling them that someday someone would follow the diamonds in the glacial till covering northern North America back to the source of the diamonds.  Barren Lands allowed me to enjoy the fact that at least one of the things I learned in college, and then passed on to my own students, was correct.<br />I cannot recommend this book enough.  If you have an interest in geology, exploration, history, nature, and economics, this book should keep you up late at night as you eagerly read the book to its conclusion.  A special recommend to anyone interested in being an exploration or mining geologist.  Some mining is necessary and mining is necessarily a destructive process.  Mining resources like diamonds and gold present a large challenge to any environmentally oriented person since most of the money to be made on diamonds and gold is for luxury items, things humans could do without.hould keep you up late at night as you eagerly read the book to its conclusion.  A special recommend to anyone interested in being an exploration or mining geologist.  Some mining is necessary and mining is necessarily a destructive process.  Mining resources like diamonds and gold present a large challenge to any environmentally oriented person since most of the money to be made on diamonds and gold is for luxury items, things humans could do without.	2001-12-31
US	49131037	RX7AZHYV1YMCG	0312253508	214567501	Fault Line (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Did You Feel It???	What's more exciting than an earthquake that shakes you out of bed first thing in the morning?  Sarah Andrews' newest Em Hanson mystery - Fault Line - which kept me up until 2am this morning!  Fault Line finds Em Hanson, out-of-work petroleum geologist and fledgling forensic geologist, living in Salt Lake City, sorting out her life.  A 5.2 M earthquake on a branch of the Wasatch Fault wakes everybody up and the death of the head of the Utah Geological Survey really gets things rolling.  Earthquakes aren't Em's specialty, so we join her as she learns more about the fault lines that run under Salt Lake City and through relationships and families.  Cracks appear in the brand new stadium that is to be featured in the opening ceremonies of the Winter Olympics and in Em's relationship with her boyfriend Ray, Salt Lake City cop and devout Mormon.  Shaky ground is found at the site of a brand new shopping mall and in the relationship of Faye, Em's best friend, and Tom Latimer, Zen FBI agent and Em's mentor in detecting.  As always, Em the geologist teases out the big picture from a mess of details.  Be prepared to learn a lot about seismology and engineering geology.  Trips to the ski slopes in Alta, the [Flying] Pie Pizzeria, and the [beautiful] retrofitted City and County Building fill out the local color.  In my opinion, this is the best Em Hanson mystery yet.  On the Modified Mercalli Scale of Earthquake Intensity, XII means total destruction.  On the open-ended [Gutenberg]-Richter Scale of Earthquake Magnitude, a 9.5 is the largest earthquake ever recorded.  I can only give Fault Line by Sarah Andrews 5 stars, but if I could give it more, I would!	2001-12-26
US	49131037	R6ACR74OPXEPF	0871137895	96115448	The Eternal Frontier: An Ecological History of North America and Its Peoples	Books	5	16	17	N	N	He Didn't Forget The People!	Tim Flannery's book The Eternal Frontier is not a perfect book [but was closer to a 5 than a 4 for me], but given the amount of Earth history it covers well and in detail, it's a helluva read.  Flannery covers the history of North America from the really bad day that ended the Cretaceous Period up to the present day.  Flannery could've included so much more, but then The Eternal Frontier would've been turned into an Earth history textbook, which was not the author's purpose.  I do agree with other reviewers that more illustrations would have been nice [maybe if The Eternal Frontier does well, an illustrated edition a' la A Brief history Of Time or Longitude might be forthcoming], but for readers with a little background and a big imagination, the lack of illustrations shouldn't be too much a hindrance to enjoying the book.  The thing I liked the most about the book was the seamless incorporation of humans into the story.  One of my personal pet peeves is the rigid dichotomy of natural versus synthetic that often shows up in ecological discourse. Certain human activities ARE unique in the history of the Earth [e.g. humans produce chemicals never before seen on Earth], but to consider the ecology of the Earth without humans as an integral part is incorrect and foolish.  I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in Earth history or ecology, with a special recommend to those folks involved in any current environmental and ecological debate in North America who want to have a thorough grounding in the history of the place they are arguing over.  Whether for good or for ill, the near future of North America and the Earth includes human beings and all thinking humans should know something about how we got to where we are.	2001-12-23
US	49131037	R8NJX4G598HYW	0738200956	337290985	The Pursuit Of Destiny: A History Of Prediction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	It's Easier To Predict The Future When It's Become The Past	Paul Halpern's book The Pursuit Of Destiny is three excellent books in one.  The first book is a look at humankind's attempts to predict the future through the ages from a physicist's point of view.  The second book is a good overview of physics through the ages, including Newtonian mechanics, relativity, quantum mechanics, chaos, and complexity.  The third book concerns the philosophical implications of all this and its bearing on whether humans have free will.  The book is not overly technical and should appeal to a wide audience.  On occasion, I felt that Halpern lost the main thread of the book - the ability of humans to predict the future, but it never distracted from my enjoyment of the book.  I recommend this book to anybody with an interest in humanity's ability to predict the future or in physics.	2001-12-03
US	49131037	R2CUGNFYA3YUO0	0374299919	901466853	Adventures in the Atomic Age: From Watts to Washington	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Find Out Why Element 106 Became Seaborgium And Other Stories	To have an element named for you while you are still alive is the rarest of honors and Adventures In The Atomic Age: From Watts To Washington by Glenn T. Seaborg is the story of a life worthy of that honor.  Glenn T. Seaborg takes you on a trip through his life, starting with his boyhood in Michigan and his teen years in South Gate, California.  Hard work gets Seaborg to UCLA and continued hard work gets him to UC Berkeley, the place where most of his academic life will take place.  Seaborg was student, teacher, researcher, the Golden Bear's biggest fan, and chancellor.  Seaborg quietly affected all of our lives as the head of the AEC, and, for the most part, we are better off for his rational leadership of that organization.  He served on the committee that wrote the educational report 'A Nation At Risk' and served on the committee that recently reformed California's science curriculum.  He is proof that a public education can be excellent and that you get out of your education what you put into it.  The people who have heard of Professor Seaborg usually know him as one of the co-discoverers of the element plutonium, but this book should give anyone who reads it a wider view of a rich life.  Glenn T. Seaborg is not the household name like J. Robert Oppenheimer or Edward Teller, but hopefully this excellent autobiography will be a step towards making this wonderful scientist and human being more widely known.	2001-11-19
US	49131037	R1QUDGAUD81917	0066620813	906417094	Inviting Disaster: Lessons from the Edge of Technology	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Navigating The Machine Frontier	Inviting Disaster by James R. Chiles is required reading for the devout Luddite, devout technophile, and everybody else in-between.  I make this statement in light of the fact that humanity will probably not return voluntarily to the stone age, nor do we want turn the planet into a cyberdesert, where humans subsist on synthetics and tend to the machines.  Admitting that accidents will happen at the machine frontier, Chiles gives us a thorough look at engineering and machine disasters and near misses from the history of the machine age, showing us how we can learn from our mistakes and reduce the number of accidents to a minimum.  Well-known disasters and near misses like Three Mile Island, Challenger, and Bhopal, and lesser known ones like the Citicorp Center and the R.101 airship, provide the real life lessons that, if heeded, will allow us to develop a society that can handle its own machine creations with a minimum of trouble.  Normal folks who often find an engineer's desire to 'test to destruction' unsettling, should come away with a better understanding of how engineering-at-its-best works, and why engineers aren't sick puppies for pushing their creations to the limit.  Chiles writes as a technical writer and not as an engineer, which lends to the readability of the text.  He has done his homework, visiting the places he writes about, giving us firsthand accounts from the machine frontier.  Many, many people should read this wonderful book, from the everyday Joe or Josephine who wants to understand the wider world of technology, to the Science, Technology, and Society class that is looking for a balanced view of this important subject.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-11-12
US	49131037	R1FUZMPOQQL6WF	0865343179	444710845	Bodie Gone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bodie's Here	Bodie Gone by Bill Hyde is a well-researched, clever first novel that deserves to be widely read.  The story is a historical novel, where the main character is Tex Garland, a cowboy with gold fever and on his way to Bodie, California, wrapped by a science fiction novel, where the main character is Frances DeQuill, a newspaper reporter on the trail of the story of a lifetime.  Without giving away the suprises, let me say that my 4-star rating is based on the fact that the two parts of the novel didn't quite work together for me.  The historical novel with a different ending would've been fine with me -or- a better connection between the historical story and the science fiction ending.  That said, I enjoyed the story immensely and would recommend it to any fan of the history of the 1800's, the history of gold in western North America, the history of California, and the history of Bodie.  Despite some minor sex scenes, the book might be appropriate for outside reading in an American or California history class in a high school.  I recommend you take your own trip to Bodie with Bill Hyde's Bodie Gone.	2001-11-12
US	49131037	R2YV7VNKXPSDLU	0374199639	64824201	The Metaphysical Club : A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	9	12	N	N	How Ideas Helped To Save The Great Experiment	The Metaphysical Club by Louis Menand is a tour de force of biography, history, and philosophy, and is so well-written that it kept me up for nights in a row reading it.  The book focuses on four men, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, and John Dewey, their contemporaries, their philosophical musings, and the history of the U.S. from the Civil War to the early parts of the 20th Century.  Whether you love it or hate it, pragmatism is one of the offspring of this long and complex piece of history.  I like to tell people that I don't subscribe to any -ists or -isms, but I know that much of my personal philosophy stems from the thinking of these gentlemen and I found it interesting to see what their thinking was like, warts and all.  I found that reading the book helped me put a lot of things I'd been thinking about into perspective.  The United States of America is one of the greatest experiments ever conducted on the planet Earth.  Often things have faltered [as it did in the Civil War], but bright and determined people have helped to see it through the low spots.  The Metaphysical Club covers an important part of that story.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-11-12
US	49131037	R2581ZC8IFFW6B	0312283571	433898447	Trials of the Monkey: An Accidental Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Musings of a Monkey Man	This very unusually organized memoir of Matthew Chapman, great-great-grandson of Charles Robert Darwin, can be tough going at times, but is well worth the effort.  The book began as an exploration of Dayton, Tennessee and the Scopes Trial, but ended up as a deep examination of a human being.  Mr. Chapman pulls no punches when it comes to his own life and by the end of the book seems to be a man of greater understanding.  If you have expectations of what this book SHOULD be, don't read it.  As a person who thinks that a person can be spiritual without being religious or a believer in the supernatural, I enjoyed Mr. Chapman's musings on life, religion, evolution, and masturbation.  This book is hard to pigeonhole and I know that some reviewers missed the point[s] while trying.  Tell your friends about &quot;Trials of the Monkey&quot;!	2001-11-12
US	49131037	R1BFPTTZ24DTCF	0789479192	44128657	DK Guide to the Savage Earth	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Savage Earth the DK Way	DK Guide to Savage Earth by Trevor Day is an exciting introduction to our fascinating planet for preteens.  The book starts with the Big Bang and takes the reader through the whole range of earth sciences-related events and ends with human effects on the planet.  The book is done in the DK style with stunning pictures and short, to-the-point explanations.  The book has a good index, data tables, and glossary at the end of the book.  This would be an excellent book for the late elementary/early junior high aged young person showing an interest in nature or our planet.  The subjects are handled calmly and objectively, but could produce worry in the more faint of heart child.  Some students come into my earth science class thinking that the Earth is pretty boring compared to other planets like Venus or Mars, but learn differently once they've been introduced to our very interesting planet.  Introduce your favorite young person to our planet with DK Guide to Savage Earth!	2001-10-26
US	49131037	RGCAFSZW477OU	1892327988	521383232	Sunk Without A Sound	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An Amazing Book With Sweepage!	I'm no expert about the Grand Canyon or whitewater rafting - I've visited the canyon about 5 times over the last 30 years, spending 6 days on a spring break backcountry hike on one of the trips, and I've been on one float trip down the San Juan River [Bluff to 'Lake Foul'] on the spring break before or after the canyon hike - so I'm reviewing Sunk Without A Sound by Brad Dimock as an interested and knowledgable layperson. This book is an amazing adventure story, a gripping mystery, a brave piece of experimental historical investigation, the end product of extensive research, and an extremely rational and fair reading of the available evidence.<br />The book is a tapestry of stories sewn together with several strong threads. The main thread is the story of the failed [?] honeymoon Colorado River trip of Glen and Bessie Hyde in 1928 and the subsequent attempts to find a solution to their disappearance. It is the story of RC Hyde, Glen's father, and his obsessive, but loving, attempts to find his son and his daughter-in-law. It is the story of author Brad Dimock and his wife, Jeri Ledbetter, and their enlightening version of the original Hyde trip [they recreated the original journey in a version of the original sweep scow]. Dimock ties all these pieces together in one seamless piece of non-fiction.<br />I enjoyed the book immensely, especially the fact that Dimock told the most reasonable story that the research and the evidence supported. I recommend you take a ride throught the twists, the turns, and the rapids of this excellent book.	2001-09-15
US	49131037	R300J3OBOPRV3U	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Ketchup With Your Polemics?	Fast Food Nation by Eric Schlosser will enlighten you and should win a few awards to boot. If you are looking for an excuse to become a vegetarian, Fast Food Nation may not give you all the reasons you are looking for. Schlosser is not anti-hamburger and fries. The author clearly sees a place for the Great American Meal in the future, if it is done in a way that does the least harm to everybody and everything involved.<br />The arguments here focus mainly on the global incarnation of the fast food industry and all the other industries that feed it. This is more than The Jungle [although Schlosser acknowledges his debt to that book]. Industrialized, automated, de-skilled meatpacking is only one of the facets of fast food that comes under scrutiny. Want to get your jaded teenager ... and politically active? Have them read Chapter 3 of this book! Many of my students talk in a half joking way about being exploited by fast food. If they only knew the truth?!<br />Colorado Springs provides the human-face anecdotes that ground the general arguments in the text in the everyday reality of folks like us. Even though the subjects in the book are ultimately more downer than upper, Schlosser will keep you interested without making you want blow up your local [insert name of famous fast food chain here] in a suicide bombing. The book has left me with serious concerns about my truly bad fast food habit. Fast Food Nation is serious brainfood; it might even help you supersize yours.	2001-09-11
US	49131037	R3MXRCQ3FV6EHG	0525465286	260147576	Dog's Colorful Day:A Messy Story About Colors and Counting	Books	5	1	3	N	N	See Spots, See Spots Fun	Dog's Colorful Day is a combined counting and colors book. Dog accumulates spots one at a time [9 plus Dog's original spot], allowing the young person to practice counting from one to ten. Each spot that Dog accumulates is a different color [the original spot is black], allowing the young person to learn their colors. The art in the book is simple and effective.  The story has some pretty farfetched elements [the bee making the yellow pollen spot on Dog, a splash from a mud puddle making the GREY(!) spot], but it's a fun story and the savvy adult can eventually discuss the plausibility of each spot with the more precocious child.  The colors in some cases are different shades than I would have chosen to represent several colors, but the shades chosen do represent the colors they are supposed to. I enjoyed the book and think that it has more going for it than the typical counting or colors book. I would recommend this book for anyone with a preschooler learning colors and counting.	2001-09-01
US	49131037	R2LWO3PS6DVMPS	0684863030	622691915	The Baby Boon: How Family-Friendly America Cheats the Childless	Books	4	13	18	N	N	It Made You Think, Didn't It?	The Baby Boon by Elinor Burkett is not a perfect book, but judging from the reactions people have had to it, the book has served its purpose well. The issue of an increasingly pronatalist government in the US needed to be addressed. My wife and I are childfree by choice and we both have had to deal with the problems encountered by the childfree folks mentioned in the book. The book can be over the top at times, sarcastic to the point where the tone overshadows the message, but the message is important and the book needs to be read and the debate needs to be continued. One way to handle the book would be for the reader to read the opening essay and Part 3, and then go back and wade into Parts 1 and 2. This puts the emphasis on the message first and the sarcasm second. Keep in mind that we live in an age where sex is done primarily for fun and not for procreation. Keep in mind that we live in an age where there are a wide range of birth control choices. Children should be well thought out choices as often as possible! By the way, school starts in 3 days. This year I will teach about 360 of America's young teens about earth science. Most of those young people will be well thought out, well loved choices. But some of them won't be, putting them at a distinct disadvantage. I work hard for all of my students - they deserve that. However, I wish some of my student's parents had made a different choice. Not everybody should be a parent. We need a government that encourages well thought out choices, not procreation.	2001-08-27
US	49131037	R1NJAG6AKHWK50	0316106755	988895048	Edwurd Fudwupper Fibbed Big	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Has Telling The Truth Become A Radical Act?	Edwurd Fudwupper Fibbed Big shares a [partial] moral with The Boy Who Cried Wolf, but has cosmic consequences. Dedicated to Bill Clinton, this is the story of a little boy who lies and lies and lies, until one day a whopper of a lie catches up with him. It is also the story of an unnoticed sister [the narrator], who lies to save her brother and gains his notice. The story isn't a black and white story against lying - the sister saves the day with a lie and is both punished and rewarded - and would be a good starting point for a conversation about lying with a child, especially a child who has discovered that adults don't always follow their own edicts [never lie-lying is WRONG!]. The art is Berkeley Breathed [Bloom County, Outland, A Wish For Wings That Work] at his best. I enjoyed the book and figure a lot of adults will also enjoy the book [if you don't like some ambiguity, you probably won't like the book]. I don't envy the jobs of parents with sharp kids [I'm childfree by choice-I've never had to untangle the issue of lies with a child-yes, I do deal with lies and my 9th graders, but most of them have already developed their feelings about different levels/types of lying by the time they come to me], because you want to steer your kids in the correct direction and not lie to them at the same time. I think that the story of Edwurd Fudwupper and his sister Fannie would be a good place to start.	2001-08-27
US	49131037	R37L9I21UPQLYU	0195143264	871251126	The Borderlands of Science: Where Sense Meets Nonsense	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Random Walk Through The Borderlands Of Science	Michael Shermer is currently my favorite skeptic.  He always ends up making me think, whether I agree with him or not.  The Borderlands Of Science is not Shermer's best book.  It lacks the consistency of Why People Believe Weird Things and How We Believe (both of which I think are 5 star books).  Borderlands reads like a collection of essays (which I think it is - my back issues of Skeptic are either buried or at school, so I can't compare the essays in the magazine to the chapters in the book).  This isn't a bad thing, since the chapters make for good reading and thinking, but I think readers would be happier if they knew that at least some of the chapters where modified from earlier essays (I've searched the book for mention of the pedigree of the material, but I can't find any).  That aside, I think that Borderlands has enough meat on its bones for even the most skeptical reader.  The highlights for me were the chapters on Alfred Russel Wallace (Shermer has researched Wallace extensively and needs to do a full-length book on him) and the Myth chapters in the last third of the book (the Beautiful People Myth and the Amadeus Myth).  I think current subscribers to Skeptic Magazine may find Borderlands a bit of a review, but if you're not familiar with that magazine or with Michael Shermer's writings, The Borderlands Of Science should be a good introduction to both.	2001-08-23
US	49131037	RNEGUUAQ32PVR	0316108537	934921363	Goodnight Opus	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Teach Someone To Depart From The Text	I read two newspapers everyday and I always read the funnies first.  I miss Bloom County and Outland.  When I need a Berkeley Breathed fix now, I go to my children's bookshelf.  Goodnight Opus kicks penguin fanny.  The art is wonderful and it makes me think that daily cartoon strips and even the Sunday funnies were too confining to contain Mr. Breathed's exquisite artistic universe.  The story starts as a take on Goodnight Moon, but sails around the Earth and to the Milky Way by the end of the story.  The story ultimately delivers the wonderful message to 'depart from the text.'  The story will validate a kid with a wild imagination and might jumpstart the imagination of kid who needs to 'depart from the text.'  And Opus is in the story.  Goodnight to the review reader.	2001-08-18
US	49131037	R3DVW3HOUUEI6M	1565843444	849640122	Lies Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong	Books	5	23	27	N	N	There She Is, Myth America...	Let me preface this by telling you that I think that the scientific method can be used to do good history; I read Skeptic Magazine; I think that Guns, Germs, and Steel by Jared Diamond and Born To Rebel by Frank J. Sulloway are two of the best pieces of history writing done in recent years. I want to know what REALLY happened in the past. Lies Across America by James W. Loewen helps to teach us history as it was, not how we'd like it to be.<br />If you're like me, then you've seen a lot of roadside plaques in your life. If you're like me, you've probably wondered how much of a plaque says what happened and how much of the plaque interprets what happened in light of a particular point of view. Reading Lies Across America will help you tease the facts from the interpretations. The book is organized by region and Loewen includes write-ups on a wide variety of monuments and plaques from each region. Each vignette about each place can be read independently from the others, so the book does not have to be read straight through or in order. I enjoyed Mr. Loewen's write-ups immensely.<br />We live in a world where extreme afrocentrists want to turn the ancient Egyptians into black Africans and turn them into victims of all those dead white Greek guys who stole their best ideas. We live in a world where holocaust revisionists want to erase the memory of one of the greatest acts of ethnic cleansing in the 20th-century. We live in a world where young Earth creationists want to erase almost all of the 4.5 billion years of earth history. And we live in a world where folks want to abandon Thomas Jefferson as a hero because he had a relationship with one of his slaves after his wife died. History is what happened in the past and it isn't always pretty; history didn't always happen the way we might want it to happen. We shouldn't be embarrassed by the fact that James Buchanan was probably gay, we should be embarrassed by the fact that if you ask a tour guide about that fact at his house, you'll probably get an evasive answer. And personally I wish that the first gay president had been a better president, but that isn't the way it happened.house, you'll probably get an evasive answer. And personally I wish that the first gay president had been a better president, but that isn't the way it happened.	2001-08-15
US	49131037	R77ES4S12OBD5	0684187477	942004836	Cat Will Rhyme With Hat: A Book of Poems	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Poems For Cat Lovers	Jean Chapman did an excellent job of compiling a diverse collection of cat poems in Cat Will Rhyme With Hat.  From Ogden Nash to William Wordsworth, from silly to stoic, every imaginable cat poem is in the book.  I love cats and I love the poems, so I'd have to give the TEXT a five star rating.<br />The illustrations in the book are beautiful line drawings by Peter Parnall.  The book is divided into chapters and each chapter opens with one of Parnall's illustrations.  In my opinion, there are too few Parnall drawings.  The prominent Parnall illustration on the dust jacket seems to promise more illustrations than there are in the book.  The lack of illustrations drops my rating below a five.<br />The book is currently out of print, but tracking down a copy of this cute kitty book should be much easier than stalking sparrows on the front lawn.	2001-08-15
US	49131037	R3TYYIFX2ZBPSE	0688082041	33451058	Quiet	Books	5	3	3	N	N	quiet	In the late 80's/early 90's, Peter Parnall did a series of childrens books as both illustrator and author; Quiet is one of the best of those books.  Quiet is the story of a young man who has gone out into the woods to experience the wildlife.  He accomplishes this task by lying quietly on his back with seeds and apple cores on his belly.  He slows his breathing and doesn't move.  The birds and the rodents come!  The beautiful illustrations and the simple story do a good job of showing a child what quiet is.  It saddens me that this book is out of print and not widely available.  My 9th graders don't seem to enjoy quiet at all.  They don't know what they're missing.	2001-08-15
US	49131037	R3QT3TKAJW763N	0395825172	956346567	The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition	Books	5	23	24	N	N	If You Only Want One Dictionary [Only One?!?], This Is It!	I feel very qualified to review the 4th edition of the American Heritage Dictionary Of The English Language.  I've been using this now classic dictionary since the first edition.  The 4th edition is currently under my left elbow and my earlier editions are in my classroom.  It is the family Scrabble dictionary [the 4th edition contains the word 'vug';  the 1st edition didn't and I lost a word challange my grandmother made, and a Scrabble game, because of it].  My deep love of this dictionary started in the 8th grade when Mr. Code assigned our class a slang dictionary assignment.  Not only did the dictionary contain definitions of slang words, but the histories of the words as well.  The new edition has color pictures and the words are printed in blue green instead of black.  The pictures seem sharper in this edition, but I can't tell you if that's due to their being printed in color or because they're printed at a higher resolution and would've been sharper in black and white also.  I like the fact that the words are printed in color; my eyes have never worked very well and the color makes it easier to find the words.  As a bonus, this delightful dictionary has made it onto banned book lists multiple times [four letter words and all].  If you have to have only one dictionary [how could you stand to have only one dictionary?!?], then it is my opinion that this is the one you should own.  And for those folks who think that spell checkers have replaced dictionaries, these reviews must be done without a spell checker [the dictionary lists spell checker first and spellchecker second] button, and you can't browse through a spell checker.	2001-08-15
US	49131037	R3JB9V9D79W9OC	0826322077	243049207	Imagining Los Angeles: A City in Fiction	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Ever Since Ramona	I finished reading David Fine's excellent book Imagining Los Angeles:  A City In Fiction at just before 2 am this morning.  I was reading in bed in my 1923 bungalow in Whittier, California.  It was a quiet night.  No winds blowing; even the neighborhood dogs were asleep.  It was too humid and Fine's wonderful analysis of Los Angeles fiction had my mind going a mile a minute.  I thought about going for a drive; maybe listen to a little late-night radio, but I knew my wife would worry if she woke up and found me gone.  I finally got to sleep, knowing I'd have to type up this report as soon as I got out of bed this morning.<br />Fine's book is not encyclopedic; if you are looking for a complete listing of SoCal fiction, you'll need to look elsewhere.  Imagining Los Angeles is an overview - an introduction, a history with examples - of fiction set in the Los Angeles metro area.  The first chapter gives you a little background on the area.  Then Fine takes the reader on a literary journey from booster fiction, through fiction in the 20's, hard-boiled fiction, tough-guy detectives, the Hollywood novel and finishes with more ethnically oriented fiction and Los Angeles as a setting for disaster.  The book is serious - probably not a summer beach read - but it also kept me in rapt attention and didn't read like the textbook Professor Fine could have turned it into.  In my opinion, this book should appeal to a wide audience - from the serious literary student to the pop culture buff looking for a little backstory.<br />A lady just walked into my office (actually, my three legged female mutt just hopped into the 1980 guesthouse behind the bungalow) looking for my attention, so I better end this report now.<br />  Sincerely Submitted,  agnostictrickster  13 August 2001	2001-08-13
US	49131037	R2UJ556BVNS3O8	0740706497	445500566	The Brave Cowboy	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Do Things Always Get Better With Age?	Brave Cowboy is one of my childhood favorites (along with Cowboy And His Friend and Cowboy's Secret Life).  I have vivid memories of Mom reading me the books and my fascination with the pictures.  I received my copy of Brave Cowboy for Christmas in 1961 (I was 2 1/2) and I'm sure my own vivid imagination as a child is part of what made this book about a young boy's imagination resonate with my younger self.  The other day Mom asked me if I still had my old copies (a friend wanted to give them to her grandchildren or something to that effect), so I got them out to reread them.  The pictures held the same fascination for me now that they did so long ago (and made me wonder if part of my love of Peter Parnall's illustrations had its origin in these simple drawings rendered in two colors), but some elements of the story bothered me.  I know the book is a product of the period it was written during (a young child of the time probably knew a lot of what they knew from watching TV and movie Westerns), but the portrayal of the Native Americans in the story bugged my 42 year old self.  And Brave Cowboy seems a little flagrant with that toy gun.  I am NOT prone to heavy bouts of political correctness.  I think it was flawed back in 1959 when it was written.  But the pictures in the book are so cool!  I think any adult buying this book for a child now should be prepared to deal with these elements.  And hope that the other books come back into print since they do not suffer the same problems.	2001-08-11
US	49131037	R3VLX0E7CVFHYI	0395955637	604856199	Time Travel in Einstein's Universe: The Physical Possibilities of Travel Through Time	Books	5	49	56	N	N	Those Who Can't Remember The Future Must  Live It	...Time to cut to the chase ['cause life is short]: I really loved Richard Gott's Time Travel In Einstein's Universe! Let's get a few things straight: this isn't New Age sewage, this isn't a book about quantum mechanics [obviously it comes up, but general and special relativity are the backstory for this volume], this is a book that will be understood by folks who like diagrams [there are plenty] AND folks who like verbal descriptions [lots of those, too], this is Richard Gott's book and he does focus on HIS ideas about time travel and other things, the author does use examples from popular culture [mainly, in the first chapter] and always to good purpose. Gott outlines ways that time travel is and might be possible. He even shows how the origin of our universe might depend on time travel. He ends the book with an exposition on his thinking on the Copernican principle [it fits - read the book and see why]. I don't want to blow the ending, but I will tell you that it has a bit of a suprise. I don't think it should come down to a choice between this book or Clifford Pickover's excellent book on time travel because both books take a different tack and both books will expand your brainpan. In my opinion, this book is tasty brainfood. Now it's....	2001-08-06
US	49131037	R3LADNR8H5PT0C	0897211480	511434944	Creating Japanese Gardens	Books	5	58	72	N	N	Kill Your Lawn - Part 4	Creating Japanese Gardens has been a helpful tool in the process of killing my lawn.  If you've read my other reviews, you may wonder why a person with a cactus garden would need a book on Japanese gardens?  Think hybrid between a Zen garden and a cactus garden.  The basic plan for the garden was constructed with the help of this book.  Everything I know about Japanese gardens comes from this wonderful little text.  Most of the elements of a Japanese garden appear in my front yard, but with heavy substitution of Southwestern icons for Japanese icons.  Trade Mexican-style chimneys for Japanese lanterns; trade coyote for Buddha; trade the traditional plants of a cactus garden for the traditional plants of a Japanese garden.  The paths use redrock flagstone and the stones in the dry stream and other places in the garden all come from western deserts and mountains.  It's been hours and hours of dirty fun.  I do have a request-if you buy this wonderful book and intend to put a traditional Japanese garden in your yard with the traditional Japanese elements, please make sure your climate is wet enough to support the garden without excess added water.	2001-08-04
US	49131037	R3AA0EI6GM8PJG	071674094X	369997521	The Evolutionists: The Struggle for Darwin's Soul	Books	4	29	35	N	N	Just Like Punctuated Equilibrium	The Evolutionists by Richard Morris is a good book, but not a great book.  The core idea of the book is excellent and this makes the book worth reading.  Central to the book is the fact that evolution happened and that no scientist working in any field dealing with life disputes evolution.  Also critical to  the book is the fact that scientists in an active area of study usually do not agree on the details.  Morris quickly dispatches the creationists [sorry creationists, you may have convinced the general public in the US that creationism is part of the debate, but I suspect there is a special place in Hell for folks as intellectually dishonest as you guys are] and moves on to several areas of current debate in the evolutionary sciences, including punctuated equilibrium, evolutionary psychology and complexity theory.  Morris provides good coverage of all these debates, but too often repeats himself .  The book falls into a stasis of repetition punctuated by moments of brilliant lucidity.  Since I was highly motivated, I got through the frequent recaps to the next batch of new insights.  My fear is that a less motivated reader will fail to make it to the end of the book.  I also worry about some of the focus on the personalities involved [yeah, I can see the title is The Evolutionists].  I have read every essay Stephen Jay Gould has written for Natural History and respect his intelligence and I enjoy Richard Dawkins books even though I don't always agree with him, but if Morris depicts their behavior correctly, I think we have a situation of intelligent men behaving badly and I would have liked the focus to stay on the substantive parts of the debate and minimize the ad hominem crappola.  That said, I do think you should read this book.	2001-08-02
US	49131037	R2F6D20THB4QLC	1859674607	928486541	The Ultimate Book of Cacti & Succulents	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Kill Your Lawn - Part 1	For many years my students heard me say that when I bought my own house, I would kill my lawn and plant a cactus garden.  Three years ago, I bought my very own California bungalow here in Whittier and began to convert the front yard into a cactus garden.  One of the most helpful references in the process has been The Ultimate Book Of Cacti And Succulents by Miles Anderson.  This book is not an encyclopedia nor is it meant to be.  This book is a comprehensive introduction to cacti and succulents.  It covers subjects such as planting and care and it also covers a selection of representative plants.  The style of the book is similar to all the great books put out by DK.  The garden is still a work in progress, but if you saw it you'd know how much this great book has helped.	2001-08-01
US	49131037	R1TCSUMTZTRO1K	0376038748	848132755	Western Garden Book, 2001 Edition	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Kill Your Lawn - Part 3	I live in Zone 23 of the Sunset Western Garden Book.  In my zone, a nice looking lawn takes a lot of water.  I suspect that's why most of the lawns in my area look mediocre.  I feel the pain of my neighbors.  It's not that they're lazy, it's just that they want to conserve water.  I say to them...KILL YOUR LAWN!!  I did and I get hours of enjoyment working in the resulting cactus garden.  A copy of the Sunset Western Garden Book is a requirement for anyone putting together a garden in the west, especially if you intend to kill your lawn.<br />Using the book is easy.  First you find your zone.  Once you've found your zone, you can find plants to fit any situation you encounter in your own yard.  The details in the book allow you to fine tune your garden for areas of shade and sunshine.  The book will give you alternatives to plants you might want, but that don't grow well in your zone.  In my case, if it needs a lot of water, it's gone.<br />The advantage to this book is the use of 24 zones.  This is a finer zoning than the USDA zones used by many garden books.  I think I'll go out and plant another cactus and I suggest that you go out and get your own copy of the Sunset Western Garden Book.	2001-08-01
US	49131037	R11VBHY3ZQ2EZM	0789416573	170640469	The Complete Book of Cacti & Succulents	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Kill Your Lawn - Part 2	Several years ago I converted my front lawn into a cactus garden.  Actually, it's a hybrid cactus/zen garden.  It has the requisite stream [dry of course] and dry pond.  The buddhas have been replaced by coyotes and the lamps by Mexican-style chimneys.  My neighbors seem to like it [at least they haven't tried to run me out of town].  Terry Hewitt's The Complete Book Of Cacti and Succulents has been an invaluable reference in my cactus education.  It's a DK book and therefore has the killer DK style that I love so much.  It's not as comprehensive as Miles Anderson's The Ultimate Book Of Cacti And Succulents [which Terry Hewitt consulted on], but it is still an excellent reference.  My rating is actually higher than 4 stars, but not high enough to make it a 5 star book.	2001-08-01
US	49131037	R1R7JB978B8AGZ	0689711409	256408278	The Song of the Swallows	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A Beautiful Book You'll Return To Again And Again	This summer the swallows returned to San Juan Capistrano, but many didn't nest at the mission.  Due to restoration work at the mission, many of the swallows decided to nest at a single family home nearby.  A family of swallows even decided to nest in the high entranceway to my neighbor's house here in Whittier [about an hour north of SJC].  It reminded me that it was time to get out my copy of Leo Politi's beautiful book Song Of The Swallows and read it again.  This excellently illustrated book tells the story of the yearly nesting of the swallows through the story of the relationship between Julian, a bell ringer at the mission, and Juan, a young school boy who lives nearby.  Politi's exquisite art tells the story as much or more than his words.  This was one of my favorite story books from my childhood and I'm lucky to still have the copy given to me as a young boy.  The story still enchants me in my middle ages.  Like many older copies of Politi's books, my copy was personalized to me by Politi [he didn't just sign the books, he did a personal watercolor on the front endpaper].  Please make this story a part of your child's personal library.	2001-07-30
US	49131037	R1O5GC6OTMALMX	0140134514	103273625	A Box of Rain: Lyrics: 1965-1993 (Poets, Penguin)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	'If My Words Did Glow With The Gold Of Sunshine........	...and my tunes were played on the harp unstrung would you hear my voice come through the music would you hold it near as it were your own?'  Part of the experience of a Grateful Dead concert (and now The Other Ones, Ratdog, Phil Lesh and friends, and Mickey Hart's band) was listening to the words of Robert Hunter dance and twirl in your head.  Hunter probably isn't the greatest American poet of the second half of the 20th Century, but he does know how to turn a phrase, borrow a line, and mix a metaphor.  And his strange mix of phrases went well with the strange mix of American music written by the late Jerry Garcia.  Box Of Rain is a must reference for anyone interested in the lyrical end of rock and roll.  The book will clear up many an on going debate on just what Jerry was singing all those nights so long ago.  And for all those people who can't understand why the Grateful Dead was so successful, this book will let you in on part of the secret.  'If you get confused, just listen to the music play....'	2001-07-29
US	49131037	R1TR465FSJ5DC3	0812555198	412077931	Earthquake Weather (Tor Fantasy)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Red, Red Wine.........	Let me preface this by saying that I generally avoid reading fantasy.  I've never read Lord Of The Rings and I bet I never will.  But some fantasy will entertain my skeptical, scientific, hard-to-shut-off-the-BS-filters mind.  Tim Powers' Fisher King trilogy is one such set of fantasy novels.  First, there's Last Call, which introduces Scott Crane and future-telling poker hands.  Second, there's Expiration Date, where the ghost of Thomas Edison leads Koot Hoomie Parganas through a hellish version of Los Angeles.  The final book in this [as described by the author] loose trilogy is Earthquake Weather.  What a wild ride!  All of the important characters are back from the first two novels [which is why you should read those first - each of the first two can stand alone, but this one reads better if you know the backstory of the first two].  This novel introduces three (if the Janis character only constitutes one character) important new characters: Janis Plumtree, a person with multiple personalities and the murderer of Scott Crane, Fisher King of the American West;  Dr. Armentrout, a psychiatrist in desperate need of healing himself and a frequent companion to Long John Beach [Sherman Oaks from Expiration Date]; and Sid 'Scant' Cochran, a recent widower with the mark of Dionysius on his hand.  From various locations in southern California, the characters, both old and new, converge on San Francisco and the possible resurrection of Scott Crane.  Be ready to hit the reference books; this novel requires knowledge about a wide range of things - all the way from Androcles to Zinfandel.  Yes, the story can get confusing, even when you've read the first two novels.  If I could give fractional ratings, this novel would rate more than 4 stars, but less than 5 stars.  Even though they are not easy reads, Earthquake Weather and the preceding two novels are well worth the effort.	2001-07-27
US	49131037	R38JM64UEVU4J9	0929591437	859001718	Benchmark California Road & Recreation Atlas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What A Relief [Map]	No one map [or atlas] can serve all purposes.  The Benchmark California Road And Recreation Atlas seems to fill a middle ground between the pure road atlas [the Thomas Guide California atlas is my number one pick in this category] and a topographic/backroads atlas [the DeLorme atlases are my favorites in this category].  The Benchmark atlases are good road atlases with color-coded and shaded relief added to indicate topography.  Each map covers more territory than the maps in the DeLorme atlases.  This means less detail than the DeLorme maps and I wouldn't want to do much backroad driving with only the Benchmark atlas available for reference.  I generally bring my copy of the Benchmark atlas with me on road trips because I find it good for doing a visual and mental overview of the area I'm exploring.  I think all travel enthusiasts should have a copy of this atlas in their map library and especially those who want information on topography, but are contour line phobic.	2001-07-25
US	49131037	RW1APQ317N32T	1581743319	28848840	Thomas Guide 2001 California Road Atlas & Driver's Guide (California Road Atlas and Driver's Guide)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Critical California Reference	Most California residents are not rich and cannot afford every Thomas Guide there is [although we can dream], so we have to be selective and pick the most critical ones.  Given that I live in Whittier, I replace my Los Angeles/Orange Counties Thomas Guide every two years.  For those places I don't travel through as often, this atlas usually fills the bill.  Besides having detailed highway maps for all of California, it has detailed maps for the more commonly travelled urban areas.  Many a time I've forgotten to pick up a detailed road map for my destination and this handy atlas has saved the day.  It doesn't have every detailed urban map in the state [we're back to dreaming about owning all the Thomas Guides], so a trip to the auto club may be necessary for some places.  And as always, I feel for the folks who live in areas that are not mapped by the Thomas Bros!	2001-07-24
US	49131037	RL65VTHJW8FCN	0930313062	430976692	A Pocket Guide to the Identification of First Editions	Books	5	89	92	N	N	Searching For That  Elusive First Printing	I owe quite a lot to Bill McBride and his A Pocket Guide to the Identification of First Editions.  When I started collecting books in earnest over a decade ago, I knew very little about first editions [more correctly 'first printings'].  My first education in 'firsts' came from a 3rd Edition of this handy little book.  I always carry it [now the 6th Revised Edition] when I'm doing the used bookstores somewhere [the urban counterpart to the rock collecting I do in the outback] and many times Mr. McBride's little book has saved me from buying a book misidentified as a 'first' and has helped me find a few bargains when a long sought 'first' was not identified as such.  Before you challenge the used bookstore circuit [my favorites are in San Francisco, Berkeley, and the Los Angeles/Orange County area] or, braver yet, the yard sale/estate sale/swap meet/Goodwill circuit, make sure you have a copy of Mr. McBride's little book in your hip pocket.	2001-07-24
US	49131037	R29WXS8JGKWL4D	0899332854	344740694	Southern & Central California Atlas & Gazetteer: Detailed Topographic Maps, Back Roads, Outdoor Recreation, GPS Grids	Books	5	49	49	N	N	The 'Orange Map Book' Rocks	The Southern and Central California Atlas and Gazetteer by DeLorme always travels with me on my frequent road and rock-hounding trips in SoCal.  These maps are a cross between road maps and topo maps and may or may not be what you need.  If you want a standard road atlas, you will probably find the contour lines and dirt road details distracting.  For these folks I'd recommend Thomas Bro's California map book or a trip to AAA.  For folks who know what 7 1/2 minute quadrangle they'll be exploring, I suggest you visit the USGS map sales room at the Menlo Park office [it's self-serve...I always spend at least 3 or 4 hours pouring over the topos] and find the specific quadrangle you need.  I generally use this atlas on trips when I'm going to visit areas I've never been to before.  I need more details than the standard road atlas offers, but I usually don't buy the USGS topos for an area unless I intend to go back and spend some time at that location.  This is the atlas that guides me when I first visit a new rock-hounding site.  My friends and I refer to the atlas as the 'orange map book' since the old editions had an orange cover.  I'm on my third copy [but I keep my older trashed copies for all the annotations I've made in them].  As any experienced map user knows, no one set of maps will work for all purposes.  I recommend you add this atlas to your map reference library.	2001-07-23
US	49131037	R1QRSWLHU45J7X	0395150825	503862885	Paddle-to-the-Sea	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Paddle To The Store And Get A Copy Of This Book!	Paddle-To-The-Sea was one of the first long books my mother read to me [early 60's] and one of the first long books I read on my own.  Many elements make this a fantastic book for elementary school-age children:  it is an excellent geography lesson, teaching the reader about the Great Lakes region; it shows a character being creative and sending his creation out into the world without knowing if there will be a return for his actions; the payoff for the carver of Paddle-To-The-Sea comes only after a long period of time.  When I spent the summer of 1966 in Minnesota with my family, we visited many of the places in the book including Lake Superior.  I remember how much the book informed that summer.  Several years ago I revisited Lake Superior for the first time since '66 and the images of a small carved Native American in a canoe were still on my mind.  Give this book to a young person so they can take its literary journey and have it leave them with a lasting impression.	2001-07-23
US	49131037	R2C4TKO87S4M76	0440471478	998471830	The Pushcart War	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Subversive Reading For Elementary Kids	Shortly before I made the jump from young adult books to adult novels and college texts, I read The Pushcart War by Jean Merrill and I've never been the same since.  It was the late-60's/early-70's and I was attending elementary school in a suburb of Pittsburgh, PA.  The area was politically to the right of moderate.  This little volume was in the library of the school.  I've never been able to get the story out of my head.  People protesting perceived injustices.  People destroying property to make a point.  Sounds like monkeywrenching to me!  The story of the war between the pushcarts and the trucks in NY City is as relevant now as it was 30 years ago.  Lot's of elementary school kids around our fine nation would benefit from reading this fine book.  Donate a copy to your local school library.  Gift suggestion for a family that reads:  get the pre-teens in the family a copy of The Pushcart War and get the adults a copy of Ed Abbey's The Monkeywrench Gang.	2001-07-18
US	49131037	RB2RTMKNP0T2T	0525453369	999025302	Dinner at Magritte's	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This Is Not A Book Review	Dinner At Magritte's by Michael Garland is a cool book and will evoke questions from any curious youngster.  The story is simple: a bored young boy goes next door to his neighbors and the neighbors happen to be Mr. and Mrs. Rene Magritte.  Salvador Dali shows up and the four spend the day together culminating in dinner and charades. However, the world the story takes place in is the surreal world of Dali's and Magritte's paintings.  All the illustrations in the story except the first have surrealistic elements in them.  Even after the story has been read over and over again, the pictures themselves will continue to provoke the young reader's mind.  The book is a fun fantasy and a suprisingly good introduction to surrealism.  I had the advantage of having parents who took me to art museums in every city we ever visited and I know that this exposure to a wide variety of art styles helped with the development of this science teacher's mind.  Get this book and fire up your child's imagination.	2001-07-17
US	49131037	R2YEEED0XRIFDW	0690045697	536300174	Mojave	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Desert Is Not A Wasteland	Mojave by Diane Siebert with beautiful paintings by Wendell Minor is an excellent book. The pair have collaborated on several books including this wonderful expositon on the Mojave Desert. Siebert's words do an excellent job at describing the ecology of the Mojave from the desert's point of view. The young reader will meet the landscapes, the rocks, the animals, the plants, the weather and the sounds of the desert. The paintings, with touches of Georgia O'Keefe and Andrew Wyeth, are simple evocations of the beauty of the desert. I often escape into the Mojave to get focused and I know first hand that the desert is a living, breathing place and not a wasteland. This book is a wonderful way for a young person to introduce themselves to the Mojave.	2001-07-17
US	49131037	R1UJVJ0ULPK9O7	0689710518	618360909	Everybody Needs a Rock (An Aladdin Book)	Books	5	131	133	N	N	I'm Still Looking	Everybody Needs A Rock written by Byrd Baylor and illustrated by Peter Parnall is among my top ten favorite children's books and, if pressed to make a choice, I might say that it is my all-time favorite. My first exposure to the book was back in the 70's in one of the gift shops at one of the Smithsonian Museum branches in Washington, DC. I didn't buy it at the time, but its simple story and wonderful illustrations made an impact on me and stuck in my head. Here was a book about someone like me; here was a book about someone with a deep appreciation for rocks. The young lady in the book also had deeply felt personal values. The drawings reminded me of some of my own sketches and they said so much with so few lines and such a simple, earthy color scheme. I would forget the title and then rediscover the book in the 80's as I was finishing up my training as a geologist and then as a high school science teacher. Recently, my Mom gave me a blow-up of a picture taken of me in Badlands National Park in 1966. In the picture, I am 7 and I am sitting on the side of a rocky hill looking intently at a small rock. The picture reminds me of Rule Number 3 from the book:<br />Bend over. More. Even more. You may have to sit on the ground with your head almost touching the earth. You have to look a rock right in the eye.<br />If you know a child with a deeper than average appreciation of nature who is little bit misunderstood, give them a little validation by giving them a copy of this fantastic book. I'm still looking for the perfect rock, but, in my opinion, Everybody Needs A Rock is close to a perfect children's book.	2001-07-14
US	49131037	R2ZATSCNNP5BBM	0802787681	77228165	Galileo's Treasure Box	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Yes, Virginia, There Can Be A Second Life For A Great Book	Galileo's Treasure Box by Catherine Brighton [with an introduction by Dava Sobel of Galileo's Daughter and Longitude fame] is a great children's book that will hopefully enjoy a wider readership the second time around.  Originally titled Five Secrets In A Box [1987, E.P. Dutton], the book tells the story of Virginia, eldest daughter of Galileo Galilei, and her curiosity about some items her father kept in a gold box.  Through a simple text and exquisitely done illustrations, Brighton gives you a view of what it would have been like to be a curious kid in the house of a scientist during the time he made his great discoveries.  Virginia finds the lenses for a telescope, colored filters for viewing the sun, and a feather, all in a gold box on her dad's desk.  The book leaves Virginia asking why her dad would keep a feather and this will leave the door open for a young, curious reader to find out more.  I fell in love with the book when it originally came out and gave many copies as presents.  Later, when the original hardback was remaindered, I bought all the copies from several local bookstores and continued to give them as presents. If you know a young reader with readers for parents, give the child a copy of the delightful Galileo's Treasure Box by Catherine Brighton and give their folks a copy of the equally delightful Galileo's Daughter by Dava Sobel.  Hopefully many people, young and old, will discover the story of Virginia and Galileo Galilei.	2001-07-13
US	49131037	RSK970AP80JS4	0811810518	796550677	Mooses Come Walking	Books	5	7	7	N	N	When Arlo Comes Talking It's Always A Thrill	...Mooses Come Walking by Arlo Guthrie and illustrated by Alice M. Brock is one of those cool children's poems that sticks in your mind and can be recited over and over again without losing the good feeling it gives your head and your mouth. It is less forced than most of the Dr.Seuss poetry. And besides being a silly piece of Arlo poetry, the short, simple story has a message: be honored if wild animals come to see you and you get to see them. When you need a short, fun, bedtime or anytime book, read this one to your kids.	2001-07-12
US	49131037	RZ3SVCXID5NSH	0465078354	830433857	Three Roads To Quantum Gravity (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	38	45	N	N	Light Reading On A Heavy Subject	Three Roads To Quantum Gravity by Lee Smolin isn't the easiest highway to travel in the universe, but will be rewarding to anyone taking the journey.  Smolin, currently a professor at Penn State [my alma mater :)], writes simply, but smartly about the biggest piece of unfinished physics business leftover from the 20th Century, the resolution of the conflicts between our theory of the large, general relativity, and our theory of the small, quantum mechanics.  Smolin assumes an interested and educated reader and simplifies our trip by not doing long introductions to relativity and quantum mechanics.  After introducing the idea of a theory of quantum gravity, Smolin spends the rest of the book laying out the 'three roads' of the title, spending slightly more time on loop quantum gravity, the 'road' he's spent the most time on.  Although not as elegantly written or as detailed as Brian Greene's The Elegant Universe, Three Roads To Quantum Gravity compliments that earlier book by coming at 'theory of everything' territory from a different direction.  Since there is no AAA for physics, layfolks like myself should be glad that we have guides like Lee Smolin to direct us through the hidden regions of our universe.	2001-06-29
US	49131037	R1QCUGNBGW5DM9	0060294043	136371139	Rocks in His Head	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Triumph of the Amateur	An amateur is someone who does something for the love of it and the main character of Carol Otis Hurst's wonderful, beautiful Rocks in his Head is the epitome of an amateur.  In this well illustrated story, Ms. Hurst recounts the story of her father, a rockhound who was dissuaded from making a career of his first love. We follow him through his life from successful gas station owner to family man struggling to make ends meet during the Depression, all the while lovingly collecting, cataloguing, and caring for an ever expanding rock and mineral collection.  The payoff comes when her dad gets a job at the local science museum after the director notices his interest in minerals and then views his personal collection.  The father goes on to become the curator of the museum's mineral collection. James Stevenson's illustrations perfectly compliment this story of a triumphant amateur.  Children's books with true stories like this one usually have a summary page after the end of the story to give details left out of the main book. Unfortunately, details like the father being sent to college by the director and his eventual rise to director of the museum are left for the dust jacket, a part of a children's book that is often lost.  Other than this minor criticism, I think this is a 5-star book and wish there were many more like this.	2001-06-18
US	49131037	R39ZTZL9XLBWIY	0521790301	739478069	Beneath our Feet: The Rocks of Planet Earth	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Rocks Can Be Fun - And Beautiful.	Beneath Our Feet: The Rocks Of Planet Earth by Ron Vernon is a superb book that fills a gap that no one may have known existed.  The writing is simple, but accurate and eloquent.  The reader of this book will be able to jettison the 'all rocks look alike' feeling and go out into the world with enough observational smarts to be a budding petrologist.  The illustrating photographs are a good mixture of landscapes, hand specimen photos and photos of thin sections.  This book is a smart book for interested people without a background in petrology.  If the Roadside Guide books interest you, but seem a little overwhelming, try this book first.  The book fills a gap between collecting guides and college petrology books. The book will feel good in your hands and your brain when you read it, as well as look good on your coffee table.  This book is not just for the committed rockhound!	2001-05-27
US	49131037	RPYRZBMZ99680	0870714937	942943762	Living with Earthquakes in California: A Survivor's Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Can't Live With 'Em And Can't Live Without 'Em	Living With Earthquakes In California by Robert Yeats is an excellent book.  I bought the book on the strength of The Geology Of Earthquakes, a textbook Yeats co-authored, but I never expected a book that would rival Bruce Bolt's Earthquakes in my mind.  Even though the book is focused on California [Yeats also has one coming out on the Pacific Northwest], it is comprehensive enough to be an all purpose reference on earthquakes.  The book covers everything from the science of earthquakes to earthquake insurance.  People that find Bolt a little too difficult will find Yeats a little more comprehensible.  While the College Board mulls over whether to instate an AP Geology course, I'm already compiling my supplemental reading list for the class and this book will be at the top of the list.	2001-05-23
US	49131037	RSLJWLD9HMMG4	0521409497	260795030	Planet Earth: Cosmology, Geology, and the Evolution of Life and Environment	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Text For My Dream Earth Science Course.	At this point in history, I teach a college preparatory course in earth science to 9th graders in northern Orange County, California.  I don't have my MS [didn't finish my research or write my thesis], so I won't be teaching a basic earth science course at a junior college anytime soon.  And even if the College Board okays an AP Geology course, I doubt this book will wind up on the approved text list.  However, I can dream.  If I could teach the senior high school level or freshman junior college level earth science course of my dreams, Planet Earth by Cesare Emiliani would be my text.  This is a physical geology/earth science/earth system science book for smart students.  Emiliani pulls no punches, includes lots of equations, asks open-ended questions and shows an excellent wit.  All the pictures/drawings/diagrams are in black and white, so if you've got students who need lots of Kodachrome to excite them, this isn't the text for you.  It's a quirky, unique text.  It's not like any of the other basic earth science texts out there and bears the personal touches of its author.  I read it for fun and inspiration and would definitely recommend it for the interested nonscientist.  I know it's a paperback, but it is worth every penny you pay for it.  Get a copy for your reference shelf today!  And maybe you'll teach my dream course before I do.	2001-05-21
US	49131037	R7IP1GYOS0QCN	0231105851	896451425	The Monterey Formation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Biography of a Rock Formation	Even though I've been years out of grad school and spend most of my geoexperience teaching earth science to 9th graders, I had to get this book, knowing that a lot of it would be over the top of my rusty geobrain.  I live in SoCal and have experience with the Monterey Formation and other time contemporaneous formations.  This book is nothing less than the biography of a rock formation and the most thorough book I've seen written about one rock formation.  This book is not for the casual browser.  If you haven't had at least Geo 101, stay away.  My main complaint is with the price.  I know this book has a limited audience and the company is probably charging what the market will bear, but how about a bigger break on the paperback edition.  With lower prices on the paperbacks, maybe textbooks and technical books would have a wider audience.	2001-05-21
US	49131037	R1X21M6KQ9BJ09	0471133248	935107634	The Scientific Companion: Exploring the Physical World with Facts, Figures, and Formulas (Wiley Popular Scienc)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The SCIENCE TEACHER's Companion	The Scientific Companion by Cesare Emiliani is one of the most important reference works on the shelves in my high school science classroom.  I wore out my copy of the first edition and snapped up a copy of the second edition when it came out in 1995.  It is primarily a physical science reference, but I think it would prove useful as a reference for a life science teacher also.  It has a lot of those physical science facts and equations that you need, but don't want to memorize:  the mass of a proton and a neutron in atomic mass units, the masses and mass numbers of all the isotopes, the names of the quarks, conversion factors, a great periodic table, and lots of other basic stuff.  Each chapter is a concise refresher course on a basic physical science subject.  I think you'll find this book as indispensable as I do.	2001-05-21
US	49131037	R3FSHS8WGRVW0T	0878422927	984898503	Colorado Rockhounding: A Guide to Minerals, Gemstones, and Fossils (Rock Collecting)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Rocky Mountain HIGH!	Several years ago, I made a swing through Colorado and, as always, collected rocks and minerals [mainly for my class that I teach at a California high school].  This book was at my side and served me well, leading to many beautiful specimens [and two blown tires-it was an excellent trip].  I never failed to find a site and all sites were better than average quality.  Warning:  many of these sites are at high elevation and may involve a little hiking [I'm out of shape and stayed to the sites close to the roads and still had quite a haul].  As always, please collect respectfully and only in places where it is legal to collect.	2001-05-21
US	49131037	RGT02DW63BAS	0968750206	464023192	As It Is On Mars	Books	4	11	13	N	N	As It Is	I have agonized over this review for a week; I really, really want you to read this book, but I also want you to know that I didn't hide my mostly rational brain when I read the book.  I want you to know how much I enjoyed the book while at the same time I want you to know that I found a few flaws.  Caution:  If you are looking for pure adventure in your SF, don't read this review or this book because you'll be disappointed. This book is for thoughtful readers only.<br />As It Is On Mars is a close cousin to books like Stan Robinson's Mars Trilogy and Greg Bear's Moving Mars.  Thomas William Cronin combines suspenseful action and drama with thoughtful discussion of politics, economics, and philosophy.  Like those authors, Cronin has done his research well and will make you think you are actually on Mars.  Being a geologist, earth science teacher, and cartophile, I enjoy books more when they get their geography correct and Cronin nails the geography.  He even lets us in on the geographic feature naming process and does it well.  Being a hard core rationalist, I enjoyed the fact that Cronin fed my need to think about things until my brain hurts. He kept me up late several nights in a row.  The characters in the book are very real- heroic by necessity and flawed by nature - good folks to spend a few evenings with.  All of this makes me want to give the book an enthusiastic 5 stars.<br />On the other hand, the few flaws I found make me want to rate the book accurately and hence the 4 star rating [I would make it 4 and a fraction if (they) would allow such a rating].  My biggest problem is with the expository dialogue in the opening section.  There's too much of it and it sounds too rehearsed.  I like the way the Senate hearing sets up the story - this is clever and fresh.  But a Senate hearing doesn't usually sound like a stage play.  The dialogue in the opening section sounded a little too rehearsed - like a TV commercial where the characters are using expository dialogue to explain the product being advertised.  The dialogue continues in this vein on Mars, but is better incorporated into the story and has a much more natural feel.  My other problem - extremely minor - is with the number of typos in the book.  There are a few more typos than I usually find in the first hardback printing of a story.  Neither of these things should stop you from reading this great book.<br />Thomas William Cronin has given us an excellent addition to the ever increasing list of hard SF Mars fiction.  I'm glad there is going to be a sequel, but I wish (they) would put it out sooner...gue to explain the product being advertised.  The dialogue continues in this vein on Mars, but is better incorporated into the story and has a much more natural feel.  My other problem - extremely minor - is with the number of typos in the book.  There are a few more typos than I usually find in the first hardback printing of a story.  Neither of these things should stop you from reading this great book.<br />Thomas William Cronin has given us an excellent addition to the ever increasing list of hard SF Mars fiction.  I'm glad there is going to be a sequel, but I wish (they) would put it out sooner...	2001-05-20
US	49131037	R1PRBKDCO80XOM	0060199202	268898540	No Apparent Danger: The True Story of Volcanic Disaster at Galeras and Nevado del Ruiz	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Blame, blame, go away, come again some other day.	No Apparent Danger by Victoria Bruce is 2/3 to 3/4 a good book. Ms. Bruce certainly has the credentials [science writer for NASA, science reporter for the Portland Oregonian, and holder of a masters degree in geology (Geochemistry of hydrothermal alteration along a radial transect from the Summit of Mount Rainier, Washington)] and talents to tell a good geologic tale.  She makes few scientific flubs ('Earth's fiery core...was still holding the heat from the Earth's formation.'  The heat currently comes from ongoing radioactive decay.) and historic blunders (Which church blasted Alfred Wegener's ideas?) that make you gasp.  Her story of intrepid developing nation geologists is inspiring.  She did her homework on Nevado del Ruiz and Galeras and the reader feels as if they are there.  But in my opinion, two things seriously mar an otherwise good book:  1) her almost blind faith in the ideas and talents of Bernard Chouet, geophysicist with the USGS, and 2) her need to blame Stanley Williams for the death of 9 people.<br />The last line of Chapter 8 is where things seem to begin to go wrong. 'In fact, without the presence of the U.S. Geological Survey volcanologists, including Dave Harlow, John Ewert, and Andy Lockhart, and most important, Bernard Chouet, there wasn't anyone in Pasto with the clout or experience to stand up to [Stanley] Williams and make the call:  GALERAS IS DANGEROUS.  DO NOT GO INTO THE VOLCANO (italics in the original).'  Here Williams is prepared by Bruce to take the fall, and most important, Chouet is prepared by Bruce to take the credit for being the man with THE answer to predicting volcanic eruptions.  To accept all this, we must accept, among other things, that nobody at the Galeras conference was able to stand up to Williams (Marta Calvache, among others, ought to be insulted by this), that long period seismicity BY ITSELF is a reliable predictor of volcanic eruptions, that seismicity as predictor was well-known and internalized by Williams and others at the conference, that if the USGS people had been able to attend the conference the eruption would have been predicted and nobody would have died. [I would love to hear from Harlow and Lockhart, two of the heroes of Pinatubo, in detail concerning how they feel about the situation-I can't find anything written by them regarding this book.]  And my search of the available scientific literature does NOT give me the impression that Bernard Chouet has solved the problem of predicting volcanic eruptions.<br />Stanley Williams has taken some responsibility for the incident on Galeras, but Ms. Bruce wants us to BLAME him for it.  At a signing that I attended, she first referred to the others in the volcano that day as 'amateurs' and then, when questioned on the use of the word amateur, she changed it to 'inexperienced'. Yet Marta Calvache, a truly heroic person, and others were not inexperienced.  I think the situation is much more complicated than Ms. Bruce makes it out to be and I don't think anyone in this tragic situation deserves to be blamed.d others at the conference, that if the USGS people had been able to attend the conference the eruption would have been predicted and nobody would have died. [I would love to hear from Harlow and Lockhart, two of the heroes of Pinatubo, in detail concerning how they feel about the situation-I can't find anything written by them regarding this book.]  And my search of the available scientific literature does NOT give me the impression that Bernard Chouet has solved the problem of predicting volcanic eruptions.<br />Stanley Williams has taken some responsibility for the incident on Galeras, but Ms. Bruce wants us to BLAME him for it.  At a signing that I attended, she first referred to the others in the volcano that day as 'amateurs' and then, when questioned on the use of the word amateur, she changed it to 'inexperienced'. Yet Marta Calvache, a truly heroic person, and others were not inexperienced.  I think the situation is much more complicated than Ms. Bruce makes it out to be and I don't think anyone in this tragic situation deserves to be blamed.	2001-04-22
