US	49158238	R2AFZ72RYDW1SP	0961742631	109376070	The Less Expensive Spread: Delights & Dilemmas of a Weekend Cowboy	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Memories	My family lived in the house described in this book for several years before the Townsends moved in. I was a very small child, what memories this book brings back! I am giving it a 3 because I don't think it the writing quality was great ( a little to \\"cutsey\\") , but it does a very good job of capturing the life and people in the Santa Ynez Valley in that era ( the 60's ). I was there, and the \\"flavor\\" of the area is in this book. A good piece of history, with some funny moments. Should be interesting for those interested in Regional and era related writing.	2004-11-12
US	49158238	R3TKM07B2EM54N	1840234970	778222708	Wallace &  Gromit: The Whippet Vanishes (Wallace and Gromit)	Books	4	8	22	N	N	Where's the Whippet?	I'm a big Wallace and Gromit fan, and a Whippet fancier so I thought I'd love this book. Though it was a cute story, I'm afraid the Whippet in the story did not look ANYTHING like a real Whippet, I don't know what they were were thinking of- they could have made some effort to reproduce a realistic Whippet. The Whippet club was listing this book in their \\"books on Whippets\\" section- Whippet fanciers who buy this book because they think they are going to see a Whippet are going to be very disappointed. Fun story, so I'll give it 4 stars for being entertaining, but the Whippet looked kind of like a Dachshund with long legs!  Awful!  I think they could have tried a little harder.	2004-10-17
US	49158238	R4DGACJZNV2UK	0812535103	818804483	The Tree People	Books	4	1	9	N	N	An unprofessional oversite in an otherwise great book	First, I really enjoyed this story, it was unique, detailed, and complex, a one of a kind book to read in a few sittings. It had an important message and avoided black and white thinking. <br /> Part of the way through the book, a problem presented itself. I am a pro writer and editor, and very concerned about copyright. I have had battled with those who have illegally published my poems and songs and caused me all kinds of problems. My enjoyment of the book was seriously impaired when I saw, on page 47 , one of Shekinah Mountainwater's songs ( &quot;We are the flow, we are the ebb....') being sung by the &quot;evil witch&quot; character. The song is not traditional, not in the public domain, and is not attributed. With all the research the author did, she should have given Ms. Mountainwater credit for her song. Years ago I did copyright research for a book that later became &quot;Songs For Earthlings&quot; and we did not publish a single song or chant whole or in part without express permission of the author and went through a huge amounts of effort to obtain that permission. <br /> This kind of thing really bugs me. It is unprofessional. To have it sung by an evil character, when Ms. Mountainwater follows a positive path, is doubly irritating. Naomi Stokes is an intelligent writer who did tons of research, 30 seconds on a search engine would have turned up the author of this song, a little more research would have outlined up the life path and intent of the song's author. To not credit it and have it used by a negative character in a negative way is a slap in the face to the creator of this lovely chant. If you don't believe me, check out this website [...] and I believe Ms. Mountainwater has her own website. <br /> And yes, this kind of thing is a &quot;big deal&quot; to a writer who deserves not to have her song's intent misrepresented, and at least to be properly recognized as the author of the work. I'm afraid that I just did not enjoy an otherwise excellent story after seeing what was basically a rip-off, and it made me wonder if other things I was reading had been properly researched and attributed.	2004-08-03
US	49158238	R115PVF2Z5WYDW	0345249585	996031083	Dark Priestess	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Much better than expected	If you are a Sumerian/ Babylonian mythology fanatic like I am, or just like &quot;Pagan themed&quot; stories you may really enjoy this story of a Sumerian Healer/ Priestess in Babylon. It comes with *horrible* cover art with European looking figures ( a blondish woman and a guy that looks like Kirk Douglas wearing Roman looking clothes in a Roman looking arena ) and is aimed at a Romance audience, but it is filled with details of life at this time, with a glossary in the back, and the author really did some research. She make only a few mistakes, and I only caught them because I've done years of research on the rites and religious beliefs of the Babylonians. The average person will be more educated than misled. The love story is fairly minor in the theme of things, much more empathizes is put on the medical practices and beliefs, and the various political intrigues going on. Though a fairly thick book it was a quick, engrossing read, with actual quotes from Sumerian/ Babylonian poems and lore. Not perfect, but I enjoyed it and if this time period and these deities are as interesting to you as they are to me, give it a try! The medical information, including the religious aspects and ethics of healing, were really fascinating. The two Healer protagonists, a father and daughter, were thoroughly likable and believable, and the author tries to  avoid the black and white thinking and characterization that so plagues many historical novels.	2004-02-01
US	49158238	RUGD9AG0J6X7D	0892818298	615773241	Dog's Best Friend: Journey to the Roots of an Ancient Partnership	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful book	This amazing book will hold the attention of anyone who is interested in dogs, Anthropology, and the fascinating partnership between dogs and humans in many different cultures and climates. It shows how dogs have adapted to Geographical conditions, to cultural expectations, and how time and again dogs have literally kept humans alive in our struggle for survival. The relationship between dogs and humans, even working dogs like the greenland Huskies, are often cemented by affection on both sides, no matter if the dogs are not &quot;pets&quot;. The photos are absolutly beautiful, the descriptions fascinating, and even though the text was translated into English and suffers some awkwardness in word choice in a few places,  this does not detract from the book- I though it added to the uniqueness and charm.<BR>In this book, dogs act as &quot;guides&quot; so to speak in an exploration of many exotic locations, interesting people, and diverse lifestyles. All I can say is &quot;wow!- even people who are not &quot;dog people&quot; like this book if they are interested in travel and different cultures.	2003-10-18
US	49158238	R15LS1G7W858QF	0914124064	863740954	Mush: A Beginner's Manual of Sled Dog Training	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Great Primer	This was the first book I bought on the subject of sled dog training, back in the 70's, and it's still one of the best books I have read on the subject. It's kind of a &quot;textbook&quot; in style- Careful, detailed step by step instructions, diagrams, history, cautions, everything the begining musher needs to know. It also is very humane in tone, suggesting fair and kind treatment of dogs, completely blowing the stereotype that mushers are cruel whip welding fiends out of the water.<br />Ms. Levorson clearly states that abuse has NO place in training sled dogs, and in fact gives good reasons why fear trained dog are not only pitiful, but unreliable and hard to handle. I learned to train dogs from this book, and would recommend it to anyone who wants to do sledding or carting with dogs, either one dog or a whole team, whether they are interested in recreational mushing, work, or competition. Ms. Levorson also suggests adopting an older or retired trained sled dog to help train both you and your dogs, a suggestion that most professional mushers wholeheartedly support ( no, they *don't* kill them when they get older as the Animal Rights people suggest, I've been around too many mushing kennels to believe this nonsense- mushers WANT to find good homes for retired dogs, and you can get  great dog that way- I did ).<br />&quot;Mush&quot; is still one of my favorite sled dog books, I wouldn't be without it. I still go back and refer to it after all these years. I even remember making my first harness based on Ms. Levorson's very good patterns- it's easier than you would think!	2003-10-14
US	49158238	R3362A4TJLEE0P	0764552791	791039483	Siberian Huskies For Dummies	Books	3	34	38	N	N	Well intentioned	Well, this book is a good dog primer, with a lot of material specific to Siberians. I really liked the fact that the author covered both history and the wonderful sport of mushing. The training and medical info is also useful and well done if basic.<BR>The thing that annoyed me is that the author suggested that buying a puppy at a pet shop was OK, and also said something about Alaskan Huskies being awful pets that no one should adopt. As a person who has owned both Alaskans and Siberians, I found this comment untrue and annoying. Many Alaskans make wonderful pets, even retired sled dogs. In fact I recommend adopting a retired sled dog if you are interested in a recreational mushing- I did. It reminds me of what people used to say about Greyhounds 20 years ago, that they make awful pets. That is also untrue! Why put a stamp of approval on puppy mill pet shop Siberians, while keeping well cared for Alaskans from getting a chance at a good retirement home? Maybe she thought pet shops would not carry her book if she criticized pet shop puppies.<BR>However, if you look at the book as a lifeline for a first time owner surviving thier Siberian's puppyhood, the book can literally be a lifesaver. She says yes, the puppy will grow out of many behaviors- hang in there! Your Husky needs company and training, please provide these things! It's a working breed, please let it work if possible! In these areas, the author does a good job. I just didn't like the untrue comments on Alaskan Huskies ( many of which are part Siberian) and the wishy-washy acceptance of the puppy mill industry and buying a Siberian puppy that way. That's a BAD idea and really brought an otherwise good book way down in my eyes. Find a good breeder who cares about the dogs, either racing or show, or try a rescued Husky if you have the time to deal with an unknown background.	2003-10-14
US	49158238	R1DNHE92EB2ZRU	1879366754	190709604	Fourteen Things Witches Hope Parents Never Find Out	Books	1	25	35	N	N	A rehash of a painful hoax	This book is a shame and an embarrassment to any Christian who is trying to stand up for Truth. If you want to fight against witchcraft, use honesty not lies. For those who are knowledgeable about religious history, scams and their often horrendous aftermath, this book is a thinly disguised reworking of the anti Semitic hoax \\"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\\". If you look at both documents together, it is is painfully clear that the authors depended upon the gullibility and hysteria of the average reader, and assumed that most people would not be familiar with the Protocols.This shows contempt for the readers and also for Christ, who urged loving one's enemies and telling the truth.<BR>They just changed the name of the religion they were attacking, a few details and \\"updated\\" it. I had just read the Protocols  in a Religious History class, and when someone showed me this book a was astonished to see the similarity. If you don't believe me, read both documents. The Protocols of the Elders of Zion were used as an excuse to persecute and kill many Jews, it frightens me to think that this might be the intent here too. If so, the authors are inciting fear and hysteria- who might get hurt? Who can tell if someone is or is not a real witch? There are enough problems in the world without this unoriginal piece of Hate literature. <BR>Those who want to protect their children might start by protecting them from lies. The Protocols are available through libraries and I think Amazon sells a version- read and compare. The similarity is downright scary and is insulting to the honest Christians and anyone else for that matter. I guess the author thought changing a few details and updating would make it OK, but a sharp mind can see what is really going on- making money at the expense of others, and honesty.	2003-09-09
US	49158238	R3H5DQ06GVEGFH	0743417550	54833359	Silence and Noise: Growing Up Zen in America	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A very human struggle	This very readable, human book takes you into the world and mind of someone who has led an unusual life and destroys the myth that all Americans are somehow &quot;coming from the same place&quot; and can use the same experiences and references. Wrong! And this author is only one of many.<BR>Mr. Richmond serves as a translator, so to speak, a bridge between divergent world views and his descriptions of trying to understand &quot;Pop Culture&quot; ( and sometimes getting it wrong) are fascinating. He writes with humanity and humor, never taking the stand that his upbringing and ideals are &quot;better&quot; just because they are different.  This is a white, middle class individual who speaks English, one can only guess at how hard American culture ( and the idea we are a &quot;Christian Nation&quot;) is for some people coming from &quot;outside&quot; to grasp. I read it in one or two sittings, I found it touching and eye opening, with a refreshing simplicity.<BR>The message I got: No world view, or lifestyle, is ever perfect. There is good and bad in all lifestyles and religions, and a compassionate person needs to see that we are *not* all alike, not all coming from a common reference. As we stretch toward empathy, our  spirit grows. Mr. Richmond's struggle to unite &quot;silence&quot; with &quot;noise&quot; has given him a unique perspective, one I really enjoyed sharing.	2003-09-02
US	49158238	RKO4L8Y3DAR2O	0374377529	219125674	The Transformation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Culture clash	An interesting novel about the clash between Christian and Pagan ideologies and cultures, this time with a happy ending for once. Is it possible for people of very different backgrounds to \\"just get along\\"?-  this story suggests that they might, given the right personalities and circumstances and of course, the influence of love. The descriptions of Inuit and European Medieval life are well drawn, the settings are realistic, the main weakness is that the Inuit heroine is a bit too \\"empowered\\" to be completely believable- Inuit culture tends to be very male dominated, and in many cases women were not allowed to hunt.<BR>Still, I thoroughly enjoyed the story, and would recommend it to people interested in the historical clash between Christian and non Christian belief systems -this is kind of a historical \\"what if\\" that I found inspiring if not 100% accurate.	2003-08-26
US	49158238	R5RP7FJFR1YX2	0060122412	775413926	Toyon, a Dog of the North and His People	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another world brought vividly to life	This is a very touching book that I first read many years ago as a teenager, and reread ( and throughly enjoyed) later as an adult. It is the story of a Laika or Siberian hunting dog who becomes  a \\"good spirit\\"  while still alive, protecting his people and bringing them luck. It is a good glimpse into Siberian Native life during Czarist times, touching on the survival of Shamanic and Animistic practices of the mostly Christianized Natives, and is kind and respectful without being patronizing. \\"Toyon\\" explores the relationship these people have with Nature, each other, and the animals that share their lives, painting a vivid picture of life in the great Siberian forest.  You can practically feel the cold wind blowing outside and the warmth of the tents and the people who inhabit them.Toyon, the author tells us, was a real dog, and the story was based on true experiences the author went through as an exile in Siberia. Though it is fiction and probably geared towards young adults, it is a unique book and well worth reading for dog lovers and people interested in the indigenous people of the great North.<BR>To understand what kind of dog Toyon is ( kind of like a Husky but with a talent for hunting rather than pulling sleds)  and how much he was valued by his owners for their very survival, I would recommend reading \\"The Hunting Laikas of Russia\\", also available through Amazon.	2003-08-25
US	49158238	RSP014HOVX4N4	0743417550	54833359	Silence and Noise: Growing Up Zen in America	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A bridge between two worlds	This very readable, human book takes you into the world and mind of someone who has led an unusual life and destroys the myth that all Americans are somehow &quot;coming from the same place&quot; and can use the same experiences and references. Wrong! And this author is only one of many.<BR>Mr. Richmond serves as a translator, so to speak, a bridge between divergent world views and his descriptions of trying to understand &quot;pop culture&quot; ( and sometimes getting it wrong) are fascinating. He writes with humanity and humor, never taking the stand that his upbringing and ideals are &quot;better&quot; just because they are different.  This is a white, middle class individual who speaks English, one can only guess at how hard American culture ( and the idea we are a &quot;Christian Nation&quot;) is for some people coming from &quot;outside&quot; to grasp. I read it in one or two sittings, I found it touching and eye opening, with a refreshing simplicity.<BR>The message I got: No world view, or lifestyle, is ever perfect. There is good and bad in all lifestyles and religions, and a compassionate person needs to see that we are *not* all alike, not all coming from a common reference. Much damage has been done by this view. As we stretch toward empathy, our  spirit grows and we as a society grow. Mr. Richmond's struggle to unite &quot;silence&quot; with &quot;noise&quot; has given him a unique perspective, one I really enjoyed sharing.	2003-08-13
US	49158238	R1D215IT6UBTST	0876057539	46547182	The Koehler Method of Open Obedience for Ring, Home and Field,	Books	2	23	49	N	N	Not for every dog	To review this book, I must first tell a story. When I was a teenager ( awhile ago ) I enrolled with my Afghan mix in an obedience class. She was not a bad or unruly dog, but I thought a bit of obedience would not hurt. The class was &quot;Koehler based&quot; and the harshness of the methods turned a playful, happy dog into a terrified shut down dog. I also got to see dogs being choaked until they nearly passed out, &quot;hung&quot; ect.  What a great example to show to a kid. I used to get queasy before the class and my dog would hide. Looking back, I actually think one of the trainers might have been a genuine sadist, but what does a 16 year old know other than &quot;my dog is now much worse than she was&quot;. We were told to read several of Koehler's books which I did and I could see where the trainers were coming from. However, these methods *do not * work on all breeds! You can ruin a good dog! It took quite a while for my dog to recover from that Koehler based class.<BR>Anyone who has a Greyhound, Saluki or any other sighthound breed should not use Koehler's methods! I can't say this more strongly. There are other options. Experts in these sensative breeds now agree. I now have a Whippet very well trained using clicker training. I shudder when I think of my freaked out Afghan hiding when the choke chain and leash came out or freezing in terror. <BR>This book and Koehler's methods might work for &quot;hard&quot; stubborn dogs, or for police work, but be careful or the dog will end up worse, and you'll put more work into just bringing it back where it was. Proceed with caution!	2003-08-08
US	49158238	RMUI3CS1FEA8P	0684855305	509463424	Dogs: A Startling New Understanding of Canine Origin, Behavior & Evolution	Books	3	21	27	N	N	disappointing hypocrisy in a promising book	I am a former musher who is now disabled and has a service dog. When I was a musher, I was attacked for being &quot;cruel&quot; to let my dogs pull a sled, now I am attacked verbally by the public on the average of several times a month for being &quot;cruel&quot; to have a service dog to help me. When I read this book I was fairly astonished to see the author use exactly the same arguments used by the anti mushing agenda to attack the use of service dogs, while defending the use of sled dogs! This is illogical to the extreme, and real hypocrisy. Oddly, the anti service dog folks ( who are usually also rabidly anti mushing if you ask them) seem very ready to refer to this book to defend their &quot;service dogs are slaves&quot; point, but pointedly avoid any  of the book's many references to the fact ( and it is a fact ) that dogs like to pull sleds when treated kindly and fairly. Back when I was a musher, people also called my sled dogs &quot;slaves&quot;. As the old saying goes, what's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Just because Mr. Coppinger likes mushing and does not need a service dog seems to be his main motivation in this argument- not very scientific. Also, he implies ( as the anti mushing folks do about sled dogs) that service dogs are abused and trained cruelly. My sled dogs mostly trained themselves with a bit of guiding from me, and my service dog was trained using a clicker and treats- he's never worn a choke chain in his life. Many service dog training groups and schools use positive reinforcement. <BR>I got the strong impression, from other statements in the book ( such as the one about old people being a waste of time and money) that the author probably feels that people like me should just go away and die somewhere and that would be beter from an evolutionary standpoint. Maybe if he were to suffer a serious accident or illness, he might develop some compassion for other people less fortunate them himself. He certainly does not seem tobe able to see the contradiction in his own statements. What a disappointing book.	2003-07-21
US	49158238	RLJSGVPGIMI9K	0268015384	995300428	Precious Bane	Books	5	16	19	N	N	An amazing book	I inherited a 1920's hardcover copy of this book when my Grandmother died- it had always been one of her favorite books. When I read it, I begin to see why. My Grandmother was a person whose spirituality was unconventional, and this is a theme that strongly runs through this book. Traditional Christianity is there, but so is ecstatic spirituality inspired and manifested by nature. She sees God in nature. There are many many beautiful passages where the heroine is literally transported spiritually by the slight of flowers, or the songs of birds. Traditional beliefs and local magic are explored in detail and with an amazing lack of Judgement ( folklorists take note), and the Wizard, though he is not expected to go to Heaven, is a friend to a poor disabled girl and teaches her many good things. Her struggle for a &quot;normal&quot; life with her disability, a hare-lip, is very touching and inspiring. The author also deals with bigotry, persecution and rejection of those who are different, and the difficult question of what truly manefests Goodness- is Goodness something people truly strive for, or do most people simply go through life follow social pressures? Is the Wizard, who reached out to Prue and helped her with and open heart, a &quot;better&quot; person then the hard hearted comformity driven Churchgoes who would not even allow the Wizard's ( staunchly Christian) wife to enter their homes, condeming her to a lonely life?<BR>There is Magic here, and unearthly beauty seen though the eyes of a sensative young girl, and what must have been a very different exploration of true human nature in those rigid times. A thoughtful, highly recommended book.	2003-07-02
US	49158238	R362V6N4IWDYAC	0764508725	99217680	Breeding Dogs For Dummies	Books	5	31	36	N	N	There are many reason for wanting to know about breeding	My roomate recently rescued a pregant female dog and was literally unable to find a *single* book on dog reproduction in our strongly Animal Rights influenced community library so we bought this book. Might it ever occur to the writer of review 2 that there might be Humane reasons other than making money for wanting a book on dog breeding? Should the rescuers of pregnant animals be prevented from reading books that will tell them how to take care of their charges,  safely deliver a litter, and care for the puppies afterwards? There are a lot of abandoned pregnant dogs needing new homes and thank goodness we are still allowed access to materials ( though we had to pay, the library was loaded with \\"adopt a dog\\" material, which we had *already* done and not a single book on how to help our adopted pregnant dog! )<BR>This is a very good, detailed, informative book, and very HELPFUL. If we had listened to Reviewer 2's advice and not bought this book, we might have made mistakes in caring for our furry refugee, and what's humane about that? <BR>Censorship is an attempt to control access to information. Censorship can hurt.	2003-03-25
US	49158238	R11BGFKVZIZVAT	0765304341	834391313	From a Whisper to a Scream (Key Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	From a Whisper to a Scream	This is a really fascinating, can't-put-it-down thriller with the touches of magic you would expect from Charles De Lint. However, I must say there are several glaring errors in continuity that the editor seems to have missed- I won't go into it here but it should be fairly obvious to an attentive reader. I could see this happening in a first edition, but this is a reprint. This aside, I thoughly enjoyed the book and would recommend it to anyone trying to understand the struggle survivors of childhood abuse undergo as they try to let go of the past. Though grim, it is also empowering and hopeful, and a very well told story.	2003-03-15
US	49158238	R1K68PHERSZI7W	0385008120	388405160	How to make your wife your mistress	Books	1	2	8	N	N	A Dreadful book	My abusive ex husband gave me this little nightmare in order to encourage me to be more vapid and submissive for him ( hint.. though the title suggests it, this book is *not* pro-woman ). Amoung other things, it suggests that husbands keep their wives on a \\"choke chain\\" and that having a career is only something woman with poor self esteem do, because they feel \\"threatened\\" by Barbie Dolls like Ms. Bird. Lying is encouraged, and negotating is out. Honesty does not figure in Ms. Bird's world, intelligent woman are held in contempt. Kind men are \\"weak\\".<BR>This horrible book ended up in trash can, and after my ex did other various awful, illegal things to others smaller and weaker than himself I will not get into here, we divorced. <BR>Whenever I see this book, I am reminded of the destructive mind set of the man who wants a woman to act like this, and wonder why another woman would encourage it.	2003-03-15
US	49158238	R9WIQQ6Z2AHTV	1564146227	268247239	When Someone You Love is Wiccan	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A great tool for communication	I have been Wiccan for 18 years, and after awhile you get tired of the endless cycle of explaining what you believe, what you do not believe, and dealing with the inevitable arguments and debates. During a period of my life when I simply did not have the time or energy to explain the same thing over and over again, I discovered this book. It is a very straightforward, easy to understand introduction of Wicca and Paganism that covers most of the bases and challenges the reader to think as well as listen. My only criticism might be that it is a little  simplistic, but the fact is that the subject is so complex it is necessary to simplify or else you would end up writing a series of books, not just one! So far, all the non Pagan People I have lent the book to have liked it and were able to come to a greater understanding of Pagan beliefs. The author's easygoing tone is non threatening and promotes respect for all faiths.	2003-03-04
US	49158238	R1NE1HDV7RA81M	0892815620	641864165	The Yoni: Sacred Symbol of Female Creative Power	Books	4	24	28	N	N	An uplifting book with an important messege	I think this book and its message are very, very valuable both from a psychological/ spiritual AND a purely health standpoint. The pictures are beautiful, the text uplifting. It's not silly, insulting or ridiculous. The fact is in the past ( and even today) many woman let serious health issues go unchecked and untreated because they can't deal with their own genitals until a problem has already taken root. Woman have *died* because they were to ashamed to look \\"down there\\" or describe symptoms to a medical practitioner. A positive attitude toward the Yoni is not only spiritually uplifting, it can be lifesaving! <BR>I am dismayed to read woman reviewers describe their own vaginas as smelly and dirty. I have a friend who is an OB /GYN nurse, and she says that while a little natural odor is normal , an unpleasant odor is often the sign of an infection, poor hygiene or a more serious underlying medical problem. The \\"fishy\\" odor that many people attribute to woman is often a symptom of a bacterial infection called Gardnerella ( sp?). Or- men take notice- post sex it can be the result of proteins ( semen ) breaking down in the acidic environment of the vagina. Women, If you truly smell bad on an ongoing basis, go see a doctor! Also, woman often assume that men think they smell bad because this is the way they were taught. My husband sent me straight on that one! Many men enjoy the way a clean healthy woman smells.<BR>And someone farther down on the list said that it's a medical fact that the vagina and female genitals in general are dirty and unsanitary. This is *not* a medical fact. One of the dirtiest area of the human body is the mouth, and few people are horrified of kissing. When someone who has has a joint replacement or a heart condition goes in for dental work or certain types of rectal exams/ surgeries, they often must \\"pre medicate\\" with antibiotics because there's so much bacteria in these two areas and it can get into the bloodstream and cause serious problems. Heart and joint replacement patients do *not* have to pre medicate before a pelvic exam or surgery in the female genital area. Check with a doctor or nurse! If it were really so dirty, they would!<BR>I lent this book to so many people over the years that it has finally disappeared. I guess I should buy another copy!	2003-02-24
US	49158238	R1ZRYFV2CAUGN0	0679758526	63274353	This Cold Heaven: Seven Seasons in Greenland	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This Cold Heaven	I loved this book! I had to make myself put it down in order to eat/sleep, ect. As a dog lover, I was especially touched by the author's description of the REAL relationship between the Inuit hunters and their dogs- mutual respect, patience and genuine love in many cases. Yes, it's a hard life and the dogs aren't pets, they work hard and sometimes get hurt or killed in the harsh climate, but the only people in the book who were described as intentionally abusing dogs were a party of European tourists. The Inuit hunters who came upon this disgusting scene winced and looked disgusted saying &quot;you train them with your voice, not by beating them&quot; or words to that effect. <BR>I was impressed with the patience, honesty, bravery and efficency of these isolated people, who treated Ms. Ehrlich with kindness and eventually a grudging respect even though they were clearly not always happy to have her along and in the way.The Inuit may not be sentimental about things, but they are Real, and Real means a lot in this artificial world.	2003-02-14
US	49158238	RXNHOE4Q06O05	0385320590	652824106	Tikvah Means Hope	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tikva Means Hope	I was very impressed that the author was able to take a subject that was terrifying to adults and retell it for children in a way that was gripping and real, but not sensationalistic or horrific.<BR>The illustrations and story moved me to tears.	2003-02-11
US	49158238	R21TDXEBVGJA74	0312860137	420724176	The Black Cat	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Black Cat	A very readable story with vivid characters which manages to be both disturbing and entertaining in a quirky way. What I liked about it was the psychological complexity- people have both good and bad qualities in them ( even the protagonists) and nothing is as black or white as it seems. I was very touched by the description of the persecution of a young Wiccan woman by a town of basically good people who just don't understand- this subject is *real* and I personally know people who have been there. Very few authors ( Richard Grant is the only other one I can think of in his \\"Land of Winter\\" ) have been willing to tackle this controversial subject. The young Wiccan girl is a *person* rather than a \\"comic book character\\" like many Wiccans in books, a human being with both faults and good qualities, not a misunderstood angel or a veiled demon. As a Wiccan teacher and Elder who has been in the position of screening potential students, I have seen some of the issues ( abuse, for example ) that sometimes push people onto Our Path ( though many abused people become Born Again Christians, too- ). Mr. Poe does an excellent job with both the persecution issues and the complexities and motivations that make up even \\"simple small town people\\", who are often portrayed as one dimensional, cookie cutter characters, especially Southerners. Though it can not be described as a \\"Wicca positive\\" book, it is not negitive either- is a realistic look at some of the more wounded people who find themselves on our Path, and the abominable way they can be treated by \\"good folks\\" who need to grow and learn a little compassion and tolerance. I would recommend it to any Wiccan who plans to go into teaching- you'll eventually meet someone like Julie. <BR>A very good effort at a difficult subject, and a great story too!	2003-02-11
US	49158238	RSHTO4CDMHHQR	0380002485	407783759	Blackbriar	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Blackbriar	I first read this book while I was in Junior High ( many years ago) and it's still on my bookshelf. I drag it out and reread it every so often because it's a fascinating, well written, really captivating story with a lot of historical detail and well developed charactors. It's one of those books you can read in one or two sittings because you are so drawn in and involved.<BR>The only thing I did not like was the author's negitive portrayal of British Withchcraft, I've met British Witches and know they are not the evil cat sacrificing folks depicted in the story. But I will forgive the author for this blunder, since there is so much ignorance out there and he was working with the limited information available at the time the book was written.<BR>Overall, it was a great read and a great story.When I was a kid, I was just cativated by the description of an ancient old house way out in the country that you had to reach by land rover, still available in our modern world. It was like a trip into another world.	2003-02-07
US	49158238	R3DF84CZTFFNS3	0553581279	51302526	The Silver Metal Lover	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Silver Metal Lover	I read this book while I was in the hospital recovering from a serious accident. In spite of all the pain, confusion and worry, I was completely entranced and transported, inspired and deeply touched. <BR>This is a wonderfully unique book, really one of a kind, and reading it truly made me feel as if I had been to another world and back in spite of my discomfort. It takes a VERY good author to hold the attention of a person with a broken leg ! There is sadness and cruelty, but also hope, kindness, beauty and a kind of desperate longing to live life, a real life fully in the midst of all the pollution and artificiality of the strange world Ms. Lee has created. And there is love and deep personal transformation sincerely and believably depicted. This book left me absolutely haunted and very hopeful at a difficult time. Highly recommended!	2003-02-05
US	49158238	RIRLPP3OLPH57	0312266626	810049197	The Dog Who Spoke with Gods	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Dog Who Spoke With Gods	This is an amazing book which manages to deal with the Animal Rights issue in one of the most balanced treatments I have ever seen, as well as being a one of those stories you can barely put down till it is finished! As a disabled person with a much loved Assistance Dog, I have been verbally attacked on the street by misguided animal Right activists who called my Best Friend a \\"slave\\" because he wears a harness. I have also seen ( as in assistant in a Vet clinic that took charity cases ) many examples of abuse and neglect of \\"pet\\" dogs. Things are not just black and white, and the author dealt with this with great sensitivity and caution. I also liked the mythic and spiritual aspects of the story. Parts are painful, but it is a one of a kind, poweful story that should not be missed by dog lovers with a mystical bent. By the way, you find yourself suspending belief about a talking dog really fast, it is handled so well.	2003-01-27
US	49158238	R3W0CD4WV6UDNY	0553271652	136354513	Neon Lotus	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Neon Lotus	This is a wonderfully unique, readable book combining Buddhism, Magic/ Western Mysticism, and technology in a workable and enjoyable blend. Buddhists, Pagans, and &quot;techies&quot; I have reccomended this book to have all liked it.	2003-01-27
US	49158238	R3EEK259G2KVBE	1584451238	795029365	The Rainbow Cadenza	Books	2	3	15	N	N	The Rainbow Cadenza	Yes, its an interesting, creative, thought provoking book. The problem is that it portrays the Wiccan religion as an authoritarian means of oppression, which is ridiculous to the point I would have laughed out loud if I had not been so disgusted. Ive been a Wiccan for 18+ years, and I have found Wiccans to be the most independent people I have ever met, who often have a real suspicion of authority, coercion and control. The idea of Wicca as an organized sanctioned state religion is also silly, as Wiccans tend to prefer small autonomous groups - just getting a couple of these groups to cooperate for a large festival can sometimes be a daunting task because of the level of independence displayed- think of herding cats. Also, sex in the Wiccan view is sacred and should NEVER be forced or coerced.  Forced sex is *obscene* and an insult to the Goddess. I dont care what they did in the ( Patriarchal ) ancient world, modern Wiccans would find the idea of forced prostitution to be appalling. I was present at a gathering where a newcomer voiced a similar view in a discussion, and he was shunned for the rest of the gathering. Wiccans revere females, I cannot concieve of a supposedly Wiccan state religion limited the number of female births and oppressing those who are born!<BR>Im sorry an otherwise thoughtful and well written book was ruined by this basic lack of understanding of a minority religion- and the author claims to have talked to Witches? Whoever he talked to is probably foaming at the mouth at having their teachings so distorted.	2002-10-04
