US	49163253	R2TN67AS1KM9	0140185429	705206507	Loser Takes All (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Quick and Fun	This slight Graham Greene novel is really more of a long short story--I read virtually the entire thing on a two-hour flight to New York City. But Greene is still able to infuse his story and characters with the moral significance that infuses all of his work. What happens in this novel really seems to *matter* in a way that it wouldn't in the hands of another author. Greene was great at making the most innocuous of situations feel full of portent; it's as if the character's moral fate will be decide once and for all by whether or not they take that last trip to the gaming table, or have that last drink, or go through with that meaningless one-night stand. It's this quality of Greene's that make his \\"entertainments\\" so satifsying to literature lovers: they have all of the attributes of the most thrilling page-turner, but the reader doesn't have to feel like he needs to sacrifice a love for style and substance in order to enjoy it. <br /> <br />Not one of Greene's most profound works, but very entertaining.	2005-06-06
US	49163253	R38ZY09GDQEE4D	0192801694	283328506	The Secret Agent (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	26	31	N	N	The First Political Thriller	Joseph Conrad's novel \\"The Secret Agent\\" is referred to in many places as the prototype of today's political and espionage thrillers. Except that it's not really much of a political thriller at all. The agent of the title, Mr. Verloc, has grown complacent in his role as an informant to a foreign embassy in London and is pressured by his superiors into pulling off a shocking act of terrorism in order to prove his worth to his colleagues. The novel is mostly about the domestic repercussions that occur when things go badly wrong.<br /><br />This novel effectively toys with the reader's expectations, but it does so in a somewhat dubious way. Conrad introduces several characters and sets the stage for what appears to be a thriller with political overtones: several people have a vested interest (personally or politically) in the outcome of Mr. Verloc's actions. However, none of these characters ends up being of any importance, and nearly all of them drop out of the narrative altogether. The novel ends up being much more about Mrs. Verloc than it does about anyone else (including Mr. Verloc). This effectively pulls the rug out from under the reader's feet, but I would have received more satisfaction if Conrad had been able to keep suspense alive while still juggling a larger cast of characters. Maybe I should have been ready for this narrative sleight of hand, given the novel's subtitle, \\"A Simple Tale,\\" but as it was the novel didn't take focus until it was 3/4 over and by that time too late for me to shift my sympathies.<br /><br />What the novel does well, however, is to give its reader a deliciously tangible sense of the seedy underworld at play in late 19th-century London. Conrad personifies the mist, funk and squalor of London until the city itself nearly becomes a character in the action. Also, for anyone who maybe knows Conrad for being an obtuse, thick writer (especially if your previous knowledge of him comes from reading \\"Heart of Darkness\\" and \\"Lord Jim\\"), \\"TheSecret Agent\\" is refreshingly straight forward.	2005-06-06
US	49163253	RLP5HYOKM18MT	1564781313	401276288	Point Counter Point (British Literature)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Dazzling and Vaguely Unsettling	Hearken back those of you who remember introductory literature classes and lectures on the difference between \\"story\\" and \\"plot.\\" \\"Point Counter Point is rather short on story, but it's absolutely dripping in plot. Not much happens that could be easily summarized on a book cover, but so much happens in the way of character development and psychological insight that the results are nearly mind-boggling. How Huxley could develop such a large cast of characters so thoroughly is one of the greatest testaments I can make to his ability as an artist, and for those who love to sink their teeth into complex characterizations and psychological motivations, this book will have you frothing at the mouth. <br /> <br />One should read \\"Point Counter Point\\" not for the destination, but for the journey. The ending is eerily and disquietingly ambiguous; Huxley is not as interested in passing judgements on his characters as he is in illustrating how complicated the act of living is and how there is likely no one approach to life that will adequately prepare one for its tragedies and twists of fate. A somewhat cynical point of view perhaps, and certainly not comforting to those in search of the big answers to life's big questions, but very realistic. There's hardly a page of this novel that didn't strike a chord with me and put perfectly into words either an idea I have myself or a character trait that I can instantly recognize in someone else.  <br /> <br />Though published nearly 80 years ago, this novel feels like it could have been written yesterday (some period differences aside, of course) so relevant do these characters' conflicts, escapades, fears and desires seem. Huxley's book is a reminder that 80 years isn't all that long in the course of human events, nor really is 200, 300 or 400 years. Despite superficial advancements in technology and science, the fundamental questions of being have been mankind's greatest preoccupation for centuries and will likely go on being so.  <br /> <br />This is a marvelous novel and perfect for a book club or literature class, as the food for debate it offers are virtually endless. <br /> <br />	2005-05-10
US	49163253	RF0FBFUQIAXL	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Far from Profound, but Great Fun	Many people who haven't yet discovered Douglas Adams' science-fiction comedy series are probably feverishly racing to finish this first novel in time for the movie's opening (as I did). This book has been on my reading list for a long time, and I'm grateful to the movie for giving me a kick in the butt and finally getting me to sit down and read it (which I did in about three days---it's a remarkably fast read). I can't imagine how they're going to adapt it to the screen, as the book is a goofy, surrealist jokefest that never once takes itself at all seriously. You can tell Douglas Adams was making things up as he went along, not pausing along the way to make sure anything makes a whole lot of sense. The story--or at least the book's main premise--is probably familiar to anyone who's reading this comment, so I won't bother with a summary (which I'm not sure I could do anyway). If you sat Woody Allen down and asked him to write a season of Dr. Who, \\"Hitchhiker\\" is what you'd get. I really enjoyed it without really loving it. I'll probably go on to read the other stories, but these books serve the same purpose for me as do P.G. Wodehouse's \\"Jeeves\\" series. They're the literary equivalent of junk food---they satisy a craving, but leave me wanting to move on to something a little more substantial.	2005-04-27
US	49163253	R1XG8ZONQJLK11	0226677141	78919434	A Dance to the Music of Time: First Movement	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Must Be Read Completely to Fully Appreciate	Don't make the mistake and think that you can read excerpts of Anthony Powell's epic and truly appreciate his vision. The entire novel (which consists of twelve separately titled novels) must be read in order and through to completion. The last two pages of the last novel provide a breathtaking conclusion that satisfactorily ties together everything that preceded it. Until then, I found the individual novels moderately entertaining; I loved them at first, but do admit that Powell's story gets tedious by the time you hit the 8th or 9th entry in the series. Overall, this book is much easier to admire as a whole than it is as individual parts.	2005-04-26
US	49163253	RPM7SOQPA3P4Z	0140185305	857208	The Man Within (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fantastically Entertaining	I'm usually leery of favorite authors' first and last books. They never seem to be up to the standard of the books that come between. In Graham Greene's case, his last novel, \\"The Captain and the Enemy,\\" certainly holds true to that rule of thumb. However, \\"The Man Within,\\" his first, holds its own with any of Greene's fabulous later novels. This has all of the elements that would later become Greene trademarks: the conflicted and flawed male protagonist, the murky mood of intrigue and corruption, the delightful local flavor. You can just see Graham Greene novels filmed in crisp black and white (as many of them were). \\"The Man Within\\" is an excellent intro to Greene's work for a Greene neophyte and a welcome treat for die-hard fans. <br /> <br />	2005-04-26
US	49163253	RZ1D4BXH7YMF3	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Have a Great Time with This One	Can I just say ---- Wow!  &quot;The Dante Club&quot; is a perfect summer read for literature lovers: it's light enough to allow for rabid page turning but with more substance and intelligence than the standard best seller. The post-Civil War world of 1865 Boston is brought to vivid life, the characters are a delight, and you can just tell that Pearl is having great fun putting his plot together. The novel takes itself seriously enough to keep us engrossed but not so seriously that it forgets to be a joy.<br />If you liked &quot;The Alienist,&quot; you'll probably like &quot;The Dante Club.&quot; And no worries if you lack knowledge about Dante or his &quot;Divine Comedy.&quot; I'd never read it, but Pearl does a fine job of making his novel accessible to Dante fans as well as novices.<br />This is one of those books that I actually forced myself to stop reading at times because I didn't want to finish it too quickly.  As it is, I am sad that it's over.<br />Grade: A+	2004-06-23
US	49163253	RTKRT0SVNYNXL	0141186739	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	2	11	28	N	N	When a Lot Amounts to Very Little....	I spent about a month and a half slogging my way through James T. Farrell's magnum opus, and the most pressing question I was left with after finishing was this: What in the world did Farrell find interesting enough about this protagonist to warrant an entire trilogy devoted to him?  <br />Studs Lonigan is born into a fairly well-to-do Irish Catholic family in Chicago and spends the majority of his formative years trying to convince himself that he's the toughest kid on the block and will amount to something big before his time on Earth is through. He has a cockeyed impression of what it is that makes a man a man and so, scene after scene, we see him beating up people, sleeping around, contracting venereal diseases, getting so shnookered that he has to be dumped off at home by friends and generally making an ass of himself. In between scenes like these, we are exposed to the strict Catholic rhetoric pounded into the heads of the neighborhood youth and understand that Studs' behavior leaves him with extreme feelings of guilt, though that guilt doesn't cause him to act differently.<br />By the trilogy's end, Studs has decided that maybe he should straighten out and take life more seriously, but of course by then his self-destructiveness has taken its toll and Studs' turn around comes as too little too late.<br />Can someone tell me why the hell I should care about any of the above?  Studs is a jerk; he's rarely anything else.  He spends most of his time feeling sorry for himself and whining about all the bad breaks that befall him, when obviously he has dug his own hole and must suffer the consequences. I suppose that's Farrell's point; I think he was trying to make a comment about down-trodden groups having to help themselves before anyone else will help them. But an entire novel built around someone who has no self-control and then spends countless scenes whining about why he feels so lousy, or is broke, or doesn't have a girlfriend, is doomed to be tedious.<br />Farrell's writing style doesn't help matters. His prose is SO repetitive. This is especially apparent in his dialogue, where characters in conversation will literally say the same thing over and over, turning what should be a half-page exchange into three and four pages of tediousness. <br />Only occassionally does this book become interesting. Some of the details surrounding the Depression and especially the Irish attitudes toward Communism are particularly engaging. Otherwise, there wasn't much that kept my interest.<br />I have a feeling Farrell was frustrated with the isolated, extremely religious community the Irish relegated themselves to in the first third of the 20th century and blames that isolation for their lack of progress. They put all of their faith in God and refuse to do anything to help themselves. They complain about how the country takes advantage of the working man, but they refuse to attempt an understanding of Communist doctrine because they've been told by priests that Communists want anarchy and are anti-God and country. They even keep distant from university educations because the priests are afraid people will begin to get ideas of their own and realize that their religious beliefs are built on nothing but sand. I guess Studs is meant to be a sort of illustration of this environment in general, but Farrell really misses the opportunity to drive his points home.	2004-06-10
US	49163253	R2347AHDIHNZ1T	0393963144	596716152	The Ambassadors (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	2	16	29	N	N	At Least It's Better Than &quot;The Wings of the Dove&quot;	There, is that praise faint enough for you?  Yes, I found &quot;The Ambassadors&quot; a great deal more readable than James' novel of the year before, but that's not to say I have any great love for this one.  Henry James seriously needed to write about something other than European sophistication contrasted with American naivety and crudity (how many times can you tell the same story?), but this novel does tackle that theme about as well as James was ever going to.  <br />I have nothing against people who like James' writing; each to his own.  But I don't know that I've ever read an author whose style has annoyed me more.  People praise James for his pychological complexity and his mastery of subtext.  His novels certainly are full of subtext; it's practically overflowing the pages.  But a novel that's all subtext is no better than one that wears its agenda on its sleeve.  I understand the influence James had on literature.  He acted as a kind of bridge between the moral simplicity of the Victorians and the more psychologically ambiguous writing of the Modernists.  But as with many literary figureheads, knowing and understanding his influence does not necessarily make him enjoybable to read.	2004-04-29
US	49163253	RB02WP4Q2JQ2A	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Dreadful Schlock	This novel gets 2 stars instead of 1 out of me only because I thought the beginning pages displayed a certain satisfying suspense, a feeling of impending dread, and I liked the way King captured the atmosphere of suburban American.  It doesn't take long for the book to deteriorate though, and it gets bad.  I mean, really, REALLY bad.  I just came back to reading King after being away from him for a long time, and if &quot;The Regulators&quot; is any indication of the stuff he's churning out now, I think I'll go back to staying away.<br />You might be interested in checking out the sister book to this, &quot;Desperation.&quot; It's better by far, but it's still a much flabbier, more undisciplined book than I remember King producing in the past.	2004-04-09
US	49163253	R3K3HPEPSMAX4Z	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Revisiting King	When I was in high school, I went through a major Stephen King phase.  He was the only author I would read, and I didn't stop until I'd read every thing he wrote (up to &quot;The Green Mile&quot;). That was a few years ago, and recently I was in the mood to come back to him and do some catch up with the things he's written since.  I read &quot;Desperation&quot; and I'm currently in the middle of its sister book &quot;The Regulators,&quot; and while I enjoyed &quot;Desperation,&quot; I do have to admit that I've outgrown King somewhat.  I don't know if he's gotten worse as a writer, or whether he's always written like this and I'm just remembering him from a different perspective, but his writing is just so SLOPPY.  I feel like there's no tightness to it at all; it's like a really fatty piece of meat---there are good parts, but you have to cut around all of the inedible portions to get to them.  <br />He builds some nice effective creepy dread in the novel's first half, but by the time it's over, it's not really scary anymore.  I admit that I was pretty hooked for the whole thing and did my share of page turning, but the whole time I was reading I was aware that I was reading schlock well below my reading level, and King's writing never affected me like that before.  I know that sounds pompous, and I really don't mean it to, but it's just the honest truth.  He really belongs in the same class as John Grisham, except he's got more imagination in his thumbnail than Grisham has in his entire body.  After I finish &quot;The Regulators&quot; I think my Stephen King craving will be satisfied for some time to come.	2004-04-05
US	49163253	R164XCFXUKTPG0	0812967194	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	1	23	48	N	N	Oh Henry James, Why Did You Hate Your Readers So?	Some authors (let's say William Faulkner, for example) are able to challenge their readers without alienating them. While reading Faulkner, I know I am in the hands of a master who is not going to let me flounder.  He's passionate about the story he wants to tell, and he wants me to get as much from it as he himself does.<br />Then there are the other authors (like....oh, I don't know....Henry James perhaps) who get so involved in the story they are telling that they forget they are trying to tell it to somebody.  What us unlucky readers get, as a result, is a thick, ponderous, obtuse work of fiction that will likely mean much more to its author than to anybody else.<br />What is &quot;The Wings of the Dove&quot; about, you ask?  I don't really know.  It has something to do with two forbidden lovers plotting to abscond with the fortune of an ailing American heiress, and at a higher level it's about American innocence being corrupted by European cynicism. But it doesn't much matter what the novel is about, because all ideas and developments are buried underneath a mountain of suffocating prose that foils all attempts at comprehension.<br />I don't know how James got the reputation for being a poetic, beautiful writer.  Rarely have I run into writing more clunky in nature, every sentence chopped into pieces with the shrapnel of commas and dependent clauses. This novel feels like a rough draft; it's as if James first got all of his ideas down on paper no matter how awkwardly, but then forgot to go back and clean it up. I don't really care for Hemingway much either, but I'm craving his pointed, crystalline prose just to wash the taste of James from my mouth.	2004-03-10
US	49163253	R2302ZQSR5B1GV	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Forster's Masterpiece a Timeless Classic	Sadly, &quot;A Passage to India&quot; will probably never seem dated, because the racial and religious problems that plagued India nearly a century ago continue to do so today. That's a testament, though, to just how compelling E.M. Forster's novel was and is.<br />Two English ladies, one young and strong willed and the other her elderly chaperone, visit India with the intent of fully immersing themselves in Indian culture--unlike their compatriots, who segregate themselves from the Indians and relegate them to little more than a slave class. However, during a cave exploration, something inexplicable happens to both of them and they find themselves unhinged from the experience.  What follows is a sad story about the clash of two cultures that form immediate and unshakable assumptions about each other.<br />Forster has been criticized for being somewhat one-sided in his portrayal of the English-Indian conflict, painting the English as belligerent, pompous bullies and the Indians as lovable and continuously wronged. I suppose that criticism is valid to a reader looking for clinical fairness, but as Forster himself is recorded as saying, he was sick of fairness at the time he wrote this novel and composed his story instead from the heart. I can completely understand this sentiment.  In any conflict, when one side is so decidedly dominant and thus has all the advantages, fairness seems like an almost irrelevant concept.  What Forster has done here is fashioned a compelling story populated by perhaps some of the most psychologically complex characters ever put to the page.<br />Which is both good and bad.  On the one hand, fully trying to understand the inner workings of these characters' minds makes for a very interactive reading session.  On the other, Forster makes his characters almost TOO realistically complex, so that I feel that I can't fully understand any of them.  Whether intentional on Forster's part or not, this pretty much works overall for the novel, sinceit is about people who can't fully understand one another.  But I would be lying if I didn't say that it also makes the novel at times somewhat frustrating, and ever so slightly dry.<br />Don't let this criticism overshadow the praise I have for this novel, however.  It's a towering achievement of 20th Century literature and deserves the esteem it has won from the literary community.	2004-02-18
US	49163253	R1RYM781F7UY3S	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Mid-Life Crisis Comedy	Saul Bellow seems to me to be one of those writers who is only fully appreciated by readers who have reached a certain age and thus have a certain amount of life experience under their belts.  Before &quot;Henderson the Rain King,&quot; the only other Bellow I'd read was &quot;Seize the Day,&quot; and I read that one in high school.  The two books are similar in that they both have middle-aged male protagonists who are at some point of crisis in their lives.  &quot;Seize the Day&quot; was completely lost on me, but I wonder if I read it now whether I might find more meaning in it.<br />I've still got a ways to go before I become middle-aged myself, but nevertheless, there's a lot I related to in the character of Eugene Henderson.  Affluent, arrogant and pig-headed, Henderson seems like the kind of man who should want for nothing, since he's rich enough to buy what he doesn't have and aggressive enough to bully his way into getting anything he can't buy.  But he still finds himself haunted by an internal voice that chants &quot;I want, I want,&quot; and because he doesn't know himself what it is that he wants, he takes an impulsive trip to Africa to see if he can find it in the desert wilds.<br />&quot;Henderson&quot; the novel is actually very funny, and Henderson the character is himself quite charming.  Bellow is careful to only fill you in on Henderson's belligerent (and sometimes abusive) behavior as something that has happened in the past.  The Henderson we come to know over the course of the novel is one who is open and respectful to new cultures and is eager to learn that which can only be taught by others.  He strikes up a close friendship with Dahfu, King of the Wairiri, an African tribe, and it's their relationship--and primarily what Henderson learns about himself from Dahfu--that comprises the majority of the novel's plot.<br />&quot;Henderson the Rain King&quot; should appeal to anyone with politically left leanings and especially those who are frustrated by the materialist obsessions that plagues our culture. As others have said before this, the plot is actually quite simple, and one drawback to the book is that its story does not warrant its length.  I didn't find Bellow's prose dense as some others have, but you do have to exhibit some patience with him as a writer, as he's prone to tangents and ruminative wanderings.  <br />All in all, however, this was a very enjoyable book and led me to believe that I might enjoy Saul Bellow after all.	2004-02-09
US	49163253	REF2J0EEH4PFA	067973449X	368646802	Dead Babies	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Minor Amis	I think the other reviews here for this Martin Amis novel are very apt. &quot;Dead Babies&quot; is a glib, superficial novel, not up to Amis's usual standards and obviously written early in his career. Characters are barely developed, the plot is obscure at best and at times completely incomprehensible, and Amis's disgust and nastiness (always present in his writing) is undisciplined here and overshadows everything else.<br />However, that said, even less than stellar Amis is fun to read, because he has a writing style that is so unquestionably unique and he writes phrases that pop like firecrackers. He's also scathingly funny, if your sense of humour leans a certain way.<br />The complaints about Amis's shallow treatments of Americans in this novel are justified, but his treatment didn't bother me too much, since he doesn't paint a much rosier picture of the English.<br />Like others here have said, if you've never read Amis before, I probably wouldn't start with &quot;Dead Babies,&quot; as you might not want to read anything else.  However, if you're an Amis fan, this novel lends an interesting look into the early development of a great writer.	2004-01-29
US	49163253	R2341523PCX768	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	2	13	14	N	N	A Feeble Attempt at Drama	&quot;House of Sand and Fog&quot; is an utterly grating and annoying, dismal novel that appears to be most concerned with how much it can irritate its reader before said reader throws the book against the wall.  By the time this twaddle was over, I was fed up with everything about it: the writing style, the characters, the stupid plotline.  I wanted to see the three principal characters horse-whipped by the time all was said and done.<br />This book pretentiously compares itself to classic Greek tragedy, but don't be bamboozled into thinking you're going to find anything profound here.  We're supposed to feel frustration at the childish behavior of the three principals and shake our heads ruefully at the end, thinking &quot;if only there had been more understanding, the whole ugly situation could have been averted.&quot;  Yeah, well if Andre Dubus hadn't made his one and only point in the first 20 pages, the book might have been interesting.  As it is, all we get are 300+ numbing pages about people acting as self-destructively as possible.<br />I did give it two stars instead of one because of the character of Colonel Behrani.  He is interesting, and Dubus manages to make me understand all of his motivations.  I can just picture the kind of proud, stubborn patriarch he represents because I've known a few in my time.<br />However, when it comes to the characters of Kathy and (especially) Lester, Dubus leaves me beached and wondering why in hell I should I care about these people let alone take the time to understand what motivates them?  Kathy is disappointingly simplistic, and I wanted to scream every time she lit up one more cigarette.  Whenever Dubus needs her to be doing something, he has her light up a cigarette.  I felt like I'd been on a week-long drinking and smoking binge by the time I&quot;d finished this novel.<br />But Dubus saves his worst writing for developing the character of Lester, a man who makes about as much sense as Baz Luhrmann fans.  Even Dubus doesn't understand this character, and it's painfully obvious. 50 pages from the ending (while the whole mess is supposed to be charging toward a climax), Dubus is still pausing to give us yet more back story on Lester in a desperate attempt to make his actions seem at all relevant or feasible.  Why not just make him a crazy lunatic and be done with it?<br />I suppose I was supposed to care about the harm that comes to the characters in the end, but I wasn't.  Frankly, I was happy that some of them were put out of their misery.<br />I only wish someone had spared me the misery of reading this overblown piece of rubbish.<br />And by the way, Dubus needs to take a class in literary subtlety. When you've made reference to your novel's driving metaphor in the freaking TITLE (fog), give your readers some credit for not being total idiots, and avoid making references to it on every stinking page.<br />Stay away, stay far, far away.	2004-01-23
US	49163253	R31EWG0QHZ62M3	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Delightfully Entertaining Novel	A young Indian boy discovers religion, and is so taken with the idea of faith that he commits to Catholocism, Hinduism, and Islam. Then, in its voyage across the Pacific to Canada, the ship carrying the boy and his family, as well as a menagerie of zoo animals (his father is a zookeeper), sinks, leaving the boy alone in a lifeboat with a tiger, an orangutan, a hurt zebra, and a nasty hyena.  The respective struggles for survival ensue, making up the majority of this fascinating, fast read.  How do these two seemingly disparate parts of the novel connect?  The answer is subtlely.  Yann Martel is a quirky writer, and he's written a quirky book.  It might be easy to finish this novel and think its various parts don't necessarily mesh, but I have a feeling that even if you felt that way, you'd enjoy it anyway, because the parts in and of themselves are so interesting.  But actually, what the young boy Pi learns about religious faith has a great deal of bearing (and also is greatly influenced by) what happens to him during his ordeal.<br />This novel always keeps its sense of humour, but be prepared for some harsh brutality.  After all, the struggle for survival is never pretty, and the natural world, while offering many beauties, can be incredibly violent as well.  During his journey, Pi learns that faith in general is much more important than faith in its specifics, and whether or not you're Hindu, Catholic, or Muslim matters little when you're simply trying to figure out how to capture enough water to prevent yourself from dying before the day ends.  &quot;Life of Pi&quot; manages to be both thoroughly entertaining and thoughtfully profound, but never in a self-conciously literary way.  Martel's writing style is loose and easy, and the pages fly by.<br />I was greatly touched by the novel's ending, and it introduces a startling ambiguity that will immediately make you want to read the book again, accepting perhaps a completely different interpretation of events.<br />I'm not exaggerating when I say this book is quite unlike anything I've read before.  It manages to be truly original and heartfelt, containing an important message for our troubled, hate-filled times.	2004-01-23
US	49163253	R26AV8IJFVXEFJ	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	5	68	73	N	N	A Simple Plan	The film &quot;A Simple Plan&quot; could have easily been called &quot;An American Tragedy,&quot; and the book &quot;An American Tragedy&quot; could have just as easily been called &quot;A Simple Plan.&quot;  The plan at the book's center seems so simple indeed. The novel's protagonist, Clyde Griffiths, impregnates a girl below his social station, and he's so terrified by the idea of being exposed and ruining his chances at a life as part of the social elite (and losing the local well-to-do beauty to whom he's hitched himself) that he actually finds himself driven to kill her as his only escape. But Clyde has a simple mind, and his efforts to claw his way out of a desperate situation that inexorably suffocates him is compelling fiction.<br />Theodore Dreiser has been called one of the worst great writers in the history of literature, and that claim is justified.  He can hardly compose a sentence that doesn't drop like lead from the tongue.  He's especially fond of the double negative, which can become pretty tedious in a 900+ page novel.  And in retrospect, the amount of plot on display in his novel does not seem to warrant its length, but somehow, I was able to overcome these two factors and find myself engrossed in it anyway.  It doesn't for one second become boring or slow.  And it offers some especially candid and frank ideas about the nature of guilt and the culpability of those who take lives, whether they're working on the side of crime or the law.  Most fascinating for me were the novel's final pages, when Clyde tries to turn to religion for solace when he's at his loneliest, but can't get around the notion that there's really nothing to turn to.<br />Dreiser pulls off quite a feat by making all of his characters sympathetic.  I didn't want Clyde to get away scot-free with what he'd done, but my heart couldn't help but go out to him.  Likewise, Roberta, the girl he wrongs, could have come across as shrewish in another author's hands (she does in the film version, &quot;A Place in the Sun,&quot; if you're interested in a literature to film comparison) but she doesn't here.  Even Sondra, who could have been so unlikeably spoiled, comes across as essentially a warm character.<br />1925 was the literary year for deconstructing the American Dream. Both &quot;An American Tragedy&quot; and &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; came out that year, and while I have to admit that &quot;Gatsby&quot; is a better written book, &quot;Tragedy&quot; just has a visceral appeal for me, and it's the one I enjoyed more.	2004-01-06
US	49163253	R14K1DRLQ1YFLI	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Atwood Shines, As Usual	Margaret Atwood is never less than a fascinating author, and \\"Alias Grace\\" is rarely less than a fascinating novel. Taking as its source material the story of Grace Marks, notoriously (and inconclusively) involved in the murders of her employer and fellow servant in the 1850's, the novel details the attempts of a psychologist to plumb the depths of Grace's psyche and help her past the memory block that is preventing her from remembering her part in the crime.  The suspense of the novel lies in the doctor's (and reader's) uncertainty as to Grace's innocence.  Has she really forgotten what happened?  Was she a naive dupe?  Or was she in fact the one doing the duping?  In typical Atwood fashion, the conclusion remains somewhat ambiguous but immensely satisfying nonetheless.<br />This ambiguity is a perfect match for Atwood's story, and indeed for Atwood's approach to story telling in general. Her female protagonists are always ambiguous creatures; they think and feel in shades of grey.  Yet they're always surrounded by people (both men and women) who want to tidily slot them away in easily-definable categories. Grace is just such a character.  It would be easiest for everyone involved if she could be labeled as a demon, a half-wit---anything that would make her actions understandable to those around her.  But of course, the person that is Grace Marks is much too complicated for such classification.<br />\\"Alias Grace\\" is one of the darker novels Atwood has written, and she's a rather dark author to begin with.  The period feels researched well, and the details describing the lives of domestic servants is quite interesting.  I felt she was on somewhat shaky ground once she gets into the realm of hypnosis and spiritualism.  Something about the hypnosis scene rang false for me.  Indeed, I was left a bit confused by the outcome of the it (I won't say any more), and I'm not sure if Atwood intended for me to be confused or not. And in a related comment, I wish she had done abit more with the relationship between Grace and Jeremiah over all.  <br />\\"Alias Grace\\" wasn't quite as satisfying for me as \\"The Handmaid's Tale\\" (I doubt any Atwood book will be) or \\"Cat's Eye,\\" and I think I even liked \\"The Robber Bride\\" more.  But even lesser Atwood is always more welcome than the best some other author has to offer.	2003-12-09
US	49163253	R3JDH59WR8FQL9	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Stunning, if You're in the Mood for It	Take my word for it--if you've not read Virginia Woolf before--you need to be in the mood to read her.  I think her books can be unbearable otherwise.  However, I was in the mood for &quot;To the Lighthouse,&quot; and I thought it was terrific.<br />I've been much more intrigued by Virginia Woolf after Michael Cunningham's &quot;The Hours,&quot; (and the subsequent film) brought her back into the limelight.  She was fascinated with the degree to which everyday, seemingly trivial details of life can seem to be matters upon which the state of the world hinge in the lives of those experiencing them.  Therefore, in Virginia Woolf's world, the decision as to whether or not a vacationing family will visit a lighthouse on the following day becomes the focus of everyone's thoughts--to a little boy, it seems as if his world will end if he doesn't get to go; to the father, his ability to determine whether or not they will go gives him a sense of power and authority over his wife and children.<br />And at the center of all this non-drama is Mrs. Ramsay, wife and mother, who is the foundation upon which the family is built.  Woolf is expert in communicating the influence Mrs. Ramsay has on those around her.  Everyone is struck by her beauty, her bearing, her very existence.  It's this quality in her that makes so many wives and mothers the center of their respective families, which gives &quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; a sort of universality that resonated very strongly with me.<br />There has been a lot of literary study on the psychology of the novel (especially Freudian), which has become somewhat less interesting as Freud has become commonplace.  I would instead appreciate it for the utter mastery of language exhibited by Woolf, and the insights she has into male/female relationships.<br />&quot;To the Lighthouse&quot; is one of those books that left me feeling incredibly sad in a very satisfied way, and I can't even tell you why.  I don't always enjoy such ethereal writing (I don't even enjoy other books by Woolf) but in this case I enjoyed every word.	2003-12-02
US	49163253	R2J3X0KKPLDNQM	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	3	7	19	N	N	Historical Fiction, with an Emphasis on Historical	I was very excited to read &quot;I, Claudius&quot; because of the almost unanimous praise it has received by Amazon readers. I'm sorry to say that I was disappointed in it.  <br />It's by no means a bad book, but I found that Robert Graves' cold historical voice kept me at a distance emotionally from the story and characters.  Graves relates the story in a &quot;first this happened, then that happened&quot; kind of way, which has the benefit of explaining the history surrounding Claudius's rise to Roman Emperor in a clear and non-convoluted way.  However, Graves' approach to the story also succeeds in keeping the reader uninvolved in the proceedings, because characters never become alive, but instead remain as about as engaging as the people you read about in high school history books.<br />In short, I would recommend this book if you're in the mood for a plot-driven novel---and believe me, there's plenty of plot to sink your teeth into.<br />But if you're in the mood to wrap your mind around fully developed characters and psychological complexity, I would read something besides this.	2003-12-02
US	49163253	R3HIUMLHEJSY58	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A Devil of a Good Time	***Some spoilers ahead***<br />This book took a little while to get moving for me, but once it did, it really took off and I was hooked.<br />&quot;Carter Beats the Devil&quot; is a sprawling thing, loosely historical (very loosely) and freshly unpredictable.  I didn't realize until I read Glen David Gold's afterword that Charles Carter was a real magician performing in the heyday (teens and '20s) of the magic boom in the U.S.  But don't be scared away by a dose of history with your fiction.  The history on display here is only history in the loosest sense of the word.  This book is first and foremost a work of fiction; let's face it---any book that has Warren Harding living on a deserted island with his wife and a menagerie of retired circus animals can't be taken too seriously, right?<br />The beginning of the book, detailing Carter's childhood and his motivations in becoming a magician, aren't that involving.  For once, I just didn't care why he became a magician, and I would have accepted &quot;he just wanted to perform magic&quot; as reason enough.  But on top of motivation not being necessary, the motivation Gold does provide isn't particularly interesting.<br />On top of the weak beginning, I thought the book was going to run a predictable course: Begin with framing device, explain childhood of protagonist, explain success of protagonist, explain downfall of protagonist, explain comeback of protagonist, return to framing device.  I thought the novel would end with Harding's death, since that it is where it starts.  But I was pleasantly surprised to find that the real plot didn't even get started until after Harding has &quot;died.&quot;  Once I reached this point in the book, I couldn't put it down and found scene after scene to be thrilling and memorable: the demonstration of T.V., a secret meeting of anarchists, an over-the-top duel involving knives, a motorcycle, a tiger, a water tank and a levitation device....Oh don't ask----just read it.<br />A very funbook, and definitely recommended if you're in the mood for a little escapism (pun intended).	2003-12-02
US	49163253	R2S8UYU5ORW8C1	0140178724	232040432	Was	Books	1	30	47	N	N	A Dire Novel	I know from the start that I'm going to get slammed for reviling this book, since visitors here at Amazon seem not to judge a review by its quality but rather by the opinion of the reviewer.  But I don't care----I can't stand this book.<br />Those of you who are drawn to \\"Was\\" because you stumbled across \\"Wicked,\\" another Oz-themed book from the 90's, beware. That was my reason for wanting to read it, and man am I horribly disappointed.  I couldn't put \\"Wicked\\" down; I could barely bring myself to pick \\"Was\\" up.  By the end, I was reading it simply to finish rather than to find out what happened next.<br />On the last page of \\"Was,\\" one character accuses another of not being able to remember what it was like to be a child.  One could make the same criticism of Geoff Ryman, the author.  For a man who decides to stage a huge portion of his novel from the point of view of children, Ryman is completely inept at giving his writing a child's voice.  He's not as interested in exploring how children react and develop in response to environmental and physical circumstances as he is in forcing thoughts and behavior on them that satisfy his pre-conceived notion of how things should turn out.  I hope that makes sense--I just didn't believe in any of his characters for one second (except for one, who I'll get to in a minute).<br />This book is a mish-mash of ideas and agendas.  Ryman seems to be trying for a deconstruction of themes associated with \\"The Wizard of Oz,\\" but fails at that.  He seems to be trying for a cautionary tale about letting oneself become disassociated from anything resembling a home, and fails.  His book seems to be at varying times a criticism of the treatment of children and at the tail end of the treatment of women, but fails.  I cannot put it any more plainly--this book failed to do anything other than make me miserable.<br />Why did I finish it at all you may ask?  Because on paper the story sounds so unique and cool, and other readers here kept promising that at the half-way mark it becomes unputdownable.  Well, it doesn't.<br />There were only two moments of genuinely good writing (or at least more interesting writing) and I guess these are what kept me going, even though they occur early on.  One involves Judy Garland's makeup artist during the filming of \\"Oz,\\" and this is interesting only because I'm a film buff and the Hollywood studio setting added a welcome relief from the drudgery of the other stories.  The second part is an all-too short soliloquy delivered by Judy Garland's mother, and to give Ryman credit, it's a beautiful piece of writing.  The rest is miserable, gloomy, depressing drek.<br />You know what this reminded me of?  \\"The Hours,\\" by Michael Cunningham, except I love that book.  Like Cunningham's novel, \\"Was\\" plays with inter-related stories in the same way, and creates parallels between the present and the past and has characters struggling with some of the same universal issues that plague us and have plagued us in both the past and the present.  Except that Cunningham is a good writer and Ryman is not.<br />I guess Ryman is a fantasy writer, and I don't know anything about anything else he's written, and now I don't want to.<br />I'm sorry to write such a rambling, bitter review, but this book really made me feel lousy, and I'm so glad my reading experience is over.<br />Needless to say, I'm not recommending this one.	2003-10-09
US	49163253	RTX8MUEAWO91O	0375752498	767587980	The Way of All Flesh (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	121	124	N	N	The Victorian Novel Grows Up	&quot;The Way of All Flesh&quot; seems to be best known as the Victorian novel that thumbed its nose at Victorian novels.  For this reason, it's frequently mentioned in talks of literary history, but I don't ever hear of anyone praising Samuel Butler's novel from an artistic perspective.  Actually, I find the book more interesting for its story than for its place in the development of 19th and 20th century literature.<br />I tried to read this novel once and only got through the first 100 pages or so.  I found it remarkably dull and dry, and the tone of the first-person narrator (Mr. Overton), who stops the action every 10 pages or so to offer personal asides that reveal more about him than about the characters he's writing about, I thought to be snide and irritating.<br />But I hate not finishing a book, so I picked it up again, this time understanding that it would be a dry read and prepared to appreciate it for its historical context.  To my surprise, I found myself caught up in the story and thought the whole thing very funny.  I can't believe I missed all the humour the first time through.<br />I hesitate to give this novel too much credit for deflating the pompous bubble of Victorian morality, because other authors writing at the same time as Butler were doing the same thing (Dickens for one can be incredibly caustic).  But there is a maturity to Butler's writing that is not present in other Victorian writers.  This novel feels much more modern than anything else written pre-1900, and even feels more modern than some books written after.  Unlike Dickens, whose characters are either all good or all bad and have about as much depth as the characters you'd find in a comic book (this isn't a criticism--I like Dickens), Butler's characters (at least Ernest, his protagonist) seem very much alive and flawed.  Ernest is easily influenced by everyone around him and makes decisions based on how he thinks he should act rather than how he wants to act.  He doesn't know what he wants out of life, he's a screw up, he's got lousy luck.  All of these things make him quite endearing because they make him so human.  The scathing criticism of religious hypocrisy and moral bombast exhibited by the majority of people in Ernest's life can be funny, especially if you agree with it (as I do), but the story itself is much more interesting than the social commentary.<br />I would definitely recommend this book. It's not necessarily a page turner, but it consistently held my interest.  Just remember that it's supposed to be funny.  Think of Butler as a 19th century Evelyn Waugh, and you should do just fine.	2003-09-30
US	49163253	R3OQDNGHADJOGL	0060955228	535077019	Under the Volcano (Perennial Classic.)	Books	1	45	57	N	N	Dread, Dread and Nothing But Dread	Malcolm Lowry wants readers of &quot;Under the Volcano&quot; to be consumed by a feeling of inevitable doom, and boy does he succeed.  This book is 375 pages of nothing but dread.  It follows its protagonist, Geoffrey Firmin, through one feverish, alcohol-soaked day (the Day of the Dead--subtle, huh?) and builds oppressively to a violent, depressing conclusion.<br />It has been said that Lowry was influenced by James Joyce (and particularly &quot;Ulysses&quot;) when writing this novel.  If so, he aped all of Joyce's worst qualities without recreating any of Joyce's flair for wordcraft.  I'll probably get slammed by people who liked this book for saying this, but I found &quot;Under the Volcano&quot; nearly interminable.<br />The biggest problem is that Lowry's ideas are so utterly obtuse, but his symbolism is painfully obvious.  He fails at making his readers understand the motivation behind any of his characters' thoughts or actions, but he never hesitates to give us countless passages that mention the volcanoes that give the book its title, as well as dogs and vegetation that also play an important, and endlessly repeated, role symbolically.  &quot;Under the Volcano&quot; is one of those books that make you feel drugged and sleepy because events and dialogue just occur without any real relation to each other, giving everything a surreal, disjointed, dream-like quality.  I'm sure this is the effect Lowry was going for, but it's tricky to pull the technique off over the course of a novel this long.  Read &quot;The Day of the Locust&quot; for an example of the same approach handled much more expertly. <br />Lowry tries to be profound, but his efforts result in opacity.  He tries unsuccessfully to tie the personal crises of these characters to the larger and more significant political crises soon to engulf the world (the book takes place in 1938, and the characters make frequent references to the situation in Europe). He doesn't do this well enough, and therefore neither the political undertones nor the characters themselves are the least bit interesting.<br />Dull, dull, dull.	2003-09-18
US	49163253	R26O4AOS5IXICW	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	3	362	397	N	N	Mission Accomplishable	O.k. to start with...for all of you out there who are interested in reading &quot;Ulysses&quot; but are intimidated by all of the rest of you out there who say it's unreadable, take my advice.  Read this book.  It's absolutely ridiculous to say this book can't be read.  I can't say you're going to find it interesting or enjoyable, but you can read it.<br />There are people who would have you believe you have to wage a massive campaign of pre-&quot;Ulysses&quot; study before delving into Joyce's novel.  I've heard it's necessary to read biographies of Joyce, read all of his other literature, read about the history of Dublin, read Greek mythology...even study Dublin city maps!!!  Don't you believe any of this.  &quot;Ulysses&quot; is perfectly approachable having read none of the above.  I admit that reading &quot;Portrait of the Artist&quot; first is helpful, and at least having some passing knowledge of &quot;The Odyssey&quot; won't hurt, but being familiar with these other works will only help you appreciate some of Joyce's nuances.  Being unfamiliar with them will not prevent you from digesting &quot;Ulysses.&quot;<br />Now, for the book itself.  Is &quot;Ulysses&quot; good?  That's become an almost irrelevant question to ask.  Do you have to like &quot;Ulysses?&quot;  No.  Do you have to admit that it is the greatest novel ever written?  No.  Anyone denying that the book was influential in altering the course of literature would just be foolish.  However, I don't think &quot;Ulysses&quot; is the be-all and end-all of 20th Century literature, and the new ground that Joyce broke would have been broken anyway had he not done it first.  He was certainly an innovator, but other authors (Faulkner comes to mind) use Joyce's modernist approach to fiction and do it better.<br />For ultimately, Joyce is a lousy storyteller.  Notice I did not say he is a lousy writer.  One can't deny the absolute mastery of language apparent in &quot;Ulysses.&quot;  But Joyce is almost completely unable to connect with his reader.  Parts of this novel come close to doing just that, but in between there are vast numbers of pages of dull, dull prose that set out to be as incomprehensible as possible.  What was Joyce afraid of?  Was he scared that what he actually had to say wasn't either particulary interesting or profound, so he had to bury it underneath layer after layer of obscure allusions and writing styles?  I didn't understand every part of &quot;Ulysses,&quot; and I don't believe all of these so-called Joyce experts do either, despite the massive amount of critical study done about it.  However, understanding every single part of the novel and understanding the novel are two different things, and I believe I understood &quot;Ulysses.&quot;  And what I found is that it's not the beast everyone's made it out to be, but neither is it particulary interesting or profound.<br />In short, I would recommend that everyone read &quot;Ulysses,&quot; if for no other reason than that you can have an opinion on it.  I won't be reading it again, so I guess I'll have to just live in ignorance of all the hidden delights Joyce offers his readers.  I neither loved it or hated it---there are many books I've enjoyed reading less and many more books I've enjoyed reading much more. Before reading &quot;Ulysses&quot; I was reluctant to state that I didn't like Joyce's writing, feeling that any opinion about Joyce without having read his masterwork would be uneducated.  Well, I've read the damn thing now, and I can state with a very educated opinion: &quot;I do not like Joyce's writing.&quot;pletely unable to connect with his reader.  Parts of this novel come close to doing just that, but in between there are vast numbers of pages of dull, dull prose that set out to be as incomprehensible as possible.  What was Joyce afraid of?  Was he scared that what he actually had to say wasn't either particulary interesting or profound, so he had to bury it underneath layer after layer of obscure allusions and writing styles?  I didn't understand every part of &quot;Ulysses,&quot; and I don't believe all of these so-called Joyce experts do either, despite the massive amount of critical study done about it.  However, understanding every single part of the novel and understanding the novel are two different things, and I believe I understood &quot;Ulysses.&quot;  And what I found is that it's not the beast everyone's made it out to be, but neither is it particulary interesting or profound.<br />In short, I would recommend that everyone read &quot;Ulysses,&quot; if for no other reason than that you can have an opinion on it.  I won't be reading it again, so I guess I'll have to just live in ignorance of all the hidden delights Joyce offers his readers.  I neither loved it or hated it---there are many books I've enjoyed reading less and many more books I've enjoyed reading much more. Before reading &quot;Ulysses&quot; I was reluctant to state that I didn't like Joyce's writing, feeling that any opinion about Joyce without having read his masterwork would be uneducated.  Well, I've read the damn thing now, and I can state with a very educated opinion: &quot;I do not like Joyce's writing.&quot;	2003-09-10
US	49163253	R3VQR7U2WD2WGC	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Absolutely Fantastic	The imagination on display by Gregory Maguire in &quot;Wicked&quot; is almost breathtaking. He bites off way more than he can chew in some instances and introduces more themes and storylines than he knows what to do with, but somehow none of that matters, and the book is compulsively readable anyway.  The various threads of story are tied up with varying degrees of success, but what comes through most is the audacity with which Maguire has envisioned this pre-Dorothy Oz.  I guarantee you will not be able to watch &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot; (or read it, for that matter) with the same perspective again.<br />Highly, highly recommended.	2003-09-10
US	49163253	R35ACWCUBFFWZI	0375752501	841170407	The Magnificent Ambersons (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Intensely Readable	Who would have thought that a novel from 1918 would be such a page turner?  Not to generalize, but there aren't many books pre-1920 or so that I've been unable to put down.  Until \\"The Magnificent Ambersons.\\"<br />Covering a span of roughly 20 years in the lives and fortunes of the Amberson/Minafer family, Booth Tarkington uses the fall of the family from its privileged social standing as a symbol of the blurring distinction between classes that took place in the country's urban areas at the beginning of the 20th Century.  The Ambersons live in a stately mansion, separated from the outside world by vast lawns and gates, and gradually watch their secluded neighborhood overrun by cheap apartment buildings, increased traffic and pollution.  What Tarkington does, nearly 80 years before the actual phrase came into common usage, is address the problems associated with urban sprawl.<br />The book has two of the most colorful characters ever put down on paper: Georgie Amberson Minafer, the spoiled brat protagonist who fights most fiercely to retain the family's position as one of the most distinguished in the city; and Aunt Fanny, the manipulative spinster who doesn't understand just how serious the consequences of her gossiping and meddling (to her merely distractions from the boredom and tedium of her life) can be.<br />I surprisingly felt much sympathy for Georgie. He can be odious at times admittedly, and more than once you want to see him slapped silly, and at one point in the novel you honestly begin to wonder if perhaps he's mentally ill, so extreme are the measures to which he will go in the sake of what he thinks is protecting his mother's good name.  But by the time the novel ended, I couldn't help being won over by him.  He's got an overbearing personality, but I shared his opinion of the ugliness he sees sprouting up around him.  His obsession with a time gone by springs from naivete, and as he grows over the course of the novel, he experiences a shift of priorities, as all adults do as they become adults.<br />In many ways, Tarkington's novel is about dealing with maturity and the occassional disillusionment that can accompany it. There's a beautiful passage in which Georgie's uncle George (Georgie's namesake) explains that youth can never understand the triviality of the things it takes so seriously (status, passion, success) and will never be able to understand it until youth has become middle age.  And Georgie's grandfather, responsible for the wealth of the family, realizes on his deathbed the ultimate uselessness of all the material goods he has acquired over a lifetime.<br />If you would like to see a good film version as a companion piece to the novel, see the 1942 Orson Welles version rather than the A&E version from a few years ago.  Welles' film is butchered and as a result tells only a very truncated version of the story, but it gets the tone just right, and Agnes Moorehead's dead-on portrayal of Fanny is one of cinema history's highlights.  The A&E adaptation, meanwhile, is dreadful.<br />But please don't let either of these film versions take the place of the novel itself. It lingers in the mind long after the final page has been turned.	2003-08-15
US	49163253	R2HEVLHBSXO470	0802137954	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	2	16	23	N	N	Did I Miss Something?	Even if I don't particularly like a critically acclaimed novel, I can usually understand the reason for the acclaim.  Not so with &quot;The Ginger Man.&quot;  I honestly don't understand why this book is so praised by the literary establishment.  It doesn't break any new ground stylistically (in fact, I think J.P. Donleavy's writing is pretty anonymous) or thematically.  The description on the book's back cover would have you believe this is a rollicking farce about a lovable cad---don't you believe it.  This book isn't funny.  The &quot;lovable cad&quot; is actually a jerk and by the time he'd gotten drunk and abusive for the thousandth time, I had made up my mind that the literary establishment that loves &quot;The Ginger Man&quot; must have all been drunk themselves when they decided this book is a must read.<br />It's not difficult, but neither is it in the least bit interesting.	2003-08-15
US	49163253	R1DE5YB25X3BNT	082031661X	300765205	Tobacco Road: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	3	91	103	N	N	What Is This, Exactly?	If you were to ask me if I liked \\"Tobacco Road,\\" my answer would be \\"I guess so.....I think.\\"  <br />It's hard to decide whether or not I liked this book because it's hard to decide what exactly this book is.  It's a wisp of a thing really, about 150 pages of nothing happening.  Yet it's not boring.  There are parts of it that I found funny, but they are so grotesque that I'm not sure they're supposed to be funny.  I wanted to sympathize with these poor, pathetic people living like animals, yet I didn't, because they so frustratingly refuse to do anything to help themselves.<br />Erskine Caldwell's story involves a couple of days in the life of a dismally poor one-time sharecropper and those members of his family who haven't yet left home, scraping a living out of the dust in Depression-era Georgia.  Like I said, not a lot happens in the way of plot until the hurried ending, which feels tacked on by Caldwell at the last minute as if to justify to his readers why they spent their time reading his book.<br />If you thought the Joads of \\"The Grapes of Wrath\\" had it bad, wait until you get a load of the Lesters.  This family has none of the dignity displayed by Steinbeck's characters, and it's this difference that ultimately makes the Lesters not worth caring about.  Jeeter, the family's patriarch, stubborly refuses to leave his land, even though other poor families are finding opportunities and means for providing for their own families in the nearby mill towns.  Jeeter justifies his refusal to leave by taking on a martyred air and feigning a noble attachment to the land, but in reality he's victim to an intensely lazy malaise that will prevent him from ever doing anything to help himself.  He thinks the children who have left home never to return or even communicate with their parents have acted selfishly and callously (mostly because they refuse to send money home), but who can blame them?  I wouldn't ever return home either.<br />I think this book is supposed to befunny; the back cover of the book compares Caldwell to Mark Twain.  However, if that's the case, then this book borders on the appalling.  Caldwell's tone throughout is snide and nasty--he invites us to laugh at the Lesters and their stupidity.  And if we're supposed to be laughing, then one wonders what Caldwell's purpose was in writing this.  If we're meant to simply read this book as a comedy, then I'm repelled at the pointlessness of the whole enterprise.  I don't truly believe this was Caldwell's sole purpose, yet the book also fails as an indictment of the social institutions responsible for reducing families to this state of destitution.<br />\\"Tobacco Road\\" falls into that category of books that you might as well read, since it's held in high esteem by the literary establishment and will take virtually no time to finish.  I think you'll be moderately entertained, but I also wouldn't be surprised if you have the the urge to scratch your head when it's all over and wonder what in the world you just sat through.	2003-08-13
US	49163253	R24T6AW6VI3LJ3	0618056815	902631932	The 42nd Parallel: Volume One of the U.S.A. Trilogy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Exhausting, But Rewarding, Experience	I won't write a separate review for each of the three novels in this trilogy, since really they only work when read together as one massive tome anyway.<br />&quot;U.S.A.&quot; is John Dos Passos' attempt to paint a verbal mural of life in America in roughly the first quarter of the 20th Century (the story ends somewhere around the beginning of the Great Depression).  It's a massive undertaking, and is the kind of stuff I usually love: a large cast of characters swirling through a complex plot.  Characters are introduced and drop out of one volume only to be picked up in someone else's story later in the trilogy; stories mix and mingle, with a main character in one plot line becoming a supporting player in someone else's.  Interspersed among the conventional narrative chapters are brief biographies of real-life figures of import in American cultural and political history: Carnegie, Henry Ford, Isidora Duncan, Teddy Roosevelt.  And if that were not enough, Dos Passos also throws in &quot;newsreel&quot; sections, which are abstract word montages comprised of newspaper headlines, song lyrics, political slogans, etc.<br />I don't know much about Dos Passos, but I imagine this was a fairly revolutionary work for its time.  The biography and newsreel sections alone give the work the feeling of nonfiction, but even the narrative portions of the trilogy feel as if they are historical accounts rather than fiction.  That makes the books both interesting and ultimately a bit tedious.  After three good-sized novels, Dos Passos' clinical, objective tone begins to wear thin, and the reader begins craving some juicy, lyrical, imaginative prose to take its place.  That is why I can't quite bring myself to give this work 5 stars.<br />Still, anyone interested in American literature and cultural development should at least give this trilogy a chance.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R3A6F847355MYH	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	1	5	46	N	N	Fitzgerald Had One Good Book in Him....	....and &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; was it.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	RRA43X6CSHT4S	037575315X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	3	24	29	N	N	Of Learning When to Use an Editor	If W. Somerset Maugham's intent in writing \\"Of Human Bondage\\" was to instill the desire in his reader to see Philip Carey (the book's protagonist) bludgeoned with a blunt object, he succeeded beautifully.<br />\\"Bondage\\" tells the long, long, long story of Carey from childhood through early middle age and the many relationships, despairs, epiphanies, longings, setbacks, sicknesses, friends, and beliefs he goes through along the way.  And did I mention that this book is long?<br />Maugham's prinicpal concern seems to be the incongruous desires that can chain us to people or habits that we know are self-destructive but indulge in anyway.  The book is epic in its scope, covering a vast number of storylines, but the central focus lies on the relationship between Philip and Mildred, a poor Cockney waitress with whom he strikes up a torrid relationship.  Mildred has to be the most unpleasant character ever committed to fiction, and the book's greatest weakness lies in the utter inability of me to understand what in the world Mildred can offer that so obsesses Philip.  Other reviewers have said that it's just plain old human lust, something that sometimes defies logic, but that's not good enough for me.  Maugham doesn't inhabit Mildred with one positive quality---he doesn't even describe her as being attractive (she's the only principle love interest I've ever read about whose skin is described as being green!).  I suppose part of Philip's infatuation could be explained away by his insecurity from being lame and the ever-present difficulty he has in interacting with others, but this still isn't enough justification for me.  Mildred is horrid, and I groaned every time she appeared.<br />I think the book is at its best, ironically, when it's not focusing on the Mildred/Philip relationship.  Philip's flirtations with art and medicine truly are fascinating (especially the accounts of working in a doctor's office), and Maugham manages moments of real truth in this novel that seem quite modern for the time in which it was written.  There's a very practical side of Philip that I could relate to, and I thought it very genuine and believable when Philip realizes the limitations the artistic life (usually so romanticized as ideal) can place on someone.<br />I suspect that is the allure of this book and the reason for its popularity: it encompasses so many ideas and stages in psychological and emotional growth that almost everyone can find something to which he or she can relate.  \\"Of Human Bondage\\" is an exhausting book, and I can't say I was sorry when it was over, but I did appreciate its candid honesty.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R38D6K01AL0O9X	0940322153	135715379	A High Wind in Jamaica	Books	4	51	52	N	N	What a Wonderful, Strange Find	I'll never be able to say the MLA's list of the greatest novels of the 20th Century was a total waste, because it made me aware of this book's existence.<br />I'd never heard of \\"A High Wind in Jamaica,\\" and had a hell of a time trying to find it---I ended up in the basement of a branch of my public library (I guess I shouldn't be endorsing the use of libraries on Amazon's site, but I can't afford to buy every book I want to read---sorry, Amazon).  Once I started it, I couldn't put it down.  <br />I'm always wishing I could find books like the ones it seems are only written for children. Kids get great books---full of adventure and fantasy and harrowing escapes, etc.  It always sounds fun to go back and read books that enthralled me as a kid so I can recapture the same feelings that filled me then.  But it never works.  I can never get into kids' books in the same way, no matter how hard I try.<br />\\"A High Wind in Jamaica\\" is like a children's book written for adults.  It's got all the right elements: tropical locations, a harrowing storm, pirates, murder.  But the psychological element Richard Hughes gives to the story adds a dark, brutal dimension that children's books are often missing altogether or only skate briefly by.<br />This novel has a wonderful way of seeing events through the eyes of a child, and it functions as a sort of warning not to forget that children, though maybe possessing less life experience than adults, are capable of feeling the same emotions and, more importantly, have the potential to be just as brutal.  In fact, Hughes suggests that children may actually be more brutal, since they have less of a knowledge base from which to understand and weigh consequences.<br />I don't want to make this book sound over burdened with rhetoric and psychobabble, however.  It's a fast-paced, tense novel, with a menacing tone constantly present just under the surface.  Hughes creates beautiful images of Jamaica in the book's early chapters, and paints a vivid picture of life at sea later on.  <br />If I actually had any money, I would buy the rights to this book, because it would make a great movie.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R3KV4SZMX4JPL7	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Harrowing and Amazing Odyssey	The audacity of &quot;As I Lay Dying&quot; may be somewhat diluted today, but can you imagine what readers must have felt when this first hit bookstands?  I don't know that before this novel there was ever another narrative so fragmented by different points of view.  Sure, other books existed that switched perspectives from one character to another--even Faulkner's own &quot;The Sound and the Fury&quot; did that--but in &quot;As I Lay Dying,&quot; Faulkner takes the conceit and stretches it almost to its extreme limit.  The sheer number of characters and the frequency with which the novel shifts from one perspective to another pretty much eliminates any chance the reader has of forming an objective point of view on the events in the narrative.  And that's the point.  Much of &quot;As I Lay Dying&quot;'s purpose is to illustrate that there is no one accurate account of an event, since accounts are always going to be filtered through the psyches of those relating them.  Just as in this novel each member of the Bundren family has his or her own motives for the trip to Jefferson (besides the primary stated motive of burying their dead wife and mother), so does each family member have their own accounts of what happens, who does what, who's at fault, etc.<br />This refusal on Faulkner's part to offer his readers a tidy plot with all loose ends tied up can be disorienting and frustrating to some.  I know Faulkner has a notorious reputation for being difficult.  However, this novel was my first introduction to Faulkner, and I didn't struggle that much with it.  I think a key to understanding Faulkner is to know that he wants to communicate with his readers, he just doesn't want to do it in the convential way.  If you keep an open mind and are willing to stay with him without giving up, I think you'll find reading him an immensely rewarding experience, as his stories are emotional, gripping and powerful.<br />In my opinion, this book is a must read for everyone interested in American literature.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R3K3IJM837DKCZ	0316926108	605334526	Scoop	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Funny, But Nothing Special	&quot;Scoop&quot; breezes by effortlessly enough, but it results in a fairly inconsequential novel.  Evelyn Waugh lampoons the media and journalistic society in this unadulterated comedy about the wrong man ending up in the wrong place at the right time.  You can just picture the BBC doing a hilarious film version of this, with John Cleese in the role of the main character (perhaps there is a movie version already).  It's a piffle of a book really, more worthy of P.G. Wodehouse than Evelyn Waugh.  That's not necessarily a bad thing, but one looking for something with as much bite to it as, say, Waugh's &quot;A Handful of Dust&quot; will be disappointed.  A fun but uninspired read.<br />Curiously, this was included on the MLA list of the 20th Century's 100 best novels.  Since Waugh was already represented in two other spots (for &quot;Dust&quot; and &quot;Brideshead Revisited&quot;) one wonders why they felt compelled to honor &quot;Scoop&quot; as well.  Maybe I missed something.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R1XHC76ZRXTK6N	0316926051	253013485	A Handful of Dust	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Shocking and Disturbing	Evelyn Waugh's &quot;A Handful of Dust&quot; is a masterpiece of dry British wit.  It's acerbic and scathingly satirical with a truly disturbing ending that completely disorients the reader.  I can't really talk about it without giving it away, so I strongly encourage you to read and find out for yourself.<br />I like Waugh the most when he mixes his penchant for humour with his angry razor-sharp social commentary, as he does here.  &quot;Scoop,&quot; another of his acclaimed novels, is funny, but it doesn't have the compelling conviction behind it that &quot;Dust&quot; does.  And &quot;Brideshead Revisited&quot; is beautifully written, but I miss the humour.<br />&quot;Dust,&quot; like most of Waugh's novels, is an incredibly quick read, and it's filled with the kind of humour that makes you uncomfortable for laughing at it.  When it was over, I found myself deeply moved, and the images associated with the novel's closing scenes have found a permanent place in my imagination.<br />Read this book.  Read it now.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R32WVN7JCPOKGR	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Compelling Book About the Nature of Politics	&quot;All the King's Men&quot; moves along breathlessly right through to its nail-biting climax.  I wasn't prepared for such a suspenseful read, but the intrigues, shady dealings and political backstabbing make for quite a thriller.<br />It's loosely based on the career of Huey &quot;Kingfisher&quot; Long, one-time governor of Louisiana.  I didn't know anything about Long before reading this book, but it doesn't matter.  Robert Penn Warren's novel is not about Louisiana politics, but rather about American politics in general and the ease with which political figures can become god like in the eyes of their voters and just as easily fall from their lofty perches.<br />Warren uses stylized, thick prose to conjure images of the dense, sultry Southern landscape that serves as this novel's backdrop.  The swampy, tangled undergrowth mirrors the tangled machinations going on among the politicians and aides that make up the novel's motley cast of characters.  Willie Talos (Stark, depending on the edition you read), takes center stage as the larger-than-life governor, but the story really belongs to Jack Burden, right-hand man to Talos and the novel's moral center.  And Warren creates a bona-fide scene-stealing character in that of Sadie Burke, aide to Talos, who understands what it takes to make it in an environment so dominated by power-hungry men and who more than adequately holds her own.<br />This is a compulsive read.  I didn't have the luxury of being able to sit down and read the whole thing in one sitting, which is probably the best way to approach it, as there are very few ideal stopping points along the way.  But whether you read it all at once or over several days, I hope that you will indeed read this book.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	RHJKDKYUZ7FV9	0060931736	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	2	11	26	N	N	Brodie the Baddy	I was tempted to rate this book one star higher, mostly because it is so short and reads so quickly that it didn't waste much of my time or energy to finish.<br />I kept waiting for this novel to amount to something. The potential was there--Miss Brodie could have been a deliciously compelling character, but Muriel Spark doesn't explore her possibilities very deeply. The only suspense comes from finding out which one of her group of select favorites is responsible for her downfall (this isn't a spoiler---you're told within the first couple of pages that this happens) and the answer when it comes is isn't very surprising nor is Miss Brodie's downfall very dramatic. This is a book that I feel doesn't have much to say to a reader who hasn't experienced something very close to the situations related in the narrative. And since I never went to a stodgy girls' school in Scotland in the 1930's, something was lost on me. That's not to say I couldn't have taken more from a story like this if another author had been in charge, but Spark doesn't give me much to work with.<br />As for the character of Miss Brodie herself, she's really quite annoying and unlikable. I suppose that's the point, but once you get past that, there's nothing more to the character to make her interesting. By the end I was hoping we would find out she at least was hiding dismembered corpses in her basement or something---instead, I finished the book, closed it and thought, \\"So what?\\" That's the worst possible reaction a book can elicit as far as I'm concerned.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R1Y9IXN70WHOOF	0375719202	462911655	Appointment in Samarra: A Novel	Books	4	51	52	N	N	A Strange Read	It would be easy to dismiss &quot;Appointment in Samarra&quot; as insignificant when compared to other, more well known literature.  It's certainly a quick, entertaining read, very funny at times, with a loose, somewhat disjointed quality that gives the whole novel a strange tone.  Separate events and characters are introduced that don't seem to have any obvious relation to one another, and at the book's end, they still don't.  However, as a time capsule of a specific place and time in American cultural history, it's very well done and fascinating to read.<br />At its basic level, &quot;Samarra&quot; inserts a stick of dynamite into the safe, complacent world of affluent, East coast snobbery by introducing into it an influx of immigrants and &quot;new&quot; money.  The WASP environment of cocktail parties, Ivy League schools and country clubs couldn't be sheltered forever from European emigres, specifically Jews, with money of their own.  I don't want to give anything of the plot away, but I will say that there is a tragedy in this book, and the ripples it sends through the rich community that serves as the focus of this novel's story are meant to signify the larger ripples affecting American culture on a much greater scale as the heady days of the Roaring 20's give way to the more sombre and politically aware days of the 30's and 40's.<br />I'm not completely sure what to make of a side story involving some petty mobsters, but I assume their intrusion into the fabric of this East coast society is meant as yet one more example of the loss of security from which these people felt by rights they would be sheltered.<br />There is no reason not to read &quot;Appointment in Samarra.&quot;  It won't take up much of your time, and I promise you won't ever be bored by it.  Whether you'll find it profound or especially memorable is another story.  I didn't particularly find it either, but I would recommend it nonetheless.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R2O4YC926GZTEM	055321439X	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Desultory, Depressing, Dismal	I really had to force myself to plow through &quot;Winesburg, Ohio,&quot; and it's only a little over 200 pages to begin with.  I can't remember a book that depressed me more, except perhaps for &quot;Tobacco Road,&quot; and at least that book was leavened with some humour.<br />&quot;Winesburg, Ohio&quot; is a series of loosely connected stories, each one centering on a different inhabitant of this small Mid-Western village.  In a nutshell, all of the characters are lonely for one reason or another, all make attempts to reach out to others for some solace and/or emotional companionship, and all fail miserably.  Sherwood Anderson's writing is flat and airless, never varied, and the whole enterprise sinks under the weight of its own monotony.<br />I give this book two stars instead of one because I'm feeling particularly generous today and because Anderson's writing did seem to greatly influence the course of the American short story.  Read away if unbroken despondence is your bag; otherwise, pass this one by.	2003-08-12
US	49163253	R1BSZN611XWMRR	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not Bad, But Not Great	&quot;The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter&quot; didn't move me in any way, but I can acknowledge the allure it seems to exercise on many people.  Carson McCullers' prose is a bit airless for me.  There is a certain beauty to be had in simple, precise language, but sometimes authors abuse that quality until their writing becomes characterless, which is how I feel about McCullers.  I wasn't struck by any of her images or turns of phrase.  I felt the nature of the story deserved a more poetic writing style than McCullers uses.<br />That said, the book does have a certain impact based on the story alone.  While reading it, I was only moderately involved, but the book lingered in my mind for a long time afterward, and even now I get a very distinct feeling when I think about it, which is not true of everything I read.<br />Definitely worth reading, but not one of my personal favorites.	2003-08-08
US	49163253	R3CYYJBZQD2ZK9	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Vonnegut Is Easy to Outgrow	The more Kurt Vonnegut I read, the more I begin to think his skills as a writer are somewhat limited and his writing itself sophomoric.  However, \\"Slaughterhouse-Five\\" is certainly the best of what I've read of him, and unlike some of his other books (\\"Breakfast of Champions,\\" for instance) holds up well to multiple readings.<br />\\"Slaughterhouse-Five\\" is typical Vonnegut in many ways, but it works better than the majority of his novels due to an emotional element that is usually lacking.  I felt for Billy Pigrim as a person and really cared whether or not he was able to pick up the pieces of his life and recover from the hell-on-earth atmosphere of World War II.  One scene stands out clearly in my mind---Billy at the window of a factory that manufactures (maple syrup I think?  Anyway, something sweet) and crying as he licks a spoon---crying because of the utter simplicity and unqualified pleasure something like maple syrup can give him.  It's as if the intensity of the horror he experiences during the fire-storming of Dresden increases the intensity of all other experiences as well, so that for this one moment, his whole world has come down to the taste of maple syrup on a spoon.  Wow, what a great scene.<br />This novel inevitably gets compared to \\"Catch-22\\" because of its subject matter and quirky tone, but really the two books aren't very similar.  I like \\"Catch-22\\" better, but would still recommend \\"Slaughterhouse-Five.\\"	2003-08-08
US	49163253	ROPLH871N6GV0	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Thank you MLA....	....for making me aware of this book's existence.<br />Like most people, I have mixed feelings about the MLA's list of greatest 20th century novels.  Some deserve their place on the list, some don't.  However, I've found that the list has been helpful in alerting me to the presence of books and authors I might never have heard of otherwise, and &quot;Darkness at Noon&quot; is certainly one of these.<br />The fact that it's at number 8 on the list makes me feel somewhat ignorant for not being familiar with it.  To top it off, I have an M.A. in English.  Yet, not once in any class was this book ever mentioned.  <br />I went into it hesitantly.  It just seemed from the description that it would be an awfully dry read.  Quite the reverse---it's a rip-roaring good read, and one of the few books I've read recently that I wasn't able to put down.  I began it on a flight to a business trip, and found myself returning to my hotel room at off times just so I could continue it.<br />Don't be daunted if you lack knowledge about this time period of Russian history (roughly the period surrounding World War II).  I certainly did, but it didn't hinder my enjoyment of this novel.  It's a captivating, suspenseful book from start to finish, and I'm so glad I discovered it.	2003-08-08
US	49163253	R1BK4F9GMVRVSI	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Who Knew War Could Be So Funny?	I'm getting a little nervous, because I'm re-reading &quot;Catch-22&quot; and am a bit less enamored by it than I was the first time around.  I'm going to go ahead and base this review on my first reading with the qualification that the book may not hold up quite as well on multiple readings.<br />The first time through, however, I was blown away.  This book is really not like anything else I'd ever read.  I know that statement sounds cliche, but it was true for me.  Joseph Heller invents an entirely new prism through which to view the world, and I suspect the humour and zaniness in this novel will either work or not work for readers based on personal taste.  It worked for me, and after reading it, the only thing I could think of was what had prevented me from reading it sooner.<br />Actually, my wife couldn't wait until I was done with the book, because at times I was in such a black mood while reading it.  That's not a criticism of the book but rather a testament to Heller's skill as an author.  He so perfectly controls the story that you will have tears of laughter rolling down your face one moment and a sick feeling in your stomach another as the story moves effortlessly from rollicking comedy to horrific tragedy.  <br />I won't bother trying to summarize the plot or characters.  I have read other comments that criticize Heller for not inventing developed characters, which I suppose is a justified criticism.  Many of them have a cartoonish quality and exist solely for the purposes of making a point or moving the plot along.  However, they're not totally devoid of depth, because when a character dies, I felt genuinely moved and actually mourned the loss.  Their individual traits and quirks (even if that's all you get of them) are so delightful that their absence from the story is keenly felt.<br />I can't praise this book enough and only hope that as I continue to re-read it, the genius of it will emerge once again.  One thing is for certain: I doubt I will everread anything quite like it again, because I doubt that anyone will ever again write anything quite like it.	2003-08-08
US	49163253	R2S8H279IO0TWX	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gorgeous....	&quot;The Grapes of Wrath&quot; is at times painfully beautiful.  John Steinbeck's skills as a writer are amazingly displayed throughout, and what most struck me about this novel is the way he can transition from one chapter that delves so fearlessly into the inner psyches of his characters to another that looks at the time period and events unfolding with an almost documentary-like detachment.<br />I can see how this book can turn off some.  I must admit that the first time I started it, I didn't get past the first 100 pages or so.  But something about it kept nagging at me to finish, and by the end of that particular summer, I had.  Then I re-read it a few years later, and couldn't put it down.  What keeps it so readable, at least for me, is the pure respect and dignity with which Steinbeck treats his characters.  These are decent, hard-working people trying to make the most that they can out of a desperate situation, and the book is never condescending.<br />&quot;The Grapes of Wrath&quot; is filled with such humanity that it very nearly brings one to tears at several points---yet it's never maudlin.  A scene involving a diner waitress offering free candy to two poverty-stricken children could be saccharine in any other hands, but here it's a wonderful instance of one human reaching out to another.  And in a world like the one portrayed here, where retaining even the barest vestiges of human dignity becomes a struggle, scenes like the one above take on immense proportions.<br />It's a shame that to many this book represents drudgery.  For me it was actually intensely readable, to the point that I didn't want to stop, and the ending took my breath away.  Again, it could have been hammy and heavy-handed, but it wasn't.  Not with Steinbeck behind the scenes.	2003-08-08
US	49163253	R33MJ83Q1E05HI	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	2	17	26	N	N	Quite a Ponderous Read	I've read &quot;Invisible Man&quot; 3 times now for various reasons, and each subsequent reading has proven this novel to be weaker than the one before.  Ralph Ellison offers up a fascinating narrative about race relations in America in the first half of the 20th Century, but it sadly is overwhelmed by his overheated prose style.  The invisible motif is effective as a metaphor for a black man's status in American society, but Ellison is so heavy handed in his use of it that it quickly becomes tedious.  And by the time the feverish finale (involving riots in what has become a surreal stand-in for New York City) has come to a close, my patience has come to an end.<br />It's probably worth reading this book once because it does maintain an important place in modern American literature.  Sadly, in literature classes and on &quot;best-of&quot; lists, books like &quot;Invisible Man&quot; and &quot;Native Son&quot; are frequently used as token place holders for African American literature as a whole, when I think there are much better books about the African American experience that frequently get ignored.  For example, on the MLA's list of 100 best 20th Century novels, both Ellison's and Wright's books are included, but obviously lacking are spots for &quot;The Color Purple,&quot; &quot;Beloved,&quot; and &quot;Their Eyes Were Watching God,&quot; all better than &quot;Invisible Man&quot; in my opinion.	2003-08-08
US	49163253	R3520QC2FFVLFG	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Greatest American Novel?  Perhaps...	If we define the greatest American novel as that which most completely captures the American ideology of a certain place and time in our history, then &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; might very well be the greatest American novel in existence.  However, is &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; the most enjoyable book I've ever read, or even the best written?  No.  This falls pretty low on my list of favorites, but I can't deny Fitzgerald's wonderful talent in putting it together.  In a way, this novel is the literary equivalent of &quot;Casablanca&quot; for me---I can acknowledge how well made it is, but distanced from the unique set of social circumstances in which it was first experienced, I can't quite understand the effect it seems to have on so many people.	2003-04-17
US	49163253	R3GOMWY0LAN2TC	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Knockout....	This is one of the most enjoyable reads I have ever experienced.  A wildly funny and moving book, it only works because Nabokov makes us sympathize with Humbert Humbert.  He's a sad man, and his quest for purity, while misguided and at times ridiculous, can be touching.  This book is shocking even now, and I caught myself at times laughing at things I felt embarrassed to be laughing at.  The characters of Luscious Lo and Charlotte Haze are delightful, and Nabokov's digs at the vapidity of American popular culture---the kind of generalization that usually rankles me---doesn't overpower the enjoyment of the story, mostly because he balances his criticisms with just as pointed digs at the European culture that seems fascinated with anything American.  This is a don't miss book.	2003-04-17
US	49163253	R3F2UMV9E56QTX	0140186832	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Enough Already	James Joyce does something that I cannot ever forgive him for---he makes me dislike reading.  It's not that I am scared or overwhelmed by difficult fiction.  I love William Faulkner, and puzzling through his books is usually part of the fun in reading him.  However, the difference between Joyce and Faulkner is that Faulkner always seems to have a burning desire to impart some meaning to his reader, whereas Joyce doesn't seem to care one way or another whether his nonsense writing ever makes sense to anyone.  As far as his novels go, \\"Portrait of the Artist\\" is the most accessible, but that's not saying much seeing as its competition is the idiotic \\"Finnegan's Wake\\" and the Great Book of the 20th Century, \\"Ulysses.\\"  This is one case where I really do feel scholars have equated incomprehensible writing with great literature.  I won't be foolish enough to deny Joyce's influence on modern writing---and I'm quite willing to admit that perhaps I'm not a sophisticated enough reader to appreciate him---but I've had dental work that has been more enjoyable to sit through than his books.	2003-04-17
