US	49169409	R3K20XUVIH2HDR	0862413486	82501402	An Eye on the Hebrides: An Illustrated Journey	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Magical sketches...	<BR>In this book, the author sketches her 200 days of traveling all of the Hebrides. Her extensive vocabulary enhances the tales of her journey, but the focus of the book is on the sketches rather than the actual travel adventures. For example, only one page of text describes her ten stormy days on Harris. The reader is traveling with an artist, so we read less about tourist destinations and more about the weather, the scenery, and the treck to get to the next hilltop - in order to sketch, of course. Whatever detail the descriptions of the journey are lacking are more than recovered in the sketches. Most are in black and white, with the occasional breathtaking color scene. This is a beautiful book, but it shouldn't be mistaken for a planning guide, or even a travel log. Instead it is a restful read, a pleasant escape into island scenery.<BR>	2002-02-14
US	49169409	R2E90XKLY4O4WF	0340639911	96804256	Highlanders: A History of the Gaels	Books	5	30	31	N	N	So much interesting information...	<BR>After reading Tranter's \\"Story of Scotland,\\" I was ready to delve deeper into Scotland's history. This work fills in many of the blanks, and does so in a way that holds my interest. There was much that I had missed, including a true grasp of the Viking culture and how it affected Scotland. I knew very little of the way the clan system worked in the isles, and how the Crown tried to control them. MacLeod explains with insight why some of the clans virtually disappeared, and others flourished. I also didn't realize that the Isle of Lewis had been almost entirely destroyed and burned. Some events that are simply alluded to in other books are explained here, so that I feel my grasp of the history has truly been improved. A highly recommended read!	2002-02-08
US	49169409	R3H2R2NXKZN2B4	1892975335	55756319	Scotland Guide, 1st Edition	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	If I were to pick up a guide and go...	<BR>When I first started reading this guide, I thought to myself, \\"This is a Let's Go guide for those whose purses have grown.\\" This book is for you if you are looking for one guide that focuses on the best restaurants and lodging, and covers even the less populated areas of Scotland. The restaurant reviews are more thorough than any I've seen. The coverage of history and sights is better than the budget-conscious guides, but less thorough than a Blue Guide. Also, this guide has one feature that I haven't found in any other Scotland guides - top lists of sights you shouldn't miss in each area. These are VERY helpful and influenced a few of my choices.<br />As far as style goes, this guide is truly inviting. The commentary is interesting and casual, almost as if you were reading a friend's thoughts. The print is also larger than other guides.<br />If you haven't spent a lot of time planning and researching your trip, this guide will meet your needs by offering a wide array of information and doing it in a readable style. Its greatest strength is in the lodging and restaurant recommendations. If you plan your lodging online, do research online, and go to grocery stores instead of restaurants (as I do), you might find that this guide is not the best one for you. But for those who like to pick up a guide and go, this one is an excellent choice.	2002-02-02
US	49169409	R1ZXD39LWVH6S0	0393322513	645187352	Blue Guide Scotland (Twelfth Edition)  (Blue Guides)	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	The Thinker's Travel Guide	<BR>We used the Blue Guides for Florence and Venice last year, and we were amazed at how much detailed information they contained about history, art, and culture. So when I began planning a long Scotland trip, I was happy to find a Blue Guide for the country.<br />Blue Guide boasts several benefits which I haven't found in other guides. The first is an appreciation for historical details. Here you will discover who actually built the castle you're visiting, who painted the portrait in the hall, when the furniture was made, along with who lived there and what they accomplished. And these details are not only there for the most famous portraits and castles, but also for those that other guidebooks don't even mention.<br />The second benefit of the Blue Guide is the city walks you'll find here. Some guidebooks approach a city based on how many famous sights it has. They list the sights and how much they cost, and you get to find your way on a map from place to place. Blue Guide takes an intelligent step away from that approach and takes you on a walk around the city. Maps are included, and you could easily deviate from the walk, but why would you want to? If you follow Blue Guide's walks, you'll read descriptions of the architecture along quaint streets, and you'll be led to all of the galleries and sights you want to see.<br />The final benefit of using a Blue Guide is never needing to buy a local guide to a gallery or museum. You know those audio guides that give you a tour of galleries? You won't have to pay for any of them, because Blue Guide will walk you through each room, painting by painting.<br />Finally, a word about the more practical details found in this guide. The maps are excellent, but they are divided into several pages. At first, they are a bit confusing. But once you adjust to the layout, they are invaluable and great reference tools. If there is a weakness in the Blue Guide, it is the availability of practical details like lodging and train schedules. With the Internet, we planned all of our lodging online. And if you're moderately flexible in your train times, trains run so often in the UK that you won't have to wait long after showing up at the station. Blue Guide does list restaurants, and my experience with those listed in the past has been very good. Overall, this is THE guide for the thinking traveler. It is the only country guide I'll be taking with me!	2002-01-17
US	49169409	R1CLJU4V2X9K64	0894717839	965869560	A Traveler's Diary	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent travel journal for longer trips	<BR>I am very picky about journals, especially when it comes to traveling. This one has more than met my expectations. It is a hardback, which will serve us well on our long trip. It is also small enough to fit into a guide bag, but large enough to write in easily. I chose to print our itinerary, emergency numbers, flight information, etc and tape it to some of the pages in the front and back of this journal. There are still plenty of pages left for a full month of journaling! I like the inspiring quotes, page quality, and the color cover design. There is also a nice ribbon marker for keeping place.<BR><BR>Overall, this journal is perfect if you're looking for plenty of freedom to design your own book. There are no special pages for hotels and sights, so you can keep records however YOU wish. Great product! Cloth on hardback will last and last.<BR>	2002-01-13
US	49169409	R3MCFZ5N4DCTAP	1860119212	78797766	EDINBURGH	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Impressive amount of information, travel-friendly size	<BR>This guide was the perfect size for our four day stay in Edinburgh, and it contained all of the information I was looking for. The four walking itineraries covered everything I had researched and wanted to see, even the Royal Botanic Gardens which are outside the city limits. There are several detailed maps and recommendations about which walks to take in which weather. There is also a chapter on the museums and galleries. And of course, there are the standard travel tips, local information, and historical background.<br />One great thing about this guide that I found in no other was a walk called \\"The Waters of Leith.\\" It ends at the gardens, but the walk there is magnificent...strolling along a river on side streets, over and under bridges. We would not have known to take this beautiful secluded route in an otherwise bustling city. And I'm so glad we did!<br />As mentioned by the other reviewer, this guide does not include a comprehensive lists of accomodations or shops. But these days, it is so convenient to find lodging online before the trip. Check out my site for Scotland travel links and tips.	2002-01-06
US	49169409	R1ZLSZZQRQKBO3	0877885311	803052591	Miracle on 10th Street and Other Christmas Writings	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lovely Christmas Reflections	<br />L'Engle has created the perfect blend of poetry, short stories, and reflections on Christmas. The page design is lovely, and each piece slows the reader to a more thoughtful pace. I feel that I will have a more complete Christmas this year as I read and re-read this collection. It's one of those purchases that you will never regret, and one of those books that I will never sell. If you already appreciate L'Engle, this is a must-have. It is a rich, spiritual, wonderful, timeless work.	2001-12-04
US	49169409	R1SJ9YDKM3T1SV	0877885311	803052591	Miracle on 10th Street and Other Christmas Writings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lovely Christmas Reflections	<br />L'Engle has created the perfect blend of poetry, short stories, and reflections on Christmas. The page design is lovely, and each piece slows the reader to a more thoughtful pace. I feel that I will have a more complete Christmas this year as I read and re-read this collection. It's one of those purchases that you will never regret, and one of those books that I will never sell. If you already appreciate L'Engle, this is a must-have. It is a rich, spiritual, wonderful, timeless work.	2001-11-23
US	49169409	R1GI940YWVRMVC	0374316848	239630555	Dance in the Desert	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I can't wait to read this one to my nephews...	<br />What makes a great children's book? It's that combination of words and pictures, action and magic, that you find in this desert story. This is such a creative and surprising tale. It starts out scary - describing all the things in the dessert at night that prowl and sneak. And then all of those creatures come to a group of travelers, one by one, and dance with a little boy. I cannot recommend this book more highly. Each page is a new adventure with a new animal, and it's the perfect length to keep your child interested.	2001-11-23
US	49169409	R30ARCAOUNCD	0789446219	830240011	Scotland (Dorling Kindersley Travel Guide)	Books	4	46	47	N	Y	Great for planning, with interesting information	<br />In planning a Scotland trip, I needed at least one resource to show me all of my options in pictures. The Eyewitness has some great photographs, as well as overviews on the culture, geography, etc. I used it as a start for my planning, but will not be taking it with me. This is not the book to purchase for lodging and transportation planning. But it served my purposes well, and seeing many of the sites and their locations helped me plan our itinerary.<br />Along with a book like this, I recommend purchasing an extensive travel guide with lodging and transportation options (Let's Go and others). Also, internet research can be a great help, as can a detailed road atlas.	2001-11-16
US	49169409	R5MKUDFV25CXV	1566491886	787808697	Castles & Ancient Monuments of Scotland	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Beautiful pages, very high quality, useful information!	<br />You will love the look and feel of this book. Stunning photographs grace virtually every page. Definitions of the different types of ancient structures, as well as a summary of different time periods in Scottish history, are provided. Opening times and entrance costs of the castles are also included. The geographic organization of attractions is perfect for travelers. <br />What I like most about this resource are the opinions and recommendations given by the author. So many travel books refuse to offer information about the quality of the site and how worthwhile a visit would be. I found that some of the castles I thought were the best (and was planning to visit) were hardly given the time of day in this book. That was because this book gives the most information about the most interesting castles and monuments. I discovered several fascinating sights that we weren't even planning to visit.<br />I give this book five stars because it offered enough information for me to change and rearrange my trip itinerary. That means that it was both thorough and helpful. Some may be disappointed, because certain castles are covered in two full pages, while others are listed with only their address, opening times, and a one-line description.	2001-11-16
US	49169409	R2NOJ724ZFL1I	1885767870	837197382	Right Behind: A Parody of Last Days Goofiness	Books	4	45	53	N	Y	OH MY!	<BR>Okay, I admit it, I read the first book in the Left Behind series. It was moderately interesting, but I can't say I was dying to read the second one. This parody is relatively short, and there were about three scenes that just made me roll on the floor! The one in the Christian bookstore was *priceless*, and the author truly captured our crazy Christian culture. There were some cute suprises in the dialogues, things that make you giggle to yourself.<br />Here you find an excellent and thoughtful critique of modern pop-Christianity all wrapped up in goofiness. You will find yourself laughing and thinking at the same time. There was so much potential in this project that I feel it didn't quite live up to. But overall, it was a joy to read, and I even read a few of the scenes out to my husband, who laughed as loud as I did. Those scenes earned this book four stars.	2001-10-18
US	49169409	R36L7P1T4Q90YQ	1897784074	208622444	The Story of Scotland	Books	5	55	55	N	N	I Can't Put it Down!	<BR>I suffered through history classes. There were so many dates, names, places, and events, that I just memorized the basic facts and moved on. Now that I am planning extensive travels in Scotland, I have the desire to learn Scottish history. But I never thought that I would enjoy reading about it so much!<br />Tranter admits that he is not a historian, and that he could never cover all of Scottish history in 200 pages. What he does, however, is make the reader interested, inquisitive, and thoughtful about the events that have molded Scotland. This story reads like a novel, so it surprises me the great overview and understanding it has given me of Scotland's long history. It also surprises me that I read several chapters in one night, and absorbed a great deal of information. I found myself discussing the issues and reasons behind events with my husband, remembering many kings and dates and personal details of the players involved.<br />If you want a place to start in understanding Scottish history, you've found it. This account covers the ancient Picts through modern times, all in a personal and interesting way. Once you read this book, you will find yourself doing more research and searching for more detailed accounts. I plan on reading this book again while in Scotland, pondering the fascinating history of the places we visit.<BR>	2001-10-17
US	49169409	R34K2JBFP49UP7	1931047006	754714759	The Bible as Told by Max McLean	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A fresh, powerful way to experience the Bible...	<BR>This set of CDs comes in an attractive black leather case. It's compact and zips up, and I plan to keep it in my car forever. The chapters are each on different tracks, so it's easy to find a particular Scripture or to go back and review. I found my set used, and it was missing a couple of CDs. I e-mailed the company, and they mailed me the CDs immediately at no cost! <BR><BR>As for the sound and reading quality, I am really amazed. At first, the accent was different and sounded a bit strange, but I quickly fell in love with it. The telling of creation is breathtaking. In the New Testament, you hear the words of Jesus as if you're one of the disciples. I can't really tell you how listening to Jesus' words in traffic is affecting my life. It mixes the eternal with the mundane in a way that changes my perception of life. It also fills my mind with godly thoughts and ideas. I find myself listening to each CD more than once; it's just that good!<BR><BR>Listening to the Word is definitely different than reading it. You hear the Bible read as the early Jews and Christians did in the synogogues. It touches different parts of you, as you get a broad overview of themes instead of a deep analysis of each verse. You will find yourself understanding more about Jesus' ministry. If you think about it, so many of His words were spoken in a short period of time. They affected those listening in a way that we may not know, since we ponder each verse. I highly recommend this purchase. It is expensive, but it is an investment that will last forever. It really is a new encounter with God.	2001-09-06
US	49169409	R7JFK5648BAHJ	0894714066	400184799	A Woman's Journal: A Blank Book With Quotes By Women (Miniature Editions)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	The best journal I've ever had...	<BR>I used this journal when I spent a semester studying in England. It has thoughtful quotes and unlined pages, as well as a nice sturdy book binding. It is taller than most journals, and it really does invite you to write inside. The cover is very attractive, and the blue cloth feels great in your hands. There is a ribbon marker, and the pages are the perfect weight. I will be purchasing journals from this company in the future, and highly recommend them! They hold up very well and have a quality look and feel.	2001-08-29
US	49169409	RCU1Y6OOF0ZP0	0385483708	494106535	Breaking the Patterns of Depression	Books	5	168	175	N	Y	THE Depression Resource (that is changing my life)	[Please read the whole review before buying the book.] While in the process of jumping through healthcare hoops to get into a therapy program, I asked my psychiatrist if there were any books or workbooks that I could start on my own. He said he knew of none, that what I really needed was therapy. Well, I'm still waiting to get into a program, but this book has been amazing! I will go into therapy prepared. I know what my problems are, and I know what I need to do to improve the way I think and feel. I am doing much of it on my own, with the help of dozens of exercises in this book.<br /><br />This resource is so educational and EMPOWERING. It describes all sorts of distortions in thinking and feeling. The exercises help you make connections between how you think and why you are depressed. What I love about Dr. Yapko is that he is never condescending, and he never accuses the depressed person of causing their own problems. He does claim that depression is learned, but never blames or intimidates. Rather, he shows that there is hope in learning new patterns.<br /><br />I have been in therapy before, and it involved rehashing feelings and experiences from my past. Dr. Yapko shows that what is more important to focus on is our process of thinking and handling events. Rehashing old experiences can just feed our depressive patterns. This explains why my last round of therapy didn't help me cope with my present problems!<br /><br />This book has filled me with hope. There is a lot of information to learn, and many new patterns to develop. But all of that gives me hope for a better future. One of the exercises in particular has really opened my eyes to why I am currently in a depression. Knowing our vulnerabilities can explain when we fall into a depression, and can also help us prevent future episodes! I can't say it enough - buy this book for yourself or for someone you love.<br /><br />FINAL NOTE: Medicine often has value and can help a person achieve a level of stability so that they can tackle the exercises and changes in this book. A severely depressed person should seek professional help and find a medication before starting this book. It could be very overwhelming for someone who is in complete despair.ey can tackle the exercises and changes in this book. A severely depressed person should seek professional help and find a medication before starting this book. It could be very overwhelming for someone who is in complete despair.	2001-08-22
US	49169409	R1IIVXV2YASM1Y	0028638409	200245307	Frommer's Scotland's Best-Loved Driving Tours	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	It will make you want to drive for hours and hours...	This was one of my best purchases for our month-long Britain adventure so far. There are 25 different driving itineraries, each complete with maps, estimated times and miles, and sights to see along the way. The color photos helped us narrow down our choices to a reasonable number of drives. They show the terrain and some of the sights on each tour, so you can pick several different ones that offer unique views and places to see.<br /><br />If you are planning on renting a car and driving in Scotland, I would suggest combining this book with a full Scotland or Britain guidebook like &quot;Let's Go.&quot; You will need full listings of places to stay, admission costs to castles and sights, and historical information about the area. Combine these two guides with a good road atlas (like AAA Britain atlas), and you'll have all of the information you need for the perfect trip.	2001-08-08
US	49169409	R2NAW7Q2CWZD7Q	0310900948	470321677	NIV Encouragement Bible	Books	5	32	32	N	N	AT LAST! A Bible with realistic helps for those who hurt...	<BR>I have been a Christian for many years, and have been through my share of Bibles. I found that some of the study and application Bibles had commentary that was so upbeat that it was almost insensitive to those who are wounded. Often the Bible is difficult for people to read when they are struggling with emotional issues. Sometimes the words seem so harsh, or the promises so lofty, that hurting Christians feel alienated. I found this Bible by searching for a Bible that might minister to me in my depression. Instead of perky little notes in the margins, I needed realistic, heartfelt encouragement.<BR><BR>Joni and the Draveckys edited this NIV Bible. Joni and Dave have both been through major physical and emotional suffering. They have the experience that gives them credibility. I am willing to read and ponder what they say, because I know they have been in the depths. I know that if they can be encouraged, I can too. If they can make sense out of their tragedies, I can too. There are encouragement notes and quotes on every single page of this Bible! There are also entire sections devoted to questions that suffering people wrestle with - and Scripture references to offer some answers.<BR><BR>But this Bible does not offer simple answers to difficult questions. It offers hope tempered with experience of tragedy. It offers just what the wounded, tired soul needs. THANK YOU Joni, Dave, and all of the rest who contributed to this beautiful gift. I will cherish it for years and years.<BR><BR>There is also a burgundy leather edition of this Bible with gold edges available. It's a lovely trasure. The print is the perfect size, and the notes on the sides are illustrated with peaceful black and white nature scenes.<BR><BR>I give this Bible my highest recommendation. It could not have been produced at a better time for me! It would be the perfect give for a friend or family member who is going through a difficult time. It would also be great for a Christian who has the gift of encouraging others. It will arm you with powerful words, stories, and verses for friends who suffer. You will not regret this purchase!	2001-07-31
US	49169409	ROJEKN0RW2FPJ	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	If you need a laugh...	Oh, we laughed through this book! My husband would read a letter to me, and it was hard for him to keep a straight face. If you have any imagination whatsoever, you will be picturing the most *ridiculous* things as you read! It is enough to make your sides hurt.  After a while, the letters become a bit predictable; that's why the book gets four stars from me. But it is so worth the money! Even the predictable letters have some sort of twist in them. We bought the second book after reading this one. Definite fun!	2001-04-20
US	49169409	R1ZY3U7ZVJC5TV	0310218926	253872632	Paul:  A Novel	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	WOW, I'd like to give this one SIX STARS	<BR>I finished this book several days ago and have been pondering how to describe it.   It is surprising that another reviewer was so critical of Wangerin's portrayal of Paul.  Paul wrote much about suffering and weakness, and about glorying in Christ alone.  This book gives some plausible reasons why he did so.  It completely changed my view of Paul.<br />As a girl who grew up knowing Christ, Paul sometimes baffled me.  In fact, he sometimes offended me.  I thought he had a view of women that painted us inferior...I remember as a teenager wrestling with his words and thinking of God's negative view of me!  So Paul has not always been beloved in my life.<br />That is why I am genuinely thankful for this novel.  It opened my eyes to the passion of Paul.  It made me see the apostles and their writings in a living, breathing context.  I know that this book is fiction, and I am sure that there are parts of it that are complete fiction.  But now I can read the New Testament as a part of an amazing story.  Instead of reading a passage and immediately looking for things that apply to me, I am more able to read it as the powerful history that it is.  I don't see Paul as preaching at me, but as living for the same Spirit who is in me.  I see him as a brother heeding an amazing calling - the same calling that I have.  And the way that he lived for that calling is so inspiring.  The way he impacted the church, even though he suffered greatly, is an example for us.<br />Wangerin used Bible verses and references throughout this novel.  Through the events that unfold, he shows all of the drama and passion that were behind the words.  We see the great conflicts of the day that inspired Paul's words.<br />Buy this book!  You will want to read it more than once.  The writing style is fascinating, but not too complex for the average reader.  I just can't recommend it enough, especially for those who have read a lot of Scripture and could use a refreshing read.  It will make you wantto pull out your Bible and read more!  I have even purchased two more of Wangerin's books because of this one's impact.  Oh, and God used this book to help me in a time of despair.  It would be great for a depressed Christian who is easily discouraged when reading Scripture.  It is encouraging and inspiring, and it made me remember why I love the Lord and Scripture so much.	2001-04-19
US	49169409	R3DH67RM8N35QN	0310218926	512021648	Paul:  A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	WOW, I'd like to give this one SIX STARS	I finished this book several days ago and have been pondering how to describe it.  It is surprising that another reviewer was so critical of Wangerin's portrayal of Paul.  Paul wrote much about suffering and weakness, and about glorying in Christ alone.  This book gives some plausible reasons why he did so.  It completely changed my view of Paul.<br />As a girl who grew up knowing Christ, Paul sometimes baffled me.  In fact, he sometimes offended me.  I thought he had a view of women that painted us inferior...I remember as a teenager wrestling with his words and thinking of God's negative view of me!  So Paul has not always been beloved in my life.<br />That is why I am genuinely thankful for this novel.  It opened my eyes to the passion of Paul.  It made me see the apostles and their writings in a living, breathing context.  I know that this book is fiction, and I am sure that there are parts of it that are complete fiction.  But now I can read the New Testament as a part of an amazing story.  Instead of reading a passage and immediately looking for things that apply to me, I am more able to read it as the powerful history that it is.  I don't see Paul as preaching at me, but as living for the same Spirit who is in me.  I see him as a brother heeding an amazing calling - the same calling that I have.  And the way that he lived for that calling is so inspiring.  The way he impacted the church, even though he suffered greatly, is an example for us.<br />Wangerin used Bible verses and references throughout this novel.  Through the events that unfold, he shows all of the drama and passion that were behind the words.  We see the great conflicts of the day that inspired Paul's words.<br />Buy this book!  You will want to read it more than once.  The writing style is fascinating, but not too complex for the average reader.  I just can't recommend it enough, especially for those who have read a lot of Scripture and could use a refreshing read.  It will make you want to pull out your Bible and read more!  I have even purchased two more of Wangerin's books because of this one's impact.  Oh, and God used this book to help me in a time of despair.  It would be great for a depressed Christian who is easily discouraged when reading Scripture.  It is encouraging and inspiring, and it made me remember why I love the Lord and Scripture so much.to pull out your Bible and read more!  I have even purchased two more of Wangerin's books because of this one's impact.  Oh, and God used this book to help me in a time of despair.  It would be great for a depressed Christian who is easily discouraged when reading Scripture.  It is encouraging and inspiring, and it made me remember why I love the Lord and Scripture so much.	2001-04-19
US	49169409	R23J9X1C6VQ6QQ	0385236824	977193384	Reaching Out: The Three Movements of the Spiritual Life	Books	5	162	164	N	N	A lifeline for the weary Christian - refreshing and renewing	<BR>This is my second taste of Nouwen, and it has been even better than the first (&quot;The Inner Voice of Love&quot;).  This book is a valuable component of the amazing turnaround of my depression.<br />Some Christians say that when you find yourself burnt out and needy, you should go back to the basics.  They offer no new solutions, and point you back to daily quiet times and church attendance and service.  But here is a book that offers a completely new and refreshing look at God and life.  It offers a chance to slow down, to deal with your own heart and soul before rushing to &quot;perform&quot; as a Christian should.  Nouwen shows that only when we take time to love and hear ourselves, to become comfortable with who we are and be content with solitute, only after those steps are taken can we reach out to others in true love.  We simply must love ourselves and deal with our hurts and needs before we can help and learn from others.<br />We often reach out to others when we are hurting.  We are afraid to deal alone with our needs.  We are desperately seeking someone or something to drown out our own voice, to give us new answers.  We watch television, listen to music, read books, socialize.  This book points us back into ourselves.  For we are indeed God's children, and the Spirit is in us.  When we learn to be still, we can offer that very stillness and peace to others.  We can commune with God in prayer.  We can break the illusions of business, of our circumstance ruling us.  And we can once again be in touch with ourselves, others, and our God.  <br />This is a life-changing, pain-shattering book.  In these pages, we meet the Healer, the God who loves us infinitely and takes the time to fill us up and heal our wounds.  We meet the God who gives us the peace to live a centered life, not a chaotic one.	2001-04-03
US	49169409	R3MFMGTZZF9JLQ	2831563445	201806617	Berlitz Italian CD Pack	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Talk about a crash course - get ready to flip those pages!!!	<BR>I bought the audio cassette version of this guide that comes with a phrasebook. The nice feature is that the phrasebook has sections that are organized by color. So you can look to blue (example) to find vocabulary while you're at a restauarant, red when you're at a shop, etc. Hang onto the phrasebook while on your trip - the only thing that you will definitely need it for is the restaurants. Many of the best restaurants have authentic dishes that often have no English description. <br />The problem is that the audio guide goes so fast that I found myself flipping pages to see where the speakers words were. You will not hear all of the vocabulary (even the most important basic words) spoken on the cassette or cd. So you may not understand the basics of pronunciation and accent. This is a definite crash course. <br />If you have less than a month until your trip, and if you would like to buy a phrasebook with a bit of proununciation guidance, this is for you. After you've finished the audio guide, you will be relatively familiar with the color-coded sections. This makes the phrasebook easier to use. However, I didn't have the patience to finish the audioguide, because it was fast and hard to follow. I tossed the phrasebook after three days on the trip, because most Italians know some English, and I had learned some Italian from a different tape set. See my other review for a better shot at learning some Italian!	2001-03-13
US	49169409	R2R3XA57VXDJ78	0764561367	194301481	Frommer's Italy 2001	Books	3	41	43	N	N	This guide covers the whole country, and it's BIG	<br />If you are planning a trip with only a couple of major stops, this isn't the right guide for you.  It's very thick and very condensed.  The maps, although a nice book size, may not help you all that much getting around in a city.  This is a guide for someone who has the time to travel all around Italy (I envy those people!).  For those of us who are going to Venice and Florence, individual city guides have much more specific information and better maps.  The Blue Guides are perfect for history, art, and culture (great walking tours).  Most of the specifics for planning can now be found on the Internet, instead of in a bulky guide.  But if you need a more planning oriented guide of only a city or two, try the Access Guides.  They have great maps of each neighborhood of a city, along with hotel, restaurant, and sight-seeing tips.	2001-02-06
US	49169409	R2TRH3GDYVNWHZ	0393318710	725323811	Blue Guide Florence (7th ed)	Books	4	32	33	N	N	What sort of guide do you need?	If you are looking for a guide that will help you \\"narrow down\\" the choices of sights to see in Florence, this one is not for you. If you are looking for extensive lists and reviews of hotels, again this is not for you. Finally, if you're looking for detailed restauraunt information, you won't find it here. Basically, this guide is not a planning guide. I have used the Internet for most of my planning (e-mail me if you need some help finding some great sites MarySorens@yahoo.com).<br />What this guide does have to offer is an amazing amount of cultural, historic, and artistic information in a very packable sized guide. This will be the guide to read when you are doing your own tours of Florence. It will tell you far more than any tour guide would.<br />This guide also has map pages included. At first they are difficult to read and understand. But once you get the hang of them, you will love them. They are very detailed, and who wants to be seen walking around a city with a two foot map in front of their face?? <br />The blue guide also gets you oriented to the city. Even if you don't use the Blue Guide's walks, they will show you which attractions are grouped together and will help you plan your routes (this is the one sense in which this guide works for planning). I haven't left yet,and my guide looks worn!<br />In conclusion, I am putting together my own itinerary that will contain details like restaurant and hotel addresses. And then this will be the only guidebook that I take with me to Florence. And I am looking forward to reading it and absorbing as much of the city as possible! If you are remotely interested in history and art and more, you will not regret purchasing this guide. I have used many guidebooks for trips, and this one is the most informative and educated.	2001-02-06
US	49169409	RWDVRNRYVXPH4	0062772228	358626194	Access Florence Venice: Plus Tuscany and the Veneto (ACCESS FLORENCE VENICE MILAN)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	This one will go with me....	<br />This guide is a keeper, if only for the great maps!  Arranged by neighborhood, I can see myself needing them when I'm in Italy.  Also, I like the &quot;day-trips&quot; section for each city.  Other city guides don't have this information, and it's really helpful for that day out.  The guide is a bit long, so you have to make sure that your day trip bag is large enough for it.<br />What this guide does lack is depth - historical, artistic depth.  If you are traveling in Venice or Florence, it is just essential that you know about what you're seeing.  That's part of why we go to these amazing historic sites.  I would suggest traveling with a Blue Guide for each city that you visit.  They are a great packing size, and they offer so much more descriptive information.  They don't offer too much practical information, so that's why I'll be taking the Access Guide with me too.	2001-02-06
US	49169409	R2ZB4F7ACHDPAY	0811824977	157571881	Destinations: A Travel Journal	Books	5	87	90	N	Y	Very nice journal, organized, feels and looks great!	<br />When I first looked at this journal in the box, I was afraid that it would have the feel of vinyl.  But it has a great leather feel, not exactly soft, but smooth with a bit of texture.  The red is not a fire engine red, but it's closer to a cherry color.  And the journal could be used by a man or woman (there is nothing especially feminine about it).  <br />The pages are organized into different sections - pages for an itinerary, for flight and hotel information, for information about shops and sights that you see, as well as about 30 additional lined pages for events and reviews. There are also pages in the back on which to tape your tickets and momentos. I thought that was a neat idea.<br />I wouldn't say that the travel information included is very helpful, at least not for my Italy trip.  But the journal is the perfect size for a 2 week trip, maybe even up to a four week trip.  At the end of the journey, it will be a very nice keepsake! I'm looking forward to using it.  I'm also purchasing one for my mother.  The only drawback to this journal is that there is no ribbon bookmark.	2001-02-06
US	49169409	R37PLTU7KU5G74	0393318052	117979269	Blue Guide Venice (Blue Guides Series)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An excellent guide, but it only meets certain travel needs..	<br />If you are looking for a guide that will help you &quot;narrow down&quot; the choices of sights to see in Venice, this one is not for you.  If you are looking for extensive lists and reviews of hotels, again this is not for you.  Finally, if you're looking for detailed restauraunt information, you won't find it here.  Basically, this guide is not a planning guide.  I have used the Internet for most of my planning (e-mail me if you need some help finding some great sites MarySorens@hotmail.com).<br />What this guide does have to offer is an amazing amount of cultural, historic, and artistic information in a very packable sized guide.  This will be the guide to read when you are doing your own tours of Venice.  It will tell you far more than any tour guide would.<br />This guide also has map pages included.  At first they are difficult to read and understand.  But once you get the hang of them, you will love them.  They are very detailed, and who wants to be seen walking around a city with a two foot map in their face??  <br />The blue guide also gets you oriented to the city.  Even if you don't use the Blue Guide's walks, they will show you which attractions are grouped together and will help you plan your routes (this is the one sense in which this guide works for planning).  I haven't left yet,and my guide looks worn!<br />In conclusion, I am putting together my own itinerary that will contain details like restaurant and hotel addresses.  And then this will be the only guidebook that I take with me to Venice.  And I am looking forward to reading it and absorbing as much of the city as possible!  If you are remotely interested in history and art and more, you will not regret purchasing this guide.  I have used many guidebooks for trips, and the Blue Guides are the most informative and educated.	2001-02-06
US	49169409	RHMFOMYE0XKIU	1884807305	709539037	Travel Journal: Photo Album & Journal	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	What a treasure!	<br />This is definitely a feminine travel album.  Each page is BEAUTIFULLY decorated with designs around the edges (painted flowers, leaves, etc), but is not fussy or cluttered.  There are thick, quality, gold-lined pages which include:<br />Two pages for travel itinerary<BR>One Page for Hotels and One for Restuarants<BR>Two pages for places to remember<BR>Three pages for travel notes<BR>One page for museums and events<BR>One pages for points of special interest<BR>One page for fond memories<BR>One page for Names and Addresses.<br />There is a lovely painting near the beginning of the book and one at the start of the photo section (looks like a venice scene in soft colors).   Then there are seven pages for photos.  Each is decorated on both sides and can have two pictures slipped into it.  The pages make gorgeous &quot;frames&quot; and all sorts of romantic flowers around the photo slots (some slots are oval, some square, and I think all will hold a 4X6 photo).  Finally, the album closes with a ribbon tie and comes in a matching box.<br />I wouldn't suggest using this album on your trip (it's SO nice!).  What I plan to do is keep a comprehensive journal while traveling.  Then I'll come home and pick the best parts of my journal, along with my best photos, and create an album full of memories.  Since my mother is also going on our trip, I bought a journal for her and plan to fill it in and give it as a gift.<br />Based on this book alone, I would recommend any journal/album by Nancy C. Akmon and Roni Akmon.  If you absolutely cannot stand the colors orange and brick red, you might want to think twice about this piece.  The cover has minimal orange, but the back is a funny pattern of orange and red.  It doesn't come close to the romantic interior, but the interior made the purchase well worth it for me.	2001-02-04
US	49169409	R1N3CTZRGKVA84	0841620369	487055408	Insight Venice Fleximap (Insight Fleximaps)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent for planning	<br />This map is quite detailed, and it includes street listings if you are unable to find a spot.  I like that it's laminated, and it has useful facts about the location, where to get information, etc.  <br />The only drawback is that this map is FULL SIZE.  Basically, I am enjoying using it for planning, but I can't picture myself walking around the streets of Venice holding a huge map in front of me.  It's SO touristy.  I have a Venice Blue Guide that has map pages in the back.  Although not as nice, they are more useful and discreet.  I would suggest picking up one of each, and you should be set!	2001-02-04
US	49169409	R7KK7C5LZ50DB	0841620644	175621478	Insight Florence Fleximap (Insight Fleximaps)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another Great Map for Planning	<br />This map is quite detailed, and it includes street listings if you are unable to find a spot.  I like that it's laminated, and it has useful facts about the location, where to get information, etc.  <br />The only drawback is that this map is FULL SIZE.  Basically, I am enjoying using it for planning, but I can't picture myself walking around the streets of Florence holding a huge map in front of me.  It's SO touristy.  I have a Florence Blue Guide that has map pages in the back.  Although not as nice, they are more useful and discreet.  I would suggest picking up one of each, and you should be set!	2001-02-04
US	49169409	R2YBGP1182MQA1	0877889317	46662552	The Weather of the Heart (Wheaton Literary)	Books	5	65	65	N	N	What a find!	<BR>It took me a while to discover that Ms. L'Engle has published two books of poetry.  I loved her first as a child, when my mind was fascinated by supernatural wonders in time and space.   Recently I discovered her adult novels, and finally this book of poetry.<br />This poetry covers a range of topics, and many of the poems cover Bible stories and Biblical themes.  But it is not sing-songy, watered-down, cliche, or boring by any means.  You'll see the world through the eyes of a parrot (and will be taught something of humanity in that poem) and through the eyes of the mother of Jesus.  The poetic devices are used beautifully, especially internal rhyme, rhythm, and alliteration.  There are some surprises here.  A couple of the poems are very brief (only five short lines), and you'll be surprised how much a few words can say.  I found myself laughing out loud several times.  I kept going over to my husband and insisting that I must read him another poem.<br />This poetry has encouraged me to continue writing myself.  I am hoping to learn through osmosis here, so I am reading these works over and over again.  They teach so much about form, style, vocabulary, and wit.  There are unsuspected twists and so many different subjects here.  Find this book if you enjoy L'Engle or if you enjoy excellent poetry!  Many of these poems will be like water for your soul, the cold refreshing water of depth, love, and laughter.	2001-01-10
US	49169409	R1PCSZVL4PDTNJ	0374517835	902219451	A Severed Wasp: A Novel	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The BEST book I've read in a LONG time....	<BR>When I saw &quot;The Small Rain&quot; in the bookstore a while back, I was so excited to see that Madeleine L'Engle has written adult novels.  I instantly purchased it and truly enjoyed it.  Then I bought this one, and I cannot tell you how MUCH I loved this novel.  From start to finish it held my attention.  The reader learns of Katherine's past in bits and pieces throughout the book - through her dreams, thoughts, and conversations.  L'Engle skillfully takes us from the past to the present in an incredibly smooth way.  It's a treat - you never know where you will be next.  Will it be a past heartache, a present dilemma, a future concert?  Who is after her now, and does the current mystery have something to do with the past that haunts her?  <br /><br />So many interesting issues are packed into this novel, and so much suspense too!  When I was young, I was filled with wonder when I read L'Engle's &quot;Wrinkle in Time.&quot;  In a similar way, this book filled me with wonder about the nature of life - it's drastic ups and downs.  It teaches just what a person can endure and what a person can accomplish despite tragedy and loss.  There is hope in Katherine, and that hope is even more powerful when the reader discovers what has happened to her since she was young in &quot;The Small Rain.&quot;  And as a young adult, this novel actually made me thing of my older years in a whole new way.  They will be a time of rest, reflection, hope, and warm bubble baths.  I look forward to getting to the point where I have lived a complete life, yet still have some living left to do.  I had never thought this way before.<br /><br />I give this novel my highest recommendation.  I couldn't stop reading but didn't want the story to end.  The book was a friend at my bedside table, one that I curled up with while sipping herbal tea.  It just doesn't get better than this.	2000-12-17
US	49169409	RO5XCG3GQQKJK	0849952735	267552183	The Glory of Christmas	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Beautiful gift...even to yourself	<BR>I bought this book on sale for several people, and I didn't know exactly what to expect.  When I received it, I started reading and couldn't stop.  I got to the point of tears (good ones) several times!  So I am keeping one for myself and ordering an extra.  This is just a wonderful book about the true meaning of Christmas - the salvation, power, and love of God for mankind.  Each short story or reflection is true as well as touching, and the illustrations are warm and inviting.  I am giving this book as a gift to several friends who have been Christians for a long time, and also to a friend who is a new Christian.  It will be meaningful for all of them, so it really is a great gift.  I look forward to pulling this book out each Christmas and enjoying the stories over and over again.	2000-11-22
US	49169409	R2MKU8O1IVBPW4	0062517090	716567799	Ruthless Trust: The Ragamuffin's Path to God	Books	4	107	111	N	Y	How then do we live???	<BR>Most people who are aquainted with Brennan Manning have read The Ragamuffin Gospel.  The Ragamuffin Gospel showers us with the love of God, in ways that most of us have never experienced before.  In the Ragamuffin Gospel, we begin to accept ourselves, but more importantly, to accept that God truly does love and accept us as we are.<BR><BR>But then what?  I know that I am loved by God, and I am beginning to love myself a little because of that fact.  But what do I do when darkness overtakes my life, when unjust things happen, or when I become apathetic about the Christian life?  This book sends us deeper into the world of a loving God, deeper into the involvement of that God in our lives.  One of the main lessons I have taken from it is that if I am to trust God when things get difficult, I need to focus on His attributes daily when things are going well.  The Word tells us in so many ways that God loves, protects, and sustains us, that He is attentive and aware of our needs and hardships.  This book will get you thinking more about the attributes of your God.<BR><BR>Manning writes that we cannot will ourselves to trust God.  Trusting God comes from years of learning of Him, of seeing Him act, and of reading His Word.  This kind of trust is ruthless, because we begin to trust God even when the storms overtake us.  It's ruthless because it appears to be crazy, and we may even feel crazy when we trust God radically.<BR><BR>It took me a while to get into this book.  Some points seem overemphasized and go on for pages, but they are effective in the end.  The concepts in this book will ring true in your spirit.  You probably know them, but have never put them into words.  Most of us have never been challenged to develop this kind of trust, but we have been slowly developing it as a result of our relationship with God.  This book shows us what it looks like to have a living, active trust in loving Abba.  It challenges us to grow faster and deeper towards abandon to that &quot;reckless raging fury&quot; of which Rich Mullins sings.	2000-11-14
US	49169409	R2GZRNV225AWWO	0385483481	665268689	The Inner Voice of Love: A Journey Through Anguish to Freedom	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Absolutely Amazing, and So Helpful....	<BR>As someone who suffers with depression and wrestles with spiritual issues, this book has touched me like no other.  It took me several days just to get past page three.  Each small meditation is an incredible truth that could drastically change a life.<BR><BR>I will be reading and re-reading these thoughts until they are ingrained in me, until I can call them to my mind and work them out in my life.  These reflections will ring true in your heart, and they will call to your long-lost inner voice of love and guidance.  Spiritual tensions make sense here, they have a place, an ordered place in personal life.<BR><BR>I struggle with the sadness and the promise of joy; I struggle with the darkness and the light, with my needs and the Giver.  And this book brings discordant parts of our lives into harmony with one another.  It helps me make sense of my life and myself.  And that is a true gift.	2000-11-09
US	49169409	R15NTCMGVIXATJ	031035451X	496991949	Fearfully and Wonderfully Made	Books	5	66	66	N	N	Fascinating Case for Design in the World!	<BR>If you're like me, you have occasionally wondered at the human body.  You might have marveled at the birth of a newborn, or wondered how in the world all of your parts work together so well.  I am NOT a biology person.  I took one course of biology in high school, and that was plenty for me.  But this book is *fascinating*.  It tells you things about yourself that you would have never guessed.  It makes an amazing case for a Creator who uses a specific design in human beings.  It makes the case so well that I was overwhelmed at times, gasped, and told whoever happened to be in the room what I had just read.<BR><BR>This book will make you much more confident in your belief in a Creator.  It will give you amazing real-life facts that back up the Biblical ones.  I have not been the same since reading this book several years ago.  I still remember the impact it made on me, and I can still share with others fervently that there is design here.  And the design cannot be argued.  If you think it can be, read this book.	2000-11-07
US	49169409	R27XOMWRXDADEH	0879461845	39144598	Protect Us from All Anxiety: Meditations for the Depressed (Solace for Survivors)	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	Comfort and Rest for the Suffering	<BR>This book is for those who have been thrown into chaos, doubt, and darkness by depression.  It would also be enlightening for someone who has never dealt with depression but would like to understand it better.  These meditations are short and appear to be simple.  But if you are struggling with depression, they will open the floodgates of emotion, and they will remind you that you are not alone.  <BR><BR>Priest Burke describes candidly many of the lonely difficulties that I have had in depression.  He confronts his demons in this book; and in doing so, he helps me to confront mine.  He learns to accept himself in these journal entries, and he encourages me to accept myself as well.  Even in the darkest moments of depression, this book shows that there is light.  Even the sketches are beautiful and sad at the same time.  There is no easy cure found here, but there is so much more than that.  I feel peace when someone else has the courage to voice the terrifying thoughts that come with depression.  I am encouraged when I hear a godly man calling depression what it is - an illness.  I am strengthened when I see him taking the steps to be healthy and whole.<BR><BR>One thing that I love about this book is its order and organization.  It takes the reader through the process of healing slowly.  The reader is not bombarded with too much information at once (or forced to deal with their issues all at once time, or told to have hope when they have none).  The setup of the book is perfect for reading a couple of pages a day and then praying about those pages (short prayers are included).  The book was obviously written and organized with respect for each individual's personal pain and process.  Sometimes a meditation will leave the reader to discern its importance and meaning. Thus, these meditations go beyond all of the simplistic self-help guides out there and take the reader to a deeper level, their own personal level.<BR><BR>I don't know how I stumbled across this book, but I am so glad that I did.  I've read it once through and am now reading it again.  It is challenging me not to give up on healing.  It is challenging me not to give up on my God or myself.  This is the best work I have read on depression yet.	2000-10-24
US	49169409	R3O9M5EUQJ2RO	0374519129	555380312	The Small Rain: A Novel	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Beautifully written and thought-provoking	I could hardly put this novel down and finished it in three days.  I appreciate Madeleine L'Engle for her realistic plot and amazing descriptions of life.  She surprised me with her treatment of controversial issues...she really does color outside of the lines of popular Christian art.  Madeleine widens my horizons, opens my eyes to experiences that are different than my own.  She is a true artist who shows us all of the story, the good and the bad, without passing judgement.  This made me, the reader, feel much more involved in the story.  I found myself wrestling with issues without simply accepting the writer's judgements of them.<BR><BR>Even though Katherine's life is tragic, the reader finds herself relating to Katherine's feelings and needs.  I could relate to Katherine's naive thoughts and actions, and her growing into understanding of others and herself.  This is a beautiful growing-up story, one that is so well-written that it deserves praise.	2000-10-21
US	49169409	R2FZYJ1Y1YLC4V	0310595789	909605048	False Assumptions: Relief from Twelve Christian Beliefs That Can Drive You Crazy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Simple, refreshing, needed for most Christians!	This book is a great relief for many of us Christians who have been bogged down in all of the crazy things that other Christians say and expect.  We all have problems, but some well-meaning Christians teach us that our problems are because we are not spiritual enough.  Or they tell us that we just need to &quot;give them to God.&quot;  Or they say that we are selfish to get our needs met.  Or they tell us just to leave the past behind.  All of these cliches can be harmful and misleading.<br /><br />This book would be especially refreshing for someone who has been involved in a very legalistic or spirit-filled church.  It shows that Christianity is not a quick-fix for our lives.  And it shows that if we are to be honest, respectable people, we need to deal with our issues instead of running from them or stuffing them under the pews.	2000-10-21
US	49169409	R2KATJBB4UYFIB	0310205670	820673996	Changes That Heal	Books	5	89	98	N	N	Insightful, considerate, and full of hope....	The difference between Dr. Cloud and some other Christians writers in this  field is that he is so positive.  He doesn't condemn people for suffering  and struggling.  He just prods us on to godliness and to dealing with the  root issues of our symptoms.  He will help you see what has caused your  issues, what your issues truly are, and how those issues relate to the  &quot;symptoms&quot; that you experience (depression, anxiety, etc).  He  gives constructive steps toward becoming a more whole and healthy person.   I plan to listen to these tapes again and again.	2000-08-29
US	49169409	R15TE0J27AN7R2	0805421351	261396480	Rich Mullins: An Arrow Pointing to Heaven	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Update...	I've finished this book, and all of the chapters were just as excellent as  the first three.  Reading this book is like seeing snapshots of a life  lived according to &quot;The Ragamuffin Gospel&quot; by Brennan Manning.   The book enforces all of the same points (God's unending grace and love),  but with real-life examples and depth.  It made me realize that God is much  more accepting and forgiving of me than I am, so it has given me something  to work on.  It would be a great gift for someone who is not too familiar  with Rich Mullins, because it has a cd with a song for each chapter.  This  book is a must for the Christian collection.  I will read it many times!	2000-08-26
US	49169409	R1GOSWNLZF5R79	0310203260	632862017	How to Win Over Depression	Books	2	78	87	N	N	Wish it were this simple...	In short, this book is not the answer for everyone.  I wish it was.  The  premise in this book is that everyone has difficulties, and that depression  is basically choosing to have self-pity about one's difficulties.  I agree  that a depressed person (like myself) is often self-consumed.  But while  depression can definitely be caused or contributed to by self-pity, there  are other causes.<br />Depression can be very complex and can stem from truly  *damaged* emotional and mental processes.  If a person has been in a  difficult situation for years, especially formative years, they may have  picked up many wounds and harmful mental processes along the way.  It can  take years of counseling to learn to think and feel in a healthy way.  In  other words, a wound is a wound.  Being wounded is not a sin.  Wounds need  *medicine*, and the more severe the wound, the more medicine it may need.   The medicine for depression can be spiritual counseling, psychological  counseling, medication, or a combination.  <br />We cannot fix a damaged arm  by confessing that the damage is a sin.  We cannot fix wounded mental  processes, crippled self-image by focusing more on our sinfulness.  If you  know that you're a sinner and you have a growing relationship with God, and  you still deal with wounds and depression, I suggest trying a book by Henry  Cloud.  He is realistic in helping people deal with past wounds, experience  fully God's love and acceptance, and move on.	2000-08-26
US	49169409	RDOKSM8RRGKIO	0829705155	826593243	Cmo vencer la depresin	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Wish it were this simple...	In short, this book is not the answer for everyone.  I wish it was.  The  premise in this book is that everyone has difficulties, and that depression  is basically choosing to have self-pity about one's difficulties.  I agree  that a depressed person (like myself) is often self-consumed.  But while  depression can definitely be caused or contributed to by self-pity, there  are other causes.<br />Depression can be very complex and can stem from truly  *damaged* emotional and mental processes.  If a person has been in a  difficult situation for years, especially formative years, they may have  picked up many wounds and harmful mental processes along the way.  It can  take years of counseling to learn to think and feel in a healthy way.  In  other words, a wound is a wound.  Being wounded is not a sin.  Wounds need  *medicine*, and the more severe the wound, the more medicine it may need.  The medicine for depression can be spiritual counseling, psychological  counseling, medication, or a combination.<br />We cannot fix a damaged arm  by confessing that the damage is a sin.  We cannot fix wounded mental  processes, crippled self-image by focusing more on our sinfulness.  If you  know that you're a sinner and you have a growing relationship with God, and  you still deal with wounds and depression, I suggest trying a book by Henry  Cloud.  He is realistic in helping people deal with past wounds, experience  fully God's love and acceptance, and move on.	2000-08-26
US	49169409	R2W8GE3SHIN01Z	0805421351	261396480	Rich Mullins: An Arrow Pointing to Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Captivating, Deepening, Challenging...	I have only read three chapters of this book so far.  I immediately  realized that I have to start all over and read SLOWLY and THINK as I read.   I'm planning a spiritual retreat of sorts, and I'm going to focus on one  chapter each evening.  In one night of hurried reading (just because I was  so excited to have this book in my hands), I was challenged in so many  ways.  I cannot wait to dive in.  I want to see what God was teaching Rich,  because God was working so mightily through Him.  This book will mean a lot  to Christians who have struggles and pain that they need to deal with.  It  has already made me feel better about who I am and about how loving God is.	2000-08-19
