US	49173158	R94G241YYYBXE	1563089904	217595791	Library and Information Center Management, 6th Edition (Library and Information Science Text Series)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Required reading	Dull reading is not helped by repetitive statements in this management textbook.  Stueart and Moran add to textbooks' reputation for dullness and difficult reading.  The authors give long definitions for terms that must already be understood by a large portion of the population, but use specialized terms long before an explanation is given in the text.  One can only hope that there are better management textbooks and that most professors choose those.	2005-09-17
US	49173158	R2OM5C3WMXDL1A	1582972958	750259337	The Writer's Digest Character Naming Sourcebook	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	A good resource	Many writers have several name books on their shelves, mostly baby name books, which are the most available.  Many of these are good, but are divided between girls' and boys' names, then are listed alphabetically.  In Kenyon's book, the names are organized by origin, then male/female, then alphabetically.  This 2nd edition has been expanded, although meanings of the names are short, sometimes of no value at all.  Although this book will fill most needs, having other name books would not be amiss.  Although, one might get by with fewer once this one is added to the shelves.	2005-09-17
US	49173158	R1Y9VAAF7BWHA3	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I almost waited too long	Like others who have reviewed this book recently, I was never assigned this book to read in school.  And like many readers, I usually bypassed it.  The classics were most often requried reading in school, and too often were more than difficult to get through.  However, I had seen the movie starring Gregory Peck and agreed with recent polls that it is one of the best ever made.  Given that the books are usually better than the movies, I finally succumbed to my own curiosity and picked up a copy.  My very literate friends were surprised that I'd never read it before. <br /> <br />As is customary with books written decades ago, this one starts slowly, builds slowly, sometimes seems even plodding.  But as the story unfolds, the reader learns about the characters, many of them, primary or secondary, even background.  No character is less than fully developed.  No incident is trivial. <br /> <br />Placed in a small southern town, life is very nearly ideal for children growing up and going to school.  But even in such a venue, evil can lurk in the shadows, as Jem, Scout, and their friend Dill discover.  There are ancient mysteries, secrets, and people who aren't quite who they seem to be.  Others are exactly who they seem to be, like Atticus, gentle, intelligent, sometimes feeling old, but never compromising his principles.  His son, Jem, beginning to feel less like a child.  Daughter Scout, not quite the lady her aunt Alexandra wants her to be.  Dill, their best friend who comes every summer to stay with his aunt.  Most of all, Boo Radley, the recluse, whom the children would give almost anything to see. <br /> <br />Every word, every scene, every character makes this a most readable book.  It is timeless and a joy.	2005-07-03
US	49173158	R1JNKICHAWG0H8	0609608428	244999736	If I Live to Be 100: Lessons from the Centenarians	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A worthy subject	Many people probably think it would be wonderful to live to be 100.  That's a nice long span of years and perhaps one could do everything we would like to do.  If we're healthy enough.  If we're still interested in doing those things.  The older we get, however, the less think we can count on being able. <br /> <br />In her introduction to this book, Neenah Ellis says she always believed she would live to be 100.  Given the opportunity to interview centenarians for the radio, she jumped at it.  Learning from the people who know what it's like to be that old and how to get there, should be a wonderful experience.  And maybe it was. <br /> <br />What Ellis says she did learn was how to listen.  At first, she tried to force the conversations.  That seems to have rarely worked.  She wasn't getting what she wanted from the people.  How could she do that?  In the end, what she often got wasn't what she expected, but something even more valuable.  She gained friends, wisdom perhaps, and a view of the world through older eyes.  What the reader gets is much less. <br /> <br />It is interesting to hear about what these people have seen in the century of life.  But that's a rare commodity.  It's interesting to see how some are still clear-headed and even physically capable, but not all are.  People who have lived so long should be honored and some of her inteviewees are.  Most are taken care of by people who love them, and that's nice to read.  However, there is no cohesiveness in this narrative.  And no apparent purpose.  The stories are badly linked and there's little understandable transition between one story and another.  I fear the reader will actually learn very little, either about this group of people or about him or herself.  And they will learn even less about what Ellis was trying to achieve in writing this book.	2005-06-12
US	49173158	R1JKJYQ25RI9E3	1400042127	100769891	French Women Don't Get Fat: The Secret of Eating for Pleasure	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Elegant and non-stressful	Mireille Guiliano has written one of the most encouraging \\"diet\\" books on the market.  Not just a diet book, her French regimen for a healthful lifestyle makes sense in an elegant and non-stressful way.  Not that it won't take a certain amount of discipline -- it will -- but in a pleasant way that gives one hope and the desire to be successful. <br /> <br />Beginning with a stabilization routine, then another for a lifetime of eating habits, Guiliano outlines a pattern for living.  From bread to meat, wine to desserts, she discusses moderation and quality.  Enjoyment of food and drink is of greatest importance, for in truly enjoying what you eat, quality replaces quantity in a natural way.  Along the way, she provides recipes for French dishes that would tempt anyone <br /> <br />For the first time, a regimen does not include working out in a gym until the sweat pours off your body.  Instead, she proposes regular exercise in your daily life, such as walking to the corner store instead of taking the car, appreciating the mundane physical chores, and doing them more regularly, because of the workout such activity gives your body, and your cardiovascular system. <br /> <br />Written in a calm and encouraging way, this book outlines a life style that anyone can live up to.  It provides those of us who love good food hope that we too can live healthy without sacrificing one of the joys of life.	2005-05-29
US	49173158	R33B9IPQ9FRGPA	0764554735	435249042	The GRE Test For Dummies (GRE CAT  FOR DUMMIES)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Helpful	Taking the GRE for any aspiring graduate student can be a daunting prospect.  However, taking the exam when the time you've been out of school can be calculated in decades, it is frightening.  There are many study guides out there and choosing one takes a bit of study in itself. <br /> <br />The GRE Test for Dummies is one of the simpler to understand and get through.  It is well organized.  One of the most helpful things it does is give the student a pretty good idea of what to expect at the testing site, how the test will appear on the computer, the importance given to each question and answer.  There are places, however, where the wording is confusing and unclear and if you're in a hurry to get through it, the humor might actually be an irritant. <br /> <br />After going through the study section, then taking the sample test, there seems to be no correlation with a few of the actual questions in the math or the Quantitative section.  The writing skills section is as good as it can be, given the nature of the task. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a good general study guide, but for those needing more help with math, another might work better.	2005-05-22
US	49173158	RDK6EUUSJYZXP	0553582860	95317864	Whisker of Evil: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Makes me sad	I've given this Mrs. Murphy novel a lower rating than the earlier ones because it made me sad.  This time, progress has come to Crozet, Va., and Mary Miner Haristeen has left the Post Office.  One of the things I truly loved about these stories was her, Miranda Hogendobber, and the \\"girls\\" working in the small, country-fied post office.  Now, a new, more modern P.O. is being built, and the animals will not be welcome. <br /> <br />Around these personal events for Harry a brutal murder occurs.  Another resident (or more) gets killed and some other of the town's residents aren't exactly what they seem.  Alicia Palmer, a great actress, is moving back from Hollywood.  A new romance is brewing.  Harry and her ex, Fair, seem ever closer to getting back together.  And someone has deadly secrets.  Again, it's the characters who drive these stories and give them their charm. <br /> <br />I will read any others of these mysteries that come along, but with some trepidation over what these changes will mean.  Write on Sneaky Pie.	2005-04-23
US	49173158	REKR174JX996M	0553580256	601975576	Pawing Through the Past: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another winner	By the time a reader gets to the 7th in a series, they are hooked.  And in the case of the Sneaky Pie Brown's works, they are also accustomed to and forgiving of the literary mistakes that occur in each volume.  It's amazing how you can read such things as point of view shifts, unidentified speakers, etc., and still enjoy the book.  In the case of the Mrs. Murphy mysteries, this has never been truer. <br /> <br />Once more new characters are introduced, this time for the high school reunions of the classes of 1980 and 1950.  It's the 1980 bunch who are being murdered off, and no one knows why.  And once again Mary Minor Haristeen is right in the middle.  She and her pets and friends are all in danger, although they are not the initial targets.The methods of murder continue to be bizarre -- or at the very least odd -- and often brutal. <br /> <br />One of the more satisfying events in Pawing through the Past is the reuniting of Miranda Hogendobber and her high school sweetheart, Tracy Raz.  Newly returned from his sojourn in Hawaii, he is being embraced by everyone, not only because he's a nice guy, but also because of the esteem in which Miranda is held by nearly everyone. <br /> <br />Fair Haristeen is still there, trying to convince Harry to marry him again by being brave, honorable, loving, and very good looking.  The rest of the usual characters -- Susan Tucker, BoomBoom Craycroft, Big Mim and Little Mim, Deputy Cooper, and Sheriff Shaw among them -- step into their roles, delightfully. <br /> <br />These stories are always pleasurable and quick reads.  Anyone wanting to check out the series could pick up any volume, but if the first, Wish You Were Here, is available, try starting there.	2005-04-03
US	49173158	R1JY3BWXTSKOM5	0961454733	330601981	Art & Fear: Observations On the Perils (and Rewards) of Artmaking	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Perplexing, but worth a second read	As if writers don't have enough trouble writing, along comes a book that is supposed to tell us why we and other artists often have trouble practicing our art.  First, of course, when one thinks of art, it is not often that literature of any kind comes into the picture.  Yet, the authors here say they are including writing.  Okay.  It is mentioned several times.  Writers are quoted many times.  Yet, it is usually the traditional trappings of art that are mentioned often.  Maybe it is just too difficult for writers to face the fears we have about rejection, not measuring up (to readers, other writers, or ourselves). <br /> <br />In retrospect, however, there are some conventions that are nice to discover.  Like being told that a painter may have the same fears as an actor as a playwright, as a sculptor -- as a writer.  That following through on a project and getting it completed, is sometimes the biggest achievement of all.  And the one thing that all writers agree on is also something other artists experience:  ideas are not hard to come by.  In fact, they're everywhere. <br /> <br />The one truth in this book that is easy for any artist to agree with is:  It isn't as easy as it looks, or as everyone thinks it is, or that we thought it was before we actually got started.  Problems and pitfalls are inherent in what we do.  It's whether we are able to cope with those, and not only continue to practice our art, but also to grow and improve, that determines if we will be successful.  That and talent will always tell in the end. <br />	2005-03-20
US	49173158	R1UZ654MVQW29N	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Is this encouraging?	I first heard about this book on TV and found the idea intriguing, perhaps it would even be informative.  After all, we women sometimes need all the encouragement we can get.  Even more, we need someone to help us understand men and what their mixed signals can mean. <br /> <br />Mostly, from what Greg Behrendt, the male of the team, says, mixed signals mean \\"he's just not that into you.\\"  But what about compromise, getting to know one another, giving a little, taking a little?  Nope.  There's no encouragement here for the woman hoping to find true love and a long lasting relationship.  It's easier to hope that Greg is looking at the negative side of things and is blinded to the possibilities. <br /> <br />On the other hand, Liz Tuccillo expresses what most of us have felt or hoped when confronted by a man who's never there for us, or is loving one moment, cold the next.  Surely, if we are patient and loving, he will realize what a wonderful catch I am and everything will end happily ever after. <br /> <br />Greg tells the reader often that he's found the woman of his dreams, and that even he treated women ambiguously before that.  Does that mean there is still hope for the rest of us women, that one day the right man will come along?  Given the negativism of the bulk of this book, it's almost impossible to believe. <br /> <br />This book can give some insight into the minds of men who are giving us signals we can't read.  But taking the whole as the entire truth, may be self defeating.  Surely there is a middle ground, between what the man says and what we hope for.  Otherwise, we might be too tempted to either settle or just give up.	2005-03-05
US	49173158	R6SAJ37EYLKRJ	0060524421	897377284	So Many Enemies, So Little Time: An American Woman in All the Wrong Places	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Unfocused and rambling	Elinor Burkett and her husband, Dennis, having become restless and wanting what might be a final adventure, decide they want to spend some time abroad.  Not as tourists, but she as a teacher and he as her companion.  They've been to Europe, South America and other usual destinations.  Checking on the Fulbright program, she elects to become a professor, teaching journalism in Kyrgyzstan, a fragment of the former Soviet Union.  Unfortunately, it seems, they arrive at their home for the next year a week before 9/11. <br /> <br />The book begins right after the attack when all Americans abroad must have been frightened and wanting to go home.  She and Dennis, like several others elect to stay.  This beginning makes some readers think that this book will be the story of fear and frustration as they cope with hatred and tension over their being Americans in a part of the world that must hate them and their country. <br /> <br />But there is actually very little of that which is what makes her story amazing.  During the months following 9/11, the two of them travel to countries in central Asia and the far east.  The only real difficulties in their travels is getting there -- the beueaucracy and bribes, suspicions of minor border guards.  Everywhere they hear much the same things from the people:  America is arrogant and brought the attacks on itself by interfering in the affairs of other states.  They should keep their noses out of other people's business.  But why don't they do something about . . . (take your pick)\\"  Never has it been more clear that America has such a love-hate relationship with the rest of the world. <br /> <br />In her teaching in the Kyrgyz university her own biases keep her at odds with the administration.  In her mind, she is there to teach the journalism students western-style, in-your-face reporting.  Never does she say that's what she was asked to do.  But this is the style she knows and it puzzles her that none of her students understand, or want to understand, how to do things her way.  Nor does she understand their willingness to accept the status quo, or their desire for a return to Communist control.  Independence and individual freedom seem beyond their ability to accept. <br /> <br />What surprises most Americans who read this story is our lack of understanding about most of the smaller countries that the Soviet Union brought inside their boundaries.  We tend to think that they must be grateful for the breakup of the Soviet state and attaining their new-found freedom.  Not so.  Everywhere the Burketts run into people who long for the return of order and running water.  They accept governments of nearly cult personalities.  And wish America would help them get back some of the things they miss most.  But don't tell them what to do. <br /> <br />The Burketts' journey is an amazing one through countries where most of us would fear to go.  This is an informative read about peoples we don't even begin to understand.  But perhaps we can begin to understand that, although we value our way of freedom so highly, not everyone else can embrace it.	2005-01-29
US	49173158	RO4UQY789LDE2	0756401534	223452361	Joust (The Dragon Jousters, Book 1)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Hoped for better	This novel began as a short story published in an anthology titled The Dragon Quintet.  It was the best of the collection and when I learned that Lackey had decided to use it as the basis for a novel, I was delighted.  Within a short time, I had a copy of the novel in hand and looked forward to reading it. <br /> <br />The reality was less than the anticipation.  The first 108 pages encompass one day in the life of Vetch, the 10-year-old boy who is the protagonist of the story.  Now, we all know how much energy children can have, but this lad accomplishes more in this one day than most people can get done in a week.  He also has the wisdom of the ages and tends to repeates himself incessantly, especially when he is judging others.  In this latter regard, good editing and tightening would have been of great benefit. <br /> <br />One does not have to get very far into this story to recognize the references to ancient Egyptian culture, history, and mythology.  Unfortunately, these references are neither strong enough nor slight enough to actually work.  Instead they are something of an irritant:  either be Egyptian or don't.	2005-01-15
US	49173158	R37HEMRJGVDJE6	0553582852	854651635	The Tail of the Tip-Off: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Most enjoyable so far	As this series has continued (now into 13 or more), the stories have come less stilted and more fanciful.  In this, the 12th book in the series, more animals are added to the population of Crozet, Va., and their varied roles continue to be a large part of the mystery and the solution. <br /> <br />The methods of murder continue to be bizarre -- or at the very least odd -- and often brutal.  This time, the focus is centered on the construction industry in Albemarle County which, like so many areas of the country, has been experiencing a years-long building boom.  There is hatred between contractors and county officials, suspicion among Crozet residents, who often gather at the local post office.  This community is a fluid one and relationships and love affairs grow and change.  One of the most satisfying is that between Miranda Hogendobber and her high school sweetheart, Tracy Raz.  Newly returned from his sojourn in Hawaii, he is being embraced by everyone, not only for his own part, but also because of the esteem in which Miranda is held by nearly everyone. <br /> <br />Here again, the trials of the community at large form background for two murders, both people known by Harry Harristeen and most of the residents of the small town.  From worn carpet in the Episcopal Church to the stray dog adopted by Tazio Chappars.  Read enough of these books and you will feel as if you are a member of the community with a personal stake in its life. <br /> <br />Sometimes Sneaky Pie and Ms. Brown are a little weak on the mysterious methods of murder.  This is a prime example, its having been disproved that such a missile could actually be used.  But suspending one's disbelief on such a thing probably comes much more easily when one accepts that animals talk.  And solve crimes. <br /> <br />Having come this far, a new reader would probably be well advised to begin the series at the beginning with \\"Wish You Were Here.\\"  That way, the characters grow in a natural progression from story to story.  However, each book does stand well on its own, and as some of the earliest are becoming difficult to find, that's a good thing.	2004-12-28
US	49173158	RNZIPN3F8DFF2	0689845340	380161256	The Farthest Shore (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	End of a series	Overall, this series rates a 4, but individually, it's difficult not to rate them a bit lower.  The sum total of Ged's story seems better than each part.  This definitely is a story that a reader thinks about once it's done. <br /> <br />Here, the story encompasses the whole of Earthsea, as a darkness creeps from island to island, killing wizard's ability to perform magic, and others' memories of traditions and ceremonies.  When Prince Arren arrives in Roke to tell, Ged, now the High Mage, that there is no longer magic on Enlad, the two set out to find the origins of the darkness. Led by natural instinct, Ged allows his boat, Lookfar, to take them to islands already in despair. <br /> <br />Where they find the cause brings the trilogy full circle in many respects.  The where and who could mean the death of both travelers.  But Ged has matured and has gained strength and wisdom.  Arren is young and strong and devoted to the Arch Mage.  Together, they face the danger, hoping to bring magic and lightness back to their world.	2004-12-22
US	49173158	RX4AWPUNSFJUD	0689845367	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Second in the Earthsea trilogy	Again, as in A Wizard of Earthsea, we find a book that is a bit dated in its aproach:  Lots of exposition and little action.  The difference is while Wizard was a coming of age story for a boy -- Ged's rising to both man and wizard -- this second book begins with the coming of age of a girl, Arha the Eaten One, high priestess to the ancient Powers of the Earth. <br /> <br />Raised in an isolated temple complex, Arha has no knoweldge of the outside world.  It isn't until Ged arrives to steal from the great treasury supposedly hidden in the underground tunnels, that her life begins to stretch beyond the temples and desert where they are located.  When she finds him in the darkness, excitement enters her life.  And for the first time, she feels compassion for another human being. <br /> <br />Finding the treasure he has come for, the broken ring of Erreth-Akbe, Ged must escape the tunnels and the only person who can help him is Arha.  With the sudden desire to break free, she agrees to lead him out of the darkness and go with him, out of the desert.  The only way they can leave, however, is if Ged can overcome the nameless gods she has served all of her life. <br /> <br />LeGuin has woven an intricate story of a life, from girlhood to womanhood, under most peculiar circumstances.  Arha not only grows up, she somehow acquires the wisdom to abandon a restrictive life and the courage to leave on an adventure she could not have imagined.  At the same time, Ged acquires the coveted ring and return its powers to the world from which it came. <br /> <br />Although these books are often sold in the young adult sections of book stores, and kept in the same sections of the libraries, they do not really seem geared especially toward children.  Just like the Lord of the Rings, there is more here than simple story telling.  They are geared as much, if not more, toward adults.	2004-12-10
US	49173158	R1S6OCI54X5WBP	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A throwback in a way	It is a strange thing, reading a fantasy novel written decades ago.  It is one of the most forceful reminders of how tastes -- and styles -- have changed.  This is not a slambang, sword wielding fantasy, the kind many of us have become accustomed to in the past few years.  Nor is it the cute, elfin, or funny sort of fantasy, either.  There are no cute creatures and only a few scary ones.  In other words, this is not a book for the reader looking for instant gratification. <br /> <br />The world of Earthsea is composed of groups of islands, each with its own history, and often with different languages.  The sea is the highway between them, with boats of various sizes and shapes moving over it from place to place.  But the sea is more:  it is a character that influences events <br /> <br />Leguin tells the story of Ged and his search for a dark entity in a lyrical and languid way.  Here the beauty is as much in the words as in the setting.  Certainly, the characters are less than sympathetic, at least in the beginning.  Ged, a young, soon-to-be wizard, somewhat brash, not caring about the consequences of his actions.  Ogion the Silent, who knows all and tells nothing.  The Dragon of Pendor, hugely ominous and dangerous.  And Vetch, Ged's friend and confidant.  None of these are well-drawn at first.  But, when the book ends, the reader feels that he or she knows each. <br /> <br />This, the first in the Earthsea trilogy, published in the 1960s, reflects the inward looking of that time.  People trying to find themselves and their place in the world.  Before Ged is named, his own search begins as he grows and changes, becoming a person to be reckoned with in his own world. <br /> <br />Readers of this book may also like The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, by C.S. Lewis, or the Lord of the Rings trilogy.	2004-12-07
US	49173158	R529PGK59C87G	0553580906	479839252	Claws and Effect: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Up to par and surprising	In every Mrs. Murphy mystery, someone gets killed.  Who that will be is part of the mystery.  In this volume, the victim is the real surprise.  And as the story progresses, the readers of this series get closer to the residents of Crozet, Virginia, learning more about each.  In this particular story Big Mim stands out and we find her even more human than before.  The resolution is satisfying and Harry (Mary Minor Harristeen) is her usual curious and clever self, with the help of her three pets, of course <br /> <br />The question of whether Harry and her ex, Fair, will get back together is still up in the air, but they are getting along better as the series progresses. <br /> <br />Once more, a visit to Crozet leaves the reader with a mystery solved and the chracters more fully realized.	2004-10-04
US	49173158	R15P9PL5SPY94S	0553562398	88695122	Rest in Pieces: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The adventure continues	Rest in Pieces, the second in the Mrs. Murphy mystery series, begins when Blair Bainbridge, a male model, moves into Crozet.  The cast of female characters immediately begin to matchmake, particularly with Mary Minor \\"Harry\\" Harristeen, postmistress and recently divorced.  But as has become the norm in the small town, murder gets in the way of everyone's plans.  It all begins when Tee Tucker, Harry's corgi, finds a body part in the family burial plot on Blair's farm. <br /> <br />As the mystery unfolds, the readers learn more and more about Harry, her neighbors, and their pets.  At the top of the pyramid are Marilyn Sanburne and her recently married daughter, Little Marilyn.  Although not a marriage of love, at first, she and Fitz-Gilbert have come to care for each other in a short time.  But as usual in Crozet, things are not as they appear. <br /> <br />While no one in the small town wants to believe that one of them is a murderer, another body turns up.  Each is beginning to believe he or shee may be in danger.  But why?  The end is surprising and satisfying.  This is a good quick read and leads the reader into the next in the series.	2004-08-29
US	49173158	R2K8DCO9614YYN	0553287532	183214458	Wish You Were Here: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Short and Sweet	In Wish You Were Here, Rita Mae Brown (and Sneaky Pie) have begun a mystery series that is less mystery and more the story of a small town in Virginia. Although the characters here are not quite fully developed, one suspects we will get to know them very well as the stories develop.  <br /> <br />Although Crozet may have become another murder capital of the country, the deaths are macabre enough to almost be amusing: the bodies are mangled in a cement mixer and under the wheels of a train. The mystery is a bit thin, and the solution a bit contrived, perhaps that's the way it would be when neighbors realize that a crime has occurred.  <br /> <br />As the residents of Crozet, led by Ms. Harry Haristeen, muddle through the clues, their pets try to tell them what they've found with their sharper senses. A legendary treasure becomes a real, modern-day one, and friends and neighbors aren't at all what they seem.  <br /> <br />Readers who like this book might also enjoy mysteries by Dick Francis (with an English flavor) and by Tony Hillerman (with an American Indian flavor). All are quick reads, each gives a glimpse into a world most of us are not familiar with, and the characters often matter more than the mystery. <br /> <br />	2004-07-31
US	49173158	R2V04ZOKBXBN4K	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Yeah, what she said	This book's fame was everywhere long before it was published in America.  Usually, I don't read books that get such hype, but it was difficult not to be intrigued by both its premise and fame.  Before buying it, I saw Lynne Truss on Book TV on C-Span and found her amusing.  I decided to try the book.<br />Well, it turns out that I am a fellow &quot;stickler.&quot;  I'm one of those people who punctuates her emails and spells everything out.  Obviously, this book was meant for me.  Now, when I read a newspaper article or a published bit of fiction, I'll feel justified in waving my little red and white book and saying, &quot;See, I told y'all all along that it should be hyphenated.&quot;  Although one must be careful to distinguish the difference between English Enlish and American English.  (Should those be hyphenated?  Where's my book?)<br />One of the most telling moments in this entire phenomenon was when Truss said in her Book TV appearance that writing the book was a bit like taking pictures of Venice:  You want something to remember it by after it disapears.  Perhaps the popularity of the book means the demise of correct punctuation has been delayed.	2004-06-27
US	49173158	R9GRLJGVN7V8D	076531035X	92849089	The Dragon Quintet	Books	2	9	13	N	N	A good short story is hard to find	Perhaps because I am older and have read many stories from the Golden Age of SF, or perhaps only because times have changed, I find it more and more difficult to find a good genre short fiction.  I frequently pick up anthologies and magazines, but more often find disappointment than satisfaction.  I had high hopes for The Dragon Quintet.  After all, every author in here is well known and writes &quot;good stuff.&quot;<br />&quot;In the Dragon's House&quot; by Orson Scott Card was slow.  Some aspects of the story were intriguing, but it was difficult to finish.  &quot;Judgment&quot; by Elizabeth Moon has some fine moments, but there are rules that must be followed, but no one knows the rules except the ones who made them.  The characters aren't very likable.  Tanith Lee's &quot;Love in the Time of Dragons&quot; is dark and again has no sympathetic characters.  Unfortunately, she sometimes has too much brutality against women than I like.<br />At last, we come to &quot;Joust&quot; by Mercedes Lackey, the best of the lot.  This is a story that would stand out in any collection.  The characters are sympathetic and the cause and effect are logical and satisfying.  Although the end may be a bit too &quot;nice&quot; for some tastes, there is no illogic to it.  I liked this one.<br />The final story, &quot;King Dragon&quot; by Michael Swanwick, is such a mishmash of ideas, names, things and creatures, that I became frustrated with it and barely finished.  I know writers and editors are looking for things that are new and different; however, nothing beats a good, well-told story that, at least part of the time, makes sense.	2004-06-05
US	49173158	R2554X7PYPI8AY	0757301452	989143066	Chicken Soup for the Fisherman's Soul: Fish Tales to Hook Your Spirit and Snag Your Funny Bone (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Father's Day or any day for the fisherman or woman	Chicken Soup for the Fisherman's Soul is a delightful collection of anecdotes by people who love to fish, have gone fishing, or know someone who does or has.  Some big names are listed on the cover, but there are delightful stories from unknowns.  For instance, Taking the Bait, by Jacqueline Michels, the only one included from Alaska, who tells of fishing for more than . . . well . . . you know, fish.  Then, Cary Osborne's Half an Inch to Spare, about the one that didn't get away, she gave it away.  And the cartoons will bring a chuckle, if not an outright laugh.<br />The inspiration here is for a sport that so many people enjoy for just as many reasons.  Read it for a laugh, for a sigh, and maybe for a memory.	2004-06-02
US	49173158	RGIEI1FNIV9F2	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	4	3	4	N	N	One man's view from the inside	One of the first things one might note when starting this book is that, at least in the beginning, it is very readable.  Hearing of events from someone who was there is very mesmerizing, especially when those events are ones that have affected everyone in this country.  However, as one gets further into it, there are more than enough redundancies to be slightly frustrating.  Still, Clarke's style is largely readable and straight forward and makes for a quick read.<br />The essence of the book, the story it tells is disturbing, even maddening at times.  We like to think that America has the best of everything including its intelligence gathering abilities, and the strength to take of itself and its own.  We found out on 9-11, of course, that isn't always true.  Clarke's book doesn't make us feel any better about our government's handling of issues leading up to that horrific day.<br />He immediately faults the second Bush administration for putting too much emphasis on Iraq.  He admits to being a bit short sighted at times, along with his peers.  He defends the Clinton administration while faulting the FBI, CIA, military, etc., for hindering the efforts of the President and Clarke's committees to deal with al Qaeda.  In his view, when Bush two comes into office, every advance is destroyed or limited such that 9-11 is nearly inevitable.<br />There is no doubt that Clarke has his own axe to grind and his words are to be read with a certain amount of suspicion.  Even so, his story alerts us all to the failings of our government to be as fully informed as they should have been to the threat from al Qaeda.  This work should help everyone decide where we go from here, what is necessary to fight the terrorists, and, hopefully, to avoid the same mistakes in the future.  Read this book, then read others on the same subject, to form a balanced opinion on the mistakes that were made.	2004-05-09
US	49173158	R1S2B5B8PPUPOG	0613065077	837181446	Comeback	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good, but not his best	In Comeback, Francis enters the world of diplomacy and veterinary medicine more than horse racing, although horses play an important part as usual.  The plot seems more contrived than usual in this outing, however.  The story opens when Peter Darwin, after meeting two British performers in Miami, find himself helping the couple after they are mugged on the street.  Having taken responsible for them in a small way, he finds himself escorting them to England where they are to attend the woman's daughter's wedding.<br />Once in England, things really go to pieces.  The daughter and her fiance work in a veterinary hospital, he as a well-respected surgeon, she as a nurse.  But his career is in jeopardy as one after another horse dies after he has operated on it.  And the cause has proved impossible to determine.<br />On a visit to the races at Cheltenham, Peter just happens to meet a young woman employed by the Jockey Club who is escorting two Japanese gentlemen, neither of whom speaks English.  Well, Peter's last posting just happened to be Japan where he learned the language and he had even met one of the gentlemen while posted there.  The romance which follows is contrived and adds nothing to the basic story in itself.  Annabel, the young woman Peter has eyes for, does have connections that help him in his investigation, but those meetings could have come about in a more believable fashion.<br />Still, Francis' knowledge of horses, racing, and the information he garners regarding other professions is always enlightening.  Weak as it is, Comeback is still a fast and often fun read.	2004-04-04
US	49173158	R17RY2C03885M4	0515117234	200908480	Wild Horses	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another professional, another good one	Although Dick Francis always manages to get horse racing into nearly every mystery he writes, he also brings the reader a lot of information on other professions, into which he puts his protagonists.  In this case, Thomsas Lyon is a movie director, young, ambitious, very good at what he does.  In his current film \\"Unstable Times,\\" he may also be arousing old passions over a nearly forgotten mystery.  Thomas first realizes there may be repercussions when an old trainer, and his friend, dies of cancer, leaving him all of his collection of books.  Shortly afterward, the man's sister is attacked and nearly killed by a man wielding a wicked knife.<br />Although the movie script, and the book it is taken from, uses none of the original names, the story is clearly one of a young woman found hanging in a horse stall nearly thirty years earlier.  The book's author is constantly appalled at the liberties Lyon takes with his work and causes no end of complications.  Her husband, accused of her murder, was never convicted.  He and many others involved at the time threaten, cajole, beg, and whine, trying to keep the movie from being finished.  Clearly, someone fears that the truth may come out. <br />In the end, Lyon does solve the decades old mystery, but not without taking a few licks himself.  The movie is finished and we are told quite successfully, as it wins several Academy Awards.  On the journey, Lyon has proven himself a good director, has made friends of many of the participants, and is himself quite satisfied with the result.	2004-03-28
US	49173158	R9O9XYK8706O3	0743527070	247672694	Red Dragon Movie tie-In	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Horror like I never hope to meet	Having seen both Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon movies, it was interesting to listen to the book on tape.  As movies go, Silence seems the more powerful.  But this book is enough to make anyone's skin crawl.  And it isn't just the nature of the crimes or the killer that is spooky.<br />Will Graham, one of the FBI's profilers, is able to get inside the head of killers like Hannibal Lecter, the man he managed to put away, but not before being so badly injured that he nearly died.  Because of that experience, he quit the FBI.  When Jack Crawford asks for his help with a new serial killer, nicknamed The Tooth Fairy, Will's sense of responsibility makes him accept the assignment.  Little does he know that this assignment will endanger him and those he loves.<br />In many ways, Harris established the basis for this sort of thriller.  The one thing that spoils this recording is the narrator.  His tone, often when reading the women's dialogue, is whiney and he isn't as able as some narrators to use different voices to differentiate between characters.  That was a bit distracting and made it difficult to follow at times, esp when the listener leaves the story and comes back to it.  Still, Red Dragon is interesting and powerful, whether in print or on audio.	2004-03-23
US	49173158	R3PUZF3O9061XE	0613164377	4101913	To the Hilt	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Always dependable, always enjoyable	Usually if one said that an author and his novels were dependable that would be synonymous with dull and boring.  Not so with Dick Francis.  He always manages to create stories and characters that grab the reader and hold on until the end.<br />In \\"To the Hilt,\\" we have Alexander Kinloch, a painter whose specialty is golf and the places and people that involves.  He lives in a bothy in the Scottish highlands where the solitude makes his work not only possible, but extraordinarily wonderful.  However, the world intrudes in the shape of four burly men who beat the pulp out of him.  They want to know where \\"it\\" is, and when they realize he has no idea what they mean they throw him down the mountain to his fate.<br />Over the next few weeks, he finds out what they were seeking and why.  When Ivan, his step-father, has a heart attack, the authority to protect the older man's empire is given to him, a responsibility he is both willing and loath to accept.  His step-sister, who resents his interference, begins intruding on his life and that of their parents.  As she struggles to wrest power from him her father dies, leaving Alexander with total authority.  Part of that responsibility is a string of race horses, bringing into the story the one absolute certainty of a Francis story.<br />However, he really shines in this tale when describing the artist's passion and obsession.  Alexander meets an older woman, an antiquities expert, bent on \\"saving\\" a precious heirloom, and becomes haunted by her face, to the point that he feels compelled to paint her portrait.  The reader gets the brush strokes and the feelings as the work forms under his hands.  Even a non-artist has to say, \\"Yes, that's how it is.\\"  When she sees the finished work, she says, \\"You have made me immortal.\\"<br />Anyone who likes mysteries will enjoy the clean writing in a Dick Francis novel.  For the most part both story and characters are unambiguous.  This is a quick read and totally enjoyable.	2004-03-20
US	49173158	R1W4VXORAAH2W3	0684822911	260759335	Founding Father: Rediscovering George Washington	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Adding to the legend	In the overall history of the beginnings of the United States, George Washington looms larger than any other participant.  The number of books about him are proof of that, if nothing else is.  He has been biographied, eulogized, characterized, historied, and fictionalized.  And in today's politically correct world, he has even been demonized.  Yet everyone who has written about him has had to admit that for good or ill, we would not have the country we know without him.<br />In Founding Father, Richard Brookhiser, examines why and when Washington became known as the father of our country.  He divides his study into three major categories:  Career, Character, Founding Father.  A fourth category, Death, brings the examination to a close.<br />More than most of the Founders, our first President was a self-made man.  His formal education was limited, although his experience was extensive, beginning as a teenager in a surveying party in the western lands.  He shaped his own character by following rules of behavior which he thought appropriate to a man in his position.  Not without faults, such as a fiery temper and being a slaveowner, he strove all of his life to be the best man he could be.<br />Brookhiser describes how Washington worked to be better, and worried about things he could not completely control.  He risked everything to free the U.S. from the British.  Afterwards, when he would have enjoyed life at Mt. Vernon, he answered the call to serve his country once more as its first president.  To the world at large, both in his own time and down through the centuries to today, the most important contribution he made was when he stepped down and went home after his second term.<br />This is a valuable addition to our knowledge of the man some have called &quot;the indispensable man&quot; in early American history.  Brookhiser helps the reader get past the portraits, the dollar bill, and enigma, and to better understand the man behind them all.<br />Readers who enjoythis book, might also enjoy Richard Norton Smith's &quot;Patriarch,&quot; James Thomas Flexner's &quot;Washignton: The Indispensable Man,&quot; and for fiction, Howard Fast's &quot;The Crossing.&quot;	2004-03-06
US	49173158	R1IHG896Y7LRMG	0786115149	710968987	Smokescreen	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Dick Francis is always good, but . . .	Smokescreen is one of those Dick Francis mysteries that take the reader to a country other than England.  In this case, two countries, Spain and South Africa, are the sites of the action.  The protagonist, Edward Lincoln, is an actor, in his thirties, and when the story opens, he's starring in a movie being made in Spain:  Man in a Car.  Talk about foreshadowing.  But like most of Francis' heroes, \\"Linc\\" has lots of experience with horses.  As a young man, he worked in a stable; in his early movie career he was a stuntman, specializing in horses.<br />Given his early experience, it is only natural that a good friend should ask Linc to go to South Africa and find out why her stable of horses is doing so badly in their races after promising beginnings.  His friend, it turns out, is dying.  The horses are to go to her nephew in her will.  And she doesn't want to leave him the horses if they aren't any good.<br />Shortly after his arrival in Johannesburg, Linc is nearly injured in an accident.  If it weren't for the fact that a female TV reporter was seriously injured, he could believe that the publicist for the movie distributor had staged it.  The next accident proves that there's no joking around.<br />Francis' prose is always clean and direct.  His characters are straight forward and believable.  In the abridged edition, however, much is lost of the nuances of story that are always so enjoyable.  If you like Francis, read or listen to the full version.  It will be worth the extra time.	2004-02-17
US	49173158	R269T0Z1F0YBE1	0745128424	513326441	Bolt	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No mystery here -- or so it seems	In Bolt, Dick Francis continues the misadventures of Kit Fielding, jockey and all-round good guy.  Francis' heroes are nearly always good and honest and brave, but never boring.  They're the sort of men women would love to love and men should want to be like.<br />This time, however, Kit seems on the verge of losing, Danielle, his fiance and the love of his life.  As he wrestles with these feelings, he is struck with the murder of the Princess' horses, first one, then two, then one more.  Henri Nonterre is out to make the Princess and her husband turn to gun manufacturing, but Kit will do anything in his power to keep that from happening, as long as the family chooses to resist.<br />Meantime, Kit's old enemy, Maynard Allerdeck, looms in the background with renewed malice.  What can possibly have increased his hatred for this particular Fielding?  Fully occupied in helping the Princess and her family (which includes Danielle)avoid Nonterre's machinations, Kit merely tries to avoid any adverse contact with Maynard.  But that may not be possible.<br />In typically honest, straight forward fashion, Kit strives to protect his employers and friends, and the horses he loves so much.  In the meantime, he waits for Danielle to make up her mind about whether she wants to spend the rest of her life with him.  A first rate story and most pleasant narrator.	2004-02-07
US	49173158	RSKDJ7B7JZ7OH	1930709080	863960434	Dark Within	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark and creepy	John Wooley's voice and style are calm and quiet.  No screaming.  No blood.  No bodies being ripped apart.  In a rural setting, with average people, a horror comes visiting.  A stranger in a coffin-like box that he promises never to leave, if he can only park in their yard, garden, or barn.  Although Kard may be strange, he may not be entirely a stranger.<br />For $100 a week, Jim Douglas and his friends, living in a rural area near Claremore, Okla., agree to let Kard stay in corners of their properties.  Inside the box, nothing is visible except Kard, in his jogging outfit, and blackness behind him, punctuated by small pinpoints of white light.<br />In spite of his promise to never leave the box, his presence begins to intrude into their lives.  Suddenly his image appears on the children's computer monitor.  Deborah Douglas is sure that she knows him from somewhere, sometime, and the possibility that she remembers him, seems to disturb Kard.  Then, people begin disappearing.  The reality of what's inside the box must be determined before the Douglases and their friends can rid themselves of Kard's presence.  But the stranger is in control and they don't know how to fight him.<br />Readers who enjoy this and other of Wooley's horror novels might also enjoy Ash Wednesday and Soul Storm by Chet Williamson.	2004-02-01
US	49173158	R3A13HYU4V2MXE	0440238137	994627826	The Golden Compass: His Dark Materials	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An alternate world filled with daemons and bears	Imagine a world where one's soul is shared with a daemon.  These creatures appear in animal form, changing often when young, taking a permanent form following puberty.  In The Golden Compass, the reader first meets Lyra Belacque, a 12-year-old girl, and her daemon Pantalaimon, who live in Jordan College.  Not as one of the students, but as a ward of the school.  So it seems.  Her only relative, Uncle Lord Asriel, visits occasionally.  At these times, he generally criticizes her for not behaving in the manner she should.  However, when the story opens, Lord Asriel is visiting the college for an entirely different reason, one that triggers the adventures on which she is launched.<br />Accustomed to having nearly perfect freedom, roaming the city with some children, warring with others, she suddenly finds herself taken away to London by Mrs. Coulter.  Her new responsibilities include assisting the older woman, in what Lyra does not know.  But during a party, she discovers that Mrs. Coulter is associated with the Gobblers, people who snatch children from the streets, for what purpose, no one knows.  She runs away into the night, not knowing where to go.  A group of Gyptians find her and protect her.  They know more about her past and her future than she does herself.  Their way leads north where Lord Asriel is himself a prisoner, guarded by polar bears.<br />Before leaving Jordan College, Lyra was given a strange instrument resembling a compass.  Over time, she learns its purpose and how to use it.  With this, the friendship of a bear, and the help of the Gyptians, Lyra seeks out the missing children and her uncle.<br />This is the first of the \\"His Dark Materials\\" series.  Read it and start on a new adventure.	2004-01-24
US	49173158	R15WAAEWKPVJGD	0694520519	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Tail feathers and a snowman	By the time of \\"The First Eagle,\\" Lt. Joe Leaphorn has become Mr. Leaphorn and Jim Chee is acting lieutenant of the Navajo police.  But some things have not changed.  Murder is still a problem on the reservation as is bubonic plague, carried by fleas from rodents, especially prairie dogs.  The plague has brought investigators from different labs hoping to gain knoweldge of how the new, resistant strain can be combated.<br />The police investigation begins when one of their own, Officer Kinsman, is killed by a Hopi poaching eagles on the reservation.  Chee catches the man red-handed (with blood) and arrests him.  Meanwhile, Leaphorn has been asked to try and find Catherine Pollard, a young biologist who has been working for the health service on the plague problem.  As the separate investigations progress, their paths begin to converge.<br />To complicate matters, Chee is surprised and guardedly optimistic to find his one-time fiance has returned from Washington, and she is working with the public defenders office and will be defending the Hopi.  He agonizes over whether her feelings have changed and is noncomittal when the prosecutor and FBI agents ask about his relationship with her.<br />Much hinges on whether there were one or two eagles captured by the Hopi, and what has happened to the missing health services investigator.  Is she alive?  Did she kill Kinsman?  Or is the Hopi guilty after all?<br />This is another of Hillerman's good, simple mysteries involving two of the favorite policemen in the southwest.  Readers of Hillerman's mysteries might also enjoy those written by Dick Francis.  Although taking place in England, for the most part, they are as clearly written and have heroes of the same caliber.	2004-01-07
US	49173158	R398TWSOE3LN0T	0618390987	770871332	The Return of the King Photo Guide (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great collection of pictures	This is the third in the series of photo guides for The Lord of the Rings movies.  With 48 pages, the selection of pictures is extensive and sometimes includes pictures of scenes not included in the theatrical release.  Although intended for children, it is a good companion to the books and movies.<br />Written for ages 8 and up, the descriptions are elementary and sometimes incomplete.  Enjoy the pictures, and those in the first two books, but adults should read the novels for the complete story.	2004-01-01
US	49173158	RGFVMT2IS158T	0684872951	659290028	Millionaire : The Philanderer, Gambler, and Duelist Who Invented Modern Finance	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another lost moment in history	In the 18th century, a Scotsman named John Law created a financial system using paper in place of coin with which to conduct business.  He had come by the system not only through his unique financial acumen, but also through his talent for gambling.  He was a man who could figure the odds, then turn them to his greater advantage.<br />An unfortuante duel in London prevented Law from introuducing his system to the English government, who hounded him for years over the death of Edward Wilson, a man with influential friends and family.  Arrested and imprisoned, Law managed to escape to the continent.  During his travels he met Katherine Seigneur, an Englishwoman of noble birth married to a Frenchman.  True to his gambler's nature, he fell in love and she left with him, living as his wife for the rest of his life, in many cities on the continent.  During their travels, Law tried over and over to convince heads of government that his financial system could be the answer to national money problems.<br />It was after the death of Louis XIV that he caught the ear and imagination of the Duc d'Orleans, regent of France during the minority of Louis XV.  Starting fairly small at first, Law was allowed to institute a national bank and print paper money.  Eventually he became the chief financial minister and head of the Mississippi Company -- a trading company whose very existence seemed to have disappeared from history.  Although Law was remarkably intelligent about things financial, he seems, however, to have a flawed understanding of human nature.  In the end, all of his creations tumbled over the edge, and the rise and fall of John Law was over and done in a flash.<br />For a career that affected most of western Europe, it seems that little is taught about him and his system.  A book such as this adds much to one's knowledge of 18th century European history and the financial world of the time.  It is a rare find and worth the read.	2003-12-20
US	49173158	R2YPNP8E7TLWHH	1570426201	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Entertaining and a quick read	In Simple Truth, Baldacci gives us another of his action-oriented mysteries in which innocent people are unknowingly caught up in events over which they have no control.  When Michael Fisk, a Supreme Court clerk opens and reads a new filing, he finds himself in the midst of events which actually started 25 years earlier when a young girl was brutally murdered by Rufus Harms, now a prisoner at Fort Jackson in Virginia.  Although Harms confessed, and in the beginning of the story we are told how repentant he is, the crime is not as simple as it seems at first.<br />The story begins when Harms receives a letter from the Army, smuggled to him by his brother Josh.  Rufus contacts the lawyer who defended him 25 years ago and through him files an appeal with the Supreme Court, based on the facts in the letter, which is the filing Micheal Fisk sees.  He takes the papers to Ft. Jackson prison to ask Rufus about it.  Soon after he leaves the prison, Michael is found dead.<br />When Michael's brother John learns of his brother's death, he goes to Washington to identify the body and try to tie up his brother's affairs.  He immediately gets the sense that the crime was not a random robbery at all, a feeling shared by Detective Chandler who is investigating the crime.  Within a short time, John meets, among others, an FBI agent named McKenna, several of the justices on the Supreme Court, the chief of police for the court -- and Sara, another court clerk and friend of Michael's.  Before any progress can be made in the investigation, another clerk is found murdered.<br />More complications occur and questions are raised.  Did John kills his brother for the half a million dollar insurance policy?  What does Justice Knight have to do with it all?  Is McKenna out to railroad John Fisk?  And what is the secret information in the letter sent to Rufus Harms?  The questions are all answered in the exciting end and Baldacci has wrapped it all up once again.	2003-11-16
US	49173158	R21PQQKCROYHW7	0312280696	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	After the war came the fighting	In The Year of Jubilo, Howard Bahr tells the story of Gawain Harper's return to his home in Cumberland, Miss. after the end of the War Between the States.  Waiting for him are his father, his Aunt Vassar, while Morgan Rhea, the woman he loves, believes him dead.  As he nears home, he begins meeting up with strange characters:  some he knew before, others are strangers, all of them will figure in his life for the next few days.<br />Returning home was rarely easy for Confederate soldiers.  Like most, Gawain finds things much changed.  His family home is run down.  His father is ill.  Many homes and businesses lie in ruins.  And Union soldiers are camped within the town.  Still, he hopes to settle back into civilian life, a life he wants to share with Morgan.<br />However, King Solomon Gault, a self-styled officer and guerilla leader, has other plans for Cumberland and those who live in the area.  For him and his followers, the war is far from over, and there are neighbors who deserve punishment at his hands.  Gawain deals with Gault and his own demons as best he can and with the help of strange bedfellows.<br />Bahr has created believable characters and events.  His prose style makes for a beautiful reading experience and, although superb, never gets in the way of the story.  It spans only a few days, is a quick read, and one that the reader will dwell on for a while.	2003-11-06
US	49173158	REZMUTM53UWJ2	0811705765	517542541	Battle of New Market	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Remembered by a few	William C. Davis tells the story of the Battle of New Market, Virginia in May of 1864, the last battle won by a Confederate army in the Shenandoah Valley.  It was a battle that people, at the time, thought would never be forgotten.  A battle in which the youngest of men proved they were soldiers.<br />With the Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia fighting Grant and his Army of the Potomac on an almost daily basis, there was little to spare to protect the Valley which had supplied the eastern Confederate army throughout the War between the States.  Grant called on General Sigel, a German from Pennsylvania, to harass the Confederates and take control of the Shenandoah.  However, he had asked the wrong man, for Sigel was not an experienced field commander, and he proved that he never would be.  Lee did not make the same mistake.  General Breckinridge of Kentucky proved himself a soldier worthy of Lee's trust.<br />However, Breckinridge had a major problem.  Sigel's forces outnumbered his by a large margin.  Where could he find more soldiers to improve the odds?  He turned to Virginia Military Institute, the school at which Stonewall Jackson was teaching at the outbreak of the war.  The school's commandant sent his young cadets, some not even teenagers, with their guns and cannon.  During the battle, they took their place in line, in spite of jibes from older, more seasoned soldiers.  In the end those soldiers would speak with pride of the performance of the cadets whose discipline and courage proved them worthy.  Although they did not win the battle by themselves, as some claimed at the time, the battle might very well have been lost without them.<br />At the end of the battle, people in the Valley were calling Breckinridge the new Stonewall Jackson and hoped he would stay.  After all, Sigel and his Union army had been pushed back north, but another general, Hunter, soon replaced him.  But Lee needed Breckinridge elsewhere and he served where needed.  In the end, theValley was lost to Sheridan who burned and destroyed everything in his path.<br />Today, the site of the Battle of New Market has been set aside as a park in honor of those who fought and died there, both Union and Confederate.  The event is mostly remembered by people living in the area, die-hard Civil War buffs, and VMI, whose cadets are still honored.  Davis brings their story alive again so that more of us can remember.	2003-10-28
US	49173158	R1ZV7P6ZTGBMSU	0812508440	276745598	The White Rose: A Novel of the Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Final battle in the north	The White Rose, the third in Glen Cook's Black Company series, completes this mercenary army's adventures in the north country.  It is as different from the first two as they are different from each other.  The men grow older, their numbers, dwindle, yet they are feared by their enemies.<br />All of the threads come together, but not altogether cleanly.  The differences between good and evil are not always clear.  The beginning of the story is disjointed and not nearly as action-oriented as the first two.  No one is what he -- or she -- seems to be.  Yet at the end, the story is satisfying enough.<br />Cook's gritty prose style changes slightly from one book to the next.  Characterization is not as strong as in the previous books.  Yet there is enough continuity to keep one reading.  And he always has a few surprises.  This is a good, fast read.  Be sure to read the books 1 and 2 first.	2003-09-11
US	49173158	R1C0F2ZZB81QE0	0806131934	301881534	Bold Dragoon: The Life of J. E. B. Stuart	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Beauty and the Civil War	Bold Dragoon is the story of the life of J.E.B. Stuart, a cavalryman and a cavalier of the old order.  From his youth in southwest Virginia to his wounding at Yellow Tavern, his was a life of adventure and a search for recognition.<br />Called Beauty at West Point, Stuart wore a great beard during the war to cover up what he thought of as a weak chin.  However, there was nothing weak about his military exploits.  General Lee relied on him and his intelligence throughout the war.  So much so, that when he was missing at the beginning of the battle at Gettysburg, blame fell on him and his absence as part of the reason for the battle's beginning before the Army of Virginia could choose the ground.  He never again disappointed Lee, whom he first met at the time of John Brown's escapade in Harper's Ferry.<br />Proud and ostentatious, he revelled in the attentions of women and chastised his wife when she showed jealousy.  He loved to dance.  Could be refreshed by short naps and wake immediately -- which he was required to do on more than one occasion when caught unawares.  And his death in Richmond in 1864 brought a chill to the Confederacy.  General Lee said of him: &quot;He never brought me a false piece of information.&quot;<br />Emory Thomas brings this man to life.  His research included many primary sources, the writing style is easy, and the story is broad and bold.  This is a must for students of the War Between the States and U.S. military history.	2003-09-05
US	49173158	R1XGLFQHO1HG6I	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Back at Hogwarts and in trouble	The fifth book in the Harry Potter series continues the story of the boy wizard and his friends and mentors in their fight against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.  Harry, now a 15-year-old, has some of the wilfulness of most teenagers, but retains his desire to protect the world from the evil that continually hunts him.<br />This time, however, even the Ministry of Magic is against him, Dumbledore, and all who believe that Voldemort has returned.  Hogwarts itself is besieged by the Ministry's minions which hampers everyone's efforts in the fight against the Dark Lord.  There is always Professor Snape, who hates Harry more than he hates Voldemort.  Cornelius Fudge, the bumbling head of the Ministry, who has decided that Harry should be punished and banished for telling lies.  Dolores Umbridge, the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, and the Inquisitor set in place by the Ministry.  The Malfoys whose loyalty to the Dark Lord has never been stronger -- except for their loyalty to themselves.<br />At 870 pages, this at first seems a daunting tome.  It could have been tightened in places, thus shortening the length.  However, it is still a fast read.  The action is exciting.  The cast of characters is as large and varied as ever.  And the story is full and satisfying.	2003-08-19
US	49173158	R5FOC9WPJEJ6P	0811720632	852465809	Rebels from West Point	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Politics, war and friendships	In Rebels from West Point, Gerard A. Patterson has compiled information on some of the more intersting figures, as well as careers, in the War Between the States.  Some mention has been made in larger works, including the movie Gettysburg, about the relationships between men from both sides of the conflict, but this work covers them all, albeit in small bits sometimes.<br />In this work, however, the conflict between West Pointers and non-professional officers is more clearly covered.  From the beginning, the &quot;newcomers&quot; felt looked down upon by their more rigorously trained compatriots.  Here, we find this attitude contributing to one of the least known aspects of the war:  the professional competition among officers in both armies, and in all grades.  Sometimes these attitudes took precedence over conducting the war in a professional manner.<br />There is also some coverage of the conflicts that rose up after the war -- and particularly after the death of R.E. Lee -- over who was to blame for losing the war.  James Longstreet was particularly vilified over his conduct at Gettysburg and later over his friendship with U.S. Grant and membership in the Republican Party.  Such things provided fuel for men who were still trying to promote themselves, sometimes beyond their capabilities.<br />This book is a nice addition to any collection on the Civil War and would be particularly complementary to the biographies and autobiographies which are available in abundance.	2003-08-15
US	49173158	R3M3I6YAWU9FER	0966969855	117416529	Beyond the Last Star: Stories from the Next Beginning	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Stories from the Next Beginning	Beyond the Last Star is an anthology of short stories edited by Sherwood Smith and published by SFF Net.  Markets for short science fiction stories have been dwindling in the past several years, especially among the magazines.  When an anthology does come out those who love short stories always hope for the best.<br />The subtitle for this anthology is Stories from the Next Beginning.  Unfortunately most of the authors looked at this from the same perspective:  humans have evolved far beyond what they are now, sometimes so far beyond that they are difficult to sympathize with.  However, there are some interesting stories here.  The standout story is \\"Flow\\" by Lawrence C. Connolly.  In 16 pages, he has created a whole world, one the reader can understand, yet so unlike our own.  The inhabitants communicate in colors in a world threatened by an ancient evil who is faced by a reluctant hero.<br />This is Volume V in the Darkfire series.  Lovers of short fiction would certainly want to try the first four volumes if they haven't already.  There is always something to be gleaned from an anthology.	2003-08-05
US	49173158	R8IBIZ4DT6VN9	1570719454	433482862	Jefferson's Great Gamble: The Remarkable Story of Jefferson, Napoleon and the Men Behind the Louisiana Purchase	Books	4	6	9	N	N	From New Oleans to all of Louisiana	In Jefferson's Great Gamble, Charles A. Cerami gives the reader a look behind the scenes of the greatest real estate deal in American history.  We see all of the participants, some mere glimpses, others in-depth.  It was a moment in time when their strengths and weaknesses showed clearly.<br />Cerami has done a great service to those who study Early American history.  But it is the less dedicated students who may learn things they never knew.  For instance, we learn here about Robert Livingston, a man who has been nearly lost to history, yet the one who was present at the beginning of the negotiations between the United States and France.  The story opens with information on Livingston and how his relationships with the leaders of France made it all possible.  We learn, too, about the machinations used by Jefferson and Madison, from disinformation to sending Monroe to conclude the deal.  Going from seeking to purchase New Orleans, in order to secure use of the Mississippi, to being offered the whole of Louisiana, whose boundaries were only vaguely known, <br />Although some of the narrative is slightly disjointed, it is not difficult to follow the story.  The participants often seem petty and self-serving, yet their strength of character and dedication to their countries stand out.  This is a worthwhile read for anyone interested in the early history of America or the Napoleonic period.	2003-08-05
US	49173158	RQG2P0O4NH8A5	0812508424	990472454	Shadows Linger: A Novel of the Black Company (The Second Chronicle of The Black Company)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A second dose of the Black Company	In his follow-up book to The Black Company, Glen Cook continues the story of this mercenary unit in the service of the Lady.  Once more they are the elite unit she sends to trouble spots within her empire, sometimes helped by The Taken, creatures who were once mortal.  More often than not, those creating trouble for The Lady are the rebels who believe that the White Rose, a legend come true, will save them from her domination.<br />In this book, however, it isn't the rebels who must be subdued.  The Lady's husband, long buried but not forgotten, has plans to return and once more dominate the world and his wife.  His plans involve the catacombs of Juniper, a tavern owner, a homeless man, and one of the Black Company's own.  To make matters worse, Croaker and others of the Company possess a secret those in power must get back.<br />Once more, the action is intense.  The overall story seems very different from the first book.  In both, however, the ultimate goal is survival.  The characters stay pretty much the same and are as likable (or not) as they were in the first book.  They still struggle with their own senses of right and wrong.  In their business, nothing is black and white.  Well, maybe some things are, but that's part of the story.<br />This is a quick read.  The action draws the reader forward, almost against your will.  The plot is a bit thin, but the book doesn't suffer much from that.  Be sure to read The Black Company before taking on this one.	2003-06-26
US	49173158	RGVAHJPTIWSH9	0060512776	79009532	Redcoat	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good flavor of the times	Bernard Cornwell's Redcoat takes place during the American Revolution, largely in and around Philadelphia.  He uses numerous characters, both historic and fictional, to tell the story of the British occupation of that city.  Their lives become a tangle of rebel and loyalist, love and hate.<br />Sir William Howe commands the Redcoats, but it is Sam Gilpin, a private in his army, whose story intertwines with that of Jonathan Becket, a young rebel with a club foot.  They become friends and Sam helps Jonathan to survive a terrible leg wound.  Both fall in love with Caroline Fisher.  Complicating matters, Christopher Vane, a British officer, falls in love with Jonathan's widowed sister, Martha Crowl.  Being a rebel herself, she spurns Vane's advances, and he swears vengeance on her.<br />In this work, Cornwell is at his best when describing the battles, other military matters, and the milieu in which they occur.  He gives a very strong flavor of the times and the country.<br />Readers who enjoy this work, will also enjoy Cornwell's Sharpe series, for which he is rightly well known.  For a less fictional account of the Revolutionary War period, Alan Eckert's narrative history, Wilderness War, is an exciting and accurate portrayal of the campaign against the Indians in the Western New York and Pennsylvania.	2003-06-15
US	49173158	R35SRADVY4N90G	0441816533	199419133	Tomoe Gozen	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fighting her way back to honor and glory	Salmonson writes of an alternate world, Naipon, using her knowledge of Japanese culture and traditions.  As a woman, Tomoe Gozen, the heroine of this tale, is an unusual samurai warrior.  The differences between her and other samurai go beyond her sex, however.<br />When Tomoe Gozen dies in battle, serving the great warlord to whom she is pledged, her good friend Ushii makes a deal with an evil magician:  Bring her back to the land of the living and he will serve the magician, the enemy of the warlord.  Little does he know that the deal also means that his friend will not only end up losing herself, but she will also have to serve the same evil lord.  When she finally comes to herself, Ushii is doomed, and she leaves to wander the country as an unpledged warrior or ronin.  During her travels she experiences many adventures through which she regains both her honor and her place at the side of the daughter of the now dead warlord she had once served.<br />It becomes Tomeoe Gozen's duty to regain her mistress' inheritance.  In doing so, she can enhance her own reputation and further redeem her honor.<br />The battle scenes are quite vivid.  Although the overall writing style may be somewhat passive for some of today's readers, the story is well worth any needed effort.  Salmonson brings samurai and Naiponese culture to life and gives the reader insight into those cultures as well as a good story.<br />There are three novels featuring Tomoe Gozen, of which this is the first.  Readers who enjoy these would also enjoy Salmonson's \\"The Swordswoman.\\"  Readers who like strong female characters might also enjoy \\"Deathweave\\" and \\"Darkloom\\" by Cary Osborne or \\"Winter Queen\\" by Devin Cary.	2003-05-27
US	49173158	R1IXRQ1YVHNLPI	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Black Company in a Dark World	In The Black Company, Glen Cook has created a world of war, soldiers, treachery, and friendship.  It is all so believable.  Even the names of the characters, which relate to some physical or psychological attribute, hiding their real names, reminiscent of the French Foreign Legion.<br />As a mercenary group, they are for hire to whomever offers the best deal.  Although they will take on almost anyone's cause, their own is to survive with as much honor intact as they possibly can.  However, when they agree to fight for the Lady, might they have taken on more than they bargained for?  When they move north, they may find more magic than they are capable of fighting, and they take along a new member, whose ways are not those of the Company.  His name is Raven, and he has battles of his own.<br />This book is a fast and enjoyable read.  Cook's characters are well defined and, in spite of the objectivity with which they sometimes view death, are quite likable.  Except, of course, for the enemies, who are treacherous in the extreme.  But then, there are those whose alliances are somewhat fluid.  The men of The Company must be careful who they have at their backs.<br />Cook has written several of these books as well as other subjects and worlds.  Readers who enjoy these might also enjoy Jessica Amanda Salmonson's Tomoe Gozen series; although they have become more difficult to find, they are worth the effort.	2003-05-17
US	49173158	RLEACRR0E1RX2	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intricate, intriguing, great storytelling	In American Gods, Neil Gaiman has created a new mythology in which the old gods and the new gods battle for supremacy.  The story is intricate, the writing absorbing.  In the modern American setting, worship has taken on a new meaning.<br />The old gods have become less than godlike -- some are whiney or arrogant, even despondent, and they have lost many of the qualities that put their former worshipers in awe of them.  The new gods are less worshiped than they are part of everyday lives (e.g., the internet).  One has to wonder how many gods there are, and where they might find a place in the world of humans for whose attention they compete.<br />Gaiman's writing is always a joy and the worlds he creates are dark and intriguing.  In this work, however, so many threads are left dangling, so many paths end abruptly, adding little to the story.  Yet, once begun, the reader must finish this journey, even though the culmination might be clear early on.	2003-04-09
US	49173158	R1RB8WRRUG7S83	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gaiman finds and claims a new rabbit hole	Gaiman's Neverwhere is a new type of Wonderland adventure.  Contemporary in both setting and attitude, the tale runs under the city of London, sometimes surfacing in its streets and buildings, in a most dangerous and dark way.  Comparison with Alice and her adventures seems inevitable.<br />As with many protagonists in such stories, Richard Mayhew moves from the world he knows to one as alien as another planet, quite by accident.  As Twain said, &quot;No good deed goes unpunished.&quot;  And Richard is severely punished when he loses identity and place.  His only choice is to escape into the maze of this other world in hopes of finding himself and the world in which he was comfortable.<br />The characters are vivid and the reader either hates or loves them.  With the exception of Richard.  Considering what has happened to him, it is not surprising that he would let others control his actions.  However, a more proactive character might strengthen our attachment to him.  But he is neither hero nor anti-hero.  The world Gaiman has created under the very feet of Londoners is fascinating, following its own rules of behavior and its own level of violence and revenge.  There is magic there, both dark and light.  A world in which we would only want to spend a short time.<br />Readers who enjoy this tale might also enjoy the bizarre horror novels of Chet Williamson, and of course, the Adventures in Wonderland.	2003-03-23
US	49173158	R1L00O98IM15LZ	0394802012	766136102	All about Dinosaurs	Books	5	9	9	N	N	My first real book	Usually, when I do a review of books here on Amazon, I don't personalize it.  I try to be objective and describe what is both good and bad about the work.  However, Roy Chapman Andrews was about my first hero.  And this was my first real book, which I got when I was 8 years old.  I lost the original copy, but a friend of mine found a 1956 edition which I treasure.<br />From this book, I learned about different types of dinosaurs, how to pronounce names from triceratops to iguanadon, how fossils were made, and how scientists search for what they have left behind, from bones to footprints.  The most amazing thing, though, was that in the Gobi Desert, Andrews found real, bona fide, fossilized eggs.  What a marvelous discovery.  Even he expressed the thrill of discovering how baby dinosaurs came into the world, something that had not been known until then.<br />The volume I have is indexed for easy reference, has black and white illustrations with some yellow coloring, maps, and charts.  It is easy for a child to read and understand, so that it is a great introduction to the science of paleontology.	2003-03-23
US	49173158	R12I9LN1EQ7WAF	0810934302	758269380	Maps and Mapmakers of the Civil War	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A collection of art, both historic and informative	Earl B. McElfresh has performed a valuable service to students of the War between the States and lovers of vintage maps.  He has gathered these maps from many sources and reproduced them in a single volume to be studied and admired.  One can not only learn the topography of many sites and battlefields in the 1860s, but also gain insight into the methods used to produce such maps.<br />Information on the topography was of vital importance to any army, whether planning a large campaign or a single battle.  Both the Union army and the Confederate army employed many men capable of creating detailed images of the lay of the land.  One of the most famous is Jed Hotchkiss, mapmaker to Stonewall Jackson.  Several of his maps are reproduced in this volume.  Using every medium at their disposal, from pencil to water color, he and others created detailed or rough drawings.  Most are worthy of framing and hanging on the wall.<br />This is a valuable reference work for students of the war and students of mapmaking.  It is a large volume and the details stand out.	2003-03-23
US	49173158	RV7DJPWK67NS7	0553281011	684877555	Conagher: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Like the old cowboys -- gritty &amp; terse	Conagher is the name of the main character in this western by Louis L'Amour.  He is a loner, who as he is growing older, needs to find a permanent place to hang his hat.<br />Mrs. Teale, a woman who has been widowed without knowing it, runs a stage way station and dreams of raising cattle when her husband returns with the stock he is supposed to be buying.  Taking care of her two step-children, she shows courage and foresight.  Once she realizes that her husband is not coming back, she welcomes Conagher into her home and heart.<br />The descriptions of the western landscape and the people who lived there in the late 19th century make this book worth reading.	2003-02-17
US	49173158	RYH6KSFLNTK0G	0812514459	322496509	Thomas The Rhymer	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Another world, another time -- and that's the truth	Ellen Kushner has used an old ballad to create a fascinating and lovely tale of a young harpist and singer.  Thomas appears one day at the door of an older and childless couple in the country who take him in and begin to love him as a son.  He in turn, loves and respects them, all the while finding himself fascinating to and fascinated by a neighbor girl whose fiery temperament charms him.  Off and on he reappears, leaving behind the courts of the nobility where he sings and plays for their pleasure.<br />One day, while visiting his friends, he wanders onto Eildon Hills and meets the queen of the faeries.  She takes him with her to her home where he abides for 7 years.  He becomes her lover, her plaything, and a challenge to others in the land, because he is forbidden to speak to anyone except the queen.  Having fulfilled his bargain, the queen returns Thomas to his own world, burdened with a terrible gift:  He can only speak the truth.<br />Told by Gavin, the elderly farmer, Thomas, and the girl whom he marries upon his return, the story of the life of True Thomas unwinds almost as a song does.  There is melody, harmony, and many verses.  For those who come to believe, the end will bring tears to their eyes.<br />Readers who enjoy this book might also enjoy Kushner's earlier novel, Swordspoint.  She does not write often, but she writes well.	2003-01-24
US	49173158	R2SBX0IXZAJP77	0312152426	410554316	Way Down Yonder in the Indian Nation: Writings from America's Heartland	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A state so few know	When a person first moves to Oklahoma, one of the things that stands out is that, like the rest of the nation, Oklahomans don't really know where they fit into the overall picture of our country.  This fact is clearly described by Michael Wallis in the beginning of this series of essays.  He also describes many of the events, people, and customs that make Oklahoma what it is.<br />From Indian Territory to statehood, barbecue to the &quot;cow thieves and outlaws reunion,&quot; from Route 66 to oil, the state has a breadth of history that is both large and small.  But always fascinating.  As a transplant himself, Wallis has tried to find what Oklahoma is, and has done a good job.  This is a wonderfully informative read for both Okies and others who have no idea where Oklahoma is.<br />Readers who enjoy this taste of history might also enjoy some of Wallis' other books, such as Route 66: The Mother Road and Pretty Boy: The Life and Times of Charles Arthur Floyd.	2003-01-23
US	49173158	R2EFULWPSCJQ2Z	092738907X	856527179	Beastchild	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Interesting idea	In this early novel, Koontz describes a world which has been conquered by an alien race, the naoli.  The differences between the two races erupted into war after they met in space and found they were unable to communicate effectively.<br />As the story begins, Hulann, a naoli, is digging through the ruins of an American city when he discovers a man child hiding in the basement of a building.  The boy saves his life and Hulann tells him to run away and he won't turn him in.  The boy won't go; he's been injured and can't go very far.  A friendship develops, as surprising to both of them as it is dangerous.<br />Published in 1970, Koontz's future as a best selling author is foreshadowed.  The premise is interesting and the story stirring.  Fans of Koontz will enjoy this hard to find science fiction story.	2003-01-03
US	49173158	R2YE4BPJ682FLT	0618195580	11234952	The Fellowship of the Ring Photo Guide (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pictures to take you back	This Photo Guide to The Fellowship of the Ring is a lovely collection of pictures from the first Lord of the Rings movie.  The captions and text are minimal, but appropriate.  Although designed for children, anyone who would like an inexpensive book that can tease your memories of the movie, this is an excellent one.<br />Beginning with Suaron's tower in Mordor and Frodo sitting in a tree, to the battle in Moria, ending with The Fellowship leaving Lothlorien, the photos are good representations of the story line.  Colors are clear and crisp.  Only two pictures were omitted which should have appeared here:  Arwen with Frodo on horseback at the river, with the horse rearing, and the guardians carved into the cliffs on either side of the river.<br />Anyone who enjoys this book would also be interested in the Photo Guide for The Two Towers, also published by Houghton-Mifflin.	2002-12-30
US	49173158	R308SG8DEZGJBV	0517120771	69202422	Tolkien Bestiary	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Beautiful but beware	David Day's Tolkien Bestiary is a lovely book, filled with color and monochrome drawings and maps.  Arranged alphabetically, it makes researching races and groups of creatures fairly easy.  The drawings are beautiful.<br />The reader must keep in mind, however, that this is not a full encyclopedia of Tolkien's world.  You won't find a listing for Aragorn under &quot;A&quot;, for instance.  Also, the descriptions of various races and animals have sometimes been enlarged from the original.  This is an interesting read in itself, but do not expect this to be completely true to The Hobbit or The Lord of the Rings.<br />Most readers who pick up this book will probably already have read The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings.  If not, go to them first.	2002-12-17
US	49173158	R2NH6YL8E3G3KB	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Visit the beginning	J.R.R. Tolkien's The Hobbit is the beginning of the stories of that race of halflings which is continued in The Lord of the Rings trilogy.  It begins when Galdalf the Grey visits Bilbo Baggins' home, Bag End, followed within minutes by a company of dwarves.  Surprised to find that they have come to include him in their trek to the lair of Smaug, a dangerous dragon, Bilbo at first declines the honor.  After all, Hobbits never go on adventures.<br />However, Gandalf has chosen well.  Bilbo at last agrees to accompany the dwarves, in itself a most unusual circumstance.  But it is not an easy trek they have chosen to undertake.  Thirst, starvation, capture, and death await them at every turn.  The most dangerous item encountered, however, is a simple gold ring which has not seen the light of day for many years.  What will be the price if Bilbo liberates the ring?<br />With The Lord of the Rings movies now being released, this is a wonderful time to revisit the beginning of the Baggins family adventures.  For those who have never read Tolkien, his style may be difficult at first.  The difficulty of the names may seem daunting.  But once readers begin, these will not seem to be barriers.  And, like most of those who have read and loved the Hobbits, they will return again and again.<br />All fantasy readers should enjoy both The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, as they were the stories on which much modern fantasy is based.  There are also numerous books, such as bestiaries and encyclopedias, which add to the experience.	2002-12-17
US	49173158	R1MZ0WCYZ8BRUN	0815411251	127212306	A Negro Explorer at the North Pole	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting but incomplete	Matthew Henson's life was different from those of many other blacks of his day.  He was privileged to be in on one of the greatest adventures of the early 20th century:  reaching the North Pole.  Taken from and based on a diary he kept at the time, A Negro Explorer at the North Pole provides a good timeline and basic account of the trek.  Accompanying Commander Peary and Henson in the final stretch were Eskimos and dogs.<br />The account as written by Henson, speaks well of Peary and their relationship.  However, the cover blurb tells a bit of a different story.  Of tension between the two men.  Of Peary's intentions not to have Henson reach the Pole with him. And of vengeful actions by Peary afterwards, such as stealing Henson's photographs.<br />If Henson had given more descriptions of the day-to-day efforts, the reader might have a fuller understanding of the relationship between the two men, as well as the amount of effort and the toll on the men that actually occurred.  Included in this edition are articles written by Henson to counter Peary's not giving him credit for his contribution to the expedition.  These were included by the editor and add to our understanding of events.<br />There are many published biographies of Peary and his expeditions to the North Pole for those who are interested in adventure literature.  For those who might like more on the contribution of blacks in history, try Fire on the Beach by David Wright &amp; David Zoby, the story of the Pea Island Lifesavers.	2002-12-15
US	49173158	R1UQQSMWAX275C	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dark as it is, still a page turner.	Upon hearing that Goblet of Fire was over 700 pages long, many people exclaimed that children would not read it.  It's too long, they said.  But read it they have.  Perhaps because it was no different than reading two of the first three books.  Whatever the reason, volume 4 in the Harry Potter series is as much of a page turner as the preceding 3.<br />This tale opens, as usual, with the bane of Harry's existence:  the Riddle house.  It moves to the Quidditch World Cup where ominous events occur, then as is usual, to Hogwarts.  Just when the reader is ready to settle into the familiar world of witch and wizard schooling, Rowling disrupts everything with the Triwizard Tournament.  Thus, enter a host of new characters and new information on what it means to be a wizard.<br />By far the darkest of the series, Goblet of Fire moves the story of Harry's growing up and education along.  And at 14, the normal human side of him is maturing, too.  Along with the fantasy elements, coming of age, and traditional English school boy story line, a new element has been added:  young romance.<br />Some readers may be put off by the darkness of this installment of the Harry Potter saga.  Others might find the book over long; some more detailed editing would have solved that.  Still, this is a satisfying continuation of the saga.  The book also continues the wonderful task of getting America's young people to read.  There are so many books out there that children and young adults might enjoy, such as \\"Storm Warriors\\" by Elisa Carbone, and the Catwings stories by Ursula LeGuin.	2002-12-05
US	49173158	R1UMRKWROMF5RF	0385320132	741120301	Far Appalachia: Following the New River North	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A place in time and history	In traveling the New River from North Carolina to West Virginia, Noah Adams found a part of America that sometimes stands still in time, and other times seems to go backward.  Part of his journey relates to an earlier epic of his own life spent in Appalachia.  Whatever the reasons, he paints a picture of the river's path that is both nostalgic and distant.<br />Coal mining was a big industry in much of this section of the country, but much of it is gone now.  Towns, mines, have almost completely disappeared, while others are ugly blots on the landscape.  And still, the New River cuts its way through mountains, creating gorges, south to north, in the same way it has done for millennia.  Bridges cross it.  People live beside it.  And a new industry -- whitewater rafting, kayaking, and other touristy pursuits -- has encroached on its waters.<br />As Adams traveled the river, he met professional guides, herbalists, and others who make their livings on the river.  Many, perhaps most of them love the river.  Each knows some of its history, and their stories often only whet our appetites.<br />Readers of travels in America would enjoy this book.  However, someone who once lived in North Carolina, Virginia, or West Virginia, having some knowledge of both history and geography of those areas, will be reminded of their time there and stories they may have heard.  It might even make some of those who moved away want to go back.  Even if only for a vist.	2002-12-01
US	49173158	R359V5L23FU92D	1572331690	115623383	Tennessee's Forgotten Warriors: Frank Cheatham and His Confederate Division	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Forgotten no longer	Losson has written a book about a military leader and his division of the War Between the States, both of whom were nearly forgotten in the wealth of books about that war.  Both a biography and a history, the author stays focused on his subjects, not letting the broader picture of the war distract him.<br />Benjamin Franklin Cheatham, a career soldier who served in the War with Mexico, commanded Hood's corps for a while.  His entire career in the war was served in the western theater, most of it in and around Tennessee.  The war wasn't just with the Yankees when Braxton Bragg commanded the corps, for the two men despised each other.<br />Cheatham was a man who found the going rough between the two wars, but made his mark in the later conflict, in spite of accusations against his character.  After the war, he was more successful as a citizen than before, heading the Tennessee State Penitentiary system for time.  However, over the years, with most interest in Lee, Grant, and the eastern theater, he was nearly forgotten<br />This book is well written and an easy read, but could have used the skill of a good proofreader.  Typos and other errors are sometimes distracting.  Readers interested in the Civil War, particularly the western theater, will find this an interesting account.  They might also enjoy &quot;Five Tragic Hours&quot; by McDonough and Connelly, and &quot;Shiloh: In Hell before Night&quot; by McDonough.	2002-11-23
US	49173158	R18NLI3NGVHP1F	1403304815	174676632	This was the Place: The Darker Side of Mormon Zion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	History of a people in turmoil	This Was the Place is the story of the fate of the Indians of Utah and Colorado in the 1800s.  Like many Native American tribes, the Utes, Goshutes, and related tribes, were pushed from one piece of land to another, made promises by the government that were never kept, and were ignored when they were hungry and poor and their ability to feed themselves had been taken away from them.<br />Weicks gives a well-researched, detailed account of the machinations of government, civilians, military, and Indians as all jockeyed for position.  He has used primary and secondary sources, and interviews with historians and experts of today.  It's an intelligent accounting of who was there and the sequence of events.<br />Anyone interested in the history of Utah and Colorado, the tribes living in that area, and relations between white and Indian, will find this book of great interest.	2002-11-23
US	49173158	R1N2VD37EIYQM7	0375404945	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A hero on the line between love and hate	A. Scott Berg has written a sympathetic biography of one of the greatest heroes in American history.  In this abridged version, the reader gets the highlights of a long and controversial career.  Most attention is given, of course, to Lindbergh's flight from New York to Paris and the kidnapping and death of his first son, Charles A. Lindbergh, Jr.<br />Berg gives a picture of a man who was himself awed by the adulation of a nation -- of a world -- that praised his heroic flight across the Atlantic in 1927.  Such an undertaking took great planning and attention to detail.  Lindbergh needed to control his environment and events that surrounded him.  The same need was evident when his son was kidnapped and, apparently, killed in an accidental fall.  Throughout the investigation and subsequent arrest and trial of Hauptmann, he insisted on being present and making important decisions.<br />Such control did not work well in his marriage, however.  At first, Anne Morrow Lindburgh enjoyed the strength of this tall, lanky heroic figure.  However, given her own creative nature and the desire of most people to have some say in their lives, she eventually asserted herself, even to the point of having a love affair with another man.  She supported her husband during the worst part of his life when his admiration for Nazi Germany, and his believe that America should stay out of the war, caused many Americans to despise him.  She suffered through the hate mail and phone calls that swamped their home and their lives.  Once World War II began, much of the vituperation abated as he found ways in which to serve his country both honorably and courageously. In the end, she was at her husband's side.<br />Critiquing an abridgement is often difficult, because it includes the work of the author and the editing required to shorten the work.  Then there is the narrator, whose voice, inflection, and emphasis can make a different.  In an abridgement, one has to wonder if anything really important was left out.  For anyone looking for the basic facts of this multi-faceted subject, this audio does very well.  Eric Stoltz, the narrator did a creditable job.  (The only criticism might be of his use of a German accent when reading the contents of the ransom notes.)<br />This is a book for anyone interested in the history of this country from the early 20th century into the 60s, and anyone who loves American biography.  Those interested in General Schwarzkopf, late of the U.S. Army, might also find this of interest, as I believe his father's role in the Lindbergh kidnapping is covered here.	2002-11-16
US	49173158	R3BVGED0HDR26V	0679439781	289325498	Confederates in the Attic : Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sometimes we laugh at ourselves	Confederates in the Attic is one man's introduction and learning about people who still fight the War Between the States.  Tony Horwitz discovered reenactors and others to whom the war has a strong meaning in their lives.  What he finds is both amusing and poignant, and sometimes jolts many of us out of our complacent notion that reconstruction was a success and now it's over.<br />As he visits battlefields and meets people, Horwitz meets some of the most interesting, and sometimes bizarre, people one can imagine.  These are not your ordinary reenactors and Civil War buffs.  They take their history seriously, some too much so.  Like those who believe it's a shame that no one actually dies when a battle is re-created (perhaps tongue in cheek?).  Horwitz went looking for the hardcore and he found them.<br />His search took him almost exclusively through the south, where most of the battles were fought.  Those Civil War buffs he finds are partial to grey uniforms and the cause of the Confederacy.  One does wonder what would have happened had he gone north.  Yes, there are reenactment groups in those states, too.  Where else would one find the boys in blue on that side of the battlefield?<br />This is a book that could whet one's interest in the War Between the States.  There is certainly a plethora of books and magazines to satisfy such an interest, from accounts of battles to memoirs of participants and biographies of individuals.  It is often difficult to find authors who can give an unbiased account, but that is part of the fun.	2002-11-08
US	49173158	R1URPFLZ4O3MTL	0385311826	535787336	Marching Through Georgia	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Does one have to be Southern?	In 1864, General Sherman, Union general, began his infamous (or famous) trek through Georgia, vowing to make Georgia howl.  Howl it did.  And still does.  More than a hundred years later, Jerry Ellis walked the same path.  It was a trek in search of his own Southerness, and an homage to his father who had died not long before.  Along the way, he met people who still remember Sherman and the devastation he and his army left in their wake as though it were yesterday.  He found Southern hospitality.  He found a South that finds it hard to forget.<br />This is a personal story, not meant to simply tell the history of the places and people he finds along the way.  Their histories are interwoven with his own, their presents forming a framework for Ellis' coming to terms with the possibility of losing the woman he loves because of the journey, and with the death of his father.  It adds to what he knows about himself and who he is, a Southerner with ties to the War Between the States, and part Cherokee with ties to a past unrelated in many ways to that war.<br />This is an interesting view of history and how it affects people's lives, even generations later.  At times, Ellis becomes too bogged down in his own problems and we wonder if he misses telling about other things we might have found interesting.  But all in all, this is a book for Southerners who know and understand their ties to the South, or who are still trying to find those ties and weave them back into their lives.<br />Readers who like this book might also want to read other of Ellis' journeys.  Also \\"Womenfolks: Growing up Down South\\" by Shirley Abbott might be interest.  They might also like to read an account of Sherman's march to the sea, such as those included in the nuemrous Sherman biographies, or sets of histories of the war, including the Time Life Civil War volume \\"Sherman's March.\\"	2002-11-01
US	49173158	R39SVZFHIVHE5Q	0812527186	892640630	Soulstorm	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hell on a Pennsylvania mountaintop	Chet Williamson has once again written a horror story that is both inventive and scary.  When five people are sealed inside a fortess-like mansion on Pine Mountain, one knows he will probably be dead before their 31 days are done.  Three know they will be worth a million dollars each.  However, they find out very soon that the old stories about the house are true and they are not alone.<br />If things get too bad, they all have emergency keys that will release the steel plates closing off doors and windows.  But very soon, their numbers are lowered.  Those left struggle to survive until two men stationed outside the house open the doors.  If only they weren't the only ones making plans.<br />Soulstorm is a quick read, a real page-turner, with believable characters.  Readers who like this book might also enjoy Williamson's Ash Wednesday.  Both may be out of print, but they are worth finding.	2002-10-24
US	49173158	R1I95HVK8CVD7G	0934426619	862945619	Ed O'Kelley: The Man Who Murdered Jesse James' Murderer	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Short history of a forgotten man	One finds this book by accident rather than by looking for it.  There probably aren't many people who know the name of the man who killed Bob Ford, assassin of Jesse James.  Ford died in relative obscurity himself.  His killer even more so.<br />This is a short book, only 119 pages, including the author's bio, acknowledgements, and intro.  O'Kelley's life is apparently not easy to detail.  His birth to a woman who married a man other than the father of his child, was the beginning of a troubled life.  Born in Benton, Tenn., O'Kelley was sent to live with his mother's mother.  There is speculation that he ran with the James gang as a young man.  However, by 1892, he was living in Creede, Colo., where he met up with Bob Ford.  Accounts vary somewhat on the specifics of Ford's death at O'Kelley's hands, but that fact is well documented.<br />This is an interesting biography of a character who lived and fought in the old west.  It's a quick read, with some surprises.  Readers interested in stories of this period, the border wars in Kansas and Missouri, the James and/or Younger gangs, will find this a nice addition to those histories.	2002-10-23
US	49173158	R1FSVSB3YJEBQ6	0679424555	211106251	The Devil Knows How to Ride: The True Story of William Clark Quantrill and His Confederate Raiders	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Never fully at rest	William Clarke Quantrill, Confederate raider, self-proclaimed officer in the CSA, and many other things, good and ill, depending on who is speaking.  Edward E. Leslie presents a well-researched biography of the guerilla who roamed the trans-Mississippi theater of the War Between the States, harrassing Union troops and worrying Confederate generals.  There was a certain genius in the man followed by the James boys and Bloody Bill Anderson, and who led the infamous raid on Lawrence, Kansas.  However, this is not only a story of the life of one man.  Leslie also gives a good account of the cruel conditions present in that part of the country before and during the war.  He relates more hatred and cruelty than in nearly all the rest of the country combined.  It is even said in some quarters that the war began on the border between Kansas and Missouri.<br />The story did not end with Quantrill's death, either.  The fight over the man's bones up to today is both interesting and bizarre.  At the end of the book, his bones still had not all been buried in one place.  In some ways, this is the most interesting part of all.<br />Although the organization of the book often leads to a bit of confusion, anyone interested in the border wars will enjoy it, as will many Civil War buffs.  They might also enjoy the movie, \\"Ride with the Devil,\\" which tells the story of young men who rode with Quantrill.	2002-10-23
US	49173158	RJDQ2KHQ3512Y	0312272839	95549866	The Burning: Massacre, Destruction, and the Tulsa Race Riot of 1921	Books	4	2	3	N	N	So few knew	From the 1880s, race relations in this country started deteriorating rapidly.  Hangings, beatings, burnings took place all over the country.  As rampant as such incidents were, who would have expected the same violence in Tulsa, Okla. in June 1921?  It was a booming oil town, rising out of the prairie to great heights, both in money and buildings.  On one side of the tracks lived the whites, many rolling in oil money.  On the other side, called Greenwood, the black population, some of them rolling in money, too, earned by supplying services to those on the other side of town.<br />For years, a truce existed; some took for granted that it would always exist.  Until the arrest of a young black man accused of assaulting a white woman in an elevator.  By some, it was said to be an accident.  By others, a deliberate attack.  However, as events progress, the truth doesn't much matter.  Emotions run too high:  The blacks have no intention of letting the young man be lynched.  The whites will not allow -- even fear -- interference from across the tracks.  Hatred and fear drive people to action.  When the dust and flames settled, nearly all of Greenwood was gone.  Whites and blacks had been killed, how many, no one knows for sure.  Many of the residents of Greenwood had left town for good.<br />This is a clear telling of events that began May 31, 1921, with the arrest of Dick Rowland for the assault on a white woman who may have been his girl friend.  After all the years of keeping the story quiet, of lost accounts and memories, the number of dead can't be stated accurately.  A newspaper front page, charged with helping to push Tulsans into violence, is gone.  Many questions left unanswered.<br />The Burning is a quick read, but a story filled with horror.  However, the kindness and courage of some of the residents are not left out.  This, the most recent telling of the burning of Greenwood, reminds us of the dark side of our history and should help in keeping us from repeating history.  It is a book for those unafraid to see the intricacies of our past, and for those who would hide from it.	2002-10-06
US	49173158	R2VBPAHHFG5Q7Q	0884119572	951345351	Washington's Lady	Books	4	13	13	N	N	If only it were true	Washington's Lady is a fictionalized account of the life of Martha Washington.  In it, Thane has woven a tale around what is known of the first President and his devoted wife.  It is well-researched and sympathetic to an historic figure about whom so little is actually known.<br />There are moments when the prose is almost lyrical.  For instance, when the diminutive Martha (barely 5 feet tall) is surrounded by army officers who tower over her in their uniforms and swords at their sides.  And then, when she tells of Washington's first visit to Mt. Vernon after many years at war.  He arrives in the middle of the night, everyone is asleep, and he has to knock at his own door.  When he enters and sees Martha at the top of the stairs he bounds up the steps to her.  That is a scene we can only hope actually happened.<br />This is a jewel of a story for anyone interested in early American history and who don't mind a little speculation into the lives of those who played such prominent roles.  It's a love story without being sappy.	2002-09-30
US	49173158	R30OQH9PSAX893	0399143483	885954525	Toxin	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Blood & gore-- & it ain't all human	In this thriller, Robin Cook pits a cardiac surgeon, Kim Reggis, against shoddy practices in a slaughter house, conspiracy between meat packer and the USDA, and a medical system that even the good doctor cannot cope with.  The problem?  E. Coli 0157:H7.  It's found in hamburger under certain conditions, and in undercooked meat, it's a real killer.  In this tale, its presence changes the lives of many people.<br />The action is fast and often deadly.  It's clear that Cook knows his stuff when it comes to medical matters, and he did a good deal of research into the meat industry.  The narrator, Jason Culp, is very good.<br />The story could have been improved if the characters had been a little less stupid about doing things they knew nothing about.  Dr. Reggis did not start out as a sympathetic character, in spite of his personal tragedy, and his conversion was a little too complete.  And the gore, both in the ER and in the slaughter house, could have been less graphic.<br />Readers of medical thrillers and fans of Mr. Cook probably like this book a lot.  Even the recorded version, although abridged, read well.	2002-09-28
US	49173158	R3OBM4EYM9SA9P	0679735429	76659216	Shiloh: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A battle from each side	Shelby Foote has maintained that he is a story teller above all things.  Yet, he has come to be considered a leading expert on the American Civil War because of his trilogy on the war.  In Shiloh:  A Novel, he gives us a fictional account of the two-day battle of April 1862.<br />Foote tells the story of 6 different participants in the battle, both Union and Confederate.  The men are tired, scared, brave, leaders, and runners.  The book is short, only 226 pages, but we feel their fear and excitment, even if only for a moment, along with their short-sighted view of the fighting.  Here there is no grand view of the entire battle nor of the tactics and planning.  These are largely the fighters who carry out the orders, not knowing why most of the time, only that they are soldiers and this is what they do.<br />Originally published well before the Shaara trilogy, Shiloh ranks with them and The Red Badge of Courage in the emotion and story telling.  The reader becomes part of the action for a short while, until you can almost smell the gunpowder.	2002-09-25
US	49173158	R2MK0Q026TBBWT	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Readable and informative	It is daunting to try to review a book that nearly everyone seems to love.  And after hearing McCullough speak on C-span about writing this book and how he came to admire our second President so very much, a reviewer might want to take a second look at anything he or she did not like.<br />This biography is a highly readable one.  Even the story of Adams' last years are not dull.  It is quite clear that he was an important part of America's gaining independence, not from a military standpoint, but from a diplomatic one.  He did work tirelessly on acquiring funds, getting France's assistance, and sometimes making himself disliked in certain quarters.  However, it is clear that McCullough liked him very well.<br />He did not, however, like Jefferson at all well.  One gets the impression that in comparing the two friends McCullough felt compelled to take sides, in spite of the fact that Adams and Jefferson made up toward the ends of their lives.<br />Although McCullough worked extensively from primary sources, a reader should probably also read biographies of other figures from the early American period to form a more complete picture of both Adams and his times.  Since Washington seemed not to like or dislike Adams, a biography of the first President offers some insight.  And there are numerous biographies of Jefferson and Franklin.  It was a complicated time and the relationships among the actors were equally complicated.	2002-09-25
US	49173158	RZUNPY4D1D2J9	0743229878	92105276	Mount Vernon Love Story: A Novel of George and Martha Washington	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Charming but not much substance	This novel's subtitle describes one part of the story, the title another.  From the introduction, this is Mary Higgins Clark's first published novel, originally titled \\"Aspire to the Heavens.\\"  It tells the story of the love she feels she discovered between George and Martha Washington.  However, his love for Mount Vernon was just as powerful, and very real.<br />Told in small chapters that run from the end of his presidency to the past when he first met Martha, the story skips many of the important events in Washington's career.  It does tell of some of the things we do know about his relationship with Martha.  He worried about her spoiling her children.  He loved Jacky and Patsy very much, and the latter did die in his arms.  And he and Martha (also called Patsy) raised Jacky's youngest two children as their own.  Since Martha burned all but a very few examples of their correspondence, not much else can be known for certain of their feelings for one another.<br />The lack of substance makes this small book unsatisfying, although it's a pleasant read.  In places it evokes the times and how people lived.  For a more in-depth fictional story of the lives of these two, readers may want to try \\"Washington's Lady\\" by Elswyth Thane.  It can be difficult to find, but is worth the effort.  She too depicts their relationship based on love and respect, but in much greater depth.	2002-09-18
US	49173158	R29EBLXYD39C23	0399146369	109258524	The Last Precinct (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Is there an editor in the house?	This is the latest in the adventures of Kaye Scarpetta, Virginia State's chief medical examiner.  As usual, Cornwell keeps her characters off-balance by both events and the horrific nature of those events.  Much is revealed about some of the continuing characters, including Benton, who died a couple of books ago.<br />There is always a bizarreness to Scarpetta's life, but never more than in this tale.  She is stalked by a man known as Le Loup Garou (the werewolf) whose real name is Jean Baptiste Chandonne.  There are a number of murders, that may or may not be related.  And Richmond's cowardly DA arranges to have Chandonne tried in New York City, where only one of his crimes is known to have occurred.  More outrage for Scarpetta.<br />As usual the story is as much about Scarpetta as it is the criminals and victims.  The descriptions of the forensic science is detailed.  Sometimes too much so.  It's as if Cornwell wants to let us know everything she has learned about the field.  With a recorded volume, it is more difficult to just skim over the wealth of detail.  A good editor could have tightened up the exposition in many places.<br />Ms. Reading, the reader, has a gift for accents, but occasionally loses them as dialogue becomes lengthy.  <br />This is an apt continuation of the Scarpetta story and Cornwell's vast following will enjoy it.  The gruesome world of forensic science is a fascinating one for those of us who can visit for a time then move on.  In many ways Cornwell's books featuring Scarpetta have been a great addition to police procedurals and thrillers.	2002-09-17
US	49173158	RJ6U094AD9XX2	0152275177	530476060	The Fifth of March: A Story of the Boston Massacre	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A good period piece	This is the story of a young girl, Rachel Marsh, indentured as a servant to John Adams and his wife.  It takes place during the period of the Boston Massacre, which occured on March 5, 1770.<br />The story is well written and one gets a great sense of time and place.  Feelings were at fever pitch.  And John Adams showed his mettle when he agreed to defend the British soldiers accused of killing innocent civilians.  Unfortunately, Rachel meets and gets a crush on one of the young soldiers.  To help him, she must defy the wishes of the Adamses.<br />The only thing I might have changed was Rachel's defiance of her mentors.  The Adams family not only treated her kindly, but Mrs. Adams had begun helping her put together a trousseau for when she married.  Her fraternizing with the British soldier could have put Adams in a much worse predicament than he was already in. <br />Although written for a young adult audience, this book is written well enough to be enjoyed by persons of any age.  Another book of a historical nature that readers might enjoy is Storm Warriors by Elisa Carbone.	2002-09-16
US	49173158	R2CBA6LIDA4SC3	0156005832	388617595	Out of America: A Black Man Confronts Africa	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A courageous look at today's Africa	Keith B. Tichburg, author of this book, is a journalist who has spent most of his professional life on other continents.  When he got the assignment to move to Africa from Asia, he thought he was in many ways going home.<br />What he found was graft, terror, and cruelty.  In a straight forward honest way, Mr. Tichburg tells the reader about what he saw, and his reaction to it.  His narrative is powerful and moving and informative.  In the end, he left Africa with the sense of his Americaness.  One gets the feeling that was the real trip home.<br />There has been burning criticism of this work, most of which expected something more than Mr. Tichburg intended.  In his own words, this was written as a journilist's record of what he saw in the 3 years he was there and his reaction to it, as a black man, in the end as an American.<br />This book should be read by anyone interested in modern Africa, or in the experience of a journalist who saw 21 sub-Saharan countries up close and personal.	2002-09-14
US	49173158	R19HOH8X41YR0	0831721928	178868217	Recollections of a Confederate Staff Officer (Civil War Library)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A delightful Civil War autobiography	As Civil War autobiographies go, this one is more delightful than informative.  Well, Sorrel does tell us what he saw during the war, much of which he spent as adjutant to Lt. General James Longstreet.  And in that capacity, he saw a lot.  Near the end of the war, after Longstreet was wounded at the Wilderness, he was given a command of his own.  Not long afterward he, himself, was seriously wounded.<br />Written at the suggestion of his wife while he recovered from an illness, the general gives a ground level view of the war as a young soldier.  Although privy to many decisions made by his superiors, he was not in on the decision making.  Sometimes there is a certain naivete about his observances.<br />This more personal view of the battles and times between would be of interest to any student of the Civil War.  It is a valuable story, if only for his view of the controversial Longstreet.	2002-09-13
US	49173158	R3J7X2DDA612L5	0471175781	313575904	The White Tecumseh: A Biography of General William T. Sherman	Books	4	19	23	N	N	A man we love to hate	This is a biography of William Tecumseh Sherman by Stanley P. Hirshson, Professor at Queens College, City University of New York.  On the surface, it seems to be an un-biased story of the life of a very complicated man.<br />Like so many Civil War generals on the Union side, Sherman was almost a failure in civilian life.  He tried his hand at many professions, but never really made enough money to support his growing family.  In the army, however, he had moments of brilliance.  And brutality, evidenced most clearly in his march to the sea.  He could send his men into a town with orders to destroy it, then wander through the same town afterward looking for friends who lived there when he knew them.  He admitted that many of the soldiers he commanded during that time were not much more than thieves and ruffians.<br />The book starts slowly and ends the same.  Most of Sherman's story is the Civil War, four years of privation, desperation, and triumph.  Maligned by his enemies, again as were most successful generals, his fights after the war were political, although he never sought political office.  Rather his ambitions were for himself as the highest ranking officer in the U.S. Army, and for the Army itself.<br />Although this is a scholarly work, it is an easy read, especially for a Civil War buff.  There are moments when the reader will feel she is attaining some insight into his personality.  But those moments slip away quite often.  Because of this, the reader might wonder if something is being held back.  For instance, I would like to have seen more details of the post-Civil War Army policies toward the Native Americans, something Sherman had much to do with.<br />This is a must read for the Civil War scholar, American military history fan, and those interested in 19th century America.  Sherman lived in much of the U.S. and details of these places in his time add to our understanding of life when our great-grandparents were young.	2002-09-12
US	49173158	RLK14ZZA9ZYOQ	0375806644	207806457	Storm Warriors	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Informative and a good story	In the world of 1895, Nathan, a young Negro boy, dreams of becoming one of the black surfmen on Pea Island, saving the lives of sailors and passengers shipwrecked off the coast of North Carolina.  When his father tells him the odds are against him, Nathan believes the problem is racism.  However, in his first summer on the island, he learns there are other hindrances, and perhaps other dreams.<br />This book, inspired by real life characters, tells a part of American history many of us have never seen or heard.  The men of the life-saving stations, both black and white, were brave and true to their professions.  It's a good read for young and old.<br />The only thing that did not quite ring true was the language of the characters.  Most spoke near perfect English and given their times and their backgrounds, there should have been at least a hint of a lack of education, perhaps even of their southernness.<br />Elisa Carbone has created a good read, a story for anyone interested in the dangerous North Carolina coast, American history in the late 19th century, or in the dreams of the young.	2002-09-11
US	49173158	R674QKPAXZRHQ	1888952377	983806121	May I Quote You, General Longstreet?: Observations and Utterances of the South's Great Generals	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting insight	This is one of a series of books with quotes by and about \\"The South's Great Generals.\\"  A slim volume, it takes only a short time to read through.<br />I enjoyed this collection of quotes, as much for what his Union enemy's said about Longstreet, as what he said himself.  However, reading the quotes regarding the criticisms of Lee's Old Warhorse in the battle of Gettysburg are almost painful.  Yet they had to be included to give as full a picture of the man and the soldier as can be done in so short a space.<br />Readers and scholars of the War Between the States will enjoy this book, perhaps even keep it at hand to browse through at any time.	2001-10-05
