US	49175467	RZLI56W7EHHSU	0306812401	12796708	Gettysburg July 1	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	One of the best Gettysburg books I've read	First off, when you get this book, make sure it's the revised edition. Amazon only carries the revised one now so if you order through them you'll be sure to get it. It has eliminated the errors in the first edition that previous reviews make mention of.  <br /> <br />As far as the book itself, I have read a lot of Gettysburg books and this one ranks up there with the very best such as Harry Phanz's book on the second day. It is an incredibly detailed account of the event of the 1st day.  <br /> <br />There are two things about this book that most impressed me. First is the way Martin approached the battle itself. Rather than cover the entire battlefield together in one timeline, he approaches sections of the battle separately. It's almost like the book is a series of smaller books. He will take a brigade such as Cutler's Brigade and concentrate on them rather than try and insert into that narrative what was going on on other parts of the field. Then he will back up and cover in detail other regiments or Brigades that were going on simultaneously that are connected to the previous section and so on.  <br /> <br />The result is he'll do Cutler's Brigade and then back up a bit and cover the 6th Wisconsin and how they connected to what was happening and then Stones Brigade. It allows the reader not to be overwhelmed with to many units at one time and develope a clear view about how it all fits together. <br /> <br />The second thing is Martin goes into details on certain controversies. Rather than say \\"this is definitely what happened\\" he will explain that there were alternate views of the same thing and then explain why he believes one has more merit than the other.  <br /> <br />The only criticism I have of this book are the maps. I've walked the areas of the battle numerous times so I am familiar with the terrain but not everyone has had that chance. Many of the maps in the book cover the entire Gettysburg area as far south as Big Round Top. Far to wide ranging whenyou are dealing with regimental level actions on McPherson Ridge. The book would have served the reader better with more maps that covered a smaller area and just a few showing the entire Gettysburg area. <br /> <br />In short, this is a book that belongs in the library of anyone who has a strong interest in Gettysburg. It covers the first day in a way no other book does. It will become a prize book of reference for those who own it.	2005-03-05
US	49175467	R31IL3PGRRK9M2	158097032X	245971382	Stone's Brigade and the Fight for the McPherson Farm	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Full of good info about Stones Brigade	I was much surprised by this book. I didn't expect much when I picked it up, but found it to be a rather well done piece examining the participation of Stone's Brigade at Gettysburg and especially it's fight on McPherson's Ridge.    The book doesn't go into a great deal of detail outside of Stone's Brigade so if you are looking for something to cover the entire fighting along McPherson's Ridge on July 1st try David Martin's book on the the first day. However if you are already familiar with Gettysburg then this will make a good addition to your Gettysburg book collection.    The book itself is short but informative. Dougherty has done a great job of weaving in the personal accounts of the men involved in the battle. His writing style is smooth and not at all dry. He's also done a first rate job of including maps showing the Brigade's changing positions during the battle. I wish more Civil War books put in the effort to include maps like this.     After reading this book you should have no trouble walking the battlefield positions of the 143rd, 149th and 150th Pa regiments near the McPherson Farm and understanding the events there better.    The only downside to this book is it's a bit pricey for it's size of only around 170 pages or so but if you are someone really into studying the battle of Gettysburg, you will find this worth picking up.	2005-02-14
US	49175467	R3DGC89TJGPVXW	0807125814	52941851	The Union Generals Speak: The Meade Hearings on the Battle of Gettysburg	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A unique look into the politics of the Army of the Potomac	This book is truly a unique look into the politics of Army of the Potomac as well as the thoughts of the men who commanded it at Gettysburg. It is a work that most Gettysburg enthusiasts will greatly enjoy and will also serve as a valuable reference tool. <br /> <br />The book in essence is the congressional testimony of some of the most important men involved in the battle of Gettysburg on the Federal side. The highlight of the book are the testimonies of Generals such as George Meade, Gouverneur Warren, Winfield Hancock, Henry Hunt and John Gibbon. Men whose testimony give us much insight into what their thoughts were during the battle and why it was fought the way it was.  <br /> <br />Also included in the book are some not so honorable testimonies by men whose goal at the hearings were to settle political and personal scores with Meade. The testimony of Dan Sickles will make even the most novice Gettysburg enthusiast's blood boil. To say it is full of lies and falsehoods would be an understatement. The testimony of Dan Butterfield isn't much better. The two men set out to destroy the reputation of Meade but in the end only managed to tarnished their own names in history. <br /> <br />As important and interesting as these testimonies are, what really takes this book to the next level is the commentary by Bill Hyde. His comments put these testimonies in context and really help enhance the reader's understanding of what the men both testifying and on the committee were trying to accomplish.  <br /> <br />If you hold a strong interest in the Battle of Gettysburg then you are really going to enjoy this book. It will be a valuable addition to your Civil War book collection.	2004-10-27
US	49175467	R3QY3EJ8B7M4ZH	080613187X	604477713	Return to Bull Run: The Campaign and Battle of Second Manassas	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	A must have for Civil War enthusiasts	There are a lot of books out that deal with specific Civil War battles but few can match Hennessy's Return to Bull Run for it's scholorship and fine writing.<br /><br />Of Lee's battles in the early Civil War, Second Bull Run likely gets the least amount of attention. Sandwiched between the Peninsula Campaign and Antietam it is simply overlooked. Hennessy however in Return to Bull Run shows not only why the battle may be one of Lee's finest but also how the battle severely hurt Lee's campaign into Maryland.<br /><br />One of the things I like about this book is Hennessy tackles some of the big myths surrounding the battle with solid research. He does a great job from going from the big picture with discussing the overall strategy down to the tactical with interesting stories of the experiences of individual soldiers.<br /><br />Also Hennessy really impressed me with his writing skills. I wish every Civil War author had Hennessy's talent for keeping the narrative going without getting bogged down once they get into the battle itself. To often authors get so stuck in describing the Xs and Os of the regimental movements that they forget the men involved but Hennessy keeps the story flowing nicely all the way through.<br /><br />This is a book that any Civil War buff will greatly enjoy reading and will be the definitive book on the battle for a long time to come.	2004-10-25
US	49175467	RG271X1QI7CY6	1883271061	279906528	Antietam National Battlefield (Civil War battlefield series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Extremely useful for touring the Antietam Battlefield	Ask any Civil War enthusiast who enjoys touring battlefields what they think of the Trailhead Graphics Battlefield maps and more than likely you will hear great praise. Their maps are an indispensable tool for anyone planning to tour our National Battlefield Parks and this map of Antietam is no exception.    The maps are useful in so many ways both for the experienced and novice battlefield explorer. Besides showing the general layout of the battlefield in a topigraphical format, it also shows the location of all the monuments and markers on the field. This is extremely helpful in either finding that monument you seek or finding out what that monument you see in the distance is without making the long trek all the way over to it. On my very first trip to Antietam a few years ago I was on the hills above Burnside Bridge. On a hill in the distance I could see a monument. Curious I pulled out my Trailhead Graphics map and was easly able to identify the monument.    The maps are also waterproof which is important as battlefield exploring is an outdoor hobby. I've had my maps get rained on more than once and the water just runs off them.    Lastly the maps are useful for armchair battlefield explorers as well. I've more than once been reading a Civil War book and broken out my Trailhead Graphics map when the author hasn't provided good enough maps in their book.	2004-10-19
US	49175467	ROMAYA0QI1NNB	0151008892	664896364	Donnybrook: The Battle of Bull Run, 1861	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	No maps but still well worth picking up	If you have read David Detzer's book Allegiance then you are already familiar with his wonderful writing style. Detzer is really a talented writer and Donnybrook definately lives up to his previous works. It's well researched and well written.    One of the nice things about Detzer's work here is that like with Allegiance, it's not just the story of the Xs and Os of the battle but the political and social atmosphere surrounding it. In the end the reader is left with not just a better understanding of the battle itself but the political pressures involved.     One point I especially enjoyed was the book dealt rather heavily with General Patterson and his failed attempt to hold Johnston's forces in the valley so they could not reinforce Beauregard at Manassas Junction. Detzer shows pretty convincingly that General Winfeld Scott's confusing orders had as much as anything to do with Johnston's ability to escape Patterson and join Beauregard.    My only criticism of this book is that there are no maps of the battle. There is a general map of the Eastern Theater inside the front cover but that's all. While Detzer does a wonderful job in describing the battle and the actions of the units I still think he should have included at least a few to help the reader better understand the movements of the armies.     If you are someone familiar with the battle before reading the book, this shouldn't be a problem. If you are rather new to the battle you might want to look up a map of the battlefield online when reading it. Either way, this is still a fine book so don't let the lack of maps keep you from picking this one up.	2004-10-13
US	49175467	R2EM1D4Z1ELU3K	0684832755	973694836	Custer	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Great for the person looking for just 1 book on Custer	Jeffry Wert has done a wonderful job here in covering the life of one of the more controversial Generals in American history. The book is comprehensive and covers Custer from his early days as a boy (and for a short time, school teacher) in the midwest through West Point, the Civil War, his days in Kansas and finally his famous and final battle at Little Big Horn.    This book is a perfect fit for anyone who is interested in Custer but doesn't want to read 3 or 4 different books on the man. Yes, there are books out there that cover his life in the Civil War more in depth or that deal with Little Big Horn more but for those new to Custer and want a good overview of the man in one volume, this is perfect.    One thing I like about Wert is he's very balanced on Custer. We read in Wert's book about the man, his triumphs and some of his not so shining moments. Custer had great success during the Civil War and was highly thought of by his fellow commanders for both his courage and skills. He truly was one of the great calvary commanders of the Civil War.    At the same time Wert recounts some not so shining moments like Custer's attempt to trump his commanders at Appomattox by crossing the lines and trying to bluff Longstreet into surrendering the Army of Northern Virginia to him (Longstreet in short told Custer to buzz off). It also frankly deals with Custer's court martial at Fort Leavenworth where Wert does not excuse Custer's actions that landed him in hot water.    Wert really did a nice job on the research. At the same time Wert is a talented writer with a style that is easy and enjoyable to read. If you are looking for one book to read about Custer, this would be a good choice.	2004-09-30
US	49175467	R1ELRXFBUJBGQY	0306811545	27184513	The Man Behind The Guns: A Military Biography Of General Henry J. Hunt, Commander Of Artillery, Army Of The Potomac	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	A good biography with a few flaws	Civil War biographies seem to be a lost art as of late. We do see the occasional biography such as Sears' fine book on McClellan, Wert's on Custer and it seems there's a new Lee or Jackson biography every year. However for many Civil War commanders it's been years since we've seen full biographies for them. Generals George Meade and George Thomas haven't seen new full bios in 50+ years. Not since Freeman Cleaves wrote his works on them in the late 40s and it's been 60 years since Walter Hebert wrote his work on Fighting Joe Hooker.     So with that said, it's nice to see a modern biography of an important and yet overlooked man in the Army of the Potomac's leadership.    Partly that that makes this book interesting is it's as much a story of the evolution of artillery in the Civil War as it is Hunt, although it's evolution controlled and nurtured by Hunt. In Longacre's book we see Hunt's famous stubbornness and to some extent his temper. We also see his brilliance with artillery and unfortunately his tragic life after the war where one could argue that his country turned it's back on him after Hunt did so much to help preserve it.    While this book is an enjoyable read it does have it's faults. One fault is the book has a feeling of being rushed. One doesn't have a feeling one is reading a true in depth biography of the man. The writing style is good and the essential facts are there but the book in the end simply has a feeling of being a bit rushed and not as detailed as it should have been.    Another odd fault shows up in the chapter on Gettysburg. Longacre obviously isn't the biggest fan of George Meade and it shows. In the Gettysburg chapter Longacre repeats the Dan Sickles created myth that Meade was planning to retreat from Gettysburg on July 2nd. Not only does he repeat the myth but he credits Henry Hunt with talking Meade into staying! Then Longacre takes the myth one step further and claims Meade planned to retreat on July 3rd and the only reason he didn't was because his Corps Commanders talked him out of it! Only two chapters later in the section on the Congressional investigation into Gettysburg does Longacre tell the reader that any plans Meade had made for retreat were merely contingency plans.    For the rest of the Gettysburg chapter Longacre takes his shots at Meade where he can to the point that it becomes both obvious and a bit annoying. Meanwhile Hunt's faults are glossed over a bit. Yes he was a brilliant officer, often under appreciated these days but he still had his faults. By reading Longacre you'd think Hunt had never made an error.    While the book has it's flaws it still is worth picking up. Longacre's nice writing style makes it a pleasant read. Hunt was an important part of the Army of the Potomac and this book help's greatly to understand his role. Most Civil War enthusiasts will find this book worthwhile.	2004-09-15
US	49175467	R32DHOBRW34PLZ	1883271037	567082589	Gettysburg National Military Park (Civil War battlefield series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A must have for anyone interested in touring Gettysburg	There is no question that this map is a wonderful tool. If you're going to visit Gettysburg I strongly recommend it. I've taken mine with me on every trip I've made to Gettysburg and it's been well worth it. I often tell people that all I need at Gettysburg is a bottle of water and my Trailhead Graphics map. <br /> <br />The map's best asset is it's mapping of the monuments. More than once while at Gettysburg I would know I was close to a specific monument but not sure exactly where it was in relation to my current location. Checking the map I was quickly able to Locate the monument I was seeking. Also it's great for finding those out of the way monuments and markers. The ones off the beaten track that you may not have known was there but for the map. <br /> <br />This map is also great for when you are reading a book about Gettysburg. Civil War books don't always have the best maps in them. I've more than once been reading a book on Gettysburg and pulled out this map so I can get a better idea of the location the action in the book is taking place at. <br /> <br />The map does have two very minor drawbacks. First it does not show any of the public rest rooms on the battlefield. At Gettysburg the rest rooms have been hidden away so to speak. For example at Devil's Den there is one on the other side of Plum Run but hidden in the woods so as not to stand out. This makes them hard to find if you are not familiar with the battlefield. The map shows the picnic areas but not the rest rooms. <br /> <br />The second drawback is the map does not mark the one way roads. Confederate Ave along with several other roads associated with the auto tour are one way but the map doesn't have any of them marked.  <br /> <br />Even with those two minor deficiencies this map is still by far the best one you'll find out there. If you're planning a trip to Gettysburg be sure to pick this up. Also Trailhead Graphics also make maps of a number of other Civil War battlefields like Shiloh and Antietam. These maps are also just as well done. <br /> <br />	2004-09-15
US	49175467	RGFC1CQP4CZV8	0306811413	906436911	The Army of the Potomac: Birth of Command, November 1860-September 1861	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	The beginning of what could be a very important series	I was skeptical of this book when I first picked it up. I mean the book only covers the Army of the Potomac from November 1860 to September 1861 and yet is a good 600 pages long by a writer for all intensive purposes is an unknown. I was half expecting a very dry read but boy was I wrong. Instead I got one of the best Civil War books I've read in a while.    The book is intended to be the first in a series of books covering the history of the Army of the Potomac. This volume covers the formation of the army in the early days of the war.    I think one of the things I really enjoyed about this book is it dealt with areas, details and people that few other books deal with. How does one create an army? How do you get these regiments from the north down to Washington which is almost cut off due to the city of Baltimore? The problems were immense.     Attempting to solve these problems were men whom we have seldom heard much about or if we have we have heard about them it's mostly from later in the war for other things. This book deals with men like Benjamin Butler, Charles Stone, Robert Patterson and Elmer Ellsworth. Footnotes in many other books, here they take center stage alongside more familiar names like Fitz-John Porter, Irvin McDowell, Winfield Scott and of course George McClellan as they do their part in securing Washington DC and helping in the early creation of what would become the Army of the Potomac.    Russel Beatie definately has written a great book here that I think most Civil War enthusiasts will greatly enjoy. It has wonderful detail and yet is never slow or dry. I really can't wait to read the other volumes in the series. I think once completed it will be an important part of anyone's Civil War book collection.	2004-08-10
US	49175467	R11T0OAIWJUSNO	0806122986	211312695	Meade of Gettysburg	Books	2	15	18	N	Y	Lacks strong substance	As much interest as there is in the Civil War today it is amazing that there hasn't been a full scale biography done on George Meade since Freeman Cleaves wrote this book some 45 years ago.     While this is an easy book to read, it definately lacks the level of scholarship we would expect from a biography today. Cleaves has a smooth writing style, however after about 100 pages you really start to get the feeling that you are getting much more style than substance.     I don't know if the problem is lack of source information or simply that to Cleaves it was more important to entertain than to inform but it really got frustrating to me when Cleaves would skim over what were important sections of Meade's life.    Case in point is George Meade's wounding on the Peninsula. Cleaves was blending Meade's entire service on the Peninsula so much that I had to backtrack to figure out what battle Meade was even wounded at. His entire section on the Peninsula amounts to only a handful of pages and in the end Cleaves spends only half a page describing how Meade was actually wounded. His description of Meade's arm wound is simply Cleaves telling us that he had a wound in the forearm and nothing more. Next thing we know Meade is back up and around and heading back to his unit after going home to recuperate. His actual time recovering is completely ignored. We see this over and over again in the book.     Another thing missing out is Meade's opinions. Cleaves had full access to Meade's letters written during the war but makes no use of them. What did Meade think of his fellow generals? We don't know because Cleaves doesn't tell us. You would expect Cleaves to quote liberally from Meade's letters but he doesn't.    Unfortunately this book just doesn't live up to today's standards of what a reader expects from a biographical study like this. In this day and age where we have such great Civil War writers like Sears, Beatie, Detzer and Cozzens one expects a high level of scholarship.This book simply doesn't have that.	2004-08-08
US	49175467	R32DNCOV8BFYKX	0963899309	475475091	Pickett's Charge	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Interesting but not a must have	Richard Rollins has put together a nice collection of eye witness reports to Pickett's Charge. For the serious Civil War buff, they will find the book a decent reference but the casual civil war reader may find the accounts a bit repetitive and dry at times.    Rollins starts out his book in a bad way with an introduction that is suppose to be a general overview of the battle but in reality is simply your good old fashion Lost Cause bashing of James Longstreet. To say he goes over the top would be an understatement. Rollins surprised me by his repeating of a number of lost cause myths and untruths including the myth of the dawn attack order and claiming that Lee stayed up half the night waiting for Longstreet to come to his headquarters after the battle on July 2nd. He claims there is ample evidence of there being an order for a dawn attack and then promptly provides no evidence what so ever. Neither assertion is true but Rollins' definately has a big ax to grind with Longstreet and swings away with a vengence.     Once past the introduction however we get to the good stuff and Rollins does seem to do a decent job of picking out some of the better accounts. He also does something that I wish more Civil War authors would do and that's have good maps of the battle. Each section of the book has it's own map with numbers on it. The numbers correspond with a specific account in the next section. This makes it very easy to understand the person's perspective as you can look at the map and quickly see where they were. I wish more Civil War authors would put as much effort into having good maps in their books like we see here.    His choice of accounts are well balanced. We see the battle from both sides, first the Confederates and then the Federals. We also have accounts all the way down the line in order of rank so in a section you will start off with an account by a general and finish with that of the common private. Some of the sections are more interesting than others.For example the Confederate accounts involving Armistead going over the wall are much more interesting than the ones describing the preparations for the cannonade.     There are only two drawbacks to this book. First you are reading accounts by people who aren't professional writers. Many of these accounts are from personal letters, reports or soldiers writing articles for home town newspapers so their writing style plus the change in language over the last 140 years makes for a little heavy going at times. It doesn't make their stories any less interesting, just a little less easy to read at a long stretch.    Second while you are reading many different accounts, they are accounts describing the same thing so it can get a bit repetitive. Rollins might have done a little better job in the accounts he chose to include in sections where they are describing the cannonade. They spend time describing how they set up their batteries and the shelling and it does tend to drag a bit there. Not that what they are saying isn't interesting but it's one thing to read a letter from a soldier describing a battle and it's another thing to read 10 letters in a row describing the same part of the battle.    Overall this is a book worth picking up as a reference piece if you know the battle well and are seriously into Gettysburg. If you are simply a casual reader on Gettysburg then this book likely won't be for you.	2004-07-08
US	49175467	R3Q585SKM0NCPT	0807124400	33690588	Six Years of Hell: Harpers Ferry During the Civil War	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A good book but really horrible maps hamper author's efforts	I recently visited Harpers Ferry on a vacation where I was touring eastern Civil War battlefields and found the place so facinating that I wanted to learn more about it's history. While Harpers Ferry was an important location during the Civil War, in most Civil War books it's a sideshow of something larger such as the battle of Antietam. Fortunately with Chester Hearn's book it gets center stage treatment. <br />The book itself is well written and is a nice 300 pages in length. John Brown's raid, Lee's invasions of 1862 &amp; 1863 as well as Early's 1864 raid are all covered and covered in depth in the book. Hearn's writing style is enjoyable and the book is well researched.<br />Unfortunately the maps in the book don't live up to the writing. The four maps are some of the worst I've seen in any Civil War book. The first two are barely acceptable. The one of the town itself doesn't even show the Bolivar Heights. The last two are the worst. They are so dark and the lettering so small that most of the wording on them is unreadable and they do not help the reader in any way. None of the maps show such important landmarks like Sandy Hook and not until the last one is even the Bolivar Heights shown but the lettering so small that you can barely read it. <br />This is a good book and Civil War buffs will enjoy it. You will be left with a better appreciation for the role Harpers Ferry played in the war. However Hearn would have served his work better and the reader would have gotten a better understanding of the events had he provided better maps and perhaps some photos of the area. It's one thing to read about the Loudoun and Maryland Heights and another to see them. A picture of these heights from the town would have greatly assisted the reader in understanding the terrain of the area and the difficulties they brought to defending it.<br />I do recommend this book but if you pick it up I strongly suggest you search online for maps of the Harpers Ferry area and perhaps some photos showing the Maryland and Loudoun Heights.	2004-06-23
US	49175467	RX4R0O69H1RBZ	0807854271	968516271	General George E. Pickett in Life and Legend	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A good effort but their still are to many holes in the story	George Pickett could be one of the biggest mysteries of the Civil War. After the war and then his death 10 years later his wife became a celebrated author. She wrote several popular books about the Civil War and specifically George Pickett including one that was suppose to be a collection of his letters to her during the war. The problem is Sallie Pickett's books were more fiction than fact. Creations of her imagination to glorify her husband. <br />The result is in trying to write a proper biography of George Pickett one has to deal with Sallie Pickett and try to separate the truth from the fantasy. This problem is compounded by the fact that Pickett's actual wartime letters and other papers are locked away and not available to modern scholars.<br />This is why it is so difficult for a biography of Pickett to be written. It's like putting together a jigsaw puzzle with pieces from another puzzle in the box. Every time you pick up a piece you have to try and decide if it even belongs with the puzzle. That's the very difficult task that Lesley Gordon faced in trying to write this book. <br />Gordon does do a decent job of weeding out the fiction from the facts. Her writing style is very good and the book is an enjoyable read. She holds no punches and is tough on Pickett when the need requires but also gives him credit for the good things. The problem is there simply are to many gaps in the story which cause her to literally skim over important parts of Pickett's life. His life after the war is barely even touched and Gordon skims over some rather important events, most likely because there is so little factual information available about Pickett concerning those times. Perhaps not Gordon's fault but we as readers are still left scratching our heads wondering what went on.<br />Lastly due to lack of direct sources i.e. Pickett himself, Gordon is forced to use other indirect sources that aren't always reliable. For example in discussing his being wounded at Gaines MillGordon quotes Major John Haskill who accuses Pickett of cowardice. The problem is Haskill had a strong and well known dislike of Pickett and his story is so absurd that I was surprised Gordon chose to even include the account at all.<br />I think the definitive book on Pickett is still to come. There are simply still to many gaps in his life. Perhaps someday in the future his actual letters and papers will be made available to scholars and then a true in-depth biography of the man can be made. In the meantime this will do.	2004-06-16
US	49175467	R3JVSFBNHAGVQF	0425184587	475316374	With My Face to the Enemy	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A uneven potpourri but enough there to make it worth reading	It's pretty much common sense that Anthologies are a real mixed bag but With My Face to the Enemy is more than the average. This compilation has some wonderful stuff and to be honest one or two that I'm surprised got past the editor considering the factual errors they have.<br />On the good side you have some really first rate pieces. Stephen Sears comes through with some great stuff as usual with 'The Last Word on the Lost Order', 'The Ordeal of General Stone' and 'Malvern Hill'. However these works can be found in his book \\"Controversies and Commanders\\" or his book on the Peninsula Campaign. <br />Still there are other less well known writers in addition to the well known ones like Sears, Gallagher and McPherson, to make this worth picking up. Robert Jones' Rebel Without a War sticks out as exceptional as does John Taylor's 'The Crater'. Also two different articles that cover Col William Oates and Col Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain 'The Antagonists of Little Round Top'I found to be very interesting reads.<br />On the bad side a few of the article lean a bit towards the dry side and there are some factual errors, especially in Tom Flemming's 'Band of Brothers'. The article makes a number of mistakes such as stating that General Richard Garnett rode in Pickett's Charge because he was to sick with fever to walk. The actual truth however is that Garnett had been kicked by a horse and his leg was still to sore for him to walk. Flemming also repeats the old fable that Grant sent an engraved silver serving set across the battle lines at Petersburg to George and Sally Pickett as a present when their son was born. However this story is widely known to be a fictional creation of Sally Pickett's after the war.<br />So in the end while a bit uneven, there's enough first rate material to make the book worth it.	2004-05-07
US	49175467	R4SA8A5AO2QT7	0071564373	793734735	At Ease: Stories I Tell to Friends	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Learn about Eisenhower the man	Recently I went and toured the Eisenhower farm in Gettysburg Pennsylvania. It was a facinating tour (Given by Ike's personal physician and family friend) and when it was over I asked the gentleman what book I should read to learn more about Eisenhower. He recommended this one and a fine recommendation it was.<br />One nice thing about Eisenhower is he had a gift for story telling and he puts that gift to good use here. You discover when reading his books that they have a very comfortable feel to them. No dry read here. Eisenhower had a real talent for writing (He didn't use a ghost writer but wrote his books completely on his own) and you come away with a better appreciation of the man's intelligence and strong wit.<br />I was also surprised in the book at how much candor Ike shows. One half expects when reading a book like this you would get a lot of political stories or things to try and justify some of his political choices while President but that is not the case. It really is a book that the title says it is. Personal stories that Ike liked to tell his friends. The result is we get a nice look at the man. Not General or President Eisenhower but the man himself looking back at his life as a soldier, husband and father.<br />One note on this book. WW II is only lightly covered in this. Eisenhower covers that subject in \\"Crusade in Europe\\" which I also recommend.<br />If you're are interested in learning more about Ike and his life, this is a great place to start.	2004-04-29
US	49175467	R13OUA2200DJ9K	0807128090	17116630	The Fredericksburg Campaign: Winter War on the Rappahannock	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Ranks up there with the best	Fredericksburg is one of those battles that while a major conflict, is often overshadowed by battles such as Gettysburg and Antietam. So it's nice to see a book that covers the entire campaign so completely. In fact I rank this book up there with what I think are some of the best Civil War books around such as Coddington's Gettysburg: A Study in Command.<br />What is really outstanding about this work is that it both the Xs and Os of the battle and also the generals involved. I especially enjoyed the hard look O'Reilly takes at Burnside. This is Burnside's one and only time to really command the Army of the Potomac in battle and in many ways he was a man in over his head. <br />O'Reilly also looks at the politics involved in the Army of the Potomac. A factor so often over looked in the Civil War but one that had a major impact on everything in the Eastern Theater.<br />There has been over the last 10 years quite a number of top quality books published about individual Civil War battles and this work by O'Reilly can stand up with the very best of them. It's a must read I think for anyone interested in the Eastern Theater of the Civil War.	2004-04-27
US	49175467	RC7YRGDDNMT77	039587744X	950486766	Chancellorsville	Books	5	45	47	N	Y	A real treat for Civil War enthusiasts	Stephen Sears has earned a reputation as one of the top Civil War authors today and with Chancellorsville he once again shows why with what could be his best book so far. First off, Sears is just a great writer. To many Civil War books are written by authors who know the subject and have done all the right research but simply don't have the writing talents to put the information into a form that is both informative and entertaining. That is not the case with Sears. His writing skills are equel to his research and the result is a book that is both informative and a pleasure to read. <br />To say this book is about the Battle of Chancellorsville is almost a misnomer. A better description would be that the book is about the Hooker era in the Army of the Potomac. In the book Sears treats us to more than just the Xs and Os of a battle. We hear about Hooker's rebuilding of the Army's moral after the disasterous tenure of Burnside. We learn about army intelligence, how both armies are supplied and how troops passed the winter months. All before we get anywhere close to Chancellorsville. The book does a wonderful job of covering the situation of both the Army of the Potomac and Army of Northern Virginia in the early days of 1863.<br />As far as the battle goes, the book gives a very complete description. From the opening moves to the death of Jackson, the reader really gets a full and complete picture. This is aided by Sears' inclusion of some very good maps, something that is often missing from Civil War books.<br />I can think of few Civil War books that I have enjoyed as much as this. The book is 600 pages but Sears is such a good writer that you breeze right through it. Sears has done a lot of good books but for me this could be his best.	2004-04-22
US	49175467	R3BUL6BQ4X832A	0807826243	998807154	Gettysburg--The First Day (Civil War America)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Pfanz once again writes a great one	The first day at Gettysburg is probably the least talked about of the battle. Day two has such recognizable names as Little Round Top, The Wheatfield, Peach Orchard and Devil's Den. Day three is of course Pickett's Charge. However the first day has it's equally interesting dramas. You have the Iron Brigade engaged in McPherson Woods, The death of General Reynolds, France Barlow on the knoll, Coster's Battle in the Brickyard and the retreat through the town.<br />In this book Harry Pfanz finally gives these areas the detailed examination they deserve. Like his book on Culp's Hill and East Cemetery Hill, we get a detailed account of some of the less celebrated actions in the battle and in such a way that we are left with a much better understanding of the actions and their importance to the overall battle.<br />One of the things I really liked about this book was Pfanz's dealing with the retreat through the town. It's such a confusing area that for most authors if they have to deal with it they simply give us a cursory explanation and move onto the defence of Cemetery Hill. Not Pfanz. We have a nice good sized chapter dealing with the retreat.<br />This is a book that anyone who is truly interested in the battle of Gettysburg should have. No other book even comes close to dealing with the events of the first day like this one does.	2004-04-16
US	49175467	R2D0J80X0V8E8Z	0306804719	417040449	The Civil War Papers Of George B. Mcclellan: Selected Correspondence, 1860-1865 (Quality Paperbacks Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A great companion to Sear's biography of McClellan	Stephen Sears's biography of George McClellan is probably the best ever written about the Civil War general. This collection of his writings during the Civil War, collected by Sears makes a wonderful companion to that biography.<br />This collection of papers is facinating on so many levels. We read not only his official letters to the likes of Lincoln and Halleck but also his personal letters to his wife. It's in these personel letter that we see glimpses into the man's mind and sadly his paranoia. His letter home, especially during the pennisula campaign show a man suffering from a real psychological problem, made worse by the increasingly stressful situation he's in. As the campaign goes on you see his paranoia slowly begin to increase to the point that he feels he can trust nobody. He becomes a man who in his mind is surrounded by enemies.<br />One word of warning. This isn't a light read. The collection is a whopping 600+ pages. Sears is holding nothing back here. If you are new to the Civil War and McClellan I strongly suggest first reading Sears's biography of McClellan. His books on the the Pennisula campaign and Antietam I would also recommend reading. They're great books and will help you understand what was going on around McClellan as he wrote all these correspondence.	2004-04-14
US	49175467	R2U0KPD90DD99L	0306809133	649891793	George B. Mcclellan: The Young Napoleon	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Best book written about the Young Napoleon	I've been facinated with McClellan for several years now and Stephen Sears's book is without question the best ever written about the Young Napoleon. He follows Mac's life as a child prodigy at West Point, through his Civil War years and beyond.<br />George McClellan to me is perhaps one of the most fascinating man of the Civil War. He commanded the AOP for only 18 months but his shadow hung over it for the entire war. Very Charismatic and a brilliant administrator but also a man who suffered from bouts of paranoia and indecisiveness to the point that he would become incapable of taking any action with his army. Twice being put in charge of the Army of the Potomac he was the Civil War version of a deer in the headlights being frozen into an inability to take any action.<br />One thing I like about this book is it's fair. It's critical of McClellan when it needs to be such as his time on the Peninsula but also shows how brilliant he was in his whipping the Army of the Potomac into a proper fighting force. Sears makes special point for example to talk about how successful McClellan is after the war as Governor of New Jersey and as a railroad executive. At the same time Sears looks at the darker parts of McClellan, especially his paranoia which at times would lead him to see enemies at every corner and a Confederate army many times it's actual size.<br />Lastly with Stephen Sears you get a very well written book. No dry writing here. Sears is a talented writer whose books read like a good novel.	2004-04-14
US	49175467	R3SM29SG1ILNAB	0813122171	354222913	Blood on the Moon: The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	The definitive book on the Lincoln assassination	If you want to learn about the Lincoln assasination then look no further than here. This is the definitive book on the subject. Edward Steers Jr. very likely knows as much about the assasination of Abe Lincoln as anyone has ever known. This book is the fruit of his years of hard research.<br />The book is as much as anything an examination of Booth and his work as an agent for the Confederacy during the war. We see the familiar characters like Surratt and of course Dr Mudd who Steers proves without a shadow of a doubt was complicit with Booth. Hardly the friendly country Doctor some have claimed him to be. He was a slave hunter and an active agent for the Confederate underground. His guilt is without question.<br />One of the best things about this book is it confronts head on some of the myths and conspiracy theories surrounding the assassination. Mudd's guilt as mentioned above is dealt with, as is the theory that Booth actually escaped and lived to a ripe old age.<br />I doubt very much that anytime in the near future we will see another book on the Lincoln assassination cover the event as thoroughly as this one does.	2004-04-13
US	49175467	R1VBIUWRG14TY8	034543403X	485023176	The Class of 1846: From West Point to Appomatox- Stonewall Jackson, George McClellan and Their Brothers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good book for understanding the Civil War Generals	To understand the Civil War one needs to understand the generals and their relationships between each other. I can think of no other war in history where the leaders on both sides knew each other so well and the focal point of all this is West Point. <br />Class of 1846 is perhaps the most legendary class in West Point history. 20 members from it's class went on to become generals in the Civil war. Names like McClellan, Couch, Reno and Stoneman for the Union while men like Jackson, Pickett, Fry and Wilcox for the Confederacy. <br />What makes this book such a good read is we see and read about these men before the Civil War. We see how they did at West Point and in the Mexican American War and see members of the class interact with other men who will in time be important figures. We read about West Point Cadet U S Grant and what he thought of underclassman Thomas Jackson. In the Mexican War McClellan works with Army Captain Robert E Lee. George Pickett shows extreme bravery in Mexico where he becomes friends with another officer named James Longstreet.<br />The only complaint I have about this book is it's a bit narrow focused. The book spends a bit to much time on McClellan and Jackson. Still it's a fine book and a unique view of these Civil War generals.	2004-04-12
US	49175467	RHGVMWNTG0BS2	0807847305	686578884	Gettysburg--The Second Day (Civil War America)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Detailed account of the second day at Gettysburg	To understand the importance of the second day's battle at Gettysburg, one only has to look at the names of the men and places involved. The men were names like Chamberlain, Hood, Vincent, Zook, O'Rorke and Hancock. The places were The Wheatfield, Peach Orchard, Devil's Den and Little Round Top. Even 140 years later the average person on the street knows what Little Round Top is, even if they don't know much else about Gettysburg.<br />Harry Pfanz's Gettysburg the Second Day is a must have for anyone seriously interested in understand what happen in Gettysburg on July 2nd. It covers Longstreet's assault against the southern flank of the Union army using two of his divisions commanded by Hood and McLaws (Pickett was as yet not on the field with his division). Pfanz does a really nice job with the Xs and Os of the battle. He especially does nice work with the Wheatfield which is perhaps the most confusing section of the entire battle of Gettysburg. No other book I think explains what happened there better than this one.<br />Pfanz without question knows Gettysburg better than anyone around. He spent 20 years as the head NPS historian at the park so he knows from what he speaks.<br />As a side note, this book does not cover the fighting on the Union right flank on the second day but concentrates on Longstreet's assault on the Union left. To learn about the events on the other end you should read Harry Pfanz's book on Culp's Hill and East Cemetery Hill which covers the actions on those hills during the entire 3 day battle.	2004-04-12
US	49175467	RI8GBBSMR4QVV	015600741X	771333444	Allegiance: Fort Sumter, Charleston, and the Beginning of the Civil War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book for understanding the events of Fort Sumter	To tell you how good this book is, I picked this book up almost as a lark. I only had planned to glance through the first few pages before setting it down to read later and the next thing I knew I'd read 50 pages. That's how good a writer David Detzer is.    The book itself follows the events of 1861 in Charleston South Carolina as a small garrison of Union soldiers try to hold out against the growing tide of secessionism. These men and more specificly the fort they hold becomes an important symbol for both sides as events begin to boil. The man in the center of all this is Maj. Robert Anderson, commander of the Union garrison. Raised in the south, Anderson tries desperately to prevent the war he knows is fast approaching.    Allegiance isn't just a good Civil War book but a good book in general. It will be the standard for many years to come on the subject of Fort Sumter.	2004-04-10
US	49175467	R2PXLTQQ04SIW3	0618344195	865873587	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	5	67	69	N	Y	Best book out there on America's bloodiest day	Having just toured the Antietam battlefield, I once again appreciate how good of a book this is. The story of Antietam is one not so much of what did happen but what might have been. Lee had his back to the river and was heavily outnumbered. McClellan once again had another chance to deal a crushing blow to Lee and once again due to his inability to press the fight let's him off the hook.<br />As much as anything this book is about the generals and how they approach the battle as it is about who shot who where and when. On the one side you have Lee moving his troops from one end of the field to another in perhaps his greatest achievement of the war. On the other side you have McClellan who is frozen by indecisiveness. <br />As for the writing style, Sears again shows why he's one of the more talented writers in the Civil War genre today. The book reads like a good novel thanks to Sears's writing talents. This book is easly the best book out there on the battle of Antietam and I highly recommend it to anyone.	2004-04-10
US	49175467	RTSUC220320HU	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sears once again comes through with a great book	Stephen Sears has a reputation as one of the top Civil War authors writing today and with Gettysburg he maintains that reputation.<br />What makes Sears stand out amoung the rest is he's simply a fine writer. Some books on the Civil War are written by people who while they do good research and know their subject matter, don't always have the best writing skills. The result can sometimes be a book that's a bit on the dry side. That is not the case with Sears who combines both fine scholarly research with great writing. His writing style is so good that his books read with the ease of a good novel.<br />If you are new to the Civil War and looking for one book that covers the entire Gettysburg campaign then this book will be a fine choice for you.	2004-04-10
US	49175467	RAJN57CKY2UFW	157747032X	351339340	Early Photography at Gettysburg	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An important piece of Civil War scholarship.	One would think with it being so many years after Gettysburg and with so many books written about the battle that there would be little room for anything truly unique on the subject. However unique is a great word to use in describing this book.<br />This isn't just any Civil War book and William Frassanito isn't your normal Civil War author. He's a trained photo interpreter and the first man to truly take a careful study of the early photographs of the Gettysburg battlefield. The result is an amazing book that changes our perspective of many famous Gettysburg photographs and in some cases finds important new information. <br />For example, Frassanito in his book shows a photograph never published before of the remains of soldiers being interned in the National Cemetery. The only problem is the graves are in a straight line and the gravemarkers today at the Cemetery are in a curved line meaning the markers likely don't accurately mark the positions of the soldiers. Another photograph in the book is the famous snipers nest photo. Frassanito however shows proof that the soldier was moved to that position and that the picture was staged. He even found the dead soldier in another photograph of dead on the battlefield.<br />This book is a must have for anyone seriously interested in Gettysburg. It will not so much help you understand the battle as much as help you understand the battlefield.	2004-04-09
US	49175467	R2UNV8TZIPQS9	0060193638	220335700	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage	Books	3	27	27	N	Y	Well researched but a somewhat dry writing style	When looking for a one book study of the Gettysburg Campaign one in general has three choices, Trudeau, Sears and of course Coddington. If I had to put the three in order I would put Coddington first, Sears and then Trudeau.<br />There is no question that Trudeau is a fine scholor. His book is well researched and presented in a unique fashion. Instead of long chapters about different sections of the battle he writes shorter sections and jumps all over the battlefield so as to give the reader a feeling of what was going on at different parts of the field at the same time. It's an interesting way to approach writing about the battle and for the most part it works.<br />The main problem with this book is simply that Trudeau is not as good a writer as Coddington and Sears. To be truthful his writing is a bit on the dry side.<br />If you are new to Gettysburg and simply looking for one book to learn about the battle then I strongly suggest you pick up Coddington or Sears. Both are fine books and will do the job. Like I said, this book isn't a bad book but simply a bit dry and While I think the book belongs on the shelf of anyone seriously studying Gettysburg, I don't recommend it for those looking for their first book on the battle.	2004-04-09
US	49175467	R2LYHW60RSCUQD	0807821187	761125926	Gettysburg--Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill (Civil War America)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Perhaps Pfanz's best	Harry Pfanz likely knows Gettysburg better than any man around. Head historian for the NPS for many years, he has literally made Gettysburg his life's work. His books on the first and second days of the battle are considered must haves but this book on Culps Hill could be his best.<br />The battle for Culps Hill and especially East Cemetery Hill are today the most forgotten part of Gettysburg. Look around and you will find many books pertaining to Pickett's Charge, Devil's Den and Little Round Top but how many aimed at Culps Hill? Not many. Even at the park the auto tour has Culps Hill simply as an extra add towards the end of the tour.<br />With this book Pfanz takes a hard look at this forgotten area. We're use to the names of Chamberlain, Hancock and Pickett but here we hear names like Greene, Avery, Geary and Williams.<br />The advantage of this book is it's not aimed at the casual reader but the serious Civil War buff. The information included is extensive and detailed. While well written, it is not a piece of fluff or a light read. If you seriously want to find out what happened on Culps Hill this is the book for you.	2004-04-08
US	49175467	R3FJ3EC10DN4HG	0939631822	632655006	A Strange and Blighted Land: Gettysburg, The Aftermath of a Battle	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A sobering look at the aftermath of Gettysburg	This book isn't about the battle of Gettysburg. It's about the price that was paid for that battle by the men who fought it and the citizens of the town. The aftermath of Gettysburg was a nightmare beyond imagination.<br />After the guns fell silent Coco shows us that there was much to do. Thousands of dead soldiers needed to be buried and tens of thousands of wounded to be treated. How do you do all that? The truth is you can't, at least not very well. In the end many bodies were buried in shallow graves that didn't take long to get uncovered by the elements. Some bodies were simply dumped into the crevasses in Devil's Den. The wounded in many cases were left outside for no other reason than you had over ten times as many wounded as you had population in Gettysburg and there simply wasn't enough room indoors for all the wounded men. Toss in countless horses whose corpses needed to be gathered up and burned and you begin to get the picture. The aftermath of Gettysburg was a gruesome horror story.<br />This book is not for the casual or beginning Civil War reader. There's nothing about infantry charges and military tactics here. Coco doesn't hold back and to be honest the book is rather disturbing. However it tells the story that I don't think any other book does and that's the frank truth about the aftermath of Gettysburg.	2004-04-08
US	49175467	R1ZOR85OPGT5GJ	0618057064	329852487	Controversies and Commanders: Dispatches from the Army of the Potomac	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sears at his very best	There were a lot of battles during the Civil War but the one battle that often gets over looked is the political battle. This book examines the political battles that raged on inside the Army of the Potomac during the Civil War. Battles that at times that became so bad that they nearly crippled the entire army. <br />This book isn't really one solid story but a series of short stories written by Stephen Sears that examine specific incidence inside the army. We see the Corp Commanders of the army revolt against more than one commander as both Burnside and Hooker have their Corp commanders go behind their backs to get them relieved. We see General Stone arrested in one of the worst cases of scapegoating during the war and Dan Sickles, the epitome of the political general. And looming over all of this is the shadow of George McClellan.<br />I was almost surprised by this book. I've liked every book I've read by Sears and expected to enjoy this one but I really found this to be one of his very best. Sears does a great job. His piece on Dan Sickles makes you almost want to stand up and throttle the man.	2004-04-08
US	49175467	R7A2HN2V40ZE7	0618127135	509709654	To The Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Best book so far written on the overall Peninsula Campaign	There is a problem with Civil War books today. The problem is that while there are many very qualified Civil War scholors writing books, a lot of these scholors aren't necessarily good writers. They have their facts down but when it comes to presenting those facts in a book they simply don't have the talent or the skills to present it in an entertaining form. The results are often books that put even ardent Civil War buffs to sleep. That's what makes Stephen Sears stand above the rest. He not only is a top notch scholor but he also is a very talented writer. The result are books that not only are very informative but enjoyable to read. <br />The title of this book almost should be &quot;George McClellan's Peninsula Campaign&quot; because it's as much an examination of his command skills as it is the campaign itself. In 1862 McClellan was handed a historic opportunity. He was given a well trained and well supplied army and a chance to win the Civil War. He had Richmond in his sights when it all went wrong.<br />Sears examines the entire campaign, from McClellan's appointment as commander of the Army of the Potomac to his army being forced to abandon the Peninsula. In short the entire campaign that set the table for the rest of the war.	2004-04-08
US	49175467	R3Q8RPGK162196	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Still perhaps the most complete book on Gettysburg	I can think of few history books that are 40 years old that hold up as well as this one. Edwin Coddington still sets the standard for others to follow. If you are new to the battle of Gettysburg and looking for just one book that covers it, your choice basically is either this one or Stephen Sears' find book on Gettysburg. Either one you choose will be a fine choice.<br />To put it simply, the book covers Robert E. Lee's 1863 Pennsylvania campaign from it's inception with Lee trying to convince Jefferson Davis of his plan to his final retreat back into Virginia after his defeat at Gettysburg.<br />Coddington's writing style is first rate and the story flows very smooth. Not just a simple book about who attacked who where and when. We hear the stories of both the generals all the way down to the privates and how they viewed the battle. The book takes an all encompassing view of Gettysburg.<br />One of the more amazing things about this book are the notes. The story itself is 574 pages. The full book however is 866 pages. The 300 pages after the story itself consists of official rosters of both armies, an impressive 16 pages of bibliography and a staggering 200 pages of notes! The notes themselves, full of interesting side notes are as interesting to read as the main part of the book.<br />Lastly Coddington is simply a fine writer. No dry history book here. Coddington's writing skills make the book read like a good novel.	2004-02-07
US	49175467	R1NDO4750TU7QE	0306812673	647305880	These Honored Dead: How The Story Of Gettysburg Shaped American Memory	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A history of the history of Gettysburg	This is actually a pretty unique book on Gettysburg in that it's not a study of the battle itself but of the history of the battle and how people's perceptions of Gettysburg have been shaped over time. Tom Desjardin does a wonderful job of looking at some of the more famous parts of the battle such as Little Round Top and The High Water Mark and explaining why and how they became focal points. Many myths are explored and how they came into being such as the myth that the Confederates were a ragged shoeless army (They were actually well equipped). <br />Sickles' endless campaign after the battle to smear Meade's reputation also gets a close look as well as the evolution of the 20th Maine's role in the battle thanks to the book Killer Angels and the film Gettysburg.<br />The book also has some interesting info about the monuments on the field. We learn why the Armistead marker is in the wrong place, why the statue on the statue on the 83rd Pennsylvania monument looks so much like Stong Vincent and why there is no statue to Sickles on the Battlefield (Sickles embezzled the money!).<br />Lastly Tom Desjardin is just a plain good writer. To many books on history these days are written by people who while they do good research don't have great writing skills. Desjardin however is as good a writer as he is a scholor and the result is a very pleasant read.	2003-12-13
US	49175467	R3D2IBD14QDQBA	0195140826	67536816	Stand Firm Ye Boys from Maine: The 20th Maine and the Gettysburg Campaign	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Combines good research with good writing for a great book.	The book isn't one that would catch your eye in a bookstore. It's barely 200 pages long and at first looks like any number of books one will find related to Gettysburg and the Civil War. The difference is while there are a lot of good historians out there who are good researchers, few of them are as talented at writing as Tom Desjardin. <br />The 20th Maine is perhaps the most famous regiment that fought at Gettysburg and it's commander Lawrence Chamberlain is perhaps the most famous Union officer after Grant thanks in part to the book 'Killer Angels' and the film 'Gettysburg'. Unfortunately however there are a lot of myths surrounding both Chamberlain and the 20th Maine. This book cuts through the myths that the book and film have helped perpetuate without trying to tear down Chamberlain like some in recent years have tried to do. In the end the truth is just as facinating as the myths, if not more so.	2003-12-13
US	49175467	R1908GEUY383VN	1930448074	2869989	The Doctor's Pocket Calorie, Fat & Carbohydrate Counter	Books	5	163	166	N	Y	A must have	Last year I was diagnosed as a diabetic. While not an extreme case I still needed to start watching my carbs and weight. The problem is while watching your carbs and fat is easy at home, it's extremely difficult to do so while traveling. My wife and I went on a long trip last summer driving across a good chunk of the US. We were afraid my new diatary needs might spoil the trip a bit. I mean who wants to spend the whole time on vacation worrying about what you're going to eat all the time? This book allowed me to be able to stay within my carb and fat limits even when eating at places like McDonalds, Burger King or your average roadside diner.<br />The book has a ton of practical applications for someone trying to watch their calories, fat or carbs.<br />One last thing. Do not let the word \\"pocket\\" make you shy away from this book. Yeah, it can fit in your pocket but I looked through a number of full sized nutritional guides before finding this one and none of the $30 books has as much information and especially practical information as this book.<br />By the way. I lost 30 pounds and I'm in the best shape of my life!	2003-12-03
US	49175467	RAAWODEM5B5VG	0691102716	259213079	Gettysburg: Memory, Market, and an American Shrine	Books	1	8	14	N	Y	Worst Gettysburg book I have ever read	I'm trying to think of something good to say about this book but truth is I really can't. This is the worst book about Gettysburg I have ever read....and I've read quite a few. The goal of the book I thought was to trace the history of Gettysburg and how tourism and America's view of it has changed in relation to it. I couldn't wait to get this book when I read about it. I am an avid reader about Gettysburg and I was very much interested in reading this different viewpoint about it and it's history. Unfortunately this book is more of an liberalistic view of American culture using Gettysburg as a backdrop, and a rather egotistical one at that. <br />Weeks can't help but talking down anyone and everyone associated with Gettysburg. They all seem to be below his level of understanding. The tourists who visit the battlefield are ignorants who should be going to Disneyland instead and the battlefield is now nothing but a theme park, at least according to Weeks. He even makes fun of people talking about Gettysburg on the Internet in discussion groups. Re-enactors, preservationists and park officials all are criticized by Weeks who talks condescending about all of them. He is incapable of hiding his belief that he is intellectually superior to them. I'm not a Re-enactor but I'm sure those that are are not nearly the nit wits that Weeks makes them out to be.<br />As for the writing style, the book has all the dryness of a high school text book. Weeks has a tendency to ramble and to make matters worse he doesn't give the reader any credit for intelligence (no surprise since he doesn't give anyone in the book credit for intelligence either). To make sure we understand the point he is trying to make he will make it over and over again. <br />I really did have high hopes for this book but unfortunately it failed to live up to any of my expectations. There are a lot of great books about Gettysburg out there. This isn't one of them.	2003-05-14
US	49175467	RFP2A1I66M53K	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of Crichton's best...and that's saying something.	I was a bit unsure of this book when I first got it. It seemed very much like Crichton's early work Jurrasic Park. Was Crichton simply repackaging an old formula in a new wrapper? In truth there are a lot of elements in Prey that are similar to Jurrasic Park as well as his book Sphere towards the end of the book. Technology gone wrong and the suspense that there is something out there wanting to get at the people inside. These elements are present in both books. Don't let that worry you because it doesn't matter. This is a first rate thriller that stands on it's own and will please any Crichton fan.<br />What makes this book much different however from his previous books is it's downright creepy. Creepy like no other Crichton book that I can recall. It's almost as if Crichton had worked with Stephen King. It's almost like a old fashion ghost story but with technology rather than supernatural explinations.<br />Hard to write a review without giving much away and I don't want to spoil anything but needless to say Crichton has shown once again that he's one of the top writers of today.	2003-04-24
