US	49187160	ROFQMPFFP3E7U	0446611646	561654368	The Narrows (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A NOVEL THAT WILL GET YOU HOOKED ON THE "BOSCH" SERIES!!!	Though I've never been a big fan of the novels by Michael Connelly (I've only read two others so far), his newest paperback release, THE NARROWS, hooked me line and sinker.  I bought it, thinking that it would be an average read, but then found myself caught up in the hunt for the Poet by Harry Bosch and FBI agent Rachel Walling.  I ended up reading the book in just two days and now want to go back and get the earlier novels in the \\"Bosch\\" series.  I also intend to get THE CLOSERS when it comes out in hardcover.  If you haven't read anything by Mr. Connelly, then this is the one that will get you addicted to his writing.  And yes, I couldn't help but find myself seeing Clint Eastwood as the late Terry McCaleb.  I loved the way Connelly incorporated the screen version of BLOOD WORK into the novel and how it made Terry McCaleb famous by having Clint portray him in the movie.  Excellent writing and lots of fun for those of you who enjoy reading similar books by the likes of Thomas Harris and James Patterson.	2005-04-16
US	49187160	R3LK4ZZ3BL9LN4	0385504284	202497183	The Forgotten Man: A Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	A GLIMPLSE INSIDE THE SOUL OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST DETECTIVE	I've been reading Robert Crais since 1992, and I'm still like a little kid whenever a new \\"Elvis Cole/Joe Pike\\" novel comes out.  After waiting for two long years, I tried to make THE FORGOTTEN MAN last, but ended up reading it in one day.  The newest novel continues a few months where THE LAST DETECTIVE left off.  Elvis Cole has recovered from the wound in his hand, Lucy Chenier and her son, Ben, are now living permanently in Louisiana, the publicity has finally died down from the rescue of Ben from the kidnappers by Cole and Pike, and the World's Greatest Detective is now at a lost on what to do with his life now that Lucy and Ben are gone.  When the telephone rings at 3:58 in the morning and a voice tells Cole that a man has been killed who, in his last few breaths, claimed to be the Detective's long, lost father, a new adventure begins that will lead our hero on a journey of deep introspection and eventually to personal tragedy.  Along the way, the reader will learn of Cole's search for his father as a thirteen-year-old boy and what led him to become a detective many years later, why his mother would disappear for months at a time, leaving him with his grandparents.  The reader will also jump up and down at the return of Carol Starkey (DEMOLITION ANGEL & THE LAST DETECTIVE), who now has a crush of the World's Greatest Detective, but is afraid to let him know.  With the help of his close friends, Elvis Cole will track down the killer of the man who claimed to be his father, but at a cost that is devastating, leaving the reader numb and shocked, which is exactly how the author planned it.  THE FORGOTTEN MAN is Robert Crais at his best, delivering a story that is both compelling and fun to read.  It's been a tremendous pleasure to watch Mr. Crais grow as a writer over the last decade, as well as to see the characters of Elvis Cole and Joe Pike evolve.  This is definitely one of the best series on the market today, and I highly recommend it any reader who loves suspense and actionense and action	2005-02-20
US	49187160	ROTP695E8T0ED	0312301219	656741043	Ice Run: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE &quot;ALEX MCKNIGHT&quot; SERIES IS ONE OF THE BEST BEING WRITTEN	Since the publication of A COLD DAY IN PARADISE several years ago, the \\"Alex McKnight\\" series has gotten better and better with each preceding novel.  The newest book in the series, ICE RUN, is no exception.  It clearly displays the extraordinary talent of author, Steve Hamilton, putting him in the same class as James Lee Burke, Lawrence Block, and Dennis Lehane.  ICE RUN begins a few months later where BLOOD IN THE SKY left off.  Alex McKnight is still seeing Natalie Reynaud, an Ontario police officer who has been on an administrative leave of absence since her partner was killed the previous fall.  McKnight is so in love with this woman that he's starting to lose weight and to dye his hair, and he doesn't mind in the least making a two-and-a-half hour trip to her house once or twice a week.  This time, however, Natalie wants to visit him, but McKnight is somewhat embarrassed by the small cabin he lives in and talks Natalie into meeting him at the Ojibway Hotel in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.  That is the beginning of their troubles.  While at the hotel, they meet a strange old man named Simon Grant who befriends them with a bottle of champagne during dinner.  Later, the man leaves them a rather bizarre note that says, \\"I know who you are.\\"  He then walks out into a snowstorm at night and freezes to death.  When McKnight finds out about Simon Grant's death, he begins to dig into the old man's past to find out who he was and why he left the note.  Unbeknownst to McKnight, he opens Pandora's Box with his prying and almost gets killed right off the bat, finding himself caught up in a number of unsolved murders that took place decades before.  His love for Natalie will be severely tested as he seeks to find the answers that have eluted the police for so long, refusing to give up and finally accepting the fact that he can't do it alone.  With the help of his two friends, Leon Prudell and Vinnie LeBlanc, McKnight pushes ahead against the advice of others and eventually finds himself, along with Natalie, facing death with no way out!  ICE RUN is one of those books you can't put down once it's started.  The reader quickly finds himself/herself caught up in the mystery of Simon Grant's life and how Natalie and McKnight are involved with the past connecting to the present, revealing surprises that will change the lives of these two people forever.  Author Steve Hamilton is the real deal and knows how to bring each character alive so that the reader is with them each step of the way.  He knows how to create an atmosphere of cutting-edge suspense that is tied closely to the coldness of the locale (which is almost a character within itself), each feeding upon the other and building to an avalanche of shocking revelations that not only stuns the lead characters, but the reader as well.  Mysteries and suspense thrillers don't get much better this.  Needless to say, ICE RUN succeeds on every level and should be a contender for the bestseller lists.  If you want a new series to get addicted to, then pick-up the \\"Alex McKnight\\" books.  I guarantee you'll have all six of them read within the first week!!!nds himself, along with Natalie, facing death with no way out!  ICE RUN is one of those books you can't put down once it's started.  The reader quickly finds himself/herself caught up in the mystery of Simon Grant's life and how Natalie and McKnight are involved with the past connecting to the present, revealing surprises that will change the lives of these two people forever.  Author Steve Hamilton is the real deal and knows how to bring each character alive so that the reader is with them each step of the way.  He knows how to create an atmosphere of cutting-edge suspense that is tied closely to the coldness of the locale (which is almost a character within itself), each feeding upon the other and building to an avalanche of shocking revelations that not only stuns the lead characters, but the reader as well.  Mysteries and suspense thrillers don't get much better this.  Needless to say, ICE RUN succeeds on every level and should be a contender for the bestseller lists.  If you want a new series to get addicted to, then pick-up the \\"Alex McKnight\\" books.  I guarantee you'll have all six of them read within the first week!!!	2004-08-02
US	49187160	RB4FXM6SC3L8X	0451212479	561216540	Bait and Switch	Books	5	3	3	N	N	SCHMITT HAPPENS, AND BOY DOES HE!!!!!	The author of three previous novels (DARKNESS BOUND, PRESSURE POINTS & SERPENT'S DANCE), Larry Brooks has surpassed himself with his newest book, BAIT AND SWITCH.  This is the story of Wolfgang Schmitt, a man who's still recovering from the unexpected departure of his girlfriend and is ready to end his current career in advertising to start something new and exciting.  As the old saying goes, when one door closes, another one opens.  The door that suddenly opens for Schmitt involves billionaire software tycoon, Nelson Scott and the impending divorce from his wife, Kelly.  Through a rather unusual set of circumstances, Scott has become aware of Wolfgang Schmitt and believes that this former model may be perfect for a job he has in mind.  Nelson Scott (along with his lovely assistant, Lee Van Wyke) approaches Schmitt with the offer of five million dollars if he will seduce Kelly and live with her for a short period of time, thus setting off a prenuptial clause that will save Scott at least thirty-six million dollars a year in alimony payments.  Schmitt is given twenty-four hours to think about it.  What eventually pushes Schmitt to take the job against his better judgment are two federal agents putting pressure on him to do as Scott wants.  It seems as thought the Federal Government has an interest in Scott and some of his financial dealings, and the two agents hope that Schmitt might be able to gain some valuable information by sleeping with the billionaire's angry wife.  Of course, as in all of the novels by Larry Brooks, nothing is as it seems.  Schmitt doesn't know that when he begrudgingly takes the job, he's entering a spider's web that is filled with beautiful deadly women, the ultra rich, untold lies, betrayal from every side, murder galore, and that his life may be the next one laid out on the chopping board.  Before this deadly game of cat and mouse is over, Schmitt won't know whom to trust or where the next bullet is coming from.  Unlike DARKNESS BOUND & SERPENT'S DANCE, the fourth novel by Larry Brooks is low on sex, but filled with high-tension eroticism.  This book is abound with incredibly beautiful, sexy, intelligent, aggressive, dominant women who manipulate the main character as if he were a pawn in a chess match, carefully maneuvering him for the final kill.  Brooks skillfully weaves an intricate structure of mistrust and deceit and unbelievable suspense that not only keeps our hero on his toes, but the reader as well.  Nothing can prepare you for the ending.  I never saw it coming.  I thought with a smugness that I knew exactly what was going to happen in the last twenty or so pages (of course, this is after several startling surprises), but boy was I wrong!  The author set me up and then pulled the rug out from under my feet with one swift movement.  I'm still feeling the affect two days later, amazed at how it was done.  BAIT AND SWITCH is definitely a novel that both men and women will love, but a warning to the guys out there.  Like Larry Brooks' first novel, DARKNESS BOUND, this book is also a learning manual for women on how to control and manipulate the men in their lives.  The male population won't have a chance after the ladies read this!!  Read BAIT AND SWITCH, and then you'll see that the war between the sexes has never been so deadly and so delicious.RPENT'S DANCE, the fourth novel by Larry Brooks is low on sex, but filled with high-tension eroticism.  This book is abound with incredibly beautiful, sexy, intelligent, aggressive, dominant women who manipulate the main character as if he were a pawn in a chess match, carefully maneuvering him for the final kill.  Brooks skillfully weaves an intricate structure of mistrust and deceit and unbelievable suspense that not only keeps our hero on his toes, but the reader as well.  Nothing can prepare you for the ending.  I never saw it coming.  I thought with a smugness that I knew exactly what was going to happen in the last twenty or so pages (of course, this is after several startling surprises), but boy was I wrong!  The author set me up and then pulled the rug out from under my feet with one swift movement.  I'm still feeling the affect two days later, amazed at how it was done.  BAIT AND SWITCH is definitely a novel that both men and women will love, but a warning to the guys out there.  Like Larry Brooks' first novel, DARKNESS BOUND, this book is also a learning manual for women on how to control and manipulate the men in their lives.  The male population won't have a chance after the ladies read this!!  Read BAIT AND SWITCH, and then you'll see that the war between the sexes has never been so deadly and so delicious.	2004-07-24
US	49187160	R27BB8NPWXA88N	0385336675	649745987	The Enemy (Jack Reacher, No. 8)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	THIS NOVEL LIFTS THE SERIES TO A NEW HEIGHT!!!!	Here's a quick plug for the PERSUADER.  Though I didn't write a review on that particular book, I considered it to be a solid 6-Star novel (a 5-Star rating being the highest that can be given on Amazon.com) and wondered if Lee Child would be able to top it.  I now have my answer with THE ENEMY.  In the newest \\"Jack Reacher\\" novel (think Nelson DeMille's THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER), the author takes our famous ex-MP back to 1990 when Reacher was still a Major in the Army and what led to his dissatisfaction with the Military.  Suddenly transferred without any warning from the hot action of Panama to the quiet life of Fort Bird Army Base in North Carolina (I'm from N.C. and I've never heard of Fort Bird, which makes me think that it's actually supposed to be Fort Bragg-the home of U.S. Army Special Forces and Delta Force), Reacher finds himself immediately caught up the unexpected death of a visiting U.S. General from Germany.  Though deemed \\"death by natural causes,\\" the late General's briefcase turns up missing, which sets up a series of future murders that may, or may not, be connected.  There's a military agenda in the General's missing briefcase, dealing with a huge transformation that the military is about to go through with the downfall of Soviet Russia.  Everybody seems to be secretly trying to get their hands on the agenda, while at the same time blocking Reacher's investigation.  When the deaths of two Delta Force soldiers occur and the rumor starts flowing around that Reacher killed them, our hero finds himself combating not only a hidden enemy within the higher Army's echelon, but also being placed at the top of Delta Force's hit list.  The only person who believes in him is a black, female officer in the MPs named Summer, and she's more than willing to tangle with whomever gets in her way.  Reacher only has a short amount of time to find the answers before the members of Delta Force decide to take matters into their own hands to get revenge for their dead comrades.  THE ENEMY had me staying up way past my bedtime, trying to figure out what was really happening, asking myself who the villains actually were, and questioning whether or not Reacher was tough enough to take on the members of Delta Force (yes, he is!).  As usual, Lee Child is at the top of his form in writing and plot development and creating enough suspense to keep the reader hanging on for dear life.  You're with Reacher every step of the way as he plows ahead with clear intelligence and brute force, defying direct orders from superior officers and death threats from the country's most highly trained killers.  The author makes you cheer out loud for Reacher and his code of honor, realizing that this is the type of man you would want covering your back in a fox hole.  Read THE ENEMY and you'll become an instant fan of Jack Reacher.  No brag, just fact!!!ades.  THE ENEMY had me staying up way past my bedtime, trying to figure out what was really happening, asking myself who the villains actually were, and questioning whether or not Reacher was tough enough to take on the members of Delta Force (yes, he is!).  As usual, Lee Child is at the top of his form in writing and plot development and creating enough suspense to keep the reader hanging on for dear life.  You're with Reacher every step of the way as he plows ahead with clear intelligence and brute force, defying direct orders from superior officers and death threats from the country's most highly trained killers.  The author makes you cheer out loud for Reacher and his code of honor, realizing that this is the type of man you would want covering your back in a fox hole.  Read THE ENEMY and you'll become an instant fan of Jack Reacher.  No brag, just fact!!!	2004-06-08
US	49187160	RGNGAHA65FY2S	1400041732	445580554	Down Here: A Burke Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	VACHSS IS GETTING CLOSER TO THE OLD BURKE!!!	Well, at least Burke is back in New York City with his family (Mama, Max the Silent, the Professor, Michelle, the Mole, Clarence and Terry).  That's a beginning!  In the newest novel by Andrew Vachss, DOWN HERE, Burke has to come to the aid of Wolfe, a woman who is a former prosecutor of sex crimes for the DA's office and someone our slightly tarnished hero has loved for a long time.  A sexual predator that Wolfe put away is now back on the streets.  The only problem is that some unknown assailant put three bullets into him, and the freak is claiming that it was Wolfe doing the shooting.  When Wolfe is arrested and charged with attempted murder, her friends quickly approach Burke for help.  For Burke, this is his chance to show Wolfe just how much he truly cares for her.  He immediately calls in his family for assistance and draws up a battle plan for getting Wolfe out of jail and proving her innocence.  I have to admit to actually getting goose bumps of excitement about twenty pages into the book, thinking that Burke and Max the Silent were going to go ballistic in their attempt to save Wolfe.  Unfortunately, that didn't take place.  Basically what happened is that the family helped Burke to investigate the freak's background and his victims in an effort to find out why he lied about the person who shot him.  Burke does a lot of meetings, driving around, interviewing, telephoning, worrying, and little else.  By the last sixty pages of the book, I was trying not to fall asleep with boredom.  Even Wolfe was telling Burke that he was no longer needed.  Still, as in ONLY CHILD, it was great to have Burke back in his natural habitat with his family of choice.  If only the author would interject more action into his novels, he would once again have books that stand out from the ordinary and display his skill as a writer with no comparison.  The character of Wesley keeps being mentioned in the \\"Burke\\" series as if the author's teasing his long-time fans with future possibilities.  I wish Mr. Vachss would just bring Wesley back so that he and Burke and Max the Silent can do what they're best at which is taking out the bad guys.  Now, I will say that the price of DOWN HERE is more than reasonable.  At $19.95, it's several dollars cheaper than the average hardcover.  I don't know if that's the author's doing, or the publisher's.  I would like to think that Mr. Vachss is trying to give his fans a break by easing the strain on their wallets.  Will I buy the next \\"Burke\\" novel in hardcover when it comes out?  As much as I whine about the new books in the series not being as good as the old ones, I'm still a \\"Burke\\" addict at heart.  So, the answer is a definite \\"yes.\\"ilities.  I wish Mr. Vachss would just bring Wesley back so that he and Burke and Max the Silent can do what they're best at which is taking out the bad guys.  Now, I will say that the price of DOWN HERE is more than reasonable.  At $19.95, it's several dollars cheaper than the average hardcover.  I don't know if that's the author's doing, or the publisher's.  I would like to think that Mr. Vachss is trying to give his fans a break by easing the strain on their wallets.  Will I buy the next \\"Burke\\" novel in hardcover when it comes out?  As much as I whine about the new books in the series not being as good as the old ones, I'm still a \\"Burke\\" addict at heart.  So, the answer is a definite \\"yes.\\"	2004-05-01
US	49187160	R1WPCTN3U5A9E2	0786712651	346312545	Quiller Balalaika (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	THE END OF A LITERARY LEGEND!!!	I read the QUILLER MEMORANDUM in the fall of 1969, during my freshman year in college and was introduced to a British agent who traveled to dangerous, exotic locales and put his life on the line time and time again, using only his mind and martial art skills to complete the mission and then return home safely.  This was an agent who dared to let the reader into his mind and see just how human he really was, and how the stress of the job affected his solitary life.  This was a spy who was totally different from the other fictional characters of the Sixties such as James Bond, Sam Durrell, and Matt Helm.  This was someone I could actually identify with, feeling the fear and pressure of each assignment, not knowing if you would die some terrible death in a foreign land, or be coming back alive.  Needless to say, I became a die-hard fan of Quiller and his author, Adam Hall (a.k.a. Elleston Trevor) and would diligently search out any Quiller novels over the next thirty years.  Finding a book by Adam Hall was always a true gift of the spirit.  It wasn't until I finally purchased a computer three years ago that I found out the author had died of cancer in 1995, just as he finished QUILLER BALALAIKA, the last novel in an utterly fantastic series.  Though the book was immediately published in England after Mr. Trevor's death, it would be eight years before it saw publication in the United States.  While not considered the best in the \\"Quiller\\" series, this novel is the last, and that makes QUILLER BALALAIKA very, very special.  In this story, our famous secret agent is sent to Russia on what is basically a suicide mission.  He knows it, as does the head of British Intelligence.  Quiller is given the absolute best team to work with (Ferris and Croder) and then told to go to Moscow, infiltrate the Russian Mafia, and take out its leader, Vasyl Sakkas.  Sakkas is about to bring down Boris Yeltsin and his Russian government, and this will have an astronomical affect on the rest of the world.  To get close to Sakkas, Quiller will have to place his life on the line and hope there's a way out once the dirty deed is done.  There are some truly excellent scenes in the book that stay in the reader's mind long after the novel has been finished.  In one, Quiller finds himself in a room with three professional killers and realizes that he will have to take each of them out in hand-to-hand combat at the same time, or die.  In another scene, to stay alive and escape the wrath of Sakkas' men, Quiller must navigate his way across the snow-covered roofs of several buildings during the night, trying not to fall as he jumps from one to another.  The final scenes in the book do feel rushed and probably were since the author was dictating the last chapters to his son just before he died.  Still, QUILLER BALALAIKA is an excellent read with the last page leaving the reader filled with a deep sense of sadness, knowing that there won't be any more missions for our British agent.  Elleston Trevor was indeed a true master of the written word, and he is sorely missed by all of his fans.  Wherever you are, Mr. Trevor, I bow my head in gratitude.f the world.  To get close to Sakkas, Quiller will have to place his life on the line and hope there's a way out once the dirty deed is done.  There are some truly excellent scenes in the book that stay in the reader's mind long after the novel has been finished.  In one, Quiller finds himself in a room with three professional killers and realizes that he will have to take each of them out in hand-to-hand combat at the same time, or die.  In another scene, to stay alive and escape the wrath of Sakkas' men, Quiller must navigate his way across the snow-covered roofs of several buildings during the night, trying not to fall as he jumps from one to another.  The final scenes in the book do feel rushed and probably were since the author was dictating the last chapters to his son just before he died.  Still, QUILLER BALALAIKA is an excellent read with the last page leaving the reader filled with a deep sense of sadness, knowing that there won't be any more missions for our British agent.  Elleston Trevor was indeed a true master of the written word, and he is sorely missed by all of his fans.  Wherever you are, Mr. Trevor, I bow my head in gratitude.	2004-04-29
US	49187160	R267XTK6JDIXGE	0515136387	746709784	The Upright Man (Straw Men)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A DISAPPOINTING SEQUEL TO A GREAT NOVEL!!!	When I first heard that a sequel to Michael Marshall's THE STRAW MEN (I gave this novel a five-star rating) was out, I was filled with excitement and anticipation like a little kid at a birthday party.  I loved Marshall's first novel, especially the concept of a community where only serial killers lived.  That was something new and intriguing, and I'd hoped that the second book in the series, THE UPRIGHT MAN, would continue to explore this particular theme.  Unfortunately, Marshall's newest novel doesn't come even close to equaling his first, which is a huge disappointment to me.  I will say that this book does have a fabulous opening chapter, though it doesn't follow through with the expectations it creates in the reader.  John Zandt (ex-LAPD Homicide Detective), following a tip, leads Ward Hopkins (ex-CIA agent) to an area in Washington State called Dry Creek where over a dozen corpses have been left by either the Straw Men, or the Upright Man (Ward's twin brother), some of them in rather unusual and humorous positions.  Zandt and Hopkins check out the crime scene, then go their separate ways.  That's pretty much the last time Dry Creek is mentioned in the book.  Anyway, John Zandt goes off on his own path, methodically hunting down members of the Straw Men in his vengeful search for the Upright Man.  Little is known about Zandt's journey till the very end of the book.  Ward, however, tries to hide from the Straw Men, but eventually gives up and begins to search for information about his brother's past, starting in San Francisco.  While this is going on, Nina Baynam (FBI agent and Zandt's former lover) finds herself involved in a double-murder case in Los Angeles that may involve the Straw Men.  So far everything is set up nicely to hook the reader.  What throws the book way off course is another subplot involving a salesman by the name of Tom Kozelek who attempts suicide by walking ten miles into a snow-filled forest with nothing but booze and pills to keep him company, the strange citizens of Sheffer, Washington who seem to be hiding some dark secret, and the possibility that Big Foot is actually real.  This subplot takes away from the rest of the story and eats up at least a hundred pages of the book.  Each time a new chapter came along that dealt with good-old Tom and his sighting of Big Foot, I found myself scratching my head in utter confusion, wondering why the author was even including this stuff in the book.  I wanted to skip over these chapters (and almost did a couple of times), but I was afraid that I'd miss something important with regards to the rest of the novel.  Of course, the whole point of this particular subplot becomes clear near the end, but I didn't find the answers very satisfying.  It's only because I enjoyed the parts dealing with Nina Baynam and Ward Hopkins that I'm even giving this novel a three-star rating.  And it's only because I loved THE STRAW MEN so much that I'd even consider buying the third book in the series when it finally comes out.  Michael Marshall has already proven that he can write an action-packed, edge-of-your-seat thriller that's filled with new ideas.  The author is also great at creating strong and interesting characters-both protagonists and antagonists-- and at weaving a complex story line, intertwined with several fascinating subplots that merge together at the end for a very satisfying finale (at least in his first novel).  If you've read THE STRAW MEN and are somewhat like me, you'll want to buy THE UPRIGHT MAN and draw your own conclusions about it.  Hopefully, the author will learn from this and do a much better job on the next book.  And, probably like the rest of you, I'll buy it as soon as it comes out.ompany, the strange citizens of Sheffer, Washington who seem to be hiding some dark secret, and the possibility that Big Foot is actually real.  This subplot takes away from the rest of the story and eats up at least a hundred pages of the book.  Each time a new chapter came along that dealt with good-old Tom and his sighting of Big Foot, I found myself scratching my head in utter confusion, wondering why the author was even including this stuff in the book.  I wanted to skip over these chapters (and almost did a couple of times), but I was afraid that I'd miss something important with regards to the rest of the novel.  Of course, the whole point of this particular subplot becomes clear near the end, but I didn't find the answers very satisfying.  It's only because I enjoyed the parts dealing with Nina Baynam and Ward Hopkins that I'm even giving this novel a three-star rating.  And it's only because I loved THE STRAW MEN so much that I'd even consider buying the third book in the series when it finally comes out.  Michael Marshall has already proven that he can write an action-packed, edge-of-your-seat thriller that's filled with new ideas.  The author is also great at creating strong and interesting characters-both protagonists and antagonists-- and at weaving a complex story line, intertwined with several fascinating subplots that merge together at the end for a very satisfying finale (at least in his first novel).  If you've read THE STRAW MEN and are somewhat like me, you'll want to buy THE UPRIGHT MAN and draw your own conclusions about it.  Hopefully, the author will learn from this and do a much better job on the next book.  And, probably like the rest of you, I'll buy it as soon as it comes out.	2004-04-27
US	49187160	RGHB47MXHBV28	0743463781	127829495	Remembering Sarah	Books	5	2	2	N	N	CHRIS MOONEY ONCE AGAIN DELIVERS IN FULL FORCE!!!	Though different in scope from DEVIANT WAYS & WORLD WITHOUT END, Chris Mooney's newest novel clearly proves that this author's name is becoming synonymous with edge-of-your-seat suspense.  REMEMBERING SARAH is the story of Mike Sullivan--a man whose life has been filled with turmoil and tragedy.  As an eight-year-old boy, Mike experienced the abandonment of his mother, who left him and his criminally inclined father without so much as a word or note.  Then, as a teenager, Mike accidentally discovered information which led him to believe his father tracked down and murdered his mother.  Things wouldn't be any easier for him as an adult.  Ignoring his wife's fears, Mike decides to take his six-year-old daughter, Sarah, sledding one cold day as a snow storm is getting ready to hit Belham, Massachusetts.  Despite the large crowd of kids and their parents playing on a snow-covered hill, a predator manages to grab Sarah Sullivan and disappear with her.  Though there's no actual proof, the local police suspect that former Catholic priest, Francis Jonah, is the person responsible for the child's disappearance.  It isn't until five years later--after Mike has lost his wife and most everything he cares about--that a clue about Sarah suddenly appears on the same hill that she disappeared from.  From that point on, Mike must turn to an old girlfriend for help, as well as the father he has hated for so many years.  This will be a journey of revenge and awakening for Mike as he discovers that not everything, or everyone, is as it seems, especially those closest to him.  REMEMBERING SARAH is the type of novel that grips you in the first few chapters, compelling the reader to move forward at a break-neck speed in an attempt to find the answers to this complex mystery.  Chris Mooney is an author who knows how to skillfully hook the reader at the end of each chapter, making it impossible to put the book down.  This is, in my opinion, what great writing is really about.  The author also has a special gift for creating characters that the reader immediately identifies with and understands.  This makes for a journey that's much more personal to the reader, because he/she truly cares about what happens to the main characters and is emotionally tied to the end results.  Mr. Mooney has certainly shown with his third novel, that his talent knows no bounds and that he's capable of writing whatever he sets his mind to.  REMEMBERING SARAH is the book that will finally put this author on the top ten bestseller lists.  My only wish is that it won't be as long before his next novel comes out.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!so has a special gift for creating characters that the reader immediately identifies with and understands.  This makes for a journey that's much more personal to the reader, because he/she truly cares about what happens to the main characters and is emotionally tied to the end results.  Mr. Mooney has certainly shown with his third novel, that his talent knows no bounds and that he's capable of writing whatever he sets his mind to.  REMEMBERING SARAH is the book that will finally put this author on the top ten bestseller lists.  My only wish is that it won't be as long before his next novel comes out.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2004-04-26
US	49187160	R28GJANTM135N0	0743249925	652336182	The Bookman's Promise	Books	5	25	28	N	N	FINNALLY, ANOTHER &quot;CLIFF JANEWAY&quot; NOVEL!!!	It's been almost a decade since the last \\"Cliff Janeway\\" novel by John Dunning, but the wait was well worth it.  Mr. Dunning's newest book, THE BOOKMAN'S PROMISE, brings back our ex-Denver homicide detective/book dealer in rare form as he seeks to find the murderer of a new friend and information concerning Sir Richard Burton's (legendary Nineteenth Century explorer and author) trip to the United States just before the start of the Civil War.  It all begins when Janeway purchases a rare book by Richard Burton in pristine condition and inscribed by Burton to someone named Charlie Warren at an auction.  Within weeks, an elderly woman appears at Janeway's bookstore, claiming to be the granddaughter of Charlie Warren and asking Janeway to help her find the missing library of Burton books that were stolen from her family after her grandfather died.  As proof of her claim, she presents Janeway with another book by Burton, also in pristine condition and inscribed to her grandfather.  This leads Janeway to a book dealer in Baltimore and a dangerous thug who's more than willing to kill in order to stop Janeway in his search.  Janeway then heads to Charleston, South Carolina where Richard Burton and Charlie Warren spent several days, supposedly causing the start of the War Between the States.  What will Janeway discover and how many people will have to die because of something that happened over 150 years ago?  As in the previous two \\"Janeway\\" novels (BOOKED TO DIE and THE BOOKMAN'S WAKE), Mr. Dunning creates a marvelous mystery filled with strong character development, suspense, and bare-knuckles action, while at the same time delving into the intriguing world of rare books and what makes one book more valuable than another.  Any \\"Janeway\\" novel is certainly a special treat for lovers of well-written mysteries and the world of antique books.  John Dunning definitely knows his subject matter and manages to make it quite vivid and entertaining.  I can't highly recommend this novel enough, or the two previous ones in the series.  I sincerely hope Mr. Dunning won't wait as long before presenting his growing legion of fans with his next \\"Janeway\\" novel.ovel enough, or the two previous ones in the series.  I sincerely hope Mr. Dunning won't wait as long before presenting his growing legion of fans with his next \\"Janeway\\" novel.	2004-03-28
US	49187160	R1I0VSHI6Y13IC	0451207955	828688477	Serpent's Dance	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A DELICIOUS NOVEL OF SEXUAL DEPRAVITY AND REVENGE!!!	Larry Brooks has written another masterful, erotic, psychological thriller that equals, if not surpasses, his first novel, DARKNESS BOUND.  This book will give new meaning to the word \\"relationships\\" and how even the darkest of them need a little love thrown in now and again.  In the newest of what Mr. Brooks jokingly refers to as \\"relationship thrillers,\\" SERPENT'S DANCE begins its dark tale of woe by introducing Bernadette Kane, a beautiful, strong-willed woman who's determined to get retribution against the man who caused her sister to commit adultery and then suicide.  There isn't much that Bernie knows about this secretive individual other than that his first name is Wesley, he's rich and has a personal jet plane, and that he lives somewhere around Phoenix, Arizona.  With the help of her close friend, Eric Killen, it proves to be enough to get her headed in the right direction.  It isn't long before she finds herself not only living in Scottsdale, Arizona, but also working for the man (Wesley Edwards) whom she thinks caused her sister's tragedy.  Worming her way into the good graces of Wesley and winning his trust proves to be a challenge because he's in the middle of an illegal deal that could earn him and his company millions of dollars.  Bernie, however, is a very persistent lady who knows how to manipulate the sexual buttons on men with her beauty and intellect.  She'll seduce Wesley one way or another, and then extract her revenge on him.  What Bernie's totally unaware of is the large number of subplots spinning around her.  More is going on underneath the surface than even she can imagine.  One of the plots involves a couple who call themselves Diana and Damien-both of whom are into some serious kinky sex and are now upping the stakes to include murder.  Damien has his eyes on Bernie and wants to bring her into the love triangle, seeing how close he can get to the raging fire without being burned.  Bernie will soon have her hands full with the hottest sex of a lifetime, double-crosses and triple-crosses, and just trying to stay alive long enough to find out what really happened to her sister.  I have to admit that SERPENT'S DANCE stimulated my libido with the kinky exploits of Diana and Damien.  I got so caught up in what they were doing that I neglected to pay attention to what was going on in the rest of the novel and was therefore stunned by an unexpected turn of events.  I don't want to give too much away, but I will tell you to prepare yourself for the unexpected during the final hundred pages.  Nothing will turn out as it seems, and there will be a load of surprises that appear to come from out of nowhere until everything is explained.  With regards to the characters in the novel, Diana and Damien steal the show from everyone else.  These two people are the epitome of darkness, sexual depravity, and death.  This isn't to take away from the other solid characterizations in the book.  It's just that Diana and Damien were more fun and interesting to hang around with, filling me with curiosity and a desire to learn more about them.  Though things didn't quite workout the way I expected, Larry Brooks still turned out a superb thriller that's utterly suspenseful, erotic in the darkest sense of the word, and shocking to the core.  Mr. Brooks has created a genre of his very own with absolutely no competition from other authors.  Read SERPENT'S DANCE first, then pick up copies of DARKNESS BOUND and PRESSURE POINTS, and see if I'm not right.  This author definitely knows how to turn up the temperature!x of a lifetime, double-crosses and triple-crosses, and just trying to stay alive long enough to find out what really happened to her sister.  I have to admit that SERPENT'S DANCE stimulated my libido with the kinky exploits of Diana and Damien.  I got so caught up in what they were doing that I neglected to pay attention to what was going on in the rest of the novel and was therefore stunned by an unexpected turn of events.  I don't want to give too much away, but I will tell you to prepare yourself for the unexpected during the final hundred pages.  Nothing will turn out as it seems, and there will be a load of surprises that appear to come from out of nowhere until everything is explained.  With regards to the characters in the novel, Diana and Damien steal the show from everyone else.  These two people are the epitome of darkness, sexual depravity, and death.  This isn't to take away from the other solid characterizations in the book.  It's just that Diana and Damien were more fun and interesting to hang around with, filling me with curiosity and a desire to learn more about them.  Though things didn't quite workout the way I expected, Larry Brooks still turned out a superb thriller that's utterly suspenseful, erotic in the darkest sense of the word, and shocking to the core.  Mr. Brooks has created a genre of his very own with absolutely no competition from other authors.  Read SERPENT'S DANCE first, then pick up copies of DARKNESS BOUND and PRESSURE POINTS, and see if I'm not right.  This author definitely knows how to turn up the temperature!	2003-03-27
US	49187160	R2NEU9EN7BR56M	078601475X	361558413	The Forgotten (Pinnacle horror)	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	ANOTHER FUN READ WITH HORROR, SEX, AND KITTY CATS!!!	In Tamara Thorne's latest horror novel, THE FORGOTTEN, she explores a new area of the supernatural that deals with Extra-Low Frequency electronic transmissions and how they can affect the energy around us.  The story starts off with the sudden erratic behavior of birds and animals in the seaside community of Caledonia, California.  Psychologist Will Banning is in the middle of a therapy session when a large flock of crows crash through the back French doors of his office, reminiscent of the old Hitchcock movie, The Birds.  Before the day is over with, Banning discovers that it wasn't only the birds that acted unusual, but also dogs and cats and even people.  He and his best friend, Maggie Maewood (the local veterinarian), along with a few other close friends, attempt to make sense of the whole incident, but find themselves dumbfounded.  Things grow steadily worse in the days ahead as many of the town's people begin to hear voices and to see actual ghosts.  What only a handful of individuals are aware of is that this strange phenomenon is the direct result of a secret government experiment involving low frequency electronic transmissions.  No one, however, expected the transmissions to seriously affect the energy level within the town and to cause the appearance of ghosts and the deaths of innocent people.  As Will and Maggie draw closer to the answers, the Army personal involved with this experiment may have to take drastic measures to ensure that no word of this becomes public knowledge, even if it means murdering some of Caledonia's finest citizens.  THE FORGOTTEN is the type of fun novel that you want to curl up with at night, or on a lazy Saturday afternoon, digging into the story, becoming friends with many of the characters, trying to guest what's going to happen, and delighting when the \\"wicked\\" get their just dues.  The characters of Will and Maggie are like the old movie romances of the thirties and forties-lovable, honest, intelligent people who are unable to see the strong bond that they have between each other, though everyone else seems to be aware of it.  I have to admit that it takes forever for them to finally kiss, but the wait is well worth it.  Their close friends, Gabe and Kevin, and Will's three cats, however, almost steal the show.  The Orange Boys (Will's cats) are definitely more in tune with what's going on than their owner is.  People should automatically pay closer attention to their animal's behavior.  Cats are smart and won't lead you astray.  With regards to Gabe and Kevin, they're too busy enjoying their lives-especially their sex lives-together than to worry about what's going on in Caledonia.  Will's brother, Pete, also grabs a good deal of the attention because he's the type of sibling every kid has nightmares of having.  This is the kind of guy who beats up on his little brother and mistreats the women in his life.  Still, other than Gabe and Kevin, Pete seems to be about the only one having an active sex life.  You have to admire the guy for that.  Another thing I liked about THE FORGOTTEN is the use of quantum physics and how certain low microwave transmissions might be able to influence the energy of spirits.  Everything in the universe is energy, and energy can't be destroyed.  It can only change shape.  What today's scientists know about the universe and humanity's relationship to it is only the tip of the iceberg.  Things we can't see or understand today might be commonly accepted twenty years from now, and that goes for ghosts.  There's simply too much that we still don't understand about death and energy.  If you just want to have some light fun and escape from the drudgery of day-to-day living, then pick up Tamara Thorne's THE FORGOTTEN and visit the town of Caledonia for a short period of time.  I promise it will give you pause on how you choose to view cable television and the behavior of your pets.  That alone is worth the price of admission.to see the strong bond that they have between each other, though everyone else seems to be aware of it.  I have to admit that it takes forever for them to finally kiss, but the wait is well worth it.  Their close friends, Gabe and Kevin, and Will's three cats, however, almost steal the show.  The Orange Boys (Will's cats) are definitely more in tune with what's going on than their owner is.  People should automatically pay closer attention to their animal's behavior.  Cats are smart and won't lead you astray.  With regards to Gabe and Kevin, they're too busy enjoying their lives-especially their sex lives-together than to worry about what's going on in Caledonia.  Will's brother, Pete, also grabs a good deal of the attention because he's the type of sibling every kid has nightmares of having.  This is the kind of guy who beats up on his little brother and mistreats the women in his life.  Still, other than Gabe and Kevin, Pete seems to be about the only one having an active sex life.  You have to admire the guy for that.  Another thing I liked about THE FORGOTTEN is the use of quantum physics and how certain low microwave transmissions might be able to influence the energy of spirits.  Everything in the universe is energy, and energy can't be destroyed.  It can only change shape.  What today's scientists know about the universe and humanity's relationship to it is only the tip of the iceberg.  Things we can't see or understand today might be commonly accepted twenty years from now, and that goes for ghosts.  There's simply too much that we still don't understand about death and energy.  If you just want to have some light fun and escape from the drudgery of day-to-day living, then pick up Tamara Thorne's THE FORGOTTEN and visit the town of Caledonia for a short period of time.  I promise it will give you pause on how you choose to view cable television and the behavior of your pets.  That alone is worth the price of admission.	2003-02-01
US	49187160	R2QC1BSY0DENI	0786015012	610152600	The Invoker (Lawson Vampire Novels)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A THRILLING NEW APPROACH TO THE VAMPIRE LEGEND!	THE INVOKER is the second novel in the action-packed \\"Vampire Lawson\\" series and begins a few months later from where THE FIXER left off.  In this one, Lawson (a.k.a. the Fixer) returns to save the life of a young vampire boy who has unusual supernatural powers, to do battle against a renegade Fixer from Russia, and to destroy a powerful, deadly traitor within the secretive vampire Council.  It all begins when Lawson is ordered by the Council to terminate a fellow vampire (Henry Watterson) who's suspected of dealing drugs to both humans and vampires.  As the Fixer carries out his assignment and dispatches the drug dealer, the dying vampire states his innocence and begs Lawson to protect his son, Jack.  It's only then that Lawson begins to realize that he's been set up to kill an innocent man.  The question is why?  Hurrying to the dead vampire's home, Lawson detects a team of killers descending upon the house.  They're after the twelve-year-old boy that lives there.  Lawson carefully takes them out, but not before witnessing the strange power that Jack possesses.  It isn't long before Lawson finds out that Jack is an Invoker and can draw the spiritual energy of dead vampires to him, harnessing it, and destroying anything within his path.  A traitor within the Council, however, wants the boy so that she can increase her own powers, and she hires Petrov (a former Fixer who's been in hiding for several years) and a small army of killers to take the boy away from Lawson.  This leads to gun battles, electrical torture, and eventually a chase that will end on the other side of the world in the Himalayan Mountains of Nepal.  Author Jon F. Merz has created a new world in which vampires live secretly within human society; yet, they also live by their own set of rules and social etiquette.  When a vampire steps outside the parameters set for them and draws unnecessary attention, a Fixer is quickly called in to balance out the situation, usually with extreme prejudice.  In the character of Lawson, the author has envisioned a unique type of vampire who plays by his own rules when carrying out assignments.  He has a strong code of honor, reminiscent of the ancient Japanese samurai, and can't be bought or frightened by anyone, no matter how powerful or influential they might be.  One the things that hooked me is Lawson's background in the martial arts.  It's clear that the author is a actual martial artist himself and uses his knowledge to enhanced Lawson's almost mythical persona.  I enjoyed the scenes in which our Fixer has to fight in hand-to-hand combat, sometimes using a Japanese bokken (wooden sword) to kill his fellow vampires.  There's also the journey through the Himalayan Mountains and Lawson's encounter with an ancient Buddhist sect of warrior monks that gives him a deeper understanding of the Bushido code.  I loved the combination of religious mysticism and traditional martial arts in this novel.  It not only entertains, but also causes the reader to think about other cultures and how life is lived within them.  Finally, not only is the storyline in THE INVOKER fast and furious, and the main character a different, darker shadow of the standard hero, but the secondary characters of Wirek and Arthur rock, too, with their own special blend of toughness and spiritual insight.  These are characters that bring a heart-felt balance to Lawson's no-nonsense approach to solving difficult problems, and are ones I'd like to see again in future books.  This is a fun-filled novel that delights and entertains on many different levels, and is structured at such an incredible pace that the reader may need a wooden stake driven through their own heart in order to slow down the adrenaline rush.  Buy this book and then prepare yourself for THE DESTRUCTOR, which is due out in March.  I'm hoping this will turn out to be a long and prosperous series Jon F. Merz!character of Lawson, the author has envisioned a unique type of vampire who plays by his own rules when carrying out assignments.  He has a strong code of honor, reminiscent of the ancient Japanese samurai, and can't be bought or frightened by anyone, no matter how powerful or influential they might be.  One the things that hooked me is Lawson's background in the martial arts.  It's clear that the author is a actual martial artist himself and uses his knowledge to enhanced Lawson's almost mythical persona.  I enjoyed the scenes in which our Fixer has to fight in hand-to-hand combat, sometimes using a Japanese bokken (wooden sword) to kill his fellow vampires.  There's also the journey through the Himalayan Mountains and Lawson's encounter with an ancient Buddhist sect of warrior monks that gives him a deeper understanding of the Bushido code.  I loved the combination of religious mysticism and traditional martial arts in this novel.  It not only entertains, but also causes the reader to think about other cultures and how life is lived within them.  Finally, not only is the storyline in THE INVOKER fast and furious, and the main character a different, darker shadow of the standard hero, but the secondary characters of Wirek and Arthur rock, too, with their own special blend of toughness and spiritual insight.  These are characters that bring a heart-felt balance to Lawson's no-nonsense approach to solving difficult problems, and are ones I'd like to see again in future books.  This is a fun-filled novel that delights and entertains on many different levels, and is structured at such an incredible pace that the reader may need a wooden stake driven through their own heart in order to slow down the adrenaline rush.  Buy this book and then prepare yourself for THE DESTRUCTOR, which is due out in March.  I'm hoping this will turn out to be a long and prosperous series Jon F. Merz!	2003-01-28
US	49187160	R3MQURU4QB3QPY	0765341573	74014692	The Fury and the Terror	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A FANTASTIC SEQUEL TO A CLASSIC BESTSELLER!!!	It's taken John Farris over twenty-five years to finally write a sequel to his most famous novel, THE FURY, and I'm happy to say that it was well worth the wait.  THE FURY AND THE TERROR takes up twenty years later where its predecessor left off.  Gillian Bellaver has been dead for over a year, having been murdered by a team of assassins in front of her husband, Tom Sherard.  Robin Sandza has been in a coma-like state for two decades-his body housed in the ultra-secret MORG facility in Montana-while his twin body (or doppelganger), using the name of Victor Wilding, now runs MORG with the help of Rona Harvester, who's married to the President of the United States.  The story starts out with a commando raid on a Hawaii compound that's led by the First Lady.  The mission of the raid is to capture of Kelanie Cheng, whose psychic abilities are so strong that she's considered to be what's known as an avatar.  After the raid is successfully completed, Rona Harvester decides to remain in Hawaii for an extra day, while Kelanie is heavily drugged and then flown to the MORG facility, guarded by the team of commandoes.  The plane, however, never makes it to Montana.  Kelanie uses her power to divert the aircraft to northern California where it crashes into a stadium during a college graduation ceremony.  Eden Waring is in the process of giving the valedictory address at the ceremony when the tragedy occurs, and it's only because of her own psychic ability that the several thousand people in the stands aren't killed when the airplane crashes and then explores.  This immediately draws national attention to Eden and what she did.  It also draws the attention of MORG and Rona Harvester.  It isn't long before Eden's hidden identity is discovered.  She's the daughter of Gillian Bellaver and Peter Sandza (Robin's father), and her psychic powers are stronger than anyone can imagine.  Everybody now wants her either dead or alive, and will do whatever it takes to accomplish this vital task.  Eden's grandmother (Katherine Bellaver) sends Tom Sherard to save her-a man who's known danger in a thousand different ways and is prepared to put his own life on the line to save the daughter of his late wife.  Even with the help of many close and powerful friends, Tom may not be able to do the impossible because there's more at stake here than just the life of one young girl-the entire country may be on the brink of a nuclear disaster.  Understand that this brief description of the storyline is only the tip of the iceberg for THE FURY AND THE TERROR.  John Farris has managed to intertwine a dozen different subplots into the novel that almost boggles the reader's mind.  At the crux of the story, however, is Rona Harvester's conspiracy to murder her invalided husband with the help of her lover, Victory Wilding, and to take over the Presidency.  Once Kelanie Cheng is killed in the plane crash, however, Rona has to turn to Eden Waring, hoping that she might be able to help heal Robin Sandza's brain injury with her psychic powers so that his doppelganger (Victor) won't die.  Together, both Rona and Victor hope to rule the most powerful country in the world.  Along with this is the large number of colorful characters that clearly stand out.  There's Phil Haman, a transvestite assassin with a split personality whose job is to kill Eden before MORG can gets its hands on her.  Then, there's Tom Sherard, an African hunter with a British accent, who loved Eden's real mother more than life itself and is willing to take on the entire American government to save his stepdaughter.  There's also a small California town that's filled with witches and warlocks who use their shape-changing abilities when attacked by outsiders.  And let's not forget Rona Harvester, a woman who clearly likes to use sex, blackmail and murder to control the men and women in her life, and who isn't afraid to blow up an entire city in order to achieve her goals for total control.  These are characters that explode outward in all of their strengths and weaknesses, coming alive in a way that only John Farris can conceive.  Another factor that adds to the extreme quality of THE FURY AND THE TERROR is the fact that the author never lets up from the first page to the last.  Something is constantly happening, and there's never a dull moment.  Mr. Farris has skillfully incorporated fantasy with reality to create a believable scenario that makes you wonder just how much of this is actually true.  Though it helps, it's not necessary that you read THE FURY in order to enjoy this novel.  Each book stands alone.  For those of you who've never read anything by John Farris, fasten your seatbelts and be prepared for the ride of a lifetime!s that explode outward in all of their strengths and weaknesses, coming alive in a way that only John Farris can conceive.  Another factor that adds to the extreme quality of THE FURY AND THE TERROR is the fact that the author never lets up from the first page to the last.  Something is constantly happening, and there's never a dull moment.  Mr. Farris has skillfully incorporated fantasy with reality to create a believable scenario that makes you wonder just how much of this is actually true.  Though it helps, it's not necessary that you read THE FURY in order to enjoy this novel.  Each book stands alone.  For those of you who've never read anything by John Farris, fasten your seatbelts and be prepared for the ride of a lifetime!	2003-01-27
US	49187160	R1VIARCMF0MGA	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	A NOVEL ABOUT WHAT IT TAKES TO BE A HERO IN THE TRUEST SENSE	BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON begins with Dylan O'Connor and his younger, autistic brother, Shepard, driving across Arizona to an arts festival in New Mexico.  After they stop at a motel for the night, Dylan leaves his brother in the room for a while and walks across the street to a restaurant to get some food.  Dylan then makes his way back to the motel room and is clubbed from behind on the walkway as he attempts to open the door.  When he wakes up, Dylan finds himself tied to a chair and about to be injected with an unknown serum by a mysterious, crazy-acting doctor named Lincoln Procter.  The serum is Procter's own creation.  It will cause Dylan's mind to either deteriorate or to expand to unbelievable magnificence.  Once Dylan is injected, the good doctor warns him to take his brother and to run away as quickly as possible because there are hunters now closing in on them at that very moment.  Their intent is to kill Lincoln Procter and anyone he has injected with the serum.  After the doctor disappears, Dylan frees himself from the chair and hurriedly gets ready for the hostile journey that will change him and his brother forever.  As he and Shep are preparing to leave the motel, they encounter Jillian Jackson-a female comedian who's also been injected with the serum-coming out of another room.  The three of them have only seconds to readjust to this new situation as black Suburbans swiftly pull into the motel's parking lot, each one filled with deadly killers who are on the lookout for Dr. Procter.  The trio barely manages to escape with their lives, but the hardest and most dangerous part is still ahead.  Each of them will see miraculous changes within their own bodies and minds over the next twenty-four hours.  They will develop the powers to see into the future and to transport themselves long distances in the blink of an eye.  It may not be enough, however, to keep them alive as their pursuers close in for the kill.  As with the author's previous two books (FROM THE CORNER OF HIS EYE & ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN), this novel also uses cutting-edge advances in science and technology and theories on time travel and teleportation as a focus point for the storyline.  The average human being uses less than five percent of his brain capacity.  If a method could be found to increase one's brain capability to forty or fifty percent, or even more, what wonders could we expect to see?  What would mankind be able to accomplish?  Mr. Koontz is able to see and understand where modern science and research are headed at this very second and simply takes it to next level, which may be within the realm of possibility ten or twenty years down the road.  He doesn't see the future of humanity with a negative gleam in his eye, but rather with a wondrous, child-like anticipation, understanding the goodness that mankind is capable of perpetuating, if given the opportunity.  In BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON, the characters of Dylan and Shep O'Connor and Jilly Jackson are skillfully created to portray the \\"everyman\\" that's in most of us.  They don't want what's thrust upon them.  Yet, once it's realized that they can never return to the normalcy of their previous lives, none of them hesitates to move forward into the great unknown and to use their new powers to help those in need and in trouble, putting themselves at risk time and time again to do what they intrinsically know to be the right thing.  This is therefore a passionate novel about what it takes to face unimaginable fear, knowing that you could die at any second, and to become a hero in the grandest sense of the term.  If you want to spend several hours reading a book that's not only fun and entertaining, but also purer magic within the scope of possibilities that it sets forth, then BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON is definitely the one to get.  This is certainly a book that will delight you in many unexpected and thought-provoking ways because Dean Koontz has his fingers on the pulse of humanity'sheart and soul, and there's no one better to pass along the message than him.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!heart and soul, and there's no one better to pass along the message than him.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2003-01-10
US	49187160	R1N0MCO8PBTRTA	0892967293	578975146	A Fine Dark Line	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	ANOTHER WINNER FOR THIS GREAT AMERICAN WRITER!!!	In Joe R. Lansdale's newest novel, A FINE DARK LINE, the reader is carried back to the summer of 1958 when thirteen-year-old Stanley Mitchell, Jr. and his family move to Dewmont, Texas to take over the ownership of the town's only drive-in movie theater.  This is the summer that Stanley will lose his childhood innocence and learn that there's no Santa Claus, what sex is really about, the ugly truth concerning racism, and the painful reality about death, murder and the human monsters that hide behind the masks of one's next-door neighbors.  It's also the summer that young Stanley begins to learn about the power of friendship, family, love, and the unrelenting courage that's needed in the face of horror.  Stanley's journey into adulthood begins when he finds a half-buried metal box filled with old love letters near a burnt-down house in the woods behind the drive-in theater where he and his family now live.  The letters belonged to a young girl who was gruesomely murdered almost two decades before.  The fact that the crime was never solved triggers Stanley's curiosity.  With the help of his older sister, Caldonia, and his new friends Richard Chapman and old Buster Lighthorse Smith, he begins to slowly, but persistently, dig into the past, not knowing that what he discovers will change his life forever.  Brilliantly written by one of America's top authors, A FINE DARK LINE carries us back to when comic books were a nickel, Tarzan movies played on TV in the mornings, and a young boy could believe that the fictional John Carter of Mars actually existed.  This was a time when anything seemed possible, and small-town life during the hot, sweltering summer months was slow and relaxed, and the local teenagers flocked to the drive-in theater at night to see the newest movies and to make out in their cars.  Mr. Lansdale is able to capture the pure ambience of these forgotten memories with a simplicity of words that draws the reader into the story as if he/she was walking the streets of Dewmont with Stanley and his dog, Nub.  Each of the main and supporting characters are fully developed individuals that you either love or hate, and one can't help finding themselves laughing out loud as Stanley learns about the \\"birds and the bees\\" from Caldonia and Buster, or feeling the soul-wrenching emptiness as he experiences first hand from the Mitchell's housekeeper, Rosy Mae, how terrible men can be toward the women they love.  This is not only a journey for Stanley, but one for the reader as well.  You'll come away with a little more knowledge of what it means to be a human being in all of its mixed-up aspects.  Like Mr. Lansdale's previous award-winning novel, THE BOTTOMS, this book is what I would call a \\"life experience,\\" and it's one I would highly recommend to any person wishing more than a casual read.  Entertaining, thought provoking, and nostalgic, A FINE DARK LINE is a true masterpiece from one of America's most gifted writers.treets of Dewmont with Stanley and his dog, Nub.  Each of the main and supporting characters are fully developed individuals that you either love or hate, and one can't help finding themselves laughing out loud as Stanley learns about the \\"birds and the bees\\" from Caldonia and Buster, or feeling the soul-wrenching emptiness as he experiences first hand from the Mitchell's housekeeper, Rosy Mae, how terrible men can be toward the women they love.  This is not only a journey for Stanley, but one for the reader as well.  You'll come away with a little more knowledge of what it means to be a human being in all of its mixed-up aspects.  Like Mr. Lansdale's previous award-winning novel, THE BOTTOMS, this book is what I would call a \\"life experience,\\" and it's one I would highly recommend to any person wishing more than a casual read.  Entertaining, thought provoking, and nostalgic, A FINE DARK LINE is a true masterpiece from one of America's most gifted writers.	2003-01-07
US	49187160	R1KWN1QOAL07YA	0786014776	790921730	Bad Things	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	A JOURNEY INTO THE DARKSIDE OF BRITISH FOLKLORE!!!	In BAD THINGS by Tamara Thorne, the author combines the elements of nature folklore, Halloween, dysfunctional families, and a good bit of perverted sex to weave a dark supernatural thriller that centers on two brothers, Rick and Robin Piper (descendants of the Scottish Piper clan that has for centuries been able to see the mythical and mischievous \\"greenjacks\\" of British folklore).  The story starts out during the early seventies in the Southern California community of Santo Verde where the Pipers have lived for several generations.  Though Ricky's just a boy, he's the only one in the family who now has the sight and is able to see the nature spirits known as greenjacks.  Not even his deformed, legless twin brother, Robin, is able to see these small, ethereal beings.  Each year on All Hallows Eve, the small jacks join together to create the giant, Big Jack, out of broken limps and leaves.  This hideous creature attempts to help them take over the body of any Piper child caught defenseless, or near death.  Because of a Halloween prank gone terribly wrong, Robin is almost killed by Big Jack as he saves Ricky's life.  Instead of dying, however, Robin's body becomes inhabited by one of the greenjacks, and he turns into an evil, manipulative creature whose one desire is to kill his brother.  Jump to the present as Rick-who's now a widower with two children-decides to finally leave Las Vegas and return to his old home in California, hoping to offer his kids a better living environment.  Rick's parents (supposedly murdered by a burglar) and his brother, Robin, have long been dead.  With the help of Carmen and Hector (the housekeeper and gardener for the estate), he will once again face the nightmares of his childhood and have to overcome the fears that have haunted his life for so long.  Rick will eventually have to put everything on the line in a final confrontation with Big Jack and with a murderous relative who won't be satisfied until he's finally dead.  The power of BAD THINGS lies in the author's ability to make the reader care for Ricky Piper as a young boy and the insurmountable obstacles that he has to face when Robin's body is taken over by a greenjack.  Rick's fun-loving brother turns into the purest form of evil, delighting in the misery, misfortune, and death of others.  When the children's parents are mysteriously murdered and Aunt Jade moves in with her mean, hard-drinking husband and her sleazy teenage daughter, things grow progressively worse for the young boy.  It takes little time for his brother to sexually seduce the older niece, as well as the aunt, impregnating both of them with his sense of evil.  To my surprise and pleasure, this is where the author delivers the goods with full force, allowing the darkness within each of us to come out in all of its wicked manifestations.  Tamara Thorne never holds back in her description of how evil and perverseness can choose to express itself.  The only problem I had with the book was with Rick's character and his inability to face the obvious.  I wanted him to have more backbone in order to deal with the situations as they arose.  Fortunately, the characters of Carmen and Hector, Rick's pre-opt transsexual friend, Dakota, and Dakota's sister, Audrey, helped to balance out the main character's ineptness at perceiving danger and how to deal with it.  I even found myself buying the greenjacks, though I had a hard time picturing \\"Big Jack\\" in my mind.  Still, some of the scenes at night with Big Jack and the little jacks were scary enough to give me goose bumps.  The author has a great way of carrying you right to the edge with anxiety whenever she puts children in danger. BAD THINGS is definitely a novel I would recommend to anyone seeking something to read at night when the blinds are closed, everyone's asleep, and strange noises are emanating from the other side of the house.  This is the kind of book that would add greatly to your unease.  In fact, I liked this novel so much, that I've already purchased three others (ETERNITY, THE FORGOTTEN & CANDLE BAY) by Tamara Thorne to read in the near future.uch, that I've already purchased three others (ETERNITY, THE FORGOTTEN & CANDLE BAY) by Tamara Thorne to read in the near future.	2002-12-29
US	49187160	R3TYU1EUMF8KZG	0312878680	536855702	The Haunted Air	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	THIS IS POSSIBLY THE BEST IN AN ALREADY GREAT SERIES!!!	THE HAUNTED AIR by F. Paul Wilson-author of THE KEEP, THE TOMB, ALL THE RAGE, and HOSTS-is the sixth \\"Repairman Jack\\" novel in this utterly fantastic series about one man's attempt to protect himself and the people he loves from an evil supernatural phenomenon known simply at the \\"Otherness.\\"  This novel is certainly a lot longer (415pp. of very small print) than the previous books in the series, and I would probably have to say that it's also the best, which is a mouthful, considering how well written most the other novels are.  This time around, the story centers on two brothers, Lyle and Charlie Kenton, whom Jack develops a close relationship with.  The brothers are two psychic scam artists who have the perfect setup with their supposedly haunted house in a suburb of Queens, giving mystical readings to the rich wives and widows who want answers about the their impending future.  Except for threats and gunshot warnings from some of the local psychic competitors, everything is going fairly good for the brothers until Jack and his girlfriend, Gia, show up one night with friends who want a reading from them.  A mild earthquake takes place as soon as Jack and Gia start to enter the house.  This cracks open the concrete floor in the basement, releasing the spirit of a murdered girl that now wants revenge against the people who killed her.  Jack, who's still recovering from the death of his sister (see HOSTS), suddenly finds himself caught up in the brothers' dilemma as he attempts to find out who's been threatening them and as another case he's working on begins to tie in with the death of the little girl.  While all of this is going on, Gia finds out that she's pregnant with Jack's baby and begins to worry that he may not want to give up his secret life in order to become an actual parent for the child.  What neither one of them realizes is that the \\"Otherness\\" is back and wants the unborn baby for its own obscene purposes.  As my mama used to say-when it rains, it pours!  In THE HAUNTED AIR, the author delves more deeply into the personality of Repairman Jack as the character is forced to make an important decision about his life and the lives of the people closest to him.  Jack's not even sure it's possible for him to become a citizen without facing heavy fines for tax evasion and jail time for breaking the law.  Gia also has to make a life-changing decision with regards to her feelings for Jack and what having his child may mean to her own goals and desires.  Mr. Wilson makes these two characters appear more human and their choices in life more complex.  Another thing that interested me was the discussions throughout the book on the nature of faith, religion, The Bible, God, and the essence of \\"good\\" and \\"evil.\\"  It helped me to clarify some of my own thoughts in relation to these subjects.  One thing to keep in mind about the \\"Repairman Jack\\" novels is that all of them take place during the mid-eighties within a fifteen-month time frame, though some of the technology is present day and references are made to the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Centers, and the murdered child was supposedly killed in the late eighties.  And let's not forget all of the references to current music.  This can get pretty confusing if you allow yourself to even think about it for a moment.  The best thing to do is simply enjoy the ride for what it is.  There's also a connection within this book to Mr. Wilson's first novel, THE KEEP (the stone blocks from Romania).  Finally, a really nice addition to this series is the introduction of the Kenton brothers.  These are two guys that kind of grow on you as the book moves along, and you find yourself hoping that the author will bring them back in a future novel, or at least one of them.  With prose that's razor sharp, a more intricate plot, and stronger character development, F. Paul Wilson has written what is possibly the best novel in an already great series!  I know his legions of fans will grow evenlarger after reading THE HAUNTED AIR.larger after reading THE HAUNTED AIR.	2002-12-14
US	49187160	R1O8YVVSRIQWAV	0843951109	986883623	Under the Overtree (Leisure Horror)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	THE NOVEL DIDN'T FULFILL ITS POTENTIAL!!!	UNDER THE OVERTREE by James A. Moore begins with an excerpt from P.J. Sanderson's unpublished autobiography and deals with how he and Alex Harris became the best of friends in high school during the late sixties in the community of Summitville, Colorado-a small town with a history of treating outsiders with distrust.  The two boys discover an old book of magical spells in Sanderson's attic and decide to see if any of the spells work by going out to the woods near Overtree Lake with their girlfriends and performing an actual ritual on Halloween night.  Though at first nothing appears to happen, the results of their endeavor will come back to haunt them and the town thirty-five years later when Mark Howell and his parents move to Summitville.  Cut to the present day.  As the new kid in town, fifteen-year-old Mark Howell is taunted, made fun of, and beat up by the bullies who lurk in the hallways of his high school.  The only friend Mark has is Tyler Wilson-a school nerd who has the kind of mouth that's always getting both of them into trouble.  One afternoon Mark is chased into the woods behind the school and beaten up by the four guys who hate him the most.  He cuts his face on a mysterious stone rock during the fight and his blood seems to activate what can only be called the Folks (elves, gremlins?).  They pick Mark as the Chosen One and quickly begin to change the young boy and to protect him against any harm, aiding his growth until the time comes when they'll use him for their own evil purpose.  When I first started to read UNDER THE OVERTREE, I found myself hooked in the first couple of pages, but then around page eighty-five or so, I pulled back in disbelief when the Folks are brought into the picture.  I simply couldn't accept them as being real, which is a dire necessity for the book to work.  Plus, when the Folks start killing Mark's enemies, especially in front of witnesses, no one seems to be the least bit shocked or surprised by it.  I did, however, manage to finish the novel.  I can say that the author has a special gift in being able to depict teenagers in all their wonderful and horrible attributes.  He captures the physical and emotional abuse that any outsider in a new school has to face with perfect clarity and understanding.  That reminded me of vintage Stephen King.  The coolest character in the novel is Jonathan Crowley-a demon hunter who arrives in Summitville to do battle with the Folks.  Though it's never made clear whether Crowley is human or not, he's smart, mean, capable of extreme violence, trained heavily in the martial arts, a master of the occult, and is willing to do whatever it takes to rid Summitville of its major problem.  He also has the best lines in the book.  Finally, I kept hoping the novel would get scary at some point but it never did.  That was disappointing because the potential was there.  Though I didn't enjoy the book as much as most other readers apparently have, I do think that James A. Moore has talent, and I wouldn't say no to reading something else by him.  I have a feeling this author is going to get progressively better with each future novel.ge to finish the novel.  I can say that the author has a special gift in being able to depict teenagers in all their wonderful and horrible attributes.  He captures the physical and emotional abuse that any outsider in a new school has to face with perfect clarity and understanding.  That reminded me of vintage Stephen King.  The coolest character in the novel is Jonathan Crowley-a demon hunter who arrives in Summitville to do battle with the Folks.  Though it's never made clear whether Crowley is human or not, he's smart, mean, capable of extreme violence, trained heavily in the martial arts, a master of the occult, and is willing to do whatever it takes to rid Summitville of its major problem.  He also has the best lines in the book.  Finally, I kept hoping the novel would get scary at some point but it never did.  That was disappointing because the potential was there.  Though I didn't enjoy the book as much as most other readers apparently have, I do think that James A. Moore has talent, and I wouldn't say no to reading something else by him.  I have a feeling this author is going to get progressively better with each future novel.	2002-12-02
US	49187160	R9UJWZ35O796Y	1587670542	952019148	Spider Moon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	JOHN SHIRLEY IS AN AUTHOR TO KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR!!!	SPIDER MOON by John Shirley is the tragic tale of Slim Purdoux, an ex-con who served a year-and-a-half in a Texas state penitentiary and who's now working as a book editor for a publishing firm in San Francisco.  Slim's world begins to fall apart one morning when he's informed by his new boss that he can either accept a transfer to New York City-away from his ex-wife and son-or lose his job because of cutbacks within the company.  Then, within the next hour, Slim discovers to his dismay that the child he loves so much has just died from drug poisoning.  He naturally blames himself for the unexpected tragedy, but most of all he blames the people who sold his son, Frankie, the bad drugs.  When Slim returns to work from the hospital to hand in his resignation, he's shocked to discover that another employee has gone on a wild shooting spree, killing several co-workers.  One unfortunate event swiftly leads to another and the police suddenly think that it was our Texas cowboy doing the actual killing in the office building.  Barely escaping with his life, Slim decides that he now has nothing to lose by going after the drug dealers who killed his boy, and he's prepared to do whatever it takes to collect some sweet revenge.  Before the week is over San Francisco is going to find itself in the middle of a bloodbath that will make the shootout at the OK corral look like a beach picnic.  SPIDER MOON is one of those pleasant little surprises that every reader hopes for when discovering a new author.  Though short in length (170pp), it's a whirlwind of a novel that delivers with in-your-face intensity.  I could feel the anger and frustration boiling beneath the surface as Slim Purdoux tries to keep himself from going ballistic at the drop of a hat.  He has to force himself to pull it together just long enough so that his mission of revenge can be accomplished with deadly accuracy.  To the author's credit, he knows how to keep the tension building within the story and the pace moving quickly toward its exploding climax.  I couldn't help but find myself getting caught up in Slim's emotional anguish, and this led to me care about him.  Also, I was amazed at the degree of sympathy that evolves for the street people that Slim gets involved with while hunting down the individuals who were responsible for Frankie's death.  The character of Wendell clearly stands out.  Even with Wendell's violent temper, crudeness, and street savvy, it doesn't take long for the reader to start liking him.  All in all, SPIDER MOON proved to be one of those wonderful experiences that catch you off guard and causes you to anxiously search for other books by the same author.ving quickly toward its exploding climax.  I couldn't help but find myself getting caught up in Slim's emotional anguish, and this led to me care about him.  Also, I was amazed at the degree of sympathy that evolves for the street people that Slim gets involved with while hunting down the individuals who were responsible for Frankie's death.  The character of Wendell clearly stands out.  Even with Wendell's violent temper, crudeness, and street savvy, it doesn't take long for the reader to start liking him.  All in all, SPIDER MOON proved to be one of those wonderful experiences that catch you off guard and causes you to anxiously search for other books by the same author.	2002-12-02
US	49187160	RA7VUJJVPB9VG	1887368566	250630428	Right to Life: And 2 Stories	Books	4	66	69	N	N	A Dark Journey Into Sexual Depravity!!!	Unlike Jack Ketchum's earlier novel, LADIES NIGHT, his newest one, RIGHT TO LIFE, definitely has the shoe on the other foot as a pregnant woman becomes the victim of a deranged married couple that kidnap her right off the street and hold her captive for several months while she's forced to endure their bizarre S&M games.<br /><br />The 139-page novella starts off with Sara Foster on her way to an abortion clinic to do away with the unwanted child she's now carrying.  Before Sara can even enter the clinic, she's grabbed and sedated by Stephen and Katherine Teach-a couple who's unable to have children.  Sara is taken to their home where she's held as a prisoner.  The couple intend to hold Sara until the baby is born and then kill her.<br /><br />Stephen, however, has other plans for his beautiful captive as well.  He's going to get the most out Sara's luscious body by using her to fulfill his own perverted desires.  Forcing her to submit in whatever sexual manner he chooses, she's mentally and physically tortured on a daily basis.  Even Stephen's wife decides to get in on the action by making the prisoner her sex slave when the hubby begins to lose interest after a few months have past.<br /><br />Sara instinctively knows that she has to find a way out before it's too late, but time is her worse enemy as she grows bigger and more powerless with her pregnancy.  She also understands that if she does manage to escape, the couple may very well come after her.  This leaves her with just one option...to kill them first!<br /><br />RIGHT TO LIFE will shock you to the core as it depicts one's person's attempt to survive unimaginable torture and humiliation in order to keep from being killed.  Mr. Ketchum never pulls his punches with the violence and craziness.  His prose is fast moving and creates stark images that are mind numbing in their intensity.  The reader is quickly carried into this dark world of depravity and made to realize that anyone can be a potential victim when least expected.  The characters are well drawn, but it's the Techs that really steal the show.  This is one psychotic couple you wouldn't want to have as next-door neighbors!<br /><br />All in all, RIGHT TO LIFE delivers in full form.  Strong in sexual content, it's not for the faint-hearted or those with a queasy stomach.  One final note, this edition also contains two extra short stories.  The first is \\"Brave Girl\\" and it deals with a four-year-old child whose mother has fallen in the bathtub and is now unconscious.  The second short story is \\"Returns\\" which is slightly different from the author's normal subject matter.  It centers on the spirit of a recently deceased man who returns home to his hateful wife, hoping to stop her from killing his loving cat.  These two short stories are a nice bonus for the fans of Jack Ketchum.n least expected.  The characters are well drawn, but it's the Techs that really steal the show.  This is one psychotic couple you wouldn't want to have as next-door neighbors!<br /><br />All in all, RIGHT TO LIFE delivers in full form.  Strong in sexual content, it's not for the faint-hearted or those with a queasy stomach.  One final note, this edition also contains two extra short stories.  The first is \\"Brave Girl\\" and it deals with a four-year-old child whose mother has fallen in the bathtub and is now unconscious.  The second short story is \\"Returns\\" which is slightly different from the author's normal subject matter.  It centers on the spirit of a recently deceased man who returns home to his hateful wife, hoping to stop her from killing his loving cat.  These two short stories are a nice bonus for the fans of Jack Ketchum.	2002-11-26
US	49187160	RYL3XJA75E1CF	0843949570	10928136	An Execution of Honor	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A NON-STOP ACTION ADVENTURE INTO SPECIAL OPS!!!	Every so often I get in the mood for reading an action-packed thriller that deals with our country's elite military forces: U.S. Army Special Forces, Marine Recon, the Navy SEALS, and Delta Force.  To impress me, the author of the novel has to know what he's talking about-preferably from personal experience-and be able to tell a good story with strong, heroic characters facing insurmountable odds.  Any writer who can do this will more than lightly win me over as a loyal, die-hard fan. One such author is Thomas L. Muldoon.  His debut novel, AN EXECUTION OF HONOR, hooked me in the first eighteen pages and made good on its promise to deliver a high-powered adventure, involving the elite Marine Force Reconnaissance unit.  The novel starts out in 1986 with President Luis Cardona, his three sons, and a small part of his army escaping from the country of San Tomas in Central American as the Communist rebels take over the capital.<br />Helping Cardona to get out of the country are William Means of the CIA and perhaps the most dangerous unit of fighting warriors in the world, a nine-member team of Force Recon Marines headed by Captain Dan Paige.  When Paige and Gunnery Sergeant Melvin Snipes refuse to allow Cardona to bring his large cache of cocaine with him, the exiled President has them viciously tortured and killed.  The rest of the Recon unit is totally unaware of what has happened until Cardona is well on his way to America, where he's to be granted asylum by the President of the United States.  When the members of the Recon unit voice their complaints to the higher-ups and demand justice for their dead comrades, they're warned to back down, to keep their mouths shut, and to forget about it.  That's the worse mistake the U.S. military and government can make because these men never forget an injustice and will spend the rest of their lives getting even.  The remaining seven members of the Force Recon team soon quit the Marine Corps and set about making plans to take out Cardona and his family.  When they do, each member of the unit suddenly finds himself to be a hunted fugitive, with \\"hit\\" teams from the United States, Russia, and Cuba after them.  It doesn't take long for this to become an all out war because the Force Recon Marines aren't going down without a bitter fight.  If you want them dead, you'd better have a lot of body bags for your own men!  AN EXECUTION OF HONOR is filled with action from beginning to end, while going into great amount of detail with regards to what it takes to be a Force Recon Marine and how well they're trained in the \\"seek-destroy-retreat\\" process.  Mr. Muldoon describes the latest in fighting technology and small-arms with clear expertise, never dulling the reader's sensibilities with too many facts, but rather enhancing the story and making it utterly believable.  The Recon Marines are strong characters that come alive with their intelligence, their desire for justice, and the loyalty they have for the members of their own unit, as well as for the United States.  Their honor and loyalty are never questioned.  The reader comes away loudly cheering these guys on, praying that they will survive, but knowing that the odds are against them and that most of these men will die before the ending of the novel is reached.  This is definitely a book that deserves to be read by every member of the U.S. military, especially the Marine Corps.  I remember when I was in college and my Uncle Mac came back from Vietnam.  He was a Force Recon Marine.  When I tried to ask him about what he and his unit did in Nam and what it was like, he said in a soft, quiet voice that if he answered my silly questions, he'd have to kill me.  At first I thought he was joking, then I saw the look in his eyes and I immediately shut my mouth and never asked him another question!Cardona and his family.  When they do, each member of the unit suddenly finds himself to be a hunted fugitive, with \\"hit\\" teams from the United States, Russia, and Cuba after them.  It doesn't take long for this to become an all out war because the Force Recon Marines aren't going down without a bitter fight.  If you want them dead, you'd better have a lot of body bags for your own men!  AN EXECUTION OF HONOR is filled with action from beginning to end, while going into great amount of detail with regards to what it takes to be a Force Recon Marine and how well they're trained in the \\"seek-destroy-retreat\\" process.  Mr. Muldoon describes the latest in fighting technology and small-arms with clear expertise, never dulling the reader's sensibilities with too many facts, but rather enhancing the story and making it utterly believable.  The Recon Marines are strong characters that come alive with their intelligence, their desire for justice, and the loyalty they have for the members of their own unit, as well as for the United States.  Their honor and loyalty are never questioned.  The reader comes away loudly cheering these guys on, praying that they will survive, but knowing that the odds are against them and that most of these men will die before the ending of the novel is reached.  This is definitely a book that deserves to be read by every member of the U.S. military, especially the Marine Corps.  I remember when I was in college and my Uncle Mac came back from Vietnam.  He was a Force Recon Marine.  When I tried to ask him about what he and his unit did in Nam and what it was like, he said in a soft, quiet voice that if he answered my silly questions, he'd have to kill me.  At first I thought he was joking, then I saw the look in his eyes and I immediately shut my mouth and never asked him another question!	2002-11-25
US	49187160	R240NOWUZ7W8KV	1892389193	188489315	Face	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NOT AS SCARY OR SUSPENSFUL AS IT COULD'VE BEEN!!!	FACE is the first novel that I've read by Tim Lebbon, and I have to admit to being somewhat disappointed.  This is the story of the Powell family, and it starts off with them (Dan, Megan and their teenage daughter, Nikki) driving home from vacation during a snowstorm.  Within a few miles of their destination, they see a hitchhiker standing out alongside of the highway and decide to be good Samaritans by offering him a lift.  In less than five minutes, the dark, handsome man, who calls himself Brand, manages to anger and scare both Dan and Megan by asking for a moment of their time and by making lewd suggestions to their daughter.  They immediately stop the SUV and tell Brand to get out, not caring if he lives or dies, praying that they'll never see him again.  No such luck!  Brand will now haunt their minds (Nikki's thoughts are more sexual in nature) and begin to slowly chisel away at the family structure by attacking them at their weakest points.  For Dan, it has to do with the guilt he feels over the attack of his wife, Megan, several years before in the city, and he being unable to prevent it.  Megan, on the other hand, has turned to God with a religious fever, believing that He will protect her against any harm.  Brand intends on demonstrating just how weak and vulnerable they actually are.  As far as Nikki goes, he plans to fulfill her secret sexual desires, though she may find it to be more of a nightmare than a hot fantasy.  Before the end of the novel is reached, Brand will have terrorized the family by killing off their few friends, pushing them to the brink of madness, and by making them wish they'd given him a brief moment of their time.  FACE started off as an intriguing premise, but by the end of the third chapter I realized that I didn't like the Powell family, nor did I care about the things being done to them.  In fact, I didn't like any of the characters in the book, except for maybe Brand.  I thought Dan, Megan and Nikki did some really stupid things, almost as if they were brain dead.  One example that stands out is when Dan beats our villain with a pool cue at the local Pub because he hears Brand's voice in his mind, making sexual comments about Nikki.  The whole incident rang untrue for me.  Another is when Dan goes into the woods surrounding their home at night with a baseball bat to hunt for the mysterious Brand.  He doesn't even know if the guy is out there watching the house, or whether he can actually take this evil person in fair fight.  And speaking of Brand, the reader is never sure if he's a human monster or a demonic being of some kind.  Because of this, I found the novel's grand finale to be confusing with more questions being presented than answers.  I hate it when that happens.  FACE isn't the worse novel I've ever read, but it's also far from the best.  If you want to read it, my suggestion is to wait for the paperback to come out.upid things, almost as if they were brain dead.  One example that stands out is when Dan beats our villain with a pool cue at the local Pub because he hears Brand's voice in his mind, making sexual comments about Nikki.  The whole incident rang untrue for me.  Another is when Dan goes into the woods surrounding their home at night with a baseball bat to hunt for the mysterious Brand.  He doesn't even know if the guy is out there watching the house, or whether he can actually take this evil person in fair fight.  And speaking of Brand, the reader is never sure if he's a human monster or a demonic being of some kind.  Because of this, I found the novel's grand finale to be confusing with more questions being presented than answers.  I hate it when that happens.  FACE isn't the worse novel I've ever read, but it's also far from the best.  If you want to read it, my suggestion is to wait for the paperback to come out.	2002-11-04
US	49187160	R2HY8VSQ16IVNI	1562012762	728214996	Raw Silk	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A NOVEL THAT'S SURE TO GET THE BLOOD STIRRING!!!	Though I've been a writer of erotica for well over twenty years, I actually read very little of the stuff, preferring the pleasure of novels in the horror/ mystery/suspense genres.  Occasionally, however, a beautifully written piece of erotica does come along that grabs my attention and makes me realize how far I still have to go in becoming a good writer.  RAW SILK by Lisabet Sarai is just such a novel.  This is the story of lovely software engineer, Katherine O'Neil, who leaves her home and lover in Boston to take a job with DigiThai Ltd in Bangkok, Thailand.  During Kate's first week of work there, she unexpectedly becomes sexually involved with one of the owners of the company, Somtow Rajchitraprasong, and with one of the company's clients, Gregory Marshall.  Somtow is a married Thai prince who seems to be overly addicted to the delicious pleasures of the flesh and is more than willing to help Kate explore her own sexuality.  Marshall, on the other hand, is the owner of a local sex club called the Grotto and has a raw animal magnetism that makes him alluring.  Lucky Kate is instantly drawn to both men with a force that's almost overwhelming in the nature of its power.  When Marshall introduces her to the world of S&M with the intention of making her a sexual slave, she finds herself giving in to hidden emotions that threaten to engulf her with their smoldering intensity.  In time she will have to make a choice between the two gentlemen, not to mention her old lover, David, who suddenly arrives in Bangkok to win her back.  As if Kate didn't have enough to worry about, there's also a conspiracy brewing within the upper echelons of DigiThai-a conspiracy that may bring the company down to its knees with her as the scapegoat. There's no doubt in my mind that RAW SILK is one of the hottest novels I've read in the past several years.  Though it was written by a woman for a predominantly female audience, I found myself aroused in ways that surprised even me.  There's definitely something for everyone in this novel: straight sex, bi-sex, male domination, female domination, threesomes, and the list goes on and on.  But more than that, this book is exquisitely written.  Ms. Sarai is a poet who knows the magic of words and how to make them come alive for the reader.  She's able to capture the sheer beauty of Bangkok as well as its crowded streets, strange scents, constant noise, and the open friendliness and hospitality of its people toward outsiders.  I felt at home there and experienced strong memories returning of when I lived in Bangkok during the late sixties.  I also found all of the main characters in the book to be fully developed and rather intriguing, and even the information about computer software programming managed to capture my attention.  I have to admit that it was a no-brainer as to whom Kate would pick to live her life with at the end.  I can say that RAW SILK, like authentic Thai food, is a hot and spicy dish best suited for those readers in need of a little excitement in their otherwise dull and restless lives.  It certainly spiced up my life, and I now intend to keep an eye out for more novels by Lisabet Sarai!finitely something for everyone in this novel: straight sex, bi-sex, male domination, female domination, threesomes, and the list goes on and on.  But more than that, this book is exquisitely written.  Ms. Sarai is a poet who knows the magic of words and how to make them come alive for the reader.  She's able to capture the sheer beauty of Bangkok as well as its crowded streets, strange scents, constant noise, and the open friendliness and hospitality of its people toward outsiders.  I felt at home there and experienced strong memories returning of when I lived in Bangkok during the late sixties.  I also found all of the main characters in the book to be fully developed and rather intriguing, and even the information about computer software programming managed to capture my attention.  I have to admit that it was a no-brainer as to whom Kate would pick to live her life with at the end.  I can say that RAW SILK, like authentic Thai food, is a hot and spicy dish best suited for those readers in need of a little excitement in their otherwise dull and restless lives.  It certainly spiced up my life, and I now intend to keep an eye out for more novels by Lisabet Sarai!	2002-10-30
US	49187160	R2WNMLDPZ5VV33	0684870630	257172598	Kiss It Goodbye: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	THIS COULD'VE BEEN A LOT BETTER!!!	Though I thoroughly enjoyed John Wessel's previous two novels in the \\"P.I. Harding\\" series (THIS FAR, NO FURTHER & PRETTY BALLERINA), his newest book, KISS IT GOODBYE left me somewhat confused at the end.  In fact, I'm still scratching my head in puzzlement, trying to make some sense of who the bad guy actually was and the book's finale.  KISS IT GOODBYE brings back ex-con/ex-PI Harding and his tough-as-nails girlfriend, Alison, as they try to help Detective Terry Crowley of the Chicago Police Department solve the murder of Tracy Lawrence, one of Alison's old college roommates.  While this is going on, Harding and Alison are attempting to keep Beth Reinhardt and Charles Muller (two more friends from Alison's college days) from splitting up and continuing on with their wedding plans.  Add to this the possibility that Dr. Henry Dahlgreen, who's friends with everyone, may have his eyes on Beth, and Logan Pollard, who knows the girls from their college days, may just have his eyes on Alison.  Plus, there's Henry Dahlgreen's wife, Moira, who has slept with most of the men involved, not to mention Tracy and Alison.  And, let's not forget Crystal Royce, who's been just as bad as Moira with the same gentlemen and happens to have a psychopathic brother who just got out of prison and has been hired by one of the above to do some killing on the side.  Last, but not least, is the murdered victim, Tracy Lawrence.  Not only did Tracy sleep with everyone, she also looked a lot like Alison, which means that Harding's girlfriend could very well be the next intended victim.  This isn't even the tip of the iceberg.  Harding, like the reader, has to make sense of this complex plot, along with all of the multiple sub-plots that seem to intertwine with each other.  It's a task that even the best PIs in the world of fiction would find daunting.  KISS IT GOODBYE isn't a bad novel-it's simply a little too confusing at times with one too many plot twists for its own good.  I had a difficult time keeping track of all the characters and how they were involved with each other, plus I ended up with more questions than answers when the book reached its final few pages.  What did make the novel fun for me were Harding and Alison.  They remind me a lot of the \\"Kenzie/Gennaro\\" characters in the series by Dennis Lehane.  I enjoy their toughness, the bantering between each other, and the fact they have everyday problems just like the rest of us, especially Harding with his drinking and his inability to commit.  These two together are nearly impossible to put down.  Though KISS IT GOODBYE isn't as good as John Wessel's first two books, I hope the author will continue on with the series.  He has some great characters here that definitely deserve a better story line.  With time and a few more novels under his belt, Mr. Wessel could eventually be giving Dennis Lehane a run for his money.time keeping track of all the characters and how they were involved with each other, plus I ended up with more questions than answers when the book reached its final few pages.  What did make the novel fun for me were Harding and Alison.  They remind me a lot of the \\"Kenzie/Gennaro\\" characters in the series by Dennis Lehane.  I enjoy their toughness, the bantering between each other, and the fact they have everyday problems just like the rest of us, especially Harding with his drinking and his inability to commit.  These two together are nearly impossible to put down.  Though KISS IT GOODBYE isn't as good as John Wessel's first two books, I hope the author will continue on with the series.  He has some great characters here that definitely deserve a better story line.  With time and a few more novels under his belt, Mr. Wessel could eventually be giving Dennis Lehane a run for his money.	2002-10-29
US	49187160	R1ULACV6S6W6P2	1880216620	989514363	Speaks the Nightbird	Books	5	27	30	N	N	ROBERT MCCAMMON'S BEST NOVEL TO DATE!!!	It's been ten long years since Robert McCammon's last published book, but I'm happy to say that the author is finally back in full form with SPEAKS THE NIGHTBIRD, a novel that tackles the injustice of the witchcraft trials in Colonial America and how one young man dares to resist the mob mentality in order to save the woman he loves.  It begins in 1699 when Magistrate Isaac Woodward and his clerk, Matthew Corbett, are called to the small town of Fount Royal, which is on the coast of the Carolinas, to investigate the accusations of witchcraft and murder against the beautiful Rachel Howarth.  She has been accursed of killing her own husband, Daniel, and the Reverend Grove, as well as having sexual intercourse with the Devil, and causing the slow demise of the community.  The town's people are ready to lynch Rachel, but Magistrate Woodward uses the power of his position to insist that a fair trail takes place before anything is done to the woman.  As the witnesses are called forth during the days ahead, each one describes in explicit detail how they saw Mrs. Howarth in the throes of passion with her supposedly dark Master.  Woodward firmly believes that the witnesses are telling the truth, but young Matthew begins to suspect that there's someone else behind the scenes-someone who's pulling the strings of the local town's people, intent of destroying Fount Royal and making Rachel the scapegoat to divert attention from his evil plans.  When Rachel is sentenced to burn at the stake, Matthew's left with only a few days to prove her innocence and to find out the identity of the real murderer.  SPEAKS THE NIGHTBIRD clearly surpasses any of Robert McCammon's earlier novels in sheer scope and craftsmanship.  In fact, I consider it to be his crowning achievement in the field of fiction.  Unlike his previous work in the horror genre, this is a historical novel of grand proportions (729 pages of small print) that delves into the hardships of day-to-day living during Colonial times, along with the fears and superstitions that caused many people to behave in the most hideous manner toward their fellow brothers.  Mr. McCammon takes us into this desolate world, creating a murder mystery of such complexity that the reader is kept on his toes in a futile effort to guess who the killer really is.  One can't help but be delighted in the multitude of characters that come alive within this story, each with their own uniqueness, perversity, and hidden agendas.  It isn't long before you realize that almost everyone living in the town has something to hide and a strong reason for wanting Rachel to be convicted.  Of course, it's Matthew Corbett who's the real star of the story as he quickly makes the journey into manhood, trusting his own instincts for discovering the truth and refusing to give up when faced with the impossible, believing in the power of justice and love.  But, is he strong enough to take on the whole town and risk being burned at the stake with Rachel?  SPEAKS THE NIGHTBIRD is a true masterpiece of literary fiction that's filled with nail-biting suspense and hard-hitting intrigue.  This is the kind of novel that's sure to keep you up till the wee hours of the night, turning the pages in a hurried frenzy to find out what happens next.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!s, along with the fears and superstitions that caused many people to behave in the most hideous manner toward their fellow brothers.  Mr. McCammon takes us into this desolate world, creating a murder mystery of such complexity that the reader is kept on his toes in a futile effort to guess who the killer really is.  One can't help but be delighted in the multitude of characters that come alive within this story, each with their own uniqueness, perversity, and hidden agendas.  It isn't long before you realize that almost everyone living in the town has something to hide and a strong reason for wanting Rachel to be convicted.  Of course, it's Matthew Corbett who's the real star of the story as he quickly makes the journey into manhood, trusting his own instincts for discovering the truth and refusing to give up when faced with the impossible, believing in the power of justice and love.  But, is he strong enough to take on the whole town and risk being burned at the stake with Rachel?  SPEAKS THE NIGHTBIRD is a true masterpiece of literary fiction that's filled with nail-biting suspense and hard-hitting intrigue.  This is the kind of novel that's sure to keep you up till the wee hours of the night, turning the pages in a hurried frenzy to find out what happens next.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2002-10-24
US	49187160	R2L77FULB5HJV7	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	STEPHEN KING IS STILL THE MAESTRO OF HORROR!!!	As a long time reader of Stephen King's fiction (I started in 1977), this is the one author who I treasure more than life itself.  I personally think of him as the \\"Charles Dickens\\" of American Literature for the 20th Century and would gladly argue the case with any critic.  With Mr. King's newest novel, FROM A BUICK 8, he once again proves that no one can do it better.  This is the story of Troop D of the Pennsylvania State Police and the 1954 Buick that they've kept hidden for twenty-two years in Shed B behind their barracks in the rural community of Statler Township.  It begins in 2001, the year after Trooper Curtis Wilcox is killed in a terrible traffic accident.  His eighteen-year-old son, Ned, begins to hang around the barracks in an effort to keep the memory of his father alive.  In time, he discovers the Buick in Shed B and questions Sandy Dearborn, the commander of Troop D, about it.  Sandy decides to tell Ned the background history of the car and the part his late father played in it-from the discovery of the abandoned Buick at a gas station by Troopers Curtis Wilcox and Ennis Rafferty in 1979, to the disappearance of Rafferty a few hours later, to the stark realization of just how dangerous this oddity of a vehicle was, and to the hideous other-world creatures that occasionally popped out of its trunk.  Twenty-three years later, however, the car is still hungry and decides to go after the son of the man it could never catch unaware.  FROM A BUICK 8 takes us into the small family of Troop D and the secrets they kept hidden for over two decades.  It's about a car that may be a portal to another dimension...a car that's always waiting patiently for someone to get too close to it at the wrong time.  But more than anything, this is a story about friendship, the curiosity that people have for the unknown, and the journey an eighteen-year-old boy has to take in order to become a man.  Only Stephen King could write a book in which the characters don't just come alive for the reader, they become your friends in every sense of the word and you care about what happens to them.  That's the power of Mr. King's storytelling.  You're not reading a novel; you're living it!  This book grabbed me in the first few pages and didn't let go till the end, when I felt a deep sadness in my heart for a past that can never be relived.  The other night, after I'd finished reading FROM A BUICK 8, I saw a GM commercial on television about the legendary car designer, Harley Earl, and guess what he was standing beside-a 1954 Buick Roadmaster!  The whole thing gave me goose bumps.  Thank you, Mr. King, for doing it again.live for the reader, they become your friends in every sense of the word and you care about what happens to them.  That's the power of Mr. King's storytelling.  You're not reading a novel; you're living it!  This book grabbed me in the first few pages and didn't let go till the end, when I felt a deep sadness in my heart for a past that can never be relived.  The other night, after I'd finished reading FROM A BUICK 8, I saw a GM commercial on television about the legendary car designer, Harley Earl, and guess what he was standing beside-a 1954 Buick Roadmaster!  The whole thing gave me goose bumps.  Thank you, Mr. King, for doing it again.	2002-10-16
US	49187160	RHERV739L37DJ	0843950447	458484788	The Hour Before Dark	Books	5	22	22	N	N	TALK ABOUT A FAMILY WITH PSYCHOLOGICAL PROBLEMS!!!	If Stephen King is the \\"Master of Horror,\\" then Douglas Clegg (author of THE NIGHTMARE HOUSE, INFINITY, BREEDER, and YOU COME WHEN I CALL YOU) is definitely the \\"Prince of the Macabre!\\" In Mr. Clegg's newest book, THE HOUR BEFORE DARK, he takes us to Burnley Island, which is just off the coast of Massachusetts and is the home of Gordie Raglan, the owner of the Hawthorn property. When Gordie is brutally murdered by a psychopathic killer and his body later discovered in the property's smokehouse by his daughter, Brooke, the local police are soon stumped as to who could have committed such a heinous crime. The oldest son of the Raglan clan, Nemo, returns home to be with Brooke, and his younger brother, Bruno, hoping that the three of them will be able to figure out who killed their father.  It isn't long, however, before something very dangerous in the Hawthorn house causes long forgotten memeories to rise to the surface in the minds of the three siblings.  To save their sanity and their lives, Nemo, and his sister and brother will have to delve into the past to find the answers to their father's secrets and to the Dark Game that they used to play as children.  THE HOUR BEFORE DARK is a powerful testament to the writing skill of Douglas Clegg. This is an author who knows how to grab the reader by the jugular in the first few pages and not let go till he's gotten the very last drop of blood out of us. He writes characters that are fully formed with the same fears and desires and psychological problems as our closest friends. Well, maybe not the same fears and maybe a lot more in the way of mental disorders. All three of the Raglan children have trouble loving and trusting and being close to another human being; but, then again, don't we all? Mr. Clegg also has a unique talent in being able to show the innocence of childhood with flashbacks and how quickly it can be taken away without a second's notice. And, yes, the atmosphere of the Hawthorn house has been created to perfection with its strange eeriness, beckoning shadows, and unexplainable voices that come from out of nowhere. One can easily imagine death lurking around every corner, anxious to claim its next victim. As for the Raglans, the author has structured a family with very special secrets...secrets that can kill like a sharp knife through an eye socket. This makes THE HOUR BEFORE DARK the ideal Halloween gift for those of you yearning to experience the true essence of fear!erfection with its strange eeriness, beckoning shadows, and unexplainable voices that come from out of nowhere. One can easily imagine death lurking around every corner, anxious to claim its next victim. As for the Raglans, the author has structured a family with very special secrets...secrets that can kill like a sharp knife through an eye socket. This makes THE HOUR BEFORE DARK the ideal Halloween gift for those of you yearning to experience the true essence of fear!	2002-10-08
US	49187160	R3SIL74TOKIBFI	1894815351	828183909	Suffer the Flesh	Books	4	14	17	N	N	"Quitters, Inc. Meets The Story of "O".	If you like the \\"splatter-punk\\" fiction of Jack Ketchum, Edward Lee, and John Skipp & Craig Spector, then you're going to be in pig heaven with Monica J. O'Rourke's first novel, SUFFER THE FLESH.  Consider Ms. O'Rourke to be the female version of the above authors, but with writing that hits you with the force of a stake being driven into the heart!  Her novel is about Zoey Masterson, a big girl who'd like to lose thirty-or-forty pounds.  One afternoon, while scouting through the diet section of a Manhattan book store, Zoey's approached by a stranger named Mel, who used to the same size as her and knows exactly what she's going through.  Mel tells Zoey about a mysterious diet plan that's guaranteed to get the weight off of her, and it's absolutely free.  Mel then apologizes for what's about to happen and disappears.  Later, kidnapped off of the street as she's leaving the store by two men posing as cops, Zoey is drugged and taken to a hidden research facility where the process of losing weight begins.  Once she awakens from her drugged state, our heroine is raped and tortured by the men who run the facility.  Zoey, however, isn't the only victim being subjected to such severe measures.  There are at least sixteen other women at the facility, experiencing the same brutal degradation.  Escape seems to be impossible.  It's only when a group of visitors arrive, who have paid a large sum of money for the privilege of using these helpless women for their own perverted pleasures, that everything turns into a life or death situation.  Zoey and her fellow prisoners must find a way to fight back and escape, or risk facing a hideous death, filled with unbelievable pain and the most horrible humiliation.  SUFFER THE FLESH will leave you utterly speechless, not to mention shocked and numb from what the female characters in the book have to endure.  This novel is NOT for the queasy or fainthearted, but rather for those sick readers (yeah, I'm included) who occasionally like to plunge into a novel that can literally gross you out with its gore and violence.  Beyond that, Ms. O'Rourke (I'd love to sit down with her for an hour to talk about her childhood) proves to be a capable and very talented writer who doesn't mind exploring the dark side of humanity.  Her novel shows men at their worse, and women at their best as they struggle to overcome ADVERSITY with capital letters.  Zoey, as well as the other female victims, is strong and smart and ready for some sweet revenge, though she is guilty of doing a few stupid things near the end of the book that had me pulling my hair out in frustration and wanting to give her a number of hard lashes with a whip.  My motto is always anticipate the worse that can happen and prepare for it.  If it doesn't happen-great!  If it does, then you're ready and won't be surprised.  This isn't a book that will leave a smile on your face.  If you want that, I suggest reading a Danielle Steel novel.  Monica J. O'Rourke, however, is an author who pulls no punches and won't apologize for the journey she takes you on.  SUFFER THE FLESH is definitely a book you won't forget.  Hey, you've been warned!!!unge into a novel that can literally gross you out with its gore and violence.  Beyond that, Ms. O'Rourke (I'd love to sit down with her for an hour to talk about her childhood) proves to be a capable and very talented writer who doesn't mind exploring the dark side of humanity.  Her novel shows men at their worse, and women at their best as they struggle to overcome ADVERSITY with capital letters.  Zoey, as well as the other female victims, is strong and smart and ready for some sweet revenge, though she is guilty of doing a few stupid things near the end of the book that had me pulling my hair out in frustration and wanting to give her a number of hard lashes with a whip.  My motto is always anticipate the worse that can happen and prepare for it.  If it doesn't happen-great!  If it does, then you're ready and won't be surprised.  This isn't a book that will leave a smile on your face.  If you want that, I suggest reading a Danielle Steel novel.  Monica J. O'Rourke, however, is an author who pulls no punches and won't apologize for the journey she takes you on.  SUFFER THE FLESH is definitely a book you won't forget.  Hey, you've been warned!!!	2002-09-28
US	49187160	R23WBI2ZD4X0JS	0312272758	528597475	Panic Snap: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A DARK, SENSUAL JOURNEY INTO THE FORBIDDEN!!!	Laura Reese came upon the scene several years ago with the publication of TOPPING FROM BELOW.  Dealing with the intricacies of dominance and submission, it instantly became an underground classic, demonstrating the great skill Ms. Reese has for writing prose that literally drips like hot butter from a person's palate.  Now, with her second novel, PANIC SNAP, Ms. Reese continues her legacy of well-written, intricately plotted, suspenseful erotica.  PANIC SNAP is the story of Carly Tyler who, as a teenager, was found half buried in a makeshift grave, nearly beaten to death, and suffering from a severe case of amnesia.  Now, fifteen years later, she's on trial for her life, branded as a \\"Madame DeSade\\" by the local press and accused of murdering two people who may have been responsible for the crimes committed against her.  And thus the story begins, moving back a couple of months before the trial and the horrible deaths.  While still experiencing total amnesia with regards to the earlier part of her life, Carly one day accidentally sees a picture of James McGuane in a magazine dealing with California wines and wineries.  The picture triggers instant recognition on her part, jarring memories long hidden in the deepest regions of her subconscious, slowly rising to the surface, but staying just out of reach.  She definitely knows this man from somewhere!  What Carly isn't sure of is whether he was a friend or a foe.  She decides to find out by securing a job as a cook at McGuane's winery.  One thing swiftly leads to another and before you can say the word submission, Carly is having a mad, passionate affair with her new boss.  It doesn't take him long to figure out who she really is, even with the plastic surgery she had after the severe beating.  He eventually agrees to tell her everything, but the truth will have its price.  Carly will have to once again submit to McGuane in whatever way he demands, both ... and psychologically.  PANIC SNAP is riveting from beginning to the end, luring the unsuspecting reader into the world of forbidden .... desires, keeping the heat to a scorching intensity that thrills, excites, and surprises.  While at times too hot to hold, this novel is also suspenseful in the best kind of way.  The characters of Carly and James are richly drawn as human beings who have found themselves on a path of self-destruction, brought about by their obsession with the ... attraction of S&M.  The reader will be kept guessing right up till the end of the book with regards to what happened to Carly as a teenager, never suspecting the actual truth.  Needless to say, PANIC SNAP is a ... explicit novel and not for the fainthearted.  Let's hope it won't be as long before Ms. Reese comes out with another novel of equal quality.o the end, luring the unsuspecting reader into the world of forbidden .... desires, keeping the heat to a scorching intensity that thrills, excites, and surprises.  While at times too hot to hold, this novel is also suspenseful in the best kind of way.  The characters of Carly and James are richly drawn as human beings who have found themselves on a path of self-destruction, brought about by their obsession with the ... attraction of S&M.  The reader will be kept guessing right up till the end of the book with regards to what happened to Carly as a teenager, never suspecting the actual truth.  Needless to say, PANIC SNAP is a ... explicit novel and not for the fainthearted.  Let's hope it won't be as long before Ms. Reese comes out with another novel of equal quality.	2002-09-19
US	49187160	R39KKX7A5MFAY9	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A MASTERPIECE OF LITERARY FICTION!!!	Dennis Lehane's newest novel, MYSTIC RIVER, is the story of Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus and Dave Boyle-three men who grew up in the Flats around Boston and were once childhood friends.  Everything changed for them the day eleven-year-old Dave Boyle was taken off the street by two men who claimed to be cops and disappeared for four very long days.  The young boy finally escaped from his sexual predators, but was never the same again, nor was he ever viewed the same by those who knew him.  Twenty-five years later, the oldest daughter (Katie) of Jimmy Marcus is found murdered in a park and because of circumstantial evidence, Dave Boyle is now the prime suspect.  Investigating the homicide is Sean Devine, and he's determined to right the wrong that was done to his old friend's family, even if it means taking down another friend from his past.  All three men will be drawn together to enact a drama with life and death at the center of its core, and they will learn a deeper meaning to the words friendship, trust and betrayal before the truth of Katie's death is revealed.  No one will walk away unscathed by this tragedy.  MYSTIC RIVER is a dark journey into the hidden demons of humanity.  Written with a sharp poignancy that cuts through the surface masks wore by everyone, this novel draws the reader into a spinning vortex of lies and deceit that leaves a profound sense of inner lost.  Mr. Lehane brings truth and clarity to his characters in a way that allows the reader to acknowledge the fact that they are but a reflection of who we are as human beings, filled with both good and evil.  The reader will also experience the strengths and weaknesses of marriage and how love itself can act as a form of betrayal to those closest to us.  Thought provoking, suspenseful, and utterly engaging, this book demonstrates the sheer quality of Dennis Lehane's skill as a writer and clearly marks him as one of today's top authors.  MYSTIC RIVER will not only entertain, but will also challenge the reader to take a more in-depth look at their own life.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!he reader to take a more in-depth look at their own life.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2002-09-16
US	49187160	R1GSCQ4E3JK175	0440235162	583323315	The Smoke Jumper	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A JOURNEY INTO THE COMPLEXITY OF LOVE!!!	Nicholas Evans is perhaps the one male author of adult romance novels who best conveys the essence what love between a man and a woman can be like when it reaches an almost mystical level of awareness, interaction, and commitment.  In Mr. Evan's newest novel, THE SMOKE JUMPER, he continues the same theme that resonated throughout his first bestseller, THE HORSE WHISPERER, which centers on an extremely passionate and unrelenting love between two people who, for reasons beyond their control, are unable to fulfill this potential for a life-long relationship with each other.  Connor Ford is a Montana cowboy who has a passion for two things: photography and smoke jumping.  During the summer months of each year in the state of Montana, Connor joins an elite group of fire fighters known as \\"smoke jumpers.\\"  They are the ones who are dropped in by parachute to fight the raging forest fires that pop up throughout the state.  When Connor finally meets the new girlfriend, Julia Bishop, of his closet buddy and fellow smoke jumper, Ed Tully, it's love at first sight.  Julia, of course, feels the same way about Connor.  This is the conflict that they will have to wrestle with throughout the rest of the book because Ed is a great guy whom they both love dearly, and neither one of them wants to hurt him.  This becomes more evident when Ed is seriously injured during a rescue attempt to save Julia and a group of teenagers during a forest fire.  Julia later marries Ed out of a sense of obligation, and Connor takes his camera and heads overseas to the war-torn countries of Bosnia and Uganda to learn his craft as a photojournalist.  After many years have passed, a time comes when Connor learns that the lives of Julia and her young daughter are in grave danger and that he's the only one who can save them.  He will don a parachute once again and put his life on the line as he jumps alone into a raging inferno of fire and bullets to save the two people who mean the most to him.  THE SMOKE JUMPER is a powerful novel of love, adventure, sacrifice, and heroism in its most pure form.  Written from the heart by an author who understands that the process of love is never easy and will often lead its recipient on a quest of historic proportions, this novel is one that will definitely appeal to both men and women, allowing them to catch a glimpse into the nature of what it truly means to love another human being.  I especially enoyed the author's poem, \\"Walk Within You,\\" and its poignant message about the transcendence of love after death.  Also, the scene near the end of the novel, when Connor Ford goes to the rescue of Julia and Amy gave me goose bumps and caused a big, silly grin to erupt across my face.  I'm a sucker for these kinds of heroic moments in any novel, but more so when love and the heart are involved.  I found THE SMOKE JUMPER to be a fantastic reading experience, equal to that of THE HORSE WHISPERER, and my only wish is that Nicholas Evans was more of a prolific writer, publishing a novel every twelve-to-eighteen months, instead of every three years.JUMPER is a powerful novel of love, adventure, sacrifice, and heroism in its most pure form.  Written from the heart by an author who understands that the process of love is never easy and will often lead its recipient on a quest of historic proportions, this novel is one that will definitely appeal to both men and women, allowing them to catch a glimpse into the nature of what it truly means to love another human being.  I especially enoyed the author's poem, \\"Walk Within You,\\" and its poignant message about the transcendence of love after death.  Also, the scene near the end of the novel, when Connor Ford goes to the rescue of Julia and Amy gave me goose bumps and caused a big, silly grin to erupt across my face.  I'm a sucker for these kinds of heroic moments in any novel, but more so when love and the heart are involved.  I found THE SMOKE JUMPER to be a fantastic reading experience, equal to that of THE HORSE WHISPERER, and my only wish is that Nicholas Evans was more of a prolific writer, publishing a novel every twelve-to-eighteen months, instead of every three years.	2002-09-16
US	49187160	R3DB5FDRKESVFD	0399148612	531181286	Without Fail (Jack Reacher)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	THIS IS THE BEST IN THE "JACK REACHER" SERIES!!	When Lee Child wrote the KILLING FLOOR several years ago, I new that his first novel was so well written that it was going to be a difficult book to surpass.  Though I continued to buy his novels in hardcover whenever they came out, I found myself more disappointed than amazed at their quality.  ECHO BURNING won me back over and made me eager for the next one in the series.  I'm extremely happy to say that Mr. Child's newest novel, WITHOUT FAIL, is the best in the \\"Jack Reacher\\" series.  Not only did the author manage to grab my attention in the first chapter, he kept me anxiously reading during a day-and-a-half period of time while I was at the bus stop, during my breaks at work, and into the wee hours of the morning at home as sleep beckoned me.  I finished the book with a big, silly grin on my face, saying a silent \\"thank you\\" to Mr. Child for writing such an excellent novel and for providing so much fun.  WITHOUT FAIL brings Jack Reacher back as a private consultant to the United States Secret Service.  A serious threat has been made against the newly elected Vice President, and the head of his protection detail, M.E. Froelich, believes that there's a possibility the threat is coming from inside the Service.  She uses her previous relationship with Jack's late brother, Joe, as a lure to get our ex-military policeman to help her investigate the threat and hopefully to prevent the Vice President from being assassinated.  Jack, knowing that two heads are better than one, calls in his own Army friend, Frances Neagley, to assist him in tracking down the potential killers and to watch his back.  Together, they quickly begin to find flaws in the protection detail around the Vice President and realize that there's no way they can actually stop someone from killing the government official.  Their only course of action is to anticipate the moves of the would-be assassins and to attack first.  What Jack doesn't anticipate, however, is that he will fall in love with his dead brother's former girlfriend, which only adds to the problems he has to solve before the bodies start piling up.  Though WITHOUT FAIL is low on action, the story line more than makes up for it with its multi-layers of suspense that keeps the reader speculating as to whether or not the threat to the Vice President is coming from within or outside of the Secret Service.  We also learn more about Jack's brother, Joe, and their relationship with each other.  Jack comes alive in ways that make him seem more human and gives us a greater understanding of why he's such a loner.  With an inside look at how difficult it is for the Secret Service to protect a politician, WITHOUT FAIL delivers in every way, leading us to an ending that will satisfy even the harshest of critics.  If you enjoyed the other \\"Jack Reacher\\" novels, then you're going to love the newest edition to the series.d brother's former girlfriend, which only adds to the problems he has to solve before the bodies start piling up.  Though WITHOUT FAIL is low on action, the story line more than makes up for it with its multi-layers of suspense that keeps the reader speculating as to whether or not the threat to the Vice President is coming from within or outside of the Secret Service.  We also learn more about Jack's brother, Joe, and their relationship with each other.  Jack comes alive in ways that make him seem more human and gives us a greater understanding of why he's such a loner.  With an inside look at how difficult it is for the Secret Service to protect a politician, WITHOUT FAIL delivers in every way, leading us to an ending that will satisfy even the harshest of critics.  If you enjoyed the other \\"Jack Reacher\\" novels, then you're going to love the newest edition to the series.	2002-09-10
US	49187160	R9QFB368DD6B4	0399149104	87876541	Rain Fall	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MEET JOHN RAIN--THE ULTIMATE ASSASSIN!!!!	Half Japanese and half American, ex-Green Beret and ex-CIA, John Rain is now a professional assassin who lives in Tokyo, Japan and specializes in killings that appear to be death by natural causes.  When he completes a simple assignment and kills Yasuhiro Kawamura, a vice minister of what used to be the Ministry of Construction and Transportation, Rain suddenly finds himself caught in the middle of a national conspiracy that involves the Japanese government, the yakuza, and the United States Central Intelligence Agency.  The dead vice minister had a disc filled with vital information concerning government payoffs to the yakuza, assassinations, and the CIA's role in all of it, and was planning to give it to a newspaper reporter.  The minister hid the disc before his untimely death and now Rain's employers think the minister's lovely, young daughter, Midori, knows where it's located.  They want Rain to find the disc and then kill her.  The only problem is that John Rain has fallen in love for the first time in his life and is willing to risk everything to keep Midori alive.  To do that, he will have to stay several steps ahead of his former employers and be willing to do battle against numerous odds in a fight to the death.  RAIN FALL is Barry Eisler's first novel, and it's right up there with Trevanian's SHIBUMI, Richard Steinberg's THE GEMINI MAN, and the best of Robert Ludlum.  This book crackles with avid suspense, in-depth characterization, unbelievable action, and an anti-hero who comes alive with his own unique code of honor that has the reader cheering for him as he takes on dozens of killers in hand-to-hand combat throughout the streets of Tokyo.  It clearly shows that author Barry Eisler knows his Japan from first-hand experience.  He gives the reader an insider's look at the country, its diverse culture, politics, criminal element, and the martial arts in a way that few other authors have ever been able to do.  For those of you who enjoy a well-written novel with Japan as a backdrop, lots of authentic martial arts action, and a trained killer who knows when to draw the line and do what's right, then RAIN FALL is the book to read.  Afterwards, you'll be waiting anxiously like me for the second novel in the series to come out.l with Japan as a backdrop, lots of authentic martial arts action, and a trained killer who knows when to draw the line and do what's right, then RAIN FALL is the book to read.  Afterwards, you'll be waiting anxiously like me for the second novel in the series to come out.	2002-09-01
US	49187160	R2AUF1IZL32CO9	0743453344	607521541	The Killing Kind	Books	5	8	9	N	N	THIS UNBELIEVABLE SERIES KEEPS GETTING BETTER AND BETTER!!!	Since I read John Connolly's first novel, EVERY DEAD THING, I've quickly become an avid fan of his.  His second book, DARK HOLLOW, confirmed my belief that here was a gifted writer who deserves a much larger \\"fan\\" base than he currently has in the United States.  Now, having read his third novel in the \\"Charlie `Bird' Parker\\" series, I know that this is an author who's on his way to the \\"bestseller\\" lists.  He's simply that good!  Mr. Connolly knows how to create in-depth characters that stand out, weave intricate plots and subplots that keep the reader guessing, and has a style of prose that is almost poetic in its sheer elegance.  In THE KILLING KIND, Charlie Parker returns to investigate the death of a young college student, Grace Peltier, and her connection to a religious organization in Maine known as the Fellowship.  It seems that she was writing a thesis on small group of religious zealots, the Aroostook Baptists, and their mysterious disappearance in the year of 1963.  Her search for information eventually led her to the Fellowship and its founder, Carter Paragon.  Shortly there after, she was found in her car alongside a dirt road with a revolver in her hand, a bullet in her head, and a Bible at her side.  Grace's father, Curtis Peltier, doesn't believe that his daughter committed suicide, and he wants our New England P.I. to find the killer.  As Charlie begins his investigation, however, a mass grave containing the skeletal remains of the Aroostook Baptists is accidentally discovered along a riverbank in northern Maine, and this also seems to be somehow tied in with the Fellowship and Carter Paragon.  When Charlie starts to probe a little too deeply into the workings of this supposedly religious organization, Mr. Pudd (a man who is the very essence of evil and loves to kill his victims with deadly spiders) and his mute, female assistant are sent to warn him off the case.  Since Charlie has never been one to heed the warnings of other people, he continues to plow ahead and soon people start dropping dead around him.  Even when Louis and Angel arrive to offer their help, they prove to be barely a match for our illusive Mr. Pudd, and come to know the true meaning of terror on a first-hand basis.  No one will ever be the same again once the evil Mr. Pudd gets his hands on them.  THE KILLING KIND carries the writings of John Connolly to a much higher level of expertise than his earlier two novels.  Like the first two, it has several plot lines coming from different directions that join together into a smoothly written, utterly satisfying ending.  Both the familiar and new characters in the book ring true to the ear, especially the terrifying Mr. Pudd and the Jewish assassin known only as the Golem.  Mr. Connolly has a remarkable skill in being able to create killers that stand out in ways other authors can only dream about.  That's one of the things that make this series so much fun to read.  Another aspect is the main character of Charlie Parker.  This is a unique individual trying to make amends for the life he's lived by righting the wrongs done to other people.  It also helps that he has friends like Louis and Angel who aren't afraid of doing a little killing, if the situation calls for it.  As the series continues to develop, Charlie and the love of his life, Rachel, are drawn closer and closer to each other, and there's a wonderful surprise on the last page of this novel that makes me extremely eager to read the next one when it comes out.  What makes this book stand out from EVERY DEAD THING and DARK HOLLOW is the sheer craftsmanship that Mr. Connolly displays as a writer.  It's evident that he's now much more comfortable with his characters, plus I love reading his prose out loud.  His sentences are written with skill of a poet, and the magic and power of his words continously transport me to a different world that's often difficult to leave.  All in all, the three novels in the \\"Charlie Parker\\" series are great reads in every sense of the word that leave you starving for more from this extremely gifted author.  John Connolly is definitely a writer on his way to stardom!eads in every sense of the word that leave you starving for more from this extremely gifted author.  John Connolly is definitely a writer on his way to stardom!	2002-08-22
US	49187160	R2FAKWMT6FHKZV	0515134279	176741903	Straw Men	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A TERRIFYING JOURNEY INTO THE WORLD OF SERIAL KILLERS!!!	Michael Marshall (a.k.a. Michael Marshall Smith, author of SPARES, ONE OF US, and ONLY FORWARD) has written one of the best novels of 2002-THE STRAW MEN.  Unlike his previous futuristic novels, this one takes place in the present day with flashbacks to the past.  It's actually two stories (each story could have easily been turned into a successful novel) in one, which come together in the last hundred pages to create an ending that will scare the living daylights out of you with regards to the evil that mankind is capable of perpetrating.  The first story deals with Ward Hopkins, ex-C.I.A., who returns home to Dyersburg, Montana to attend the funeral of his dead parents, both of which were killed in a tragic car accident.  What Ward eventually discovers while going through his old home is that his parents may not have been who he thought they were and that quite possibly they may still be alive, but in hiding from a deadly organization that refers to itself as The Straw Men.  With the help of his good buddy, C.I.A. agent Bobby Nygard, Ward starts searching for answers and inadvertently sets in motion several attempts by The Straw Men to eliminate both him and his friend.  The second story deals with a serial killer known as The Upright Man who takes his victims from the Los Angeles area of California.  When young Sarah Becker disappears one evening while sitting in front of a Barnes & Noble bookstore in Santa Monica, waiting for her father to return, F.B.I. agent Nina Baynam realizes that The Upright Man has returned after being dormant for two years.  She enlists the help of ex LAPD Homicide Detective, John Zandt, who'd once helped her to hunt this serial killer, until his own daughter became a victim.  John, however, is determined that Sarah Becker isn't going to die.  He's going to do everything in his power to save her and to kill The Upright Man in a final act of revenge for destroying his life two years before.  Both stories will slowly converge into one as Ward, Bobby, Nina and John discover that's there something much more deadly out there than just a single serial killer, and that it's going to take all of their strength and courage to fight this force of evil that's killing our children.  THE STRAW MEN is a tour de force for Michael Marshall.  The plot is intricately woven with strong, compelling characters that drive the story forward like a battering ram.  Mr. Marshall knows how to end each chapter with a hook that keeps the reader glued to every single page in a frantic attempt to find out what's going to happen next.  The last forty pages of this novel blew me away and will leave you literally speechless, not to mention fearful that the possibility of what the author suggests is, in fact, true.  I sincerely hope that Mr. Marshall is already at work on a sequel to this breathtaking, utterly scary novel about man's capacity to commit evil and that Hollywood, if it has any sense, has already picked up the screen rights.  THE STRAW MEN is one of those tremendous surprises that all readers of suspense crave from the inner sanctum of their souls.  Buy it, read it, pass it on to your friends, then see if you can sleep at night without having nightmares that The Straw Men may be coming for you.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!!!rd, Bobby, Nina and John discover that's there something much more deadly out there than just a single serial killer, and that it's going to take all of their strength and courage to fight this force of evil that's killing our children.  THE STRAW MEN is a tour de force for Michael Marshall.  The plot is intricately woven with strong, compelling characters that drive the story forward like a battering ram.  Mr. Marshall knows how to end each chapter with a hook that keeps the reader glued to every single page in a frantic attempt to find out what's going to happen next.  The last forty pages of this novel blew me away and will leave you literally speechless, not to mention fearful that the possibility of what the author suggests is, in fact, true.  I sincerely hope that Mr. Marshall is already at work on a sequel to this breathtaking, utterly scary novel about man's capacity to commit evil and that Hollywood, if it has any sense, has already picked up the screen rights.  THE STRAW MEN is one of those tremendous surprises that all readers of suspense crave from the inner sanctum of their souls.  Buy it, read it, pass it on to your friends, then see if you can sleep at night without having nightmares that The Straw Men may be coming for you.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!!!	2002-08-22
US	49187160	R2TEL0CBWHSZ5K	0312278543	941096752	Hard Freeze: A Joe Kurtz Novel (Joe Kurtz Thriller)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	JOE KURTZ IS BACK AND EVERYBODY WANTS HIM DEAD!	I was actually praying last year that Dan Simmons would write a follow-up novel to his excellent \\"private eye\\" thriller, HARDCASE.  Think of the early \\"Burke\\" novels by Andrew Vachss, and you have an idea just how dark, violent, suspenseful and entertaining this debut series is.  When I found out that a new \\"Joe Kurtz\\" novel was in the works, I jumped up and down, singing praises to the gods above, wondering if I could hang in there till the book was published.  Well, I made it, and HARD FREEZE is finally out.  That's not all, either.  Not only is HARD FREEZE better than the first \\"Joe Kurtz\\" novel (if that's even possible), but Mr. Simmons is now working on a third book in this fabulous series about an ex-P.I./ex-con who's hard as nails, yet has a code of honor reminiscent of the Japanese samurai.  This time around, Kurtz has to do battle on several fronts.  First and foremost, there's a contract out on him.  Stephen \\"Little Skag\\" Farino, who's still in Attica, wants Kurtz dead because the P.I. knows too much about the Farino family business, especially with regards to the deaths of his father and older sister.  Little Skag has his younger sister, Angelina, hire the necessary killers to take Kurtz out, but they prove to be no match for our dark hero.  When Angelina sees just how good Kurtz really is, she decides to use him to kill mobster Emilio Gonzaga, who's trying to take over the Farino business, and to neutralize her older brother, who's due for parole in a few months.  As if this wasn't enough to deal with, Kurtz is also being followed by two cops who want a little helping of revenge for the death of Detective Hathaway six months before.  While Kurtz is trying to stay alive, his homeless friend, Pruno, gets him to help a dying concert violinist, John Wellington Frears, hunt for a serial killer that murdered his daughter.  But wait, that isn't all.  Kurtz is also keeping an eye on Donald Rafferty, the legal guardian of Rachel Fielding (the daughter of Kurtz's dead partner, Samantha).  He's afraid that something bad is going to happen to Rachel and is ready to kill Rafferty, if it does.  On top of everything else, Kurtz's secretary, Arlene, is pushing him to help find some new office space and to come up with $35,000.00 to start a new Internet business.  Last but not least, Buffalo, New York is having the worse snowstorm of its history, and when the snow finally melts, there's going to be a dozen dead bodies scattered around the city for the local police to deal with, compliments of Joe Kurtz.  HARD FREEZE is an intensely dark and utterly violent novel with touches of humor mixed in and a hero that isn't always the most likeable person in the world.  It starts out at a brisk pace with the Three Stooges (three ex-cons from Attica) trying to take Joe Kurtz out and doesn't let up till after the final battle at the end when Kurtz will have to tangle with one of the most deadly serial killers around and a skilled martial arts expert that makes Bruce Lee seem like a Boy Scout.  Not only does author, Dan Simmons, manage to expertly juggle a large number of intricate plot points and to tie up each one by the end of the book without it seeming forced or contrived, but he also creates a somber atmosphere with Buffalo, New York as the backdrop that is perfect for this type of story.  The reader is with Joe Kurtz throughout the entire journey, rooting for his survival and for him to take out the bad guys.  Mr. Simmons not only fulfills the reader's expectations in every way imaginable, he leaves the reader wanting more, and that is a skill only an accomplished writer can achieve.  I'm now eagerly awaiting the third book in the series, knowing that it will probably be at least a year or longer before I can once again enter the thoroughly entertaining world of Joe Kurtz.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!dead partner, Samantha).  He's afraid that something bad is going to happen to Rachel and is ready to kill Rafferty, if it does.  On top of everything else, Kurtz's secretary, Arlene, is pushing him to help find some new office space and to come up with $35,000.00 to start a new Internet business.  Last but not least, Buffalo, New York is having the worse snowstorm of its history, and when the snow finally melts, there's going to be a dozen dead bodies scattered around the city for the local police to deal with, compliments of Joe Kurtz.  HARD FREEZE is an intensely dark and utterly violent novel with touches of humor mixed in and a hero that isn't always the most likeable person in the world.  It starts out at a brisk pace with the Three Stooges (three ex-cons from Attica) trying to take Joe Kurtz out and doesn't let up till after the final battle at the end when Kurtz will have to tangle with one of the most deadly serial killers around and a skilled martial arts expert that makes Bruce Lee seem like a Boy Scout.  Not only does author, Dan Simmons, manage to expertly juggle a large number of intricate plot points and to tie up each one by the end of the book without it seeming forced or contrived, but he also creates a somber atmosphere with Buffalo, New York as the backdrop that is perfect for this type of story.  The reader is with Joe Kurtz throughout the entire journey, rooting for his survival and for him to take out the bad guys.  Mr. Simmons not only fulfills the reader's expectations in every way imaginable, he leaves the reader wanting more, and that is a skill only an accomplished writer can achieve.  I'm now eagerly awaiting the third book in the series, knowing that it will probably be at least a year or longer before I can once again enter the thoroughly entertaining world of Joe Kurtz.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2002-08-20
US	49187160	R18O9FP7J787KS	0060182970	552239081	Coldheart Canyon: A Hollywood Ghost Story	Books	4	4	5	N	N	IT COULD'VE BEEN BETTER!!	...The BOOKS OF BLOOD showed me almost twenty years ago that Clive Barker was a gifted writer who wasn't afraid to delve into the darkness of the soul, nor shy away from the excesses of sex, violence, and depravity that the human species is capable of perpetrating.  Since then, however, his novels have gradually drifted into what I would call the \\"PG-13\\" fantasy genre, leaving horror far, far behind.  With the publication of COLDHEART CANYON, my eyes lit up in anticipation, and I once again crossed my fingers and hoped that Barker would take us on a journey into the darkest side of humanity...Here was a chance to do a haunted-house novel that could be filled with sex and debauchery and evil, and how the main character succumbs to his carnal desires, sinking to the lowest levels of despair and perverted behavior, only to eventually fight his way back and escape the sadistic clutches of the house's owner.  In a sense, this is what COLDHEART CANYON is about...at least to a certain degree.  The story deals with mega movie star, Todd Pickett...whose career is suddenly on a downslide because of low film grosses and a facelift that goes bad.  When Todd rents the secluded mansion of former silent film star, Katya Lupi, in the hills of Coldheart Canyon so that he can hide from the press, as well as his fans, he literally takes a giant step into the twilight zone.  You see, the mansion has a special room in its basement with walls covered by magical tiles that are actually a portal into the rather bizarre and violent world that gives the house its strange power.  But that isn't all Todd will have to deal with.  Though in her late nineties, Katya...is alive and well, living in the guesthouse at the rear of her estate, and is still as young and beautiful as ever.  She has been waiting for someone like Todd to come to her for many years.  Known for her twisted sexual parties that attracted the biggest celebrities in Hollywood back during the Twenties, Thirties, and Forties, Katya has grown bored with the ghosts who inhabit her estate and desires a new sex partner that she can corrupt into the depravity that has filled her life for so long.  Todd doesn't have a chance against the strong sensuality of<br />Katya's personality and is eagerly drawn into her web of perversity with hardly any effort on her part.  Only one person might be able to save Todd from this human succubus and that's the head of his fan club, Tammy Lauper...Tammy is type of fan who lives only for the celebrity she worships.  She's also like a dog with a bone and won't let go until she has all of the answers as to why Todd Picket suddenly disappeared from the public's eye.  Determined to find her idol, Tammy is willing to put her life on the line, if that's what it takes to get the job done.  COLDHEART CANYON succeeds on a number of levels; yet, fails on others.  I was strongly drawn to the character of Katya Lupi, and I wish the author had spent more time with her.  This is the type of woman who seduces men with her sexuality and then destroys them both emotionally and physically, much like a Black Widow does with its mate.  The erotic scenes between her and Todd, as well as with some of the ghosts, vividly captured my imagination as few books have.  In fact, I think Mr. Barker should have left out (or at least cut their roles down to the barest minimum) the characters of Tammy, Maxine, and Gary Eppstadt, and focused the majority of the novel on Katya, Todd, the ghosts of the mansion, and the Devil's Country.  Also, I had some difficulty accepting the creatures that inhabited the woods around the estate.  They were more humorous in nature, than scary, and pulled me out of the story a number of times.  I did enjoy the brief glimpse into the world of old Hollywood and the sexual practices of some of its major stars.  With regards to the ending, I would've liked it to be different; but, because of the direction the story line took, this was probably the only way the author could have completed it with any degree of satisfaction.  Mr. Barker mentioned at the beginning of the book, in his \\"Acknowledgments,\\" that he'd written a completely different version of this novel during a very hard period in his life and then later decided to start over when he was just about at the end.  I can't help but wonder if that version of COLDHEART CANYON is closer to what I was looking for, or expecting.  We'll never know.  I have to say that the four-star rating I'm giving this book is a marginal one!uld have completed it with any degree of satisfaction.  Mr. Barker mentioned at the beginning of the book, in his \\"Acknowledgments,\\" that he'd written a completely different version of this novel during a very hard period in his life and then later decided to start over when he was just about at the end.  I can't help but wonder if that version of COLDHEART CANYON is closer to what I was looking for, or expecting.  We'll never know.  I have to say that the four-star rating I'm giving this book is a marginal one!	2002-03-18
US	49187160	R354WMC6WSKFAO	1575661799	154466987	Dead Dog Blues	Books	5	4	4	N	N	ANOTHER TEXAS AUTHOR WHO KNOWS HOW TO DELIVER!!!	For readers who enjoy the novels of Joe R. Lansdale-specifically the Hap/Leonard series-let me introduce you to Mr. Lansdale's mentor, Neal Barrett, Jr., a Texas author who's been writing for well over forty years.  I've been aware of Barrett as a SF author since the late Sixties, but it was only a few weeks ago that I finally decided to purchase a couple of mysteries by him.  I picked up a copy of DEAD DOG BLUES (though it has \\"Blues\\" in the title, this isn't a Wiley Moss novel), read a few pages, and found myself hooked line and sinker.  I can easily see how Mr. Lansdale was influenced by the work of Neal Barrett, especially with regards to developing one's sense of dark humor and in being able to create a cast of colorful, off-the-wall characters.  This is definitely a novel that's filled with both dark humor and an array of colorful characters that leave you wanting more when the last page is finally reached.  DEAD DOG BLUES is the story of Jack Track, a native of Pharaoh, Texas, who left town to go to college and disappeared for fourteen years, living a life of crime part of the time and hiding for the rest by riding the rails.  When his Uncle Will gets sick, Jack returns to Pharaoh and agrees to take over his uncle's job as town constable on a temporary basis.  It's an easy job for Jack.  All he has to do is make sure the downtown stores are locked up at night.  Things suddenly change, however, when millionaire Max Croomer's dog is murdered in a rather peculiar fashion.  Then, Max's maid, Emma, disappears.  When Max is murdered and his body is publicly displayed on the local school's football field, Jack realizes that he has a deadly killer on his hands.  What makes matters even worse is that Max's wife, Millie, had a brief fling with Jack when they were teenagers, and now she's showing interest in renewing their old relationship.  This could cause Jack some serious problems, especially if his girlfriend, Cecily Benet-the yogurt queen of Texas-finds out.  The only one Jack can really count on is his close friend, Earl Murphy, both of which shared a childhood of being poor.  Now, Earl is a self-made Wall Street millionaire who lives on the lot next to Jack's.  There's no house on Earl's property-only stacks of lumber, brick, shingles, pipes, and a shed filled with power tools.  Earl cooks on a camp stove and sleeps in his Aston-Martin Lagonda.  Being black, Earl still harbors some hard feelings toward the good citizens of Pharaoh, and it doesn't bother him in the least that a few of them have been murdered.  Earl, however, has to take a stand when the killer decides to come after Jack.  That's why he keeps a .44 Magnum revolver under the seat of his two hundred thousand dollar car.  DEAD DOG BLUES is a surprise of the best sort.  Mr. Barrett made the town of Pharaoh, Texas come alive with his vivid descriptions and eccentric characters.  Though having done things that are against the law, Jack Track is a strong protagonist that tries to do what's right.  His relationship with Earl Murphy reminded me a lot of Hap Collins and Leonard Pine in the Joe R. Lansdale series.  These are two men who have a bond of friendship between them that can't be broken, and each is ready to come to the other's rescue at a moment's notice.  The women in the story (Cecily Benet, Millie & and Smoothy Croomer) are beautiful, smart, sexy, and know how to make a man suffer in ways that only a female can.  The supporting characters rang true to the ear and reminded me a lot of people I knew from the small town in North Carolina where I come from.  I will say the Mr. Barrett surprised me with who the killer is in the story.  I never saw it coming.  Few writers are able to catch me like that.  I hope the author will eventually bring back Jack Track and Earl Murphy in a future novel.  These guys, like Hap and Leonard, are simply a lot of fun to hang out with, and you never know what they're going to get into.  Highly recommended.only one Jack can really count on is his close friend, Earl Murphy, both of which shared a childhood of being poor.  Now, Earl is a self-made Wall Street millionaire who lives on the lot next to Jack's.  There's no house on Earl's property-only stacks of lumber, brick, shingles, pipes, and a shed filled with power tools.  Earl cooks on a camp stove and sleeps in his Aston-Martin Lagonda.  Being black, Earl still harbors some hard feelings toward the good citizens of Pharaoh, and it doesn't bother him in the least that a few of them have been murdered.  Earl, however, has to take a stand when the killer decides to come after Jack.  That's why he keeps a .44 Magnum revolver under the seat of his two hundred thousand dollar car.  DEAD DOG BLUES is a surprise of the best sort.  Mr. Barrett made the town of Pharaoh, Texas come alive with his vivid descriptions and eccentric characters.  Though having done things that are against the law, Jack Track is a strong protagonist that tries to do what's right.  His relationship with Earl Murphy reminded me a lot of Hap Collins and Leonard Pine in the Joe R. Lansdale series.  These are two men who have a bond of friendship between them that can't be broken, and each is ready to come to the other's rescue at a moment's notice.  The women in the story (Cecily Benet, Millie & and Smoothy Croomer) are beautiful, smart, sexy, and know how to make a man suffer in ways that only a female can.  The supporting characters rang true to the ear and reminded me a lot of people I knew from the small town in North Carolina where I come from.  I will say the Mr. Barrett surprised me with who the killer is in the story.  I never saw it coming.  Few writers are able to catch me like that.  I hope the author will eventually bring back Jack Track and Earl Murphy in a future novel.  These guys, like Hap and Leonard, are simply a lot of fun to hang out with, and you never know what they're going to get into.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-22
US	49187160	R1XWSH01EJY6E8	1892284669	837875934	Blood Dance (The Lost Lansdale Series Vol. 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	LANSDALE COULD EASILY COMPETE WITH THE LATE LOUIS L'AMOUR!!	As I said in my review of THE MAGIC WAGON by Joe R. Lansdale, I'm not really a big fan of Western novels, though I have read a few over the years.  Because I'm now such a huge fan of Mr. Lansdale's writing, I'll read anything by him, no matter what the genre.  BLOOD DANCE is no exception.  It's one of his earlier Westerns that was written back around 83 or 84 and finally saw publication two years ago with Subterranean Press.  Since I loved THE MAGIC WAGON so much, I decided to pick up a copy of this short novel, and I have to say that I definitely got my money's worth out of it.  BLOOD DANCE takes place in the Dakota Territory, ten years after the Civil War, and is the story of Jim Melgrhue, an ex-Confederate soldier and Louisiana boy.  When he and his best friend, Bob Bucklaw, decide to join a gang a train robbers, led by Beau Carson, Jim's instincts tell him that there's nothing but trouble around the corner, which proves to be the case.  The train robbery turns out to be a fiasco, and when Carson orders the execution of all the passengers, Jim and Bob quickly decide to take a stand against the gang and its leader.  Though they valiantly try to save the passengers, the gun battle that ensues leaves Bob Bucklaw dead and Jim seriously wounded.  When Jim eventually comes to, he has to once again fight in order to save himself from a Sioux war party that's investigating the train and its dead passengers.  Only through luck and the unexpected appearance of John Johnston the Crow Killer (think of the Robert Redford movie, \\"Jeremiah Johnson\\") does our protagonist survive.  Thus begins the journey of Jim Melgrhue's quest for vengeance against Beau Carson and his gang of killers.  As Jim heals from his wounds, he tags along with Johnston for a while, and then with a Crow warrior by the name of Dead Thing, who has his own score to settle against Carson.  This leads to a Sundance in which Jim experiences a vision of his future.  Before the path of revenge has been completed, Jim will try his hand at gold mining, save the life of Wild Bill Hickok, and find himself at Little Big Horn with General George Custer and three thousand Indians that are looking for a little payback.  Like the late Louis L'Amour, Joe R. Lansdale does his research and incorporates historical fact with fiction, carefully weaving his adventurous yarn so that the reader doesn't always know what's true and what's created from the author's imagination.  BLOOD DANCE is a quick read that can be done in a couple of hours.  What makes the novel so entertaining is Lansdale's ability as a storyteller.  He has a unique skill at being able to create characters that come alive with just a few short sentences, a dark sense of humor that can make even the most jaded reader laugh out loud, and an uncanny instinct for making any story sound interesting  With Lansdale, the reader knows that he's going to have fun from the first page to the last.  I find it hard to understand why more people don't know about this exceptional East Texas author.  This man can write horror, action, westerns, serious drama, children's fiction, and even zany over-the-top adventure stories.  Illustrated by Mark A. Nelson, BLOOD DANCE is a sure winner for those who enjoy a good Western novel and want to have a few hours of pure fun.d, Jim will try his hand at gold mining, save the life of Wild Bill Hickok, and find himself at Little Big Horn with General George Custer and three thousand Indians that are looking for a little payback.  Like the late Louis L'Amour, Joe R. Lansdale does his research and incorporates historical fact with fiction, carefully weaving his adventurous yarn so that the reader doesn't always know what's true and what's created from the author's imagination.  BLOOD DANCE is a quick read that can be done in a couple of hours.  What makes the novel so entertaining is Lansdale's ability as a storyteller.  He has a unique skill at being able to create characters that come alive with just a few short sentences, a dark sense of humor that can make even the most jaded reader laugh out loud, and an uncanny instinct for making any story sound interesting   With Lansdale, the reader knows that he's going to have fun from the first page to the last.  I find it hard to understand why more people don't know about this exceptional East Texas author.  This man can write horror, action, westerns, serious drama, children's fiction, and even zany over-the-top adventure stories.  Illustrated by Mark A. Nelson, BLOOD DANCE is a sure winner for those who enjoy a good Western novel and want to have a few hours of pure fun.	2002-01-18
US	49187160	R2XDMOM9J514FA	193108100X	376082409	Zeppelins West	Books	4	8	10	N	N	AN OUTRAGEOUS FARCE THAT'S FILLED WITH DARK HUMOR!!!	Joe R. Lansdales newest novel, ZEPPELINS WEST, published in a signed, limited edition by Subterranean Press, gives the reader a glimpse into the outrageous and humorous side of this fantastic authors personality.  Be warned that this is a novel that will probably appeal to only Lansdales diehard fans; but, then again, maybe not.  Written in the classic tradition of H.G. Wells, Julies Verne, and Frank Baum (add a lot of sex, dark humor and violence), Mr. Lansdale has created an adventure story that combines actual historical characters with fictional characters from the novels of the above writers.  You might say ZEPPELINS WEST takes place in a parallel universe, or that it could even be an alternate history of things that might have happened in our own world.  However you choose to view it, the one aspect that stands out for me is that the story had me laughing from beginning to end.  It starts out with Buffalo Bill Codys Wild West Show heading to Japan on board a flying zeppelin.  Accompanied by Annie Oakley, Sitting Bull, Wild Bill Hickok, Ned Buntline, and the shows other employees, Buffalo Bill is definitely not his usual self.  It seems as though his wife caught him cheating on her and shot a rather big hole in him.  To save the famous entertainers life, Dr. Samuel Morse and Professor Maxxon, who happened to be visiting with the Codys at the time, removed Bills head and stuck it in a mason jar filled with pig urine and whisky.  A motorized crank was then attached to the jar so that electrical charges could be sent to Bills head in order to keep his mind activated.  Now, the true purpose behind the Wild West Shows visit to the Land of the Rising Sun isnt to entertain the Japanese, but rather to steal the body of the Frankenstein monster that is being held prisoner by Sokaku Takeda, Shogun of Japan.  Morse and Maxxon think that if they can get hold of the monsters body, itll help them to figure out how to successfully re-attach Buffalo Bills head to the rest of his torso.  Takeda, however, is using parts of the monsters body as an aphrodisiac so that he can satisfy his many concubines.  He therefore has no intention of letting anyone take the monster away from him.  One event leads to another and before you know it, Buffalo Bill and his crew have rescued the monster and are trying to escape in the slow zeppelin.  Japanese biplanes eventually shoot the dirigible down over the Pacific, and thats when the real adventure begins.  Before the story is over with, the whole gang will encounter a submarine thats operated by Captain Bemo and Ned, the reading seal, which then leads to the island of Doctor Momo and the strange creatures that inhabit it.  What really hooked me with ZEPPELINS WEST was the authors sense of off-the-wall humor.  He had the Frankenstein monster develop a gay relationship with the Tin Man, who was still experiencing feelings of guilt over what the Cowardly Lion and Straw Man did to young, innocent Dot and her dog, BoBo, in the Emerald City.  Annie Oakley and Hickok cant keep their hands off of each other.  Theyre constantly doing the two-bear mambo every time theyre left alone for longer than two minutes.  Ned the Seal is the smartest of the bunch, but has an obsession with dime-store novels and his hero, Buffalo Bill.  All of this, however, is just the tip of the iceberg.  There are guest appearances by Vlad Tepes (Dracula), William Rickenbacher, Manfred Von Richthoften, Charles Darwin, and Victor Frankenstein.  ZEPPELINS WEST certainly isnt meant to be a serious piece of literature.  Its an audacious experiment of fiction that allows the author to let loose with his zany imagination and to see where it takes him.  This is certainly one of the funniest novels Ive ever had the pleasure of reading, and it clearly displays the versatile range of Joe R. Lansdales talent as a writer.  Still, this isnt for everyone.  Illustrated by Mark A.Nelson, ZEPPELINS WEST is a novel meant for those who have a wicked sense of humor and who love to laugh out loud, not caring who hears them.Nelson, ZEPPELINS WEST is a novel meant for those who have a wicked sense of humor and who love to laugh out loud, not caring who hears them.	2002-01-15
US	49187160	R35I0RJL6L2KYG	0553801376	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	5	4	7	N	N	HIS BEST BOOK TO DATE!!!	I've been an avid fan of Dear R. Koontz for over two decades, and I can honestly say that his newest novel, ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN, is without a doubt his best piece of fiction to date.  This book literally took my breath away and left me with a profound sense of optimism concerning the future of mankind and our planet, as well as a strong urge to go out and acquire a dog as a fellow companion (I suspect this part is Trixie's doing-I know she helped her owner write some of this).  The novel begins in southern California when Micky Bellsong, a young woman who's trying to get her life back together after having just got out of jail, meets her new next-door neighbor, nine-year-old Leilani Klonk, in the trailer park where she and her Aunt Geneva live.  Micky is lying in her aunt's backyard one afternoon, working on a suntan, when Leilani walks over and introduces herself.  Leilani, though beautiful in face and spirit, not to mention having a near-genius intellect, is also crippled in her left leg and has a deformed left hand.  After some chitchatting, the two females find themselves quickly bonding with each other.  When Leilani is invited over to have dinner that night with Micky and Geneva, the little girl tells them about her life and the death of her brother.  It seems that Leilani's stepfather, Preston Maddoc (a handsome ex-university professor and investigator of UFO phenomena) murdered the boy because of the child's deformity, not to mention a large number of other people.  Leilani therefore believes that she's next on Maddoc's hit list and that her death is going to occur on or before her tenth birthday.  What Leilani tells Micky and Geneva sounds so preposterous that they don't know whether to accept it as fact or fantasy.  Before they can learn more, however, Leilani and her family disappear into the night, and Micky now has to decide whether to follow them in the hope of saving her young friend.  At the same time this is happening, a motherless boy, who calls himself Curtis Hammond, and his dog, Old Yeller, are being chased across the state of Colorado by the U.S. government and also by something far worse and more frightening...something that will destroy anyone that gets in its way.  Unknown to both of the children, they are on a collision with each other and with death.  Only one person might be able to save them.  His name is Noah Farrel-a tough ex-cop who's now a private investigator and has a thing for rescuing abused children.  As good as Farrel is (even with the help of Micky Bellsong), he may have just met his match with Leilani's evil stepfather and the ruthless, unforgiving force that is after Curtis.  ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is a taut thriller that is utterly suspenseful with an edge-of-your-seat excitement that keeps you turning page after page as if you're obsessed.  It has some of the most vividly drawn characters that Dean Koontz has ever written, both good and evil.  If that wasn't enough, ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is also a spiritual treatise that will have you looking at the stars in a new and more intense way, wondering if the author has the inside scoop on what's out there and on the Presence that created us and the universe.  At the beginning of the novel, Aunt Geneva tells Micky that \\"Sometimes-not often, but once in a great while-your life can change for the better in one moment of grace, almost a sort of miracle.  Something so powerful can happen, someone so special come along, some precious understanding descend on you so unexpectedly that it just pivots you in a new direction, changes you forever.\\"  This book is one of those unexpected miracles that can change you, if you're open and ready.  Buy it, read it, then tell your friends about it.  ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is a book so special that you'll definitely want to share it with those closest to you, especially your canine friends.alls himself Curtis Hammond, and his dog, Old Yeller, are being chased across the state of Colorado by the U.S. government and also by something far worse and more frightening...something that will destroy anyone that gets in its way.  Unknown to both of the children, they are on a collision with each other and with death.  Only one person might be able to save them.  His name is Noah Farrel-a tough ex-cop who's now a private investigator and has a thing for rescuing abused children.  As good as Farrel is (even with the help of Micky Bellsong), he may have just met his match with Leilani's evil stepfather and the ruthless, unforgiving force that is after Curtis.  ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is a taut thriller that is utterly suspenseful with an edge-of-your-seat excitement that keeps you turning page after page as if you're obsessed.  It has some of the most vividly drawn characters that Dean Koontz has ever written, both good and evil.  If that wasn't enough, ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is also a spiritual treatise that will have you looking at the stars in a new and more intense way, wondering if the author has the inside scoop on what's out there and on the Presence that created us and the universe.  At the beginning of the novel, Aunt Geneva tells Micky that \\"Sometimes-not often, but once in a great while-your life can change for the better in one moment of grace, almost a sort of miracle.  Something so powerful can happen, someone so special come along, some precious understanding descend on you so unexpectedly that it just pivots you in a new direction, changes you forever.\\"  This book is one of those unexpected miracles that can change you, if you're open and ready.  Buy it, read it, then tell your friends about it.  ONE DOOR AWAY FROM HEAVEN is a book so special that you'll definitely want to share it with those closest to you, especially your canine friends.	2002-01-12
US	49187160	R25LXATXIUV03O	0451410017	182243858	Pressure Points	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A NOVEL OF GREED, POWER, AND TREACHEROUS MURDER!!!	Larry Brooks came upon the scene last year with his debut novel, DARKNESS BOUND, an erotic, suspenseful thriller that left me fearful of ladies dressed in black leather!  His newest novel, PRESSURE POINTS, does the same thing for self-help seminars that his last one did for sensuously clad females.  Now, let me pre-warn the reader that this isn't a fast paced book, though it does move rather quickly.  PRESSURE POINTS is a slow-burning fuse that delves into strong character development and moves forward as layer after layer of intense suspense is added, until it finally reaches an exploding climax.  Also, I would ask the reader to think of the Michael Douglas movie, The Game, when reading this because nothing is as it seems.  Neither the reader, nor the main characters in the book, will know what's real or simply a masterful illusion.  The one thing the reader may be assured of, however, is that a lot of people are going to die before the ending is reached!  The story deals predominantly with Brad Teeters, Pamela Wiley and Mark Johnson.  All three are high-ranking employees of the Wright &amp; Wong advertising and marketing agency in Seattle, Washington.  Brad is the \\"people\\" person who's capable of selling any potential client on the agency's ability to meet their needs.  Pamela is the creative source behind the agency's success, and Mark is the genius from the business end of it.  Each of these people have their strong points and weak points, and each of them has now reached a point in their life where they want more than the agency is willing to give.  When they approach Ken Wong-the sole surviving founder of the agency-and inform him of their intent to instigate a hostile takeover of the firm, he reluctantly agrees to their demands, but only on one condition.  Ken tells the trio that he'll willingly turn over the agency to them; but first, they must attend and complete a self-help seminar in northern California.  The rationale behind this maneuver is that Ken Wong hopes the seminar (one he, himself, recently attended) will help them to see the error of their ways and that they're not ready to successfully run the agency.  All three team members, hungry for what they consider to be their justly rewards, finally agree to spend a week at the seminar, not knowing that their lives will, in fact, change rather drastically.  What's not known is that they have been marked for death and that the real challenge will be to simply stay alive!  PRESSURE POINTS reminded me a great deal of the novels that were published back in the fifties, sixties, and early seventies when strong character development and avid suspense were the most important ingredients of any well-written thriller...when the whole point was to keep the reader guessing right up till the very last page.  Mr. Brooks' newest novel succeeds tremendously on this level.  Strange as it may seem, however, the one character I was most drawn to was Brad Teeters' wife, Beth.  She reminded me somewhat of the \\"Dark Lady\\" from DARKNESS BOUND in her ability to manipulate the people around her in order to achieve her goals.  Not only is she smart, beautiful, and sensuous, Beth Teeters is also as dangerous as a Black Widow spider.  She'll do whatever it takes to protect her and her husband's interests, even it means having a clandestine affair with Ken Wong, or seducing others in order to put her own game plan into motion.  This is definitely a woman you don't want to cross!  All in all, PRESSURE POINTS is an excellent follow-up to Larry Brooks' first novel.  It's a page-turner of the best sort and will keep you guessing in a futile effort to figure out what's going to happen next.ong hopes the seminar (one he, himself, recently attended) will help them to see the error of their ways and that they're not ready to successfully run the agency.  All three team members, hungry for what they consider to be their justly rewards, finally agree to spend a week at the seminar, not knowing that their lives will, in fact, change rather drastically.  What's not known is that they have been marked for death and that the real challenge will be to simply stay alive!  PRESSURE POINTS reminded me a great deal of the novels that were published back in the fifties, sixties, and early seventies when strong character development and avid suspense were the most important ingredients of any well-written thriller...when the whole point was to keep the reader guessing right up till the very last page.  Mr. Brooks' newest novel succeeds tremendously on this level.  Strange as it may seem, however, the one character I was most drawn to was Brad Teeters' wife, Beth.  She reminded me somewhat of the \\"Dark Lady\\" from DARKNESS BOUND in her ability to manipulate the people around her in order to achieve her goals.  Not only is she smart, beautiful, and sensuous, Beth Teeters is also as dangerous as a Black Widow spider.  She'll do whatever it takes to protect her and her husband's interests, even it means having a clandestine affair with Ken Wong, or seducing others in order to put her own game plan into motion.  This is definitely a woman you don't want to cross!  All in all, PRESSURE POINTS is an excellent follow-up to Larry Brooks' first novel.  It's a page-turner of the best sort and will keep you guessing in a futile effort to figure out what's going to happen next.	2001-12-17
US	49187160	RQWBZD325XSEW	0671040634	954792538	World Without End	Books	4	2	6	N	Y	A NOVEL OF RELENTLESS SUSPENSE AND BREAKNECK PACING!!!	The discovery of Chris Mooney and his first novel, DEVIANT WAYS, last year was one of the most rewarding surprises of 2000.  I found it almost unbelievable that a new author could come from out of nowhere with a novel of such riveting suspense, in-your-face violence, and pacing that leaves the reader utterly breathless by the end as he/she travels into the world of the serial killer.  Mr. Mooney is now back with his newest novel, WORLD WITHOUT END, and comes very, very close to matching the quality and intensity of his first book.  This time around, the story deals with CIA operative, Steve Conway, who's a member of the elite IWAC (Information Warfare Analysis Center) unit, and whose mission is to stop one of the most diabolical terrorists-Angel Eyes-in the world from stealing the ultimate military weapon-an optical camouflage suit that can render a soldier invisible to the enemy.  Conway is one the CIA's best agents: he's tough, highly intelligent, loyal to the core, and totally relentless in carrying out his assignments.  Though having come close to death on his previous mission, Conway is ready to get back into the trenches of dirty warfare and stop Angel Eyes from acquiring the one weapon that could literally change the course of mankind.  A trap is set by IWAC for Angel Eyes in Austin, Texas at the company that's designing this camouflage suit.  The creator of the suit, Major Dixon, is being used as bait to draw Angel Eyes out.  After months of hard work and diligent planning, everything seems ready to roll, but something goes tragically wrong.  Conway and the other members of the IWAC unit are caught completely off guard.  Major Dixon is kidnapped, the camouflage suit is stolen, and almost everyone on the CIA's team is murdered.  Due to blind luck, Conway barely manages to escape death a second time.  The cost of surviving, however, is tremendous.  Conway now realizes that there's a traitor in his organization that has ties to the Russian Mafia and who wants the suit for himself.  As Conway seeks to follow the trail of clues that will lead him to Dixon and the suit, he has to find a way to stay alive while combating the traitor within the Agency's midst and keeping one step ahead of Angel Eyes.  Conway won't know whom to trust as the bodies start piling up, and neither will the reader.  As Angel Eyes tells him: Trust no one!  WORLD WITHOUT END is a sleek, edge-of-your-seat thriller that sets a neck-breaking pace for the reader in the first twenty-or-so pages.  The character of Steve Conway, though strong and determined, is a vulnerable one.  He grew up as an orphan and learnt to keep his emotions bottled up, allowing few people to get close to him.  In fact, it seems that most of the main characters in this novel had extremely bad childhoods.  Everyone from Angel Eyes, to his right-hand assistant, Gunther, to Steve's partner and girlfriend, Pasha Romanov, and even the renegade CIA agent have tried to escape the past of their earlier, tormented years.  Also, except for Steve and two of his old friends from his college days, all of the characters (and there are a lot of them-so pay attention!) have secret agendas to fulfill and are definitely not the nicest people in the world.  A couple of them have the nasty habit of biting off the ears of people before the serious torture begins.  Whether intentional or not, there were certain scenes in the book where Angel Eyes reminded me a great deal of Dr. Hannibal Lecter, especially when he was conversing with Steve Conway and the torture scene at the end of the novel.  And, for the fans of DEVIANT WAYS, there's a brief mention of Malcolm Fletcher.  It appears that both the CIA and the FBI are intent on tracking him down and delivering their form of deadly justice for his so-called sins.  The writing skills of Mr. Mooney are definitely that of a seasoned pro.  He knows how to quickly hook the reader into his books, deliver a sense of pacing that makes it almost impossible to put the novel down for more than a minute or two, create scenes of such intensity that one has to occasionally back off for a few moments to digest the horror of what he/she has just read, and bring the reader face to face with characters who are so delightfully evil.  WORLD WITHOUT END clearly demonstrates that Chris Mooney's first novel was no fluke, and that this author is on his way to a long and successful career.  I wouldn't be a bit surprised if Hollywood wasn't already knocking on his door for the screen rights to his two novels.e novel down for more than a minute or two, create scenes of such intensity that one has to occasionally back off for a few moments to digest the horror of what he/she has just read, and bring the reader face to face with characters who are so delightfully evil.  WORLD WITHOUT END clearly demonstrates that Chris Mooney's first novel was no fluke, and that this author is on his way to a long and successful career.  I wouldn't be a bit surprised if Hollywood wasn't already knocking on his door for the screen rights to his two novels.	2001-11-19
US	49187160	R14NMH5YQ6M8U1	0375413227	723539103	Pain Management: A Burke Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A SLOW RETURN TO THE OLD BURKE!!	Before I start in on the review of the newest novel by Andrew Vachss, let me first say that the Four-star rating I've given this book is a marginal one.  A three-and-a-half star rating would've been closer to what I feel it deserves.  My gripe with the present \\"Burke\\" novels is that since the death of Wesley, Mr. Vachss has taken the series in a different direction.  The violence and darkness that was so powerful in the earlier books has gradually been toned down, and Burke has become more introspective and philosophical.  Even Max the Silent has been more or less eased out of the last few novels with only an occasional cameo appearance.  In other words, the author slowly removed the things that made the \\"Burke\\" series stand out in the world of fiction and that gave it the solid punch in the gut that other novels seemed to lack.  That's my complaint for better or worse.  With regards to PAIN MANAGEMENT, I can say that I enjoyed this novel slightly more than I did the last one.  Burke is still living in the Portland area of Oregon with his Cambodian girlfriend, Gem.  Feeling bored and not having much to do, Burke decides to accept a job from Kevin Carpin to find his missing teenage daughter, Rosebud.  It appears that Rosebud is a runaway, and no one has the slightest idea where she's gone or why.  Burke questions her family, then the teachers at her school, and then her best friend.  He begins to gradually pick up clues that lead him to the writer of a comic book series that Rosebud liked to read.  In time, he runs into Peaches, a lone, sexy female who knows the dark streets of Portland and where the action in the city is located.  Peaches is also a drug runner, but not in the normal sense of the term.  She hijacks, with the help of friends, truckloads of medical drugs so that people in the area who are dying of AIDS and have terminal cancer can receive the necessary medication they need to ease their suffering.  Burke eventually agrees to assist Peaches in a hijacking in return for her help in finding Rosebud.  At the same time, as Burke continues his search in the red-light district of Portland, he discovers that a couple of guys just out of prison are threatening the prostitutes on the street with outright violence in order to get a percentage of their nightly earnings.  Deciding to take out the two scumbags, Burke reverts to his old ways (Yeah!!!) as he teaches the guys the true meaning of violence.  In the background of all of this is still the mysterious reason as to why Rosebud ran away and where she's hiding.  In PAIN MANAGEMENT, a large part of the novel is spent with Burke simply driving around and asking questions.  At least he's doing something this time around!  The book doesn't have a lot of action, but what there is reminded me of the earlier novels.  A great deal of information is given about the plight of sick people in our country who are unable to get the necessary drugs to alleviate their pain and how little the government is doing about it.  There's also a bit of information concerning the mean streets of Portland and what one can expect to see should a visit to the area ever come about.  Burke and Gem (she's pushing hard for some kind of commitment from him) are definitely not getting along, and our dark knight thinks about returning to New York, where his chosen family is, a number of times throughout the book.  One can only hope!  I have no complaints about the writing style of Mr. Vachss.  He's an exceptional author who knows how to create dark and intriguing characters, as well as a brooding atmosphere for his stories.  The only thing I ask for is more action in the books.  Bring back Burke's family, especially Max the Silent.  Even that may not be enough, however.  All of the original characters seem to be too comfortable and complacent in their present lives.  Wesley is definitely the one to bring back!  Since his death several years ago was left open-ended, it could easily be done.  I even think Mr.Vachss has been considering the possibility of doing this for the last couple of novels.  Wesley is the only character that can raise the stakes, kick some righteous butt from one end of the city to the other, and give the old-time readers an adrenaline rush that will knock them right out of their seats.  Andrew Vachss is a remarkable author who's already proven his ability to write the best hardcore action-thrillers in the business, and he can definitely do it again!Vachss has been considering the possibility of doing this for the last couple of novels.  Wesley is the only character that can raise the stakes, kick some righteous butt from one end of the city to the other, and give the old-time readers an adrenaline rush that will knock them right out of their seats.  Andrew Vachss is a remarkable author who's already proven his ability to write the best hardcore action-thrillers in the business, and he can definitely do it again!	2001-11-13
US	49187160	R2ANOCUQKCN8ZM	0446404306	361676729	Cold in July	Books	5	33	35	N	N	JOE LANSDALE'S VERSION OF EAST TEXAS NOIR!!!	COLD IN JULY by Joe R. Lansdale is one of the author's earlier novels.  The book was first published in 1989, and is just as fast paced, thought provoking, and violent as his newer ones.  This is the story of Richard Dane, a nice man with a beautiful wife, Ann, a lovely little boy named Jordan, and is the owner of a framing shop in LaBorde, Texas.  Late one night in their home, a strange noise wakes Ann.  She elbows Richard awake, and it isn't long before he realizes that a burglar has broken into their house.  He grabs a .38 snub-nose revolver from the closet and goes out into the living room to investigate.  When he surprises the burglar, the man takes a shot at him and misses.  Richard returns fire and kills the intruder.  Later, the police tell him that the burglar's name was Freddy Russel.  Unfortunately for Richard, the dead man's father, Ben Russel, has just gotten out of prison after serving a twenty-year term.  When Ben learns of his son's death, he swears revenge against Richard and his family, promising to kill little Jordan Dane.  What neither Ben, nor Richard, comprehend until later, is that both of them have unintentionally been set up by the local police.  There's something going on behind the scenes, and it has to do with Freddy Russel's death, along with a cover up that's tied into the FBI.  Both men quickly realize that they're going to need some outside help, if they want to solve the mystery.  Russel's old friend, Jim Bob Luke (BAD CHILI and CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS) who's an ex-Green Beret, a master of the Korean martial art Hapkido, and is now a private eye in Houston, is called in to help find the answers.  It isn't long before all three of them begin to understand that the answers they're seeking are going to have a high price.  The answers will involve both a ring of people that make snuff movies and death on a massive scale.  Before the novel is over, Richard, Ben, and Jim Bob will have to take the law into their own hands, charging in with guns blazing, killing the scum that torture, rape, and murder innocent women for fun and profit.  COLD IN JULY, as Mr. Lansdale might say, is true East Texas noir.  Filled with plot twists that keep the reader constantly on his/her toes, the journey from beginning to end is one of adventure, edge-of-your suspense, intense violence, down-to-earth humor, and an array of memorable characters that stay with you long after the story is finished.  In many ways Jim Bob Luke steals the entire show.  He's egotistical, over-confident, fearless, the best at what he does, funny in a redneck sort of way, and as deadly and fast as a striking cobra.  Jim Bob certainly needs to have a novel of his own!  One thing that I've notice after reading several of Mr. Lansdale's novels is that he writes extremely strong female characters.  Ann Dane is not only beautiful and highly intelligent, she's almost as tough in her own way as Jim Bob Luke is.  She's not afraid to get down and dirty and to do what's necessary to protect her family.  The villains (Freddy Russel and the Mex) are also exceedingly well drawn and are definitely characters you wouldn't want to meet in real life.  What I've found with the novels by Joe R. Lansdale is that they're never boring.  The author knows how to tell a great yarn that's utterly believable, and he can pen a tale in any genre of his choosing.  As I've said before, this East Texas author is a master craftsman at the art of writing.  Anything by him is highly recommended.  Finding this amazing storyteller is perhaps the best thing that's happened to me this year, and I sincerely hope more readers will eventually become aware of him and his works of fiction.blazing, killing the scum that torture, rape, and murder innocent women for fun and profit.  COLD IN JULY, as Mr. Lansdale might say, is true East Texas noir.  Filled with plot twists that keep the reader constantly on his/her toes, the journey from beginning to end is one of adventure, edge-of-your suspense, intense violence, down-to-earth humor, and an array of memorable characters that stay with you long after the story is finished.  In many ways Jim Bob Luke steals the entire show.  He's egotistical, over-confident, fearless, the best at what he does, funny in a redneck sort of way, and as deadly and fast as a striking cobra.  Jim Bob certainly needs to have a novel of his own!  One thing that I've notice after reading several of Mr. Lansdale's novels is that he writes extremely strong female characters.  Ann Dane is not only beautiful and highly intelligent, she's almost as tough in her own way as Jim Bob Luke is.  She's not afraid to get down and dirty and to do what's necessary to protect her family.  The villains (Freddy Russel and the Mex) are also exceedingly well drawn and are definitely characters you wouldn't want to meet in real life.  What I've found with the novels by Joe R. Lansdale is that they're never boring.  The author knows how to tell a great yarn that's utterly believable, and he can pen a tale in any genre of his choosing.  As I've said before, this East Texas author is a master craftsman at the art of writing.  Anything by him is highly recommended.  Finding this amazing storyteller is perhaps the best thing that's happened to me this year, and I sincerely hope more readers will eventually become aware of him and his works of fiction.	2001-11-08
US	49187160	R2C60R5HEEQX3Q	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A GOOD ADDITION TO THE SERIES!!	I've been a fan of the \\"Matthew Scudder\\" series by Lawrence Block for about eight years (thank you, Mark, for turning me on to Block, Robert Crais, James Lee Burke, Stuart Woods, and Jeremiah Healy-I owe you!).  The earlier books in the series were so-so, but good enough to keep me coming back.  Then, I read A TICKET TO THE BONEYARD, A DANCE AT THE SLAUGHTHOUSE, and A WALK AMONG THE TOMBSTONES and was blown away by the darkness, the violence, the intensity of the storyline, and the strong character development.  In other words, I was hooked!  For awhile, I began to think that maybe Andrew Vachss had taken over the series from Mr. Block, and then the novels began to gradually tone down and find a nice balance.  They were never again as dark as the above three titles; but, by that time, I'd become friends with Matthew Scudder and simply enjoyed hanging out with him whenever a new book came out.  In HOPE TO DIE, the newest novel in the series, Scudder is now 62 years of age (it made me realize how old I'm getting), but still going strong.  He and Elaine are happily married and are financially set for life-due to her investments-so that neither of them has to work again, unless they choose to.  On a particular Monday night, both the Hollanders and the Scudders are attending a dinner and concert at the Lincoln Center.  After the concert is over, the Hollanders return home (they live less than a mile from Matthew and Elaine) and are brutally murdered by two burglars.  The next day when the news of the murders hits the streets, the Scudders are as shocked as the other people who attended the concert that night.  Both of the killers are found dead a few days later, locked in an apartment.  The police rule it a murder and a suicide, and quickly close the case so that everything can return to normal.  Matthew Scudder, however, is drawn to the closed case for some unknown reason, feeling the urge to dig a little and to see what he comes up with.  Some of the things in the case don't add up for him, and it isn't long before he begins to suspect that there was a third person behind the scenes, controlling the crime from beginning to end.  With the help of his partner, T.J., Scudder digs even deeper, trying to find someone who might've profited from the death of the Hollanders.  The Hollanders' daughter and niece are possible suspects, but it doesn't feel right to him.  He senses that the killer is a male who's highly intelligent and utterly diabolical.  Scudder also thinks that the killer might strike again.  The only question is whether or not our New York P.I. can solve the case before the next murder takes place.  HOPE TO DIE is a good, old fashion mystery with well-established characters carrying the storyline to its completion.  The author gives us a detailed look at New York City, introduces us to some new characters that may be popping up again in future books, and writes part of the novel from the killer's point of view.  Neither the killer nor the story is as dark and intense the three novels I listed above.  Still, I found HOPE TO DIE to be a fun read.  I liked the majority of characters in it and had a good time trying to guess whom the killer really was.  With at least fifty novels to his credit, Lawrence Block has certainly mastered the art of writing fiction, and fans of  Matthew Scudder will find this novel to a pleasurable addition to the series.don't add up for him, and it isn't long before he begins to suspect that there was a third person behind the scenes, controlling the crime from beginning to end.  With the help of his partner, T.J., Scudder digs even deeper, trying to find someone who might've profited from the death of the Hollanders.  The Hollanders' daughter and niece are possible suspects, but it doesn't feel right to him.  He senses that the killer is a male who's highly intelligent and utterly diabolical.  Scudder also thinks that the killer might strike again.  The only question is whether or not our New York P.I. can solve the case before the next murder takes place.  HOPE TO DIE is a good, old fashion mystery with well-established characters carrying the storyline to its completion.  The author gives us a detailed look at New York City, introduces us to some new characters that may be popping up again in future books, and writes part of the novel from the killer's point of view.  Neither the killer nor the story is as dark and intense the three novels I listed above.  Still, I found HOPE TO DIE to be a fun read.  I liked the majority of characters in it and had a good time trying to guess whom the killer really was.  With at least fifty novels to his credit, Lawrence Block has certainly mastered the art of writing fiction, and fans of  Matthew Scudder will find this novel to a pleasurable addition to the series.	2001-11-06
US	49187160	R1YU7JZOTH6L6F	1892284294	813566568	Waltz of Shadows (Lost Lansdale Series ~ Volume 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A DARK NOVEL OF INTENSE VIOLENCE!!!	WALTZ OF SHADOWS by Joe R. Lansdale was first written back during the early nineties in a much longer version for Mysterious Press.  Because the author felt he'd missed the mark in the writing of this mainstream novel, he had it pulled from publication and more or less let it sit in a trunk for the next several years.  When Subterranean Press expressed an interest in doing a signed, limited edition of it, Mr. Lansdale took the book out of storage and trimmed over two hundred pages off of the manuscript.  Though he felt better about the final result, there was still a lot of trepidation with regards to seeing the book published.  Why?  I have no idea.  This is a terrific novel!  When I read his introduction to it, I was expecting a clunker with maybe a few shining moments.  Instead, I found myself hooked in the first twenty pages and then propelled forward like a human cannon ball being fired from one end of the circus tent to the other.  WALTZ OF SHADOWS is the story of Hank Small-a pretty nice guy who owns a video store and has a great wife and two wonderful children-and what happens to him when his young nephew, Billy, calls him for help.  It seems that Billy got involved in a yuppie gang of young people who enjoyed perverted sex and courting death for that sharp adrenaline rush.  One night when the gang decides to do a home invasion in order to score a little cash, they encounter two men (Fat Boy and Snake) at their intended victim's home who are the personification of death itself.  Billy manages to escape, but the rest of the gang is tortured and murdered.  Billy knows that he's being hunted by the two psychos and wants his uncle Hank to help him out of this dilemma.  Not knowing quite what to do, Hank turns to his half brother, Arnold, who he hasn't talked to in over ten years.  Arnold is one tough hombre and has spent a bit of time in prison.  Hank realizes that if anyone will know how to handle the two psychopaths, it'll be him.  Before the two brothers can even get a game plan rolling, however, Fat Boy and Snake find Billy and do a little good-natured torturing to see who knows about them.  From that point on, nobody in the Small family is safe.  If Hank wants to keep his wife and children alive, both he and Arnold are going to have to prepare for a bloodbath.  WALTZ OF SHADOWS is dark, violent, intense, and utterly suspenseful.  Fat Boy and Snake are two of the vilest criminals I've ever read in fiction.  They're ruthless and evil in every sense of the word, and totally believable.  When they invade Hank's home, humiliating him and raping his wife, the reader is stunned and left speechless by the graphic violence and how realistically it's described.  Mr. Lansdale doesn't pull any punches.  He sets the ground rules for what's to follow so that the reader will understand Hank and Arnold's need for absolute revenge, and that it's going to be a fight to the death with no mercy shown by either side.  All of the characters are avidly drawn, and the prose is pure Lansdale at its best.  Except for Andrew Vachss, I don't know of any other author who could've written a novel of such darkness and violence, and still have the protagonists maintain their humanity.  This novel is definitely a winner!  I hope Mr. Lansdale will eventually allow it to be published in a mass-market paperback format so that thousands of other readers will get to experience this \\"dark time in the dark woods.\\"  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!can even get a game plan rolling, however, Fat Boy and Snake find Billy and do a little good-natured torturing to see who knows about them.  From that point on, nobody in the Small family is safe.  If Hank wants to keep his wife and children alive, both he and Arnold are going to have to prepare for a bloodbath.  WALTZ OF SHADOWS is dark, violent, intense, and utterly suspenseful.  Fat Boy and Snake are two of the vilest criminals I've ever read in fiction.  They're ruthless and evil in every sense of the word, and totally believable.  When they invade Hank's home, humiliating him and raping his wife, the reader is stunned and left speechless by the graphic violence and how realistically it's described.  Mr. Lansdale doesn't pull any punches.  He sets the ground rules for what's to follow so that the reader will understand Hank and Arnold's need for absolute revenge, and that it's going to be a fight to the death with no mercy shown by either side.  All of the characters are avidly drawn, and the prose is pure Lansdale at its best.  Except for Andrew Vachss, I don't know of any other author who could've written a novel of such darkness and violence, and still have the protagonists maintain their humanity.  This novel is definitely a winner!  I hope Mr. Lansdale will eventually allow it to be published in a mass-market paperback format so that thousands of other readers will get to experience this \\"dark time in the dark woods.\\"  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2001-11-05
US	49187160	R1H5I6I3AC8ZSQ	1892284812	962377905	The Magic Wagon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A GRAND ADVENTURE INTO THE OLD WEST!!!	Though I've read maybe a dozen or more westerns (Edgar Rice Burroughs, Louis L'Amour, and Larry McMurtry) in my lifetime, I've never been a big fan of this particular genre.  I love western movies, but getting me to read a western novel nowadays is like getting me to pay a visit to the dentist's office when I have a cavity that needs filling.  Now, as I've said in a number of other reviews, I've become addicted to the writings of Joe R. Lansdale during the last several months.  This is one of those rare authors who is so gifted that he can literally write in any genre-horror, mystery, suspense, children's, and even westerns.  It's because of his talent and craftsmanship at telling a good yarn that I decided to read THE MAGIC WAGON.  I wasn't sure if I'd enjoy reading a western again after so many years away from the genre, but my faith in Mr. Lansdale's storytelling spurred me forward.  It's enough to say that by page fourteen, I was hooked line and sinker, and ended up reading this short novel (155 pages) straight through in one setting.  THE MAGIC WAGON takes place in 1909 and is the story of Buster Fogg, a fifteen-year-old boy who lost his parents in a Texas tornado. After the burial of his father (his mother was never found) and the local bank calling in the marker on the land that the family house used to set on, Buster decides that it's time for him to start making his own way in life.  With an injured leg and a pair of crutches, he sets out on foot for town one morning in the middle of winter, hobbling his way step by step over the icy road.  By noon he's ready to call it quits and let the cold take over his worn-out body when a red wagon, drawn by eight mules and driven by a big colored man, pulls up alongside of him.  Old Albert, the driver, offers Buster a ride.  At first the owner of the wagon, trick-shooting-artist Billy Bob Daniels (he claims to be the illegitimate son of Wild Bill Hickok and is perhaps the fastest man alive with a gun), is against the kid coming along with them, but soon gives in begrudgingly to Albert's wishes.  And so begins Buster's journey of adventure and to becoming a man as he travels from town to town on the Magic Wagon with Albert, Billy Bob, the dead body of Wild Bill Hickok, and Rot Toe, the Wrestling Chimpanzee.  When they finally visit the small town of Mud Creek, the gunfighter known as Texas Jack Wentworth challenges Billy Bob to a shootout.  The outcome of that gun battle will have a dire affect on Buster's life and things will never be the same again for the young boy.  THE MAGIC WAGON is the perfect example of what great storytelling is all about.  It's filled with memorable characters (both good and bad) that leave a lasting impression.  There's humor and tragedy that carries the reader through the gamut of emotions.  Few scenes in a novel have affected me as strongly as the one where the tornado whips down onto Buster's home without warning, ripping the barn apart, driving a pitchfork into the chest of his father, and carrying the farmhouse away with his mother still in it.  There's also adventure here of the grandest sort.  When Old Albert tells Buster about how they came across the body of Wild Bill and almost died in the process, the reader is drawn skillfully into the scene, becoming one with it and experiencing the fear and distrust as everything unfolds into a battle of life and death.  Now, I don't know if there were really pistoliers in the old West that could shoot as good and fast as Billy Bob Daniels, but Mr. Lansdale had me believing there was.  I felt like a kid at a circus as Billy Bob shot small coins out of the air, split playing cards in half that were turned sideways, and fired a shot that drove a cork into a bottle, knocking out the bottom without shattering the neck.  The author also drew clear portraits of how the West really was with its dirty, cow-dung smelling towns, the false myths of dime-novel heroes, and the suddenness of violence and death.  Mr. Lansdale projected all of this with a style of writing I've come to know since reading his award-winning novel, THE BOTTOMS.  It's smooth, natural, alluring, and very down to earth, capturing the reader in a solid grip that even Rot Toe the Wrestling Chimpanzee couldn't break.  Stephen King once wrote that it's the story, not the teller of the story, that's most important.  I would put it another way and say that it takes an exceptional storyteller to first capture the attention of the reader or listener, and then from that point on the story takes over.  If Mr. Lansdale wanted to, he could easily take over the mantle of western writing that the late Louis L'Amour held for so many decades.  But, that would be too restricting for this wonderful author.  Mr. Lansdale wants to do it all, and as long as he keeps writing (and it doesn't matter what genre he chooses), I'll keep reading.nsdale projected all of this with a style of writing I've come to know since reading his award-winning novel, THE BOTTOMS.  It's smooth, natural, alluring, and very down to earth, capturing the reader in a solid grip that even Rot Toe the Wrestling Chimpanzee couldn't break.  Stephen King once wrote that it's the story, not the teller of the story, that's most important.  I would put it another way and say that it takes an exceptional storyteller to first capture the attention of the reader or listener, and then from that point on the story takes over.  If Mr. Lansdale wanted to, he could easily take over the mantle of western writing that the late Louis L'Amour held for so many decades.  But, that would be too restricting for this wonderful author.  Mr. Lansdale wants to do it all, and as long as he keeps writing (and it doesn't matter what genre he chooses), I'll keep reading.	2001-11-02
US	49187160	R1B3UVCMT03DBR	0843949279	113648001	The Infinite	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	THE FINAL NOVEL IN THE &quot;HARROW&quot; TRILOGY!!	THE INFINITE by Douglas Clegg is the final novel that makes up the trilogy (THE NIGHTMARE HOUSE &amp; MISCHIEF) of Harrow House.  Think of this particular book as a tribute to Shirley Jackson's THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE and Richard Matheson's HELL HOUSE.  The newest in the series continues a year or so after the burning of Harrow Academy--where MISCHIEF left off.  The house itself wasn't destroyed in the fire that took the lives of several students...only the sections that had been built on to it to accommodate the student population when it was turned into an academy.  Since the fire, Harrow House has claimed the life of a sixteen-year-old girl who died of a heart attack while she and her friends spent the night in it to see if the house was really haunted.  Now, Ivy Martin (the former girlfriend of Jim Hook's late brother in MISCHIEF) has purchased Harrow House and has spent a large sum of money to renovate the place in an effort to get it back to its original condition.  She has also hired a small team of psychics (Frost Crane, Chet Dillinger and Cali Nytbird), led by Jack Fleetwood, to investigate the powers of the house and hopefully to open a portal into the afterlife so that she can once again reunite with the person she loved so deeply.  All three of the psychics have their own personal problems and dark secrets to deal with, and this will have a direct bearing on what happens to them inside Harrow House.  Jack Fleetwood, who's in love with Ivy, is perhaps the most normal of the team-certainly the nicest.  Jack's albatross, however, is his teenage daughter, Mira, who has accompanied him to this mansion of darkness and death in order to get out of school for a week.  This will definitely be a vacation she won't soon forget.  Not one of these people suspects the danger that they're in as the house lures them into a state of complacency and then begins to gradually play upon their fears and weaknesses, until it's too late and the killing starts with a vengeance.  Prepare yourself for a high body count!  While not as tense and suspenseful as THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE, nor as violent and sexual as HELL HOUSE, Douglas Clegg's novel is still an excellent addition to the \\"haunted house\\" genre.  He creates a dark, morbid atmosphere within the confines of Harrow House, easing the reader forward to the evitable outcome of death and destruction.  Each of the characters is written with detail to the nuances that make us human, if not very likable.  Since the house is really the star of the novel, I wish Mr. Clegg hadn't spent the first 140 pages dealing with the history of the three psychics, but rather have started off the novel with their arrival at Harrow House and then filled in the background information as the story moved along.  More time could therefore have been spent inside the house where all of the fun actually takes place.  I loved the recorded history of Harrow House as presented in the diary of Estaban Palliser (a.k.a. Justin Gravesend) and in The Infinite Ones by Isis Claviger.  I found myself drawn into these two writings more deeply than I would've expected, wanting to learn in greater detail about the people mentioned (such as Matilde Gravesend and Aleister Crowley, as well as Crowley's wife, Rose Kelly, and his lover, Victor Neuburg).  I hope Mr. Clegg will one day present the complete text of Isis Claviger's book.  That would make a most intriguing story.  With a beautiful wrap-around dust jacket that has a terrific art design by Franco and a fabulous price, THE INFINITE by Douglas Clegg is a great buy and the perfect addition to your horror collection.e.  Prepare yourself for a high body count!  While not as tense and suspenseful as THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE, nor as violent and sexual as HELL HOUSE, Douglas Clegg's novel is still an excellent addition to the \\"haunted house\\" genre.  He creates a dark, morbid atmosphere within the confines of Harrow House, easing the reader forward to the evitable outcome of death and destruction.  Each of the characters is written with detail to the nuances that make us human, if not very likable.  Since the house is really the star of the novel, I wish Mr. Clegg hadn't spent the first 140 pages dealing with the history of the three psychics, but rather have started off the novel with their arrival at Harrow House and then filled in the background information as the story moved along.  More time could therefore have been spent inside the house where all of the fun actually takes place.  I loved the recorded history of Harrow House as presented in the diary of Estaban Palliser (a.k.a. Justin Gravesend) and in The Infinite Ones by Isis Claviger.  I found myself drawn into these two writings more deeply than I would've expected, wanting to learn in greater detail about the people mentioned (such as Matilde Gravesend and Aleister Crowley, as well as Crowley's wife, Rose Kelly, and his lover, Victor Neuburg).  I hope Mr. Clegg will one day present the complete text of Isis Claviger's book.  That would make a most intriguing story.  With a beautiful wrap-around dust jacket that has a terrific art design by Franco and a fabulous price, THE INFINITE by Douglas Clegg is a great buy and the perfect addition to your horror collection.	2001-10-31
US	49187160	RQYGEP6PS5Y83	0446608823	838242699	Freezer Burn	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A HILARIOUS NOVEL ABOUT ADULTERY AND MURDER!!!	First, let me talk for a moment about the writings of Joe R. Lansdale.  I'm now totally addicted to this remarkable East Texas author.  I think his novel, THE BOTTOMS, is one of the true masterpieces of modern American literature.  I love the \\"Hap/Leonard\\" series and could read a new novel about these two hilarious and utterly heroic characters every week, if Mr. Lansdale could write the books fast enough.  I've read his novellas THE BOAR and THE BIG BLOW and have wondered why a mainstream publisher didn't pick up these two great little books.  I've also read his children's story, SOMETHING LUMBER THIS WAY COMES.  So far, I've enjoyed every piece of writing by him that I have read.  FREEZER BURN is no exception.  Though certainly different from the above books, it nevertheless is pure Lansdale at his best.  This is the story of Bill Roberts, a low life who simply doesn't know any better.  He's been living with his dominating mother for a long time, and when she finally dies, he decides to keep her body in the bedroom so that her social security checks will continue to come in.  The only problem with the plan is that Bill is unable to successfully forge her signature on the checks.  So, with a handful of checks he's unable to cash, a raucous smell permeating the house, and a couple of cans of beets in the kitchen cabinet left to eat, Bill makes the less-than-lucid decision to rob the firecracker stand across the street on the fourth of July with the help of two equally stupid acquaintances, Fat Boy and Chaplin.  Like everything else in Bill's life, the robbery goes terribly wrong.  The owner of the firecracker stand is murdered and then Fat Boy (he encounters a nest of water moccasins in the swamp!!!!) and Chaplin are killed in the getaway.  Bill hides out in the Bottoms for a day or so, feeding the mosquitoes with his face, avoiding the poisonous snakes, and praying the law doesn't catch up with him.  When he eventually comes out of hiding, he sees a carnival in a nearby field and goes to them for help.  The owner of carnival, Jack Frost, takes Bill in and allows him to stay until he's completely healed from the mosquito bites, and then offers him a job.  This carnival is special.  It's filled with freaks: Conrad the Dog Man, U.S. Grant the Bearded Lady, the two-head Buckwheat, pin heads and punk heads, midgets, and the Ice Man.  Even Frost has a hand growing out of his chest.  The only other normal person (except for a couple of nasty roustabouts) besides Bill is Gidget, the wife of Jack Frost.  Gidget-blonde, beautiful, sexy, and as deadly as one of those cottonmouths in the Bottoms-is every husband's worse nightmare.  Over a period of weeks, Bill gradually begins to see Frost and some of the other freaks in the carnival as human beings, but it isn't his destiny to be a nice guy.  Gidget has other ideas for him.  It isn't long before she seduces Bill with her body and talks him into helping her kill Frost so that they can take over the carnival.  Of course, like Bill's other endeavors, the plan to kill Gidget's husband will have its drawbacks and pitfalls, and nothing will turn out quite as he expects.  FREEZER BURN is definitely not for everyone.  I think the reader has to have a rather bizarre sense of humor and a willingness to allow the author to take him/her down a path that may seem somewhat weird to the average person, yet is actually a journey about life and what it means to be different, not to mention what goes around, comes around.  This novel is Mr. Lansdale's homage to James M. Cain's THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, using the themes of lust, adultery, and murder, only with a slightly different twist.  Though funny from beginning to end (yes, I have a rather bizarre sense of humor about life), this novel is also filled with poignant insights into how people treat those who are different.  I also think that Mr. Lansdale is a firm believer in karma.  When people do bad things, it always comes back to bite them in the butt sooner or later.  I will say that the finale of FREEZER BURN is a downer; yet, I don't see how the author could've ended it differently.  The story could only have one final outcome and still remain true to the very nature of who Bill Roberts and Gidget Frost actually are.  If you're looking for a happy ending, this isn't the book to read.  If, however, you're looking for a book that will shock you, tickle your funny bone, and make you think about prejudice in all of its sad and unhealthy forms, then this is the one to buy.he butt sooner or later.  I will say that the finale of FREEZER BURN is a downer; yet, I don't see how the author could've ended it differently.  The story could only have one final outcome and still remain true to the very nature of who Bill Roberts and Gidget Frost actually are.  If you're looking for a happy ending, this isn't the book to read.  If, however, you're looking for a book that will shock you, tickle your funny bone, and make you think about prejudice in all of its sad and unhealthy forms, then this is the one to buy.	2001-10-22
US	49187160	R3D9XYE2UPFEOG	0892967285	393036276	Captains Outrageous: A Hap Collins and Leonard Pine Novel	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	THIS GREAT SERIES KEEPS GETTING BETTER AND BETTER!!!	In CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS-the newest in the \\"Hap Collins/Leonard Pine\\" series-Joe R. Lansdale once again proves that he has no equal in the field of writing in the great state of Texas.  He is to Texas what Stephen King is to Maine.  Both authors have a particular style of writing that appeals to the \\"everyman\\" in its simplicity, yet forceful and soul-searching deliverance.  If Mysterious Press/Warner Books put more money into promoting Mr. Lansdale's novels here in the United States, they would definitely have a New York Times best selling author on their hands.  As it is, the world still hasn't  discovered what a major storyteller and master craftsman this East Texas writer really is.<br />In this novel, the hilarious, dysfunctional, butt-kicking duo of Hap and Leonard return for another outing of outrageous bantering, not to mention going the distance to help those who are in trouble.  Hap and Leonard (think Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson) are now security guards in a chicken processing plant.  One night after work, while walking to his truck, Hap hears a desperate cry for help.  He sees a man stomping the living daylights out a girl near the trees that border the plant and quickly goes to her rescue.  Jumping a chain-link fence like an avenging angel, Hap charges the guy and swiftly finds himself in a fight to the death, using everything he's been taught in the martial arts to put this psycho down.  After Hap saves the life of the young girl, her father (he happens to be the owner of the chicken plant) rewards him with the gift of a hundred thousand dollars.  Accepting the money against his better judgment, Hap decides to take a vacation with his buddy, Leonard.  They sign on for a cheap cruise down to Mexico and the Caribbean.  As usual, Leonard's mouth gets them into trouble on the boat, and they eventually find themselves stranded in a place called Playa Del Carmen.  When a group of muggers from a bordering town attack our two heroes with knives and a machete, wounding Leonard in the process, an old fisherman comes to their rescue.  The fisherman and his daughter, Beatrice, allow Hap and Leonard to recuperate at their home.  While Leonard is recovering from his knife wound, the fisherman's daughter uses sex to lure Hap into helping her scam a local mobster.  Things, however, don't go quite the way Beatrice expects.  Her actions lead to death on a major scale, and it follows Hap and Leonard back to Texas in the form of a giant killer named Hammerhead, who likes to skin people alive and then cut their hands and feet off.  A close friend of the duo will be murdered because of what happened in Mexico.  From that point on the name of the game is revenge for our boys.  Hap and Leonard, with the help of Jim Bob Luke, will return to Mexico to take out the mobster and his henchman.  A lot of people are going to die before the ending of this novel is reached; and, if Hap has his way, he's going to be the one doing the killing!<br />CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS had me laughing and crying.  Never was a novel funnier; yet, at the same time, sadder.  The violence is intense, and a lot of good people die this time around.  Mr. Lansdale's prose is \\"mojo\\" writing at its best, capturing the pure essence that breathes life into Hap and Leonard, holding the reader within its tight grasp from the first page to the last.  These are guys that will put their lives on the line time and time again to help others, risking everything to right a wrong and to bring a little justice into this mixed-up world.  Even the secondary characters (Jim Bob Luke, Veil, Charlie Blank, Marvin Hanson, Beatrice and her father, Ferdinand, Brett Sawyer, and the Mexican mobster, Juan Miguel) are written with the same precise detail and strength as the primary ones.  The twists and turns are more numerous than ever, offering surprises for the reader every few pages.  CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS isn't just a novel; it's a grand adventure with two guys who love each other as brothers and who are heroes in the strongest sense of the word.  This book will run you through the gamut of emotions, leaving you with an avid feeling of being alive and that the world isn't such a bad place after all.  I can't thank Joe R. Lansdale enough for the books he's written, including this fabulous series about friendship, love, honor, and a willingness to put your life on the line for what you feel is right. I have to admit to a certain degree of sadness, knowing that it may be two years or longer before the next book in the series comes out.  As I stated in a previous review, I only wish that Mr. Lansdale could write a \\"Hap and Leonard\\" book every year, along with one of his stand-alone novels.  It's hard saying goodbye to friends like this for a lengthy period of time.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!and who are heroes in the strongest sense of the word.  This book will run you through the gamut of emotions, leaving you with an avid feeling of being alive and that the world isn't such a bad place after all.  I can't thank Joe R. Lansdale enough for the books he's written, including this fabulous series about friendship, love, honor, and a willingness to put your life on the line for what you feel is right. I have to admit to a certain degree of sadness, knowing that it may be two years or longer before the next book in the series comes out.  As I stated in a previous review, I only wish that Mr. Lansdale could write a \\"Hap and Leonard\\" book every year, along with one of his stand-alone novels.  It's hard saying goodbye to friends like this for a lengthy period of time.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2001-10-14
US	49187160	R2KH2FSWFVB4O0	0440235391	322161447	Darkest Fear: A Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	THIS MADE ME AN INSTANT FAN OF THE &quot;MYRON BOLITAR&quot; SERIES!!!	DARKEST FEAR by Harlan Coben is not only the newest \\"Myron Bolitar\\" novel, but also the first in the series that I've read.  I got hooked on Mr. Coben's writing when I read his newest hardcover, TELL NO ONE, which knocked me right out of my little white bobby socks.  It was so good that I decided to go back and read his previous novels, all of which center around ex-basketball player, now sports agent and sometimes private detective, Myron Bolitar.  Since I tend to start backwards when beginning a new series, I naturally picked DARKEST FEAR to read first.  So, go figure.  Anyway, in this novel Myron discovers that he's a father.  It seems that on the night before his ex-girlfriend, Emily Browning, was to marry his college basketball rival, he and she did the two-bear mambo (uh, sorry, Joe!), and the son she produced was a product of his genes, rather than that of her new husband's.  Though a little shocked and surprised, Myron finds that he can deal with it.  The problem, however, is that Emily's son, Jeremy, is slowly dying from a disease called Fanconi anemia and desperately needs a bone marrow transplant to live.  A donor, who was a perfect match for the transplant was found, but then suddenly disappeared.  Emily wants Myron to track down the missing donor. Enlisting the aid of his closest buddy, Windsor Horne Lockwood (\\"Win\\" for short), plus long-time friends Esperanza Diaz, Big Cyndi, and Zorra, Myron begins the hunt for the man who could save his son's life.  What should be a relative breeze in the park for this gang of amateur sleuths turns into something deadly serious when the \\"Sow the Seeds\\" serial killer comes out of hiding to warn Myron off.  Exactly what a serial killer has to do with a bone marrow donor is a question Myron intends on answering.  If that isn't enough, he's also being stonewalled by the Lex family (billionaires who guard their privacy with extreme measures) and warned to desist in his attempt to locate a missing family member.  Myron certainly has his work cut out for him, but with Jeremy's life hanging in the balance, he's not about to let anybody get in his way or prevent him from finding the donor.  He'll do whatever it takes to save his son.  I have to admit that DARKEST FEAR really surprised me.  I wasn't the least bit sure that I'd enjoy it.  Instead, I found myself hooked in the first chapter or two, curious as to where the story was leading, enjoying the character of Myron Bolitar, along with his wild bunch of cohorts.  Mr. Coben kept me guessing right up till the end with his meandering twists and turns-first going in one direction, then switching gears and heading in an entirely different direction.  I have to say that the character of Win came pretty close to stealing the show.  He's definitely someone I want to find out more about.  Maybe it has to do with his martial arts ability, or possibly his inability to take anything seriously.  Whatever it is, I'm drawn to this rather unusual character.  I'm also happy to say that sports has very little to do with the story.  If your lack of interest in sports has been the only thing holding you back from reading a \\"Myron Bolitar\\" novel, then forget about it and pick up this book or one of the others in the series.  The writing is excellent, the plot holds you in its vice-like grip till the last page, and the characters are some of the most unusual ones that I've ever encountered in the \\"mystery\\" genre.  I'm already trying to decide whether to read THE FINAL DETAIL or ONE FALSE MOVE next.tainly has his work cut out for him, but with Jeremy's life hanging in the balance, he's not about to let anybody get in his way or prevent him from finding the donor.  He'll do whatever it takes to save his son.  I have to admit that DARKEST FEAR really surprised me.  I wasn't the least bit sure that I'd enjoy it.  Instead, I found myself hooked in the first chapter or two, curious as to where the story was leading, enjoying the character of Myron Bolitar, along with his wild bunch of cohorts.  Mr. Coben kept me guessing right up till the end with his meandering twists and turns-first going in one direction, then switching gears and heading in an entirely different direction.  I have to say that the character of Win came pretty close to stealing the show.  He's definitely someone I want to find out more about.  Maybe it has to do with his martial arts ability, or possibly his inability to take anything seriously.  Whatever it is, I'm drawn to this rather unusual character.  I'm also happy to say that sports has very little to do with the story.  If your lack of interest in sports has been the only thing holding you back from reading a \\"Myron Bolitar\\" novel, then forget about it and pick up this book or one of the others in the series.  The writing is excellent, the plot holds you in its vice-like grip till the last page, and the characters are some of the most unusual ones that I've ever encountered in the \\"mystery\\" genre.  I'm already trying to decide whether to read THE FINAL DETAIL or ONE FALSE MOVE next.	2001-09-26
US	49187160	R2RMXO6NEQWQW7	0843945672	817476213	Eyes of Prey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AN EXCELLENT SEQUEL TO &quot;HUNGRY EYES&quot;	The second novel in the \\"Eyes\\" series by Barry Hoffman is EYES OF PREY.  This novel is to HUNGRY EYES what SALEM'S LOT was to CARRIE.  It's longer, more detailed, delves deeper into what makes the characters tick, has a number of returning characters from the first novel, and touches somewhat on the supernatural.  This time around the story deals with Lysette Ormandy (a.k.a. Cassandra Knight) who was almost beaten to death as a child, while she watched her family being murdered.  Now, Lysette's a stripper in Philadelphia and performs under the persona of her assumed name.  One night while riding home on the subway, she watches as a mugger pistol-whips an old man for his wallet.  Remembering how her family was killed, she recklessly intervenes to help the victim, snatching the gun away from the surprised mugger and then shooting him in the head when he tries to knife her.  Believing that the police will arrest Lysette for homicide, the old man tells her to run.  It isn't long, however, before Lysette is considered to be a hero by the good citizens of Philadelphia.  The police, led by Lamar Briggs and assisted by Deidre Caffrey, want her to voluntarily come in, but something changed within Lysette the night she killed the mugger.  She's tired of being a victim and wants to be able to walk the streets at night without fear of being attacked.  This leads her to doing what Charles Bronson did in the movie Death Wish--she begins patrolling the streets and playgrounds, killing only when attacked by the night predators.  She's soon nicknamed the Nightwatcher, a protector of the people...a woman who isn't going to be intimidated by the muggers and rapists.  Soon, the people of the city are rallying against crime and are attempting to take back the streets for their families and children.  The police aren't happy with this.  They're afraid innocent bystanders are going to be killed before it's over. An all out effort is made to track down the Nightwatcher, but someone else is also looking for her.  Feeling connected to this new vigilante in some mysterious way, Shara Farris has returned to the city of brotherly love, instinctively understanding that she's the only one who can find her.  EYES OF PREYS takes this remarkable series to a new level of intensity and excitement.  Mr. Hoffman delivers in full force, offering us a slightly different take on the usual \\"vigilante\\" format, mixed with subtle supernatural overtones.  He gives us a darker, more complex lead character in the form of Lysette Ormandy, while at the same time, fleshing out the returning characters of Deidre Caffrey and Lamar Briggs in much greater detail.  There's even a secret organization called \\"The Fist\\" that's made up of several extremely rich and powerful men, who seek to control the status quo by manipulating events to their own satisfaction, resorting to murder and assassination when necessary.  If that isn't enough, there's also an unusual area of woodland near the beach that Lysette likes to frequent in order to relax and calm down from the stress of her rather unusual activities.  It's a small forest where strange things seem to happen to those who walk through it.  In EYES OF PREY, Barry Hoffman has weaved a delicious morality tale of revenge and redemption, mixed with edge-of-your-seat suspense that keeps the reader turning the pages at a frantic pace, hurrying to find out what happens next, not to mention an array of strong female characters who aren't afraid to take the matter of justice into their own capable hands.  I'm anxious to read JUDAS EYES and discover in what the direction the series is now headed.  I sincerely hope Mr. Hoffman will further explorer \\"The Fist\\" in his future novels.  Not only is this is an organization that I want to learn more about, but because of the way it's described, I can't help but wonder if there's an element of truth behind this deadly entity.  Anyway, if you want some good bedtime reading, picked up a copy of EYES OF PREY, then check out Mr. Hoffman's other novels, HUNGRY EYES and BORN BAD., then check out Mr. Hoffman's other novels, HUNGRY EYES and BORN BAD.	2001-09-24
US	49187160	R39O6N81M798Y2	0446404314	813744810	Savage Season	Books	4	19	20	N	N	THE PERFECT INTRODUCTION TO A FANTASTIC SERIES!!!	SAVAGE SEASON by Joe R. Lansdale is the first novel in the \\"Hap Collins/Leonard Pine\\" series and clearly demonstrates the path to be taken by these utterly outrageous, yet definably noble characters.  As the novel starts out, Hap and Leonard are doing okay.  They have steady jobs in the rose fields and are taking a day off to shoot some skeet in the field behind Hap's house.  Yep, everything is going pretty good until trouble walks around the corner of the house in the form of Trudy (Hap's ex-wife).  Now, I don't know if Mr. Lansdale ever met my ex-girlfriend, but his description of Trudy fits her like a tight pair of spandex pants.  Every time Trudy steps back into Hap's life and then leaves him again, it takes several months for him to recover.  Needless to say, Leonard hates this lady for the way she treats his best friend.  Anyway, Trudy has what appears to be a sweet deal for her loving ex-husband.  It seems that one of her other ex-husbands, Howard, was in jail with a man who'd helped to rob a bank of one million dollars.  All of the bank robber's cohorts were killed during or after the crime, and he almost bought the farm himself when he crashed his getaway boat into a submerged tree stump somewhere along the Sabine River.  The money was never recovered, and the bank robber got life in prison.  He gave Howard a general location of where he thought the sunken boat might be, hoping that if Howard were able to find the money, he'd share some of it with him to make his stay in prison a little easier.  Since Hap knows the Sabine River like the back of his hand (well, maybe not quite that good), Trudy enlists Hap's help in locating the boat, offering him $200,000.00 for his services.  Knowing Trudy as well as he does, Hap immediately gets Leonard to join in so that they can watch each other's backs.  It isn't long before our East Texan duo find themselves caught in the middle of a betrayal that surprises neither one of them.  The only real question is whether or not they will live long enough to see who actually ends up with the money.  SAVAGE SEASON, though not as long or rich in detail as the other novels in the series, is still a fun, fast-paced read.  The bantering and interaction between Hap and Leonard is what hooks you into this fantastic series.  These two characters come alive in ways that other authors should take a look at.  There's a lot to be learned here.  Also, this novel offers a good deal of background information on both Hap and Leonard.  This is stuff I didn't know because I started reading the series from the middle, then worked forward, and finally finished with the first novel, when I should've started with it to begin with.  This sounds like something Hap and Leonard would do.  Anyway, I enjoyed finding out why Hap had gone to prison as a young adult, how Trudy came into his life (she's referred to in a number of the other books), how he and Leonard met, and Leonard's background as a Vietnam vet.  This information filled in a lot of blanks for me.  For me, Mr. Lansdale's prose was smoothly written, offering a glimpse of how he would later develop into the author that he is today.  All in all, this was an excellent read for me, and I was sorry to have the story end.  I can't thank Joe R. Lansdale enough for this fabulous series.  I only wish that he could write a \\"Hap/Leonard\\" book every year, while also doing his stand-alone novels.  I hope that one of the novels in this series will eventually be done as a movie with Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson in the roles of Hap and Leonard.  That would be the dessert after a delicious three-course meal!!t they will live long enough to see who actually ends up with the money.  SAVAGE SEASON, though not as long or rich in detail as the other novels in the series, is still a fun, fast-paced read.  The bantering and interaction between Hap and Leonard is what hooks you into this fantastic series.  These two characters come alive in ways that other authors should take a look at.  There's a lot to be learned here.  Also, this novel offers a good deal of background information on both Hap and Leonard.  This is stuff I didn't know because I started reading the series from the middle, then worked forward, and finally finished with the first novel, when I should've started with it to begin with.  This sounds like something Hap and Leonard would do.  Anyway, I enjoyed finding out why Hap had gone to prison as a young adult, how Trudy came into his life (she's referred to in a number of the other books), how he and Leonard met, and Leonard's background as a Vietnam vet.  This information filled in a lot of blanks for me.  For me, Mr. Lansdale's prose was smoothly written, offering a glimpse of how he would later develop into the author that he is today.  All in all, this was an excellent read for me, and I was sorry to have the story end.  I can't thank Joe R. Lansdale enough for this fabulous series.  I only wish that he could write a \\"Hap/Leonard\\" book every year, while also doing his stand-alone novels.  I hope that one of the novels in this series will eventually be done as a movie with Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson in the roles of Hap and Leonard.  That would be the dessert after a delicious three-course meal!!	2001-09-17
US	49187160	R36V9CJOP86RJX	0446401889	333894543	The Two-Bear Mambo	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A TOWN'S PURE EVIL ALMOST KILLS OUR TWO HEROES!!!!	THE TWO-BEAR MAMBO by Joe R. Lansdale continues the saga of Hap Collins and Leonard Pine where MUCHO MOJO left off.  It starts out with Hap arriving at Leonard's house on Christmas Eve night.  Blasting out of his friend's home is the music to \\"The Ballad of Davy Crockett\\" and Leonard is next door, kicking righteous butt and burning down the neighborhood crack house once again.  The police pull Hap and Leonard in, but Lieutenant Marvin Hanson gets them off the hook, provided they do him a small favor.  It seems that Hap's old girlfriend, Florida Grange (the one who left him for Hanson) took off to Grovetown, Texas to do an article on a black musician who supposedly hung himself while in the custody of the local police.  Florida has suddenly vanished, and Hanson wants Hap and Leonard to pay a visit to Grovetown to see if they can find out anything.  The only problem is that this particular Texas town is right out of the fifties and sixties.  It's a viper's nest filled with Klansmen, led by Jackson Brown, who enjoy murdering the black folks and seem to be getting away with it.  Both Hap and Leonard know that they're going to have their hands full just trying to stay alive as they attempt to investigate Florida's disappearance.  Even together, as tough as they are, both men are going to find out that they've bitten off more than they can chew when they take on the populace of Grovetown.  They'll find themselves in the middle of free-for-all that would put Billy Jack to shame and come very close to getting beaten to death.  Both men will discover true fear for the first time in their lives and have to find a way of dealing with it as their injuries heal, if they want to be able to face each other again, as well as solve the mystery of what happened to Florida when they eventually return to Grovetown to face the evil of its people.  THE TWO-BEAR MAMBO will give you a slightly different perspective of our two heroes this time around, making them more flawed and human.  As tough as Hap and Leonard are, they're not invincible, and both of them come very close to death as they seek to right a wrong.  They will find out things about themselves that will at first be difficult to face; yet, in the long run will make them stronger.  Though a part of me knows that these two characters are fictional, the writing is so good that another part of me almost believes that they're real.  These are guys that I'd simply love to hang out with, and it's a tribute to the talent of Joe R. Lansdale that he's created such believable characters...characters who are funny, skilled martial artists, almost always unemployed, who have the same kinds of problems with relationships that real people do, and who have a strong sense of honor and justice that gets them into trouble more often than not.  Mr. Lansdale is able to do this because he has a unique skill in writing that comes off as being natural and down to earth, but is actually a master craftsman at work.  He knows how to make each and every character in the novel come alive in ways I wish other authors could emulate.  I never know how each book is going to end; and, quite often, I find myself stunned by who gets killed off.  As you can probably tell, the \\"Hap Collins/Leonard Pine\\" series has swept me off of my feet in a way that few other books have, and it's one I can highly recommend to any reader who loves novels filled with action, humor, self-reflection, and characters that make you truly believe.  I honestly don't know what I'm going to do after I read SAVAGE SEASON and then CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS.  I wish I could sit down with Hap and Leonard, have a beer, and talk about this particular problem.  Of course, I wouldn't get any sympathy from them.  In fact, I'd probably have to spend an hour or more listening to their problems!!tough as Hap and Leonard are, they're not invincible, and both of them come very close to death as they seek to right a wrong.  They will find out things about themselves that will at first be difficult to face; yet, in the long run will make them stronger.  Though a part of me knows that these two characters are fictional, the writing is so good that another part of me almost believes that they're real.  These are guys that I'd simply love to hang out with, and it's a tribute to the talent of Joe R. Lansdale that he's created such believable characters...characters who are funny, skilled martial artists, almost always unemployed, who have the same kinds of problems with relationships that real people do, and who have a strong sense of honor and justice that gets them into trouble more often than not.  Mr. Lansdale is able to do this because he has a unique skill in writing that comes off as being natural and down to earth, but is actually a master craftsman at work.  He knows how to make each and every character in the novel come alive in ways I wish other authors could emulate.  I never know how each book is going to end; and, quite often, I find myself stunned by who gets killed off.  As you can probably tell, the \\"Hap Collins/Leonard Pine\\" series has swept me off of my feet in a way that few other books have, and it's one I can highly recommend to any reader who loves novels filled with action, humor, self-reflection, and characters that make you truly believe.  I honestly don't know what I'm going to do after I read SAVAGE SEASON and then CAPTAINS OUTRAGEOUS.  I wish I could sit down with Hap and Leonard, have a beer, and talk about this particular problem.  Of course, I wouldn't get any sympathy from them.  In fact, I'd probably have to spend an hour or more listening to their problems!!	2001-09-12
US	49187160	R1RIS20QHWLDYZ	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A RIVETING THRILLER OF VIOLENCE AND SUSPENSE!!!	John Connolly's debut novel, EVERY DEAD THING, is the story of former NYPD detective Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker, a man who has experienced tragedy as few other people have.  While still a homicide detective and an alcoholic, he had a fight with his wife one night and left the house in anger.  He stopped in at the local pub, got drunk, and then returned home several hours late to find that his wife and young daughter had been skinned alive by a madman.  At first a suspect for the killing of his own family, Parker's alibi holds up, but in time he is nevertheless forced to leave the police department.  He stops drinking and makes it his life ambition to track down the man who slaughtered his wife and daughter.  Clues lead him to New Orleans where an old voodoo woman tells him about a serial killer known as the Traveling Man.  This is the person Parker has been searching for.  The Traveling Man has killed countless times and will certainly kill again, unless someone puts a stake through his evil heart.  In the meantime, Parker is asked by a former colleague to track down a missing person...a woman who's younger sister was murdered by a serial killer years before.  The case leads Parker to Haven, Virginia and puts him on the trail of an atrocious murderer who's been killing children for over thirty years.  Parker will soon discover that this animal knows the identity of the person who killed his family.  Eventually, Parker will head back to Louisiana and-caught in the middle of a bloodbath between two rivaling mobsters-face the Traveling Man in final confrontation of life and death.  EVERY DEAD THING is a thick novel of intricate structure, combining three plots that are interconnected with each other.  The first deals with Parker's quest for revenge as he hunts down the Traveling Man, while the second branches off into a journey of utter darkness and abomination, beginning with the disappearance of Catherine Demeter and leading to a monster who gains unimaginable pleasure by torturing and killing little children.  The third plot deals with Parker's eventual involvement with the New Orleans' mob and how it ties in with his search for the Traveling Man.  Complex in scope and underlying subplots, EVERY DEAD THING will not only shock and surprise you, but will also ask you to think about the very nature of evil and its place in our society.  This is definitely not a novel for the lighthearted or squeamish.  It's filled with an abundance of violence and death as well as an array of richly drawn characters that reek of unadulterated evil and will terrify you with their utter believability.  Even the heroes (Charlie Parker and his friends, Angel and Louis) are touched by a certain degree of darkness.  They're not saints fighting for the goodness of mankind, but are rather killers who are more than willing to do whatever it takes to rid the world of these soulless individuals.  John Connolly has written a powerful novel that is entertaining, thought provoking, and truly frightening.  It will leave you wondering about the hundreds of human monsters that hide within our midst, hoping that there are men like Charlie Parker who aren't afraid to take these creatures down the hard way.  For those of you who enjoy the works of Thomas Harris and James Patterson, pick up a copy of EVERY DEAD THING.  After you finish reading it, I guarantee that you'll rush to get the other two books (DARK HOLLOW &amp; THE KILLING KIND) in the \\"Charlie Parker\\" series.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.torturing and killing little children.  The third plot deals with Parker's eventual involvement with the New Orleans' mob and how it ties in with his search for the Traveling Man.  Complex in scope and underlying subplots, EVERY DEAD THING will not only shock and surprise you, but will also ask you to think about the very nature of evil and its place in our society.  This is definitely not a novel for the lighthearted or squeamish.  It's filled with an abundance of violence and death as well as an array of richly drawn characters that reek of unadulterated evil and will terrify you with their utter believability.  Even the heroes (Charlie Parker and his friends, Angel and Louis) are touched by a certain degree of darkness.  They're not saints fighting for the goodness of mankind, but are rather killers who are more than willing to do whatever it takes to rid the world of these soulless individuals.  John Connolly has written a powerful novel that is entertaining, thought provoking, and truly frightening.  It will leave you wondering about the hundreds of human monsters that hide within our midst, hoping that there are men like Charlie Parker who aren't afraid to take these creatures down the hard way.  For those of you who enjoy the works of Thomas Harris and James Patterson, pick up a copy of EVERY DEAD THING.  After you finish reading it, I guarantee that you'll rush to get the other two books (DARK HOLLOW &amp; THE KILLING KIND) in the \\"Charlie Parker\\" series.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2001-09-10
US	49187160	RYM40979RTLJS	0345433483	619026162	Irresistible (Conrad Voort Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	THIS IS EVERY MAN'S IDEA OF THE PERFECT DATE!!!	The second in the Conrad Voort series of novels by Ethan Black is IRRESISTIBLE, and this is even better than THE BROKEN HEARTS CLUB.  Of course, I have a thing for female serial killers, and the one in this book definitely gets the heart pounding!  Nora Clay was gang-raped at a young teen by the sons of the most respectable families in her hometown.  The incident was covered up in lieu of the families making restitution to Nora and her mother.  Nora became pregnant from the tragedy and had to have an abortion that would leave her sterile for the rest of her life.  As an adult and as a series of circumstances begin to unfold, Nora decides to seek revenge against the fathers of several aborted children in the New York City area, luring them like a black widow spider with sexual seduction, consummating the act, then killing them with extreme prejudice and violence.  When sex crimes detective Conrad Voort is called in to investigate the first murder, he discovers a messageI know youwritten on the bedroom wall of the victim in a black magic marker.  He isnt sure if the message is meant for him or someone else.  It isnt long, however, before a second and third murder occurs.  As Voort and his partner, Mickie Connor, try to find a pattern with the killings, hes draw back into a partial relationship with Camilla Ryan, the woman who was once the love of his life and who was also friends with the first victim, while juggling a relationship with another woman who just might be pregnant.  Voort definitely has his work cut out for him this time around; but, to make matters even worse, what he doesnt know is that his name is on the killers list of potential victims.  When Nora Clay decides to strike, he wont even know in what the direction the danger is coming from.  IRRESISTIBLE is a taut, edge-of-your-seat thriller that grabs you in the first chapter (think of the opening scenes in the movie, Basic Instinct!).  After two novels, Im beginning to like the character of Conrad Voort, though I have to admit to being a little jealous of his heritage, wealth, good looks, his skills as a police officer, and his ability to attract the beautiful ladies.  Still, hes a nice guy who always tries to do the right thing.  Mr. Black knows how to tell a good story and keep the suspense building, without giving too much away.  The characters are realistically drawn with their own individual quirks, demonstrating that most people are a mixture of subtle grays, rather than being either black or white with regards to their good and bad qualities.  Even Voort, from a mans point of view, seems to have it made; yet, hes unable to sustain a long-term relationship with the opposite sex, no matter how hards he tries.  IRRESISTIBLE clearly shows that Ethan Black is getting better and better with each succeeding novel, and Im now considering whether or not to buy in newest book, ALL THE DEAD WERE STRANGERS, in hardcover, rather than waiting for the paperback edition to come out.  I dont think I want to wait a year to read it.ng to like the character of Conrad Voort, though I have to admit to being a little jealous of his heritage, wealth, good looks, his skills as a police officer, and his ability to attract the beautiful ladies.  Still, hes a nice guy who always tries to do the right thing.  Mr. Black knows how to tell a good story and keep the suspense building, without giving too much away.  The characters are realistically drawn with their own individual quirks, demonstrating that most people are a mixture of subtle grays, rather than being either black or white with regards to their good and bad qualities.  Even Voort, from a mans point of view, seems to have it made; yet, hes unable to sustain a long-term relationship with the opposite sex, no matter how hards he tries.  IRRESISTIBLE clearly shows that Ethan Black is getting better and better with each succeeding novel, and Im now considering whether or not to buy in newest book, ALL THE DEAD WERE STRANGERS, in hardcover, rather than waiting for the paperback edition to come out.  I dont think I want to wait a year to read it.	2001-09-04
US	49187160	R1T5HA75IWG775	0446401870	945250241	Mucho Mojo	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE EXPLOSIVE DUO HAS THEIR HANDS FULL IN THIS ONE!!!!	The second novel in the &quot;Hap Collins/Leonard Pine&quot; series by Joe R. Lansdale is MUCHO MOJO. The title basically translates into &quot;very bad magic&quot; or &quot;evil,&quot; while the story itself deals with the actual evil that human beings are capable of perpetrating. The novel begins when Leonard's Uncle Chester passes away and leaves his house and a hundred thousand dollars to his nephew. Leonard decides to stay in his late uncle's house in order to fix it up and talks Hap into moving in with him to help with the repairs. Everything is running smoothly until they rip up some old floorboards and discover a trunk beneath the house that has the bones of a murdered child in it, along with magazines of kiddy porn. At first they think that Uncle Chester was the culprit who killed the child, but as they probe deeper into the mystery it soon becomes apparent that LaBorde, Texas has a serial killer living within its midst...a person who is still alive and has been killing children for the last nine years. If that isn't enough, next door to Leonard's new home is a crack house, occupied by drug dealers who don't particularly like their new neighbors, but do like selling drugs to kids. This has all of the makings of a keg of black powder ready to explode; and, when it does, you definitely don't want to be on the receiving end of Hap and Leonard's anger! Needless to say, the East Texas duo will have their hands full as they do battle on two different fronts, taking names, kicking butt, and driving stakes into the hearts of the human monsters that are killing LaBorde's children. MUCHO MOJO delivers the same powerful kick of fun and entertainment as the other books in this utterly addictive series, but there's much more to this novel than meets the eye. Hap and Leonard have dealt with bad people and bad situations throughout most of their lives. This time around, however, they get a taste of what pure evil is like and have to question their own belief system about life, God, and the nature of being human. Neither one of them will come away untouched by what they encounter, knowing deep within themselves that sometimes people become evil by the circumstances of their lives, while others are simply born that way. Whatever the reasons, these are dangerous predators that have to be taken out the hard way, even if it means becoming judge, jury, and executioner. Mr. Lansdale's writing is as smooth as melted butter being poured on hot popcorn, his skill at creating believable dialogue is matched only by Elmore Leonard and Stephen King, and his unique ability to weave a suspenseful story line with characters that live and breath the East Texas air is simply unmatched. Pick up any of the &quot;Hap Collins/Leonard Pine&quot; novels, and you will quickly find yourself addicted to the writings of this remarkable author. This is the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for readers searching for that special kind of writer who, not only entertains us, but also causes us to think and question our own day-to-day living. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!life, God, and the nature of being human. Neither one of them will come away untouched by what they encounter, knowing deep within themselves that sometimes people become evil by the circumstances of their lives, while others are simply born that way. Whatever the reasons, these are dangerous predators that have to be taken out the hard way, even if it means becoming judge, jury, and executioner. Mr. Lansdale's writing is as smooth as melted butter being poured on hot popcorn, his skill at creating believable dialogue is matched only by Elmore Leonard and Stephen King, and his unique ability to weave a suspenseful story line with characters that live and breath the East Texas air is simply unmatched. Pick up any of the &quot;Hap Collins/Leonard Pine&quot; novels, and you will quickly find yourself addicted to the writings of this remarkable author. This is the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for readers searching for that special kind of writer who, not only entertains us, but also causes us to think and question our own day-to-day living. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2001-09-03
US	49187160	R19MI4I7G89ILP	0446607576	748599358	Rumble Tumble	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE &quot;HAP COLLINS/LEONARD PINE&quot; SERIES IS ONE OF THE BEST!!!	RUMBLE TUMBLE, the fifth novel in the series, by Joe R. Lansdale continues the saga of Hap Collins and Leonard Pine, beginning where BAD CHILI left off. It all starts when Hap's girlfriend, Brett Sawyer, tells him that a man called on the telephone and said that he had news about her wayward daughter, Tillie, but that it's going to cost her five hundred dollars to find out what it is. Hap and Leonard (think Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson--thanks, Dale!), accompanies Brett to the seedy motel where the voice on the phone is staying. It turns out there are two men at the motel--a redheaded midget with an attitude the size of King Kong and a stupid giant-size piece of white trash who thinks he's tougher than he actually is. Both guys want to make some quick money by telling Brett that her daughter, who's a prostitute, is being held against her will in Hootie Hoot, Oklahoma by the local crime lord, Big Jim Clemente. Naturally, it isn't long before Hap, Leonard, and Brett are heading to Hootie Hoot to rescue the trick-turning prodigal, but nothing is ever easy for these folks. After a big confrontation and a shootout in Big Jim's house of ill repute, the trio finds out that Tillie's been sent to Mexico to sexually service a gang of bikers called the Bandito Supremes as punishment for a misdeed. Hap and Leonard are two tough hombres, but the odds against rescuing Brett's daughter just got considerably higher with the addition of a biker gang of killers. Before the week is over, our two favorite amigos are going to have to deal with the treachery of a midget that can do handstands, an ex-biker turned preacher who wants redemption for his past deeds, a Texas armadillo in need of little friendship and kindness, and a shootout in old Mexico that will remind you of the ending in the movie, The Wild Bunch. RUMBLE TUMBLE delivers with full force the fun and excitement expected from any 'Hap Collins/Leonard Pine' novel. The characters are deftly drawn, the dialogue is true to the ear, and the story line has all of the necessary ingredients to fulfill one's desire for action, suspense and drama. Mr. Lansdale has created Hap and Leonard with not only a strong sense of humor, but with an avid sense of justice and honor. These two men also have a profound view of life and how to live it that gives the reader an opportunity to think about his or her own belief system. This fantastic series is more than just popcorn entertainment for the masses. It's a great author's attempt to tell a good story, while at the same time reflecting on what it means to be a decent human being and staying true to one's values. I can't recommend the 'Hap/Leonard' novels enough. This is writing that has power and honesty, and is able to touch the heart, as well as the funny bone. Now, it's time to pick up MUCHO MOJO, the third book in the series, and find out what the dysfunctional duo was like before Brett came into the picture.the ear, and the story line has all of the necessary ingredients to fulfill one's desire for action, suspense and drama. Mr. Lansdale has created Hap and Leonard with not only a strong sense of humor, but with an avid sense of justice and honor. These two men also have a profound view of life and how to live it that gives the reader an opportunity to think about his or her own belief system. This fantastic series is more than just popcorn entertainment for the masses. It's a great author's attempt to tell a good story, while at the same time reflecting on what it means to be a decent human being and staying true to one's values. I can't recommend the 'Hap/Leonard' novels enough. This is writing that has power and honesty, and is able to touch the heart, as well as the funny bone. Now, it's time to pick up MUCHO MOJO, the third book in the series, and find out what the dysfunctional duo was like before Brett came into the picture.	2001-09-03
US	49187160	R1LLMGUMXKLBVD	0446606022	214116597	Bad Chili	Books	5	15	16	N	N	THIS NOVEL IS THE MOST FUN I'VE HAD IN YEARS!	After having read Joe R. Lansdale's beautiful and poignant novel, THE BOTTOMS (everybody should read this!), I decided to back track and try some of the books in his 'Hap Collins/Leonard Pine' series, starting with BAD CHILI. I hate to say it, but after just one novel, I'm now addicted to these two fascinating and utterly delightful characters. I found myself laughing so hard in the first four pages of this novel that I started crying and then got stomach cramps. I can't believe it's taken me so long to finally pick up a book by this fantastic author. I must've had my head buried in a hole of sand for the last seven years. What's BAD CHILI about? Well, it's about Hap Collins and Leonard Pine (a couple of schmucks as Leonard would say of himself and his friend) who find themselves getting caught up in the most outrageous and dangerous situations, usually because they're trying to help someone. Hap is white, in his mid-forties, hates violence, dislikes guns, tries to stay within the law, has a bald spot on the back of his head, and is generally the calmer of the two. Leonard is black and homosexual, trained in the martial arts, tougher than any five guys put together, and the first to lose his temper. When Hap returns home after working on an off shore oil rig for several months, he and Leonard go out into the woods to shoot cans and play catch up on each other's life. It isn't long before a big, mean squirrel with rabies comes bouncing out of the woods and chases Hap around the field before finally latching onto his arm. While Hap goes to the hospital, Leonard attempts to find his boyfriend, Raul, who's left him for another man. Both Raul and his new lover end up dead, and Leonard is blamed for their murders. This leads Hap and Leonard on a quest to find out whom the real killer is, not to mention the person behind a sex/video ring who films homosexuals being beat up by several guys and then sexually abused by them. Hap will encounter one of the most dangerous and biggest men he has ever met'a slightly deranged ex-wrestler who likes to apply electricity to a person's genitals before beating them to death with a baseball bat. If Hap thought the squirrel was deadly, waits till he meets Big Man Mountain! BAD CHILI is the most fun I've had with a novel in an extremely long time. I immediately loved the characters of Hap and Leonard, feeling as if these were two guys I'd like to know in real life. I couldn't get enough of the bantering between the two of them. Both men proved to be tough hombres who knew when to cross the line for payback. These are guys you'd want covering your back, or tracking down the killers after you're dead. They're like dogs with a bone that won't let go, no matter what the cost. Hurt them or one of their friends, and they'll track you down to the ends of the earth to get a little helping of revenge. Brett Sawyer, a... nurse, who long ago bonked her husband on the head and then set him on fire, is Hap's new love interest, and she's just as tough as he is. Then, there's Jim Bob Luke, a professional P.I. who reminded me just a little bit of Steven Seagal in his ability to go in and take out the bad guys in less than thirty seconds with no mercy shown. Mr. Lansdale's writing in BAD CHILI is like a cold Corona going down on a hot Texas day'it makes you sigh with pure happiness when the last drop is finally swallowed. The story has more twists and turns than the Sabine River; and, as my late grandpappy would say, the trials and tribulations that Hap and Leonard go through would be enough to make a preacher cuss. BAD CHILI is definitely the real thing. It's the kind of book that adds a strong sense of joy to one's life and makes a reader glad that he's alive to have these kind of experiences. Needless to say, I've already purchased the rest of the books in the series and intend on reading all of them within the next week or so. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!ggest men he has ever met'a slightly deranged ex-wrestler who likes to apply electricity to a person's genitals before beating them to death with a baseball bat. If Hap thought the squirrel was deadly, waits till he meets Big Man Mountain! BAD CHILI is the most fun I've had with a novel in an extremely long time. I immediately loved the characters of Hap and Leonard, feeling as if these were two guys I'd like to know in real life. I couldn't get enough of the bantering between the two of them. Both men proved to be tough hombres who knew when to cross the line for payback. These are guys you'd want covering your back, or tracking down the killers after you're dead. They're like dogs with a bone that won't let go, no matter what the cost. Hurt them or one of their friends, and they'll track you down to the ends of the earth to get a little helping of revenge. Brett Sawyer, a... nurse, who long ago bonked her husband on the head and then set him on fire, is Hap's new love interest, and she's just as tough as he is. Then, there's Jim Bob Luke, a professional P.I. who reminded me just a little bit of Steven Seagal in his ability to go in and take out the bad guys in less than thirty seconds with no mercy shown. Mr. Lansdale's writing in BAD CHILI is like a cold Corona going down on a hot Texas day'it makes you sigh with pure happiness when the last drop is finally swallowed. The story has more twists and turns than the Sabine River; and, as my late grandpappy would say, the trials and tribulations that Hap and Leonard go through would be enough to make a preacher cuss. BAD CHILI is definitely the real thing. It's the kind of book that adds a strong sense of joy to one's life and makes a reader glad that he's alive to have these kind of experiences. Needless to say, I've already purchased the rest of the books in the series and intend on reading all of them within the next week or so. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2001-08-30
US	49187160	RRJNMB4BXU65C	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	THIS IS SIMPLY ONE OF THE BEST NOVELS I'VE EVER READ!!!	I've been aware of Joe R. Lansdale as a writer of short stories and novels for over fifteen years; but, until a few days ago, I'd never read anything by him. I'm not sure what drew me to THE BOTTOMS. Maybe it was the fact that this novel won the Edgar Award for 2000, or possibly it was the large number of positive reviews that were written about it. Whatever the reason, my curiosity was peaked to the extent that I wanted to read the novel now, in hardcover, rather than wait another month for the Trade paperback to come out. I wasn't even sure if I'd like the book; yet, I felt compelled to buy it. Now, let me say that over the last forty-two years, I've probably read somewhere in the neighborhood of 3,000 novels. Though there have been hundreds of books I've enjoyed over the years, few have managed to capture my heart and soul in such a way as to leave me with a profound sense of what it means to be a human being. This is a rare experience, but when it happens, I know that it's something that will stay with me for many years to come. THE BOTTOMS by Joe R. Lansdale is one of those miracles of writing that had such an affect, and what troubles me is that only a small audience of people is actually aware of this book. I hope my review will help alleviate this to a certain degree. THE BOTTOMS is the story of eleven-year-old Harry Crane and the tragedy that transpired between the years of 1933 and 34 in the small East Texas town of Marvel Creek. It began on a normal summer day when Harry and his younger sister, Thomasina, were out hunting squirrels along the Bottoms with their dog, Toby, and accidentally discovered the tortured body of a dead black woman. On their way back home to get their father, Jacob, who is the town's constable, they are stalked through the darken woods by something or someone that could be the legendary Goat Man. The two kids make it back home safe and sound, but just barely. When Jacob Crane is told about the body, he recovers it the next day and begins an investigation that few white people seem to care about. Eventually more bodies are discovered and the town realizes that it has a demented killer within its midst. It isn't, however, until a woman, who is partially black and white, is murdered that the \\"good\\" citizens of Marvel Creek decide to take matters into their own hands. Because of a careless error on Jacob's part, an innocent man is lynched, and he must come to grips with the totality of his mistake, as well as his failure to stop the hanging. It's a burden that can weigh heavily on the shoulders of a decent person. As the killings continue and someone very special to young Harry is brutally murdered, he and his sister take it upon themselves to solve the mystery of the Goat Man and find out who the killer really is. Of course, the killer knows that the two Crane children are hunting him and has plans of his own for dealing with them in a very special way. Joe R. Lansdale's novel is a morality tale in the grandest sense, dealing with the deep roots of racism and how people can close their eyes to prejudice and injustice. It's also a story about life itself and how human beings (both and bad) choose to live it, probing the emotions of guilt and shame like an open wound, while at the same time depicting heart-felt acts of courage and redemption. Filled with difficult questions concerning love, friendship, what its means to be a man, and doing the right thing when the odds are clearly stacked against you, Mr. Lansdale offers no easy answers and doesn't pull his punches when delving into the dark side of human nature. All of the characters in this novel resonate with a life force of their own, luring the reader into their world, making you believe each and every word that's written. I was there at night, in the woods, when the Goat Man stalked Harry and Thomasina, feeling their terror in the pit of my stomach. I breathed in the close friendships that Harry had with old man Mose and Miss Maggie, not to mention the schoolboy crush he had on his beautiful teacher, Mrs. Canerton. I raged and then wept when Jacob and Harry were beaten down to the ground by the lynch mob, knowing the anguish they felt at not being able to stop what was about to happen. And, I trembled in fear at the final confrontation between a young boy and a human monster, understanding that bravery often comes with the risk of death. THE BOTTOMS isn't a novel that can be read and then put away, but one that readers will live and feel to the very core of their being. This book is Joe R. Lansdale's masterpiece, as well as his breakout novel into mainstream fiction. It deserves to be recognized on a much wider scale, and I sincerely hope that those who read it and love the book as much as I do will pass the word.ention the schoolboy crush he had on his beautiful teacher, Mrs. Canerton. I raged and then wept when Jacob and Harry were beaten down to the ground by the lynch mob, knowing the anguish they felt at not being able to stop what was about to happen. And, I trembled in fear at the final confrontation between a young boy and a human monster, understanding that bravery often comes with the risk of death. THE BOTTOMS isn't a novel that can be read and then put away, but one that readers will live and feel to the very core of their being. This book is Joe R. Lansdale's masterpiece, as well as his breakout novel into mainstream fiction. It deserves to be recognized on a much wider scale, and I sincerely hope that those who read it and love the book as much as I do will pass the word.	2001-08-29
US	49187160	RUXIX3ZHZ3AOE	1881475719	876490663	Purity (Cemetery Dance Novella Series, No. 8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A TRAGIC TALE OF LOVE AND MURDER!!	Douglas Clegg is an author that one can easily become addicted to. He has a rather unique style of writing that slowly lures the reader in with its insight into humanity's mixed emotions and with carefully drawn characters that literally reach out for compassion and understanding. There's no better example of this than in Mr. Clegg's novella, PURITY, which has been printed in a beautifully designed, autographed, limited edition by Cemetery Dance Publications. PURITY is the tragic story of eighteen-year-old Owen Crites, the son of the Montgomery estate's gardener and caretaker. The estate is located off the coasts of Rhode Island and Massachusetts on Outerbridge Island. Every year, the Montgomery family spends the summer at their estate, bringing their young daughter, Jena, with them. Suffice it to say that Owen has loved Jena with (as Poe would write) a love that is more than a love for many years. Though he comes from a low-to-middle income family, Owen believes that he has a chance to win Jena's heart before she goes off to college. He has trained his mind and conditioned his body to make himself more attractive and appealing to her, but is it enough? Owen doesn't think so. Years before, at the age of twelve, he found an ancient statue of a god while exploring one of the many caverns on the island. He named the statue Dagon, after the Fish-God of the Philistines from the Bible, and hid it amongst the rocks in a small pond on the estate's property, waiting until the time came when he would finally need the ancient God's help in acquiring an obtainable goal. When Jena arrives on the island, by way of a sailboat, accompanied by her new boyfriend, Jimmy, our lovelorn teenager realizes that the moment has come to ask Dagon to give him the person of his dreams, no matter what the cost. If he can't compete against Jimmy for Jena's affections, then he'll find another way to win her heart, even if it means murder. Though only 118 pages in length, PURITY is rich in scope as the reader enters the mind of a young man and discovers how painful rejected love can be, more so when your rival is caught making love to the object of your affection. Mr. Clegg brilliantly captures the complexity of emotions that teenagers are filled with. He writes about the purity and innocence of love that only the young can know, while at the same time examining how the structure of marriage can nurture the lack of passion and romance as it does between Owen's parents and Jena's. Life is seldom easy, or viewed with a clarity that can only come with personal growth and maturity. It is certainly less so when you're a teenager with no social standing, trying to win the heart of a wealthy debutante. Subtle, yet poignant, PURITY is a tale that offers a brief glimpse into a world that might have been, reminding us of memories best forgotten, and of a longing that could never be filled. Though different from Douglas Clegg's other works and with less supernatural overtones, it nevertheless displays his remarkable talent as a writer and his ability to create characters that are but a reflection of who we are as human beings. The cover design and artwork by Gail Cross on this limited edition is beautiful to behold with its tapestry of greens and gold that perfectly depict the essence of the story and the approaching storm of tragedy about to unfold within. This Cemetery Dance edition of PURITY would definitely make an ideal gift for someone who loves books and is an avid fan of Douglas Clegg!the reader enters the mind of a young man and discovers how painful rejected love can be, more so when your rival is caught making love to the object of your affection. Mr. Clegg brilliantly captures the complexity of emotions that teenagers are filled with. He writes about the purity and innocence of love that only the young can know, while at the same time examining how the structure of marriage can nurture the lack of passion and romance as it does between Owen's parents and Jena's. Life is seldom easy, or viewed with a clarity that can only come with personal growth and maturity. It is certainly less so when you're a teenager with no social standing, trying to win the heart of a wealthy debutante. Subtle, yet poignant, PURITY is a tale that offers a brief glimpse into a world that might have been, reminding us of memories best forgotten, and of a longing that could never be filled. Though different from Douglas Clegg's other works and with less supernatural overtones, it nevertheless displays his remarkable talent as a writer and his ability to create characters that are but a reflection of who we are as human beings. The cover design and artwork by Gail Cross on this limited edition is beautiful to behold with its tapestry of greens and gold that perfectly depict the essence of the story and the approaching storm of tragedy about to unfold within. This Cemetery Dance edition of PURITY would definitely make an ideal gift for someone who loves books and is an avid fan of Douglas Clegg!	2001-08-27
US	49187160	R176COVNNOWJPX	1887368353	292687471	Ladies Night	Books	4	15	16	N	N	THIS IS AN ALL OUT WAR BETWEEN THE SEXES!!!	I'm now starting to get into what I call \\"Splatter\\" novels (that's \\"horror\\" and \\"suspense\\" fiction with excessive violence and gore, not mention a strong sexual content). I've already purchased several books by Jack Ketchum, Edward Lee, and Simon Clark, to name a few. I've also quickly discovered that sometimes too much violence and sex disrupts the flow of the book, while at other times it seems to be just the right amount, moving the story along at a breaknecking speed.<br /><br />Such is the case with Jack Ketchum's LADIES' NIGHT. This is a relatively short novel, running in at a 167 pages. It's fast paced, tense, and definitely not for the squeamish. The story begins when a tanker truck is involved in a traffic accident in the middle of New York City's West Side. The unknown contents of the truck spills out onto the streets, and its cloy, sweet cherry scent spreads throughout the inner city, infecting most of the female population.<br /><br />By nightfall, the women of NYC have become sexually aroused with a powerful blood lust that leads them to wanting to kill every man in the city. When Tom Braun and his wife notice a beautiful dancer masturbating herself with a broken wine bottle during a roof party at the top of their apartment building, it's the first sign that the night is going to get even stranger. After the party is over and the demented dancer has been subdued by security, Tom decides to visit the local bar for a nightcap. Within a couple of hours, the women in the bar are brutally murdering as many of the men as possible, while Tom and the bartender, Phil, fight their way outside to the street, stepping out of the frying pan and into the fire.<br /><br />The sounds of the night are filled with the screams of dying men and the demonic laughter of vengeful females. Tom realizes that the women in the city have gone bezerk and that his young son, Andy, may be in danger at their apartment. It's going to be a battle to the death as he and other men fight their way through the streets in an effort to save Andy...a boy who may already be dead at the hands of his mother.<br /><br />LADIES' NIGHT is one of those fun reads that reminded me of movies like Night of the Living Dead and Halloween. It's popcorn entertainment that thrills and makes you jump in all of the right places. Mr. Ketchum doesn't hold back on the blood and gore in his descriptions of men and women being killed in the streets of New York City; yet, rather than being a turnoff, it actually works for me. There is no in-depth character development here, but who cares? Most of the characters in this novel are going to be dead by the end of it. This is definitely a short roller-coaster ride of death and destruction that's to be enjoyed for its pacing and intensity.<br /><br />I liked LADIES' NIGHT enough that I intend to purchase some of Jack Ketchum's other novels, THE LOST, HIDE & SEEK, OPEN SEASON, and THE GIRL NEXT DOOR. Naturally, this novel isn't for everyone. If you're not into \\"splatter\\" fiction, then save your money for something else. If, however, you want to read some dark, violent, sexually oriented fiction that can make you laugh at times, then give this novel a shot!heir way through the streets in an effort to save Andy...a boy who may already be dead at the hands of his mother.<br /><br />LADIES' NIGHT is one of those fun reads that reminded me of movies like Night of the Living Dead and Halloween. It's popcorn entertainment that thrills and makes you jump in all of the right places. Mr. Ketchum doesn't hold back on the blood and gore in his descriptions of men and women being killed in the streets of New York City; yet, rather than being a turnoff, it actually works for me. There is no in-depth character development here, but who cares? Most of the characters in this novel are going to be dead by the end of it. This is definitely a short roller-coaster ride of death and destruction that's to be enjoyed for its pacing and intensity.<br /><br />I liked LADIES' NIGHT enough that I intend to purchase some of Jack Ketchum's other novels, THE LOST, HIDE & SEEK, OPEN SEASON, and THE GIRL NEXT DOOR. Naturally, this novel isn't for everyone. If you're not into \\"splatter\\" fiction, then save your money for something else. If, however, you want to read some dark, violent, sexually oriented fiction that can make you laugh at times, then give this novel a shot!	2001-08-26
US	49187160	R3BPWD2G25OM2Z	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A POWERHOUSE OF ACTION AND EDGE-OF-YOUR-SEAT SUSPENSE!!	When Robert Crais writes a book as good as HOSTAGE, I can almost forgive him for making me and his other fans wait two very long years for the next \\"Elvis Cole/Joe Pike\\" novel.  Remember, I said almost.  HOSTAGE is the story of Jeff Talley (think Bruce Willis!), a former LAPD SWAT negotiator who quit his job and left his family due to serious stress, burnout, and guilt over a hostage negotiation that turned bad.  He's now the Chief of Police of Bristo Camino, a small California community where life is simpler and the job less demanding.  At least it is, until two young hoods and a deadly psychopath rob a minimart and kill its owner.  In a futile attempt to escape the police, the three criminals jump the wall of a housing development and invade the home of Walter Smith, taking him and his two children hostage.  Talley and his people, along with the help of the California Highway Patrol, surround the house; and, for the most part, things run smoothly.  Talley uses his skills as a former hostage negotiator to keep the criminals inside the house calm, biding his time until the L.A. County Sheriff's SWAT team arrive to take over.  When they do and Talley signs off control of the situation, his troubles aren't ending.  No way.  What he thought was a bad day is going to swiftly turn into a nightmare that will push him right to the edge.  You see, Walter Smith isn't an ordinary family man.  He's the accountant for the West Coast mob and has two computer disks in his home office, loaded with information that can literally bring the criminal organization down to its knees.  Mob honcho, Sonny Benza, has no intention of letting the local police or even the FBI get possession of these incriminating disks.  He quickly brings in a team of killers to kidnap Talley's wife and daughter, and then tells our reluctant hero to get those disks one way or another, if he wants to see his family alive again.  Talley is caught between a rock and a hard place with nowhere to turn and the odds are stacked heavily against him.  He wants to save his family, as well as the hostages inside the house, but he may not be able to do both.  It's going to be a hard decision to make, not to mention a long night, but the worse is still yet to come!  HOSTAGE is an adrenaline surge that will have the heart pounding and the blood racing, clearly illustrating why Robert Crais is considered the MAN.  He's able to create true-to-life characters that breathe with authenticity...characters that could very well be your next-door neighbor or the person you work with.  He then puts these normal, everyday people in a \\"do or die\\" situation, juices up the stress to the point where a massive stroke is imminent, and waits patiently for the ground to fall out from under them to see what happens.  As expected, the quality of Mr. Crais' writing is high and cuts to the very bone with its razor-edge sharpness and terse dialogue.  The chapters are brief, tense, and to the point; yet, paced in such a manner that the reader may feel as if he's speeding straight into a head-on collision.  This is what action-packed, suspense writing is all about, and this is an author who hits the mark every time out.  When a writer like Robert Crais is in top form, nothing else comes even close to the kind rush you get from one of his novels.  Buy the book, read it, then prepared for the movie that's in the making, staring Bruce Willis as a cop who's once again in the wrong place at the wrong time.are stacked heavily against him.  He wants to save his family, as well as the hostages inside the house, but he may not be able to do both.  It's going to be a hard decision to make, not to mention a long night, but the worse is still yet to come!  HOSTAGE is an adrenaline surge that will have the heart pounding and the blood racing, clearly illustrating why Robert Crais is considered the MAN.  He's able to create true-to-life characters that breathe with authenticity...characters that could very well be your next-door neighbor or the person you work with.  He then puts these normal, everyday people in a \\"do or die\\" situation, juices up the stress to the point where a massive stroke is imminent, and waits patiently for the ground to fall out from under them to see what happens.  As expected, the quality of Mr. Crais' writing is high and cuts to the very bone with its razor-edge sharpness and terse dialogue.  The chapters are brief, tense, and to the point; yet, paced in such a manner that the reader may feel as if he's speeding straight into a head-on collision.  This is what action-packed, suspense writing is all about, and this is an author who hits the mark every time out.  When a writer like Robert Crais is in top form, nothing else comes even close to the kind rush you get from one of his novels.  Buy the book, read it, then prepared for the movie that's in the making, staring Bruce Willis as a cop who's once again in the wrong place at the wrong time.	2001-08-23
US	49187160	R22L86LAL95OG3	0843944498	61739882	Hungry Eyes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A NOVEL THAT CRACKLES WITH SUSPENSE!!!	The first book in the \\"Eyes\\" series by Barry Hoffman is HUNGRY EYES.  This is the story of Shara Farris (a.k.a. Renee Barrows) who was kidnapped by a neighbor, Edward Costanzo, when she was ten-years-old.  Costanzo supposedly held Renee prisoner in an isolated cabin for six long days, during which time she was tortured so that the facial expressions of her torment could be photographed.  When Costanzo was finally caught and Renee was freed, he ardently denied doing anything other than taking her to the cabin.  He went to jail and Renee was placed with foster parents for her protection.  Months later, though everything appeared to be going okay, something traumatic happened to Renee that forced her to make a vital decision regarding her life.  She decided to leave her foster home by faking a suicide and then risking the dangers of living on the streets of Philadelphia as a homeless person.  Everyone soon thought she was dead, and Renee felt safer than she had in years.  Thirteen years have now passed, and Renee calls herself Shara Farris.  The citizens of Philadelphia, however, know her as the Vigilante...a person who's been killing sexual predators left and right.  There's only one person in the city, Deidre Caffrey, who actually knows the Vigilante's true identity.  Deidre--a reporter who interviewed and then befriended Renee after the kidnapping--is now working for the Mayor's office and has been assigned to the Task Force that is hunting the Vigilante.  When she sees the words \\"NO MORE HUNGRY EYES\\" written in lipstick on the bedroom mirror of one of the murdered predators, Deidre immediately knows whom the killer is.  Though she has a hard time accepting it at first, it isn't long before she realizes that Renee is indeed alive and still haunted by the hungry eyes of the man who tortured her as a child.  Deidre understands that Renee is a killer, but has no intention of turning her in.  Instead, she intends on tracking Renee down and openly confronting her, hopefully before she kills again.  Renee knows that Deidre is coming after her.  The real question is what are Renee's intentions as she carefully lures Deidre into her tangled web by dropping clues for the ex-reporter to follow?  Does our killer have a hidden agenda; and, if so, what is it?  I found HUNGRY EYES to be an excellent first novel by a new author who has since proven his talent with a track record of three additional bestsellers.  The story is skillfully woven with flashbacks to Renee's life as a child, her eventual kidnapping, and how Deidre first met her and developed a bond that survived the ravages of time.  Both women feel an extremely strong connection to one another.  Renee sees Deidre as a big sister who sincerely cares about her, and Deidre views the younger woman as someone who has never experienced love, nor been able to trust the majority of people in her life.  In the creation of Renee and Deidre, Mr. Hoffman clearly demonstrates his skill and imagination at writing vivid females characters that are richly textured with complex personalities and who have suffered; yet, still manage to carry on.  Not to be forgotten are the secondary characters that shine with their own uniqueness.  Loretta Barrows, the mother of Renee, is realistically portrayed as a hard woman with little compassion, except for herself.  The brother of Renee comes off as a real piece of slime that deserves exactly what he gets and none too soon.  Jonas, Deidre's father-in-law, reminded me a lot of the actor Dennis Farina: strong, determined, realistic, and caring.  The author also knows how to weave an intricately layered plot, structured with increasing levels of suspense, that quickly draws the reader in and propels him down a meandering path filled with twists and turns and subtle inclinations that something isn't quite right.  This is a master craftsman at work.  Barry Hoffman knows the meaning and power of the written word; but, even more so, he knows how to spin a good yarn.  Not only do I look forward to reading the rest of his books, I can see that this gifted writer has a long and prosperous career ahead of him.  Now, it's time to pick up a copy of EYES OF PREY and see how the rest of the series continues..  Not only do I look forward to reading the rest of his books, I can see that this gifted writer has a long and prosperous career ahead of him.  Now, it's time to pick up a copy of EYES OF PREY and see how the rest of the series continues.	2001-08-21
US	49187160	R3VI4XUGKESHST	0843947934	18763936	Born Bad	Books	4	3	3	N	N	GIRLS JUST WANTED HAVE FUN!!!	Barry Hoffman, the acclaimed author of the \\"Eye\\" series, has written a rather intriguing thriller, BORN BAD, which centers on a female sociopath who literally loves to wreak havoc on others.  Shanicha Wilkins was born a \\"crack\\" baby and later adopted.  As a fourth-grade student and devoid of a conscious, Shanicha quickly learned the power of a lie.  She found out how easily people could be manipulated when she falsely accursed her teacher of molestation in the small town of New Canaan, Pennsylvania and unintentionally brought about his suicide.  Though Shanicha loved being at the center of attention, she realized-even as a child--how dangerous it could be for her and the apparent need for subterfuge.  She understood the necessity for blending in and remaining anonymous so that her wicked actions could be continued.  The skillful telling of lies gradually shifted to a deep fascination with fire, followed by a brief period as a murdering arsonist.  Now, Shanicha is a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania and has honed her deadly talents into a fine art.  She's discovered how easy it is to manipulate depressed students into committing suicide with a few choice words and thrives on this God-like power.  When the first student jumps to her death, Philadelphia PD homicide detectives Ariel Dampier and her partner, Doug Thiery, are called in to investigate.  It seems like an open-and-shut case, until the second and third suicides come a few weeks later.  Campus cop, Lucius Jackson, ex-husband of Ariel, suspects that there's more to these unexpected deaths than meets the eye.  When he's almost murdered by an unknown attacker, both the University and the police department have to accept the possibility that there might be a killer behind the scenes, pulling the strings like a master puppeteer.  Ariel and Doug are assigned to flush out this mystery person.  Shanicha, however, isn't worried about the police.  She's been involved in the act of murder for over a decade and knows that the cops can't prove anything.  What's troubling her is the fact that she's only been involved in two of the deaths and had nothing to do with the attempted murder of Lucius.  It seems that there's someone else on campus with the same agenda as Shanicha and is willing to do whatever it takes to become the reigning Queen of Death.  BORN BAD is one of those terrific reads that catch you by surprise.  I had it on my book shelve for several months, along with Mr. Hoffman's EYES OF PREY, before I finally picked it up to read, then went through it over a period of a couple of days, while entertaining relatives from out of town.  I found myself admiring and thoroughly enjoying Mr. Hoffman's articulate style of writing, along with the way he was able to create such vivid and interesting characters, especially with regards to Ariel and Shanicha.  Both are intelligent, troubled, strong-willed, and highly motivated women with a pretty good idea of what they want out of life and how to go about achieving it.  The fact that one is evil incarnate and the other is on the side of law and order is beside the point.  These are two ladies that rock!  Mr. Hoffman is able to climb into their minds and give the reader a window that opens into two very different worlds and lifestyles, allowing us a glimpse of the realities that create such diverse, yet compelling, characters.  Also, the supporting characters of Lucius, Chanda, Mia, and Doug Thiery shine with equal intensity, adding structure and pace to the story, allowing the author to explore more deeply the bonds of love, friendship, and psychopathic jealousy.  While not filled with page after page of action-filled excitement, there are certainly enough twists and turns to keep the reader hooked and guessing right up till the end.  In BORN BAD, a person will come away with the understanding that sometimes justice prevails and sometimes an individual has to take matters into their own hands to balance the scales.  One last note, when Barry Hoffman tried to do a book signing at the University of Pennsylvania for BORN BAD, he was asked to leave by the campus officials because they didn't like the subject matter of his novel.  He then went off campus and stood in front of a bookstore, handing out over a hundred copies of his novel for free to anyone who wanted to read it.  Way to go Barry!!!  Anyway, I liked this book so much that I purchased it in a signed, numbered edition for my growing collection and now intend to read his other novels, beginning with HUNGRY EYES.e, when Barry Hoffman tried to do a book signing at the University of Pennsylvania for BORN BAD, he was asked to leave by the campus officials because they didn't like the subject matter of his novel.  He then went off campus and stood in front of a bookstore, handing out over a hundred copies of his novel for free to anyone who wanted to read it.  Way to go Barry!!!  Anyway, I liked this book so much that I purchased it in a signed, numbered edition for my growing collection and now intend to read his other novels, beginning with HUNGRY EYES.	2001-08-12
US	49187160	R2O5V10QE3Z0ND	0786867280	908407552	Silent Joe: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THIS IS MR. PARKER'S BEST NOVEL TO DATE!!!	T. Jefferson Parker just keeps getting better and better with each novel.  In his newest book, SILENT JOE, the reader is introduced to Joe Trona (a.k.a. Acid Baby), a deputy for the Orange County Sheriff Department, a bodyguard for his adoptive father, Will, and a man who was horribly disfigured by his real father as an infant.  Needless to say, Joe has had to overcome adversity.  He smart, tough, a trained martial artist, and a crack shot with a .45 automatic.  He also deeply loves his adoptive father and would put his life on the line in a heartbeat to save him, if it ever came down to that.  And it does!  Will Trona, a powerful commissioner for Orange County, has made a lot of friends over the years, but he's also made a large number of enemies.  One dark, foggy night, while acting as a go-between to help rescue a kidnapped girl from a wealthy and influential family, Will is set up to be killed.  Joe, who's chauffeuring for his father that night, watches it happen, but is unable to do anything to save the man who raise him and loved him as few parents could.  He does manage, however, to take out two of the killers before the head honcho of the group murders the rest of his men to protect his own identity and then swiftly disappears into the night.  From that moment on, Joe's only goal is to find the answers as to why Will was set up and to put down the men behind the assassination.  Over the next few weeks, as Joe starts checking into his adoptive father's past, he discovers things that surprise and shock him...things that would've been better left alone.  He also begins to get an inkling of who might've wanted to murder Will and how big the conspiracy actually is.  At first the people behind Will's death try to buy Joe off in an attempt to make him back away from his investigation, then he's warned as to what might happen if he doesn't stop.  Joe Trona knows no fear, until the woman he has quickly grown to love is threatened.  The only way out of the situation is to confront the danger head on.  This is a man who always carries three handguns and can kill with his bare hands in a dozen different ways.  It's going to take a lot of firepower and a high body count to stop him from settling his vendetta against those that brought tragedy to his family and threaten the people he loves.  SILENT JOE is definitely Mr. Parker's best novel to date, and that's saying a lot when you consider that he wrote RED LIGHT, WHERE SERPENTS LIE and THE BLUE HOUR.  He's created a powerful character in Joe Trona, a man with his own inner demons to fight, a man that the reader immediately starts rooting for from page one.  As Joe seeks to avenge his father, he soon realizes that the person he loved was simply a man with his own strengths and weaknesses, and that nobody is perfect.  Joe still has to find a way to accept the frailties of Will Trona, while acknowledging the good that he was able to do for his community before dying.  Deep within Joe, however, is a desperate urgency to finally understand who his real parents were and why his actual father threw acid onto his face and his mother later abandoned him.  These are painful questions that have been kept buried for too long and now need to be brought to the surface for a resolution of some kind.  The answers may bring understanding, but they won't ease the turmoil that has made up his life.  SILENT JOE is certainly writing as its best.  Mr. Parker knows how to deliver the goods with a compelling plot and strong, believable characters that keep the reader glued to each riveting page.  I hope that this isn't the last we've seen of Joe Trona.  I'd love to see him return in a another novel, maybe even joining forces with Merci Rayborn from RED LIGHT and THE BLUE HOUR.  This is a character that's too good to limit to just one novel.  He deserves at least two or three more, so bring Joe back Mr. Parker!s to confront the danger head on.  This is a man who always carries three handguns and can kill with his bare hands in a dozen different ways.  It's going to take a lot of firepower and a high body count to stop him from settling his vendetta against those that brought tragedy to his family and threaten the people he loves.  SILENT JOE is definitely Mr. Parker's best novel to date, and that's saying a lot when you consider that he wrote RED LIGHT, WHERE SERPENTS LIE and THE BLUE HOUR.  He's created a powerful character in Joe Trona, a man with his own inner demons to fight, a man that the reader immediately starts rooting for from page one.  As Joe seeks to avenge his father, he soon realizes that the person he loved was simply a man with his own strengths and weaknesses, and that nobody is perfect.  Joe still has to find a way to accept the frailties of Will Trona, while acknowledging the good that he was able to do for his community before dying.  Deep within Joe, however, is a desperate urgency to finally understand who his real parents were and why his actual father threw acid onto his face and his mother later abandoned him.  These are painful questions that have been kept buried for too long and now need to be brought to the surface for a resolution of some kind.  The answers may bring understanding, but they won't ease the turmoil that has made up his life.  SILENT JOE is certainly writing as its best.  Mr. Parker knows how to deliver the goods with a compelling plot and strong, believable characters that keep the reader glued to each riveting page.  I hope that this isn't the last we've seen of Joe Trona.  I'd love to see him return in a another novel, maybe even joining forces with Merci Rayborn from RED LIGHT and THE BLUE HOUR.  This is a character that's too good to limit to just one novel.  He deserves at least two or three more, so bring Joe back Mr. Parker!	2001-08-02
US	49187160	R2DB01WBFZG4PH	0312273029	861235302	Silversword (John Caine Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	EX-NAVY SEAL JOHN CAINE IS BACK FOR MORE ACTION!!!!	I became a die-hard fan of Charles Knief last year when I read the first three John Caine books (SAND DOLLARS, EMERALD FLASH &amp; DIAMOND HEAD) back to back.  Now, with his newest novel, SILVER SWORD, Mr. Knief continues his winning streak with another skillfully written thriller that has John Caine facing his greatest fear.  Acting as a bodyguard for his friend, Chawlie Choy, while on a visit to San Francisco to negotiate a truce with a rival Tong organization, Caine is seriously wounded during a shootout that leaves an innocent bystander dead.  The San Francisco Police Department, as well as the local judicial system, thinks that Caine should be held responsible for the killing, even though hes innocent of any wrongdoing.  Out of gratitude for saving his life, Chawlie hires the best lawyer that money can buy to represent his friend, and Caine is allowed to return temporarily to Hawaii, knowing that he may eventually be charged with first-degree murder.  As he begins to recuperate from his gunshot wound and contemplate the possibility of spending several years in prison, Caine is asked by his old friend, Lieutenant Kimo Kahanamoku of the Honolulu Police Department, to help protect a young graduate student who has discovered the tomb of an ancient Hawaii king, as well as a ton of Spanish treasure.  There are those whod like to get their hands on both the treasure and the remains of King Kamehameha, and are willing to do whatever it takes to achieve this goal.  Needless to say, John Caine will have his hands full, especially when Chawlie warns him about a contract that has been taken out on his life by the San Francisco Chinese Tongs in retaliation for the part he played in protecting his friend during the gun battle.  SILVER SWORD is almost twice as long as any of the three previous novels.  Because of this, Mr. Knief is able to explore with more depth the close friendships that Caine has with both Kimo and Chawlie.  Weve able to see the strong bond that joins these three men together, and the respect that begrudgingly develops between Kimo and Chawlie Choy.  Of course, as Caine considers the prospect of jail and what it will mean to be locked away from the things he holds most precious, the reader grows to understand this man with more clarity, catching brief glimpses of his fears, his needs, and his desire to make the most out of life while he still has time.  Though suspenseful and multi-faceted, SILVER SWORD isnt as fast-paced as the other Caine novels.  There arent any big action sequences that allow our hero to strut his stuff.  Due to the gunshot wound in his side, Caine is more passive here and has to let others take the lead.  Still, there are moments of intense action when he must fight for his life and kill those that would harm him and his closest friends.  SILVER SWORD is an excellent addition to the series and will have the reader hoping that Charles Knief continues to write about John Caine for many years to come.strong bond that joins these three men together, and the respect that begrudgingly develops between Kimo and Chawlie Choy.  Of course, as Caine considers the prospect of jail and what it will mean to be locked away from the things he holds most precious, the reader grows to understand this man with more clarity, catching brief glimpses of his fears, his needs, and his desire to make the most out of life while he still has time.  Though suspenseful and multi-faceted, SILVER SWORD isnt as fast-paced as the other Caine novels.  There arent any big action sequences that allow our hero to strut his stuff.  Due to the gunshot wound in his side, Caine is more passive here and has to let others take the lead.  Still, there are moments of intense action when he must fight for his life and kill those that would harm him and his closest friends.  SILVER SWORD is an excellent addition to the series and will have the reader hoping that Charles Knief continues to write about John Caine for many years to come.	2001-08-02
US	49187160	R3TVCOQ701C4X2	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A FANTASTIC READ!!!	Until a few weeks ago, I didn't know who Harlan Coben was.  Of course, I'd noticed his books in the store and seen his name recommended by other readers on the websites, but I had no desire to find out more about him, or to read any of his novels.  That changed when I saw a blurb on his newest thriller, TELL NO ONE.  The premise for the story sounded so good that I decided to risk a couple of sawbucks and buy a hardback by an author I knew next to nothing about.  I'm happy to say that the gamble paid off big time and with huge dividends.  I now have a small stack of his other books sitting on my coffee table, waiting to be read.  Life doesn't get much better than this!  In TELL NO ONE, the plot centers on Dr. David Beck, a man who has tried to put his life back together after the tragic death of his wife, Elizabeth, eight years before.  It happened one night at their summer retreat on Lake Charmaine.  After swimming in the lake with her husband, Elizabeth made her way back to the cottage and was attacked by one or more assailants.  Her screams for help brought David running to her aid, but he was beaten with a baseball bat and left for dead. A few days later, her body was found alongside of the highway with the letter K branded into the side of her face.  Elroy Kellerton, a serial killer (a.k.a. KillRoy), was eventually charged with her murder.  Now, eight years later, David Beck sits down at his office computer and opens an e-mail that gives him a piece of information only Elizabeth could know about.  Has his dead wife suddenly returned from the grave, or is someone playing a cruel hoax on him?  It isn't long, however, before Beck is running for his life!  It turns out that someone has been watching him for eight long years...someone who'd paid to have Elizabeth killed...someone who wanted to be absolutely sure that she was, in fact, dead.  As those closest to Beck start dying and he's framed for their murders, he quickly realizes that there are few people he can trust.  Now, he not only has to avoid these unknown killers, but the police as well.  All of this can't stop our reluctant hero from following the only course of action opened to him-finding the woman he still loves and killing those who would harm her.  TELL NO ONE grabs you by the seat of your pants in the first few pages and doesn't let go till the last, breathtaking page.  \\"WOW!\\" was the only thing I could think of to say after I finished the book and laid it down on the couch beside me.  Why?  Because Mr. Coben had created characters you truly cared for, while at the same time, weaving an intricate story line that kept them walking a narrow tightrope of intemperate danger and kept the reader sitting on the edge of his seat in avid anticipation.  Each time I thought smugly to myself that I had it all figured out, Mr. Coben surprised me with an unexpected plot twist, or a villain that kept to the shadows until he was ready to pounce.  I couldn't help but smile as I realized how skilled the author was at manipulating my mind and emotions, and I mean this as a sincere compliment.  It takes sheer craftsmanship to be able to do this successfully.  I should also add that this novel is as much a love story as it is an action-packed thriller.  There was one point in it where I felt goose bumps rising on my arms at the strength of David and Elizabeth's love for each other.  I wanted them to make it out alive, but wasn't sure if it would actually happen.  TELL NO ONE is definitely an \\"In-Your-Face\\" novel that will make you an instant fan of Mr. Coben.  Buy it, read it, then quickly order the rest of his books, but don't forget to spread the word about this terrific writer.  Harlan Coben is one of those \\"best-kept secrets\\" that need to be announced from loud speakers at the Super Bowl!rust.  Now, he not only has to avoid these unknown killers, but the police as well.  All of this can't stop our reluctant hero from following the only course of action opened to him-finding the woman he still loves and killing those who would harm her.  TELL NO ONE grabs you by the seat of your pants in the first few pages and doesn't let go till the last, breathtaking page.  \\"WOW!\\" was the only thing I could think of to say after I finished the book and laid it down on the couch beside me.  Why?  Because Mr. Coben had created characters you truly cared for, while at the same time, weaving an intricate story line that kept them walking a narrow tightrope of intemperate danger and kept the reader sitting on the edge of his seat in avid anticipation.  Each time I thought smugly to myself that I had it all figured out, Mr. Coben surprised me with an unexpected plot twist, or a villain that kept to the shadows until he was ready to pounce.  I couldn't help but smile as I realized how skilled the author was at manipulating my mind and emotions, and I mean this as a sincere compliment.  It takes sheer craftsmanship to be able to do this successfully.  I should also add that this novel is as much a love story as it is an action-packed thriller.  There was one point in it where I felt goose bumps rising on my arms at the strength of David and Elizabeth's love for each other.  I wanted them to make it out alive, but wasn't sure if it would actually happen.  TELL NO ONE is definitely an \\"In-Your-Face\\" novel that will make you an instant fan of Mr. Coben.  Buy it, read it, then quickly order the rest of his books, but don't forget to spread the word about this terrific writer.  Harlan Coben is one of those \\"best-kept secrets\\" that need to be announced from loud speakers at the Super Bowl!	2001-07-30
US	49187160	RU21D8VBVIIZY	0399147268	32851163	Echo Burning (Jack Reacher, No. 5)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	MR. CHILD'S BEST BOOK SINCE	Last year, when I read RUNNING BLIND, I gave it a somewhat scathing review, stating that Lee Child hadn't produce a really exciting book since THE KILLING FLOOR, promising myself that I'll never buy another \\"Jack Reacher\\" novel in hardback for as long as I lived. As far as I was concerned, Mr. Child had three strikes against him and had struck out with me as a fan. Well, I broke the promise to myself with the publication of ECHO BURNING, and I'm glad I did. This novel turned out to be a winner in every sense of the word and represents the sheer craftsmanship that Lee Child is capable of bringing to his work. In his newest book, Jack Reacher once again returns and finds himself caught up in a game of lies, abuse and murder. While hitchhiking out of Lubbock, Texas in an attempt to escape the wrath of the law, he's picked up by Carmen Greer, a beautiful, married Latino woman who's driving a luxurious white Cadillac. Mrs. Greer is looking for someone to kill her abusive husband, Sloop, who's due to get out of prison, and she thinks that Reacher would be the perfect person to take care of her little problem. Since Reacher doesn't consider himself to be a cold-blooded killer, he politely refuses her kind offer. He does, however, agree to go back to the ranch where she and her daughter, Ellie, live with Sloop's family and to act as a protector for her. This leads to our hero finding himself in the middle of a really large domestic dispute. Except for Carmen and Ellie, nobody in the Greer family likes having his presence at the ranch, and they attempt to do everything within their power to force him to leave. When Sloop get out of jail and returns home, only to be murdered on the night of his arrival, it looks as though Carmen decided to take matters into her own hands.  No one believes that she is innocent, except for Reacher, and he's not absolutely sure himself.  As he attempts to find out who the real killer is, Reacher suddenly becomes the focus point of a three-person &quot;hit&quot; team, and he must find a way to stay alive long enough to finally get to the truth.  ECHO BURNING is a taut, suspenseful thriller that displays the brilliant writing that Lee Child is capable of penning. He captures the heat and isolation of the Texas landscape perfectly, while giving us characters filled with either an outright meanness or a hidden evil. Though Reacher is able to read people, judging how good or bad they might be, he may have just met his match with the Greer family. There are so many lies and half-truths being told by, and about, the family that our main character won't know whom to believe, and neither will the reader. Is everything that Carmen Greer told Reacher a lie so that her husband could be murdered, or is the Greer family really a nest of vipers, ready to kill to protect its own? In this novel, Mr. Child touches the inner core of what evil really is and how it hides behind the masks of ordinary people. Jack Reacher, however, shines at his best as he decides to take on a whole town, if necessary, to do what he feels is right, meeting violence with violence, and handing out death to those who want a piece of him. ECHO BURNING is one tough novel that gives us a deeper look at the character of Jack Reacher and the essence of humanity in him that reaches out to help those who are being preyed upon. This is definitely the kind of person you want covering your back when the bad guys are closing in. For those of you who loved THE KILLING FLOOR, Mr. Child has written another book that equals, if not surpasses, the quality of his first novel. It's one I'm proud to highly recommend!&quot;hit&quot; team, and he must find a way to stay alive long enough to finally get to the truth.  ECHO BURNING is a taut, suspenseful thriller that displays the brilliant writing that Lee Child is capable of penning. He captures the heat and isolation of the Texas landscape perfectly, while giving us characters filled with either an outright meanness or a hidden evil. Though Reacher is able to read people, judging how good or bad they might be, he may have just met his match with the Greer family. There are so many lies and half-truths being told by, and about, the family that our main character won't know whom to believe, and neither will the reader. Is everything that Carmen Greer told Reacher a lie so that her husband could be murdered, or is the Greer family really a nest of vipers, ready to kill to protect its own? In this novel, Mr. Child touches the inner core of what evil really is and how it hides behind the masks of ordinary people. Jack Reacher, however, shines at his best as he decides to take on a whole town, if necessary, to do what he feels is right, meeting violence with violence, and handing out death to those who want a piece of him. ECHO BURNING is one tough novel that gives us a deeper look at the character of Jack Reacher and the essence of humanity in him that reaches out to help those who are being preyed upon. This is definitely the kind of person you want covering your back when the bad guys are closing in. For those of you who loved THE KILLING FLOOR, Mr. Child has written another book that equals, if not surpasses, the quality of his first novel. It's one I'm proud to highly recommend!	2001-07-17
US	49187160	R38R2NYB7QU4QZ	0743204832	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	5	21	23	N	N	JAMES LEE BURKE IS ONE OF THE BEST WRITERS IN AMERICA TODAY!	I made a promise to myself after reading HEARTWOOD last year that I'd buy the next \\"Billy Bob Holland\\" novel in hardback when it came out, rather than waiting for the paperback edition.  It's a promise I'm glad I kept.  In James Lee Burke's newest novel, BITTERROOT, ex-Texas Ranger Billy Bob Holland is back in true form, ready to protect his family and friends, and to put down anyone who gets in his face.  When Billy Bob goes to Bitterroot, Montana to visit his old friend, Tobin \\"Doc\\" Voss, he expects to have a nice, relaxing vacation with maybe a little \\"fly\\" fishing thrown in.  It turns out, however, to be anything but relaxing.  It seems that a local mining company is polluting the rivers around Bitterroot with cyanide and Doc Voss is trying to put a stop to it.  The mining company decides to fight back by hiring some hard-nose bikers and members of a certain white supremacist group (led by Carl Hinkel) to try and intimidate Doc.  Since Doc is a former SEAL and did his fair share of killing in Vietnam, he's not the kind of guy who generally backs down.  When Doc's sixteen-year-old daughter, Maisey, is brutally raped by three bikers, everything takes a turn for the worse.  The men suspected of the crime are released from jail due to a lack of evidence and then are murdered, one by one, by an unknown assailant.  Because of evidence found at the crime scenes, Doc is the number one suspect for the murders, and he has to ask Billy Bob to represent him as his lawyer.  As if Billy Bob doesn't have enough to deal with, an ex-con by the name of Wyatt Dixon shows up in Bitterroot, seeking revenge against the former Texas Ranger for the death of his sister (a woman who killed all of her children).  Then, there's a mobster by the name of Nicki Molinari, who's trying to retrieve some stolen money from a woman Billy Bob happens to be sexually involved with.  All of this is just the tip of the iceberg.  Before the novel is over, the body count is going to be sky high, and Billy Bob is going to have to answer some tough questions about love, family, friendship, and his violent nature.  Not even the ghost of his late friend and partner, L.Q. Navarro, will be able to help him with this.  In BITTERROOT, James Lee Burke shines at his brightest as he juggles a dozen or more subplots, spinning and weaving them into a gripping tale of violence, suspense and redemption.  The character of Billy Bob Holland will have to delve deeply into his heart and examine his feelings for his close friend, Carol Temple, while at the same time, acknowledging that his son, Lucas, is now a man and must be allowed to make his own decisions, right or wrong.  Billy Bob must also find a way to deal with his violent tendencies, understanding that he only feels alive when putting down men who deserve to be killed.  This is especially true for the character of Wyatt Dixon, a man who's as deadly as a rattlesnake and is determine to teach Billy Bob a thing or two about revenge by going after the people he loves the most.  Though the book is filled dozens of main and secondary characters, Mr. Burke manages to breathe life into each and everyone one of them through the use of individual quirks and nuances.  Few authors have the skill to do this.  The writing, of course, is sheer poetry to read.  Mr. Burke has a finely tuned ear for dialogue and a vivid eye for description, bringing words together that reach into the reader's heart and soul, making him or her at one with the story.  I have to say that, after three novels, the character of Billy Bob Holland is beginning to remind me more and more of Dave Robicheaux.  Both men are filled with guilt at the lost of a close friend or wife.  Each one also has a strong loyalty to friends and family, not to mention a strict code of honor that enables them to do whatever is necessary in order to protect the weak and innocent.  There's even a rumor floating around that Mr. Burke will eventually bring both characters together in one book.  That is definitely something all of Mr. Burke's fans would happily die for.  Read BITTERROOT and find out why James Lee Burke is now considered to be one of America's best writers, then check out the \\"Dave Robicheaux\\" novel, PURPLE CANE ROAD, and discover why millions of people are addicted to this great author..  That is definitely something all of Mr. Burke's fans would happily die for.  Read BITTERROOT and find out why James Lee Burke is now considered to be one of America's best writers, then check out the \\"Dave Robicheaux\\" novel, PURPLE CANE ROAD, and discover why millions of people are addicted to this great author.	2001-07-10
US	49187160	R2N3FO5EYPV1DZ	0312274971	198636210	Hardcase	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A FANTASTIC ENTRY INTO THE &quot;MYSTERY&quot; GENRE!!!	Dan Simmons was originally planning to publish HARDCASE under a pseudonym.  Why?  I'm not sure, other than the fact that he pays homage to the \\"Parker\\" novels, which were written by Richard Stark (a.k.a. Donald Westlake), at the beginning of his book and that maybe he wanted to, at first, emulate the path Westlake took as a writer.  Whatever the reason, I'm extremely happy that Mr. Simmons decided to go ahead and have this exceptional entry into the \\"mystery\\" genre published under his own name.  Otherwise, I probably would've missed it.  HARDCASE is a story that deals with ex-P.I. Joe Kurtz, a man who's hard as nails and can kill when the need arises, yet still has his own code of honor.  When Kurtz's female partner is raped and murdered by Sammy Levine and Eddie Falco, he quickly extracts revenge on the two men and spends eleven years in Attica for it.  While in jail, Kurtz helps out and protects Steve Farino, the son of Buffalo, New York's mob boss, Don Byron Farino.  This leads to a job with the Farino Family when Kurtz is finally paroled.  Kurtz offers his help to the Don in finding out who's trying to secretly take over the Family business of drugs trafficking and truck hijackings.  There are a number of people, however, who'd rather not have Kurtz sticking his nose in places it doesn't belong.  Killers (Malcolm Kibunte and Cutter, DooRag and his posse of gangbangers, the Alabama Beagle Boys, and an assassin known only as the Dane) are hired to take out Kurtz before anything incriminating can be uncovered.  If that wasn't enough, there's also Manny Levine (a dwarf who carries a .44 Magnum revolver and looks like a mean version of Danny DeVito), who's seeking revenge for the death of his brother, Sammy.  Kurtz is going to find out that staying alive on the outside is a lot harder than when he was in jail.  HARDCASE literally hooked me in the first six pages and kept me riveted to the couch, until the book was finally finished a few hours later.  I knew I liked the character of Joe Kurtz the moment he threw Eddie Falco out of a six-story apartment window as police cars were pulling up to the curb down below, then turned around, opened the door to the apartment, and waited patiently on his knees with his fingers laced behind his head for the cops to come in.  Few novels are able to grab a reader that fast and not let go!  Kurtz proves to be not only smart and tough, but also loyal to the people close to him.  There's his street-wise secretary, Arlene, and a homeless man named Pruno, who was once a college professor and speaks Latin, plus Doc, who's a night security guard in a vacant factory and has an arsenal of high-quality handguns for sell.  Then, there's Rachel, the twelve-year-old daughter of his late partner, Samantha, and though it's never stated or actually implied, I think Joe is the young girl's actual father.  Mr. Simmons (an author who has continuously proven his talent with such diverse novels as CARRION COMFORT, SUMMER OF NIGHT, SONG OF KALI, CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT, THE CROOK FACTORY, and DARWIN'S BLADE) has written a book of such excellence that it deserves to win an Edgar or Shamus Award for the best \\"Mystery\\" novel of 2001.  His writing is that of a seasoned pro, his multitude of characters are sharply drawn and never boring, and the story line keeps the reader, not only guessing right up till the final page, but rushing to get there.  I hope that HARDCASE is only the first in a long line of \\"Joe Kurtz\\" novels to follow.  This could easily be a series that would enlarge Mr. Simmons's fan base, plus hopefully put him on the bestseller lists where he truly belongs.he character of Joe Kurtz the moment he threw Eddie Falco out of a six-story apartment window as police cars were pulling up to the curb down below, then turned around, opened the door to the apartment, and waited patiently on his knees with his fingers laced behind his head for the cops to come in.  Few novels are able to grab a reader that fast and not let go!   Kurtz proves to be not only smart and tough, but also loyal to the people close to him.  There's his street-wise secretary, Arlene, and a homeless man named Pruno, who was once a college professor and speaks Latin, plus Doc, who's a night security guard in a vacant factory and has an arsenal of high-quality handguns for sell.  Then, there's Rachel, the twelve-year-old daughter of his late partner, Samantha, and though it's never stated or actually implied, I think Joe is the young girl's actual father.  Mr. Simmons (an author who has continuously proven his talent with such diverse novels as CARRION COMFORT, SUMMER OF NIGHT, SONG OF KALI, CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT, THE CROOK FACTORY, and DARWIN'S BLADE) has written a book of such excellence that it deserves to win an Edgar or Shamus Award for the best \\"Mystery\\" novel of 2001.  His writing is that of a seasoned pro, his multitude of characters are sharply drawn and never boring, and the story line keeps the reader, not only guessing right up till the final page, but rushing to get there.  I hope that HARDCASE is only the first in a long line of \\"Joe Kurtz\\" novels to follow.  This could easily be a series that would enlarge Mr. Simmons's fan base, plus hopefully put him on the bestseller lists where he truly belongs.	2001-07-09
US	49187160	R3MPB88ETV0DUH	0312268947	955957073	The Hunting Wind: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries (Hardcover)) (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	HAMILTON ONCE AGAIN DELIVERS!!!	Steven Hamilton's newest book, THE HUNTING WIND, is another home run straight out of the park.  He brings back Alex McKnight (A COLD DAY IN PARADISE &amp; WINTER OF THE WOLF MOON) for a third outing that takes a hard look at the meaning of friendship and what it entails.  McKnight is in the Glasgow Inn one cold night, drinking his favorite Canadian beer, when Randy Wilkins suddenly walks in to ask for his help in locating Maria Valenescu, a woman he once loved and whom he hasn't seen in thirty years.  Normally, McKnight would say no to a case like this, but Wilkins was a close friend of his when they played together in the minor leagues over three decades ago, plus he's a hard man to refuse.  Together, they begin to slowly track down Maria, using information on the Internet, birth records, and knocking on doors in the old neighborhoods around Detroit.  Something, however, isn't quite right.  When they finally locate Maria's family, both men are beaten up and almost killed by the woman's brother.  It seems that Maria has been hiding from an individual named Charles Hardwood for several years.  Hardwood used to be business partners with her husband, Arthur Zambelli.  When Maria's husband was mysteriously murdered, she suspected that Hardwood was the one behind it so that he could take over their real estate business and marry her after everything quieted down.  Maria didn't wait around.  Out of fear for herself and her daughter, she took off, moving from place to place, barely managing to stay ahead of Hardwood and his private detectives.  McKnight quickly realizes that he and Wilkins have gotten caught in the middle of something very deadly.  It isn't until his friend is nearly killed, however, that our Michigan detective begins to understand that nothing is quite as it seems.  Everyone appears to be lying and more people are definitely about to die.  McKnight puts his life on the line in order to get through the tangled web of deceit, trusting no one, not even the man who was once his best friend, fighting the temptation to run as he seeks to learn the truth of who Maria really is.  THE HUNTING WIND explores the bond of friendship and what it means.  Through the character of Alex McKnight, we are able to learn that the image we have of someone close to us is often only a partial glimpse into the actual person.  People change, people wear masks to hide their true nature, and people lie to either protect themselves or to get what they want.  How good do we actually know our friends, and how far are we willing to go for the sake of friendship?  These are questions posed by the author that every man must answer sooner or later.  As with his first two novels, Mr. Hamilton once again weaves an intriguing tale with underlying subplots and riveting suspense, carrying the reader on a meandering path, whose final destination is unknown.  The characters are vivid and true to life, making us care, hate, desire, mistrust, and ultimately to believe in them.  I especially liked Maria, feeling the intense desire for her that McKnight experiences, knowing that it would be easy for any man to succumb to her seductive manipulations.  The prose is taut with not a word wasted, and it grabs the reader by the shirttails in the first couple of paragraphs, demonstrating what good writing is all about.  With just three novels, Steve Hamilton has managed to take his place amongst the top authors in the field of \\"mystery\\" writing.  If you're an individual who likes the \\"Matthew Scudder\\" series by Lawrence Block or the \\"Dave Robicheaux\\" books by James Lee Burke, then give the novels by Steve Hamilton a shot.  I guarantee you won't be disappointed.an who was once his best friend, fighting the temptation to run as he seeks to learn the truth of who Maria really is.  THE HUNTING WIND explores the bond of friendship and what it means.  Through the character of Alex McKnight, we are able to learn that the image we have of someone close to us is often only a partial glimpse into the actual person.  People change, people wear masks to hide their true nature, and people lie to either protect themselves or to get what they want.  How good do we actually know our friends, and how far are we willing to go for the sake of friendship?  These are questions posed by the author that every man must answer sooner or later.  As with his first two novels, Mr. Hamilton once again weaves an intriguing tale with underlying subplots and riveting suspense, carrying the reader on a meandering path, whose final destination is unknown.  The characters are vivid and true to life, making us care, hate, desire, mistrust, and ultimately to believe in them.  I especially liked Maria, feeling the intense desire for her that McKnight experiences, knowing that it would be easy for any man to succumb to her seductive manipulations.  The prose is taut with not a word wasted, and it grabs the reader by the shirttails in the first couple of paragraphs, demonstrating what good writing is all about.  With just three novels, Steve Hamilton has managed to take his place amongst the top authors in the field of \\"mystery\\" writing.  If you're an individual who likes the \\"Matthew Scudder\\" series by Lawrence Block or the \\"Dave Robicheaux\\" books by James Lee Burke, then give the novels by Steve Hamilton a shot.  I guarantee you won't be disappointed.	2001-07-04
US	49187160	R20Z5A7RBHSPOD	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A TERRIFYING NOVEL OF MURDER AND REVENGE!!!	In John Connolly's newest novel, DARK HOLLOW, the character of Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker returns to track down a serial killer that his grandfather once hunted. It began thirty-six years before when six women between the ages of eighteen and twenty-two disappeared in northern Maine during the months from April to October. Charlie's grandfather, Bob Warren, helped in the search for the missing girls, but to no avail...that is until a stranger stepped into a bar one night and told him to look in the Sebec Lake area. Five of the women were found there, hanging naked from the same oak tree. The stranger's name was Caleb Kyle, and he was never seen again. Three decades later, Charlie Parker is asked by Rita Ferris to help collect some back child support from her ex-husband, Billy Purdue. A few days later, Rita and her infant son are found brutally murdered, and the police think that Billy did it. It sounds like an open-and-shut case. The only problem is that Billy has taken off, and it seems like everybody in New England is after him. The local and state police want him for murder. Tony Celli, a member of the Boston mob, thinks that he stole two million dollars from him and will do whatever it takes to get the money back. Next in line are two very evil, cold-blooded assassins who want to get their hands on the missing money so that they can retire in style. Last, but not least, is Charlie Parker. Charlie thinks that Billy is innocent. In fact, his gut instinct tells him that Caleb Kyle is behind the deaths of Rita and her child, not to mention the many killings that will soon follow. The real questions are what is the connection between Caleb Kyle and Billy Purdue, and why has Caleb Kyle started killing once again? Charlie will eventually find himself up against the most vicious murderers he has ever encountered, and Death will be around the corner, waiting for him to make a mistake. Even with the help of his friends, Louis and Angel, he may not survive the cost required to find the answers to his questions and to finally finish what his late grandfather wanted to do-kill Caleb Kyle! In DARK HOLLOW, Mr. Connolly has written a truly magnificent follow-up to his first novel, EVERY DEAD THING. It's been almost a year since &quot;The Traveling Man&quot; murdered Charlie's wife and daughter. The emotional pain and guilt are still there for Charlie (not to mention the fact that he's able to see the dead and hear their cries for retribution), but now he has a new purpose in life. His one desire is to fight for those who are unable to do it for themselves; and, thereby, to make amends for the death of his family and for the violence he has inadvertently brought to those closest to him. Charlie understands that there can be no salvation for him, but possibly...just possibly he might be able to bring about reparation by helping the weak and innocent and killing those who would prey on them. Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker is a richly drawn character that boldly comes to life and quickly draws the reader into his world of sorrow and revenge. No super hero, he gets beat up and tortured and barely survives as he bull-headedly plows ahead for the truth. The truth, however, isn't always what we think it will be, and it always has a price. The characters of Louis and Angel are just as strong. Though criminals in their own right, they also have a moral code of honor and are more than willing to put their lives on the line to help Charlie because they know he's doing the right thing. Like the author, Thomas Harris, Mr. Connolly also knows how to create killers who reek of pure evil and can cause goose bumps to rise on the arms of the reader. Most people would not survive a chance encounter with someone like Caleb Kyle, or the assassin known as Stritch. These characters are the personification of evil and match Charlie's goodness deed for deed. DARK HOLLOW is a powerful, multi-layered novel that will literally chill you to the bone. That it works successfully on a number of different levels is a credit to Mr. Connolly's talent as a writer. He's able to juggle several plot lines without slowing down the pace of the novel and then have them converge into a suspenseful, electrifying ending that leaves the reader wishing that the next &quot;Charlie Parker&quot; novel was already out. John Connolly is a new voice on the horizon and he definitely deserves to be heard. If you haven't read either of his two books, buy them now and then, like me, you'll eagerly be awaiting for the third book in the trilogy to come out.ks successfully on a number of different levels is a credit to Mr. Connolly's talent as a writer. He's able to juggle several plot lines without slowing down the pace of the novel and then have them converge into a suspenseful, electrifying ending that leaves the reader wishing that the next &quot;Charlie Parker&quot; novel was already out. John Connolly is a new voice on the horizon and he definitely deserves to be heard. If you haven't read either of his two books, buy them now and then, like me, you'll eagerly be awaiting for the third book in the trilogy to come out.	2001-07-03
US	49187160	R5VLIZO7JYVX4	0786889756	547917110	Red Light	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A NOVEL THAT GRIPS YOU IN THE FIRST CHAPTER!	In RED LIGHT, T. Jefferson Parker's sequel to THE BLUE HOUR, Sergeant Merci Rayborn of the Orange County Sheriff Department returns to investigate the murder of a prostitute.  It's been two long years since the Purse Snatcher killed her partner and lover, Tim Hess, and the emotional pain and guilt still haven't gone away.  Her father has moved in with her to help with little Tim, Jr. and to try and ease the fears that have overwhelmed her during the past twenty-four months.  As she and her new partner, Paul Zamorra, dig deeper into the dead prostitute's life, the crime scene evidence starts to point to another police officer, Mike McNally, as the perpetrator...a man she has been dating for several months.  Merci doesn't want to believe that her lover could be the killer, but as the evidence begins to pile up, she soon realizes that there may be no choice but to take him down.  If that wasn't enough, Merci is asked by her boss to take a look at a thirty-year-old case in which another prostitute was murdered.  As she works on the second case, it soon becomes clear that the death of the two prostitutes may be connected and that higher-ups in the Sheriff Department could be involved.  It won't be long before Merci will have to make a choice as to whether or not to betray her lover and to risk her life and career by going after the men who murdered a woman three decades ago out of greed and political gain.  RED LIGHT is a powerful character study of a female police officer who must combat her own personal demons, while at the same time seeking revenge against those who murdered two women over a thirty-year time span.  Merci will find herself in a position of not knowing whom to trust and will even begin to question her own judgment.  Filled, however, with an inner strength and a dog-like determination, our heroine will throw caution to the wind and plow ahead in order to find the truth.  At the end of this journey for retribution, Merci will finally discover that truth has its price and that betrayals may take years to heal and to forgive.  T. Jefferson Parker has written a stark novel about life, death, and what it means to be a human being, demonstrating his unique gift at being able to create primary and secondary characters that live and breath...characters that come alive in such a way as to draw the reader into the story as if they were actually participating in it themselves.  All of his characters are flawed and must learn to deal with the obstacles that life throws at them.  Some will succeed and others will not.  The one theme that comes across so strongly in RED LIGHT is that we can't always do it by ourselves and must occasionally allow others to offer us a helping hand.  It demands a certain element of trust and sometimes that's the hardest thing to give.  RED LIGHT is not an action-packed novel, but rather a hard, poignant look at what it's like to be a woman who also happens to be a mother and a police officer and the choices that have to be made in a man's world.  This novel will definitely leave you wanting more, and I hope Mr. Parker will bring back Merci Rayborn for at least one more outing.as its price and that betrayals may take years to heal and to forgive.  T. Jefferson Parker has written a stark novel about life, death, and what it means to be a human being, demonstrating his unique gift at being able to create primary and secondary characters that live and breath...characters that come alive in such a way as to draw the reader into the story as if they were actually participating in it themselves.  All of his characters are flawed and must learn to deal with the obstacles that life throws at them.  Some will succeed and others will not.  The one theme that comes across so strongly in RED LIGHT is that we can't always do it by ourselves and must occasionally allow others to offer us a helping hand.  It demands a certain element of trust and sometimes that's the hardest thing to give.  RED LIGHT is not an action-packed novel, but rather a hard, poignant look at what it's like to be a woman who also happens to be a mother and a police officer and the choices that have to be made in a man's world.  This novel will definitely leave you wanting more, and I hope Mr. Parker will bring back Merci Rayborn for at least one more outing.	2001-06-08
US	49187160	R9DE8M1XECV9N	0553576666	56620377	The Next President	Books	5	3	4	N	N	JOSEPH FLYNN HAS ANOTHER WINNER IN THE BAG!!	Joseph Flynn, the author of DIGGER, delivers another winner with his newest book, THE NEXT PRESIDENT.  This is the story of J.D. Cade, a former sniper and assassin for the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War.  After thirty years of trying to live a good life and raise a family, Cade's past has finally caught up with him.  Certain members of the United States government want to use Cade's ability as a sniper to assassinate Senator F.D. Rawley, an African-American of integrity and determination who may very well become the first black president.  To coerce Cade into committing murder, the life of his twenty-one-year old son, Evan, is threatened.  The desire to protect his family is enough to propel Cade down a path he'd rather not take.  His first attempt on Rawley's life comes close to succeeding, but an unexpected incident forces Cade to devise another plan that will bring him much nearer to the presidential candidate.  He intends on infiltrating Rawley's presidential campaign by contributing a large sum of money, thereby getting his foot in the door with the possibility of personally meeting the candidate.  What Cade doesn't anticipate is that he will grow to admire and respect F.D. Rawley, finding himself torn between wanting to protect his son and wanting to see this great man become the next president of the United States.  While Cade attempts to figure out a way to save his family without assassinating the good Senator, his son, Evan, is back home in Illinois trying to stay alive long enough to find out why he is being framed for a murder he didn't commit...a murder that could once again start up a bloody feud between two families.  When the moment finally arrives, will Cade be able to kill Senator Rawley, or will he be able to find a way out of his deadly dilemma and save the day?  In THE NEXT PRESIDENT, Mr. Flynn has crafted a fascinating multi-layered novel that has several plots going at the same time and keeps the reader guessing right up to the end.  The pace is fast and suspenseful, and there are a number of secondary characters that prove to be almost as interesting as the main ones.  There's Daniel DeVito, the Secret Service agent who's instincts tell him that Cade is up to no good and is determined to be there when he makes a wrong move and Blair McCray, a police officer, who's father was murdered by J.D. Cade over thirty years before and now thinks that Evan may have killed his cousin. One theme that definitely stands out through the entire novel is the importance of family.  When the people who are your blood are threatened, a person will do whatever it takes to protect them.  This can lead to a fifty-year feud between two families, the assassination of a United States Senator, and a presidential candidate putting his own life on the line to save his grandson.  THE NEXT PRESIDENT proves itself to be a worthy follow up to Joseph Flynn's second novel, DIGGER.  This is an author who has the beginning of fabulous career ahead of him, and I certainly look forward to his next novel when it comes out.  One last note, Mr. Flynn's first novel, THE CONCRET INQUISITION, is being reprinted this fall by Bantam Books.  Be on the lookout for it!e is fast and suspenseful, and there are a number of secondary characters that prove to be almost as interesting as the main ones.  There's Daniel DeVito, the Secret Service agent who's instincts tell him that Cade is up to no good and is determined to be there when he makes a wrong move and Blair McCray, a police officer, who's father was murdered by J.D. Cade over thirty years before and now thinks that Evan may have killed his cousin. One theme that definitely stands out through the entire novel is the importance of family.  When the people who are your blood are threatened, a person will do whatever it takes to protect them.  This can lead to a fifty-year feud between two families, the assassination of a United States Senator, and a presidential candidate putting his own life on the line to save his grandson.  THE NEXT PRESIDENT proves itself to be a worthy follow up to Joseph Flynn's second novel, DIGGER.  This is an author who has the beginning of fabulous career ahead of him, and I certainly look forward to his next novel when it comes out.  One last note, Mr. Flynn's first novel, THE CONCRET INQUISITION, is being reprinted this fall by Bantam Books.  Be on the lookout for it!	2001-06-04
US	49187160	ROVXOCQMIIRJI	0684862859	300965391	Force 12	Books	5	2	3	N	N	AN ADVENTURE IN THE GRAND TRADITION OF ALISTAIR MACLEAN!!	James Thayer wrote two novels (WHITE STAR &amp; FIVE PAST MIDNIGHT) that are on my top-20 list of most favorite thrillers.  Now, he's written FORCE 12, a novel of intense drama and unbelievable courage as man takes on the sea.  FORCE 12 is actually made up of three stories that come together in a stunning, climatic ending that will leave the reader feeling as if he's just gone over a water fall in the dead of winter and has almost drowned several times before being pulled out of the water by a set of strong hands. The first story deals with Rex Wyman, a billionaire who's going broke and has once last chance to save his software company, World Quest. Wyman has set up the world's longest and most dangerous yacht race, starting in San Francisco and ending in Japan, and passing through the Bering Sea at the onset of winter. The top ocean racers will be competing. Wyman, however, has the race locked up. There's no doubt in his mind that his yacht, Victory, will win, especially with his genius of a computer engineer, Gwen Weld, on board. In fact, the purpose of the race is to demonstrate to the world the newest technological and software achievements that have been installed on Victory by World Quest, enabling it to function by computer alone. The second story concerns itself with Lonnie Garvin, a fisherman who's afraid of nothing and has worked the harshest seas. Because of serious financial problems, Garvin is about to lose his ocean-going crabber, Hornet, to the creditors. As the Bering Sea begins to claim the lives of those who were foolish enough to pit their feeble skills against it, Garvin receives an offer over the radio that may just save him from financial ruin, but he will have to risk the lives of his crew and the possible destruction of his boat in order to carry out the rescue. The third story is about Jess McKay, one of the toughest members of the 212th Rescue Squadron. As a teenager, he watched his older brother drown in a raging river, afraid to risk his own life to save him. Since then he has been trying to balance the scales by putting his life on the line to save others. Trained as well as any Green Beret or Navy SEAL, Jess may have taken on more than he can chew when he has to helicopter in to the Bering Sea to rescue the woman he's fallen in love with, during the worse storm of the century. It's going to take all of his strength and courage to save her and to get back to safety. FORCE 12 is what's known in the movie industry as a \\"slow burn.\\" It moves slowly at first by introducing the main characters and the important plot elements, then gradually builds to a roaring inferno that threatens to annihilate everyone within its path. I know absolutely nothing about yacht racing and what it takes to actually make the journey around the world, braving the elements with human skill and superior design. Therefore, I found myself utterly engrossed in the details that Mr. Thayer presents to the reader, especially with regards to the countless dangers any sailor must deal with while on the sea. Also, for any \\"action\\" novel to succeed with me, it must have a hero who's capable of facing insurmountable odds in order to save the person he loves or to complete the mission. This has to be a person with honor and perhaps a weakness that offsets him from the rest of the crowd. Such is the character of Jess McKay. A novel must also have a strong villain who equals the hero in tenacity and determination. Quite often the villain doesn't view himself as evil, but rather as a person who's doing what's necessary to protect himself, his family, his company, or even his country. They believe that the end justifies the means. In FORCE 12, it could be argued that that the Bering Sea is the true adversary, but Rex Wyman, for me, takes center stage with his arrogance and his desire to win, no matter what the costs to others. Because of him, as well as a hidden enemy who seeks revenge, a lot of people will die in this book, some deserving the karma that's dealt to them. I certainly enjoyed how the author was able to blend all of the plot points together, directing them on a collision course, and creating a climax that literally had me sitting on the edge of my seat. After the novel was over, I even found myself pacing around the living room for a few minutes, still filled with the sharp rush of its ending. Strange as it may seem, Mr. Thayer seems to feel that he has yet to get it right when writing a novel. I'm here to say that few people do it better than he does. His prose is excellent, his story lines are always thrilling and suspenseful, and his characters come to life in a way few other authors are able to achieve. I'm always at a lost when his books don't hit the bestseller lists, though I know it's only a matter of time before one finally hits the bull's-eye. If you like ocean-going adventures with an in-your-face finale that crackles with adrenaline and suspense, then pick up FORCE 12. If you love action-packed thrillers that will have you ducking from snipers or hiding from the Gestapo, then pick up James Thayer's other novels, WHITE STAR &amp; FIVE PAST MIDNIGHT.  You won't be disappointed.e karma that's dealt to them. I certainly enjoyed how the author was able to blend all of the plot points together, directing them on a collision course, and creating a climax that literally had me sitting on the edge of my seat. After the novel was over, I even found myself pacing around the living room for a few minutes, still filled with the sharp rush of its ending. Strange as it may seem, Mr. Thayer seems to feel that he has yet to get it right when writing a novel. I'm here to say that few people do it better than he does. His prose is excellent, his story lines are always thrilling and suspenseful, and his characters come to life in a way few other authors are able to achieve. I'm always at a lost when his books don't hit the bestseller lists, though I know it's only a matter of time before one finally hits the bull's-eye. If you like ocean-going adventures with an in-your-face finale that crackles with adrenaline and suspense, then pick up FORCE 12. If you love action-packed thrillers that will have you ducking from snipers or hiding from the Gestapo, then pick up James Thayer's other novels, WHITE STAR &amp; FIVE PAST MIDNIGHT.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-05-28
US	49187160	R35DXDK377EHR3	0380730081	360535006	The Bannerman Solution (Bannerman Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A FANTASTIC READ THAT LEAVES YOU WANTING MORE!	When I ran across THE BANNERMAN SOLUTION a few weeks ago, its premise of a group of government assassins retiring to a small Connecticut town and trying to live in peace sounded rather intriguing.  I read the reviews on it and then made the decision to give Mr. Maxim a shot.  I'm happy to say that I found myself hooked in the first couple of pages and that the novel proved to be one of the most original and best spy thrillers that I've read during the past year.  The story begins by introducing the reader to retired NYPD cop, Raymond Lesko, who's being visited in his dreams by the ghost of his former partner (David Katz).  It seems that Katz was ripping off a certain group of drug dealers and was later murdered by them to set an example.  Lesko, perhaps the toughest cop on the NYC police force, got revenge by shooting the two men who killed his partner while they were at a meeting with Elena, a beautiful, aristocratic woman who ordered the actual hit on Katz.  For some strange reason that Lesko couldn't explain, even to himself, he allowed Elena to live.  It wasn't long before rumors started to spread that it was Lesko who took out the two drug dealers and that he allowed Elena to walk away because she bought him off.  The rumors eventually forced Lesko to seek an early retirement and to take a job as a security consultant for a local hotel firm.  Now, what does all of this have to do with Paul Bannerman and his group of retired government operatives?  Well, when Lesko's daughter, Susan, who happens to be a newspaper reporter, decides to investigate the unusually high number of deaths in Westport, Connecticut, she comes to the attention of Bannerman while visiting the town.  Since his people are behind most of the deaths that have occurred, he makes it a point to meet Susan in order to find out exactly how much she knows.  One thing gradually leads to another, and the two of them begin what will soon become a serious relationship, much to the dismay of Paul's friends.  This wouldn't be so bad, except that when Bannerman refuses to work for Palmer Reid, a high-ranking member of the CIA, it's decided that Bannerman and his people are too dangerous to be left alive.  Once Reid discovers that Bannerman is involved with Lesko's daughter, he sees a connection that could tie Bannerman to Elena and the South American drug cartel, giving him the excuse needed to take everyone out.  Bannerman and his highly skilled team of operatives aren't going to be easy to kill, especially when Lesko joins them in an attempt to keep his daughter alive, but Palmer Reid has the resources of the Agency behind him and is a very determined man.  THE BANNERMAN SOLUTION is definitely an original masterpiece in the \\"spy\\" genre.  Filled with drama, action, and a mixture of humor, it explores an area that has seldom been touched on in fiction.  What does happen to government assassins when they reach the retirement age?  Does the DIA and the CIA take care of its own, or do they try to eliminate the men and women who have served their country so well?  What would happen if a small group of top operatives decided it was time to quit and wanted to live the rest of their lives in relative peace, but our government wouldn't let them?  John R. Maxim's novel delves into these areas and what it would be like for these bringers of death to try and settle down into a normal life.  I found the novel to not only be suspenseful, packed with a tremendous amount of action, and fun to read, but also fascinating in its concept.  Bannerman, as well as each of his team members, were carefully drawn with their own unique personality and area of expertise.  These characters are killers, and they came alive for me in ways I'd never have expected.  I have to add that Raymond Lesko, while only a retired cop, proved to be a match for Bannerman and quickly earned his respect.  The bad guys are also interesting, especially some of the agents working under Reid who actually feel a senseof hero worship for Bannerman and his crew because they are legends in the intelligence community.  Mr. Maxim has a profound way of weaving complex scenarios and then tying up each one neatly by the end of the book, leaving the reader feeling satisfied with the final solutions, and I should also point out the his style of writing is a pure pleasure to read, adding to the enjoyment of the novel.  I liked THE BANNERMAN SOLUTION so much, that I've already purchased the other three novels in the series.  For fans of the \\"spy\\" genre, this is a must-read book!!!  Buy it, savor the reading experience, then rush out and buy the other \\"Bannerman\\" novels.e of hero worship for Bannerman and his crew because they are legends in the intelligence community.  Mr. Maxim has a profound way of weaving complex scenarios and then tying up each one neatly by the end of the book, leaving the reader feeling satisfied with the final solutions, and I should also point out the his style of writing is a pure pleasure to read, adding to the enjoyment of the novel.  I liked THE BANNERMAN SOLUTION so much, that I've already purchased the other three novels in the series.  For fans of the \\"spy\\" genre, this is a must-read book!!!  Buy it, savor the reading experience, then rush out and buy the other \\"Bannerman\\" novels.	2001-05-07
US	49187160	RXQ9SJTKZQ4LX	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	2	2	N	N	THE BEST P.I. IN THE BUSINESS IS BACK!!!	For me, the publication of a new \\"Spenser\\" novel is like opening presents on Christmas morning!  There's always the instant rush of anticipation and excitement.  In Robert Parker's newest edition to the series, POTSHOT, our Boston P.I. is hired by Mary Lou Buckman to investigate the murder of her husband.  The Buckmans had moved from Los Angeles to Potshot, Arizona in order to run a small travel service; but, when Steve Buckman refused to pay protection money to a gang of roughnecks called the Dell, he was shot to death in broad daylight on Potshot's main boulevard.  Spenser decides to take the case and flies out to Arizona to do a little investigating.  What he soon discovers is that Mary Lou slept around with a number of men who might have wanted to see her husband dead; that the Dell (led by a man called The Preacher) is scaring folks out of Potshot; that someone is buying up the property at an alarming rate; and that he can't take on the Dell by himself.  Flying back to Boston, Spenser enlists the aid of Hawk and Vinnie Morris.  He then travels around the country to recruit Chollo, Tedy Sapp and a couple of other tough guys to help him fight the Dell.  While his posse heads to Potshot, Spenser continues to check into the background of the Buckmans and discovers some things that begin to shed light on the situation in the small Arizona town.  Before anything can be done, however, the Preacher and his gang of cutthroats must be dealt with.  The showdown between Spenser, his men, and the forty-or-so members of the Dell is definitely worth the price of the book.  What POTSHOT does is bring several of Spenser's acquaintances together in one story to pit them against a larger force.  It's fun to read as Hawk and Vinnie and Tedy and Chollo try to outdo each other in the \\"toughness\\" arena.  Of course, we know that Hawk and Spenser could've taken on the gang by themselves and won.  Still, it's great to see all of these other characters from past novels come together to interact with each other.  I do wish the novel had been longer with more confrontations with the Dell before the final shootout.  As usual, Parker's dialogue is crisp and funny.  Spenser still has his sense of wit and humor, and isn't afraid to use it in front of the bad guys.  That's probably one of the best things about Spenser, besides his code of honor.  I will say that the ending left me a little confused.  Without giving it away, I'm still not exactly sure who killed Steve Buckman.  It could have been one of two people.  All in all, reading POTSHOT is a wonderful way to spend an evening.  It's like getting together with an old friend for a few hours and reminiscing about the past year.  Life doesn't get much better than this.nteract with each other.  I do wish the novel had been longer with more confrontations with the Dell before the final shootout.  As usual, Parker's dialogue is crisp and funny.  Spenser still has his sense of wit and humor, and isn't afraid to use it in front of the bad guys.  That's probably one of the best things about Spenser, besides his code of honor.  I will say that the ending left me a little confused.  Without giving it away, I'm still not exactly sure who killed Steve Buckman.  It could have been one of two people.  All in all, reading POTSHOT is a wonderful way to spend an evening.  It's like getting together with an old friend for a few hours and reminiscing about the past year.  Life doesn't get much better than this.	2001-04-30
US	49187160	R1P86FPAA5WQWQ	0843948574	235941502	Naomi	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A SUPERNATURAL TALE OF  WITCHCRAFT AND REINCARNATION!!	In Douglas Clegg's newest paperback novel, NAOMI, Jake Richmond has moved to Manhattan to escape the ugly memories of Carthage, Virginia.  It was in Carthage that Jake fell in love with his childhood friend, Naomi Cross.  When something bad happened to Naomi as a teenager...something that she couldn't even talk to Jake about, she eventually left and moved to New York City.  It wasn't long before Jake followed her.  Though Jake looked for his lost love, he never found her until it was too late.  Instead, he started a career as a writer, got married, and had a wonderful child.  When Jake's wife leaves him for another man, he once more begins his search for Naomi, only to find out that she committed suicide by jumping in front of a subway train a few months before.  The body of Naomi may have been torn apart by the train, but not her spirit for she is destined to return to help destroy an evil that caused her death hundreds of years before when she was a young girl, living on a plantation in old New York.  In order to win this battle, Naomi's spirit will need the help of Jake, as well as the help of a woman named Maddy (who owns an old brownstone in Manhattan where the bones of several murdered witches are found buried beneath the basement floor) and a homeless boy who calls himself Romeo and knows the subway tunnels like the back of his hand.  All the players are gradually drawn together to finish their roles in a drama that was started in a previous lifetime, and only a few of them will survive the final confrontation between light and darkness.  While not having the action and intensity of YOU COME WHEN I CALL, Mr. Clegg's newest book has great characters that drive the story forward and a premise that held my interest.  The author is extremely skillful when writing about the ambiance of teenage life, especially where young love is concerned.  He's able to capture the innocence, the hope, and the melancholy with stark clarity that brought back memories of my younger years.  Mr. Clegg also knows how to weave the intricate details of a story, creating an atmosphere of suspense and dread that permeates each layer of narrative as it gradually unfolds.  I found myself loving the characters of Jake and Naomi, wishing that they could have found each other as adults and fulfilled the possibilities that their long relationship seemed to promise.  I also liked the details of Manhattan's subterranean caverns that house the old subway tunnels, and where hundreds, if not thousands, of homeless people live.  I found the City of the Forbidden where the Serpent (evil incarnate) lives underneath Manhattan to be well-drawn and frightening in nature.  I did think, however, the ending was a little too quick and that the novel could've used another twenty pages or so to wrap things up in greater detail.  Anyway, I believe NAOMI is a wonderful weekend read and is recommended to those who enjoy a well-written tale of the supernatural.  Though Mr. Clegg has yet to write his breakout novel (a novel that hits the top ten on the bestseller lists), I feel confident that it will soon happen.  This author has a talent that keeps drawing me back to him.  There's only one thing I would like to say to Mr. Clegg: please work something out with your previous publisher and have your out-of-print novels reprinted for your growing mass of fans.  You have several that I would like to read.  Perhaps Leisure Books could buy the publishing rights and print them under their logo.  These would certainly add to your popularity as an author.years.  Mr. Clegg also knows how to weave the intricate details of a story, creating an atmosphere of suspense and dread that permeates each layer of narrative as it gradually unfolds.  I found myself loving the characters of Jake and Naomi, wishing that they could have found each other as adults and fulfilled the possibilities that their long relationship seemed to promise.  I also liked the details of Manhattan's subterranean caverns that house the old subway tunnels, and where hundreds, if not thousands, of homeless people live.  I found the City of the Forbidden where the Serpent (evil incarnate) lives underneath Manhattan to be well-drawn and frightening in nature.  I did think, however, the ending was a little too quick and that the novel could've used another twenty pages or so to wrap things up in greater detail.  Anyway, I believe NAOMI is a wonderful weekend read and is recommended to those who enjoy a well-written tale of the supernatural.  Though Mr. Clegg has yet to write his breakout novel (a novel that hits the top ten on the bestseller lists), I feel confident that it will soon happen.  This author has a talent that keeps drawing me back to him.  There's only one thing I would like to say to Mr. Clegg: please work something out with your previous publisher and have your out-of-print novels reprinted for your growing mass of fans.  You have several that I would like to read.  Perhaps Leisure Books could buy the publishing rights and print them under their logo.  These would certainly add to your popularity as an author.	2001-04-29
US	49187160	R1GVBXHIIXX8NH	0553583204	16794457	The 4 Phase Man	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	THE BEST SPY THRILLER TO COME ALONG IN OVER TWO DECADES!!	Gerald &quot;Xenos&quot; Goldman used to be a member of the DIA's legendary &quot;4-Phase Man&quot; program...a program designed to create the ultimate super spies who were capable of intelligence gathering, electronic warfare, counterintelligence and assassination. Only a handful of men ever made it through the program. Goldman was one of the few and one of the best. In time, however, he became disillusioned with the lies, the betrayals, and the killings. He walked away from his job and the intelligence community to start his life over again, and hopefully to make amends for the things he'd done. When Goldman's friend, Franco (a top member of the Corsican Mafia), asks him to search for his lost nephew in New York City, our reluctant hero unintentionally becomes the target of a Chinese &quot;hit&quot; team that is led by Colin Meadows, who's also a former member of the &quot;4-Phase Man&quot; program and has now become a mercenary. It seems that Communist China has a deep-cover mole planted within the highest echelons of the U.S. government, and this person could very well be in line for the Presidency. Franco's nephew accidentally saw something that he shouldn't have and was murdered because of it by the Chinese. Now, Colin Meadows and the &quot;hit&quot; team are after Goldman and will stop at nothing to prevent him from finding out about the conspiracy, even if it means killing the people closest to him. As the bloodbath begins and Goldman realizes what he's up against, he turns to Franco and the Corsican Mafia for help. Together, they strike back against the Chinese for revenge and honor, willing to die if necessary, determined to retaliate against those who'd dare attack their families. The real question, however, is whether Goldman can survive long enough to bring down the conspiracy and to stop his former comrade from the DIA? For me, THE 4-PHASE MAN by Richard Steinberg, is without a doubt the best spy thriller I've read in the last twenty years. Not only is it filled with unbelievable action and a hero who is a cross between James Bond and Rambo, but it's also a thinking man's novel. Many readers have even compared it to Richard Condon's classic, THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. Steinberg, himself a former member of the DIA, knows the political scene and writes from knowledge and truth, elegantly capturing the intrigue and deceit that permeates the capital of our country. The author has seen firsthand the deception of other nations and how they try to gain control over the United States through the manipulation of our economy and by buying many of the politicians outright. Needless to say, this greatly adds to the authenticity of the novel, making it not only suspenseful and fast paced, but also thought provoking as well. In many ways THE 4 PHASE MAN reminded me of Robert Ludlum when he was at his best back during the seventies and early eighties. The character of Gerald Goldman is one that I thoroughly enjoyed and know the reader will enthusiastically root for. Let us hope that Mr. Steinberg will bring Gerald Goldman back in a future novels. Highly recommended!!! If I could, I'd give this novel 10-Star rating.it filled with unbelievable action and a hero who is a cross between James Bond and Rambo, but it's also a thinking man's novel. Many readers have even compared it to Richard Condon's classic, THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. Steinberg, himself a former member of the DIA, knows the political scene and writes from knowledge and truth, elegantly capturing the intrigue and deceit that permeates the capital of our country. The author has seen firsthand the deception of other nations and how they try to gain control over the United States through the manipulation of our economy and by buying many of the politicians outright. Needless to say, this greatly adds to the authenticity of the novel, making it not only suspenseful and fast paced, but also thought provoking as well. In many ways THE 4 PHASE MAN reminded me of Robert Ludlum when he was at his best back during the seventies and early eighties. The character of Gerald Goldman is one that I thoroughly enjoyed and know the reader will enthusiastically root for. Let us hope that Mr. Steinberg will bring Gerald Goldman back in a future novels. Highly recommended!!! If I could, I'd give this novel 10-Star rating.	2001-03-28
US	49187160	RF4SCMGS0QRET	0451409809	133200343	Run	Books	5	0	1	N	N	THIS NOVEL HAS &quot;BLOCKBUSTER MOVIE&quot; WRITTEN ALL OVER IT!!	RUN is the first novel by Douglas E. Winter, and it clearly demonstrates his ability to write a successful, in-your-face thriller that not only entertains, but leaves the reader lying on the floor, feeling as though he has just run the fastest mile in history.  What an adrenaline rush!  This is the story of Burdon Lane, a man who has a wonderful home, a fabulous girlfriend, and works as a professional arms dealer for UniArms.  The company he works for is actually a legitimate cover for its owner, Jules Berenger, a man who understands that the real money is in the illegal selling of weapons to whomever has the cash.  When Lane is asked to help broker an illegitimate arms deal to the 9 Bravos-a bunch of New York City gangbangers-he gets a bad feeling about the whole situation. Berenger has arranged for a Washington D.C. gang (the U Street Crew) to act as protection for the UniArms people when they meet with the 9 Bravos.  When the actual meet finally goes down, Lane's instinct proves to be true.  The arms deal is nothing but a setup for something much bigger and deadlier, and Lane is one of the people designed to take a very hard fall.  It isn't long before he's running for his life.  The Feds are after him, along with the police and his own people at UniArms.  If Lane can stay alive for the next twenty-four hours, he may have a chance of surviving, unless he suddenly decides to take his Glock 19s and go after the men who set him up to die.  RUN is like the Japanese \\"Bullet\\" train, speeding by at a 120 miles an hour.  Once you get on for the ride, there's no getting off till the last page is turned.  The character of Burdon Lane, though not your ordinary hero, does have his own code of honor and is loyal to his friends.  This doesn't mean that he's the good guy.  Lane is an expert killer, and you definitely don't want to be in his way when he comes barreling down the highway looking for revenge.  The rest of the main characters (Fiona, Jinx, CK, Daddy D and Jules Berenger) are also cleverly drawn, each with their own unique personalities that make them stand out.  Each character adds to the story line, and there are a number of surprising twists and turns that let the reader know rather quickly that no one is quite what they appear to be.  RUN is a violent novel with a high kill ratio, but it also has a strong message about guns and what they're doing to our country.  Finally, I should warn you that Mr. Winter has an unusual writing style that takes a few pages of reading to get used to.  For some reason the author doesn't like to put quotation marks around the dialogue.  This can be a little confusing at first, but it's a small price to pay for a novel of this caliber.  I highly recommend RUN to all readers who are looking for an extremely fast-paced thriller to sit down with, and I hope it won't be long before Mr. Winter surprises his fans with another novel of equal excitement.nger) are also cleverly drawn, each with their own unique personalities that make them stand out.  Each character adds to the story line, and there are a number of surprising twists and turns that let the reader know rather quickly that no one is quite what they appear to be.  RUN is a violent novel with a high kill ratio, but it also has a strong message about guns and what they're doing to our country.  Finally, I should warn you that Mr. Winter has an unusual writing style that takes a few pages of reading to get used to.  For some reason the author doesn't like to put quotation marks around the dialogue.  This can be a little confusing at first, but it's a small price to pay for a novel of this caliber.  I highly recommend RUN to all readers who are looking for an extremely fast-paced thriller to sit down with, and I hope it won't be long before Mr. Winter surprises his fans with another novel of equal excitement.	2001-03-25
US	49187160	R1L437S7YDRH5V	0380810298	110781955	Mouth to Mouth	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THIS IS AN AUTHOR TO KEEP AN EYE ON!!!	In UNDONE, Michael Kimball thrilled and surprised me with the depth and clarity of his writing, not to mention his natural skills at weaving a novel of such complexity that I was kept guessing right up till the end.  In his newest novel, MOUTH TO MOUTH, Mr. Kimball's writing reaches an even higher level of expertise, making me wonder why this New England author isn't know by more readers.  In the opening chapter of MOUTH TO MOUTH, we encounter Ellen Chambers-a schoolteacher, artist, and sheep farmer--at the wedding of her seventeen-year-old daughter, Moreen.  Ellen feels a great deal of apprehension at her daughter's marriage to Randy Cross, a man who is ten years older than Moreen, mean by nature and works as a strong-arm collector for the local loan shark.  In fact, Ellen would like nothing better than to see her son-in-law dead, until a stranger whispers into her ear that anything is possible.  The stranger turns out to be Neal Chambers, the nephew of her husband, Scott.  They haven't seen Neal in over twelve years, since the day of his father's funeral.  As it turns out, it was exactly twelve years before when Ellen caught her husband in bed with Neal's mother.  Ellen immediately informed her brother-in-law about the adulterous affair.  Later that afternoon, Neal's father, a local minister, committed suicide out of apparent shame by hanging himself from the rafters of Ellen's barn.  Neal's family never recovered from what happened.  Now, he's back, and he wants revenge against those that destroyed his life.  Seduced by her nephew's youth, good looks, and overwhelming confidence, Ellen finds herself drawn into a web of lies and betrayal that starts with sex and ends in murder.  Will Ellen be able to save herself and her family, or has Neal planned his revenge so carefully that no one will escape the sins of their past?  MOUTH TO MOUTH is a taut, suspenseful thriller that builds to an exploding climax at such a rapid pace that it will leave the reader breathless.  I was once again unable to guess or predict where the story was headed as layer after layer unfolded, presenting me with new information that took me in an entirely different direction from what I expected.  The twists and turns actually had me wondering if Ellen Chambers would make it out alive; and, if so, at what cost to her sanity and soul.  Mr. Kimball's writing is definitely that of a seasoned \\"pro\\".  It's sharp, yet smoothly textured with not a word wasted.  He also clearly understands the nature of humanity and how good people can resort to evil deeds when backed into a corner.  He's able to capture the very essence of this in explicit detail, as well as the small-town atmosphere of New England.  I have to say that the discovery of Michael Kimball during the past few months has been one of intense pleasure and purer admiration.  This is an author from Maine who will one day give Stephen King a hard run for his money.  I only hope it won't be as long before his next novel comes out.I was once again unable to guess or predict where the story was headed as layer after layer unfolded, presenting me with new information that took me in an entirely different direction from what I expected.  The twists and turns actually had me wondering if Ellen Chambers would make it out alive; and, if so, at what cost to her sanity and soul.  Mr. Kimball's writing is definitely that of a seasoned \\"pro\\".  It's sharp, yet smoothly textured with not a word wasted.  He also clearly understands the nature of humanity and how good people can resort to evil deeds when backed into a corner.  He's able to capture the very essence of this in explicit detail, as well as the small-town atmosphere of New England.  I have to say that the discovery of Michael Kimball during the past few months has been one of intense pleasure and purer admiration.  This is an author from Maine who will one day give Stephen King a hard run for his money.  I only hope it won't be as long before his next novel comes out.	2001-03-19
US	49187160	RCJGEUNE9HS5Q	0312971087	388326298	The Sands of Sakkara	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A SUPERB WORLD WAR II THRILLER!!!	It's the fall of 1943.  Allied bombing is slowly destroying the city of Berlin, and the Third Reich is drawing to an end.  In desperation, SS General Walter Schellenberg comes up with a brilliant plan to assassinate the United States president when both Roosevelt and Churchill attend the conference in Cairo to discuss the invasion plans for Europe.  With the approval of Hitler, the plan is to have Jack Halder (a man of German/American descent and the Abwehr's best field agent) infiltrate Cairo and prepare the way for a crack team of German SS paratroops to fly in and carry out the assassination.  Jack has to find out exactly where Roosevelt is staying and then figure out how to get around the security measures to kill him.  He'll have the help of Rachel Stern, a woman he once loved and who has been in a concentration camp for the past four years.  Both Jack and Rachel lived in Cairo during the late Thirties and know the city like the back of their hand.  They have also been told that if they don't succeed in this vital mission, members of their families will be killed as punishment.  There's no turning back for the two of them.  In Cairo, Harry Weaver, an officer in U.S. military intelligence, gets wind of the plot to assassinate the American president and is determined to stop it at all cost.  What Harry doesn't realize is that he may have to kill the man who was once his best friend and the woman who stole his heart in order to prevent the assassination.  Harry, Jack and Rachel have no way of knowing the strange path that destiny has chosen for them to follow, nor how they will react when the moment of truth arrives.  THE SANDS OF SAKKARA by Glenn Meade is a crisp, cat-and-mouth thriller that brings back fond memories of the early novels of Alistair MacLean and Jack Higgins.  Though the final outcome of the novel might be predictable to some readers, the actual fun is the journey of getting there.  Both Jack and Harry are honorable and brave men who must overcome insurmountable odds to accomplish their missions, not to mention having to eventually choose between duty and friendship.  The two men are also still in love with Rachel Stern and will do whatever it takes to keep her from harm's way.  I found myself really liking the characters of Harry Weaver and Jack Halder, and was surprisingly moved by the ending of the book.  I also enjoyed the play of historical facts with fiction and how Mr. Meade was able to weave them together into a suspenseful novel, while at the same time perfectly capturing the atmosphere of both wartime Cairo and Berlin.  All in all, THE SANDS OF SAKKARA is an excellent weekend read that's filled with adventure, heroism, treachery, and romance.insurmountable odds to accomplish their missions, not to mention having to eventually choose between duty and friendship.  The two men are also still in love with Rachel Stern and will do whatever it takes to keep her from harm's way.  I found myself really liking the characters of Harry Weaver and Jack Halder, and was surprisingly moved by the ending of the book.  I also enjoyed the play of historical facts with fiction and how Mr. Meade was able to weave them together into a suspenseful novel, while at the same time perfectly capturing the atmosphere of both wartime Cairo and Berlin.  All in all, THE SANDS OF SAKKARA is an excellent weekend read that's filled with adventure, heroism, treachery, and romance.	2001-03-12
US	49187160	R2WQ5GWAVK7JMB	0425174670	109331907	Blackheart Highway	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A NOVEL THAT PACKS A HARD PUNCH!!!	In BLACKHEART HIGHWAY, the fourth novel in the \\"Wil Hardesty\\" P.I. series, Richard Barre takes our middle-aged, Vietnam vet, surfing detective to Bakersfield, California with his new girlfriend, Kari Thayer, who has to attend the Association of Television Production Professionals convention being held there (my only question is why would anyone want to hold a convention in Bakersfield?).  While Kari is at the convention, Hardesty decides to visit a local bookstore and inadvertently gets involved in an attempted robbery.  His heroism draws the attention of local lawyer, Lute DeVillbis, who wants to hire Hardesty to get rid of Doc Lee Whitney.  Doc Whitney, who was once a country music star back in the seventies, is back in town after spending twenty years in prison for the murder of his wife and two children.  Few people are happy to see Doc back, and some are anxious to be rid of him once and for all.  It seems that Doc's father, Gib, along with the help of DeVillbis, used to be in the business of scamming rich people out of their money by selling them worthless land that supposedly had oil on it.  When Gib Whitney mysteriously disappeared in the late sixties, Rye Rossert stepped into the picture from out of nowhere and took his place as the partner of Lute DeVillbis.  Together, they began to buy land with oil on it and eventually became millionaires.  Now, there's an oil deal getting ready to go down that could be worth hundreds of millions of dollars to both Rossert and DeVillbis, and the oil happens to on the land Gib Whitney once owned.  It isn't long before Hardesty begins to suspect that maybe Doc Whitney didn't kill his family...that he was set up so that his father's land could be taken.  When Hardesty is fired by DeVillbis, he must decide whether or not to help Whitney; and, once a decision is made, stay alive long enough to get to the truth.  BLACKHEART HIGHWAY clearly demonstrates that Richard Barre is getting better and better with each novel.  The writing is sharper, the characters more richly drawn, and the novel more intricately detailed with twists that surprised even me.  The reader becomes closer to Wil Hardesty, understanding that the relationship with his ex-wife is slowly drawing to an end, and that the relationship with his new girlfriend could be in its final stages, due to her young son's dislike of him.  Hardesty comes across as a real person who has problems just like everybody else and occasionally makes the wrong decision that sometimes cost other people their lives.  Wil Hardesty isn't a superhero; he's simply a man trying to do his job, while dealing with the nuances of everyday life.  If you enjoy reading books in the \\"P.I.\\" genre, then pickup a copy of BLACKHEART HIGHWAY, but don't forget the first three novels in the series: THE INNOCENTS, BEARING SECRETS and THE GHOSTS OF MORNING.  Richard Barre is definitely on his way to being placed amongst the top writers in the field.ng is sharper, the characters more richly drawn, and the novel more intricately detailed with twists that surprised even me.  The reader becomes closer to Wil Hardesty, understanding that the relationship with his ex-wife is slowly drawing to an end, and that the relationship with his new girlfriend could be in its final stages, due to her young son's dislike of him.  Hardesty comes across as a real person who has problems just like everybody else and occasionally makes the wrong decision that sometimes cost other people their lives.  Wil Hardesty isn't a superhero; he's simply a man trying to do his job, while dealing with the nuances of everyday life.  If you enjoy reading books in the \\"P.I.\\" genre, then pickup a copy of BLACKHEART HIGHWAY, but don't forget the first three novels in the series: THE INNOCENTS, BEARING SECRETS and THE GHOSTS OF MORNING.  Richard Barre is definitely on his way to being placed amongst the top writers in the field.	2001-03-06
US	49187160	R2IJ4P8XI5VKF8	044022490X	436424165	This Far, No Further	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A STARK, EXCITING DEBUT INTO THE P.I. GENRE!	Ten years ago, Harding failed to protect a young girl from her sexually abusive father.  He went after the man and revenge ended up costing him  one-and-a-half years in prison, not to mention his private investigator's  license.  Nowadays, he does work on the side for his old friend, Donnie  Wilson.  The case Harding is presently working on consists of getting the  goods on one Dr. Stephen Rosenberg, whose wife, Elenya, is looking for a  divorce and possibly access to the supposedly two million dollars hidden in  a Swiss Bank account.  Dr. Rosenberg is an adulterer to the tenth degree.  He not only cheats on his wife with other women, but with men as well,  getting heavily into S&amp;M and other forms of kinky sex.  It doesn't take  Harding long to get the pictures that will insure Elenya an easy divorce  and a nice settlement.  The only problem is that someone else is after the  good doctor...someone so despicably evil that he makes the Rosenberg's  escapades look like a day at a church picnic.  This monster, for want of a  better word, calls himself Gaelen, and he is gruesomely killing everyone  Rosenberg has been sexually involved with in an effort to set the doctor up  for murder.  When Harding starts getting too close to what is going on,  Gaelen comes after him and his tough kickboxing partner, Alison.  After a  couple of encounters with this creature, one of which puts Alison in the  hospital, Harding, who isn't an easy man to scare, knows that he is going  to have to put this demon from Hell down the hard way, even if he has to  drive a stake through his heart.  Harding will also have to figure out why  Gaelen is so interested Dr. Rosenberg and his wife, Elenya, and what the  hidden agendas are.  THIS FAR, NO FURTHER by John Wessel demonstrates what  top quality writing is about.  The reader is not a bystander on this  journey through the gritty side of Chicago and into the heart of  unthinkable evil, but rather a participant.  You will literally feel the  depraved evil of Gaelen and understand why the fear it generates in our  hero makes Harding a more dangerous adversary.  Mr. Wessel lets us know  that a person never entirely escapes their past, and for Harding, it must  come full circle.  As he attempts to keep himself, Alison, and the  Rosenbergs alive, Harding has to eventually face the results of a passed  action, and in doing so, perhaps find redemption for his failure to live up  to his own expectations.  Few authors are able to write such a compelling  novel on their first try out, but John Wessel succeeds wonderfully in THIS  FAR, NO FURTHER.  Its darkness will remind you of the earlier \\"Burke\\"  novels by Andrew Vachss and the later \\"Matthew Scudder\\" books by Lawrence  Block.  Buy this book, read it, and then pick up the second novel in the  \\"Harding\\" series, PRETTY BALLERINA.  After that, you  going to have pray  like I'm doing, that John Wessel will to write more books.depraved evil of Gaelen and understand why the fear it generates in our  hero makes Harding a more dangerous adversary.  Mr. Wessel lets us know  that a person never entirely escapes their past, and for Harding, it must  come full circle.  As he attempts to keep himself, Alison, and the  Rosenbergs alive, Harding has to eventually face the results of a passed  action, and in doing so, perhaps find redemption for his failure to live up  to his own expectations.  Few authors are able to write such a compelling  novel on their first try out, but John Wessel succeeds wonderfully in THIS  FAR, NO FURTHER.  Its darkness will remind you of the earlier \\"Burke\\"  novels by Andrew Vachss and the later \\"Matthew Scudder\\" books by Lawrence  Block.  Buy this book, read it, and then pick up the second novel in the  \\"Harding\\" series, PRETTY BALLERINA.  After that, you  going to have pray  like I'm doing, that John Wessel will to write more books.	2000-08-23
US	49187160	R1THN38BOE3PV6	0553581880	197113220	Nobody's Safe	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	&quot;IT TAKES A THIEF&quot; MEETS &quot;THE X-FILES&quot;!	Like most of the people who have already reviewed NOBODY'S SAFE by Richard Steinberg, I purchased it because I enjoyed his first novel, THE GEMINI MAN. Unlike most of the reviewers, however, I had the advantage of having read the reviews beforehand, so at least I knew what to expect when I bought the book. This certainly helped prepare me for the last third of the novel. NOBODY'S SAFE is the story of the world's greatest cat burglar, Gregory Picaro. There's no domicile, building, facility of any kind, or safe that he can't get into. He is the best! When Picaro, against his better judgment, decides to break into the penhouse apartment of Jack Kerry, he gets more than he bargained for. Kerry and his girlfriend arrive back home unexpectedly while our master thief is still busy getting into one of the two safes hidden in the apartment. He's not worried about the couple. He simply continues his work while they have drinks and then make love out in the living room. It's when the second party arrives unannounced that Picaro decides to hide in the bedroom closet. The new party of people consists of retired government employee, Kilbourne, and two assassins. They ask Kerry a few questions, then cold-bloodedly kill the couple, and begin their search of the apartment for any information that deals with an assignment both Kilbourne and Kerry were involved in over fifty years ago. Not finding anything in the initial ransacking of the place, the assassins decide that it might be best if they go ahead and dispose of the two dead people, then come back and do a more thorough search. While they are gone, Picaro comes out of hiding and breaks into the second safe, finding what the killers were after. Unfortunately, before he can get safely out of the apartment, the killers come back and see him. He still does the impossible and escapes, but now Kilbourne knows that there is a witness to the murders...a witness who also happens to have some very valuable papers. From that point on, Picaro is literally running for his life. The government will stop at nothing to kill him and retrieve the stolen papers. What is this valuable information, and why are so many people afraid of it becoming public knowledge? Well, it has to do with an incident that happened in Roswell, New Mexico in 1947 and the government cover-up which followed. What Kilbourne and his organization doesn't realize, until it's too late, is that Picaro won't be a victim for anybody. He's a fighter, and he will kill if necessary. Hurt him or one of his friends, and he'll come after you with a vengeance. The first two-thirds of NOBODY'S SAFE is some of the best writing I've ever read in an action/thriller/suspense novel. It had me sitting on the edge of my seat for several hours. There are enough twists and turns to keep your head spinning as you vainly attempt to guess where the story is headed. The last third of the book, however, drifts somewhat into &quot;la-la land&quot;. Thankfully, because I knew what to expect (due to the book reviews)and am somewhat familiar with Area 51 here in Nevada, I found myself enjoying Picaro's encounter with Joe and Max. That doesn't mean that I bought the scenario, only that I enjoyed reading it. You can shake your head at an author's audacity, but still get caught up in the momentum of the story telling. The book, as a whole, is definitely worth buying. The reason is Gregory Picaro. He's simply a great character, and I hope Mr. Steinberg will bring him back in a future novel. But please, no more aliens!aro is literally running for his life. The government will stop at nothing to kill him and retrieve the stolen papers. What is this valuable information, and why are so many people afraid of it becoming public knowledge? Well, it has to do with an incident that happened in Roswell, New Mexico in 1947 and the government cover-up which followed. What Kilbourne and his organization doesn't realize, until it's too late, is that Picaro won't be a victim for anybody. He's a fighter, and he will kill if necessary. Hurt him or one of his friends, and he'll come after you with a vengeance. The first two-thirds of NOBODY'S SAFE is some of the best writing I've ever read in an action/thriller/suspense novel. It had me sitting on the edge of my seat for several hours. There are enough twists and turns to keep your head spinning as you vainly attempt to guess where the story is headed. The last third of the book, however, drifts somewhat into &quot;la-la land&quot;. Thankfully, because I knew what to expect (due to the book reviews)and am somewhat familiar with Area 51 here in Nevada, I found myself enjoying Picaro's encounter with Joe and Max. That doesn't mean that I bought the scenario, only that I enjoyed reading it. You can shake your head at an author's audacity, but still get caught up in the momentum of the story telling. The book, as a whole, is definitely worth buying. The reason is Gregory Picaro. He's simply a great character, and I hope Mr. Steinberg will bring him back in a future novel. But please, no more aliens!	2000-08-21
US	49187160	R2UGHZUSLX2XZO	0399146237	1083226	Running Blind	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	EX-MILITARY POLICEMAN, JACK REACHER, IS BACK IN ACTION!	RUNNING BLIND, the newest novel by Lee Child, continues the saga of ex-military policeman and drifter, Jack Reacher.  But wait!  Reacher has  settled down in this book.  He now owns a house, a four-wheel-drive  vehicle, and has the undying love of attorney, Jodie Garber, who fans will  remember from TRIPWIRE.  Is this our hero?  Is this the life he was cut out  for?  Maybe not.  Anyway, things kind of get disrupted in Reacher's life  when the FBI suddenly pull him in for questioning with regards to the  deaths of three ladies, each of whom was mysteriously murdered and left in  a bathtub of green paint.  The ladies had two things in common with each  other.  All three were involved in sexual harassment cases while still in  the Army, and each knew Jack Reacher.  One of the FBI agents, Julia Lamarr,  thinks that the killer's profile matches Reacher to a T.  If he isn't the  serial killer, then it is someone like him with a military background.  The  FBI believes that the killer will continue his spree of perfect crimes,  unless Reacher agrees to help.  The only problem is that when Reacher  finally joins the hunt, the Feds choose to ignore his advise.  He doesn't  think that it is a soldier, but they don't want to hear that.  When another  lady dies, Reacher knows that he must find the killer himself, or it simply  won't get done.  While he is visiting crime scenes and talking to potential  victims, Reacher is also trying to decide the future of his relationship  with Jodie.  Does he want to remain a &quot;settled&quot; individual, or  does he want to get back on the road again?  The first half of RUNNING  BLIND started off like a heat-seeking missile, but by the last quarter it  kind of fizzled out for me.  If the reader follows Reacher's advise about  looking for motive and who has the most to gain, they will figure out who  the killer is long before the FBI does.  Mr. Child does throw a number of  &quot;red herrings&quot; into the mix, trying to redirect the reader's  attention from who the real killer is.  One of the &quot;red herrings&quot;  more or less appears from out of nowhere, then disappears, and is never  fully explained to my satisfaction.  It was something I didn't appreciate  on Mr. Child's part.  Also, I didn't quite buy the method the killer uses  to murder his victims.  I have heard of death occurring in that particular  manner, but I just couldn't see using it to kill four different people. It  seemed far-fetched to me.  Finally, I felt that RUNNING BLIND didn't have  enough action on Reacher's part, and that the ending was a simply a little  too weak.  Now, I'll say this.  Mr. Child's first book, KILLING FLOOR, was  one of the best debut novels I have ever read, and I still highly recommend  to friends and strangers.  His last three books, however, have not been in  the same league as the first, which I find disappointing.  DIE TRYING,  TRIPWIRE and RUNNING BLIND are good reads, and I know that Mr. Child is  certainly trying to write as good a novel as possible with each succeeding  one.  I wish he could just write another one as &quot;GREAT&quot; as  KILLING FLOOR.r's  attention from who the real killer is.  One of the &quot;red herrings&quot;  more or less appears from out of nowhere, then disappears, and is never  fully explained to my satisfaction.  It was something I didn't appreciate  on Mr. Child's part.  Also, I didn't quite buy the method the killer uses  to murder his victims.  I have heard of death occurring in that particular  manner, but I just couldn't see using it to kill four different people. It  seemed far-fetched to me.  Finally, I felt that RUNNING BLIND didn't have  enough action on Reacher's part, and that the ending was a simply a little  too weak.  Now, I'll say this.  Mr. Child's first book, KILLING FLOOR, was  one of the best debut novels I have ever read, and I still highly recommend  to friends and strangers.  His last three books, however, have not been in  the same league as the first, which I find disappointing.  DIE TRYING,  TRIPWIRE and RUNNING BLIND are good reads, and I know that Mr. Child is  certainly trying to write as good a novel as possible with each succeeding  one.  I wish he could just write another one as &quot;GREAT&quot; as  KILLING FLOOR.	2000-08-18
US	49187160	RN47Z4W8NUS9B	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	THE DESERT, TORMENTED SOULS AND DEMONIC POSSESSION!	I believe that the &quot;horror&quot; genre is perhaps the hardest to write, especially at this particular time.  So many novels have been  written in the last twenty-four years (since Stephen King came upon the  scene), many of them classics in their own right, that it is difficult to  write something original, which is both scary and full of surprises.  Any  writer who makes the effort earns my respect and admiration.  A writer who  actually succeeds in producing a novel filled with all of the right  ingredients will probably have me, as well as a zillion other fans,  worshipping at their feet in absolute homage.  I mean, look at what  happened to Stephen King and Dean Koontz!  YOU COME WHEN I CALL by Douglas  Clegg is a worthy attempt.  Though it doesn't quite succeed for me on a  larger scale, there are still many excellent things to recommend about this  novel.  The story opens with Peter and Alison Chandler living in Los  Angeles and Pete Urquart in New York City.  All three people share a past  with each other...a past that has finally caught up with them and demands a  resolution.  Twenty years before, in the California desert community of  Palmetto, Peter, Alison and Charlie experienced a nightmare of abnormal  proportions, which led to the destruction of the town and its citizens.  Disguised in the body of a former evangelist, an ancient demon returns to  Palmetto to wreak havoc on its populace.  It quickly transfer itself to the  beautiful body of Wendy Swan and begins the process of gaining complete  power by seducing some of the town's teenage boys, including Peter and  Charlie.  In a relatively short amount of time, the evil spreads throughout  Palmetto, and people start murdering their friends and families, until  eventually the entire town is wiped out and then burned down.  Peter,  Alison and Charlie are the only known suvivors to have escaped.  The  teenagers think that they managed to kill the demon at the end, but deep  down in the marrow of their souls, there is a haunting sense that the evil  is still alive, biding its time until it is strong enough to strike again.  Twenty years have now gone by and all three of them are starting to  experience strange and frightful phenomenon.  They are literally being  called back to Palmetto.  Though fearful of what is awaiting them back in  the ghost town, they must nevertheless make the journey.  There is no  choice in the matter.  They can only pray that this will be the final  confrontation with the source of the evil that has plagued them for so  long.  YOU COME WHEN I CALL comes very, very close to being there for me.  Douglas Clegg certainly knows how to write some extremely descriptive and  frightening scenes.  There is one near the beginning of the novel when  Peter, as an adult, must go down into the basement of an abandoned  bungalow.  He discovers a torture chamber, filled with hanging bodies.  It's very well written and reminds me of some of Clive Barker's earlier  stuff.  There are also some scenes which take place in Palmetto before it  is destroyed that are quite vivid and definitely leave a lasting impression  on the reader's psyche.  I guess I finds the parts greater than the whole.  I loved the sections of the book which dealt with Palmetto, and I cared for  the main characters as teenagers, but not as adults.  I actually got rather  tired of their constant whining and denials, wishing that they would just  get on with what had to be done.  The ending is a little weak.  There are  no real surprises, except for the introduction of a new character.  I  suppose it is the journey that is the most important aspect of reading a  novel, rather than the arrival at the end.  I do like Mr. Clegg's style of  writing and the sense of humor that he injects into his story.  I think he  is the type of writer who will simply get better and better with each  succeeding novel, and I look forward to reading his newest book, MISCHIEF,  which will come out in September.ir souls, there is a haunting sense that the evil  is still alive, biding its time until it is strong enough to strike again.   Twenty years have now gone by and all three of them are starting to  experience strange and frightful phenomenon.  They are literally being  called back to Palmetto.  Though fearful of what is awaiting them back in  the ghost town, they must nevertheless make the journey.  There is no  choice in the matter.  They can only pray that this will be the final  confrontation with the source of the evil that has plagued them for so  long.  YOU COME WHEN I CALL comes very, very close to being there for me.   Douglas Clegg certainly knows how to write some extremely descriptive and  frightening scenes.  There is one near the beginning of the novel when  Peter, as an adult, must go down into the basement of an abandoned  bungalow.  He discovers a torture chamber, filled with hanging bodies.   It's very well written and reminds me of some of Clive Barker's earlier  stuff.  There are also some scenes which take place in Palmetto before it  is destroyed that are quite vivid and definitely leave a lasting impression  on the reader's psyche.  I guess I finds the parts greater than the whole.   I loved the sections of the book which dealt with Palmetto, and I cared for  the main characters as teenagers, but not as adults.  I actually got rather  tired of their constant whining and denials, wishing that they would just  get on with what had to be done.  The ending is a little weak.  There are  no real surprises, except for the introduction of a new character.  I  suppose it is the journey that is the most important aspect of reading a  novel, rather than the arrival at the end.  I do like Mr. Clegg's style of  writing and the sense of humor that he injects into his story.  I think he  is the type of writer who will simply get better and better with each  succeeding novel, and I look forward to reading his newest book, MISCHIEF,  which will come out in September.	2000-08-14
US	49187160	R3UXRY5R7L207A	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	THE DESERT, TORMENTED SOULS AND DEMONIC POSSESSION!	I believe that the &quot;horror&quot; genre is perhaps the hardest to write in, especially at this particular time. So many novels have been written in the last twenty-four years (since Stephen King came upon the scene), many of them classics in their own right, that it's difficult to write something original, which is both scary and full of surprises. Any writer who makes the effort earns my respect and admiration. A writer who actually succeeds in producing a novel filled with all of the right ingredients will probably have me, as well as a zillion other fans, worshipping at their feet in absolute homage. I mean, look at what happened to Stephen King and Dean Koontz! YOU COME WHEN I CALL by Douglas Clegg is definitely a worthy attempt. Though it doesn't quite succeed for me in ways I would prefer, there are still many excellent things to recommend about this novel. The story opens with Peter and Alison Chandler living in Los Angeles and Pete Urquart in New York City. All three people share a past with each other...a past that has finally caught up with them and demands a resolution. Twenty years before, in the California desert community of Palmetto, Peter, Alison and Charlie experienced a nightmare of abnormal proportions, which led to the destruction of the town and its citizens. Disguised in the body of a former evangelist, an ancient demon returns to Palmetto to wreak havoc on its populace. It quickly transfers itself to the beautiful body of Wendy Swan and begins the process of gaining complete power by seducing some of the town's teenage boys, including Peter and Charlie. In a relatively short amount of time, the evil spreads throughout Palmetto, and people start murdering their friends and families, until eventually the entire town is wiped out and then burned down. Peter, Alison and Charlie are the only known suvivors to have escaped. The teenagers think that they managed to kill the demon at the end, but deep down in the marrow of their souls, there is ahaunting sense that the evil is still alive, biding its time until it is strong enough to strike again. Twenty years have now gone by and all three of them are starting to experience strange and frightful phenomenon. They are literally being called back to Palmetto. Though fearful of what is awaiting them, they must nevertheless make the journey. There's simply no choice in the matter. They can only pray that this will be the final confrontation with the source of evil that has plagued them for so long. YOU COME WHEN I CALL comes very, very close to being there for me. Douglas Clegg certainly knows how to write some extremely descriptive and frightening scenes. There is one near the beginning of the novel when Peter, as an adult, must go down into the basement of an abandoned bungalow. He discovers a torture chamber, filled with hanging bodies. It's very well written and reminds me of some of Clive Barker's earlier stuff. There are also some scenes which take place in Palmetto before it's destroyed that are quite vivid and definitely leave a lasting impression on the reader's psyche. I guess I find the parts greater than the whole. I loved the sections of the book that dealt with Palmetto, and I cared for the main characters as teenagers, but not really as adults. I actually got rather tired of their constant whining and denials, wishing that they'd just get on with what had to be done. The ending was a little weak for me. There are no real surprises, except for the introduction of a new character. I suppose it's the journey that is the most important aspect of reading a novel, rather than the arrival at the end. Some of Stephen King's novels are like that.  I do like Mr. Clegg's style of writing and the sense of humor that he injects into his story. I think he's the type of writer who will simply get better and better with each succeeding novel, and I certainly look forward to reading more of his books.	2000-08-14
US	49187160	R1B92A3TQBJBCD	0440224012	933000105	Heartwood (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	ANOTHER WINNER FOR BURKE!	I should have purchased HEARTWOOD last year when it first came out in hardback, but I was so irritated with James Lee Burke for not writing a  &quot;Robicheaux&quot; novel that I decided to get my revenge by waiting  for the paperback to come out.  I mean, it's bad enough to have to wait a  year in between novels that have your favorite character in them, but two  years is simply intolerable.  Anyway, I just finished reading HEARTWOOD in  paperback and consider it to be one of Burke's best novels to date.  The  story deals with Billy Bob Holland (first introduced in CIMARRON ROSE), who  is an ex-Texas Ranger and assistant U.S. attorney, and who now practices  law in his home town of Deaf Smith, Texas.  When Wilbur Pickett, a  down-and-out ex-rodeo bull rider and current employee of millionaire Earl  Deitrich, is accused by his boss of stealing an antique watch and three  hundred thousand dollars in bearer bonds, Billy Bob, against his better  judgment, decides to take the case.  Wilbur freely admits to taking the  watch, but not the bonds.  This makes Billy Bob wonder if Earl has set  Wilbur up so that he can run a scam on the insurance company for the  supposedly missing bonds.  The question is why?  Earl is rich.  Why risk  something like this?  Billy Bob also has another problem to deal with.  He  is still in love with his old, teenage flame, Peggy Jean, who happens to  now be married to Earl Deitrich.  Billy Bob doesn't want to do anything  which might hurt Peggy Jean, but at the same time, he doesn't want to see  Wilbur get railroaded for something he didn't do.  It isn't long, however,  before Billy Bob has his hands full when he begins to suspect that there is  something more going on behind the scenes than the apparent theft of the  watch and bearer bonds.  What he finds out may cost him his life, as well  as the life of his son, Lucas.  HEARTWOOD is the most complex novel Mr.  Burke has written so far.  There are so many hidden layers here that I  haven't even touched the tip of the iceberg.  Billy Bob will have to deal  with gangbangers, ex-mercenaries, corruption in the local police  department, the guilt he still harbors over the death of his best friend  who he accidently killed, and the love he has for another man's wife.  HEARTWOOD is a powerful novel of love, betrayal, greed, and murder.  It is  skillfully woven with characters that burst from the pages with a life all  of their own.  You won't want the book to end...it is that good!  James Lee  Burke doesn't just write an excellent novel, he gives you a &quot;reading  experience&quot; that I wish other authors could duplicate.  Needless to  say, when the next &quot;Billy Bob Holland&quot; novel comes out, I won't  wait for the paperback.ven touched the tip of the iceberg.  Billy Bob will have to deal  with gangbangers, ex-mercenaries, corruption in the local police  department, the guilt he still harbors over the death of his best friend  who he accidently killed, and the love he has for another man's wife.   HEARTWOOD is a powerful novel of love, betrayal, greed, and murder.  It is  skillfully woven with characters that burst from the pages with a life all  of their own.  You won't want the book to end...it is that good!  James Lee  Burke doesn't just write an excellent novel, he gives you a &quot;reading  experience&quot; that I wish other authors could duplicate.  Needless to  say, when the next &quot;Billy Bob Holland&quot; novel comes out, I won't  wait for the paperback.	2000-08-12
US	49187160	R1XXFG2WU7WQPS	0688166180	579504921	The Devil's Workshop: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	BIO-WEAPONS &amp; RIDING THE RAILS--DO I HEAR A HALLELJAH?	Stephen J. Cannell, while one of the most prestigious writers and producers in the television industry, is quickly making a mark for himself  as a novelist.  In his newest book, THE DEVIL'S WORKSHOP, he takes the  reader into the world of microbiology and the apparent dangers a bio-weapon  can represent in the hands of the wrong people.  The story deals with  Stacey Richardson, a graduate student in the field of microbiology at USC.  When her husband, Max, supposedly commits suicide while on a sabbatical at  Fort Detrick, Maryland, to do research with the famous Dr. Dexter Demille,  she doesn't buy it for one moment.  In fact, Stacey believes that her  husband was murdered to cover up something at Fort Detrick, and that  Admiral James Zoll(the man in charge of the military facility) and Dr.  Demille were behind it.  She's determined to get to the bottom of her  huband's death and punish the people responsible for it.  This leads her to  Vanishing Lake, Texas, where Zoll and Demille are conducting experiments on  prisoners.  An error on Demille's part leads to the accidental release of  the deadly bio-agent into the air around the nearby town, thereby  infecting, not only Zoll's men, but the town's people as well.  Zoll  quickly decides to destroy to town in a futile effort to downsize the  mistake.  Stacey and two hobos manage to escape before the soldiers  surround the town.  One of the hobos is Chris &quot;Lucky&quot; Cunningham,  a former Recon Marine who experienced tragedy several years before when he  returned from the Gulf War with a deadly bug in his system that had been  created year's earlier by Dr. Demille..a bug that would eventually be  passed on to his baby daughter and kill her.  Chris and Stacey decide to  join forces in an attempt to stop Zoll and Demille from killing anymore  people, but the challenge they face intensifies when they realize that the  fanatic hobo priest, the Reverend Fannon Kincaid, and his small army of  zealous followers were also at Vanishing Lake, and now they want the  bio-agent for themselves so that they can do a little ethnic cleansing  around the country.  All that I've described so far is just the tip of the  iceberg and doesn't even begin to cover the complexity of the plot and the  large number of characters moving in and out of the story.  Mr. Cannell  does offer the reader a good bit of information regarding the subjects of  mircobiology and the art of being a hobo, as well as how to ride the train  rails.  Though THE DEVIL's WORKSHOP is a &quot;fun&quot; book to read, at  no point did I ever buy the premise of the story.  This, however, isn't  necessarily bad.  I would call this type of novel a  &quot;Saturday-morning&quot; read.  It's fast and entertaining, but it does  require a large suspension of belief.  Think of a made-for-television  movie, or a two-part mini-series and you get the idea of what I'm talking  about. Still, I've enjoyed other of Mr. Cannell's books and have just  recently purchased KING CON in paperback.  If you know what to expect, I  don't feel you'll be disappointed with this book.  Simply take the novel  for what it is and have some fun.so at Vanishing Lake, and now they want the  bio-agent for themselves so that they can do a little ethnic cleansing  around the country.  All that I've described so far is just the tip of the  iceberg and doesn't even begin to cover the complexity of the plot and the  large number of characters moving in and out of the story.  Mr. Cannell  does offer the reader a good bit of information regarding the subjects of  mircobiology and the art of being a hobo, as well as how to ride the train  rails.  Though THE DEVIL's WORKSHOP is a &quot;fun&quot; book to read, at  no point did I ever buy the premise of the story.  This, however, isn't  necessarily bad.  I would call this type of novel a  &quot;Saturday-morning&quot; read.  It's fast and entertaining, but it does  require a large suspension of belief.  Think of a made-for-television  movie, or a two-part mini-series and you get the idea of what I'm talking  about. Still, I've enjoyed other of Mr. Cannell's books and have just  recently purchased KING CON in paperback.  If you know what to expect, I  don't feel you'll be disappointed with this book.  Simply take the novel  for what it is and have some fun.	2000-08-06
US	49187160	RXBK6TC2F0OU0	0688172962	614305867	Out of My Mind: The Discovery of Saunders-Vixen	Books	4	34	37	N	N	AIRPLANES, PARALLEL UNIVERSES, BUT NO LESLIE!	I'm a year behind all of the controversy about Richard Bach's OUT OF MY MIND.  If I had read the reviews before getting the book, I probably wouldn't have purchased it.  I'm glad, however, that I did.  I can  certainly understand why so many people were upset about Bach's new novel.  Well, it actually isn't a novel.  It's more like a twenty-five page short  story, expanded to look longer than it really is.  Also, the story is  open-ended.  There is no actual ending to it, but rather what appears to be  the preparation of future things to come.  Last, there is no Leslie Parrish  in this book.  Not even a mention of her.  I wasn't aware that Richard and  Leslie had divorced until I read the previous reviews.  Like most fans of  Richard Bach, I,too, was surprised by this and began to wonder if it is  possible for anyone to have a happy, successful, long-term marriage.  I  mean, if soul mates can't do it, what chance does the rest of us have?  Anyway, as to the story itself, I can see where a lot of people would find  nothing useful in it.  Mr. Bach has talked about &quot;parallel  universes&quot; in some of his other books on a much more interesting  level.  There wasn't really anything new here that would capture the  imagination of most readers...that is, unless the reader had also had  similar experiences.  For the last several years, I have visited a college  town in my dream state that has beautiful oak trees lining both sides of  the street, as well as a multitude of wonderful bookstores.  I meet people  on the street that I seem to know, and shop in the bookstores, finding new  novels by some of my favorite authors.  I as walk through the town, I feel  like I'm finally home. The only catch here is that I have never been to  this town in my awakened state, nor do I actually know any of the people I  meet in the dream.  Even worse, my favorite authors in the dream state  don't exist outside of that realm.  I have no idea where this town has come  from, or why I dream about it so often ( probably around two dozen times so  far).  No one has been able to give me a satisfying answer to this  question.  I know that I experience an extreme sense of peace while  visiting this place in my sleep, and that it carries over into my awakened  state for at least half of the following day.  OUT OF MY MIND has given me  some food for thought about this unusual experience.  I know that some of  the leading scientists of the past century have expressed the possibility  of parallel universes existing.  Whether the scientists (Albert Einstein,  Stephen Hawkings, &amp; Kip Thorne) are  correct is a question that may be  answered in the  future.  Whether we can access a parallel universe, if one  does exist, is another question in itself.  And finally, what is real and  what is simply one's imagination?  I don't know the answer to that.  What I  do know is that I immensely enjoyed Bach's book for this particular story  line. It touched something deep inside of me, and now I'm more determined  than ever before to find out something about this reoccuring dream of mine.  I don't know if Mr. Bach wrote OUT OF MY MIND for the money, or if he  really had something important that he wanted to say. I would like to think  the positive, and I would like to read more books concerning his visits to  the Saunders-Vixen airplane facility.  If one looks at the universe through  the eyes of a child, anything is possible...maybe even the visiting of a  parallel universe while one is sleeping.  One last note, Mr. Bach has since  closed down his web site.  I wonder if it was because of too many angry  E-mails about OUT OF MY MIND?dream about it so often ( probably around two dozen times so  far).  No one has been able to give me a satisfying answer to this  question.  I know that I experience an extreme sense of peace while  visiting this place in my sleep, and that it carries over into my awakened  state for at least half of the following day.  OUT OF MY MIND has given me  some food for thought about this unusual experience.  I know that some of  the leading scientists of the past century have expressed the possibility  of parallel universes existing.  Whether the scientists (Albert Einstein,  Stephen Hawkings, &amp; Kip Thorne) are  correct is a question that may be  answered in the  future.  Whether we can access a parallel universe, if one  does exist, is another question in itself.  And finally, what is real and  what is simply one's imagination?  I don't know the answer to that.  What I  do know is that I immensely enjoyed Bach's book for this particular story  line. It touched something deep inside of me, and now I'm more determined  than ever before to find out something about this reoccuring dream of mine.   I don't know if Mr. Bach wrote OUT OF MY MIND for the money, or if he  really had something important that he wanted to say. I would like to think  the positive, and I would like to read more books concerning his visits to  the Saunders-Vixen airplane facility.  If one looks at the universe through  the eyes of a child, anything is possible...maybe even the visiting of a  parallel universe while one is sleeping.  One last note, Mr. Bach has since  closed down his web site.  I wonder if it was because of too many angry  E-mails about OUT OF MY MIND?	2000-07-21
US	49187160	RNVT88ANKT0KU	0786889446	335827639	Where Serpents Lie	Books	5	8	11	N	N	SNAKES AND HUMAN PREDATORS	It's been well over ten years since I read T. Jefferson Parker's LAGUNA HEAT. I remember that it was a good book. For whatever reason, I didn't follow up on Mr. Parker's other works as he continued to write. That was my mistake! Thankfully, I've rediscovered him. I just finished WHERE SERPENTS LIE and though the novel was written over two years ago, I have to place it on my list of best books that I've read so far in the new millennium. The story deals with Sergeant Terry Naughton, head of the Crimes Against Youth Division of the Orange County Sheriff Department in Southern California, and his hunt for the Horridus, a man who preys on young children. Two years before, Terry suffered the lost of his five-year-old son, Matt, in a swimming accident. He still feels the immense pain of the tragedy, not to mention the sense of failure and regret he experienced when he and his wife could no longer live together after what happened. Terry now pours all of his energy into trying to save as many children as possible from the human monsters out there, who secretly hunt, sexually abuse, and kill these innocents as a means to fulfilling their sick desires. There is one man who calls himself the Horridus, and he's the worst of the monsters. His pleasure comes in the form of kidnapping the children right out of their homes, then using them to complete his dark fantasies before feeding them to his thirty-foot long python. Now, in my opinion, this is definitely a guy you want to do a &quot;Dirty Harry&quot; on. Terry feels the same way. His one goal is to put this predator down the hard way, hopefully before he kills again. As Terry gets deeper into the hunt, he's suddenly sidetracked when mysterious pictures of him having sex with a minor are discovered by members of his department while checking out a crime scene. Terry knows that he is innocent, but few others seem to believe him. The question is who's setting him up for the big fall? Who has the most to gain? Is it the Horridus, or is it possibly one of the members of his department? Terry quickly finds himself on suspension while an investigation is started into the incriminating pictures. He refuses, however, to just sit back and wait, especially while the Horridus is still kidnapping children. With or without the help of his department, he's determined to nail this guy. He simply has to do it before he finds himself in jail on false charges. WHERE SERPENTS LIE will surprise you again and again. Just when you think you know where it's going, there will be a twist that takes you in a completely different direction. You may at times feel sick as Mr. Parker delves into the hideous side of human nature, but at no point will you stop rooting for our hero to put down this evil specimen of humanity. The writing is taunt and the suspense is relentless. Mr. Parker has created a hero with a tormented soul in the character of Terry Naughton, and your heart will go out to him at the ending when he's forced to look at himself and the people around him, realizing that monsters can come in many different disguises. This is certainly the kind of book you will try to read in one day. Don't rush it. Savor the anticipation and excitement of each page, and take your time. Allow yourself at least two days of delightful enjoyment. I'm now getting ready to start Mr. Parker's next novel, THE BLUE HOUR. From the blurb on the back cover, it appears to be every bit as good as this one was.or is it possibly one of the members of his department? Terry quickly finds himself on suspension while an investigation is started into the incriminating pictures. He refuses, however, to just sit back and wait, especially while the Horridus is still kidnapping children. With or without the help of his department, he's determined to nail this guy. He simply has to do it before he finds himself in jail on false charges. WHERE SERPENTS LIE will surprise you again and again. Just when you think you know where it's going, there will be a twist that takes you in a completely different direction. You may at times feel sick as Mr. Parker delves into the hideous side of human nature, but at no point will you stop rooting for our hero to put down this evil specimen of humanity. The writing is taunt and the suspense is relentless. Mr. Parker has created a hero with a tormented soul in the character of Terry Naughton, and your heart will go out to him at the ending when he's forced to look at himself and the people around him, realizing that monsters can come in many different disguises. This is certainly the kind of book you will try to read in one day. Don't rush it. Savor the anticipation and excitement of each page, and take your time. Allow yourself at least two days of delightful enjoyment. I'm now getting ready to start Mr. Parker's next novel, THE BLUE HOUR. From the blurb on the back cover, it appears to be every bit as good as this one was.	2000-07-11
US	49187160	R2HGBTJ4ZQM2UL	0553576445	938782521	Big Red Tequila	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A COLD CORONA, SOME TACO BELL &amp; TRES NAVARRE	One of the really great things about the &quot;private eye&quot; genre is that each author picks a particular locale for their main character to live and work in, and the reader, in a sense, gets to visit these areas and see  them through the eyes of the author.  There's Boston for Spenser, Los  Angeles for Elvis Cole, and New York City for Matthew Scudder.  Now, in the  BIG RED TEQUILA, the first of three novels by Rick Riordan, we have San  Antonio for Tres Navarre.  In this story, Jackson &quot;Tres&quot; Navarre  returns to his home of San Antonio after a long absence.  Ten years before,  his father, Bexar County Sheriff Jackson Navarre, was murdered outside of  their home before his very eyes, gunned down by a shooter in a passing car.  Everybody knew that it was a &quot;hit&quot;.  The question was why?  Tres  left Texas and his fiancee, Lillian Cambridge, and moved to Berkely, where  he got a Ph.D. in English literature, studied Tai Chi Chuan, and learned  the fine art of detecting from his new girlfriend, Maia Lee.  Years passed,  then a sudden phone call from Lillian brings Tres rushing back, hoping to  reunite with the person who was once the love of his live, and maybe to  solve the murder of his father.  It doesn't take Tres long to figure out  that hardly anyone is glad to have him back.  Lillian's ex-boyfriend, Dan  Sheff, sure isn't.  Neither are Lillian's parents, nor her business  partner, Beau Karnau.  Even worst, there's Detective Jay Rivas of the SAPD  (a man who hated Sheriff Navarre), coming down hard on Tres from day one,  looking for any reason to arrest him and to throw away the key.  Then,  there's Guy White, a debonair mobster who likes to work in his garden and  who is supposedly the man behind the murder.  His advice to Tres is simply  to return to California before something bad happens to him.  Tres,  however, is not the type of man to back off.  He begins to dig deeper into  the death of his father, ignoring the warnings, and soon people are sending  thugs to beat him up...to run over him...to shoot him...and to kidnap  Lillian in a vain effort to make him stop.  That just makes Tres more  persistent.  One thing leads to another, and he soon discovers a connection  between his father and the Sheff Construction Company and payoffs to  government officicals.  That's when the real questions start coming,  because everything is not as it seems.  The BIG RED TEQUILA has the usual  twist and turns of a well-written novel, and it certainly keeps the reader  moving forward in his or her quest to find out who it was that had the good  sheriff murdered.  Mr. Riordan's style of writing is smooth and refreshing,  making it a pure pleasure to read.  He offers us a look at the dark side of  city life in San Antonio and the nature of big city politics.  Tres  Navarre, while not as tough as Spenser or as cynical as Matthew Scudder, is  still a great character to hang out with for a day of fun and relaxation.  I look forward to reading the next two novels in the series.ople are sending  thugs to beat him up...to run over him...to shoot him...and to kidnap  Lillian in a vain effort to make him stop.  That just makes Tres more  persistent.  One thing leads to another, and he soon discovers a connection  between his father and the Sheff Construction Company and payoffs to  government officicals.  That's when the real questions start coming,  because everything is not as it seems.  The BIG RED TEQUILA has the usual  twist and turns of a well-written novel, and it certainly keeps the reader  moving forward in his or her quest to find out who it was that had the good  sheriff murdered.  Mr. Riordan's style of writing is smooth and refreshing,  making it a pure pleasure to read.  He offers us a look at the dark side of  city life in San Antonio and the nature of big city politics.  Tres  Navarre, while not as tough as Spenser or as cynical as Matthew Scudder, is  still a great character to hang out with for a day of fun and relaxation.   I look forward to reading the next two novels in the series.	2000-07-10
