US	49183765	R2N4UZSIA47H2P	B0007DRFQC	718442933	Peter Norbeck: prairie statesman (The University of Missouri studies)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A different sort of prairie Republican	The good news is that this 1948 book has just been republished by the South Dakota State Historical Press and my signed copy, that arrived today, from author Gilbert Fite now accompanies the 1948 original that this fine historian also sent me two years ago.    This publication on Senator Norbeck has been virtually unobtainable which is why I tracked the author down after reading his excellent 1952 book 'Mount Rushmore' - still the best on the politics and history of the great memorial and fortunately  still available via Amazon's used book service.    Norbeck was a most unusual Republican, supporting state enterprises, but one who suited the times and Fite shows how he successfully prevented the Nonpartisan League enjoying the same success in South Dakota that they had enjoyed in North Dakota by capturing their political ground.    While attacking them as radical socialists and disloyal to the Great War effort, the then state governor denied he was a socialist and that entrance by the state into certain lines of business was not socialism, particularly when it prevented exorbitant profits being made by monopolists. Shades of Teddy Roosevelt.    Whether it was progressivism or socialism Norbeck certainly promoted things like rural credit programs, a state coal mine and cement plant (the latter lasting for three-quarters of a century) while his sponsorship of good roads, railways free text book schemes, assistance to war veterans, grain-marketing acts are all detailed.    Given all this it is perhaps not surprising that Norbeck was one of the few GOP survivors in the era of FDR and the New Deal. Fite describes vividly the tensions in Republican ranks in SD between the prairie populist and conservatives in the leadup to the 1932 watershed election that obviously pointed to the end of Republican rule, under the impact of the Great Depression.    After an easy primary win Norbeck was returned for a third term when he beat his Democratic rival by 26,000 votes, despite thefact that in the presidential contest FDR carried the state by 84,000 votes. By the 1936 election the ailing SD Republican senator was positively endorsing FDR against GOP challenger Alf Landon!    Like the earlier Roosevelt (TR), Norbeck was also a great conservationist and as Fite points out Mt Rusmore, Custer State Park, the Badlands National Park, the Migratory Bird Act are all testimonials to his efforts as both a state and federal legislator. Norbeck's wish, \\"I would rather be remembered as an artist than as US senator,\\" would certainly earn favour with all those, (including this Australian reviewer), who have travelled along the aesthetically pleasing Needles Highway in the Black Hills,as part of the Peter Norbeck Scenic Byway,  artistic proof of his insistence for the road to blend in with the environment rather than disturb the beauty of this wonderful area.    Norbeck's capacity to understand the importance of harmonising  roads and tourism with the environment has helped make the Mount Rushmore and Black Hills area such an enduring attraction.    As an agricultural historian and a native of South Dakota, Professor Fite, is clearly at home with his subject and his works have continually survived the test of time. The re-publication of this fine biography is long overdue and hopefully it will be well received by American readers and, like his 'Mount Rushmore,' is well worth reading by anyone with a passion for western or Great Plains history.    On a personal note I wish the author, now in Florida, a long and healthy retirement and thank him for his contribution to making South Dakotan and American history such a pleasurable experience to the reader.    FOOTNOTE: Professor Fite passed away on 13 July 2010. He was 92. I regret not having the chance to meet him face-to-face, something he invited me to do if I made it back to the USA.	2005-09-27
US	49183765	RGQW99F1QBUCP	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Christmas Messages	The book and the new 2004 movie 'Christmas with the Kranks', a faithful portrayal of John Grisham's novel, are both recommended for all ages.<br /><br />Luther and Nora Krank's decision to skip Chritmas for one year, much to the chagrin of their local festive-spirited community and friends sets the scene for this light hearted short story where not all the cranks are called Krank.<br /><br />Is Luther the new Scrooge of Christmas or does that title belong to those who pressure him to spend on Christmas rather than take a Carribean cruise instead? Is there too much commercialism of Christmas? Can children expect too much of their parents? Is catering for a grown-up daughter's whim reason enough to change holiday plans or does that indicate what a family is all about? Are demanding neighbours wanting a community spirit beyond the pale or integral to what a community is all about?<br /><br />There are a number of questions to the subtle sub-plots of this novel and certainly the true spirit of Christmas -giving- is ultimately revealed by Luther's generous actions and his acceptance of family bonds.<br /><br />The movie of the book has some gorgeous snow scenes and shots of attractive suburban homes festooned with Christmas lights as well as some some humorous moments. Tim Allen (Luther) clearly enjoys making Christmas movies and is well supported by Jamie Lee Curtis(Nora).	2004-12-25
US	49183765	R3CI0MA0XIO8ZR	B0000W70C4	63693352	Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A  &quot; misunderstimated&quot; account of election 2000	On the 3 July 2004 Fox News Watch member Neal Gabler implied that Frank Bruni was something of a cheer leader for George W Bush in the 2000 election.<br />That is not something a dispassionate reader would claim after reading Bruni's account in this book, essentially a campaign journal of Bruni's travels on the 'Zoo plane,'and elsewhere during that frantic presidential election.<br />Overall Bruni is mildly critical of his subject, but often in a funny way, particularly with the then Republican candidate's mangling of the English language -something that Bush is able to laugh at himself over (a good trait).<br />The book is not a must-read, and is now dated being published in early 2002, but it does give some idea of how manic and maniac campaign life is for both journalists and candidates.<br />Bush is revealed as a man with an impish sense of humour but also one that developed newfound gravity  after the horrific attacks on his country, in September 2001, and a leader who takes the trappings of the presidency seriously. On one occasion he forgot to salute a marine as he boarded his helicopter, Marine One, to go to Camp David but once inside he remembered his failure and so returned to salute the startled guard!<br />If you like a gossipy style account of elections then this book is an enjoyable enough light read	2004-07-06
US	49183765	R1KMXVL8ZRRY0M	0870180533	358284131	History of the Dakota or Sioux Indians	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	a pioneering and visionary historian	Doane Robinson's century old classic was typically a trail blazing epic from a man who was often the originator of great ideas.<br /><br />Robinson was the person who first conceived the idea of carvings on Mt Rushmore and this history of the Sioux was half a century in front of the second historical work written about an Indian federation.<br /><br />Robinson's long life (1856-1946) coincided with some epic events in the South Dakota region, and neighbouring states, and as SD state historian he had the advantage of actually being able to talk to some of the participants in the great struggles on the northern plains (in the 30 years before 1890) while producing this fine 1904 publication of over 500 pages.<br /><br />It is not necessary to agree with all of Robinson's conclusions to appreciate the sweep of his work on the Sioux, from earliest times through to Wounded Knee. As he wrote in a period before political correctness became fashionable he does use descriptive words such as 'savages' to describe marauding Indians or make reference to the 'insufferable insolence' of certain warriors.<br /><br />However, he is also critical of white soldiers and settlers (eg the Wounded Knee massacre of Indians in 1890) and overall he gets the balance about right.<br /><br />Indeed, it is precisely because Doane Robinson was a product of his time (like we are of our era) that he reflects  the language and some of the opinions of that time - which makes this work so interesting.<br /><br />Only the hyper-critical will fail to enjoy this history from a great South Dakotan who was first to chronicle the journey of a great Indian people.	2003-11-13
US	49183765	R3OKTQDDXAIK2E	0806109599	856125056	Mount Rushmore	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	saving the best for last	Gilbert Fite's \\"Mt Rushmore,\\" (1952), like the great monument, is a superb piece of work and lives up to Professor Herbert T. Hoover's description of it, (to me), as the best on the subject.<br /><br />I have read two new excellent books this year on the monument ('Mt Rushmore:An Icon Reconsidered' By Jesse Larner, and 'Great White Fathers' by John Taliaferro) but I agree with Hoover that Fite's work, now over half a century old, is still the best, in regard to the politics and construction of the 'Shrine of Democracy.'<br /><br />Professor Fite, a South Dakotan historian now retired in Arkansas,has an easy and engaging style of writing that appeals to the general reader, as well as obvious research abilities that make him repected by his peers.<br /><br />He brings to life the major players behind the creation of Rushmore monument: Doane Robinson, the lawyer turned- visionary historian who dared to dream of a great monument; Gutzon Borglum the brilliant but irascible sculptor who created something unique for the national memory; the able administrator John Boland whose financial skills were essential for success as was his humility and ability to withstand the bile and denigration of Borglum; and the political skills of Congressmen William Williamson, Francis Case and, in particular, Senator Peter Norbeck, arguably South Dakota's greatest senator and governor whose name is forever connected with the best in conservation principles.<br /><br />Fite's description of Norbeck's Iron Mountain Road as ensuring the most spectacular framing, or telescoping, of Mt Rushmore by the use of three different tunnels is spot on and brought back warm personal memories of my visit in October 2001. This road plus the earlier Needles highway,together with Custer State Park and game sanctuary remain Norbeck's monument.<br /><br />There are some great photos of the the early work at Rushmore and of most of the men mentioned above, including my favourite of Doane Robinson, taken in his later years. It seems to epitomise the author's description of him as \\"mild and even tempered\\" and reflects why \\"through the years South Dakotans had come to love and respect Doane Robinson.\\"<br /><br />Fite is understandably tough on Borglum, who could be very unfair to people who disagreed with his views, while recognising his genius,(although Taliaferro's book goes into greater biographical detail of the sculptor, his family and Ku Klux Klan background), and chronicles the financial and political struggles of the project as well as the dissenting voices to the monument.<br /><br />Mt Rushmore is indeed a place to reflect, in a dramatic setting-a monument for the ages, representing the greatness and best traditions of America. However, it should also be mentioned it has been created on stolen land and the two newer books mentioned, as you would expect 50 years on, do detail Indian perspectives and grievances, and the other notable events in the history of Rushmore, since Fite's work was produced.<br /><br />However, as I write this review on the second anniversary of an evil and barbarous terrorist act, it is worth reflecting on that the men of Rushmore were essentially builders-unlike the wreckers and destroyers of the Taliban whose contribution to history was to smash the great Budhist statues of antiquity because they were not monuments of their faith.<br /><br />Like Mt Rushmore, Professor Fite's book is well constructed and makes us think of peoples and values of worth. Highly recommended.<br /><br />FOOTNOTE: This great American historian passed away on 13 July 2010. He was 92. I regret our occasional e-mails and phone conversations are finished and that I did not have the opportunity to meet with him, as invited.ater years. It seems to epitomise the author's description of him as \\"mild and even tempered\\" and reflects why \\"through the years South Dakotans had come to love and respect Doane Robinson.\\"<br /><br />Fite is understandably tough on Borglum, who could be very unfair to people who disagreed with his views, while recognising his genius,(although Taliaferro's book goes into greater biographical detail of the sculptor, his family and Ku Klux Klan background), and chronicles the financial and political struggles of the project as well as the dissenting voices to the monument.<br /><br />Mt Rushmore is indeed a place to reflect, in a dramatic setting-a monument for the ages, representing the greatness and best traditions of America. However, it should also be mentioned it has been created on stolen land and the two newer books mentioned, as you would expect 50 years on, do detail Indian perspectives and grievances, and the other notable events in the history of Rushmore, since Fite's work was produced.<br /><br />However, as I write this review on the second anniversary of an evil and barbarous terrorist act, it is worth reflecting on that the men of Rushmore were essentially builders-unlike the wreckers and destroyers of the Taliban whose contribution to history was to smash the great Budhist statues of antiquity because they were not monuments of their faith.<br /><br />Like Mt Rushmore, Professor Fite's book is well constructed and makes us think of peoples and values of worth. Highly recommended.<br /><br />FOOTNOTE: This great American historian passed away on 13 July 2010. He was 92. I regret our occasional e-mails and phone conversations are finished and that I did not have the opportunity to meet with him, as invited.	2003-09-11
US	49183765	R377LMBL0BIJFL	1891620983	81792354	Great White Fathers: The Story of the Obsessive Quest to Create Mount Rushmore	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A monumental work	This book is a biography of a man and place.    The man is the sculptor Gutzon Borglum, the place Mt Rushmore,arguably America's greatest monument and certainly the country's most unique one.    John Taliaferro does a great job in researching the colourful history of Borglum, born to the second wife of a Mormon polygamist, later a supporter of the Ku Klux Klan,and a man with access to every president from TR to FDR.    Brilliant but irascible, Borglum typified the artistic temperament and Taliaferro concentrates on him to a greater extent than another excellent 2002 book on the same subject by Jesse Larner (Mt Rushmore: An Icon Reconsidered).    The irony that this great \\"Shrine of Democracy\\" has been built on stolen lands does not escape the author's attention and he  details the Indian view. Contrary to some reviewers I do not think this is overdone. History is about conflict and competing opinions and no country, regardless of how great, enjoys a spotless past. As a conservative I consider the Indian criticism has validity.    Taliaferro captures the excitement and passions involved in the creation of this great monument and the history of the Black Hills generally, something that continues to fascinate this reviewer who lives as far away from South Dakota as is possible while still remaining on the same planet.    Having just finished a third book on the monument - by historian Gilbert Fite (whose 1952 book is the best in detailing the politics and construction difficulties of Rushmore) - gives added appreciation to this part of American history.    Reading Taliaferro's book, or the other two mentioned, is a rewarding experience and will enhance any planned visit to Mt Rushmore - something this reviewer did in October 2001 and hopefully will do again.	2003-09-03
US	49183765	R3QE6ROKH9GXFK	1566913187	638999274	DEL-Gene Kilgore's Ranch Vacations: The Leading Guide to Guest and Resort, Fly-Fishing, and Cross-Country Skiing Ranches in the United States and Canada	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	America the beautiful	Gene Kilgore's 'Ranch Vacations' should also be called America the beautiful because his various editions create a veritable smorgasbord of panoramic delights.<br />This is the quintessential America-the great ranches of the Great Plains states - and a whole lot more, including Canada and even the eastern regions of USA.<br />The vastness, colour, scenery, atmosphere all leap out of the pages of these books-enough to make this Aussie want to pack his bags and go a ranchin' tomorrow.<br />The only problem is determining location -there are just so many choices available in so many states.<br />While more information can be found on the web Kilgore's book has the advantage of easy cross reference and is transportable.<br />In this age of terrorism the beauty, tranquility and grandeur of America stands in ample contrast to those who wish to destroy the Great Republic.<br />Unlike those who seek to wreck and destroy, the people in this book, including the author, seek to build by offering the best hospitality and advice possible-and in doing so reveal an authentic part of America to both the reader at home and abroad.	2003-06-24
US	49183765	R1KCFM90NE7M1J	0071415165	796032285	The Rumsfeld Way : Leadership Wisdom of a Battle-Hardened Maverick	Books	3	14	22	N	N	Running towards the smoke	This book is neither biography nor a historical work but rather an analysis of Donald Rumsfeld's leadership and management style in government and business.<br />It is an easy read with only 213 pages of text (or 244 pages with notes and index added) and has a useful and brief summary of the 'Rumsfeld Way' at the end of each chapter, ideal for a   trainer conducting an in-house management training session.<br />Personally I have enormous respect for DR, although I imagine he wouldn't be an easy man to work for and it would possibly be easy to fall foul of him.<br />Yet there is no doubt he has always been the man 'running towards the smoke,' and not just on that fateful September 11 day when his Pentagon was in flames around him.<br />It was DR who came back to run the Ford Whitehouse after the trauma of Watergate and the destruction of the Nixon presidency; and it was the same man who accepted the challenge of a battling pharmaceutical company, GD Searle,that had racked up eight losing quarters before being turned around by the new CEO.<br />As the 13th and 21st US Defense Secretary, Rummy has the distinction of being both the youngest and oldest person to hold that great office.<br />It is doubtful if the US has ever had a better 'minister of war'-as borne testimony to by the highly successful American-led blitzkieg in the recent Iraqi war.<br />DR has become something of a cult figure with his straight talking, no-nonsense style. He is a man that relishes his job and is not interested in courting popularity, although at this late stage of his life he has attracted it, through sheer performance and his sense of humour.<br />At a press conference at the end of the recent war, an Afro-American major, asked him a question relating to early retirement benefits for Army personnel. Rummy had a field day answering that: &quot;You are asking a 70 year old about early retirement?,&quot; the Defense Secretary said with mock horror and a wicked grin that reminded me of the cartoon character 'Whalesteeth' (in Chick Young's &quot;Dagwood and Blondie&quot; series), although his critics would probably refer to him as 'sharksteeth'.<br />That quip was vintage Rumsfeld and will obviously make the pages of later, and more complete, works on him ( Krames book was published early in 2002).<br />Indeed, books on Rummy will no doubt doubt be a growth industry by the time he steps down. How long that will be is anyone's guess, but current indications would indicate he may well go the full distance of a Bush presidency which would make him 76 at the close of two terms.<br />America and the world have been well served by this feisty warrior - and the subject, like the book, is certainly  appreciated by this Australian.	2003-05-26
US	49183765	RVNM3IVLUK8OK	0140246649	253080489	Righteous Gentile: The Story of Raoul Wallenberg, Missing Hero of the Holocaust	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Sweden's greatest samaritan	A five star book about a five star hero.<br /><br />The second world war threw-up some gigantic figures but ironically Raoul Wallenberg from neutral Sweden towers over all the rest.<br /><br />Like the Good Samaritan he didn't pass on by but instead left his safe homeland to assist others by putting himself in danger day after day in the inferno that was Hungary during the dreadful days of 1944-45.<br /><br />The man who saved a 100,000 jews from the clutches of Adolf Eichmann, the SS, and the Hungarian facists, the Arrow Cross ultimately fell foul of the Russian 'liberators.' He was never seen again as a free man after being taken into 'protective custody' by the Reds on 17 January 1945.<br /><br />I read John Bierman's excellent book some 20 years ago and he charts the extraordinary crusade of his subject with a deft touch.<br /><br />This is a book that will both inspire you, with Wallenberg's humanity and courage, and anger you that such a man could lose his liberty after fighting so hard for the freedom and safety of others.<br /><br />In the pantheon of heroes Raoul Wallenberg-the righteous gentile-would have to be at the very top.<br /><br />Footnote: It has just been announced in Canberra that tomorrow, (6 May 2013), this great Swede will become Australia's first honorary citizen in a ceremony conducted by the Governor General. PM Julia Gillard, and her cabinet, deserve commendation for emulating Ronald Reagan. The Gipper made Wallenerg an honorary US citizen in 1981.<br />I constantly used to remind my Yr 11 students, of Nazi Germany, about the greatness of this Swedish colossus.	2003-05-22
US	49183765	RS1OG76KMN9LX	1560253460	190306265	Mount Rushmore: An Icon Reconsidered (Nation Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Making a difference	This book is simply a gem about one of the great icons of America-Mt Rushmore.<br />Part history,part travel, part personal, the author Jesse Larner writes on a monument that typifies the American spirit and history-bold,different,expansionary,courageous, tragic, controversial.<br />The creator of Mt Rushmore, Gutzon Borglum, believed in the Great Man principle of history, hence the monument to four presidents who all believed in manifest destiny and the greatness of America.<br />The tragedy of the Sioux, however, is not neglected and Larner details their loss of the Black Hills, broken treaties etc. Undertandably, America's shrine to democracy invokes some less than patriotic responses from Native Americans.<br />However, although Larner is not afraid to challenge the legend and myths of American history he is no historical vandal either. The facts and complexities between Red and White are fascinating enough without some dogmatist attempting to channel the readers views.<br />As an overseas visitor to this great monument on my second full day in America (8 October 2001)- I thought Mt Rushmore symbolised the granite strength of a super power -as indeed the patriotic signs and flags in the homes and businesses of Rapid City,(that I had witnessed the day before), had forcefully impressed on me that this was a nation proud of its heritage and well able to meet future challenges,including threats from terrorists.<br />For those who like a challenging read Larner's \\"Mount Rushmore\\" will, like a visit to the great monument, be a rewarding experience.	2003-03-07
US	49183765	R16Z2OI5YHVT32	0393305716	722902299	South Dakota: A History (States and the Nation Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	South Dakota- a first look at America	My first impressions of America were in Rapid City, South Dakota (7-10 October 2001) and the patriotism and hospitality of Dakotans set the pattern for an enjoyable three week tour (that included NM, NYC and DC).<br />John Milton's concise 200 page history of the Coyote State filled in some gaps for me and simply whetted the appetite for a return visit.<br />Particularly interesting was the East-West divide caused by the Missouri river and how, traditionally, the political clout in the State has been in the hands of the easterners.<br />The conflicts between Red and White, that still persist, started with the gold rush, an event that sparked the major migration of white settlers into the territory. <br />Colourful characters like Wild Bill Hickok, Calamity Jane, Hugh Glass, Red Cloud, George Custer and others give the flavour of pioneer times and the imagery of the past was enhanced by me being able to see some of the historic places in the Black Hills as well as some of the big sky country of the prairie-both of which the author conveys well in his text.<br />The rural nature of much of South Dakota, with wide open spaces reminds me of my own environment (in the Wheatbelt of Western Australia) and the history of gold rushes,early inter ethnic clashes, achievement of statehood (SD was a year ahead of Western Australia), friendly people and rural conservatism is something that I can clearly recognise and which Milton explains.<br />If you want a good concise backgrounder to SD (with a useful section on further reading) then Milton's book is a good starting point.<br />As for South Dakotans in general I admire their patriotism (after Sep.11) with flags and signs everywhere- and in particular I thank Pastor Jim Patrick, and members of his United Methodist Church, who took time to make sure this traveller from a distant land not only enjoyed reading about the history of the State but also saw  South Dakotans of the present for what they are-a gracious, generous and decent people.	2002-03-04
US	49183765	R3D6MW4PB09WVV	0671846507	438670209	Chronicle of the Indian Wars: From Colonial Times to Wounded Knee	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Broad brush on Red-White warfare	Alan Axelrod has used a broad brush approach to chronicle the Red-White conflicts of North America from earliest times through to 1890.<br />The album-style book, with boxed articles to complement the main story, gives the reader a good overview of the conflicts and personalities and this, plus a good chronology and bibliography, points the reader to a more detailed reading of specific eras. Because of Axelrod's book, together with a recent visit to South Dakota and New Mexico, my interest to read more on Native American history has been stimulated, particularly the warfare on the Plains, from the 1860s to 1890, during the period of the great Lakota chief Red Cloud, (plus Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull).<br />The colonial period, for which I have had an abiding passion is also well covered including King Philip's War (1675-6), a war that pro-rata of population was the most savage fought on American soil; plus the revolutionary struggles of the great Loyalist Indian, Joseph Brant.<br />I thought I had detected a minor error when the author had a sub-heading claiming King William's War (1689-97) started in 1688, which was a bit difficult as the Orangeman did not take the crown off James II until the end of that year and the war really commenced the following year. However, the author qualifies it in the text to say the early skirmishing was known as the Abnaki War with intensification taking place in North America after the European conflict commenced in 1689.<br />Also a book of 280 pages covering such a vast period can, by definition, only give an overview of the period.<br />Nevertheless Axelrod has produced an entertaining chronicle of  periods of intensely interesting, if often forgotten, aspects of American history.	2001-12-24
US	49183765	R1ZXXN84DS9L2B	0965029832	472347937	Trailing Louis L'Amour in New Mexico	Books	4	7	8	N	N	On the trail of enchantment	Louis L'Amour has a vast multitude of readers around the world-but only one like Bert Murphy.<br />What the New Mexican author has done in this book, and the companion title ( Trailing Louis L'Amour from California to Alaska), is to help put into historical and geographical perspective the L'Amour novels.<br />Thus, this first book, that looks at the 7 novels set in New Mexico reveals that Murphy, has not only read the novels, but has poured over them- exploring and contextualising them for others. If you want to be part of Killoe's Cattle Trail, Conagher's Stage Line, Flint's Malpais, Shalako's War Path, Daybreakers Trek, Radigans Sierra Trails, or participate in a Showdown at Yellow Butte then Murphy is the best side-kick you will find and the above chapters in his book detail the well known LL stories. <br />If you plan to read, or have read any of the LL novels set in NM, and you like having additional information on the time and area, then this book is a must. Good maps  also assist the reader to chart the area involved in the particular stories and plenty of large black and white photos give a 'feel' for the terrain. There are times when I feel that the book could have been tightened by a some better sub-editing (eg on p101, within the space of some 13 lines, we are told, twice, that Chato, an Apache war chief, lived from 1854-1934). However this book is a 'ramble' and such finer points do not lessen the interest of what Murphy has to tell us about his home state.<br />There is a lot of a L'Amour character about Bert Murphy-he has lived and worked around many states of his homeland, seen active service in two major conflicts, and climbed through the ranks finishing as a Major-General and Asst. Adjutant General of New Mexico. He has also been a pilot, engineer, oilfield well puller and roughneck, rancher, scuba diver, deputy sheriff, writer etc. In short, an interesting hombre......remind you of anyone?<br />New Mexico is known as the Land of Enchantment and Bert Murphy has done his best to take us on a trail of enchantment in looking at some of the works of the great western novelist, Louis L'Amour<br />FOOTNOTE: Murphy has also chanced his arm with a 'fictional'(?) hero, James Houston Slack (in 'Ventures West') - a story about the development of tough fighting man, from teenage orphan.	2001-05-27
US	49183765	RXLTKBYH9E380	0140131701	186430703	Great Plains	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Tumbling Tumbleweeds	This book is not a tourist book of the Great Plains but rather some interesting vignettes of the area as perceived by the author, Ian Frazier,about a vast expanse of 'big sky' territory.<br />Although not a history book, Frazier, weaves some interesting  historical facts on a variety of people, places and subjects. Thus, we read about the great Indian warrior, Crazy Horse  (a firm Frazier favourite), his adversary, Custer,and outlaws such as Billy the Kid and latter-day villains such as Bonnie and Clyde who all made appearances across the grand stage of the prairies.<br />We also learn of the impact of the railways and the effect of migration on the region with the rail companies preferring German workers over the French or Italians.<br />The miltary might of the USA is also portrayed as the author describes how parts of this seemingly tranquil territory has the capacity to effectively demolish the rest of the world, if American fire-power was ever fully unleashed. However, one thing the Russians were able to penetrate the US with was the humble tumbleweed. Frazier describes how they came originally from the Russian steppes. The author is something of a tumbling tumbleweed himself, moving as effortlessly from place to place in his rambles over this quintessential part of America.<br />Such a book can only give a flavour of the many states that constitute the Great Plains region.What Frazier has done for this far-away reader is to interest me in reading the history of the region in greater detail. Perhaps Walter Prescott Webb's similarly named book, (The Great Plains), will provide the detail missing from Frazier's cameo piece.	2001-04-23
US	49183765	RKMFOXKOU9LZ5	039571091X	350597649	Dakota: A Spiritual Geography	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	From the Big Apple to Lemmon-a moving journey.	This was one of the most enjoyable and stimulating reads I have had for a long time. It is doubtful whether any other reader of this book is so far removed, geographically, from Lemmon, South Dakota, (where the author Kathleen Norris lives), as myself. Yet, living in the open spaces of the wheatbelt in Western Australia allows me to probably identify with the author's situation more than a New Yorker (and NY city is where Norris relocated from - back to her family roots in SD). Her instinctive knowledge and portraits of small town life is applicable not only to her own patch, in the far northwest of SD, but also, in so many respects, to other lands.<br />Kathleen Norris gives a nice blend of Dakotan history-interwoven with topical,personal and spiritual issues. The chapter on the small church at Hope gives a great insight into the dynamics of a small farming/ranching community. 'Getting to Hope' filled me with the same. Presumably, the great colour picture on the cover of 'Dakota' was of this  prairie church that somehow typifies the spiritual geography,described by Norris in her text.<br />The author's ecumenical bent is obvious by the fact that, although solidly Protestant, she values the monastic life and, as a Benedictine oblate, she takes the reader with her, 'on retreat,' behind the walls, giving a realistic appraisal of the community of Catholic monks and making some interesting comparisons between monastic life and that of small towns. Visiting 'the Big Apple' Norris is told by a dying friend, &quot; I like the person you are becoming...those monks are good for you. Don't let them forget me.&quot; Norris notes:&quot; Suddenly I saw...what monks are for. Their hospitality allowed us to say our goodbyes and allowed my friend a chance to bless me and charge me with keeping her memory.&quot; Any lingering notions that Norris had of monks being an anachronism went out the window and into the Manhattan night!<br />In a sense, 'Dakota'did much the same for me. I read it in mid- January as I spent time in my parents home, usually alone,  cleaning up after my step-father's death (on Christmas Day). Birth, death, new life are important subjects and Norris has the ability and strength of writing to gently make her reader reflect on these great issues. She writes for all, yet writes for one.  (I suppose it is appropriate that I write this review on my birthday).<br />In writing this book Norris has crossed many boundaries-far wider than the Great Plains. She has not made me want to visit South Dakota- I have wanted to do that for a long time- but she has ensured that when I do I will certainly take-in her remote part of the state. However, one doesn't have to physically travel to Dakota to make a great journey- that happens when you commence to read this book. Highly recommended.	2001-03-04
US	49183765	RFR3I5JXXPD0R	0553247603	91946669	Under the Sweetwater Rim	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Vintage L'Amour - 'Sweet water' is sweet reading	Has Louis L'Amour ever written a bad book?  If so, I have never read one, and in fact this is one of his best. The setting is deep in Indian country - 200 miles west of Fort Laramie and right from the start the master of the western genre has your concentration as much as a wagon master going through hostile territory. In fact that's how the story starts with a grisly massacre of a wagon train party. The slaughter, however, was not the work of Indians but rather a vicious bunch of owlhoots who have made off with a missing wagon, a fortune in gold and the daughter of Major Devereaux. The wild card is Lt. Tenadore Brian,who is riding with the missing wagon against orders. In the hands of the master story teller those few ingredients are enough to weave a engrossing drama of the Old West that  makes the reader keep going as relentlessly as Major Devereaux's career in the cavalry or with the determination of Lt.Brian to get the crooks - and the girl. For fans of L'Amour, and westerns in general, 'Under the Sweetwater Rim' is indeed sweet reading.	2001-01-01
US	49183765	R2F3K901SVT908	1857821769	183809002	The Great Betrayal: The Memoirs of Ian Douglas Smith	Books	5	62	67	N	N	Selling-out Rhodesia	If you are British or American you will need a strong stomach to read this book. Indeed you may well want to throw-up at the political chicanery and cowardice of your politicians and diplomats. One examaple is the attitudes of Lords Carrington and Soames. During the 1980 Zimbabwe-Rhodesia election, Ian Smith, ( former Rhodesian PM, 1964-79 ) reminded Soames, the British Governor responsible for overseeing fair play, that the Lancaster House agreement was being breached by massive political intimidation by ZANU(PF) forces. Soames conceded that he had received over 1000 affidavits, many endorsed by British observers who had witnessed Mugabe's comrades distinctive campaigning style-with the point of a gun!<br />When Smith, who had handed government over to Bishop Abel Muzorewa in mid-1979, reminded Soames to do his duty and disqualify the gangsters from participating in the poll, Soames pathetically replied that Carrington ( foreign secretary in Thatcher's new Tory government) advised that such a course would be unacceptable to the OAU (Organisation of African Unity) and that &quot;the principles and standards on which you and I were brought up to believe in, are no longer part of this world.&quot;  One could add, probably because certain British 'gentlemen' see no further need to stand up for such values!<br />When you add the craveness of virtually every senior British politician from MacMillan onwards, plus the duplicity of the South African government under Vorster, and the incompetent Carter Administration in the US, you have a sorry history of the decline of western values, something that has endured for the latter 40 years of the 20th century.<br />Ian Smith has written superb memoirs and his 1997 warnings in this book ( and also to this reviewer, via the phone in early Jan.1998 ) over Mugabe's politicisation of farm land is now even more apparent as the Zimbabwe gangster engages in his 'ethnic cleansing' against white farmers as a sordid distraction to his his20 year rule of disaster and destruction.<br />Of course those western liberals who were so distressed about the political and social life of Rhodesia, under Smith, remain strangely mute over the real atrocities of Mugabe, preferring, like those who preceded the Good Samaritan, to pass by on the other side to another 'politically correct' crusade.<br />Whatever faults Smith had pales into insignificance besides his detractors and the hoodlums and nitwits running Zimbabwe today.	2000-12-31
US	49183765	R1HR1B0BJQD9VG	0719548586	17231486	Those Bloody Women: Three Heroines of the Boer War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Heroines in the 'last gentleman's war'	The Anglo-Boer War in South Africa, 1899-1902, may have been known as the 'last gentleman's war' but it also produced some remarkable women. Author Brian Roberts looks at 3 of the lion-hearted females of the conflict and the title of his book is derived from Lord Kitchener's remark about one of them, as 'that bloody woman.' Lady Sarah Churchill, aunt of Winston, was a conventional jingoistic imperialist involved in one of the great sieges of the South African conflict at Mafeking ; Hansie van Warmelo was a staunchly pro-republican Boer (Afrikaner) who worked clandestinely for her people against the British army of occupation ; and of course the female colossus of the war, Emily Hobhouse, still the much-loved Englishwoman amongst Afrikaners for exposing the neglect, incompetence, and the appalling death rate in the British concentration camps. Kitchener loathed her but then he didn't have to face the consequences of his military policy that inflicted misery and death on 26,000 Boer women and children.<br />The two small Boer republics, the Orange Free State and the South African Republic (Transvaal),  ultimately failed in their attempts to beat the British invasion but their heroes and heroines are many - including those mentioned in this fine publication.	2000-12-30
US	49183765	R24J5NIPEYOQBN	1868121607	256703774	The imperial presidency: P.W. Botha, the first 10 years	Books	4	5	6	N	N	PW Botha- South Africa's 'Great Crocodile'	South African journalist Brian Pottinger's book, published in 1988, is  about the career of his country's former political strongman, PW  Botha- the Groot Krokodil (Great Crocodile). The sub-title of  \\"Imperial Presidency\\" is \\"PW Botha the first 10  years.\\"In fact Botha's careeer ended with his retirement just 11  months later,in mid August 1989, when, he abruptly announced his  retirement 3 weeks before a general election which saw his successor,  FW de Klerk, returned to power-the last white National Party leader of  the RSA. Pottinger's book is not a biography of PW but rather a review  of Botha's tumultous era at the helm of his embattled country;what  sort of nation he sought to establish, his limitations, mistakes as  well as successes and opportunities gained and squandered. The first  part looks at PW's accession to power amidst a bitter party fight  after the Info-gate scandal which cost Information Minister, Connie  Mulder, any chance of succeeding the retiring PM,John Vorster, in the  top job. Instead out of the political wreckage Defence Minister PW  Botha emerged victorious. The second part looks at PW's victory over  his own party's conservatives, his cajoling of the white electorate to  accept limited reform, socio-economic changes, improved  government-business relations, the co-opting of minorities into the  political system (ie. coloureds and Indians) and foreign and regional  relations. Thirdly, Pottinger looks at the failures of PW's  initiatives, and the rise of the 'securocrats' amidst the escalating  domestic violence. The last section looks at PW's legacy and he is  more critical of him than I would be, given that Botha was a reformer  in almost impossible circumstances- ANC violence at home,  international meddlers abroad decrying every reform as insufficient,  and an increasingly powerful Right-wing Conservative Party, that had  developed as a breakaway from the ruling Nats, quickly becoming the  official Opposition. Interestingly Pottingerconcludes his book by  describing the task of leading South Africa back to 'limited  international acceptance' as 'difficult to conceive.... short of  surrender to a black majority government-something which is unlikely  even in the medium-term.' Just over a year later, in Feb.1990, Mandela  was released, serious negotiations between the Nats and the ANC begun  and by 1994 the last white government on the African continent had  gone. Some did label it a 'surrender,'others a 'courageous acceptance  of reality.'     Since his retirement,Botha, now almost 85, has been  hounded and harassed by the ANC government through the Orwellian star  chamber, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, a one-sided ,  stacked body that is prepared to look at the sins of the former  government, rather than the ANC. However, Pottinger's book is an  interesting read about the second last white leader of the RSA and  the frenetic times in which he operated.    Footnote: PW Botha died on 31October 2006. He was 90 years old.	2000-12-14
US	49183765	R3T5LAT88GNM44	0786707046	599820512	Churchill: Wanted Dead or Alive	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Churchill in the South African War, ( 1899-1902)	This time last year, appropriately enough, I was reading this book of Churchill's epic escape from the States Model School in Pretoria, an event that had happened 100 years earlier to the very day.The 12 December 1999 was also a day in which I lost a friend in a road accident, thus,  the centennial anniversary date becomes etched with the personal. Churchill was clearly a larger-than-life figure all of his life as his grandaughter and author Celia Sandys clearly shows in this historical work in which she followed in his footsteps, visiting campsites, battlefields etc and speaking to descendants of friends and foes alike. Contrary to the assertions of some other reviewers it is a well written and enjoyable book. Some of the interesting vignettes include the detective work the author did on tracking down the gold watches that Churchill had sent to various people for their assistance in his escape from the Boers (or Afrikaners as they are known today). At the time of publication Mrs Sandys had located 6 of the 8 watches. Mrs Sandys is not afraid to challenge Churchill's assertions that he was captured by Gen. Louis Botha himself (later the Union's first Prime Minister, 1910-19)and she rightly dismisses talk that there was ever a romantic entanglement with Helen Botha , the General's daughter. The author is partly correct when she records that Churchill's &quot;huge political ambitions demanded a wife who would be a political asset...&quot; However, that would cut both ways, something Helen Botha alluded to 60 years later when she said it was unlikely that she could fall for him as she was &quot;a Transvaaler.&quot; Her father and Churchill may have &quot;got along famously&quot; but it is the author who is disingenous, not Helen Botha, in considering that a personal political rapport could see the leader of the Afrikaner volk, or a member of his family, contemplate  such a marriage -particularly after the deaths of some 26,000 Boer women and children in the world's first concentration camps - British concentration camps.  Nevertheless, this is a good read about a remarkable soldier-stateman in his younger days. Enjoy.	2000-12-12
US	49183765	R1Q1H8MV6RWY4	0195088476	347956212	Paul Revere's Ride	Books	4	16	17	N	N	History that rattles along as quickly as Revere's ride.	There must be something different about the air or water in New Jersey-or at least in certain areas of the state. That is the only conclusion I can come to to when one NJ reviewer(with history honours) describes this book as &quot; absolutely boring,&quot; whilst another labels author, David Hackett Fischer, as &quot;cynical.&quot; Well, as an Australian with an honours in American history let me say I found Fischer's book absolutely riveting-moving as quickly as Paul Revere, on Brown Beauty, through the New England countryside. As for criticising the current generation, Fischers,comparison with the revolutionary generation is very mild stuff-a passing comment on page 175- that favours the reflective processes of the past generation over society of today. Paul Revere's ride is not just about the night of the epic event to warn the colonists that the Regulars were coming but also about the tensions leading up to the 'shots heard around the world,' and the nightmare journey of the British redcoats on their return from the Battle of Concord, after the earlier skirmish at Lexington-an event that aroused the colonists like bees to a honey pot.Interestingly, Fischer describes many of the British officers, far from being confident after Lexington,as being deeply concerned about proceeding to Concord. History proved them wise judges.   Fischer also includes an extensive historiography of Revere and his changing role over the years- from being a mythical hero to being debunked,denied and reviled. Readers can draw their own conclusion on this active silversmith, Whig and Federalist whose long life, (1734-1818), covered some of the truly great moments in American history. Fischer's great narrative brings back all the atmosphere of that seminal period and the reader is virtually transported back to that heady time when Revere rode not only into the dark New England night but also into the pages of history.	2000-11-21
US	49183765	R36LY8J09C1K65	0849916062	835590568	Worth Fighting for	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	worth voting for	This book is not as substantial as Dan Quayle's excellent vice-presidential memoir, &quot;Standing Firm,&quot;-but then it was never meant to be that sort of book. Instead Quayle wrote &quot;Worth Fighting For&quot; to expound his views to the US electorate in a bid to enhance his prospects for the Republican presidential nomination for 2000. As it transpired DQ dropped out of the race on 27 September 1999, after the Iowa straw poll. However, the man who has consistently been a values-driven politician has produced a coherent set of principles that epitomises the values of middle-America.It remains to be seen what his political future is but I would submit that this GOP stalwart is far from finished-and may well be a contender in 2004 (if Gore wins), or 2008 if Bush is successful next week. Quayle's book is divided into 6 parts with multiple chapters in four of the categories-The Cultural Divide,Freedom and the Middle-Class family, America and the Global Economy and Security Abroad. DQ always analyses issues on whether it benefits the American family-and this has been a consistent theme in his political life- he has, as Richard Nixon once said, 'the right instincts.' Perhaps that is why he has been so vilified by those whose agenda is so very different from the traditional values that have made the US, and western society in general, so great. As Barbara Whitehead noted, in her important article, 'Dan Quayle Was Right' ( &quot;The Atlantic Monthly,&quot; April 1993). He still is, not only on family policy, but on a whole raft of issues, including privacy, equal treatment,tax relief, the value of faith and his opposition to activist judges ( he effectively chronicles some of the tragic consequences caused by these judicial meddlers). My main disagreement with DQ is over gun-control, something he doesn't favour but I do.This is a cultural difference as the country I live-in has not had a gun-culture. Quayle's book is not a must-read but it is a book that should be read by thinking Americans, particularly by swinging voters, conservatives and GOP voters. Hopefully if a Bush administration is formed in Washington, the former Veep will gain a cabinet post or alternatively try for a governorship. His courage, decency and family values should not be wasted.  For standing firm and  articulating policies worth fighting for, Dan Quayle is someone worth having, and, worth voting for.	2000-10-28
US	49183765	R3CSVWE5RWV082	0679456953	331533627	Nixon in Winter : His Final Revelations about Diplomacy, Watergate, and Life out of the Arena	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Winter warmth	Monica Crowley has written a gem of a book detailing aspects of the last four years of Richard Nixon's life. Born in 1968, the year of RN's first presidential victory, the young author served as foreign policy assistant to the 37th president during those last years,1990-4. What strikes the reader is the fact that Nixon was always the man in the arena. Although he resigned the presidency in 1974 RN continued to be a significant influence in foreign policy due to the sagacious advice he gave to his successors, both in public  speeches, articles and books as well as in private briefings and memorandums.To use a showjumping analogy, he may no longer have been the man in the saddle, after 1974, but he was still in the arena constructing the course and putting a few others over the jumps! This is also a book about books. Nixon was a prolific author and Crowley worked on his last two books, 'Seize the Moment' and 'Beyond Peace,'. The author outlines the energy and passion of RN in his preparation of these publications.. Crowley divides her book into neat compartments. Thus, under the heading Nixon and the World, there are chapters on the end of the Cold War, China, the Gulf War and the legacy of Vietnam.There is also interesting chapters under Scandal and Reflections. The Nixon- haters will hate this book because it does not portray RN as the Devil, a fascist, evil or any other of the highly biased descriptions that this highly intelligent man and political strategist had to constantly endure throughout his political life. However, neither has Crowley simply written a puff-job on her former boss. She shows Nixon railing against his old enemies-Democrats, liberals, the media and even his own Republican side but there is also humour in RN's outbursts that frequently had me chuckling.Indeed, even though I work in the Australian media, it is hard not to sympathise with some of Nixon's allegations of continual media bias that he considered dated back to the Hiss affair.  Aboveall Crowley has produced a lively read of America's GOP, (grand old pol), in the winter of his life, that allows the reader to make their own decisions on this complex political figure-surely a refreshing change from the ravings of some writers who attempt to reduce Nixon to the same level as themselves. In doing so, and in using an insider's knowledge of the man, Ms Crowley has provided much winter warmth.	2000-09-27
US	49183765	R2ISQLG2DZNZ8W	0936505095	921731793	Films of Hopalong Cassidy	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Grand memories-Hoppy rides again	For over half a century the name Hopalong Cassidy meant something to  either readers,movie-goers, radio listeners or TV viewers.The fictional  book hero, created by Clarence E.Mulford,first appeared in 1905 and lasted  until 1941. By that time the red-thatched, hard-cussing cowpoke had been  transformed by actor William Boyd into an urbane, polished knight-gallant.  This is the Hoppy that Francis Nevins looks at and, as the name of his book  implies,the author exhaustively details all 66 of these superior B grade  western Cassidy films,between 1935-48.These films continued to be run into  the 1960s such was the great popularity of Boyd's Hoppy, in the 1950's, via  TV, radio and the actor's marketing genius in promoting a plethora of Hoppy  goods, including food, toys, clothing etc.Nevins also catalogues the TV  Cassidy series but does not engage in detailed information on these as many  of the early TV Hoppy shows were cut-down versions of the earlier films.  The book is extensively laced with large black and white photos, from all  the movies and, together with a lively text, brings back some great  memories to all the Hoppy fans the world over who were growing-up in the  1950s,or earlier. As Nevins notes, 'the best of the Hopalong Cassidy movies  are among the finest westerns ever made.'However this book is not just a  puff-job. Nevins is also critical of some of the films and dismisses the TV  series as amongst the worst westerns (that view of course was not shared by  1950's children who couldn't get enough of their hero-and of course the TV  series was pitched at a juvenile audience). Although forgotten today, Bill  Boyd was a huge-star for over 20 years as Hopalong, completely fusing his  persona with that of the cowboy.The role seemed to change the man. From a  frivolous silent-era heart-throb(with 4 failed marriages) whose career  seemed over, until he accepted the Cassidy role in 1935, Boyd became the  epitome of everything wholesome and decent.In 1937 he started two enduring  partnerships,one with his fifth wife,the actress Grace Bradley,the other  with Topper, his four-legged ghostly grey co-star. These partnerships were  severed only by death-Topper's in 1961 and Boyd's in 1972 (Grace is still  alive).Boyd's acts of kindness to children, particularly the sick, are  legendary and in films and life Boyd represented the best of American  values. Thus, whilst making a store-appearance in the Deep-South, Boyd  refused to allow the  segregation of children waiting to see him. Hoppy, as  always,  continued to 'ride-tall'. The Cassidy films too showed great  sensitivity in portraying Indians and Afro-Americans in an era not  particularly known for such portrayals.A minor criticism of this detailed  book relates to Boyd's birth and death. Nevins, like a majority of writers  on William Boyd, states the actor was born in 1898. In fact, Boyd was born  in 1895. Likewise, Nevins states that Boyd died on 13 September 1972  whereas all other references I have read state he died on 12 September.  Nevertheless, Nevins has written an interesting book on a great western  star analysing the films in the context of the times.    Footnote: Grace Boyd died 21 September 2010 - on her 97th birthday- surviving her husband by 38 years.	2000-09-08
US	49183765	R26BPZER8HRT8A	0316880973	516181105	Bradman: An Australian Hero	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Time to declare for the Don	When Nelson Mandela commenced his long walk to freedom, just over a decade ago, he wanted to know whether Sir Donald Bradman, Australia's only cricketing knight, was still alive. A few days ago 'The Don'celebrated his 92nd birthday (born 27/8/08)and despite finishing his Test cricket career in 1948 is still regarded as the greatest Australian. Bradman's name is synonymous with fair play, modesty and excellence. His Test average of 99.94 per innings is double that of most other top-line batsmen (Graeme Pollock of South Africa is second, with an average of 60.97, and I deem myself as very fortunate in seeing his best score of 274 at Durban in 1970). British Labour peer, Lord Charles Williams, has written a superb book which places Bradman's outstanding feats in the context of Australia growing-up in the world. As Williams notes,the heroes of most other nations are symbolised by the warlike spirit of nationalism. However, Australia has never had a civil war or national revolution, nor has it ever been at war with near- neighbours. Thus, for Australians sport has become an integral part of politics and Aussie sporting champions achieved a status several notches higher than elsewhere.Accordingly, Bradman's deeds against an English 'army' clad in white was not to be compared to Babe Ruth's baseball feats (and the pair did meet in 1932)but rather to George Washington's victories against the British redcoats!( yes, I am exaggerating and The Don would have cringed at such suggestions but it simply helps to explain why opinion polls of today invariably rate him as the greatest Australian-not just the best cricketer or sportsman).Williams taps into the Australia psyche brilliantly and records just how important Don Bradman was to a fledgling Depression-era nation at the end of the world. Bradman and champion racehorse Phar Lap gave Australians something to cheer about as both proved themselves against the great nations of the world ( Phar Lap won brilliantly at his only startin the USA before dying in his paddock). For anyone remotely interested in Australia or cricket this book is required reading. UPDATE (27/8/01) Sir Donald Bradman would have been 93 today-but unfortunately he died on 25 February 2001, an event that almost brought the nation to a standstill, causing much introspection about the man, his deeds, and his influence on the nation.	2000-08-30
US	49183765	R3RX3CBPBQQYA5	0809001209	172886736	The Minutemen and Their World (American Century)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Village history at it's best	Robert Gross has produced a work that is a pleasure to read in examining the town of Concord, through the lives of ordinary townspeople, before and after that memorable day of the 19 April 1775.This indeed is 'bottom-up' history but Gross ensures the interest never wanes through his sensitive and vibrant narrative.There were only some 1500 persons(about 265 families) in this very special town that witnessed the first battle of the American Revolution(although the first shots were fired in neighbouring Lexington, that was hardly a battle).Gross produces some interesting social 'gems' such as magistrates being regarded as 'fathers' to the people. Modern western society has long since ceased to have such faith in the judiciary-in fact they are often regarded as the enemy within! Church politics also had a larger significance in the life of 18th century Concordians than today.The aftermath of the Great Awakening (the huge spiritual revivals that swept the American colonies between the late 1730s and early 1740s) is also covered well by Gross in discussing the stuggles between the Old and New Lights. The battles of Dr Joseph Lee, for church membership, are particularly interesting. Gross also highlights the strains of war and the decrease in military enlistments from Concord as the war progresses. As a study of a community in an important era of America's history this social history is highly recommended.	2000-08-27
US	49183765	R2KZ5NCMWWNRJP	0349109400	516181105	Bradman	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A 5 star book for a 5 star Australian hero	.When Nelson Mandela commenced his long walk to freedom, just over a  decade ago,he wanted to know whether Sir Donald Bradman, Australia's only  cricketing knight, was still alive.As I write this review &quot;The  Don&quot; is only one day off his 92nd birthday(born 27/8/08). Any lover of  cricket, the world over, knows the name of Bradman-his name is synonymous  with fair play, modesty and excellence.His test batting average of 99.94  runs per average is almost double other quality test batsmen.(I consider  myself fortunate in seeing the second best, South Africa's Graeme  Pollock,average 60.97, make his best score of 274 in Durban in 1970). In  fact Bradman only needed to make 4 runs in his last test innings to average  a 100-instead he was out for 0-one of the few 'ducks'of his career. British  Labour peer, Lord Charles Williams,has written a superb book which is as  much about Australia as it is on our nation's  greatest sportsman.Williams  places Bradman's great feats in the context of Australia growing up in the  world. As Williams notes, the heroes in almost every other country  symbolised the spirit of warlike nationalism. However Australia has never  had a civil war or revolution, nor been at war with her near-neighbours.For  Australians sport became an integral part of politics and sporting  champions achieved a status several ranks higher than elsewhere. Thus,  Bradman's deeds against an English 'army'clad in white,were akin not to  Babe Ruth's baseball feats (and the pair did meet) but rather, as  significant as George Washington's victories against the British redcoats!!  Even today, many years retired, Bradman is always rated as the greatest  Australian in opinion polls ( not just the best sportsman).Williams taps  the Australian psyche brilliantly, particularly the Depression era where a  fledgling nation, at the end of the earth, needed heroes. The two 'stars'  who provided the boost to national confidence in those dark days are still  remembered asAustralian icons-'Big Red' (the champion racehorse Phar Lap,  who died in the USA after brilliantly winning at his only American  start)and Don Bradman. For anyone remotely interested in Australia and  cricket this is a must-read.	2000-08-26
US	49183765	R1HTF2STE8ZRZC	0060177586	855224920	Standing Firm: Dan Quayle	Books	4	8	8	N	N	More elephant than Quayle	Perhaps it is appropriate that Dan Quayle belongs to the GOP because in  his public life he has displayed elephantine qualities-strength,  courage,decency,loyalty,love of family and an ability to fight back from  adversity. His book, Standing Firm,reflects his values. From the searing  media attacks of the 1988 campaign,lack of support from GOP heavyweights  like Jim Baker, and the bruising vice -presidential debates of that era,  Quayle would have been less than human if he had not been unsettled. He  admits that in that early period he quit trusting in himself.For some  liberals he would never be trusted. In refusing to bow to trendy positions  Quayle continued to attract odium.Yet, in his defence of the traditional  family over the 'Murphy Brown position' he espoused eternal values. Some of  his critics preferred to concentrate on his incorrect spelling of potato! (  Well, the rest of the English speaking world has always known that  Americans are funny spellers-big deal!) In reading this book you quickly  discover Quayle is a values-driven politician. Precisely because of the  poverty of values amongst today's elites Quayle's views will continue to be  ridiculed despite the fact that he articulates the views of middle America.  This book give some idea of the challenges and loneliness that a Veep  faces,particularly one under constant media pressure. In standing firm to  his values Dan Quayle fought back-his performance in the 1992  vice-presidential debate (against Al Gore) mirrored the increased assurance  of the man-and this book should be reflected on by his fellow Americans and  perhaps those further afield.	2000-08-25
US	49183765	R3CKW9041APUA3	0670870218	642048318	Liberty!: The American Revolution	Books	3	24	26	N	N	A revolution in oils	It is doubtful whether any other book on the American Revolution could  compete with Thomas Fleming's 'Liberty' when it comes to artwork. This  illustrated history is ablaze with colour- including great paintings of the  Battle of Concord, the redcoats advancing up Breeds Hill (often mistakenly  called Bunker Hill in other works),the fierce fire-fight at the Guildford  Courthouse,Washington and von Steuben reviewing that ragged Continental  army at Valley Forge, and much more.  In fact, the failing of illustrated  histories is that they often distract from the text or, alternatively, have  an inadequate text (Fleming however, writes well and for an overview of the  Revolution this is a fine book).The other distraction is the frequent  stories within the story. Whilst giving additional information( eg on women  in the revolution,the role of indians, or life in the 13 colonies etc) it  tends to distract the readers attention from the main text. These  criticisms aside, this book could never be described as dull-either in text  or pictures- and is a good starting point for the general reader to learn  more about America's beginnings as a nation.	2000-08-25
US	49183765	R1AY0Y1NBBROOO	088740765X	843255390	Hopalong Cassidy: King of the Cowboy Merchandisers (A Schiffer Book for Collectors)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Happy Trails-riding down memory lane	Author Harry Rinker does a great job in bringing back the images of a  forgotten hero, Hopalong Cassidy as portrayed by actor William Boyd. His  book recaptures, vividly, the massive Hoppy merchandise of the 1950's when  Boyd-a marketing genius- was a superstar to children the world over,  including this Australian who, as a six year old during Boyd's Australian  tour of 1954, was absolutely devastated that Hoppy didn't come west to WA.  We got the Queen instead! This book, complete with lavish colour plates of  the thousands of Hoppy items is not just a book for collectors of Cassidy  memorabilia.Rinker's early chapters include the effect of Hoppy on him as a  child, the evolution of Cassidy in novels films and television, the history  of Boyd's visionary marketing skills and an interview with his widow,  Grace, who is still alive some 28 years after her husband's death. The  durability of the film and TV Hoppy (vastly different from novelist  Clarence E Mulford's original character) lasted for 20 years thanks to Boyd   fusing his own persona with that of the character. Boyd commenced in the  Cassidy role in 1935, as a middle aged actor of 40( making 66 films as  Cassidy over the next 13 years)  and retired in 1954 as a TV and radio  hero, internationally renowned. The transformation of Boyd into a hero of  children is well captured by Rinker- albeit briefly- although a more  detailed biography of William Boyd is long overdue. Boyd's  morals,responsiblity,concern and many acts of kindness towards his youthful  supporters, as Hoppy, was an example of the very best America had to  offer-and America's best is very good indeed. That is why people who grew  up in the middle of the 20th century will always recall with affection the  black-garbed knight gallant of their childhood - Bill Boyd as Hopalong  Cassidy.	2000-08-22
US	49183765	R36L60CGE99PLS	090096622X	506663978	Mannerheim: The Years of Preparation	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Mannerheim-Finland's George Washington	Carl Gustav Emil Mannerheim is to Finnish history what George Washington is to American history. Both were soldier-statesman involved in huge  political,social and military upheavals both in their younger careers and  even more so in their more senior years. However unlike Washington, who was  separated by 3,400 miles of ocean from his powerful foe,Mannerheim in World  War2 had to contend with an enemy just over the border. Three years ago a  Finnish diplomat in Canberra sent me JEO Screen's small- but excellent-  book (159 pages),' Mannerheim-The Years of Preparation,' a publication that  concentrates on the great Finnish Marshal's early life. From aristocratic  stock, Mannerheim entered the  Russian cavalry(Finland's sovereign at that  stage was the Czar)and like the young Washington, and indeed the young  Winston Churchill, was always involved in larger-than-life events.Whether  at ceremonial functions, such as the coronation of Czar Nicholas the  Second,or fighting in the Russo-Japanese War(1904-5), Mannerheim was always  to the forefront, being involved in reconnaissance work in the Battle of  Mudken,having his horse shot from under him on one patrol. Screen notes  that Mannerheim's fearless bravery in the ill-fated Manchurian campaign  would be repeated many times during and after World War 1. Indeed. Between  1906-08 Mannerheim turned into a latter-day Marco Polo with his great  horseback expedition, on behalf of the Russian Army, across Asia.  Ostensibly he was to accompany a French professor, Paul Pelliot, on an  archaeological tour but in reality he was to gather political and military  intelligence for the Russian General Staff whose interest in China stemmed  from their expansionist dreams (something Mannerheim would have to confront  later as Finnish C-I-C in the Winter War of 1939-40). It has to be  remembered that Russo-Chinese relations were as strained in this period as  they would become half a century later during the Cold War period. Screen  gives the reader a brief historical context to Mannerheim's mission. This  book is like an entree, it leaves you wanting more and there is so much  more about the man who became the greatest Finn of all.Unfortunately Screen  finishes his book with Mannerheim departing a disintegrating Russia,  controlled by the Red mob, and a brief summary.Perhaps, the book could have  been extended somewhat to include more about the declaration of  independence  period and the ensuing White-Red struggles for control of   Finland's soul. Nevertheless this a fine book about the early life of a  great man from a small country.    _	2000-08-18
US	49183765	RWQ2ZDCVJ5D0F	081333652X	498578869	The Brave Bostonians: Hutchinson, Quincy, Franklin, And The Coming Of The American Revolution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	loyal patriots	Engrossing, a real page-turner and indeed a study of how to write well and  bring history to life. Ben from Brooklyn's review is totally concurred with  by this Aussie. Author Philip McFarland's superb narrative brings back the  diplomatic tensions and intrigues as the mother country and her colonial  siblings slide to war. Sir Thomas Hutchison, a great if tragic American  Loyalist figure is portrayed sensitively as his lonely exile becomes a  permanent fixture, to his death in 1780 with the American Revolution still  raging. On the patriot side,the author describes the 'turning' of that  colossus and diplomatic agent, Ben Franklin, after being humiliated by the  Privy Council, over leaking Hutchison's stolen correspondence. Josiah  Quincy is the tragic young figure in all the diplomatic wrangling  1774-75,  dying aboard ship on his return voyage, in American waters. Above all, the  author does not engage in an anti-British tirade and indeed Dartmouth and  Lord Richard Howe are revealed as having warm feelings towards the  Americans. For anyone interested in the American Revolution this is a  must-read.	2000-08-08
US	49183765	RREYZ2HWIGK9C	0061093904	855224920	Standing Firm	Books	4	6	16	N	N	More elephant than Quayle.	Perhaps it is appropriate that Dan Quayle belongs to the GOP because in  his public life he has displayed elephantine  qualities-strength,courage,decency,loyalty, love of family and an ability  to fight back from adversity. His book Standing Firm reflects his  values.From the searing  media attacks of the 1988 campaign, lack of  support from GOP heavyweights like Jim Baker, and the bruising  vice-presidential debates of that era, Quayle would have been less than  human if he had not been unsettled.He admits that in that period he quit  trusting in himself. For some liberals he could never be trusted. In  refusing to bow to trendy positions Quayle continued to attract odium. Yet  in his defence of the traditional family over the 'Murphy Brown position'he  espoused eternal values.  Some of his critics preferred to concentrate on  his spelling of potato! (Well the rest of the English speaking world has  always known that Americans are funny spellers - big deal!). In reading  this book you quickly discover that Quayle is a values-driven politician.  Precisely because of the poverty of values amongst today's elites Quayle's  views will continue to be ridiculed-despite articulating the views of  middle America. This book gives some ideas of the challenges and lonliness  that a Veep faces, particularly one under constant media pressure. In  standing firm to his values Dan Quayle fought back - his performance in the  1992 vice-presidential debates mirrored the increased assurance of the  man-and this book should be reflected on by his fellow Americans-and  perhaps those further afield!	2000-08-08
