US	49185610	R24IIYSE9SWSJI	0020641400	518321023	Truth in Religion:  The Plurality of Religions and the Unity of Truth	Books	5	50	53	N	N	If I could have everyone on the book read one book...	It would be this one, without a doubt.  First, though, I can't help but comment on the comical Publisher's Weekly review which calls the book \\"parochial,\\" \\"dogmatic,\\" \\"controversial,\\" and \\"devisive.\\"  Apart from not being able to spell \\"divisive\\" the author of that review must find controversial the idea that an indicative proposition can't be both true and false at the same time and the same sense.  Or is that the dogmatic point?  One wonders if the reviewer thinks her charges true (and that's different than \\"wanders\\" for the Pub Weekly folks).  Perhaps, consistent with subjectivism, the reviewer is just expressing her taste--I don't like truth-claims--just as she perhaps doesn't like spam and eggs.  But then why does her expressing her opinion on the pages of Publisher's Weekly count as journalism, but Adler expressing his in a treatise count as dogmatism.  Apparently \\"dogmatism\\" only applies to *unfashionable* opinions.   <br /> <br />At any rate, the book is a crucial corrective to the sickness of our times: the subjectivisation of religion.  Bring me a good atheist any day, but keep the subjectivism to yourself (it only seems appropriate, doesn't it?).  This book has some really neat features including a nice little primer on logic.  The main target is the likes of Joseph Campbell who defines a religion as a myth mistakenly believed to be true.  (Try telling that to Thomas Aquinas Joe-Joe.)  The key distinction the book is built upon is the distinction between Truth and Taste.  When one makes a truth-claim, the claim is governed by the laws of logic.  When one expresses a matter of taste one is only reporting facts about oneself (and trivial ones about the object of the statement).  The key difference is this: when I say \\"Squash is gross\\" and you say \\"Squash is good\\" we aren't really disagreeing.  All I mean is \\"I don't like squash\\" and all you mean is \\"I do like squash.\\"  Those statements don't conflict.  But when I say \\"The top quark exists\\" and you say \\"There is no top quark\\" we've made conflicting truth-claims.  When it comes to squash, we can both be right--not so with quarks.  To say that there is a God is to make a truth-claim.  It is to assert the existence of an individual, just like in the quark case.  Either there's a top quark or there isn't-either there's a God or there isn't.  This book will take you on a tour of such thoughts and help you get your thoughts on religion organized.  There's still plenty of room for disagreement, so there's no dogmatism here (pace Pub Weekly gal), but at least we will know wherein we disagree and how to go about discovering the truth. <br />	2005-09-20
US	49185610	R3C4H9HL0IWFBK	0268011591	180086782	Introductory Modal Logic	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Must read for student of philosophical logic	This book is *such* a classic, and I hope it never goes out of print.  Although I agree that answers to exercises would be nice, there *are* many examples of proofs worked out in the text, so that you can test your knowledge by mentally reconstructing the proofs (though, I lament, he uses shortcuts on occasion, which is really hard on the first-time ML student (one reason for only four stars)).  Hughs and Cresswell use an axiomatic method, which I *vastly* prefer to the natural deduction method used in Konynkyk (which seems at times unintuitive).  However, his discussion of the philosophical aspects of modal logic, including the justification of theorems is unparalleled in an introductory text.  Please keep in mind that \\"introductory\\" is relative.  You must be quite familiar with first-order predicate logic to use this book and a slight knowledge of model theory wouldn't hurt either, because he presents three different systems of quantified modal logic and he rejects the first two by giving semantic arguments (yes, it's frustrating to learn a system only to scrap it for philosophical reasons, but it is invaluable for understanding the deeper whats and whyfores of modal logic).  HOWEVER, I wish to emphasize that this is such a good introduction to the *phlosophy* of modal logic that you could read the book with little or no logical acumen and still benefit immensely if you are interested in the questions \\"What is modal logic?\\"  \\"Why is modal logic controversial?\\"  \\"Why is modal logic philosophically useful?\\"  It is in this sense, I think, that the text is truly introductory.  If you read any of Plantinga's _Nature of Necessity_ and liked it, you will want to read this book to learn more about the system of logic P. uses.  If you haven't read it, but you read Konyndyk and like it, then you will want to read _The Nature of Necessity_ next.  If you want more technical stuff, then Hughs and Cresswell is the standard, but Ted Sider now has a text on his website called \\"Philosophically Useful Logic.\\"  Most likely, if you've come as far as looking up this book on Amazon, and if you've actually read this longish review, you'll want to read this book.	2005-09-11
US	49185610	RK6MU4261NG6T	1592440223	135966023	The Roots of Evil	Books	4	14	16	N	N	I return to it again and again.	Though much work has been done on the subject since its original publication, this book has insights and a basic framework for addressing the issue which bring me back to it time and again.  It is rooted in the wisdom of Augustine, Aquinas, and Lewis, but is contemporary without being technical.  If you had trouble with Plantinga's _God, Freedom, and Evil_ but are beyond _Why Bad Things Happen to Good People_, then this book might be just the happy medium for you.  On the other hand, don't skip it just because you're an analytical philosopher.  There is some interesting stuff in here for you to.	2005-09-07
US	49185610	R2B583R776EPF	0767420330	784506079	The Power of Logic	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Probability is the Very Guide of Life	This is *such* a good book.  When I reviewed the MS for the publisher, the copy I had included a chapter on modal logic which did not make it into the First Edition.  I hope it makes it into later additions.  Being a thoroughgoing probablist, I especially appreciated the chapter on probability theory.  Given the widespread use of probability theory in contemporary analytic philosophy, there's almost no excuse for a philosophy program to use any other book for philosophy majors (except, of course, _Socratic Logic_).	2005-01-14
US	49185610	RLACLS0SSXZON	0830816828	863736073	The Journey: A Spiritual Roadmap for Modern Pilgrims	Books	5	10	15	N	N	One of the Best Dialogs and a Worldview Handbook to Boot	Unlike Kreeft's earlier dialogs, this one is written in a richer prose.  Instead of just alternating statements, this book is literarily narrated by the persona on the journey.  The journey is one through a plethora of worldviews by means of-of course-questioning.  Each chapter deals with a different question, often a leading Socratic question which contains the answer in the question itself.  Just check out this Table of Contents and I think you'll find it irresistible.  <br />1. THE BEGINNING: To Question Or Not To Question, That Is The Question.<br />2. THE SKEPTIC: Is It True That There's No Truth?<br />3. THE CYNIC: Can't We Be Cynical About Cynicism?<br />4. THE NIHILIST: Is The Meaning Of Life That Life Is Meaningless?<br />5. THE MATERIALIST: what's The Matter With \\"Nothing But Matter\\"?<br />6. THE RELATIVIST: Is It Really Wrong To Think There's A Real Right And Wrong?<br />7. THE ATHEIST: Can There Be A Moral Law Without A Moral Lawgiver?<br />8. THE PANTHIEST AND THE DEIST: Is God Everywhere Or Nowhere?<br />9. THE JEW: Could His-Story Be A Non-Prophet Organization?<br />10. THE MESSIAH: Is Jesus Lord, Liar Or Lunatic?<br />The book also has a great Epilogue.<br />Enjoy!<br />By the way, if you click on JOHN H. MORRISON's link and look at his book reviews, it's obvious he's a narrow-minded bigot who can't see past his own naturalist presuppositions (and I accept evolution as God's handiwork).	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R1J0XEPSAV2IRA	1591021200	975848106	The Impossibility of God	Books	3	23	46	N	N	Disappointing	As a Christian theist with an eye toward epistemic responsibility, I try to read the most popular books against Christianity or theism generally.  I find that they are often helpful in clarifying my own concepts.  The strategy of the book is a good one.  Any concept which entails a contradiction is necessarily not instantiated, i.e. a square circle.  One major problem with the strategy is that there are no rival definitions of ?square? or ?circle?.  ?God?, on the other hand, has several competing definitions.  Some of these essays present evidence against certain conceptions of God.  The problem is that they?re not much different from arguments theists of one variety level at theists of another to support their own conceptions.  Is God timeless, immutable, does He know future events with certainty, if not timeless then what relation does He bear to time, if God knows the future, *how* does He do so, does God think sequentially or does He have one big fat idea of all things?  Lots of questions theologians discuss every day.  They offer different answers.  Each combination of ?yes,? ?no,? ?*this* way,? ?*that* way,? etc. results in a different conception of God.  The only way for the strategy to work, then, is to show that every single definition entails a contradiction.  As might be expected, that task is too ambitious to have much hope of succeeding.  Still, parts of this book are helpful to the theologian in considering the nature of God.  Dennis Littrell comes close to making this point in his bizarre review before he lapses into an embarrassing irrationality aptly lampooned by Psychomakia.  The fact that the editor and contributors appear to think they have succeeded so well in such a Herculean task bespeaks hubris, which, I fear, explains why they are writing such essays in the first place (how about that Midwest Review, what a load).  The biggest disappointment, though, as one reviewer already pointed out, was that there?s nothing new here.  When I saw the publication date as 2003 I was excited that there was something new to read on the subject.  Most of the essays, sadly, are either reprint or rehash.  My advice for the atheist as well as for fellow theists interested in epistemic responsibility is to turn from solely a priori arguments to more empirical ones, principally the two anthologies by Dan Howard-Snyder on the evidential problem of evil (the book currently under review continues to be hung up on the logical problem of evil which even most forward-thinking atheists agree has been put to bed) and the problem of divine hiddenness.  There is much to learn in both those books, which provide arguments pro and con side by side.	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R10J1BO4DNTHIF	0898704529	664113120	Christianity for Modern Pagans: PASCAL's Pensees Edited, Outlined, and Explained	Books	5	25	28	N	N	No Better Place to Start	On the one hand, the text of the Pensees can be hard for beginners, even smart ones.  On the other hand, textbooks where people tell you what other people thought suck.  So Kreeft gives you the main dish, the text of the Pensees itself (nicely categorized topically, rather than the normal rather random fashion), but with his lucid notes interspersed along with helpful illustrations.  Pascal is utterly fascinating, you've never read anything like it.  It's so mind-blowing at times, it's nice to be accompanied by Kreeft.	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R1BZ1JV1QX6XHU	0761814671	352970379	Norms and Nobility: A Treatise on Education	Books	5	41	42	N	N	So Glad to See This Back in Print	Having taught in two classical high schools (ACCS charter members), two homeschool consoria, a Big 12 university, and homeschooling my own kids I can say that the approach described by Hicks is the best.  Now I'm a dedicated Adlerian (Mortimer, not Alfred) and I loves me my Great Books--so does Hicks, and he lays out his syllabus in great detail in this book.  But he goes further in addressing the education of the *character* of students and--which is helpful for use in a traditional school setting--he focuses on the necessity of the right kind of *teachers*.  The curriculum is actually less important than the teacher.  Give a dunce of a teacher the best curriculum in the world and they'll make it boring.  Give a great teacher the worst textbook in the world and they'll teach you all kinds of things.  Get the curriculum in place, but for the love of God get some teachers that know what to do with it and don't churn out kids who can ace a classics exam, but aren't humble and courageous.  Don't settle for anything less than the best of both worlds.  If you dig that, you'll dig this book!	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R20QTGU4ZHELFH	0877843899	750324087	Between Heaven and Hell: A Dialog Somewhere Beyond Death with John F. Kennedy, C. S. Lewis & Aldous Huxley	Books	5	10	10	N	N	AUT DEUS AUT HOMO MALUS	This is a very clever book.  C.S. Lewis, Aldous Huxley (representing New Age thinking), and JFK (representing the basic modern humanist) meet up somewhere \\"between Heaven and Hell.\\"  Why these three?  They all died on the same day.  Huxley *was* pretty new age-y and JFK *was* basically a humanist, but these tendencies are exaggerated for effect here.  Still, what they say is totally believable and not much different than what I hear on a daily basis.  Of course, as might be expected, specialists and fans of both will complain, but oh well.  This book is short and light and the pure dialog format makes for quick and easy reading.  I read this book for the first time in High School and even now as a graduate student in Philosophy at a Big 12 school I am still using the same basic arguments only infused with years of study, experience, and meditation.  I can't think of a better introduction to the art of Apologetics.  The central argument is the Lord, Liar, Lunatic one from Lewis's _Mere Christianity_.  However, they also discuss the nature of true religion, the historical reliability of the NT, the nature of hope and morality.  Just over 100 pages, you can read this in one setting and will want to read it over and over again.	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R96JPQ0M2R2Z3	0830823387	712012254	Socrates Meets Jesus: History's Greatest Questioner Confronts the Claims of Christ	Books	5	11	18	N	N	What if Socrates Went to Harvard?	He may well acknowledge the claims of Christ, after all, Socrates was quite logical and at least he would enjoy exposing the one really silly idea about Christ: that he was a Great Moral Teacher, but not divine.  Maybe he was crazy, that's at least a reasonable hypothesis about a man that claims to be YHWH: \\"Before Abraham was, I AM.\\"  But it's hard to read the NT and think that he was crazy.  So suppose Socrates *did* confront the claims of Christ and came to the logical conclusion.  What would he do at Harvard Divinity School?  Answer: Expose the mish-mash of pish-posh that passes for religious studies in the Ivy League.  Read this book and be a fly on the wall at a not-so-distant possible world!	2004-07-20
US	49185610	RF7S4C8OOWVPM	089870300X	220465705	A Summa of the Summa	Books	5	24	28	N	N	No Better Place to Start	On the one hand, the text of the Summa can be hard for beginners, even smart ones.  On the other hand, textbooks where people tell you what other people thought suck.  So Kreeft gives you the main dish, the text of the Summa itself (trimmed of some extraneous material not relevant to beginners (stop complaining specialists and fanatics!)), but with his lucid notes at the bottom of the page along with helpful illustrations.  The book also sports a handy glossary.  So go ahead, don't be afraid, read Aquinas, but don't be afraid to buy this book and have Kreeft along as a guide.	2004-07-20
US	49185610	R7RH0OMOFAS94	0830818995	241020961	The Universe Next Door: A Basic Worldview Catalog	Books	5	9	28	N	N	Note to self: Avoid Huston, TX	Well, it looks like the Huston Idiot Society Newsletter put out a plea for all its narrow-minded rednecks to dis this book.  Nice strategy \\"y'all\\".  Note that almost all the other reviewers who gave the book low ratings (all but one I think) fall into two categories.  1. People that complained of bias and 2. People that are in love with Karl Barth (yuck!).  The key to understanding this is...POSTMODERNISM POSTMODERNISM POSTMODERNISM.  The first category of detractors don't appreciate it enough.  Do they really think that unbiased philosophy is possible?  (One actually said Sire should have hid his faith!)  Look, everything is written from a perspective, from a point of view, so why not admit it and then go about saying what you have to say?  That's what Sire does and he should not be faulted for doing so.  The second category of detractors makes *too much* of postmodernism.  The Calvinists (shudder) these days are head-over-heals in love with postmodernism because it validates there skeptical epistemology.  Barth's famous tract _Nein!_ denied that humans can know anything substantive about God with human reason (hmm, did he use human reason to figure that out?  Ohhh, that's right, he's got God's special grace for Calvinists only, I forgot (I wonder if Aristotle was a Calvinist then, because in book lambda of the Metaphysics he says God is one and infinite but triune, oh well)).  It also allows them to watch movies and call it homework.  The Universe Next Door is a great book, don't be fooled by nay-saying rednecks or Calvinists (hmm, which is worse?).	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R335ZDYWFRL4YQ	0310224764	613882282	Five Views on Apologetics	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Must Read for Those Interested in Aplogetics	Too often, content is studied to the neglect of form: reading this book will cure that problem.  It's kind of annoying the way they fall all over themselves to agree with one another and downplay the differences given that this book is in the \\"counterpoints\\" series, but some good-old Christian charity is actually refreshing.<br />The book features a good introduction and a brief but helpful glossary of terms.  Craig's opening piece has a great excursus on Plantinga and natural theology that is worth half the price of the book in itself.  The book is 400 pages and filled with excellent references and fairly detailed subject and person indices.  Because of the detail of the entries, this book could actually serve as an introduction to apologetics, with the reader learning the basic apologetics for the existence of God, the Resurrection of Jesus, and the truth of the Christian worldview generally.  If you're not even sure what apologetics is, this would be a great book to begin with, especially because you'd get five different (though surprisingly similar) views.  On the other hand, I'm a Philosophy nstructor and apologist who knows most of these guys and I still found the book very beneficial to read.  In short, no one can fail to benefit from reading this book.	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R9SB4RY9LCHXH	0830822739	95411971	Habits of the Mind: Intellectual Life as a Christian Calling	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Please, Please, PLEASE Read This Book!!!	If I could give this book 10 out of 5 stars I'd do it!  I'm going to keep this short, because I could easily overdo it on this book.  Suffice it to say that if I could force everyone in Christendom to read just one book in there whole lives it would be this book.  If I had Bill Gates' money I would by millions of copies of this book and send one to every pastor, Priest, and parishioner in the English-speaking world.  Then I'd have it translated into every known tongue and have them sent overseas.  I simply don't recommend books with any greater enthusiasm.  I only had one person every not like this book and he was a cocky grad student who went into it thinking he was reading analytic philosophy - duh!  The book is called Habit's of the *Mind* but it aims at the *heart*.  People usually don't form good *mental* habits until they get a *passion* for the Truth.  Sire also draws on current research in virtue epistemology (don't worry about the terms) to show that or *character* can help or hinder us in the search for Truth as much as our IQ's.  The book is chock-a-block full of great quotations.  It is written for the unsophisticated but can be appreciated by anyone.  I'm a philosophy instructor at a large research university and I love this book for its inspirational character.  I just can't say enough good things about this book.  Read it and start thinking rightly today!	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R3VE88W5IWJUNB	0830832149	398435159	Finding God in the Questions: A Personal Journey	Books	4	54	61	N	N	A Welcome Surprise	I'm going to be honest: I got this book by mistake.  I'm in the IVP book club and-as is inevitable-one denial form got lost under a stack of papers and this book showed up on my doorstep like an unwanted orphan.  I was like, \\"Geez, I gotta pay almost twenty bucks for this?!\\"  But as soon as I opened the book and looked at the table of contents, I knew the book was more than I thought.<br />SECTION ONE: DOES GOD EXIST?<BR>1. Why do the questions keep coming?<BR>2. Is The Universe And Accident?<BR>3. How Did We Get Here?<BR>4. Who Are We?<br />SECTION TWO: WHAT IS GOD LIKE?<BR>5. Why Bother With Religion An The Bible?<BR>6. What Did Jesus Teach?<BR>7. Who Was Jesus?<br />SECTION THREE: WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE?<BR>8. How Should Faith Shape Our Lives?<BR>9. Is God In Control?<BR>10. Can We Bet On The Heart Of God?<br />As you can see, it is a standard two-stage apologetic (see _Five Views on Apologetics, which I also reviewed): theism then Christ.  The former drawing on work in the Intelligent Design movement the latter drawing principally on the excellent work of N.T. Wright-not to different from what you might see in a William Lane Craig book, just pared down.  <br />My next surprise also came before I even started reading the book.  From the back inside flap I learned that Johnson actually teaches at Harvard University.  I mean, I knew he must have gone to med school at some point, but I thought he had left academia behind.  To me, he was just some lightweight TV commentator.  So it was with a slightly more open mind that I began to read the book.  What I found was a very forthright (sometimes strainingly so) recounting of his own questioning process.  [Note that all the section headings and chapter titles are interrogatives.]  You can tell he's doing something he feels is important even though it's difficult.  High-profile people catch a lot of flack for their faith (witness Mel Gibson) and though he hasn't exactly hidden it, this is the first time he's reallyspoken up about it and you can feel it.  At one point he's like \\"Yes, I actually believe in the resurrection of Jesus\\" as if he's forcing himself not to beat around the bush.  I respect that.<br />I only have one serious worry about his view and than concerns the all-important issue of the divinity of Christ.  It's the only place he's somewhat cagey.  He endorses a very carefully worded answer to the question \\"Is Jesus God\\" that avoids commitment to the hypostatic union (though it certainly doesn't deny it, the quote is from N.T. Wright and appears on p. 145).  My real beef is with his treatment of the Nicene Creed and the Catholic Church.  He complains at several points of the Creeds \\"intellectualization\\" and even compares it to a \\"biology lesson.\\"  He refers to the Catholic Church as an \\"imperial church.\\"  Even if you are a Protestant, you ought to be concerned at he balking at the Creed.  Even if he does not formally deny the hypostatic union, he misses Dorothy Sayers' point in _Creed or Chaos_ that \\"the dogma is the drama\\".  He ought to read Gerard O'Collins' _Christology_ a simple, readable text which puts Christology in context.  I hope that Johnson is not hiding heresey behind the term \\"intellectualism\\" and his anti-Catholicism, that would be a shame because this book is so surprisingly good otherwise.  It's the only point where I feel like he was holding back.  I'm pretty theologically scrupulous, so hopefully it's simply lack of scrupulosity on his part.  I would love to discuss with him the way the Creeds emerged out of the Church Fathers' love for Jesus and the Truth, not out of \\"intellectualization of the Gospel,\\" it's a common and sad misunderstanding that can be easily dispelled.<br />Finally, the book is chock-a-block full of challenges to get out there and risk something on your faith, which I really appreciate.  It should accompany any apologetic and I commend him for it.	2004-07-16
US	49185610	RA8RUFIB4KS9Q	0830813977	588788972	Why Should Anyone Believe Anything at All?	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Such an Important Book for Today - Sadly Under-Read	Soooooo many people believe things for the wrong reasons-including Christians.  This book is an attempt to correct that sad state of affairs and the title question embodies the heart of much of Postmodernism.  I suspect that the reader who gave the book only three stars because of the second part of the book on Why Believe Christianity came to the book with Modernist/Evidentialist presuppositions and was disappointed because there were no deductive arguments for the existence of God, no design arguments, nothing of the sort.  It focuses instead on the Person of Christ (Imagine that!  What a novel idea in Christian apologetics).  If you like Kreeft-style apologetics more than Craig-style apologetics, you'll appreciate this section more than the three-star reviewer.  The fundamental issue in Christianity is Who was Jesus?  Sire addresses that question well.  Still, even if this book was limited to the first half, directly addressed by the title, it would be well-worth the price.  Get this book, read it, and put it into practice (along with his book _Habit's of the Mind_).  Then recommend it like crazy to your friends.  This book is not being read enough and is in danger of going out of print.  That would be such a shame because this book addresses one of the fundamental issues facing Postmodern Culture.  This book could be more important than you think.  People who believe things for the wrong reasons typically don't have much conviction and aren't good at persuading others.  This book will help you filter your beliefs and achieve greater intellectual integrity.	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R14708XPJZFMZZ	0801038189	329816831	Introduction to Philosophy: A Christian Perspective	Books	4	11	16	N	N	One of My Least Favorite Giesler Books but Still Helpful	You get some basic epistemology (theory of knowledge), metaphysics (nature of being), ethics, and philosophy of religion, but it is pretty dated and not related to very much you'd see in a university intro class.  Still, it is good stuff to get you thinking.  Part of it is that I just don't like intro to philosophy books period.  Read philosophers themselves, not books about them.  For intro to philosophy I'd recommend Lois Pojman's books or the Kreef, Purtill, and McDonald Anthology if you can find it, I think it's the best.  Also, there's a great little book called _A Preface to Philosophy_ which I require for every philosophy class I teach.  Don't get me wrong, this book isn't bad, just not so great.  It does have a nice first chapter on philosophy itself.  Of the other chapters the one on religion is OK, but you'd be better of getting some of his other books instead.  The one on epistemology is the least good, since actual advances have been made in that area in recent decades.  The chapter on metaphysics is by far the best and very fun to read.	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R2HZGADTW9J2V4	014050169X	309114645	Blueberries for Sal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Beauty of Simplicity	Both the story and blue-ink illustrations are simple but charming.  There's nothing mythopoetic here, but there is something magical about just being out in the wide-open country picking berries (we're going to pick wild blackberries today!).  An excellent short bedtime story of the \\"light reading\\" variety.	2004-07-16
US	49185610	R2AWT297CYDUJ6	0027781348	252514850	Storm's Coming	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hide and Shelter Everyone	Hide and Shelter Everyone!  That's what Fox tells the other woodland creatures as the sky darkens.  In this cute little book we learn the homes of various animals are called-badgers live in a \\"sett,\\" who knew?  Each animal passes the news on to the next as the storm grows near.  When it's all over they gather together to make sure everyone is alright.  Kids learn the signs of an oncoming storm, but also learn that it's nothing to worry about and that it passes soon.  My family loves storms and we love this book.  It is beautifully illustrated as well.	2004-07-14
US	49185610	RTX5YZ0ZYKF04	1592441262	161999944	Worlds Apart: A Handbook on World Views; Second Edition	Books	5	16	16	N	N	My Favorite Popular Geisler	The basic structure and content of this book is taken from the middle section of his legendary textbook _Christian Apologetics_.  However, it is written in a more accessible way and has handy charts and illustrations to help the reader.  Amazon has done well in offering it along side Sire's _Universe Next Door_.  If you liked that you'll also like this.  Norm points out strengths and weaknesses of each view before moving on to the next.  Logic guides the journey.  First, there is either something supernatural or there isn't.  The fist option is atheism, which is investigated first.  If there is something supernatural, then it is either finite or infinite.  If the supernatural is infinite, then it is either identical with the world (pantheism) or it isn't.  If there is an infinite transcendent supernatural being, then it either interacts with humans (theism) or it does not (deism).  His discussion of panentheism foreshadows his current work on what he has called \\"neotheism\\" which includes the movement which calls itself \\"open theism\\".  If you only buy one Giesler book, this should be it.	2004-07-14
US	49185610	R1JE7SIFB85UD0	0801011426	908372456	When Critics Ask: A Popular Handbook on Bible Difficulties	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Excellent Beginning Reference Work	I've used this book to teach a seeker's bible study.  Most people seem to really appreciate the honesty.  The cumulative effect of looking up entries is to realize how bible difficulties arise.  This is as valuable as any particular entry.  Some difficulties are treated more in-depth than others.  Some can be thoroughly dealt with in a short entry, others solutions can only be gestured at.  This book is not meant to be the end-all-be-all of bible difficulties but it is a comprehensive overview of Bible difficulties.  At first, the size of the book might be discouraging: this is a big book.  However, it becomes encouraging when you see how-time and time again-there are simple solutions or natural explanations for the Bible difficulties, it's just that it takes longer to explain a solution than it does to raise a problem.  This should go next to his _Encyclopedia of Aplogetics_, _General Introduction to the Bible_, and _When Skeptics Ask_ on your reference shelf.	2004-07-14
US	49185610	R2RFK4X0G0ENLG	0801038367	280379670	Come, Let Us Reason: An Introduction to Logical Thinking	Books	5	12	14	N	N	One of Only Two	Truly philosophically minded introductions to Aristotelian logic (the other is Peter Kreeft's _Socratic Logic_).  I now do work in advanced mathematical logic, but the good old syllogism is still the most useful logical tool on a daily basis.  My favorite two parts of this book are the early parts on Logic and God.  It should be required reading for modern Christians.  Also, the chapter on Uncovering Logic in Literature is very very good.  I have taught from this text in Classical High Schools and have found it ideally suited for that purpose.  It also works very well for a self-taught course.  There are answers to exercises in the back.  I should add that the exercises are largely drawn from philosophy and theology which makes them much more interesting than conventional logic texts.	2004-07-14
US	49185610	R1PG75GYHH1WZE	0801011418	334677132	When Skeptics Ask: A Handbook on Christian Evidences	Books	5	13	21	N	N	Part of the Essential Geisler Reference Desk	In some ways, this book was the forerunner to his _Encyclopedia of Apologetics_.  It is like a compendium of Giesler.  It has tidbits from most of his best-selling books.  One of the neatest things is that the book is organized into questions on different topics, well over three dozen questions in all.  There are Questions on God, Other Gods (a prcis of _Worlds Apart here), Evil, Miracles, Christ, the Bible, Archeology, Evolution, Afterlife, Truth, and Morals.  For a handy reference book, it is surprisingly thorough (though always meant to be an introduction, not an end-in-itself).  This is also where the \\"12 points\\" tape available got its start (see NormGeisler.com) as the Appendix: Reasoning to Christianity from Ground Zero.  Though only an outline, they demonstrate Norm's pervasive ability to think in fundamental philosophical terms.  The book also sports a nice Glossary, Topical Index, Person Index, and Scripture Index.  It's a very user friendly book and, along with Kreeft's _Encyclopedia of Apologetics_ one of two best Apologetics reference works beyond a dictionary (which is more what Norm's Encyclopedia is).	2004-07-14
US	49185610	R2IUNVGV62ZKER	0801038219	132778522	Philosophy of Religion	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Classic Geisler	This book *definitely* needs to come back in print in a 3rd Edition.  If you are interested in PR, this is an invaluable reference tool.  There is a long section on the existence of God which has outlines, sometimes quite detailed, of all the major arguments for the existence of God.  This is extremely helpful for grasping their logical structure and helping you remember them.  I honestly thing, though, that my favorite part is the first part on religious experience.  This is based in part on Norm's Doctoral Dissertation at Loyola University of Chicago.  It is even more filled with references than most of Norm's well-documented work.  One interesting thing, is that it is a sort of detailed and extended Argument from Desire (a la Lewis and Kreeft).  It would be worth the price just for this section.  The section on religious language is also based in part of some of Norm's graduate work.  He wrote his Master' s Thesis on religious language at Wheaton.  This is one of the best primers on the Thomistic doctrine of analogy I've ever seen.  It finishes with a section on the problem of evil.  Each section is very strong and the combination in a single volume make it a must-have.  Find a used copy today.	2004-07-14
US	49185610	R1J4ZZ2FW4TUHO	0698113993	57572466	Berlioz the Bear	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bravo, Berlioz!	This is a cute little story.  Berlioz is late for a concert and having trouble with his double bass to boot (a strange and unwanted buzzing noise accompanies his playing).  The bandwagon gets stuck in a pot hole and the draft donkey just won't budge.  A series of animals in increasing order of size and strength--from a rooster to an ox--think they are the solution, but all fail to move the donkey.  In a surprising twist we discover the source of Berlioz' bass's buzzing and the donkey suddenly finds motivation.  As a result, they make it on time and we learn that the ability to effect change does not always depend on size and strength.  Very nicely illustrated.  Each lavish page is framed with marginal drawings which show you the country folk gathering at the village in preparation for Berlioz' concert.  This is a nice touch and heightens the drama.  There's something almost Aesopian about this delightful book.  Highly recommended; a great bed-time story.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R1LIOTDDLHZ474	0521007585	376503476	Computability and Logic	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Not much to add, but	it should be noted that this book is not intended for the auto-didact.  Like other good logic texts-Jeffrey's Formal Logic or Pollock's Technical Method's (out of print, but available in PDF on his website)-there is very little commentary in the brief chapters, so it is useful if you are already very familiar with the material or if you have a very worthy guide.  An advantage of the short chapters is that material is broken down in finer increments; a disadvantage is that material is presented with spare guidance at times.  I was also disappointed by the sparsity of examples.  Like many logic and math students, I learn better from examining a few examples than I do from either lectures or text: give me three examples of something and I'll usually have it down.  I would have liked to see more examples in this text.  The exercises are ample and creative, which I appreciate, but often go so far beyond the text it's mind boggling.  They often require extensive extrapolations from the text sometimes even proving theorems or lemmas not in the text just for use in the exercise.  I should say that I'm a philosopher and not a mathematician (I suspect the other reviewers are primarily mathematicians), so my estimation of the difficulty will differ.  I aced Symbolic Logic, Modal Logic, Deviant Logic, and Advanced Symbolic Logic and still had difficulty with some of this material, even though I had a prior acquaintance with Godel's proof.  Note that the first reviewer, who thought it was a breeze, described himself this way \\"As a topologist who recently got interested in computational topology...\\"  Good for him, but if you are not a professional mathematician this book will probably be quite challenging at times, even if you are otherwise good at mathematical logic.  Note also that the second five-star review refers to the older edition-it has not necessarily improved with age.  I firmly agree with the reviewer from Brooklyn that the proofs could have had more forecasting and with the reviewer from  Raleigh that a solution set, say to the odds, would have been very useful, especially for the auto-didact, from whose perspective I am writing.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R3KTMU2FJ0W2MG	0316957208	197944113	Child of Faerie, Child of Earth	Books	5	15	17	N	N	As Good as It Gets	This is one of my all-time favorites.  As the title suggests, it is a true faerie tale.  In this case a human-child and faerie-child chance to meet and each tries to persuade the other to cross the divide, each making an experimental sojourn.  Very well illustrated by one of our favorite illustrators--Jane Dyer--and written in a very nice lyric verse.  Here's where the girl declines the offer of the Prince.<br />She looked around the faerie hall<BR>Beneath the hollow hill.<BR>And all the glamour round her spun<BR>To bend her to his will.<BR>    But with a sigh, she shook her head.<BR>    \\"That's not by bread<BR>    And drink,\\" she said.<BR>    \\"I cannot on your food be fed<BR>And still my needs fulfill.\\"<br />There are 28 pages, 14 sets of facing pages with one of these lyrics on the left with a small picture above.  Opposite is a full-page illustration, many of which are among the very best quality in Children's Literature I've seen.  <br />Sadly, the hardback is no longer in print, but good used copies are usually available.  There's no new-age nonsense in this book, just good old-fashioned mythopoetics.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R1B05XQ7CDBT22	0316590789	176740433	Fairy Wings	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Fairy Tail Worthy of the Ages	This is a truly great children's book.  It is my favorite fairy story of all time, seriously.  There is adventure and compassion, deceit and intrigue, princes and trolls--it's all there.  Fia is a wingless fairy and stands in for all who feel incomplete.  In a rare occurance in modern books, her father is her greatest advocate.  Her best friends (other fairies shun her, including her seven beautiful sisters)--a frog a rat and a crow--are also considered outcasts.  By chance or fate she meets the Fairy Prince without realizing his true identity and he invites her to the Great May Dance.  Amidst the ensuing Cinderella story, Fia exhibits great fortitude in saving all the fairies from a troll who--in a great swash of irony--wants the fairies only for their pretty wings.  She is aided in this endeavor by her outcast friends and they all gain the respect of the fairies through this act at once compassionate and courageous.  The large and lavish watercolor illustrations are equal to the text in this first husband-and-wife collaboration.  I cannot recommend a book more enthusiastically for it's genre.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	RO6FL7ZC3Q80W	0060256656	945451465	The Giving Tree	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Power of Simplicity, Taps into the Deeply Human	There's not really a \\"plot\\" in this story in any traditional sense.  It is a series of vignettes in the relationship between a boy and a tree.  The symbolism is pretty straightforward, the tree representing parental nurturing, but there is nothing trite about it.  This illustrations are simple black-and-white line drawings.  Somehow this simple book really packs a punch.  All I can really say is that I have never once, ever, in dozens of readings, whether alone or to the kids, made it through this book without crying.  It's simply...touching.<br />Further Comments: Silverstein was one weird, scary-looking dude.  If you're interested in very idiosyncratic people, Google him and you'll be surprised.  He has several other children's books with which I'm only vaguely familiar (I remember Where the Sidewalk Ends being on the shelf at my grade school, but I'm not sure if I ever read it.  I think it's a collection of poems).  I'd love to see some of those reviewed.  <br />(...)	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R6KIBZXVJEZ0Q	0316367958	296260736	Saint George and the Dragon	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Best Introduction to the Genre	Adapted from Spenser's Faerie Queene, this is a highly literate children's tale.  We meet the Red Cross Knight as he is heading into his first adventure.  Princess Una has sought him as champion for her parents in fighting the usual terrorizing dragon.  The plot is the usual one: boy meets girl, girl tells boy how royal parents are being terrorized by a dragon.  Boy slays dragon, marries princess.  Though this story does not stray from the formula, it is realized in a very fine fashion and richly illustrated.  Each of some dozen pairs of facing pages has fantastic illustrations on one side with a few paragraphs of text on the other.  The illustrations are among the best I've seen, they rank together with Child of Faerie Child of Earth and Fairy Wings.  Each illustrated page is nicely framed and usually filled with thematic marginal drawings, which is a very nice touch.<br />I think this is probably the most literate children's book I've read.  The first line of most pages always includes some brief alliteration, beginning with the opening lines.<br />>In the days when monsters and giants and fairy folk lifvind in England, a noble knight was riding across a plain. <br />>The dreadful dragon was the cause of her sorrow. <br />>After many days the path became thorny and led up to a steep hillside, where a good old hermit lived in a little house by himself.  <br />>It is time for me to tell you that you were not born of fairy folk, but of English earth. <br />>Then they heard a hideous roaring that filled the air with terror and seemed to shake the ground. <br />>The knight brandished his bright blade, and it seemed sharper than ever, his hands even stronger. <br />There is just enough to create the effect without going overboard.  Sometimes, at key points, the alliteration is stepped up to alert the reader to pay attention.<br />>In his tail's end, two sharp stings were fixed.  But sharper still were his cruel claws.  Whatever he touched or drew within those claws wasin deadly danger.  His head was more hideous than tongue can tell, for his deep jaws gaped wide, showing three rows of iron teeth read to devour his prey. <br />There are also instances of anaphora<br />>Once more the Red Cross Knight mounted and attacked the dragon.  Once more in vain. <br />internal rhyme<br />>Yet the beast had never before felt such a mighty stroke from the hand of any man, and he was furious for revenge.  <br />and Homeric similes.<br />>Like a sailor long at sea, under stormy winds and fierce sun, who begins to whistle merrily when he sees land, so Una was thankful. <br />These are all tropes I would have pointed out when I was teaching Medieval and Renaissance Lit. and are spread thinly enough not to be over done.  They are in fact very appropriate to the material, being standard Anglo-Saxon techniques.  The surrounding prose is also extremely well written.  There were only three alliterations which I felt were overdone, but-hey-that's also true for equivalent portions of Beowulf!<br />I can't think of a better introduction to the dragonslayer genre.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R2EFR5NPT0Y30C	0152531645	905939209	Melisande	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Masterpiece from a Master	A century-old thoughtful twist on the fairy tale genre by a classic Children's writer (would love to see reviews of some of her other works).  Melisande is a princess subject to the usual misfortune: a wicked fairy not invited to the christening casts an evil spell on her--\\"The Princess shall be bald.\\"  Not to worry the King has a wish he was given by his fairy godmother locked in his safe, the Princess may use it however she wishes when she comes of age.  At that point, the Queen says, <br />\\"Dearest, for my sake, wish what I tell you to.\\"  \\"Why, of course I will,\\" said Melisande.  The Queen whispered in her ear, and Melisande nodded.  Then she said, \\"I wish I had golden hair a yard long, and that it would grow an inch every day, and grow twice as fast every time it was cut...\\"<BR>  \\"Stop!\\" cried the King...\\"You've done about enough.\\"  For he had a mathematical mind and could do the sums about the grains of wheat on the chessboard...<br />You can imagine what happens next.  According to the formula, they promise the Princess's hand in marriage to the Prince who can solve this problem.  One unfortunate attempt leaves her growing into a giant a la Alice in Wonderland.  The final solution is very clever and I won't spoil it for you.  There is a great deal of humor throughout and it is illustrated very well, though I'm not an uberfan of Lynch's caricatures.	2004-07-12
US	49185610	R26GPFNBCK09S6	0689318553	224034439	T-backs, T-shirts, Coat, and Suit	Books	1	1	14	N	N	Pure PsychoBabble	If you go in for hipster pop-psyche of the trendy and trite, then by all means you'll love this exercise in stereotypes.  Or if you wish your five year old could only get in more prime-time TV, you may also like it.  If not, however, feel free to skip this pseudo-intellectual claptrap.	2004-07-11
US	49185610	R1CM8E21BI6K4G	0618159649	845003348	Sparks Fly Upward	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A Stereotype at Any Latitude Smells the Same	Christians are all anti-Semitic, boys are all violent, girls are all kind, [insert monodimensional thought here], blah blah blah.  Two stars instead of one because it is set in Canada rather than the Midwest which is about the only deviation from the stereotypical formula.	2004-07-11
US	49185610	R1B2GF07GH6JO0	1890318892	714825720	Socratic Logic: A Logic Text Using Socratic Method, Platonic Questions, and Aristotelian Principles	Books	5	41	44	N	N	From the Editor	Hi folks, thanks for the great reviews and suggestions.  As with any 1st edition textbook, there are still many glitches I'm sure.  It didn't take me long to find a few post-production typos.  In an effort to better serve you, I'll be posting corrections at [...]<br />We hope that you will benefit from this modern exposition of ancient wisdom!	2004-01-15
