US	49181270	R28563WQGUEKH0	0761544739	138144954	Halo 2: The Official Game Guide	Books	4	13	14	N	N	It has its uses	The Halo 2 campaign mode is simple enough that most players won't need a guide to negotiate it. The campaign is pretty straightforward in design; unlike some games (such as GTA), detailed level maps aren't really needed. However, the guide offers many extras that make it a worthwhile purchase. <br /> <br />For one, the detailed maps of the campaign mode offer weapon and vehicle locations and enemy weaknesses, useful when one's plasma rifle or SMG is running low on ammo and a pair of Hunters are closing fast. The detailed information on weapons allows newbies to acquaint themselves with Halo 2's large array of available armament and vehicles. Veterans of the original game will quickly become familiar with the new weapons of Halo 2. (Of course, there's something to be said for learning as you go). The guide also offers detailed information on the various creatures of the Covenant, adding to the ongoing story of Halo. A note of caution, however: If you don't want to spoil the ending, don't read the last chapter of the campaign mode. (I made that mistake...it was still cool, though).  <br /> <br />The best reason to get the guide, however, is for the multiplayer maps, which include weapon and vehicle locations, strategic points for ambushes and sniping, detailed maps, and tips on setting up games and clans. Charging blindly into Halo 2's XBox Live levels can be suicidal; most of my friends who play on Live credit the strategy guide for giving them a heads-up on where to find what they need. So the guide does have its uses beyond the usual campaign walkthrough. Especially recommended to those who are new to the Halo universe.  <br /> <br />I hope this review was helpful <br />--Christian Wheeler, gamer and games retailer.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-15
US	49181270	R3IF8CJ3CZCNQ2	0345459210	420580416	The Flood (Halo #2)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Adds much to the ongoing story of Halo	A warning to those who have already played the game: This novel is essentially an adaptation of the plot and situations presented in the game. If you've played it, then you know how the story progresses and how it will end. What makes this worth reading (and worth 4 of 5 stars) is the additional material Dietz integrates into the basic plot.  <br /> <br />We learn a great deal more about the origins of Master Chief and the SPARTAN program that developed him into a super-soldier. In the Halo game, Master Chief (aka John-117) says very little, and his thoughts and motivations are hard to discern. That's long been one of my (very few) criticisms of Halo: Despite all the development that went into visual design, gameplay, plot, and peripheral characters (343 Guilty Spark is one of the most fascinating characters in recent video game history), the main character comes across as unknowable and aloof. Here, Dietz alleviates that by allowing us glimpses into the mind of Master Chief, learning more about his feelings, thoughts, and motivations. We also see how others react to him: Most Marines are awestruck by him (he IS 8 feet tall, after all), but some--even in the UNSC leadership--see him as a freak, as a failed experiment that should have been eliminated long ago. His relationship/symbiosis with Cortana is also fleshed out, and she becomes a more in-depth character as well (who may be in the first stages of AI Rampancy; Dietz drops as many hints about that as the games and other novels do). He also provides a few details about the Forerunners, who built Halo and are worshiped as near-deities by the Covenant. Although he doesn't tell us much (I'm sure Bungie is saving many major revelations for Halo 3), he does drop a few interesting details about them (I won't spoil it for potential readers).  <br /> <br />Another strong aspect of the novel is how Dietz explores the Covenant side of the conflict through the eyes of a lowly Grunt, Yayap. We see more of their hierarchy (with hints of what we would learn in Halo 2 about the Covenant's ruling order) and learn more about the individual races, such as the Grunts, Elites, Hunter, and Jackals. The lead Covenant Elite featured in the novel, Orna'Fulsamee, may also be the same Elite who takes on the mantle of the Arbiter in Halo 2. There's also more info on the Covenant's history and their motivations in their war with humanity.  <br /> <br />The UNSC Marines, often little more than cannon fodder in the game, are also fleshed out a lot more. We learn more about Foe-Hammer (always heard but never seen in the game) and other Marines, plus we gain some more insight into Captain Jacob Keyes.  <br /> <br />Dietz' writing style is sparse, with just enough descriptive detail to give the reader a good sense of time and place. Weapons and combat tactics are adequately described, and the author has a good sense of action (though his occasional need to give too much information about a weapon or its effects detracts from the action and slows the story's momentum, though only temporarily).  <br /> <br />Overall, that's what makes this novel worth reading, even for those already familiar with the game: The complex and detailed Halo universe is given even more depth, making the overall story as rich as most sci-fi novels. Eric Nylund's two Halo novels, \\"The Fall of Reach\\" and \\"First Strike\\" are also recommended, and add much more to the growing story of Halo. And if you've played Halo and are going to play Halo 2, you may want to read \\"First Strike\\" first. It details what happens between the two games and prepares you for the complex storyline of Halo 2. <br /> <br />I hope this review was helpful <br /> <br />--Christian Wheeler	2004-12-09
US	49181270	R35S8LROH53TM5	0618391045	296270242	Gollum: A Behind the Scenes Guide of the Making of Gollum (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A precioussss behind the scenes look at the making of Gollum	Even casual film fans are now familiar with the character of Gollum and the groundbreaking special effects that turned him into one of the screen's most memorable characters. Now, we get to see Gollum from a different perspective: through the eyes of the man who brought him to life, Andy Serkis. This memoir, written by Serkis (w/help from Gary Russell) is an entertaining and eye-opening look at the production of both the character in general and the films as a whole. Andy had done mostly small roles in films and plays when he received an intriguing casting tip from his agent: Apparently, New Line was making a trilogy of films based on the \\"Lord of the Rings\\" series, and needed someone to voice the character of Gollum. Serkis, unfamiliar with the trilogy (though he had read \\"The Hobbit\\" in school) initially balked, until his partner (later, wife) Lorraine--who HAD read the books--urged him to try out. Andy agreed, and began to try different voices that might fit the character. He was stuck, having tried many different voices, until inspiration hit in the form of his cat. (His gagging, hairball-infested cat.) Serkis, who had decided to approach Gollum as a character so full of guilt and obsession (he also compares Gollum to a hardcore junkie) that he was literally choking on it, imitated his poor gagging cat in front of Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh...and the rest, as they say, is history.<br />Andy journeyed to New Zealand for what he though might be a bit of voice work. Instead, the role of Gollum turned into one of the most challenging undertaken to date: Serkis not only supplied the voice of Gollum, but also his movements as well (thanks to innovative motion-capture technology). Serkis would end up filming scenes multiple times: once in a blue suit, accompanied by Elijah Wood and Sean Astin, then again without them, and often again in a suit studded with dots (reference points for computer animators). Though tedious, this process allowed the animators to bring Gollum to living, breathing life, a genuine example of movie magic. (How detailed is the character of Gollum? A deaf man who saw \\"The Two Towers\\" was able to read his lips.) Andy studied the character, often referencing the books for little insights into the character and his psychological makeup in order to bring greater depth to Gollum. And perhaps a little bit of Gollum worked its way into Andy...because vegetarian Serkis suddenly found himself enjoying fish again. <br />Despite the frequent hardships of filming, Andy was able to keep a sense of humor and professionalism about him, and is able to look back at many of the more difficult moments and laugh. Indeed, his sense of humor sustains the book when it bogs down or becomes repetitive; Serkis felt the need to relate the details of motion-capture technology a few too many times, as if he were telling a multi-part story and needed to bring new readers up to date. He grouses a bit about his initial lack of recognition and appreciation, especially when he had to repeat long scenes in the blue suit while the other actors could relax. (The worst one: Repeating a scene that involved splashing in frigid water...and that blue suit was NOT insulated). But he chides himself for those feelings, and finds a great deal of humor in those difficulties now. <br />Serkis, who claims little knowledge of classical literature, belies it with frequent references to and quotes from Nordic literature, the Bible (Smeagol's murder of Deagol draws comparisons to Cain and Abel), Shakespeare's \\"The Tempest\\" (comparing Gollum to Caliban), Jekyll and Hyde, Frankenstein's monster, and more. His writing style is smooth, full of humor and frequent good-natured self-deprecation, especially when relating how he foolishly ventured onto a rapids-filled river with minimal supplies, only to be rescued by four Wellington city councilors. His feelings of unappreciation were greatly assuaged when he learned that he would actually be on-screen, playing therole of young Smeagol in a flashback, as we see how Gollum came into possession of the Ring. Though he would still find himself largely unrecognized: A flight attendant saw him reading the books and innocently asked him if he knew about the films, sighing all the while because Orlando Bloom had been on the plane just a few days before. Serkis resisted a strong urge to crawl on all fours and hiss in his Gollum voice. (I don't know if I could have). <br />This little book (119 pgs) contains all one would want to know about the creation and evolution of one of modern cinema's most unique characters, and is highly recommended.	2004-05-10
US	49181270	RQXCRTSKEVP8K	0060598301	973829223	A Library of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-10 (The Bad Beginning, The Reptile Room, The Wide Window, The Miserable Mill, The Austere Academy, The Ersatz Elevator, The Vile Village, The Hostile Hospital, The Carnivorous Carnival, The Slippery Slope) [SHRINK WRAPPED]	Books	5	92	97	N	N	Excellent series, excellent value	If you or your children haven't been introduced to Lemony Snicket's (pseud. taken by Daniel Handler while researching extremist groups) wonderful &quot;Series of Unfortunate Events&quot; books, here's a great chance to get the first ten (of 13 total) at an exceptional value. The story centers on the three Baudelaire orphans: fourteen-year-old Violet, who's a talented inventer; twelve-year-old Klaus, who's a voracious reader; and baby Sunny, who can chew through almost anything and speaks in snippets of dialogue that only her siblings can understand. Each book finds them in a dreadful new situation, thanks to the evil Count Olaf, who's only goal is to get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune. Each story is cleverly plotted, with narrow escapes and tons of misery for the poor siblings. But they stick together, even when things are bad, and kids will love the way they escape bad situations using their own talents. The books follow a definite pattern, with the children barely escaping the nefarious Olaf's schemes, only to find themselves in trouble again. This pattern wears a little thin by book 4, but Snicket introduces some new characters in book 5 (the Quagmire triplets) that help change the direction of the story. After that, each book becomes more and more addictive as the plot weaves, twists and thickens, with increasing amounts of mystery and suspense. Snicket's delightfully oddball dialogue is replete with literary references, bad puns, grim humor, and social commentary. Even baby Sunny's language follows this pattern; her little bits of dialogue are often plays on words or commentary; in book 10, there's a clever knock at the President (I voted for him, and I still laughed!) Snicket also takes shots at society types through Olaf's girlfriend Esme Squalor (first seen in book 6), who's always worried about how fashionable things are (clothes, attitudes, language, and so forth). The books are well-written, with good doses of dry, dark humor (think Monty Python, Charles Addams, or Roald Dahl). The entire series is clever and original on many levels, a joy to read for young and old, and is highly recommended.	2003-11-21
US	49181270	R4Q6K8N16XEXG	0553373803	68312607	The Fifth Sacred Thing	Books	1	41	70	N	N	Let me explain myself	A couple of years ago, I wrote a very unfavorable (okay, it was nasty) review of this novel for Amazon. Since then, I've gone back and re-read it, thinking that maybe my opinion would change. Well, it hasn't. But this time, I'll take the time to explain why I didn't like it, instead of ranting. <br />What's wrong with it? Well, for one, it's not very well written, rising barely above the level of pulp novel. There's little sense of structure, a very lugubrious and convoluted plot, and the characters are only mildly interesting. Rather than creating an original villain for this story of an ecofeminist utopia, Starhawk falls back on the what has become de riguer for so many novels in the New Age genre: fundamentalist Christians. What is most ironic, however, is that while she makes a valid point--that some people have taken their religious beliefs to extraordinary--and sometimes hateful--extremes, her characters often follow the same patterns. The idea of tolerance, so often trumpeted in this novel, does not apply: sure, the fundamentalists are bigoted sexists who don't tolerate difference, but the same holds true for the main characters. There's a sense that their supposedly enlightened beliefs are the ONLY way, and that differing opinions are somehow wrong...which is like the pot calling the kettle black. There are elements of sexism in the plot, in that men are essentially second-class citizens, peripheral characters at best, and definitely underdeveloped. I have no problems with strong female characters in lead roles, but not at the outright subversion of an entire gender. One gets the impression that the men featured in the story--on both sides--are supposed to speak for men in general. If that's the case, then why are they so underdeveloped? True, this is supposed to be a fable about a woman's utopia, an ecofeminist paradise, but why repay one wrong (women for years as second-class citizens) with another (men in the same position). Is this supposed to be enlightenment? What I know of Wicca and neopaganism is that equality of the sexes is of prime importance to their adherents; what about here? My main issue with Starhawk is how she pays lip-service to equality in the novel's many polemics (she often editorializes through her characters) but does not apply it to everyone in her book. I have no problem with her personal beliefs (it's a free country, folks; she can worship roosters for all I care), but I do have a problem with how so many people sanctify this novel as a work of art. I'm glad it addresses women's spirituality (until recently, a sadly neglected subject, as my wife will tell you) but I think this poorly written novel is hardly the place for its expression.	2003-06-25
US	49181270	R22Q4VIL1NN8KY	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"The worst Harry Potter book?" Hardly.	I'm amazed at the number of people who dismiss this entry in the series as the worst one. True, it lacks the freshness of the original, the intricate plotting of the third, and the epic scope of four and five. But it's well written, moves at a brisk pace, and has some really clever elements (flying cars; an extraordinarily stuck-up new professor, who gets the comeuppance he richly deserves; a main character accidentally tranformed into something hilariously unexpected; a miserable ghost). There's lots of humor, balanced by plot structures foreshadowing the darker aspects of the forthcoming books. And, it introduces some plot elements that prove to be critical to the series as a whole.<br />For one, Rowling (through extremely shrewd use of metaphor) shows that even wizards can be elitist, racist snobs, thumbing their noses at those they see as inferior. The Malfoys look down on Hermione (who, incidentally, is the brightest student in school) because her parents are Muggles; to Draco and his father, she's less of a person because she's not a \\"pure-blood.\\" They also despise the Weasleys for their lower-class status and for Arthur Weasley's love of all things Muggle. Sound familiar? I've found that these particular plot elements are a good touchpoint when teaching children about racism and hatred. These elements prove to be critical not only in this book (what we learn about Salazar Slytherin in this book explains a lot about what kinds of people are placed in Slytherin House) but beyond; once we learn more about Voldemort's origin, we can see why his hatred of Muggles is so severe. (Even Book Five echoes back to this story; Sirius' mother holds many of the same views as the Malfoys and Voldemort, and is more than willing to express her opinions). When reading the following books, one will find that many things refer back to \\"Chamber of Secrets:\\" Here is where we first meet Dobby the House-Elf, who reappears in books four and five, and begin to see the difficulties of house-elves' subjugation (another clever metaphor by Rowling). We gain some incite into Hagrid's background, and learn why he was expelled from Hogwarts as a youth. And, Harry grows up quite a bit, as he is forced to face an extraordinary evil alone, with an innocent life at stake, in a gripping and taut battle. He learns more about an unusual talent he wishes he didn't have, a talent that's largley due to Voldemort's attempt to kill him as a baby. Plus, he finally gets an answer to a question that's nagged at hime for some time: Why did the Sorting Hat put him in Gryffindor, and not Slytherin, as it seemed wont to do? It answers some of his doubts, but seems to create others; the Harry of Book Five is asking a lot of questions for which there may not yet be answers. All of these elements add up to an entertaining, well-structured book that's as good as the others.house-elves' subjugation (another clever metaphor by Rowling). We gain some incite into Hagrid's background, and learn why he was expelled from Hogwarts as a youth. And, Harry grows up quite a bit, as he is forced to face an extraordinary evil alone, with an innocent life at stake, in a gripping and taut battle. He learns more about an unusual talent he wishes he didn't have, a talent that's largley due to Voldemort's attempt to kill him as a baby. Plus, he finally gets an answer to a question that's nagged at hime for some time: Why did the Sorting Hat put him in Gryffindor, and not Slytherin, as it seemed wont to do? It answers some of his doubts, but seems to create others; the Harry of Book Five is asking a lot of questions for which there may not yet be answers. All of these elements add up to an entertaining, well-structured book that's as good as the others.	2003-06-25
US	49181270	R3PSHKJN80OUFS	019280037X	779288773	The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Music (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An indispensible guide	A comprehensive, well-organized volume that covers composers, compositions, periods and styles, terminology (though I must agree with another reviewer--this really needs a pronunciation guide for some of the more difficult names and terms), instruments, vocalists, cultural context, and more. Major composers get more attention, with longer bios and more detailed entries, though the entries for some of the more notable people (such as George Gershwin) come up a little short in detailing their impact and significance. I purchased this book about a year ago, when I found myself becoming more interested in classical music, and it has proven to be extremely handy in identifying major pieces, performers, and composers. A must-have for music majors and libraries (both college and public) and for individual reference, and as an added bonus, is a godsend for those of us who do crossword puzzles.	2003-04-24
US	49181270	R3556QZ6QH3A4L	0691088039	520160043	From Hand to Mouth: The Origins of Language	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Quite interesting	It may seem unusual for a psychologist to publish a book on linguistics and the origins of human language, but Michael Corballis has produced an intriguing work full of speculation and theory. The author asks an essential question--why did it take modern humans (\\"modern\\" meaning the last 150,000 years or so) such a long time to develop a fully spoken language? He theorizes that we may have had the potential for spoken language for as long as a million years (hardwired into our brains) but we only began significant utilization of that ability around 50,000 years ago. What was the catalyst that pushed ancient man from a mostly manual language to a spoken one? According to the author, it was a largely cultural development spurred on by numerous factors, including (but not limited to) increased socialization among early humans. Spoken language is a far more effective medium than a manual one, and early man quickly discovered that in the highly competitive world of Ice-Age Europe, vocal socialization, with its easy exchange of ideas and new technologies, may have been the difference between survival and extinction. Another point of interest: there may have been a prehistoric &quot;Renaissance&quot; in art and early technology at this time, perhaps resulting from our newfound linguistic abilities. Also, genetic evidence from that time period suggests divergence in the human genome; could our newborn use of language have been a factor?<br />However, recent evidence may undermine (or significantly alter) the socialization/culture theory. The discovery of the FOXP2 gene, which seems to control the articulation of words and grammar, may have appeared in humans as far back as 2.5 to 3 million years ago. (Interestingly, Neanderthals may also have possessed this mutation, meaning that they, too may have been capable of speech--adding fuel to the debate over how they died out). I believe this book was published before this discovery was revealed. Yet there may still be room for Corballis' theory and similar ideas, even with this new information. Perhaps the mutation gave us the potential, but maybe it took the pressures of survival coupled with the increased social interactions of people living in close proximity to fully trigger it. Of course, we haven't completely lost our manual tendencies; think about how much hand gestures factor into conversations. <br />His narrow focus--on European humans--limits the scope of his argument, ignoring both trans-European people and those still dwelling in Africa. The culture/socialization-as-language-catalyst is not a new argument, but what makes Corballis' approach unique is his incorporation of some unusual factors, such as lateralization and handedness (i.e. left or right, and his ideas about the origin of left-handedness are quite interesting). His writing style, full of sharp, dry wit, clever analogies, and innumerable references from related fields (such as neurology and linguistics) makes his approach more engaging that similar accounts I've read, and although he sometimes covers familiar ground, he does so with energy and enthusiasm. There's as much of interest here for the anthropologist as for the linguist.	2002-10-01
US	49181270	R178UZ065SMU9R	0691096570	129519176	How the Universe Got Its Spots: Diary of a Finite Time in a Finite Space	Books	5	36	38	N	N	A fascinating and original work	What is the ultimate nature of the universe? Is it finite or infinite? Does it have an edge or a boundary, or any definable shape? Janna Levin attempts to provide answers to these questions in this extraordinary and fascinating effort. The book's unusual style--written as a set of unsent letters to her mother--adds a kind of personal touch that, when combined with the author's free-flowing prose style (which makes shrewd use of metaphor, analogies, and alliteration) makes it a very reader-friendly experience. Adding to the book's intimate nature is Levin's frequent references to her often chaotic and sometimes lonely life as a scientist, especially when referring to the way her increasing knowledge has in some ways distanced her from those she loves. <br />Her theories (which seem to have an equal number of critics and adherents) are largely based on an unusual combination of topology (her specialty) and cosmology into one elegant theory. She suggests that the universe is without an edge, staggeringly immense, but ultimately finite. But does it have a shape? Part of her theory hinges on the study of the study of the distribution of matter and the cosmic background radiation (the &quot;echo&quot; of the Big Bang) throughout the universe, a pattern that may eventually reveal the shape of the universe ( and may give us a greater sense of our place in it). Such a discovery could settle the debate over whether space-time curves back onto itself. If so, could hypothetical travelers move in a straight line through space and eventually come back to where they started? Perhaps topology holds the answer. In addition, Levin also discusses string theory, black holes, time warps, and numerous other theories past and present in her quest (and humankind's, as well) for an ultimate understanding of the universe. This is a well-written, comprehensible book, full of wonder and excitement about our efforts to understand the universe that is as friendly to the layperson as to the experienced. VERY highly recommended.<br />See also: Kip Thorne's &quot;Black Holes and Time Warps,&quot; Stephen Hawking's &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; and &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell,&quot; John Gribbin's &quot;Unveiling the Edge of Time,&quot;  and Tim Ferris' &quot;The Whole Shebang.&quot;	2002-09-10
US	49181270	RK6DXIKVOQ4K9	073730104X	405641660	Your Guide To the Sky	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great place to start	If you're new to backyard astronomy and are seeking a guide, here's the ticket. This covers all the bases, from the moon, sun, planets, and constellations to the locations of deep-sky objects, from lunar and solar observations to how to pick and set up the appropriate telescope (good information from a man who has designed award-winning telescopes). Shaffer starts at the beginning with the basic layout of the night sky and continues into greater detail without getting overly technical or confusing the neophyte. Every topic is presented in a friendly and engaging manner, with touches of dry humor, that eases the unfamiliar into the techniques of backyard astronomy without overwhelming them. Along the way he adds details about general scientific concepts as needed (such as explaining photons and spectrums) and includes sky maps, charts, graphs and other things to help guide the reader.An altogether excellent guide.	2002-09-07
US	49181270	R16U4OEIFYHXSI	0689833806	371001066	When You've Got To Go (Bear in the Big Blue House, No. 6)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great toilet-training book for parents and kids	You or your child(ren) do not have to be fans of \\"Bear in the Big Blue House\\" to use and appreciate this very helpful book. (I'm lucky that it's my 2 year-old's favorite show). The pictures and words are uncomplicated and easy for children to understand, and I like that when covering the basic bodily functions, they used the words \\"poop\\" and \\"pee\\" rather than cutesy names. It's not really gender-specific, since it doesn't cover or show genitalia/ differences between boys and girls, but it handles everything else in a fun and educational manner. Parents may also like how it emphasizes wiping and hand washing after using the toilet, and it shows (with a clever illustration) where poop and pee go when flushed away. There's even a Toileteers Club that the characters form at the end, and the book comes with a Toileteer sticker as a bonus. There are plenty of reassurances along the way: that accidents happen, and that's normal and OK; that it's alright to leave what you're doing to go to the potty, and your things will still be there when you come back;  and that giving up diapers does not mean that the other great things about being a kid--like cuddles and hugs and love from mommy and daddy--go away. The episode this is based on is also available on video, and is equally good. Very highly recommended, along with \\"Once Upon a Potty\\" (separate books and videos for girls and boys) and \\"The Potty Book,\\" also separate for boys and girls.	2002-08-23
US	49181270	R132AMBKTO0WQ0	0451206495	484266792	Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide 2003 (Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide (Mass Market))	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Still the best all-around guide	Maltin's annual guide is a must-have for both film buffs and the casual fan. Each capsule entry is written in an engaging and sometimes humorous style, providing all the necessary general information (actors, director(s), running time, available formats, and more) plus extra details when needed, such as awards, later remakes, anecdotes, source material, etc. The best aspect of the book is how Maltin and his collaborators (a who's who of editors and reviewers) bring much-needed attention to the lost classics and forgotten gems so often overlooked or missing from video store shelves crammed with thirty copies of the newest product. Movie serials get a short introductory paragraph or two on their development, stars, and quality, covering everything from \\"The Thin Man\\" and \\"Charlie Chan\\" to \\"The Mexican Spitfire\\" and \\"The Bowery Boys.\\" Maltin is unafraid to go against popular and critical opinion, notably in his negative reviews of \\"Taxi Driver\\" and \\"Memento,\\" and his unsentimental take on \\"Forrest Gump.\\"<br />The sheer number of entries (nineteen thousand or so) means that even the most obscure B-movies get attention, and in this lies my only complaint: Why not dump some of the awful, grade-Z trash that barely made it to video (and is unlikely to ever see DVD) in favor of the better independents and more foreign films? (In his defense, there appear to be more foreign films this time around than before). Personally, I care more for what Zhang Yimou is doing these days than what Mamie Van Doren was doing forty years ago. Of course, the large number of entries does mean that a reader is rarely unable to find a film. (I guess it balances out).<br />In addition to the reviews, there is a handy family movie guide in front, featuring good family-friendly films past and present. There's also a nice list of mail-order sources for hard-to-find films and rarities. Overall, the book is well-organized, and a great reference work for homes, libraries, and video stores. Highly recommended. See also Roger Ebert's \\"Video Companion.\\"mended. See also Roger Ebert's \\"Video Companion.\\"	2002-08-22
US	49181270	R2B12WRYO22MXE	0684865793	881390122	Seeing in the Dark : How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth from Interplanetary Peril	Books	5	51	52	N	N	A long overdue tribute to those who do the "dirty work."	As an amateur astronomer myself, I was very pleased to find this wonderful tribute to those whose diligent, patient efforts have expanded our knowledge of the night skies. Ferris, an amateur astronomer himself, provides a well-written and engaging account (with appropriate doses of historical context, anecdotes and humor) of the quirky, sometimes obsessive, but always dedicated individuals who do the \\"dirty work\\" that professionals often lack the time--and access to overbooked telescopes and equipment--to perform: monitoring Martian storms, tracking comets, observing the occasional nova, and much, much more. Their constant vigilence may be our first line of defense against a rogue comet or asteroid, and thanks to improved equipment, their range is greater than ever. (Unfortunately, light pollution sometimes cancels out any gains in technology). Amateur astronomers toil mostly in obscurity and are mostly unheralded outside the field (though the professionals largely appreciate them), which is unfortunate--but Ferris does a wonderful job of giving them their due, revealing the quality work that they perform. Very highly recommended to fans of astronomy, both amateur and professional. One last thought--William Herschel was a practicing amateur when he discovered Uranus. <br />For more Tim Ferris, see \\"The Sky's Mind,\\" \\"Coming of Age in the Milky Way,\\" \\"The Red Limit,\\" and the excellent \\"The Whole Shebang.\\"	2002-08-22
US	49181270	R1V0ESQWNID8Y8	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	4	26	31	N	N	The best of the "alternative press."	A strange but engrossing mix of articles and essays, \\"You are being lied to\\" covers a vast array of topics and subjects, from Columbine to the Big Bang, from Darwin to Jesus, from the environment to the drug war, and many more.  According to the authors and editors, these are the facts and views that the mainstream press refuses to touch. Much of what is presented here flies in the face of convention or accepted beliefs, thus keeping in the best tradition of the alternative press. (Do bear in mind, however, that the authors of these articles are not completely innocent of pushing an agenda or personal point of view). Many familiar names are here: Noam Chomsky, Howard Bloom, Michael Horowitz, Jim Marrs, Judith Rich Harris, Howard Zinn. Most of the pieces here are clear and well-written, concise and informative. A few border on the bizarre, and I found Michael Cremo's \\"Forbidden Archaeology\\" to be a mere regurgitation of pseudoscientific fringe theories. The best essays, however, are worthy of repeated reading: Ali Abunimah's timely essay on terrorism points out that there are more terror groups operating in South America and Europe than in the Middle East, something I heard years ago from a trusted source--but I have yet to hear it in the mainstream media. Another good piece is Jim Martin's too-brief look at the horrors of communism--and that Joseph McCarthy may not have been far from the truth. Greg Bishop's \\"The Covert News Network\\" sheds light on some of the CIA's actions over the years; Sydney Schanberg calls John McCain's altruism towards POW/MIAs into question; Jeff Cohen and Norman Solomon's \\"The Martin Luther King You Don't See on TV\\" shows how the civil rights leader has been sanitized over the years; and Barry Chamish exposes a possible (indeed, likely) conspiracy behind the murder of Israeli PM Yitzhak Rabin, a theory that has already become to Israel what JFK has become to Americans. <br />The points of views presented are largely leftist and libertarian,though there are a few items of interest to moderates and conservatives, such as Russ Kicks' revealing expose on Al Gore, Patrick Moore's telling essay on the state of the environment, and Cletus Nelson's intriguing  piece on the Oklahoma City Bombing, which gives light (and some credence) to many of the theories on the subject expounded by the far right. I do wish they had spent some ink exposing the extremes of political correctness or the increasing number of guru-based cults springing up in this country, and I would have liked more essays on pseudoscience and our crumbling educational system. Even if one disagrees with some of the opinions presented within this book (as I did), they still provide food for thought and debate (always good) and present a much-needed challenge to the mainstream media.	2002-08-21
US	49181270	R215GWBXZCED6G	0071357432	239747537	Lost Languages: The Enigma of the World's Undeciphered Scripts	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Fascinating and informative	An altogether extraordinary and fascinating work, \\"Lost Languages\\" is an engaging and engrossing look at the ways that anthropologists and linguists have deciphered lost or forgotten languages. The first part of the book deals with the translation of three key languages: Egyptian hieroglyphics,  the Mayan glyphs, and Greek Linear B, and how the decoding of these languages led to major breakthroughs in our knowledge of those cultures. Robinson provides a wealth of detail on the processes needed to overcome the difficulties of translating a lost language, giving the reader an inside view of the workings of the world of linguists and the often laborious tasks they undertake when attempting to decode texts from a sparse handful of clues--and how anthropological information can sometimes be the key that finally opens the door.  The thrill of discovery, of unlocking the door to knowledge, is vividly presented here. Robinson's own excitement is nearly palpable, expressed in writing  that is almost giddy at times. The author also makes good use of numerous charts, graphs, and illustrations to highlight his points and to clarify textual information. <br />The second part of the book deals with nine languages  that have so far eluded translation, most notable Greek Linear A, the language of Easter Island, and the Etruscan language. Here, Robinson chronicles the frustrations and difficulties of  the efforts to finally break the mystery of these forgotten languages. All of the joy of the first part of the book--the thrill of discovery--is muted here, with disappointment and frustration frequently holding court. There may be a key out there somewhere (another Rosetta Stone, perhaps) but  for now--and maybe forever--these languages remain tantalizingly out of reach. <br />Written in a clear, reader-friendly style, with good doses of wit and anecdotal information, \\"Lost Languages\\" serves as a fine introduction to the world of ancient languages and those who seek to crack their hidden meanings.  One of the best things I can say about it, though, is that it is likely to make the reader want to learn more about its subject--always a good sign.  Excellent work.	2002-07-22
US	49181270	R1BNGTA2E4NGXJ	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More tragedy and misery for the poor Baudelaire orphans	Having narrowly escaped the dreadful Count Olaf, the three orphans are once again placed with another guardian by the clueless and inept Mr. Poe. This time it's Aunt Josephine, a dowdy woman who loves language and grammar (to the point of obsession) and who lives in a lonely house on a high hill overlooking the appropriately named Lake Lachrymose. When she disappears, leaving only a note behind, the kids sense the diabolical presence of Count Olaf behind it, and race to save poor Aunt Josephine.<br />Once again, Snicket provides the goods, blending dark humor, bad jokes, literary references, and heart-stopping suspense. There's a neat plot twist involving the note Aunt Josephine left for the kids, and once more, they employ their talents to foil the evil Count. At this point, there seems to be a pattern developing in these books--kids go to a new guardian, who falls victim to Count Olaf, and the kids narrowly escape his treachery. But keep reading--each story builds into the next, and what may seem trivial in one story may be crucial in the following book. The ongoing plot thread adds many layers as it progresses from book to book, and part of the fun is trying to figure out where it will go from here.	2002-07-22
US	49181270	R1MZDSBBKT7QVR	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A plea for reason	With his usual blend of solid research and reader-friendly prose, the late Carl Sagan takes to task the rising tide of ignorance and irrationalism that has pervaded much of our society in the last quarter century. Incorporating a wealth of detail, and recalling trends and ideas from the past, he illustrates that although we are more scientifically advanced than ever and our world is replete with amazing advancements and discoveries,  our comprehension of such things seems to be decreasing at a rapid rate, leaving the general populace unprepared for the swift changes that science and technology bring to our world. As ignorance mounts, as pseudoscience, quackery, and superstition creep into our ways of thinking, the flame of science and reason--the candle in the dark--dwindles, and a new dark age looms. <br />New age beliefs, pseudoscience, the therapy/psychology culture, religious extremism, and especially alien abduction; all (and many more) are skewered by Sagan's sound reasoning and methodical research (appropriately backed by a good bibliography). The evidence he presents is formidable, leaving many ideas (and their followers) with feet of clay, and many sacred cows running for cover--even some in the fields of legitimate science, who have co-opted their methodology for the sake of political pressure and money; Sagan takes them to task, as well. Like Ellie Arroway in \\"Contact,\\" he questions and questions, inquires and inquires, as a good scientist should. And Sagan, ever the scientist searching for solutions, offers possible remedies. He devotes most of a chapter (\\"The Art of Baloney Detection\\") to methods and ways of rationally approaching subject matter. He cites numerous examples of logical fallacies, errors in judgment, and dichotomous situations, and warns of the ways that even the most careful thinker can fall into illogical traps. <br />Sagan, known to some as a \\"religion basher,\\" does take issue with religion at times in the book. But much of what he saysdeals mostly with fundamentalism and extremism. Indeed, he states that \\"there is no necessary conflict between science and religion\\" (p. 277). He goes on to explore how many faiths have adapted to scientific change and discovery, and how both religion and science can be ways to seek the truths of our existence. (Naturally, he prefers science). After all, debate and doubt are traditions in both. Those who beliefs lean to the extreme are the only ones who need to fear scientific discovery.<br />For more Sagan, see also &quot;Cosmos&quot; (book and series), &quot;Broca's Brain,&quot; &quot;The Dragons of Eden,&quot; &quot;Billions and Billions,&quot; and the novel &quot;Contact&quot; (also a good movie).	2002-07-06
US	49181270	R105Z3S7U7CU3Z	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another clever outing	Having escaped the awful fate planned for them by the evil Count Olaf, the Baudelaire orphans once again find themselves without a home...until they are placed with Dr. Montgomery, an odd little man who loves to make cream pies and has a houseful of snakes--which the orphans find perfectly wonderful! In fact, he plans to take them with him to Peru on a snake-finding mission. All is going well, until they meet the doctor's strange new assistant, who seems dreadfully familiar...<br />Snicket's usual blend of off-the-wall humor, clever wordplay, and bad puns are combined with more suspensful situations and more scary moments at a thrill-a-minute pace. The children are in constant peril, but they always seem to squeeze out of it at the last second, relying on their own pluckiness and talents to stay a step ahead of danger. Once again, Snicket provides his fans with an entertaining book sure to please both young and old. Lots of fun!	2002-07-01
US	49181270	R2R63BHAD7HE00	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Warped fun	The poor Baudelaire kids. First, they are orphaned, then sent to live with the awful Count Olaf and his evil group of henchmen (and henchwomen, and one who seems, well, genderless). Soon they find he's after one thing: the fortune left to them by their poor departed parents, and he'll do anything to get it. But the kids are not without resources of their own. Violet is a clever inventor, Klaus has extensive book knowledge, and baby Sunny can chew through just about anything. Will they escape the horrible fate planned for them? Of course, but as the series title suggests, there's always another unfortunate event awaiting them...<br />Kids and adults will likely enjoy this oddball, off-the-wall mix of grim humor, bad puns, plays on words, and literary playfulness, a blend of Dahl, Dickens, and Charles Addams. There are unpleasant aspects to the story, and death seems to loom on every other page, but the resourceful and clever Baudelaire children always escape just in time--and kids will like the fact that they usually do so relying on their own talents. Although this has been touted as a companion to Harry Potter, there are remarkable differences between the two, most notably in style and humor. Kids who like the \\"darker\\" aspects of the Potter books may relate to this, but those who have read the aforementioned Dahl will find it easier to enjoy.	2002-06-21
US	49181270	R1L5CE9XOJ5SL4	076791032X	141760283	The Great Movies	Books	5	184	191	N	N	Let the debate begin!	This new book, by prominent movie critic Roger Ebert, is likely to ignite discussion and debate over his 100 selections. The debate shouldn't be over whether or not these are the 100 greatest movies ever, since the author establishes in the introduction that these are simply 100 great movies, and not necessarily what he considers the best. The debate, then, will likely be over why he considers some of the films to be great. Some of the choices will brook little argument: \\"Casablanca,\\" \\"Citizen Kane,\\" \\"Gone With the Wind,\\" \\"Battleship Potemkin,\\" \\"The Godfather,\\" and many others profiled are often at or near the top of most \\"great movies\\" lists. Even some of the more \\"obscure\\" entries, such as \\"Woman in the Dunes\\" and  \\"Gates of Heaven\\" are generally known to most film buffs and accepted by critics as fine filmmaking. Ebert's intent, it seems, is to make people aware of WHY \\"The Godfather\\" and other well-known films are so imbued into our consciousness, and to raise awareness of other, often forgotten classics. Terrence Malick's often overlooked \\"Days of Heaven\\" is just begging to be rediscovered, as is Fassbinder's haunting \\"Ali: Fear Eats the Soul,\\" Powell's frightening \\"Peeping Tom,\\" and Lang's wrenching \\"M.\\" Ebert gives each film a two or three page review, explaining many things of interest, including casting problems (Orson Welles over Noel Coward in \\"The Third Man\\", for example), production difficulties, and sometimes, each film's immediate or long-term impact (such as how \\"It's A Wonderful Life\\" rose from obscurity to become a holiday classic, or the resurrection of \\"The Shawshank Redemption\\" on home video). In addition, there are discussions of symbolism, controversies, directorial styles and quirks, and much more. This is a very informative book, great for film buffs like me (who became more aware of some wonderful films) and for the casual moviegoer. The writing is engaging, witty, and never technical. Ebert's love for film is present on every page. <br />As I looked over the list, I realized that I had few arguments with Ebert's choices--virtually everything listed qualifies as a great movie. I did wonder why he chose some films from certain genres and not others. \\"Red River\\" is a great Western, but why not \\"Stagecoach,\\" which invented the modern Western, or \\"The Searchers,\\" which perfected it? What about the iconoclastic \\"Shane\\"?  Silent films seemed to come up a bit short;  one could ask why not Chaplin's \\"Modern Times,\\" Griffith's  controversial \\"Birth of  a Nation,\\" or one of the last great silents, Sjostrom's \\"The Wind,\\" starring Lillian Gish? Certainly, \\"Modern Times\\" and \\"Birth of a Nation\\" have been profiled dozens of times over the years, but it would have been nice to see Ebert's opinion of them. Also, what about Richard Rush's brilliantly subversive \\"The Stunt Man,\\" starring Peter O'Toole? \\"A Hard Day's Night,\\" over \\"Yellow Submarine?\\" (Granted, his explanation about why \\"Night\\" was selected made prefect sense). And, it seems that some directors received more attention than others (Hitchcock, for example, though I am a fan). ONE David Lean? What about Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky? Chinese director Zhang Yimou? Preston Sturges' brilliant satire \\"Sullivan's Travels?\\" Welles in \\"Touch of Evil?\\"<br />But I'm quibbling. When a prominent critic like Ebert publishes a book like this, the end results can only be positive. For one, it will start debate and discussion among critics, film buffs, and casual fans, and second, it will raise awareness of great films so often forgotten by our society in the wake of the endless clones churned out by the modern Hollywood machine. I have made it my goal to see every film on the list (I had seen a number of them before it came out) and have managed to take in five of them just in the past two weeks, with another two or three on the way. (Home video is great!!). But, sadly, I have been unable to locate a few of the more obscure ones, especially the foreign classics. Videostores have ten or twenty copies of the latest release (forgotten in a year, if not sooner), but almost no classics and virtually no foreign films. (A hint: If you have access to a large university or public library, try there). This is not only a profile of good films, but also a look into the times, places, cultures, and individuals that produced them. Excellent work.	2002-05-20
US	49181270	R2OPVIHP4Z3FTL	0500510504	729840444	The Seventy Great Mysteries of the Ancient World: Unlocking the Secrets of Past Civilizations	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A good starting point	More of an encyclopedia of short entries concerning unsolved historical/archaeological mysteries than anything else, this book nonetheless provides enough general information to initiate those new to these ongoing debates. It also works well for people like me, who have read endlessly about some of these topics but sometimes need to look up a generality or a name associated with a particular subject. Most of the entries are concise and informative enough to provoke further reading, and the writing style is engaging and maintains interest. It covers most of the basic subjects (the development of language and writing, the Pyramids and the Sphinx, Atlantis) and a few more &quot;obscure&quot; ones: The Land of Punt, Mithraism, Tiwanaku (from my experience, these seem to come up short in other, similar books). (From here, one might look to &quot;Ancient Mysteries&quot; by James and Thorpe, which offers fewer topics but is incredibly well-researched and detailed). Good work.	2002-05-20
US	49181270	R22JE85KGH8FY7	1563898705	331222438	Dark Knight Strikes Again, The - VOL 01 (Batman)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Action-packed first issue	A good beginning to the sequel to the classic 1986 story, \\"The Dark Knight Returns.\\" Instead of the decrepit, decaying United States featured of the original, we have a bright utopia...but a paradise that comes at a cost. Under the shiny veneer lurks controlling individuals that are slowly destroying civil liberties. Superman is still a government agent, though weaker than before in body and (perhaps) mind. Jimmy Olson is campaigning for the truth, for the reality beneath the lies and deceit. And the heroes of old are curiously absent...<br />Into this, after three years of waiting and planning, comes the Batman. His shock troops--gang members from the original story, led by former Robin--now Catgirl--Carrie Kelly--wreak havoc on various government institutions; in doing so, Batman draws the attention of Superman.<br />The look and feel of the original is present here, with Miller's usual blend of sharp dialogue, dynamic action, and touches of social commentary. His rough, scratchy artwork gives the book a seedy edge, suggesting that underneath the pretty and sensationalistic images (such as News in the Nude) there's turmoil lurking. There are echoes of \\"Blade Runner\\" here, in the supersaturation of the populace with media images and manipulative advertisements, plus a few cyberpunk elements. Lynn Varley's color palette--such an asset here and in the original--has been enhanced by some computerized colorization effects. <br />So far, this is an exciting and entertaining follow-up; my only complaint is that the pacing feels a little rushed. Otherwise, it's great. Recommended to fans of the original, and those who like Miller's more visceral works, like \\"Sin City.\\" See also Miller's \\"Man Without Fear\\" and the classic graphic novels \\"Watchmen\\" and Kingdom Come.\\"	2001-12-15
US	49181270	R74W7RNEUUO01	0761122745	517932958	Non Campus Mentis: World History According to College Students	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Horrible history!	A hysterical look at the butchery of history by students across the country. Lists of things like this regularly pop up on the Internet, but those fall far short of the true ineptitude shown by some of our nation's students in the pages of this book. Might bring tears to your eyes--caused by both horror and laughter. The funniest ones might be those that show some inventive qualities--unable to come up with the answer, some students resorted to wild interpretations of what little they knew, with outrageous results. The perfect gift for history buffs, teachers, or professors...well, anyone who enjoys a good laugh. Hands down, this has to be one of the funniest things I've read in a while. As a student of history and a former teacher's assistant, I've seen things like this before...but these are far crazier. If you need a good laugh, here's the ticket.	2001-12-02
US	49181270	R3HP18O9PAC06B	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	13	15	N	N	What is the definition of a man?	This book is going to upset some people. Wolfe's latest novel is partially a commentary on our times (a la Bonfire of the Vanities), but more so an attempt to discover the meaning of  manhood in this post-modern, \\"liberated\\" age. Accessible to a wide range of readers, with strongly defined characters, \\"A Man in Full\\" provides a searing look at modern America, its values, morals, and beliefs. Despite the book's immense size, it is never boring, and is full of dry wit and clever, often angry prose.<br />The story revolves principally around the changing concept of manhood, and the forces that have altered it for both the better and worse. What does it mean to be a man in this day and age? For some it is the heavy machismo of sexual conquest; others it is the power of business and money; for others, it is honor and family. The book's main protagonists struggle constantly with their self-images. For Charlie Croker, the novel's principal character, it is the uprooting of his world after a full-fledged financial disaster robs him of his raison d'etre--what he perceives as the root of his existence--money and power. Much of the plot revolves around him, yet there is a sense that he is merely a representative character--symbolizing what is wrong with American manhood. There are few, if any, redemptive qualities within him. Redemption--in both the social and spiritual sense--is left to another character, Conrad Hensley. The novel features  other characters, as well, who struggle against defining themselves in terms of race and class and sexuality, while others use those same standards to give meaning to their lives. <br />At the heart of the book (although he is not the principal character, he is, ultimately, the book's hero) we have Conrad Hensley, whose own world has been changed by his refusal to plead guilty to a crime he did not commit. In Hensley we have a fine example of a modern man's quest to find himself, his manhood, values, and faith. Raised by hippie-ish parentsto deride all \\"bourgeois values\\" like honor, success, respect, and family, he finds himself seeking those very things to fill the hole in his being. He takes dreadful, dead-end jobs to support his own family; he remains true to his wife, and he works hard to be a good husband and father. <br />But for the sake of honor he refuses to plead guilty to aggravated assault in exchange for probation, and is sentenced to two years in jail. While in prison  he begins to ask questions about his existence, searching for a faith he has never known. He errantly receives a book on Stoicism, and this seemingly innocuous event changes him forever. He begins to see a more complete version of himself, not as a Stoic--which, as Wolfe seems to say, is the type of thinking that has helped wreck our society--but in a way, as the man he's always been--loyal, honorable, and trustworthy. In Stoicism he finds stability, but also sees in its values the kind of selfishness and dis-attachment that has helped undermine the essence of both his country and his gender.<br />Ultimately, he finds redemption when he heads home, to the stability of family and the very values he was taught to hate. Is that Wolfe's definition of  \\"a man in full?\\"--the substance of what a man should be? When viewed against the alternative male values in our society (sexual conquest, selfishness, power-seeking; all portrayed--through various other characters--in all their ugly emptiness) one sees that the values held by Hensley might be the ideal for men, and could ultimately be beneficial for society. Some may see this as a socially conservative viewpoint, but it's far deeper than that, a more classical definition of manhood bereft of the destructive and hedonistic tendencies of modern times and the more sexist beliefs of some past ideals--\\"liberation\\" in the truest sense of the word. Wolfe casts modern America as a kind of Neo-Rome, a place of shifting and empty values, of selfishness and  vague, nebulous spirituality.In powerful, sometimes angry words,  Wolfe--as strong a social critic as any novelist, akin to Dickens in his droll observations of his world--gives us a view of an America that has become more democratized, more free and \\"liberated,\\" even as it criticizes, destroys, and undermines the very values and beliefs that define and sustain that selfsame, tenuous democracy. A brilliant, memorable novel.	2001-12-02
US	49181270	R1D72TFMYH0B69	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	58	84	N	N	A review for Christians and concerned parents	(...)I would like to offer my opinion on the Harry Potter books, based on my status as both a Christian and a parent. There&#8217;s so much hype and hyperbole surrounding these books that it may be difficult for parents and Christians to sort through it all. Are they filled with the occult, as some claim? Are they leading our children into witchcraft/occultism? Do they teach disrespect, irreverence, disobedience? What follows is merely my opinion, which I have constructed after much contemplation, prayer, and consultation.<br />What are the books about? Most people know the basics--orphaned boy whose parents were killed by a dark wizard (Lord Voldemort, He-who-must-not-be-named) is raised by his horrible aunt and uncle, discovers at age 11 that he is a wizard and has been accepted to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. There, he begins his magical training and makes many friends. The first book deals mostly with Harry becoming acclimated to his surroundings and his classes.  There&#8217;s also the mystery surrounding a package that Hogwarts Headmaster Albus Dumbledore has had moved to the school--none other than the Sorcerer&#8217;s Stone (based on the legend of the Philosopher&#8217;s Stone, also the title of the book in Britain). And who keeps trying to cause bodily harm to Harry--nasty Potions teacher Severus Snape, who seems to hate Harry? Or someone else? Could this have anything to do with Lord Voldemort, barely alive since his attack on the infant Harry rebounded on him, leaving the dark wizard near death? Part of the fun of the story is the myriad twists and turns with which Rowling imbues the plot, leaving readers guessing.  The book has some plot inconsistencies and the characters aren&#8217;t well-defined, but as the series progresses, (and Rowling becomes more comfortable), things get better.<br />Rowling&#8217;s fantasy world swarms with clever, quirky ideas: &#8220;living&#8220; chess sets, Every Flavor Beans (yes, EVERY flavor), Quidditch (a combination of soccer and basketball played on brooms), pictures that literally move, and much more. Humor abounds; even adults will finding themselves snickering. Devotees of classical literature and mythology will enjoy some of the references and character names.<br />There are even a few Christian elements in the story (Harry&#8217;s mother was named Lily--a symbol of Easter ; Harry&#8217;s wand is made of holly and a feather from a phoenix, both sometimes used as Christian symbols; Harry is in Gryffindor House, whose symbol is the Lion, sometimes used to represent Christ (&#8220;The Lion of Judah;&#8221; see Aslan in &#8220;The Chronicles of Narnia.&#8221;);Lord Voldemort is associated with serpents, the symbol of the Devil).<br />There are many lists online.<br />So what is all the fuss about? Should parents and Christians be concerned?  Well, yes and no.<br />The positive: Harry is a good protagonist--courageous, clever, fiercely loyal, and self-sacrificing. He often risks life and limb without hesitation. Despite years of abuse growing up,  he&#8217;s generally good natured and sympathetic. Kids can easily relate to his underdog status--he&#8217;s short and skinny for his age, has to wear glasses, and comes to school feeling lost because he grew up outside the wizarding world. Trust me folks; there are far worse role models for your kids.<br />The negative: He doesn&#8217;t always tell the truth, and does have a tendency to break the rules (we see less of that as he matures).  Usually, Harry is forced to pay the consequences (such as losing a large number of points for his House in the school&#8217;s yearly competition) but not always. This is a good place for parents to discuss right and wrong and obedience with their kids.<br />So, what about the magical elements in the book? Do they make Harry and his world evil? That&#8217;s open for debate; though I offer a few insights that might help:<br />Harry&#8217;s magic is inborn, performed with a few words (usually clever variations on Latin words); there are no pentagrams or chants, no sacrifices, no dealings with spirits. There IS a ditzy Divination teacher at Hogwarts, who appears in the 3rd book, but she--and her class--are played for laughs. The magic involved is utilitarian, not supernatural; but to some, magic is still magic, and forbidden. Again, this may be a good point for discussion with your kids. There&#8217;s also been some flap about one of the Sorcerer&#8217;s Stone&#8217;s creators, Nicholas Flamel (fictional here, but he DID exist, and tried to create a Philosopher&#8216;s Stone). Nicholas is 665 years old, and will die in the next year...making him 666. Hmmm....a Satanic reference? More like coincidence. Rowling based the books in the early 1990s, and the real Nicholas Flamel would have been about 665 years old then.<br />Also, Harry DOES NOT summon the dead. Through a magical object--The Mirror of Erised--Harry sees his heart&#8217;s desire--the parents and family he barely knew. He does not interact with them.<br />There is a scene in the Sorcerer&#8217;s Stone that may disturb younger kids: While in the Forbidden Forest, Harry spies a slain unicorn...and someone drinking its blood in order to stay alive. But as a centaur points out to Harry, this is considered a monstrous crime...only the most evil individuals would resort to such measures.  Still, parents might want to be wary of this scene.<br />If you have concerns about these books, read them with your kids and discuss what you agree and disagree with. Will these books bring kids into the occult or teach kids disobedience? Only if parents allow it! Make it clear to kids that this is pure FANTASY.  Kids are going to want to read these books; what they take from them is up to their parents and guardians. This could be an opportunity to bond with your children. For further reading, there are articles in Christian and parent-oriented magazines and online. There&#8217;s also Connie Neal&#8217;s book \\"What&#8217;s A Christian to do with Harry Potter?\\"<br />I hope this review helps. I am sorry it&#8217;s so long.ds (usually clever variations on Latin words); there are no pentagrams or chants, no sacrifices, no dealings with spirits. There IS a ditzy Divination teacher at Hogwarts, who appears in the 3rd book, but she--and her class--are played for laughs. The magic involved is utilitarian, not supernatural; but to some, magic is still magic, and forbidden. Again, this may be a good point for discussion with your kids. There&#8217;s also been some flap about one of the Sorcerer&#8217;s Stone&#8217;s creators, Nicholas Flamel (fictional here, but he DID exist, and tried to create a Philosopher&#8216;s Stone). Nicholas is 665 years old, and will die in the next year...making him 666. Hmmm....a Satanic reference? More like coincidence. Rowling based the books in the early 1990s, and the real Nicholas Flamel would have been about 665 years old then.  <br />Also, Harry DOES NOT summon the dead. Through a magical object--The Mirror of Erised--Harry sees his heart&#8217;s desire--the parents and family he barely knew. He does not interact with them. <br />There is a scene in the Sorcerer&#8217;s Stone that may disturb younger kids: While in the Forbidden Forest, Harry spies a slain unicorn...and someone drinking its blood in order to stay alive. But as a centaur points out to Harry, this is considered a monstrous crime...only the most evil individuals would resort to such measures.  Still, parents might want to be wary of this scene. <br />If you have concerns about these books, read them with your kids and discuss what you agree and disagree with. Will these books bring kids into the occult or teach kids disobedience? Only if parents allow it! Make it clear to kids that this is pure FANTASY.  Kids are going to want to read these books; what they take from them is up to their parents and guardians. This could be an opportunity to bond with your children. For further reading, there are articles in Christian and parent-oriented magazines and online. There&#8217;s also Connie Neal&#8217;s book \\"What&#8217;s A Christian to do with Harry Potter?\\" <br />I hope this review helps. I am sorry it&#8217;s so long.	2001-11-17
US	49181270	R6BP5IH2ZGU5L	068485936X	566879170	Ancient Encounters: Kennewick Man and the First Americans	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Excellent account of an important anthropological discovery	A first-rate, well-written work. Essentially, the book is divided into two parts: The first deals with the discovery of Kennewick Man's bones along a riverbank, and the subsequent combination of controversy, government ineptitude, and racial politics that prevented proper study of one of the most important anthropological finds of recent memory. Chatters relates his limited time with the bones of the ancient man in a lively manner, explaining various terms and theories in an easy to understand way. Most interesting is the morass of legality and accusations of racism that prevented Chatters and others from giving the skeleton the attention it deserved (despite the fact that Chatters had worked dilligently in the past to help reclaim and identify Native remains, so that they could be returned to the proper tribes). Under the guise of NAGPRA (which--when it works--allows Native Americans to rightfully reclaim skeletons and artifacts taken from Native American graves and sacred sites), local Native American tribes claimed the skeleton as an ancestor, despite mounting evidence that not only was he not a descendant of any of the local tribes, but was more akin to Polynesian/Aboriginal peoples, with traces of European ancestry. Undeterred by the evidence, and backed by gutless government bureaucrats, the tribes scored a victory and Kennewick Man may be forever lost to those who wished to study and learn from his remains. Still, Chatters and others were able to glean a fair amount of information from their limited time with the skeleton; the second half of the book deals principally with what they learned and how this discovery, coupled with emerging evidence from other sites, is changing what we know about the peopling of the Americas. Chatters devotes much of the second half to theory and speculation; it's interesting, but not as exciting as the whirlwind of events surrounding the initial discovery. Still, it rekindled my interest in anthropology and ancient America; people who like this may also enjoy &quot;Iceman&quot; by Brenda Fowler, and &quot;The Settlement of the Americas&quot; by UK professor Tom Dillehay. Excellent work.	2001-10-20
US	49181270	R5X0IQH1TP1U4	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great afternoon diversion, with humor to spare	The rent's due, and bail enforcer (\\"bounty hunter\\") Stephanie Plum takes a throwaway job just for the money: extricating a \\"little person\\" (don't call him a midget) from his apartment. He proves to be rather difficult to deal with, and to top off a bad day, her skinflint Uncle Fred has gone missing. Found in Fred's desk are photos of what appears to be a dismembered body, which may or may not be linked to his disappearance. Add to that the fact that a serial rapist who she helped put away is out on parole. To boot, there's a suspicious man following her everywhere, hoping she'll find Fred, because he wants to find him as well. Oh yes, there's also the (un?)wanted attentions of two men: one a cop, the other a man who works independently on the edge of the law-and who employs Stephanie in his \\"business\\" when she needs the money. And of course, Grandma (who attends funerals whether she knows the family or not) and the rest of her eccentric family keep things lively. A clever, off-the-wall, humorous story which features ample twists and turns and oddball characters. The tale rips along at a quick pace, propelled by Evanovich's spare writing and frequent humor. The characters are easy to relate to in their quirkiness, as each one has endearing, sympathetic, or other qualities that make one like them  (except the loony serial rapist, whose fate REDEFINES irony). Stephanie is tough, hard-nosed, and stubborn as heck, with bravado to spare,  but also vulnerable at times, and has a good sense of right and wrong (which circumstances sometimes force her to discard temporarily). The supporting characters are developed enough, and provide most of the humor, though the black former prostitute Lula's a bit of a stereotype, as is a young sheik Stephanie escorts as a side job to raise money (though he's got some, ah,&quot;unique&quot; ideas about how women should behave). But the story is mostly good-natured, despite a few murders and some unpleasantness involving the paroled rapist.Constant quips and jokes keep things loose, as does Evanovich's relaxed writing style. Vigilant readers may figure out the culprit behind the body in the bag and his/her motives before the resolution, but there's plenty of extra subplots to keep one guessing. And for pity's sake, don't lend Stephanie a car you value!	2001-10-02
US	49181270	R17FE794VA50E4	0898705800	441629316	Father Elijah: An Apocalypse	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Brilliant, fascinating novel	Father Elijah Schaefer, Holocaust survivor and former Jew, is called out of his quiet contemplation by the Vatican, who seek to enlist his aid in determining the true intentions of a powerful European man known as the President. The Vatican suspects that this man may very well be the Antichrist, and sends Father Elijah on a mission: Determine the truth about the President, and if their worst fears prove to be realized, then attempt to bring him to repentance in order to delay the Great Tribulation and allow the salvation of as many souls as possible. Once inside the huddle of powerful men and women that surround the enigmatic leader, Elijah meets Anna Benedetti, a widow whose sharp intellect proves to be a match for his own. Soon, he finds himself drawn to this woman both intellectually and romantically, and finds his faith severely tested by the dying Count Smokrev, whose depravity seems to know no bounds. As he learns more about the real nature of the President, he finds a web of evil slowly closing around him, threatening all he holds dear. A stunning tale, richly plotted and layered with intelligent dialogue and a fervent, palpable faith; an urgent, apocalyptic story that is both politically and culturally viable and biblically accurate. Less literal than many other end-times novel, with fascinating, memorable characters, Father Elijah moves at a brisk pace, spurred by a strong plot and sound moral and spiritual elements familiar to all Christians; one doesn't have to be Catholic to recognize many of the themes presented here: faith, love, hope, redemption, spiritual warfare for the souls of humankind. Father Elijah is a wonderful protagonist, a man whose deep faith hides many scars from his former life, before the priesthood. His attraction to Anna is not a mere plot fabrication, but the natural outgrowth of a relationship that begins as intellectual camaraderie and grows into a deep and beautiful friendship. Anna is also fascinating, a humanistic counter to Elijah's fervent faith. They are alike, yet different; their debates and disagreements on humanity make for good reading, helping propel some of the slower sections of the book. Miracles and apparitions are commonplace, emanations of divine will that seem to come at random, yet are logical expressions of the plot and the ultimate direction that O'Brien wishes to take the story. The subplot involving the corrupt Count Smokrev is a story unto itself, a fascinating look at forgiveness and absolution. The book's theology, of course, is very Catholic, but Protestant readers will find familiar ground in the use of Revelations and the strong sense of divinely-inspired morality presented within. One may quibble with the occasional bits of evangelism employed by O'Brien, but mostly the book presents arguments (though debatable) that are theologically and biblically solid. Excellent work--like Walter Miller's &quot;A Canticle for Liebowitz,&quot; a haunting book that will stay with me for a long time.	2001-10-02
US	49181270	RGEMAJZMKEHPQ	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Mixed bag of a novel that's still worth reading	Blues musician Robert Johnson, who (supposedly) died in 1938, wanders onto an Indian reservation in 1992 seeking relief from his burdens. His presence inspires Thomas Builds-the-fire and two local troublemakers (Victor Joseph and Junior Polatkin) to form a rock band called Coyote Springs. Joined by two Flathead Indian women, Chess and Checkers Warm Water, Coyote Springs finds fame and fortune on the reservation, and is soon hired to play at bars in the surrounding area. An impressive performance at a \\"battle of the bands\\" contest in Spokane brings them to the attention of a national record label. Internal conflicts begin to tear the band apart; can they resolve their differences or will they go their separate ways? Alexie weaves an interesting story that is often a little too heavy with metaphors and allegories, and the plot and actions sometimes suffers from it. One may need a degree in Native American culture to make sense of it all. Despite that, the story does keep your attention, with very few lags or lulls in the narrative. The characters are fairly interesting, though Thomas and Checkers keep your affections easier than the others. Junior gains the most sympathy, being the orphaned son of two chronic alcoholics, plus he struggles constantly with alcoholism himself. Thomas and Chess develop a romantic relationship, while Checkers focuses her affections on the reservation's priest. Religion is a central theme. Alexie deftly weaves Christianity with tribal beliefs, noting the effect that both have on the Native culture, and sums it up with the eventual partnership between the priest and the tribe's mysterious holy woman. Alcoholism (used frequently as a plot point; it has touched the lives of all of the main characters) dominates the reservation, as effective as smallpox and relocations in destroying the Native American people. The abuses suffered by the Indians at the hands of whites and other Indians are also frequently brought into play-welfare, joblessness,and broken promises. One allegorical plot point, a past basketball game between the corrupt tribal cops and two young Native men, is actually left unresolved and hanging; one never learns who wins the game. A past massacre of Indians by a cavalry group is clumsily linked to the record company that tries to sign the band; it actually serves to disrupt and weaken the plot. The story moves best when the characters are interacting, slowing down when Alexie employs metaphors to make points or explain a situation. One of the more interesting aspects of Thomas' personality-his ability to tell stories-is touched on early in the novel, only to disappear without explanation. With a little tightening, this could be a great story.	2001-09-05
US	49181270	R15QI7QE9MJU06	0553581023	647140366	Follow the Stars Home	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Better than average novel, with good characters	Dianne Robbins loved both of the McIntosh brothers, but married the wrong one. Abandoned before she gave birth to a daughter with many birth defects, Dianne struggles to raise Julia and to understand why Tim left her. Though she swears she will never give her heart to anyone, ever again, she still harbors feelings for the other McIntosh brother, Alan, who is Julias doctor. Her life is changed by Amy, a bright twelve-year-old whose own heart hides many scars and pain. When an accident leaves Dianne and Amy hospitalized, Tim begins to believe he has a second chance with her, while Alan feels that maybe the time has come  to reveal the longing he has felt for Dianne for many years. Rice has created characters with depth and personality, ones that you can relate to in their flaws and feelings. The plot is very basic: will she fall back into Tims arms, or will she give her heart to Alan? Or neither? What of Amy, from an abusive home and unsure where she belongs? What drives the book is Rices bold writing and excellent narrative, strengthened by believable characters and situations. One develops instant attachments to the characters, even Tim; Rice doesnt want the reader to grow too fond of him, but hes not a complete jerk, and hes given more development than one would expect. Diannes fragility and strength are contrasting parts of her character, and Rice uses them appropriately in the proper situations; plus, in Dianne, we find a heroine whose flaws and failings are refreshingly normal and easy to understand. Dianne loves her daughter Julia, but one gets the impression that a small part of her sees in Amy the normal child she wants. Character motivations and behaviors are consistent throughout; no one does anything that seems out of character. Alans feelings for Dianne seem sincere, and Amys crush on Alan makes for some amusing and touching moments. Tims motivations in both leaving Dianne and trying to make up with her are integral tohis character; one may not like him, but one can see and (maybe) understand why he did what he did.  The supporting characters (Malachy, Lucinda, Buddy, Tess, more) are also well-realized. Brisk pacing and dialogue help move the book along, with few dull moments. Theres some foul language, and some sexual content, but not in excessive amounts.  Some people would see this as a chick book, but its far deeper than the potboilers that often populate the stands. Rice has brought us a wonderful story, full of good characters one can enjoy and love.	2001-09-05
US	49181270	R3UZND0GP0X7X7	0446404535	616137316	Brother Cadfael's Penance (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good yarn, nice period detail	The twentieth and final book in the popular series, Brother Cadfael's Penance finds the title character drawn out of his home at the Benedictine Abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul in a quest to free a young man taken prisoner in a war between the Empress Maud and her cousin, Stephen. Betrayal at the hands of Robert,  one of the Empress's most trusted soldiers has landed Olivier de Bretagne in prison, where he seems destined to rot. But word of his fate reaches Brother Cadfael, who knows he must leave the Abbey and come to the aid of the young man-who is the monk's only child, sired before his vows during the time he fought in the Crusades. He must also keep Olivier's impulsive brother-in-law safe, and solve the murder of a rogue lord who supported Robert. A fascinating story on many levels, Brother Cadfael's Penance combines the best of adventure stories, mysteries, and historical fiction into one seamless, well-realized tale. Everything about the story-especially character, setting, and historical detail-rings true. Peters' knowledge of Middle Ages customs, language, and beliefs, honed through years of writing, is extensive and makes the era come alive. Cadfael, now the subject of a twentieth story, feels as familiar as family. Torn between his vows and his duty as a father, Cadfael places his son first when he decides to travel to Coventry to seek help and information. But such a decision comes at a cost to Cadfael's peace of mind. Here is where Peters' familiarity with her character becomes noticeable. Cadfael's faith is tested, as is his devotion to the way of life he has chosen. Peters makes his internal struggles seem genuine, the natural outcome of having his world turned upside down; yet he emerges from his travails stronger in both spirit and character. The secondary characters, such as Olivier, Yves, and Robert, are also fleshed out and realistic. The conflict in the story is based on real history, yet the fictional aspects of the story blend very well with the historical facts. Sometimes the plot becomes too thick for its own good, and there are times when there seem to be more characters than necessary. But the story progresses well, and is never boring.  Interestingly, Cadfael's search for his son takes precedence over the mystery, which seems almost an afterthought. (It does tie in with the main plot, though). The identity and motive of the murderer is well-hidden until the revelatory moment, and ultimately the story is left with a few plot threads hanging. It is possible that Peters intended to write another book but died before it was realized. The resolution of the main plot thread, though, is very satisfactory and allows the story to end on a positive note.	2001-09-05
US	49181270	R296Y925G2AWJ9	0345430751	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great concepts; a real mind-blower!	Baxter has produced a fast-paced, mind-blowing adventure loaded with concepts and theoretical physics (much of which has basis in fact) that may frustrate those not familiar with quantum mechanics, universal expansion, heat death, and the nature of matter. The characters are better than one expects, though there are many instances where they are merely observers along for the ride. Malenfant alternates between driven and stubborn-he doesn't let things like laws and rules get in his way. Cornelius remains a mystery throughout, and Emma proves to be both a voice of conscience and (when it's obvious Malenfant isn't listening) a voice of moderation. The story's point-of-view alternates from person to person, with the occasional commentary from fringe characters (even Sheena and her offspring, the space faring cephalopods). Much of the plot revolves around the asteroid Cruithne (which does exist) and the mysterious, time-and-reality spanning artifact found on its surface; its purpose is never fully revealed, though it does play a pivotal role in the story. The artifact, along with the sudden evolution of a generation of earth's children into hyper intelligent geniuses, and one of the places Malenfant stops on a universal jaunt near the end, will remind readers-a little too much-- of two of Arthur C. Clarke's best works: Childhood's End and 2001: A Space Odyssey. Baxter may have intended for the \\"borrowed\\" plot elements to be a tribute, but he never says so in the brief after word. All that aside, the story is never boring, and there's a trip through endless possible realities that has to be read to be believed, as well as a journey to the end of the universe as we know it. Baxter frequently employs theories about the universe's fate-along with mankind's-that are widely accepted among physicists, and are uniformly pessimistic. One also has to tolerate an unending stream of religion-bashing. And the ending is not to be believed-a strange twist that undermines nearly all that has transpired in the story-but does make sense, when one realizes that it answers one of the plot's fundamental questions: What is humanity's role in the universe? Recommended to people who enjoy hard sci-fi; other beware.	2001-08-28
US	49181270	R2N5XFGZSOT18X	0061097853	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable mystery, well-paced, with good characters	Acting Lieutenant Jim Chee believes he has an open and shut murder case when he catches a known poacher standing over the dying body of a fellow policeman. What he doesn't know is that his former boss, the now-retired Joe Leaphorn, has been hired by an elderly woman to locate her missing niece, a specialist in infectious diseases who went missing on the same day and in the same area as the murder. Are the two instances related? Does this have anything to do with the death, from bubonic plague, of an Indian man? As leads narrow and evidence (or lack of it) accumulates, Chee and Leaphorn come together once again to solve another baffling case. Hillerman's greatest attribute seems to be his ability to make the Southwest come alive. As much as the characters, the terrain and landscape seem to dictate the tone and feel of the story. The Navajo reservation, with its sacred mountains and endless skies, provides most of the backdrop for the tale. After producing numerous books featuring the Chee and Leaphorn characters, Hillerman writes them as if they were his oldest friends, with a familiarity and ease that make the reader instantly get a sense of who they are and how they think and feel. Chee and Leaphorn go back a long way, and their relationship is as much father-son as anything else. The supporting characters are better than one would expect, though their development is minimal. Some of them seem to have been around for other books, so long-time readers may be more familiar with them than newcomers, but Hillerman works hard to make sure that the reader becomes acquainted with each one. Most interesting are the relationships between Chee and Leaphorn and their would-be or past love interests, who crop up in the story. Violence is minimal, as is rough language. No sexual content to speak of. Hillerman's familiarity with Navajo and Hopi traditions make for some good background material, and do help explain the motivations and beliefs of many of the characters-and play apart in the eventual resolution. The book unfolds at a leisurely pace, with occasional bursts of energy. There are a few plot holes, and the ultimate fate of the culprit is left hanging (though there is some irony in what does happen to him/her).	2001-08-28
US	49181270	R36DS2DNS2MU3Y	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not Harry Potter, but worth a look	Artemis Fowl, the latest in a long line of criminal masterminds, plots to restore his family's fortune by stealing some of the immense wealth hoarded by fairies. Finding a fairy is hard enough. Extorting gold from them is even harder-in fact, no one has ever succeeded in keeping fairy gold. And the fairy he chooses to abduct for ransom is someone to be reckoned with...a well-trained member of the LEPrecon, a sophisticated police unit of the fairy world. But the fairies have never met someone like Artemis and his bodyguard, Butler. Artemis is well-connected, clever, technologically savvy, shrewd, and astute. He has rarely been thwarted. His name is feared by underworld figures everywhere. Few have dared to cross him, fewer still have survived the encounter...Did I mention that he is twelve years old? Colfer has constructed a humorous, clever, edgy tale centered on a boy who's best described as a mix of Einstein and Michael Corleone. He's greedy, amoral, smug, and fiercely competitive; yet beneath the tough exterior is a heart of a twelve-year-old boy...and beneath that he's greedy, amoral, and smug. He's not someone who's an ideal role model for kids; hence, this book is recommended to people Artemis' age and above. Adults and older children will love some of the author's clever inventions, such as the way that fairies travel to the surface, and the mix of magic and technology employed by their society. Younger kids will like the sometimes crude humor, such as the way dwarves tunnel through the earth (hint: soil goes in one end...and out the other...sometimes explosively) and the action. A brisk pace and some neat plot twists (such as the one involving Artemis' mother at the end) keep the reader's interest, but parts of the book lag. The reader may adopt a \\"get on with it\\" attitude during the slow sections. Some language, more than one would expect from a children's book, though nothing really bad-just the \\"h\\" and \\"d\\" words. Butler makes for a good supporting character, and provides temperance to some of Artemis' occasional juvenile fits. He's also the boy's conscience...but only to a certain degree. Holly Short, the kidnapped fairy, is tough and bright. None of the characters are extremely well-developed, though that may change in the following novels-more are planned, and Colfer has already sold the movie rights. An extra challenge lies in figuring out the code listed at the bottom of each page. Older fans of Harry Potter may like this, and adults will find it a pleasant diversion.	2001-08-28
US	49181270	R3N10AKENW0Z75	0553110721	698766211	Dune: House Harkonnen	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not bad, but could have been a lot better	Having read the masterful Dune series, and having enjoyed \\"House Atreides,\\" I looked forward to this second book in the prequel trilogy. Being a librarian, I was able to get it at work just a day after its release. I sat down to read...and found myself VERY disappointed. The plot is at times disjointed (coincidences abound), and some of the twists and turns are ludicrous (what happens to Leto's son Victor seems to echo events from the original Dune novel; are they borrowing from Frank?). At times, I was bored with the book...it seemed to go nowhere fast...or is that slow? And the trials and tribulations of House Vernius are so excessively tragic as to almost be laughable. Speaking of laughable--the interplay between the Baron and the Bene Gesserit sisters borders on the ridiculous. I did find the source of the Baron's debilitating affliction to be rather ironic, though. Anachronisms abound in the story. Anyone who's read McNelly's Dune Encyclopedia (based on Herbert's notes and chronology, which Brian and Kevin seem to be ignoring...or maybe McNelly's wrong) knows that these stories take place nearly 25,000 years in our future. Why the constant references to Old Terra? After that much time, wouldn't traditions and beliefs (such as the uniforms of the Ginaz Swordmasters)carried from Earth have faded or altered into something else? Much of the book seems rushed; Duncan's training (which is supposed to be the most difficult in the known universe) finishes rather quickly (and seems only slightly more challenging than Ranger training...it's as if Herbert and Anderson felt that other elements of the plot merited more attention). The \\"artificial spice\\" subplot is handled in a tedious and somewhat pedestrian manner, which is unfortunate since it is the only plotline with intriguing potential. It makes sense for Shaddam to attempt such a thing; after all, he could effectively corner the market. But Herbert and Anderson come darn close to botching that entire plot thread. (Readers of the original book know how that particular plotline works out). Plus, the liberation of Ix seems inevitable--after all, Heighliners and Ixian devices pervade the original book, and the slimy Bene Tleilax are back where they belong. Following this series is a bit like following the Star Wars prequels--much of the drama is gone, since one knows how it's going to end. At least \\"House Harkonnen\\" finishes well, with a few nice tie-ups to the serpentyne plots and subplots. There is adequate action and intrigue to propel the book through its numerous slow spots. There's enough good in it to merit three stars--and after all, it IS a Dune book, with most of the elements that made the original series a masterpiece. Read it, if only to fill in the gap between first and third books. \\"House Atreides\\" was fairly good, and an adequate addition to the Dune universe. But this...Ugh! One hopes that \\"House Corrino\\" proves to be better. There has been talk that Herbert and Anderson intend to cap off the original series by completing Frank's unfinished Book Seven...one can only hope that they do that more justice than this uninspired addition to the Dune universe.	2001-08-15
US	49181270	R1EBMZY1LZIXG7	044651862X	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	18	22	N	N	Silly, juvenile, pseudo-religious junk for the weak-minded!	The title of this review says it all--the book is an utter waste of time. Are people so desperate for spiritual enlightenment that they will turn to this puerile, poorly-written trash for answers? Awful, even by New Age standards--and just a step below Marlo Morgan's atrocious books about Aborigines, and makes Richard Bach's saccharine efforts seem genuine. About as real and inspiring as powdered milk. For Christians, pagans, non-believers--all people--DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME!!	2001-04-17
US	49181270	R19REESYB05BQS	0345401956	833729860	Ancient Mysteries	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Dispels many ignorant beliefs about the ancient world	A first rate, well-researched tome that New Agers and believers in ancient astronauts should avoid, unless they want their precious theories dispelled, vanquished by hard evidence and solid research. Recommended to  anyone who enjoys history and/or archaeology; not for those who own power  crystals and regularly commune with Atlantean spirits. Excellent work.	2000-07-11
