US	49193759	R3UPZ5W77TCDNJ	0373037244	178363932	the bedroom assignment  (tango)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Luke warm	THE BEDROOM ASSIGNMENT has a summary in the back of the book that gets your interest But when you get into the story, you're like \\"Ugh...\\" cause Zoe (the main female character) has an issue with being a virgin since everyone thinks of her as a raver. <br />Then along comes our hero, Jay, the playboy. He's the only person in the whole wide world that she tells about her \\"shocking condition.\\" They have this marvelous scene where they're like just scrambling around looking for the solution to cure her \\"problem.\\" Eventually they do and the romance takes off in the middle of it. <br />THE BEDROOM ASSIGNMENT had some of its good moments but it wasn't that serious for me to really enjoy the book. These kind of books are supposed to be fun reads and I guess they're supposed to be what they are but I hoped to expect something a little bit more. <br />Don't get me wrong, it's an okay book and of course there was something that made me bulldoze through the story, I just hoped that the author would give me more substance. Anyway, I hope all you readers out there enjoy this one!	2003-01-16
US	49193759	R1DRQUHGMYIXR1	0373122357	452404252	The Italian's Wife	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Another Masterpiece!	Rio's limo nearly runs Holly over and in the act to save her baby son, she pushes the buggy away and loses her balance. She blacksout for a few seconds but then remains her consciousness. Rio brings her to the hospital where she's looked over. Holly feels secure because after the abandonment act her parents and boyfriend did to her, here's a guy taking care of her. <br />In what Holly thought as an attempt to save her son from Social Services, Rio says they're engaged. When she finds out that he actually does plan to marry her, she's shocked. After all, they haven't known each other for more than a few days. She's not sure about her decision because she loves him but he says he can come to be fond of her. And what about that rumor? The one that said he was engaged to a supermodel up til an hour before he met Holly. Who dumped who?<br />I can never be disappointed at Graham's work. I love her heroines because they take action in how their future is going to happen. When the heroines do something, they do it with a bang&gt; Her heros are good too because they're cutely obtuse and arrogant, enough to be the perfect match with the heroine.	2002-05-07
US	49193759	R3710TJAT4GZY7	0373120958	505475884	A Boss In A Million (Harlequin Presents No. 2095)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Marvelous Heroine !!	Helen Brooks did a wonderful job. I think it was the heroine, Cory that made it so wonderful for me. She was strong and she held onto her place and didn't let Max walk all over her. <br />Cory began to work for Max after leaving the supposed love of her life, Vivian. Vivian was getting married so she had to leave or she'll be destroyed. (Yes, Vivian is a guy) All thoughts of Vivian fled when she met Max. Max has some personal issues but his personality was captivating. He's stubborn, strong, gorgeous and protective, in his own ways. Max states in the very beginning that their relationship would only be a working relationship and that he doesn't want her to tie any emotions to this job. She agrees but that was before she realized she has fallen for him. She left him because she knew he wouldn't open up his heart to the possibility of love because of his personal issues. She walks out on him and decides to pick up her life but surprises were meant to be in store for Cory...<br />A BOSS IN A MILLION is a very well written book. First of all I could tell that Helen Brooks did research for her setting. There was  a brief period where the characters go to Japan and every detail was well planned out. It was as if you were there and it was almost as if you were experiencing the culture. Second, I admire the heroine for her strength and for her insight of some situations. Third, this is a must read for those who revel in strong characters!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2002-04-20
US	49193759	RQLPP5KFKXIE5	0373121326	438335449	Bought: One Husband (Harlequin Presents No. 2132)(Wedlocked)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A bland sort of reading	BOUGHT: ONE HUSBAND isn't one of those intensifying reads where you have to know what's going to happen next. The story is lukewarm at best and the characters are really shuffling their feet more than they are doing something. <br />Jethro was helping his nanny's husband by washing windows. The nanny's huband has a business of washing windows and he became sick so Jethro comes in to help him. When Allie sees what's he doing, she assumes that Jethro is poor. She proposes a marriage to Jethro because she's in need of a husband to help her out. In return, he'll get a big check if he agrees. She thinks he'll accept because he's poor, when in actuality he's terribly rich but Jethro marries her, anyway, because he's in love with her. From that point on, it's really a matter of thought. <br />I chose to read this book because the plot seemed interesting and intense. It wasn't. The timing that made everything worthwhile was off and there weren't enough descriptions in the story to make the characters real. Although I do admire Allie's loyalty to her mom but this book is one of the type where you can read on and off and not care.	2002-04-15
US	49193759	RF729WCXPPPF3	0553294903	56990008	Divine Evil	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Disturbingly evil!	First of all I want to warn people who have not read DIVINE EVIL to seriously reconsider about reading this. DIVINE EVIL is not your average horror or mystery. It is full of controversies and blasphemies. There's such things as satanism, murder and rape. Although the last two conditions are sort of expected, the way Nora Roberts play this out is very scary. <br />DIVINE EVIL isn't one of those happily ever after type books so if you guys do plan to read this book, beware. The author leaves you hanging and after I just finished this book, I was just surprised because usually Roberts give you a sense of peace and closure but the author doesn't give you this in DIVINE EVIL.<br />I had a hard time reading this book because the scenes were really violent and chilling but it was also very interesting. I wanted to find out how it ends and how the author would end it because this is a very deep issue in society. But the author doesn't really end it in a satisfying way. Besides the closure, the plot and scense were explained graphically and vividly. So much that you can just play it in your head. <br />But I think people who have a faint heart should not read this book because the book is just really evil.	2002-02-19
US	49193759	R3QIV9LGZOWQSE	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	4	6	N	N	I loved it! A Must Read !	How many times have you ever wished that you never ever have to read another book again or how many times have you wished that books should be banned so that you could watch the TV all day long? Well, enter into Ray Bradbury's world where reading books are illegal, watching TV all day is encouraged and running people over with cars are acceptable.<br />Remember in school, where the brainy kids would always answer the teacher's questions while the rest of us sat behind? The rest of us would always feel dumber and after class we would beat up the brainy kids. It was a no win situation but in this wonderful society, class consisted of - you guessed it - television and more television. But in this world, everyone was made equal, so much equality that practically everyone are mindless zombies.<br />Guy Montag, the protagonist of FAHRENHEIT 451, mindlessly burn books for a living. His profession is being a fireman. What better way to prevent books from making us unhappy, right? Wrong! Everyone that follows the contraband-book-society is miserable. Right off the first few pages, someone wants to kill herself and it turns out to be Montag's wife. <br />Clarisse McClellan enters the picture and she gives Montag a little shove towards the direction of actually making him think for himself. For a moment there, Montag starts to live. He sees nature meaning trees and flowers, you know, that sort of junk people really don't see when their mind and concentration is on the television. McClellan also makes Montag question his lifestyle and happiness. He starts to get upset because he realizes that there is something terribly wrong with how the society works. But don't worry. Before McClellan can complete the transformation of making Montag into a living and breathing person, she gets run over by a car, driven by a bunch of kids. A wonderful world, is it not?<br />Since Montag is stuck in between the phase of being a zombie and being a full fledge person, he looks for help. Althoughhe wants help, he's placing himself in danger, by - be prepared for this - reading books and by talking with Faber, a retired English professor. The journey that awaits Montag would be full of confusion, danger and anger especially when Faber and Beatty have a verbal one-on-one. By the way, Beatty is really Captain Beatty, as in captain of the fire department.	2002-02-01
US	49193759	R7SOGOLFPO1F7	0373243782	647338664	Forbidden Love (Special Edition)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Too Slow for my Liking	I thought that FORBIDDEN LOVE was going too slow and it was a little bit boring. Most of the story was really about Amy's thoughts and memories and there were those few caes where it was Nick's thpughts and his memories. <br />I chose to read this book because in one of the reviews it said that Amy stood up for herself and she became a stronger person. But I really don't see it. I felt really disappointed because that was the main reason why I wanted to read FORBIDDEN LOVE. I love reading books where a character's personality would do a 180 and show that they were someone special. Amy sort of did that but not in the way that was really satisfying.<br />Also another reason why this book was ruined for me was because the reviews in Amazon told the secret of why Nick left Paige, Amy's sister. So if you want to be kept in suspense...don't go past my review.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2002-01-24
US	49193759	RO2ZZZJCYYOEX	0373121075	585294768	Marriage Takeover	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I feel cheated !!	Cassandra was introduced to her fiance's boss, Lang Dalton. She was determined to impress him so that her soon to be husband would get a higher position. Instead Cassandra was set up and blackmailed into marrying Lang. Cassandra wanted to refuse but before she knew it, she was married to the sexy Lang. He was gorgeous, he oozed sex appeal and being seduced by him was very easy but what are his real reasons for marrying Cassandra?<br />I really enjoyed THE MARRIAGE TAKEOVER but the ending ruined it for me. For me, the ending contributes in making the story truly good. Everything was going perfectly fine even up til the last chapter but right up to the last few pages, the story turned sour. It was as if Lee Wilkinson had put all her effort into creating a masterpiece. But at the very last minute she lost her inspiration and just refused to give the story, the great big finale it deserved. I was really disappointed because it truly was a good book.	2002-01-09
US	49193759	R2JZOJTZTEC1A6	0373122098	465648704	Convenient Husband	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Marriage -- for love, sex or convenience?	Tess is about to lose the custody of her precious nephew, Ben and believes that she can't do anything about it. When her best friend, Rafe Farrar drops by her house she cries all over his shoulder. After Tess' crying bout, Rafe puts her to sleep and the next morning Rafe decides to remain with Tess to help her deal with Chloe, her self-centered and conceited neice. <br />Chloe is the biological mother of Ben and has left Ben to Tess after Ben has been born. Except that Chloe now wants Ben back because she's about to be married to Ian, who is NOT the father of Ben. <br />Rafe stays with Tess after Ben has gone off with Ian and Chloe to the zoo because Tess doesn't want to be alone. But that may be a big mistake because she starts to notice how sexy Rafe is and Rafe starts to picture Tess naked. <br />Then disaster strikes and real danger is directed at the custody of Ben. Rafe comes up with the solution that if Tess and him got married then Tess would be able to keep Ben. But how would Tess and Rafe relate to each other? Their communication level is perfect inside the bedroom but what about their relationship outside of it? And who would end up with Ben?<br />A CONVENIENT HUSBAND was really interesting. I congratulate Kim Lawrence on her ability to come up with this plot but what I really hated was her writing style. The author didn't really explain everything clearly and most of the times I had to figure out what was really happening. Because when you think you're in the kitchen, you suddenly end up in some other place and when you think there's a room full of people, there was actually only one person. And that made it harder for me to follow the story because Kim Lawrenece kept out some of the parts. It was as if the story was playing out and Kim Lawrence only wrote down half of what was going on and the other half, you had to figure it out. Besides that, everything was really good and there were a lot of issues going on, so you wouldn't be bored.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2002-01-07
US	49193759	R3P586S4S4BEZJ	0373763484	977108567	Overnight Cinderella	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cinderella and a Scarred Prince Charming!	Duke Merchon was an emotionally scarred man with a lot of burdens and he isolates himself from the world. Cami Jones is a human tornado with a lot of love to give. The first time that Duke and Cami meet, there was instant attraction. Cami was challenged to make Duke smile and to love Duke because of the loneliness he encountered during the early time of his life. Duke tries to resist Cami because he believes that whoever he loved will leave him and he is also scared to bond with Cami. As things progress between them, Duke finds it increasingly hard to resist Cami. And why not? After all, she's Cinderella and he's Prince Charming, under disguise.<br />I loved reading OVERNIGHT CINDERELLA. Cami and Duke really complemented each other. She was the love that he didn't have and Duke was the rock in her life. I liked Cami more than Duke because Duke shyed away from emotions and he was in a constant state of denial. Cami was a woman to be admired because she was really brave and she fought for her love. <br />The part that made OVERNIGHT CINDERELLA good was that Duke did a 180 when he realized that he was going to loose a great treasure. Also, although Cami fought for her love she didn't make herself to be his doormat. She stood up to him and aggressively fought for his love but she also retreated at the right times. I definitley recommend this book to romance readers. This is a book not to be missed out on!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-26
US	49193759	R3F1VVGY3U605V	0373119895	812475228	Winter Bride (Top Author)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	A Waste of Time!	Angie, the butler's daughter have loved Leo Demetrios since she was 13 and at 19, she did something about it. But after a night of passion, Leo left her cold and because of that and some other reasons, she left. Two years later, Angie and her small son (Jake) returns but Leo doesn't realize that Jake is really his son. Leo believe that Jake is his cousin's son, which is far from the truth. Although Leo doesn't realize the truth, it doesn't mean that he never will because Jake is very similar to Leo in behavior and in looks. And if Leo does discover the truth, he would definitely want Angie to be his winter bride.<br />This was the worst book I have ever read that was by Lynne Graham. I have no idea what she was thinking about. THe development of THE WINTER BRIDE stunk big time! Half the time, when Angie was mad, you weren't really sure because suddenly she wouldn't be mad anymore. And I hate Leo's attitude because he's always beating down on Angie by making her feel guilty and calling her all sorts of names, which he doesn't really apologize for. And I hated that too but the thing I hated most was that it was always Angie who had to beg Leo. And what's with that?<br />Anyways, this was a waste of time and I think reading DUARTE'S CHILD is much more enjoyable. And that is also written by Lynne Graham. DIARTE'S CHILD has a similar style to THE WINTER BRIDE but DUARTE'S CHILD has everything that this book lacks. !<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-22
US	49193759	R246HI7G13ZON6	0373121997	613123071	Duarte's Child	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Loved It !!	A pregnant Emily left her husband, Duarte de Monteiro back in Portugal. The reason was because &quot;a friend&quot; told her that after she gives birth to her child, Duarte would take the child away from her. But now Duarte has found Emily and he doesn't plan to let go either his wife nor his son, Jamie and yet he's still angry at her for leaving him. Other factors also play into the problem of their marriage. There was also that &quot;friend&quot; who secretly added poison into their marriage, before their separation. But besides the friend, their relationship have never been the best because Emily was too scared to do anything like standing up for herself. It was only after she came back that she started making some changes. Although Emily has changed and became stronger, is she strong enough to go up against that friend, who has little by little broken up her marriage?<br />I think DUARTE'S CHILD is the best book written by Lynne Graham because although she shows that Emily is the &quot;weak&quot; type, she also shows Emily with some sparks of anger and defiance, which keeps the story rolling. I liked Duarte a lot because he showed a lot of human characteristics. Duarte would act really macho and strong but when he made mistakes, he showed that he was really sorry and he tries to make up for those mistakes. That is what I call human characteristics, the ability to show emotion. <br />I think DUARTE'S CHILD is a fabulous book and I bet Lynne Graham fans would definitely enjoy this one. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-22
US	49193759	RA29YREQ8UQLQ	0060932201	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	1	2	16	N	N	I was freaked out !	I just finished reading HITLER'S NEICE and I have to say that this book creeps me out!! At first, when I borrowed this I thought I could see how Hitler was really like and try to understand how he came into all of this, on a deeper level. But after reading this, I was scared out of my mind. Hitler is pure crazy!! Especially what he forces Geli to do and changes the people around him into more sinister things. <br />HITLER'S NEICE really supports what the textbooks say about him except that this book shows his childish side. In a way, society made him into who he was because he could have been an artist. But because of his passionate nature for the Germans, it might have warped him or maybe he was warp to begin with. But to begin with, there really wasn't much goodness inside of him. He was a sulky, childish, selfish, self-cetered, opportunist brat! And I hope that no one would EVER turn out to be like him because it is tooo evil.	2001-12-11
US	49193759	R1KYWFVXWM09BH	0373036426	918699011	Reluctant Tycoon	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Falling for her Boss !	Sorrel James is a gardener and she hasn't had a job for months because of her previous employer's slanderous lies. At the hint of a job, she travels to an abbey where her prospective boss is Garde Chevenay. Garde hires her, only after investigating her and some persuasion on Sorrel's part. Sorrel is thrilled to get the job because Garde's land is a dream job for her but she recognizes a spark of chemistry between them. She must learn to resist the temptation and oh boy, it is a temptation because he's a hunk! But for the will of her, she must learn, afterall she should know from experience, that being involved with the boss is a bad idea. Look how she's been without a job, for months, after the last time!<br />THE RELUCTANT TYCOON is really confusing. Sometimes when you're reading the book, when you think you're in one place, suddenly you discover that you're really in another place. It's like the book moves without you and it doesn't tell you when it decides to move and that leave you standing on air. That's one thing I really hate, plus there were some word mix-ups that forces you to figure out what the author was really trying to say. Besides this, THE RELUCTANT TYCOON is interesting but not to the point where you have the urgent need to find out what happens to Sorrel and Garde.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-08
US	49193759	REQFBDRBJK761	0373387083	915839643	From Boss To Bridegroom (The Coltons)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Arrogant Attorney Meets his Match!	Rand Colton is arrogant, strict and overbearing but he is a prestigous attorney and is used to getting whatever he wants, until he met Lucy Lowry. Lucy agreed to be his secretary only as a favor to her aunt. Lucy quickly laid down the ground rules for becoming his secretary, that the job would only be from 9 to 5. After all, she has a son to take care of and to spend time with. Rand was shocked but agreed because he was desparate for a good secretary. <br />Rand and Lucy work well together because Lucy could do anything he ask for and she stands her ground when they argue. Another good point, so she shows that the world doesn't revolve around Rand. As they work together, they discover that they're attracted to each other but they're both reluctant to pursue it and they each have their own reasons. Rand's reason is that he doesn't think he has the capability to devote all his time to family and Lucy's reason is that one, she doesn't trust any man, after the father of her son ran away when he discovered she was pregnant and two, she doesn't want to become Rand's passing lover. <br />They also work together to uncover an imposter that may be residing in the Colton household, the place where Rand's father lives in. The imposter has made an attempt to kill some of the family members and Rand discovers some interesting facts. I am definitely reading the next book, which is PASSION'S LAW to discover what would happen to that imposter. <br />I finished reading this book in about a day, at all crazy hours because FROM BOSS TO BRIDEGROOM is so interesting. I kept on wanting to find out what would happen between Rand and Lucy and would their reasons change for each other. I am really not disappointed with this book and the Colton series so far. I recommend the Colton series and FROM BOSS TO BRIDEGROOM to those who like romances that continue. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-06
US	49193759	R22J94WOWOFU6Y	0263167658	935106324	The Playboy in Pursuit	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Was Marriage on his Mind?	Val Seymour is a playboy, and who could blame him? He's rich and he's hot! Well, Lucille refuses to fall for his act, after her disastrous marriage to a creep. But words are easier said than done because there is an unmistakeable chemistry between them. After all, Val is the first man to arouse any emotion inside of her, since her marriage to the pig and her marriage ended 2 years ago! Lucille is convinced that Val just wants a quick roll in the hay or more than one roll but Val is out for more and the challenge is to make Lucille believe in him....but would she?<br />THE PLAYBOY IN PURSUIT is my favorite out of THE AUSTRALIAN PLAYBOYS series. To me, I could relate to Lucille more than to the other characters in the other books and Lucille seems a lot more practical than her friends, whom were the main character in the other books. I also found the ending to THE PLAYBOY IN PURSUIT more interesting and complete. But my advice is to read accordingly because if you read the series without order, the fun of it just sorts of decrease.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-12-06
US	49193759	R2TJHY9W8635VS	0553578960	468818654	The Accidental Bride (Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Good!!	I love Phoebe in THE ACCIDENTAL BRIDE because she could ruffle up her husband, Cato with her actions and remarks. Cato is like an airhead to anything besides war and it seems that only Phoebe could snap him back to the real world. <br />Another thing I love about Phoebe is that she chose to change herself when she didn't get the attention from Cato. Her older sister, Diana is practically a goddess and Phoebe is the exact opposite (but Phoebe is pretty). Diana fits into this scheme of things because Diana was first married to Cato but she died and now Phoebe takes her place. Phoebe doesn't have the grace or the clothes to attract attention to herself so she asks a friend, Portia to help her. (Portia is from the first &quot;Brides&quot; triology book, THE HOSTAGE BRIDE) And Portia does help Phoebe! After a shopping trip and a few good words of advice, Phoebe attracts the attention of her husband and more! <br />Their &quot;bedroom activity&quot; is very sensual. Before Phoebe's transformation, their scene would be quick because Cato would hurry up and finish his business. But after Phoebe's transformation, she became more creative in bed because she always felt that making love wasn't supposed to be so cold. And the pages do heat up!<br />I had no regret reading THE ACCIDENTAL BRIDE and I recommend it to those who enjoy a good strong romance of a woman with a loving and brave heart. I can't wait to read the next book in the triology, which is about Olivia, a shy and awkward woman in THE LEAST LIKELY BRIDE.<br />^_^ ~ Izzy	2001-12-06
US	49193759	R270YIPFTW0L65	0515125628	272067692	The Target (An FBI Thriller)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too Blunt to be an Awesome Mystery	GOOD PART ABOUT THE BOOK: <BR>It was interesting, good plot and it went on a fast pace.<br />BAD PART ABOUT THE BOOK:<BR>There was no suspense. Coulter laid down the story in a straight-forward way and it didn't let you think and worry what's going to happen. The character's dialogue is too blunt and there's no secrecy in the book and one thing I really hated was how the characters had to state their feelings instead of the reader &quot;feel&quot; what the characters felt. Another thing was that the dialogue was really blunt and everything just came out of the mouths of the character. If they were feeling a certain way, they would just say it and I don't think that, that would have made a good suspense because it's like popping the balloon before it has even been blown. <br />I really hope that Coulter could improve her writing style because although her ideas are really interesting, Coulter doesn't do the ideas justice with her straight forwardness.	2001-11-28
US	49193759	R1XSYCQAFXJWQA	0373036698	986823646	Marriage Test (To Have And To Hold) (Romance, 3669)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Marriage Under Fire	Sara Blackstone left her husband when she discovered that work always came before her. And she walked away, but she didn't know she was pregnant with her husband's child.<br />6 months later when Alec, the husband, was forced to take a vacation due to a car accident, he meets her in the cabin he was staying at. Which turned out to be the cabin she was staying at too. Alec was definitely surprised and shocked to see her pregnant, angry too for her not telling him. (It's 6 months, it has to show!) They're occupying the same cabin for the vacation and maybe this vacation would be enough to patch up what was wrong in their marriage. <br />I liked THE MARRIAGE TRIAL because Alec and Sara did things, instead of staying in one scene. They went hiking, fishing and did all sorts of things. But I really didn't like the ending, it was left too open and I'm wondering if their relationship would be constant. After all, she left him once, what is stopping her from leaving again?	2001-11-20
US	49193759	RTT0B7M2QAMFN	0373121830	592554175	Determined Husband (Red Hot Revenge)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Flame from the Past	Sera left Keir Sutherlands when she thought that he was being unfaithful to her and didn't want her anymore. Now Keir reappears when Sera is about to marry another guy. Keir makes it plain that he wants Sera back. He believed that Sera left him because he was poor at that time and the guy she's about to marry (Martin) was much richer than him. But now since Keir made some smart investments, he's richer than Martin and he wants Sera back. Sera refuses, not because she doesn't love him but because of what has happened with Martin. She believes that she has wronged Martin and is going to fix it by marrying him but now that Keir has arrived, he plans to unravel the lies to let the truth come out, to free Sera and to get her back...<br />Well...I know that the title of this book was correctly chosen. Keir was determined to get Sera, even if he wasn't the husband.<br />I enjoyed THE DETERMINED HUSBAND because Keir would maneuver Sera into doing things she didn't want to do. I wouldn't call it overbearing because he was doing it for her good. Keir was like her knight in shining armour when she was trapped in her engagement with Martin and I'm glad that Keir freed her. It was especially smart of Sera when she manipulated Keir into saying how he really felt about her, in the end. I enjoyed reading THE DETERMINED HUSBAND and it was just great, although something keeps it from being an excellent read.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-11-11
US	49193759	R12FKH9T79NHRB	0373036396	502127662	Baby Discovery (Bachelor Dads)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Baby Gift	Zane Boderick found a small bundle, while he was checking the site of his project. He thought it was a kitty but it turned out to be a recently delivered baby boy! He quickly rushed to the hospital, adn met Meg Richins, the nurse that happened to be there. Both of them instantly fell in love with the baby and when the baby was physically better, social services came to ship the baby off to foster care. But Zane intervened to adopt the baby, which he has called Johnny and proposed to Meg. But did Meg really want to marry a stranger, even if he was caring, compassionate, and handsome? Although she longed to have children of her own, was Johnny the answer to her problem and what about Zane?<br />THE BABY DISCOVERY is the third and last book of the &quot;Bachelor Dads&quot; series. I seriously can't say which book I love the most out of this series. Zane is really wonderful, especially Meg. Meg seems perfect because she's caring, sensitive, adventurous, full of love and modest too. Although she's marred because of her problem and that's one spot that I didn't really like but she can't be perfect. THE BABY DISCOVERY is highly recommendable but &quot;Bachelor Dads&quot; is a really good series and I'm sure readers would enjoy. (The first book is THE BILLIONAIRE AND THE BABY and the second book is HIS VERY OWN BABY)<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-11-08
US	49193759	R3468VH9AKTRJ3	0373121342	108715081	The Playboy's Virgin (Australian Playboys)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Tempted by a Rural Girl!	Harry Wilde needs to transfer Tanya into a socialite, so he'll be able to save this company, which would ultimately save his friend's investments. Tanya needs the transfer because she's from the rural part of Sydney and her appearance is more likely to scare people than to boost the company. But as Harry spends more time with Tanya, he discovers the Tanya beyonds the looks and he know he is in trouble when he starts to see pass her ugly dye job and starts seeing a beautiful woman underneath the skin. This is a big no no because he's always against marriage and committment, but suddenly he's thinking all about these stuff. Uh-oh...<br />THE PLAYBOY'S VIRGIN is the second book in the series &quot;The Australian PLayboy&quot; and I didn't really enjoy this book because Harry was so fickle. He wasn't sure what he wanted and when he got what he wanted, he decided he wanted something else. Really fickle and hard to please but I guess this weakness is made up for the fact as how nicely he treats Tanya. Although the first part of her make-over weren't really for her benefit.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-11-08
US	49193759	R19STL7X6SNQM6	0373121288	922700077	The Playboy's Proposition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Masquerade that may turn out to be more...	Michele and Tyler Garrison knew each other since college and although they bicker a lot, they've been there for each other. That's why Tyler agreed to play the role as Michele's boyfriend, to attend Michele's ex's wedding to another woman. During the day of the wedding, Michele almost forgot that Tyler was supposed to be her pretend boyfriend, because he was playing the part so well. With the little touches and those special looks but Michele can't forget that Tyler is the most eligible playboy, and there's no way he'd truly want her...could he?<br />THE PLAYBOY'S PROPOSITION is the first of &quot;The Australian Playboys&quot; series. I liked the story because it had strong characters, but I thought the resolution was a little bit too icky. One thing I liked was how Michele and Tyler talked to each other. Their conversations were snappy and witty, it wasn't filled up with boring and shy comments. That's one thing to look forward to but like I said, I thought the resolution wasn't really finely planned.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-11-08
US	49193759	R2K19ILW7RNF35	0373121865	355638364	Yesterday and Forever	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Indecent Proposal!	Daniel Thorpe walked into an empty art studio and sees Miranda Stuart naked! He assumes that she's the mistress of the person who owns the studio and he can't be farther from the truth! It turns out that Miranda was posing to get some extra money and the owner was late but Daniel doesn't listen to this. Daniel drags her off to a restaurant to feed her when Miranda was about to faint from starvation and during her meal, Daniel looks down on her on her supposed profession as being a prostitute. Then he proposes that she become his Aunt Sylvia's companion. She agrees only when he blackmails her through her friends. Daniel takes Miranda to Paris and Miranda starts to worry because besides being Sylvia's companion, he plans to sleep with her!<br />I found YESTERDAY AND FOREVER to be a good read. Damiel has his problems and he could be very overbearing but I guess the hero can't be perfect. Miranda has spirit and it shows when she slaps him and in her drawings. I found myself hooked in the beginning when they first met and I got a little bit turned off when Daniel seems to turn hot and cold sometimes, especially when he seems to win against Miranda in every little way. But YESTERDAY AND FOREVER is a good read. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-11-08
US	49193759	RG1E53211CSF2	0373121695	293212266	The Demetrios Virgin (Greek Tycoons) (Harlequin Presents, 2169)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Very very good !!	Saskia Rodgers met Andreas Latimer in a club where she was forced to play this hussy, to spy for her friend. Saskia thought he was her friend's husband and Andreas thought she was those promiscuous females. He rejects her when Saskia practically throws herself onto him. The next morning it turns out that Andreas was to be her new boss. Yikes! Andreas hold the scence in the club over her and blackmails her into playing the part of his fiancee, to present to his Greek grandfather and to escape from marrying his cousin, Athena. <br />The only glitch in his plans is that Andreas think Saskia is a &quot;woman of the world&quot; when she's only a virgin! And she's forced to share a room with him in his family's villa, but how are you supposed to tell somebody that you're a virgin!<br />I love THE DEMETRIOS VIRGIN. This book belongs in the series Greek Tycoon and whoever normally enjoys books from this series would definitely enjoy this one. I liked how Athena would throw an occasional wrench in Andreas and Saskia's relationship because Athena may think that's keeping them apart when it really pulls them together. The one thing that I hated was how Andreas would always mention &quot;Because I'm Greek&quot; or &quot;That's the Greek side of me&quot;. I hated comments like that but other than that, THE DEMETRIOS VIRGIN is very enjoyable!	2001-11-07
US	49193759	R2DTAS52DNVHE0	0373244169	139616212	Millionaire In Disguise (Special Edition, 1416)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Was she a Mirage or a Miracle?	Lexie Grayson stopped her pickup truck to help out Nikos Santorini with his T-bird and they had a lotta fun that afternoon, talking about cars. And they had more fun when they got to her place and Nikos spent a night. But all was not well when they woke up because Nikos was the formiddable boss of this big company. Lexie believed that Nikos stole her best-friend's creation and Nikos believed that Lexie was spying on his company for an enemy. They can't avoid each other because they have to work together and it's hard to work together because when they're together, the sparks begin to sizzle and things start to happen to them. <br />I think MILLIONAIRE IN DISGUISE is really good because of Lexie. Lexie is full on contradictions and you could see that Lexie and Nikos is good for each other. Lexie is like a breath of fresh air for Nikos and Nikos is the strong man that for Lexie. <br />One thing I would like to see take place is a conclusion for Nikos' sister Ariana. In MILLIONAIRE IN DISGUISE, Ariana is a weak but interesting character. She was held captive by Nikos' enemy and she's escaped but she's described as *the ghost of her former self* and I would like to see the author create a story for Ariana, where she finds herself again.	2001-11-05
US	49193759	R3UEF7Q0W7NMUT	0373121784	612673135	Claiming His Wife (Latin Lovers)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Determined Husband	(...)I found CLAIMING HIS WIFE to be a passionate read. I liked the change in Cassie because it made her able to face her husband, then running scared like she used to. It was enjoyable but I didn't like it that Cassie was the one who always seemed to express herself. Roman was like high up there in the pedestal and I would like to see him lower himself more often and to display some more weaknesses. He seems so impenetrable, but it does show some parts where Roman wasn't sure of himself or when he was jealous and those were my favorite parts because it made him seem more human. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-28
US	49193759	R1YBJB81B0Z018	0373036345	169871156	Sheikh'S Reward (Romance, 3634)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Desert Bride	Frances Callam brought Sheikh Ali Ben Saleem luck while he was gambling. He offered Frances money and jewels for her luck but she refused. The one thing that Frances really wanted was an interview with Ali for an article she was writing. He agreed, on one condition: that she was willing to go back with his to his homeland. Frances agreed but when she arrived, she found out that she was to be one of Ali's concubines! So what was an American journalist going to do witha gorgeous sheikh?<br />THE SHEIKH'S REWARD is a good read, although I sometimes felt that Ali was too arrogant and overbearing. But I liked Frances because her temper matched his and she wasn't afraid of him. They had these verbal battles that was really comical!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-27
US	49193759	RYHCSFN6ATOJI	037312094X	642051569	Mistress for a Night (Harlequin Presents 2094) (Do Not Disturb)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A Night to Remember	7 years ago, Georgia slipped into Jason's room and they had one night of passion. 7 years later, they're reunited by the death of their stepfather. Georgia has grown up, she used to be this chubby teenager that had no cofidence and no self-esteem. Now she's a confident and beautiful woman. Jason is determined to find out what happened to their baby, because he knew Georgia was pregnant even if that meant following her everywhere and spending time with her everyday and night.<br />I didn't really enjoy MISTRESS FOR A NIGHT because there was too much miscommunication and there wasn't any happy moments throughout the book. It was really depressing until the very last moment but by that time it ruined my whole mood. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-27
US	49193759	R319E353FBN6M0	0373122012	667268388	Mistress By Contract	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not a Disappointing Read !!	Mikayla was willing to give herself to Rafael Velez-Aquilera, as long as Rafael was willing to drop the debts her father owe him. And Rafael did drop the charges against her father, when Mikayla agreed to be his mistress for 15 months. But how was Mikayla going to be his mistress, when she doesn't even know how to be one and since she's also a virgin!<br />This was one Helen Bianchin book that wasn't a disappointment! I read some of her other works and it really sucked but this one was the bomb. I think what got to me was the caring side that Rafael showed to Mikayla when Mikayla was having some problems. Mikayla was a gem for Rafael because Rafael was too cynic and she wasn't the standard women he used to go out with. I recommend this book to readers that normally enjoy Helen Bianchin's books and trust me, MISTRESS BY CONTRACT is very enjoyable and sweet. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-26
US	49193759	R2P1O54YUWDB8J	0373387075	824386468	The Coltons: The Doctor Delivers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Highly Satisfying !	Liza Colton was a singer and she lost her voice because of stress, her mother's pushiness and from the disappearance of her beloved cousin, Emily. She finds herself in Dr. Nick Hathaway's hands when she went to a doctor to cure her throat. Next thing she knows, she's living with Nick because someone threatened her with a big, sharp knife (The partner of the person who kidnapped Emily) because they think Liza knows where Emily is. (Emily went into hiding) They have this mutual attraction but Nick refuses to believe in it because he was emotionally damaged by his marriage to his first wife. He also thinks that Liza is like his first wife, when in actuality they're as different as pickles and cabbages.<br />THE DOCTOR DELIVERS is the other part to I MARRIED A SHEIK. And like the previous book, THE DOCTOR DELIVERS shows a bit of Emily's story and it's really smart how the author would keep you hooked to the book. <br />THE DOCTOR DELIVERS is a very good read and I recommend this to readers who like stories that are in series. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-25
US	49193759	R1JWO8QZXP6F8B	0373036302	739227546	Sheikh'S Bride	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love Under the Desert Stars	Leonora Groom and Sheikh Amer el-Barbary met in Cairo and they had one spectacular date under the stars. But the next day, Leonora was forced to leave Cairo, by the order of her dad. Amer went crazy for 6 months because he was unable to find her because at the time when he met her, she gave him another name, not Leonora Groom. He decided to teach her a lesson by writing an essay about their night together and about his experience of losing her and his plan on seducing her. But the plan backfired and caused her to be engaged to another man! Now they will figure out this whole mess and what they truly mean to each other. Is it a game or is it love ?<br />I liked Leonora because she drove Alik crazy and she didn't let him control her or defeat her. She was really feisty but towards the end, I didn't like her as much because she became a little bit too much. One thing I don't understand is that how Leonora could stand up to a Sheikh but she couldn't stand up to her father. Her father was over-bearing and he pushed Leonora around and she didn't even do anything about it. That got me so mad. <br />Together Leonora and Alik are very comical. Alik expects people to obey him but Leonora don't even care and does whatever she wants and doesn't play into his hands. Which was one of the reasons I loved her so much. <br />THE SHEIKH'S BRIDE is not your typical romance, where all the characters are beautiful and sophisicated. A delight and a good read!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-21
US	49193759	R21W007R9WIMGX	0373036353	794734081	His Very Own Baby (Bachelor Dads) (Romance, 3635)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Alik + Blaire + Nicky = Perfect Family &amp; Love	Blaire left Alik Jarman about a year ago but she didn't tell him why. She only created an excuse that said she was too young for him. Now Blaire suddenly springs up and surprises Alik with a 6-week old son (Nicky) that they have created, one very long night ago. After Blaire told Alik about Nicky's exsistence she wanted to disappear again but Alik wouldn't let her and he givers her an ultimatum: either live with him for a month or he'll battle her for full custody of Nicky. Not willing to take the risk, Blaire decides to live with Alik for a month, but it's going to be a very long month because Blaire still loves Alik and she's hiding a secret. The secret that forced her to leave Alik a year ago!<br />This is the second book in the series *Bachelor Dads* and I already read the first one which is THE BILLIONAIRE AND THE BABY and I really can't say which one is better. HIS VERY OWN BABY is very different from THE BILLIONAIRE AND THE BABY because usually when authors write, you could tell that there's a similarity in the characters and in the plot. But this time Rebecca Winters created totally different characters and totally different plots, I can't wait to read the third book (THE BABY DISCOVERY which tells the story of Zane. <br />I know I really enjoyed HIS VERY OWN BABY. I liked Alik's mother, who was the evil force. She created a lot of problems but most of all I liked Nicky because although his role was small, he was always there. I think it's especially smart of how Rebecca Winters would dangle a piece of information about one of the friends and in a way (at least for me) it would make you want to read the next book. <br />By the way, Alik, Zane and Dominic (the hero from the first book) are all best-friends. They met over a dream of building a bullet train across the country and they became instantaneous friends. If you readers want to really enjoy the full pleasure of the series *Bachelor Dads*, then I suggest reading the first book and going by order becausethe books connect. And it'll just be funner to read in that order. Toodles!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-18
US	49193759	R83C8O5JYMEJU	0373121822	8834745	The Arabian Mistress	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I know I enjoyed this !	I see very different opinions, but I can deffinitely say that I loved THE ARABIAN MISTRESS. True, it was wrong of Prince Tariq Shazad ibn Zachir to accuse Faye of being a gold-digger, but I think it made it more interesting because Faye had to &quot;earn&quot; back his trust. Although it was good to watch Tariq feel like an idiot, once he finds out how wrong he was. <br />I didn't think Faye was being weak because Tariq needs that warm and loving person, which was Faye. Although Faye really was NOT a weak character because while they were about to make love, Faye kept on throwing out insults to Tariq. And she knows that Tariq didn't like the comments she was makiing. <br />Well...I thought Faye was sacrificing herself too much for her family. Her family treats her like dirt. The only family that she has is her stepfather, Percy, who is a real pig and Adrian who takes her for granted. Faye gave up herself to be Tariq's mistress to save her brother and her brother didn't even know about it! I hated her family but I guessed they created the elements that suited the book. All in all, I can deffinitely say that I have not regretted reading THE ARABIAN MISTRESS. <br />^_^ ~ Izzy	2001-10-17
US	49193759	R1OY9F90BV7W45	0373121334	650614920	Innocent Sins (Harlequin Presents, 2133)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	It started out okay but....	INNOCENT SINS started out really good and I was always in suspense, wanting to know what happened and how did Grif (Laura's father) really die but then towards the end, INNOCENT SINS just wasn't able to hold up, and then my interest just died off. And the ending wasn't smooth, Anne Mather didn't know how to tie up Laura and Oliver's story. <br />Laura Neil is in Wales because her father died, Oliver (Laura's stepbrother) is also in Wales because his stepfather died. They had one passionate night before Oliver left Wales and went to Europe. And because of that there was always some sort of miscommunication. Laura's stepmother and Oliver's mother, Stella doesn't make it easy for them because she's trying to destroy their relationship and she lies a lot. Especially about her story, the night she found Griff dead. So Laura and Oliver tries to find out what happened that night and also if they have another chance with each other.	2001-10-13
US	49193759	R1EYNTZCP2WOZI	0373121415	939496909	A Yuletide Seduction	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Perfect Love Story	She's known as Jane Smith and she has the life that suits her just fine. A catering job that she owns, an apartment and most importantly her freedom. But one night while she was in the kitchen doing her job a man from her past shows up: Gabriel Vaughan. Luckily Gabe doesn't recognize Jane, which is a good thing because the last time they saw each other, it was when their faces were plastered all over the newspaper, three years ago. Now Jane is trying very hard to avoid Gabe because he makes her nervous and breathless at the same time, but it's not working since Gabe is very interested in Jane. <br />I think Carole Mortimer has wrotten very beautifully for A YULETIDE SEDUCTION because everything in this was complete and perfect. The suspense was drawn out perfectly, the characters were perfect, even their problems were created perfectly! I loved Jane because she wasn't a weak character but an independent and strong character. Gabe was also a good character, very caring and loving. I think I would read more of Carole Mortimer's work because, based on A YLETIDE SEDUCTION, Carole seems to be a very good writer. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-13
US	49193759	R3ESHYKL8DR17V	0373121512	738663731	Blackmailed Bridegroom (Latin Lovers)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It's not what it seems to be...	Antonio Sanletti was faced with a proposition: either marry the boss's daughter and get promoted into becoming a CEO or get fired. Antonio hates being blackmailed, but he doesn't want to loose his job. He also doesn't want to be with the boss's daughter, Paige Fortune, who he thinks is really promiscuous. He decides to pursue her, marry her, get the CEO job then divorce her. But this is Paige we're talking about here, so things don't go as planned.<br />Paige Fortune doesn't care that she has a reputation of being easy and the body to show for it. All she's looking for is someone to love her, unlike her father who has ignored her for most of her life. When Antonio starts to show how he cares about her, she scoffs at it because she remembers the incident that happened by the pool a long time ago...<br />What I liked most about this was that Miranda Lee shows both Paige and Anonio's side of the story. That's what I liked most (among other things) because usually there's only one point of the story and you're wondering what's going on the other person's head and things like that. But in this one, you had a clear view on most of everyone. Even Evelyn, the evil housekeeper who's jealous of Paige and tries to make her life miserable. Although I liked how things were developed, I felt the ending was rushed. Miranda Lee could have ended it in a few more pages, but all in all I really enjoyed THE BLACKMAILED BRIDEGROOM.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-03
US	49193759	R24D53YAYAOSDO	0373036655	649201709	Husband For A Year (To Have And To Hold) (Romance, 3665)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	simply the best romance ever !	I love HUSBAND FOR A YEAR !! The foremost is that the story pass out on weeks, like time is given for their romance and nothing is rushing their love.<br />Stefanie has been married to Gabe for a year, but it was a marriage of convenience. And according to that contract, they would only stay together for a year. Gabe needed this marriage of convenience because his father was a politician and Gabe was always receiving all sorts of pressure to try to become a president, when all along Gabe wanted to be something else. So when Gabe set Stefanie free, Gabe went away to start on his dream.<br />Little did Gabe know that Stefanie was following him, and this time Stefanie didn't want a marriage of convenience but a marriage to last forever and forever!<br />I think the part I loved most was Stefanie's character. She had the determination to follow Gabe and to face any hardship or obstacle that kept Gabe and her apart. She was also sensitive and caring, which provided the right elements in helping Gabe along with his dream. Stefanie was really wonderful, she stuck by him and was willing to endure anything! <br />Another part that I liked most was that their romance played out and you could just picture how this relationship would last. Sigh....it was really sweet for me and I have to say that this is the best Harlequin I've read, so far. I think HUSBAND FOR A YEAR ranks somewhere on top of the list that I dubbed as *Simply Unforgettable*<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-10-02
US	49193759	R27TRHT1VNE95I	0373121067	354566404	The Tycoon's Bride (The Greek Tycoons) (Harlequin Presents, 2106)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	very very good !	I didn't find THE TYCOON'S BRIDE boring. It had a good plot and a very good ending. I think what made it really good for me was the ending because there were some parts to it that was kinda boring and idiotic. <br />Claire Stenson met Andreas Markopoulou by accident after getting hit by a van. He decides to take care of her and her baby sister, Melanie. (Claire's mother died about two weeks after giving birth to Melanie) Andreas then propose that they get married because he wants to fulfill his grandmother's wish of holding her great-grandchild before she dies. Claire decides to go along with his plan, because after all she's benefiting from this deal to and she doesn't even have enough money to take care of herself, let alone a baby. But her agreeing to the deal is really for Melanie's sake. They travel to meet Andreas' grandmother, in Athens, where the wedding would take place and where the deception is going to take place.<br />During Claire's time spent in Athens, Claire learns more and more about Andreas. About the man underneath the cool exterior and the self-control. <br />THE TYCOON'S BRIDE, in my opinion wasn't boring because the ending balanced out the parts that were bad in the book. I deffinitely loved the ending, usually the endings to some books are kinda disappointing but this was left me happy. I totally enjoyed THE TYCOON'S BRIDE and I hope that other readers will also enjoy reading this book!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-30
US	49193759	R1LE9ER8ET71CE	0373035985	724055367	Taming The Boss (Marrying The Boss) (Romance, 3598 : Marrying the Boss)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a really good read	Marcie MacLean is a temp in the company Temporarily Yours and she has been assigned to this company where 5 temps have already been fired. When she arrives to the company, she meets Jake Campbell, the boss of the company. And the man who had fired her 5 years ago under false pretenses. Together they work together, because Jake deparately needs help and Marcie desparately needs the money. And as they work together, Jake starts to appreciate Marcie's efficiency, character and something more. Then Jake wonders if he had made a mistake 5 years ago in firing her...<br />TAMING THE BOSS was a really good read because they naturally hate each other but then they have to change their perspective of each other because they find out more about each other. Personally, I love these kind of books and TAMING THE BOSS was no exception. It was a really short read for me because I kept wanting to know what happened and how it ended and I promise to you fellow readers, you would really not be disappointed!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-29
US	49193759	R1I17N0B65JBY2	0373121458	505948422	Spanish Husband (Presents Passion)	Books	3	14	19	N	N	50-50 good and bad	Caroline Newbury fell in love with Luiz Vazquez but then she left him, when she thought Luiz betrayed her. Seven years later Luiz offer a tempting offer: marry him to save her father. Her father has a gambling problem and he owes a lot of money to people and to banks and one of the people he owe money to is Luiz Vazquez. Caroline is forced to accept because she knows that she's unable to pay off all that money when Luiz could. Unknowingly, Luiz chosed her to be his bride to secure his inheritance, but are there more to this marriage then mutual benefits? What about the love Caroline had for him 7 years ago?<br />I wouldn't say this was a good and easy read because there are some pretty serious issues here. Like Caroline's father's gambling habits. You wonder when is he ever going to stop and if he will stop. Then there is Luiz's background to deal with, his other half of the family. I like Caroline thoguh, cause she seems strong but I didn't really like Luiz because he's too closed off. He doesn't communicate that well with Caroline. He's always distant and quiet, but I guess that's supposed to be who he is. <br />If time was to turn back, to the time if I wanted to read THE SPANISH HUSBAND or not. I think I would have prefered not to read it. Don't get me wrong, this wasn't really a bad book. I enjoyed some parts of it, I just didn't enjoy the whole of the story. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-29
US	49193759	R3FNXTTW0TQSUW	0451202600	423542294	The Rake's Fiancee (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	remember the love	Ben wanted revenge on Phoebe when Phoebe left him 8 years ago. She left him because she thought that Ben was a rake and now Phoebe is a factory worker and Ben has land and a title. By chance, they meet together in bed. They were snowed in together so for the next few days they were stuck together. But Ben has this scheme to make her pay for the pain she caused him. He makes up a story about how he had amnesia and forgot about the past, a convenient way to take revenge on Phoebe. But the problem is that the revenge plan would backfire and he would remember why he had loved Phoebe 8 years ago...<br />Also incorporated into this story is a mystery. The furniture and the prized possesions in Ben's family home all disappeared save for some not so glamorous chairs and tables. Where has all the furniture gone and what's with Ben's dotty old aunt who believes there are ghosts in the house ? Read to find out!<br />I enjoyed this book, the story and the plot. I love how everything played out but I didn't rate it with a 5 (it really could have been a 5 but i didn't) because it ended too quickly. The setting, the plot, the scemes and the characters were all played out very beautifully but I found the ending to be bum-rushed, as if the printing press, editor or author were trying to finish up THE RAKE'S FIANCEE quickly and to just sell it off. <br />The characters were most deffinitely most fun to read, especially Ben because he's so devillish and Phoebe with her elegance and dignity. So enjoy this tale with the delight I had while reading THE RAKE'S FIANCEE !!<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-27
US	49193759	R3IUFSPDX8ZBTO	0373387067	357402239	I Married a Sheik (The Coltons)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	really really romantic !!	Sheik Ali El-Etra is the owner of this big and successful company and he meets Faith Martin, when the computers in his company goes haywire. Faith is passionate and real, she doesn't care about his title, power or money and that's a great difference from the women Ali hangs out with. So it's only normal that Ali is attracted to Faith and Faith is attracted to Ali because of his kindness, his generosity and his sexiness.<br />It all happened one night, when Ali's parents showed up in the restaurant, where they (Faith and Ali) were eating dinner, that Ali announced Faith and him were engaged, much to Faith's surprise. But Faith doesn't ruin Ali's scheme because she knows Ali is doing it out of the love for his parents. Now they're in a pretend engagement, with pretend love for each other but what if underneath all this fakeness, there's a chance for a real engagement and a chance for real love?<br />I loved how Sharon De Vita included other characters in this story that wasn't really relevant but relevant in the next book. It's like to hook readers up into reading the next book and I have to admit, it worked really well! I plan on reading the next book THE DOCTOR DELIVERS as soon as I could get my hands on it. <br />Also I loved Ali and Faith! They were so perfect for each other. If Ali has a character flaw, Faith would make up for it and vice versa. One of my favorite parts was when Ali's mom get mad at him and his mom shows that spark. It was really funny and I simply enjoyed this book !!!	2001-09-25
US	49193759	R27NJJ8XZYNNG8	0380819066	595146467	The Bad Man's Bride: Marrying Miss Bright	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A sizzling love...	Anthea Bright came from Philadelphia to Haven, Kansas to become a school teacher. On her first week of school, Gabriel Jackson barges into the school and demands to know what the Hell she's teaching because his charge, Lily isn't learning how to read and write. From that moment on, they'll both be fighting a very captivating attraction. It doesn't make it easier that Gabriel has this bad boy reputation and that he's the pariah of the town. (It's one of those small towns where everyone gossips about everyone)<br />The story takes place in the 1885 and it really is a wonderful read! My favorite parts were when Gabriel, Anthea and Lily act as a family. (Lily is like an orphan and Gabriel picked her up and decides to care for her) I like reading THE BAD MAN'S BRIDE because it's a historical romance (sort of) with a lot of spice in it. Usually in historical romances, the characters would be meek and kind of quiet but this romance has a lot of spice in it! <br />I know there's another book that continues this one. It's called THE MOST WANTED BACHELOR and I'm thinking about reading it because THE MOST WANTED BACHELOR features Anthea's sister, Kathryn. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-23
US	49193759	R2WE7C8QV4AY6E	1551668556	66831105	The Charm School	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This is SOOOO good !!!	I just finished reading THE CHARM SCHOOL and I loved it. I'm really not exaggerating. This tale is like CINDERELLA mixed in with THE UGLY DUCKLING. <br />Isadora Peabody was brain smart but she was really nothing since she's not society smart, as in the social graces. Also she's not really pretty, so with all that added up Isadora becomes the outsider. She's really depressed, which isn't surprising and has even wanted to kill herself! Then she encounters Ryan Calhoun, the captain of the Silver Swan. Ryan needed an interpreter and if he doesn't get one, he'll be in really hot water. Isadora finds out about this and basically forces her way into becoming an interpreter. After all Isadora knows several different languages and wanted to escape from the misery in her life.<br />Ryan deeply resents this and tries to make her life a living Hell on the ship. But it doesn't work because after leaving home, Isadora opens up to the crew. She listens to them, talks to them, helps them out and even enjoys working on the ship. Underneath all this, Isadora blossoms and learns to become a full person, who wasn't always afraid and depressed. With this confidence, she may even learn to trust the love she's feeling for a certain captain...<br />I can't stop mentioning how much I love this book!! I was drawn to this book because I love reading about women that undergo a make-over. Not necessarily clothes, but personality wise like their confidence. And that's why I loved reading THE CHARM SCHOOL because it's a make-over for Isadora in which she becomes more comfortable with herself. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-21
US	49193759	RQ5M91NVE13IU	0373121083	791944533	Forbidden Pleasure (Harlequin Presents, No 2108)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	has a little bit too much imagination	Ianthe Brown went on a vacation to recover from an accident. She meets Alex Considine and sparks fly. There's this mutual sexual attraction but both of them try to resist it because they know there's no hope. Alex is a millionaire because he created a very profitable computer company and Ianthe is a marine biologist that had recently began to work on film. Already that is an obstacle for them to overcome but wait there's more....because Alex is the lost Crown Prince of Illyria.<br />I didn't like this story too much because it seems so far fetched. I like my romances to be based on reality more, so then the story could take place more easily in my mind. Generally, I guess this was okay. There was passion and romance in this book but the only thing that turned me off was that the story seemed so unrealistic, although I did like the Crown Prince part.	2001-09-21
US	49193759	R105D1BN7YFQSU	0821767224	692367885	His Lordship's Swan (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a warm and humorous tale	Lord Evan Trent had to get married and he flipped a coin to decide between the pair of Swann twins. The coin told him that he was to marry the older twin and he asked for the *eldest Swann* daughter. So instead of getting one of the twins, Evan gets the older sister of the twins, Lydia. (Lydia is old enough to become a spinster and she's still single.) <br />Neither of them wants to get married to each other so Lydia proposes that she live in his home for 2 weeks under the pretense of *Getting to know each other* and during those 2 weeks, she'll try to secure the affections of her cousin, Sebastian Osborne, who she truly loves, or so she thinks. <br />Evan agrees to this plan during their time spent together, he discovers that Lydia is a generous, caring and sensitive person. He slowly learns to like her and to appreciate her but he still backs off from making any serious actions because he know she loves Sebastian. Lydia discovers that Evan is a very decent and caring man, despite his aloof and formiddable appearance, yet she still clings to the fact that she loves Sebastian. Will these two people find love with each other, before their time is up or will Lydia still believe that she loves Sebastian?<br />I love Lydia's character. She's so nice and smart but deffinitely not boring because she's kind of mischevious. I like how Marthat Kirkland doesn't simply state Lydia's characteristics but lets readers see her personality. I especially love how Martha Kirkland read Evan from his point of view. This book is a deffinite keeper! I had such a lovely time reading this book and I recommend it to everyone who reads historical romance !<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-20
US	49193759	R117ENZSR5KRTU	0373121687	781538827	Italian Groom (Latin Lovers)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Characters Need More Work !!	Jane Porter may portray Maggie as fun, passionate, generous and caring but she doesn't really succeed in it. Maggie got pregnant by some jerk and comes back home. When Nic finds out, he demands to marry her. They get married but then there's the question about their love for each other. <br />To me, Maggie was a passive person, someone that doesn't have the emotion and strength. Nic has the hero quality but he's too military like. He doesn't seem to show a lot of emotion. I know he has the emotions because the author even puts the story from his point of view. But they deffinitely need more work. Especially with one of their problem. I thought that it wasn't really resolved and that the characters just left it alone. <br />I gave this 3 stars because there are some good points to the story. Like their truth or dare game, which showed some realness to it.<br />^_^ ~ Izzy	2001-09-19
US	49193759	R32AI3SO0RO7FO	0373119607	440928297	Marriage Campaign	Books	2	5	6	N	N	some drama won't hurt !	Hmm....I wonder if it's me because I found this story to be really boring. <br />Francesca is a widow, her husband was killed in an accident three years ago. Francesca keeps herself distanced from everyone, even all this time and then she meets Dominic. Dominic wants her from first sight and uses tactics to meet her. He slowly, gently and patiently pursue her because she's still hurt about the death of her husband. <br />Seriously, Helen Bianchin has some good works. (I'm using some because I found one that was also boring) But I hate how easily everything goes. Sure everything fits in with everything and things goes along smoothly but I, myself would like to see some bumps along the way. If you guys want to read it, then enjoy and tell me what you like about it because it was a little bit too smooth for my liking. <br />Also Helen Bianchin included some other characters that had more interesting problems. And what's with that? Are there going to be other story extended from this one? Well enjoy people!	2001-09-16
US	49193759	RI1BZS1XWOQ4D	0373121903	241483462	Her Sister'S Baby (Presents, 2190)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	It was okay	Cass knew there was something wrong when her ex-lover Dray Carlisle turned up. Turns out that her sister Penelope has died giving birth to her daughter because Penelope had some sort of complication. Penelope's husband, Tom Carlisle (he's Dray's little brother) doesn't want the baby because he isn't sure if it's really his. He has these suspicions because during Tom's amrriage with Penelope, she had a few affairs.<br />So for the next few days Cass and Dray would be spending time together because Cass wanted to take care of her neice. During their time together, Cass tries to resist the chemistry between them and tries very hard to remember why their relationship had not worked out but it's getting harder and harder to remember why. <br />I liked it but the story was kinda boring. I wish there was a little more action. I loved the part when she slapped him but everything else seems kinda placid. Also I wished that there were more obstacles cause everything ended too easily and I hated the fact that half of this book were in flashbacks. I wish there were more scenes that were on the present and not on the past. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-15
US	49193759	R3QGP5G0OE4KTG	0263167321	816138818	The Marriage Deal	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Really Boring !	The reason I read this book was because I like to read Helen Bianchin's work but this one was sooo boring !<br />Sandrine married Michel Lanier. They were in love with each other and they have a great sex life but then Sandrine left Michel to take up acting. Sandrine used to be a model, before meeting Michel and now Sandrine was able to act in this movie. She knows that Michel won't like it and didn't tell him about it until the last minute. They had a great argument, followed by great sex but in the morning, Sandrine left him to pursue her career.<br />Now the movie is on a tight budget and they really need money to complete the movie. And the only one who could help them out is Michel. He will help out, only if Sandrine returns to his side...<br />I wish I could rant and rave about this book because it was sooo boring. But then I would be giving away the ending, in case anyone wants to read it. But the thing I hated most about it was that there was no great big fight or some big drama in it, which would lead to the end. It was all so dull and I was surprised because Helen Bianchin usually writes some really good stories. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-09
US	49193759	RTYXEJQVQT4G6	0553278592	140699390	Sweet Revenge	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Sweet Revenge ?	The hardest part of reading this book was the beginning. I hated it and loved it. I hated it because there was such misery for Adrianne's mother, Phoebe Spring and I loved it because it hooked me up with its cruelty. It was also tempting to flip to the back and just find out but I didn't want to ruin the whole thing.<br />Phoebe Spring, a western woman, lives in Jaquir (a Muslim world), supposedly living in a wonderland with her so called loving husband. But underneath all that *love* is a husband that treats her cruelly. (He beats and rapes her) Her husband Abdu didn't always treat her this way, he used to love her but all that changed when she gave birth to a daughter, Adrianne. After Adrianne, Phoebe could no longer have anymore children and because of that Abdu despised her and treated her very badly.<br />Phoebe could have left him but she didn't because she wouldn't be able to take Adrianne with her and she loved Adrianne too much to leave her. So Phoebe stuck by and turned to alcohol and drugs to pass her days. Then one day when Abdu told her that he plans to send Adrianne away and then Phoebe knew she had to get away. With the help of her friend, Celeste, Phoebe was able to runaway with her daughter to New York. In New York she was able to get a divorce but her life still went down hill. Before Phoebe met Abdu, she was an actress and a very good one. In New York, she contacted her agent to try to get some acting parts. But instead Phoebe got played because during her time in Jaquir she was left totally battered and now she's too weak to make the right choices. She totally depended on drugs and alcohol and in the end she died because of her depression and inner demons. <br />Adrianne on the other hand was opposite of her mother. While her mother slowly declined in the social ladder, Adrianne's social status rose. Plus the fact that she was still a Princess, no matter what. Adrianne had the toughest time because she slowly watched her mother die a little bit more but now that she's 25, she plans to get revenge on her father, by stealing The Sun and the Moon. This isn't a rash decision on her part, she had practice on stealing but she's not interested in the jewels, it's the thought that came with the jewels. It was a gift from her father to her mother and it meant a lot to her mother. When Phoebe left Jaquir, she had to leave that behind and even Abdu values it because of it's worth (money wise)<br />Adrianne is just on the verge of her mission to take the Sun and the Moon back when Philip Chamberlain comes along. He's clever, charming and handsome and he also has something in common with Adrianne...he's a thief but a retired one. Philip wants to help but for reasons that Adrianne refuse to believe.<br />Together they will journey to Jaquir and begin on their mission in revenge, against the man that has killed her mother's soul. <br />I loved everything except the end. The ending was so abrupt and kinda killed off the story. Nora Roberts could've made the ending a bit longer. Another thing I hated was that Nora Roberts didn't throw any curves at you. I wouldn't say it was predictable but it wouldn't hurt if there were more obstacles along the way. I kept expecting it but in the end there were none, which was kinda disappointing. There were a few bad points but I wouldn't say it was totally bad. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-09-04
US	49193759	R1X8M29WK45SR5	0515130966	501935513	Riptide (An FBI Thriller)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	i loved it	Rebecca Matlock (aka Becca) is being stalked by some guy who calls himself her boyfriend. Her *boyfriend* is accusing her, saying she's sleeping with the governor. But she's not, all she's doing is writing speeches for him. THe police isn't helping at all and even accuses her of trying to get attention from the governor. One day when an old lady gets blown up, for her expense by the boyfriend, she packs up and leaves to Riptide.<br />For the first few days she feels safe because she covers her tracks well...or so she thinks. Then enters Adam Carruthers who says he's here to help and protect her. Savich and Sherlock also enters the scene with their group of people to help Becca. But even with all these people, the stalker was able to find her and take her away. He returns her though, in a really daring way and thus begins the cat and mouse chase but who will win...the cat or the mouse ?<br />I just finished reading this book and I really do love this book because it seemed as if the killer was always one step ahead of you but Rebecca never quits. She's always strong and refuses to give up. I thought this book was really captivating, right after I read the first page, I was just sucked into the book. <br />I especially loved it when Cathering added a few kicks to it. Like the twist about the killer and the humor in it. I cracked up when Becca said that Adam was gay (it was his cover) Plus the other little comments that the characters made, so the story wasn't totally gloomy. <br />I'm giving this a 4 instead of a 5 because I think a 5 would be too perfect. Although I did love this book, it seemed to be missing something that makes it a 5.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-08-12
US	49193759	R390PLXO0Z5K0N	0821768484	771278504	A Perfect Rogue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Okayish Book	Unlike other reviewers, I won't say that this book was totally bad because it wasn't. I mean certain points could be changed, like making the characters more interesting and making the hero less cold. <br />Damien, the Marquis of Reston saves Caroline Smythe after she jumps in front of his carriage to save a little doggy. He takes care of Caroline by hiring a doctor to bandage her and she was unconscious for a few days from a minor scrape.  Then she's under his care for a few days and because of that people just assume that she was his mistress. Damien is known as a rake among the ton. That assumption cost her, her job of a governess. So Damien decides to be a nice guy and hires her to be the governess of his sister Augusta in Windemere, the place where Augusta and Aunt Violet lives.<br />Caroline thought that Augusta would be a small child but in truth, she is a grown woman and in an age to be married off. When Caroline receives a marriage proposal from a local doctor, Augusta decided to go to London because she couldn't stand to see Caroline married off to a weakiling. In London, Aunt Violet dresses up both Augusta and Caroline to the latest fashion and pretty soon, Damien starts to notice how lovely Caroline is. But one problem that exist is that Damien is already bethrothed adn can not pursue Caroline, even if he does love her because his honor is at stake here and he is a man of honor. Yet there is something between them....but could they resolve it and what of the little detail that Damien has a fiancee ? <br />THe problems that I had with this books is that in the very beginning it was really boring and I also noticed how most of the sentences ended with an exclamation mark. I also thought that the important characters down played on their emotions. I don't want things to be totally dramatic but I also don't want to see the characters not showing enough emotions. THere were many parts where the characters lacked the proper show of emotions also another thingthat I really hated was that a lot of parenthesis were used. I think this is the first book I've read with so much parenthesis!<br />That's it for now because I don't really want to bash this book.<br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-07-31
US	49193759	RWHEMEU4NY58Z	0590396501	475418975	Spirit Horse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I Simply Loved This Book !!!	This is my second time reading *Spirit Horse* and I have to say I was so not disappointed. The first time I read it, I skimmed over it because I wanted to read the action and adventure and didn't really care much for the details. But this time when I read it, I read everything and it gave me such a clear picture. This is a must read for everyone because it's soo good. <br />Running Crane was chosen to go along with Wolf Eagle's war party and it is a great honor to be chosen. But the bad thing is that Weasel Rider was also chosen to go along with the party. Running Crane doesn't like Weasel Rider because Weasel Rider always taunt Running Crane about how he wasn't able to ride a horse. (Everytime Running Crane rides a horse, the horse throws him off) Running Crane doesn't like the taunts and he dreams about this great spirit horse which runs very fast and is magnificent. <br />So Wolf Eagle and the party goes to steal horses and during their journey to travel to the Snake People's land (their enemy), Running Crane has to endure Weasel Rider's taunts. When they arrive, they hear how there's this great horse and if fits the description of Running Crane's great horse. They go to steal horses but something goes wrong and Running Crane is separated from the party. Now it is up to Running Crane to survive the wilderness and to tame that great horse, that was let loose during their mission. <br />This book is a must read because it holds a lot of knowledge and sense. I think everyone would enjoy this book!!! I know I have enjoyed it. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-07-21
US	49193759	R29LIIAIIAC3S9	0553492918	628366566	Behind His Back (Love Stories)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love Triangles	Fran has a boyfriend named Toby. Toby is really cute, funny, deep and open. He gets Fran to experience new things. He even meets her family but when the time comes that she meet his family, she gets a big shock because she sees who Toby's older brother is. <br />Toby's brother is Marshall and Fran has been crushing on him from afar, before she met Toby. When she met Toby her crush on Marshall became almost non-existent but now that she see him again, she's obsessing about him. The bad thing is that Marshall seems to be attracted to her also. So now its this love triangle thing between her boyfriend and her boyfriend's older brother!<br />I finished this book in one day because I wanted to know who she'll end up with. At first I thought she was just going to be alone, by the end of the book. Well kinda, maybe. I'm not sure. That's why I didn't give it a full 5 stars, the ending wasn't really complete in my opinion. Plus the fact that I'm not too crazy about reading these kind of relationships. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-06-17
US	49193759	R1C5ZM9IW49EDX	0373036280	288654101	Corporate Wife (Marrying The Boss) (Romance, 3628 : Marrying the Boss)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	........................................................	The Corporate Wife was okay but I wouldnt call it the best, because I kind of found the guy a little bit cold, but the story, plot and other stuff was pretty good. <br />Erin Reynolds was Slater Livingstones personal assistant. She was always there for him and helped him out in a lot of business and office stuff. But now he proposed to her, and the reasons he gave her were all on how practical it would be, the right thing to do and the sensible thing to do. Erin marries him for her mothers sake, because her mother was about to die. Its only when after the wedding does Erin realize the reasons she married him for were only a cover-up for why she really married him...but what were really Lvingstones reasons for marrying her?<br />I liked The Corporate Wife, I just didnt like how cool Slater acted. Everything about him seemed so...shuttered. But besides that, everything about this book was good. Leigh Michaels also added in a few more *problems* that I think made the book more interesting. I especially loved the scenes when she made Erin so strong and those few touchy moments that almost made me cry. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-05-19
US	49193759	R2UOOQNKM8XORP	037312158X	312710613	Mission : Make - Over (Harlequin Presents, 2158)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	&lt;~~~~~* My Favorite, So Far *~~~~~&gt;	Mission is my favorite book, at least out of all the books I read so far, that I could remember. I like these kinds of books where the heroine changes and defeats the bad guys (not exactly, but in a way) and finds true love. <br />Lucianna Stewart is a tomboy, she even dresses like one, but you really cant blame her because her mother died when she was a few months old and was raised by a father and 4 brothers! Anyways she works as a mechanic and has a boyfriend, John. John is like the bad guy, he dont treat her as a boyfriend would treat a girlfriend and when he leaves on a business trip to Canada, Lucianna decided she had enough. She decided that she should act more feminine and this is where Jake comes in.<br />Jake Carlisle is Luciannas neighbor and a friend of the familys since like forever(?) and hes the gorgeous sexy type. He decides to help Lucianna by making her look and act more feminine and it works. He teaches her how to flirt, to look at the signs of body language, and among other stuff. What he didnt tell her was why de wants to help, she thinks its out of his good heart, although he has other intentions. <br />When John comes back from Canada, hell see a whole new Lucianna, and a whole new attitude. Along with a few changes Lucianna decides to make in her life about the boys in particular. <br />I liked this book it was a light read. (But what Harlequin books werent a light read?) Anyways I like these kinds of books and i dont normally find these kinds of romances where the hero/heroine would change itself to discover more and to realize more. I wonder if Im the only one who like these books because most of my friends like to read books about the strong and independent types. <br />^_^ ~ Izzy	2001-04-24
US	49193759	R20SNHSQLTWO0Z	0373036442	915556966	Accidental Fiancee (The Merits Of Marriage)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Opposites Attract!!	I think Accidental Fiancee was kind of slow but sweet and that Renee Roszel could'vhave made the story a little bit longer because I get the feeling that she rushed through it. I am not giving away the ending or anything but I think it ended too fast and it could'vhave been a little bit more developed. But anywayz the hero is Zachary Merit and the heroine is Olivia Nordstrom.<br />Zack is a daredevil, he jumps out of planes and does stunts for fun. He met Olivia when he saved her from death. (Olivia's's parachute wouldn't open when she jumped out of the plane) After he saved her, a few days later he reads in the newspaper and finds out that he was engaged to Olivia. And then it was kind of predictable about the paparazzi hounding him. And because of that he escapes to his family's home, Merit Island, which has a security like Fort Knox. <br />Olivia is the daughter of a senator that wants to run for presidency. But besides that she is like a goody two shoes person. She arrives to Merit Island to apologize to Zack about their so called engagement. She then faints because of overwork. (I did say she was the daughter of a senator that was running for presidency) Olivia stays there for a week to rest up and while she was there she begs Zack to teach her how to be wild. Because all her life she had to follow her daddy's rules and couldnt be the person she wanted to be. So Zack is teaching her to be wild.<br />But the funny thing is that Zack is having naughty thoughts about little Ms. Olivia and is trying to restrain himself, because of their differences. Some of the stuff that he says to Olivia, comes out all wrong and that was one of their problems. But read the book to find out! I recommend this to people who enjoy light romances and not the totally in depth stuff. And could somebody please tell me what are the other 2 Merit books? Because there are 3 in this whole set (Merits of Marriage) and \\"AAccidental Fiancee is the last one and I didnt read the previous 2. <br />^_^  ~  Izzy	2001-04-14
US	49193759	RXR5WVHN1OYQU	0380804190	709286401	On a Long Ago Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Honoria Pyne &amp; James Marbury	Honoria Pyne and James Marbury were lovers in the past adn now 8 years later they meet again. Marbury wants Honoria back but Honoria is saying no and refusing him because of something in the past. Now Marbury is going to try to seduce Honoria and make her his again.<br />I found this book kind of slow paced and I think there are too much memories, but the story is good. There's action in it and a duel between Marbury and Honoria's ex-fiance, Derrick Russell. The only problem I had was that they thought too much. It's not as if I hated the thinking, it just seemed that there were more thinking than talking and doing something.<br />I especially did  like Honoria because she's so complex. Honoria has this free spirit but she is bound by her position and duties, same as Marbury. That's why they match because of their common personality.<br />^_^   ~Izzy	2001-03-17
US	49193759	R16R9K377VP1YP	0553562746	465503595	Fanta C (Mason Sisters)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	A  Widow and a Bachelor	Elizabeth Burke is the owner of the store Fantasy, she has two kids and her husband has been dead for 2 years. <br />Thad Randolph is a bachelor who lives next to Elizabeth. He moved into his house about the time after Elizabeth's husband was killed. <br />Elizabeth and Thad never really said anything to each other except for the occasional hellos. This all changed when Elizabeth rescued a cat from the tree and ended up getting stuck on top of the tree. Thad kind of saved her by guiding her down. Elizabeth and Thad then begins to get drawn together partly because of Elizabeth's kids but also something else because they always happen to see each other. <br />But then there are obstacles for them to overcome, like Elizabeth's fear of people gossiping about her and Thad, Thad's bachelorhood and all these other issues. <br />I think Fanta C. is kind of mild, compared to Adam's Fall. Too bad I read Adam's Fall first because it goes after Fanta C. and it kinda killed some of my interest. (Adam's Fall is Elizabeth's sister's story about her love life) But all in all, Fanta C isn't bad. There are sweet parts and parts that I think Elizabeth is being too much of a prude. <br />I rate this book about a 4.5	2001-02-18
US	49193759	R3U8UV9JEL61JP	0380809168	580833959	Reforming a Rake (With This Ring, Book 1)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Governess and Notorious Rake	\\"Reforming a Rake\\" is a good book. I enjoyed it because there were so many obstacles and then there were also so many changes. <br />Lucien Balfour, the Sixth Earl of Kilcairn, is cornered into taking in his aunt and cousin into his home for him to look after. They move in with him and he finds his Aunt Fiona, and cousin Rose is a nuisance and the only way he can get rid of them is to marry off Rose with some other guy. When he actually meets Rose, Lucien discovers that he'll never marry her off because she doesn't have style, class or elegance SO he hires Alexander Gallant as Rose's governess. <br />Alexander Gallant has been unemployed for the last six months because of a certain scandal. (I'm not going to get into that!) When she came across an advertisement in the newspaper, about a need for a governess, she went to answer it and it was Lucien. Lucien hired her but Alexander isn't sure if that was a mistake because she was attracted to him and she's not supposed to feel that way because she is a governess.<br />But trouble strikes when Alexander's past pops up and Aunt Fiona conspires to separate Lucien and Alexander. Will there love survive these hurdles or would they break apart?<br />I'm not exactly sure how to finish up the last part because I want to some how capture readers into reading this book. I think it's a wonderful romance story because of the way Lucien and Alexander act. They bicker with each other like children and they make definite changes in each other even if they don't notice it. I hope that people who read this book will enjoy it the way I have enjoyed it.	2000-12-30
US	49193759	R2VQFD54KL0OTR	0553560506	342830300	Sarah's Sin (Loveswept)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Light and Sweet Romance !	\\"Sarah's Sin\\" is a wonderful love story between two people from two different worlds. <br />Sarah Troyer is Amish, but she's considered a rebel to her people because her thinking and ways contradict the Amish standards. Sarah's thinking and ways are too liberal and free because she yearns to learn and know more. Sarah agreed to look over her friend's brother who was hurt in this accident. But it may be a mistake because she's deeply attracted to Matt and that's not suppose to happen. <br />Matt Thorne was hurt in an accident and now he's in the country, resting. He's surprised when he wakes up and finds Sarah at his bedside. Matt is a known player and he likes Sarah because she's pretty, sweet and innocent. But as he spends more time with her, Matt discovers a sort of peace he has never known before, even if Sarah does make him aroused. <br />It all boils down to their differences. Matt is from the city and is liberal, while Sarah is from the country and is imprisoned by her Amish standards. But if Sarah was to follow Matt, she would have to give up her family. Would Sarah love Matt enough to trust Matt with her future and would Matt show her the world outside of her Amish world?<br />I like this book because it's sweet and romantic. The time Matt and Sarah spent with each other seems so magical. I liked the part when there were a few things that tested their love for each other and when they depended on each other to accomplish some obstacles. A good and light romance to read but it makes people wonder about the Amish ways.	2000-12-18
US	49193759	R1XG1WDZQ935Z0	0380796368	595305092	The Maiden Bride	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Good and Sweet !	\\"The Maiden Bride\\" is one of those good books, where the main character tries to do some good and doesn't have any of those selfish or secret agendas that benefit themselves. <br /> Eleanor is an optimistic and hopeful person, by nature. She journeyed to Faulkhurst with her friends, to claim a castle, which belonged to her through a marriage when her husband supposedly died. (Eleanor never met her husband and the marriage they had were really nothing. Because the marriage conditions/duties were never fulfilled and the marriage was just basically a signing of papers) Eleanor and her friends went to Faulkhurst and all she found was an empty town with a crummy castle and a person that resembled a gargoyle. The gargoyle introduced himself as Nicholas. <br />In truth, Nicholas is the husband that Eleanor married, but Nicholas doesn't reveal himself because of some internal pain he's going through. As time passes and little miracles are performed because of Eleanor's faith and trust, they fall in love. But the problem is that Nicholas's true identity is hidden and when it's revealed, would Eleanor forgive him?<br />I liked this book because it was really sweet. It wasn't one of those books where it was mostly about sex. There were a little more to it, like the rebuilding of the castle. The reason I liked this book was because of the character Eleanor. Eleanor showed so much hope and trust and she created small miracles and made the people her family. Eleanor reminds me of this character in \\"The Abduction of Julia\\" by Karen Hawkins. \\"The Abduction of Julia\\" is also another good book and I recommend it to people who liked &quot;The Maiden Bride&quot; or vice versa.	2000-12-16
US	49193759	R3JYR2HBG4BBTI	0446353930	626455459	Best Kept Secrets	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Mystery with Romance	\\"Best Kept Secrets\\" is one of those detective movies where the detective wouldn't let anything stop him or her from finding out the truth, no matter how much it hurts. <br />Alexandra Gaither wants to find out who murdered her mother 25 years ago and she would stop at nothing to find out the truth. She accuses three important men of murder and soon threats start coming in, trying to stop her. While Alex is trying to find the truth, her mother's past lover tries to help her and also tries to keep her from finding the truth. (He thinks that if she finds the truth, it would be the undoing of everything this town holds important) His name is Reede Lambert and between Reede and Alex, there is definitely some sexual thing going on between them. <br />As Alex tries to find out more about her mom's murder, she discovers that things are not what they seem. She discovers that the image her grandmother portrays about her mother was all a sham and she finds it harder and harder to convict the \\"suspects\\" because she's getting closer to them. Each of the three men has their own status they hold in her hurt. One is a father figure to her, one is like a friend and the other one is something more than a friend... <br />I like this book because of how it was developed and how it ended. It's a mystery and romance sort of thing.	2000-12-11
US	49193759	R1BPG8Y2KLKL5Y	0312854463	938189435	The Woman Who Fell from the Sky	Books	5	4	5	N	N	In a Way I Find this Deep	\\"The Woman who fell from the Sky\\" is a really captivating book. At first I wanted to stop reading this book because of the confusing names, but then it got really interesting. It wasn't really about the \\"romance\\" that captivated me but it was more of the relationship between the Indians, French and English. <br />This book (if it was based on real facts) made me realize that the Indians were not the savages of the new world, which was America. It was really the French and English. Even though the Indians were dressed weird and had different styles, their thinking and principles were really intelligent. They also kept their promises and acted as real honest people, while the French and English were like rats because they would break their promises and were really like weasels. <br />I enjoyed this book and I'm looking forward to reading the sequel (?) to this book, which is \\"For the Love of Two Eagles\\"	2000-12-09
US	49193759	R3Q2U392T0EF9J	0688104274	638112883	The River Dragon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Kind of Predictable but a Good Story	\\"The River Dragon\\" takes place in China, telling the story of Ying Shao. <br />Ying Shao was betrothed to Kal-Li when he was very young. Ying Shao was a blacksmith, it displeased Kal-Li's father because he was a goldsmith. The father tried to delay the wedding but finally a date was set. The father invited Ying Shao to the traditional three-banquet course. In the first banquet the father prepared some swallows, as the main course. Not Ying Shao was afraid because in this story there are dragons and dragons love to eat swallows. Ying Shao had to eat all the swallows because it would be disrespectful if he didn't. But how would Ying Shao escape the dragon because dragons have a good sense of smell. <br />I like the pictures in this story because of the colors and I love the way of how Ying Shao tricks the dragons. I wouldn't say this would be one of my absolute favorites because the story was predictable but I enjoyed the pictures with the story.	2000-12-03
US	49193759	R1G1H5O0G2ESE9	0553571583	640800851	Breakfast in Bed (Bed & Breakfast)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good and Intense !!	\\"Breakfast in Bed\\" is very special; because to me, the way these relationships always end up is in misery and all those bad feelings. <br />Sloan Fairchild is the owner of this elegant bed-and-breakfast inn, and it's called Fairchild House. Sloan focuses all her energy into Fairchild House and in a way Fairchild House is her sanctuary from the outside world, because in the outside world, Sloan has been hurt too many times and she's sort of hiding from it. Sloan promises her best friend, Alicia to let Alicia's fianc live in Fairchild House for a month. It was a big mistake... because as soon as Sloan opened that door to let Carter Madison into that house, Alicia's fianc, there was instant sexual tension. <br />Carter Madison came to Fairchild House, to work on the last chapter of his book. What he didn't expect was to feel the passion and desire for his fiance's best friend. <br />Sloan and Carter try to ignore the mutual passion and desire, because of Alicia, but it's very hard. The time comes when Carter ahs to leave, to marry Alicia, but would Carter be able to leave and fulfill his wedding vows to Alicia?<br />I love this book because of the strong will power Carter and Sloan shows, to restrain themselves of their passion and desire. I think it's really magical and it's really good. I stayed up until very late to finish \\"Breakfast in Bed\\" and it was worth it.	2000-12-03
US	49193759	R8LWFGDSW667G	0152014071	775869443	The Crane Wife	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I love the Pictures but Not all of the Story	\\"The Crane Wife\\" is one of those tragic Japanese love stories.<br />Osamu is poor sail maker and he loves to watch cranes. He thought that cranes were very special and pretty. Osamu wants a wife but because he's poor, Osamu doesn't think he could get a wife. One night, a crane came by his door and the crane was hurt. Osamu nursed it back to life and the crane left. Time passes and a lovely woman came by and she became his wife, her name is Yukiko. When Osamu and Yukiko had no more money for food, Yukiko decided to make a magic sail. She makes one and tells Osamu to sell it. When Osamu sells it, he gets enough money to last for six months. Osamu starts to get greedy but Yukiko tells her husband that making these magical sails, take too much of her. Nevertheless Osamu demands Yukio to make these sails but when Osamu demands Yukiko to make these sails, would he destroy her?<br />I love the pictures that come with this story. It's really detailed and very pretty and the colors made the pictures very vivid. The only thing that I hated about this story was how this story illustrates its moral of not taking things for granted. It's a tragic love story but in a way Osamu deserved it.	2000-12-03
US	49193759	R39B9I8N1LVDEG	0374309477	660859429	Brave Irene: A Picture Book	Books	5	18	19	N	N	I love this book !!	I love \\"Brave Irene\\"! I read it during first grade and it's still one of my favorite stories. <br />Mrs. Bobbin, Irene's mother is a dressmaker. She just finished making this beautiful dress and she has to get it to the duchess, the person who ordered the dress, because the duchess was having a party. But Mrs. Bobbin is feeling sick, she has a headache and her head is hot. So Irene volunteered to get the dress over to the duchess's house, Mrs. Bobbin protested because it was snowing a lot outside. Irene sets out to deliver the dress to the duchess. She battles with the wind and snow, while carrying the big box, holding the gown but would she be able to get the dress over to the duchess's house?<br />The reason I love this book is because of the dedication and love Irene shows for her mom. Irene would do anything for her mom and I find that really sweet of Irene. I recommend this to everyone and I hope they enjoy it, even if it IS a children's picture book.	2000-12-03
US	49193759	R1ZCL911PEFYVL	050552371X	591856283	Lovers and Other Lunatics (Time of Your Life)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Light Read ~ Not an intense book for me, at least	\\"Lovers and Other Lunatics\\" is ok to me. I won't say it's totally fabulous because the story seemed a little bit too long, to me. <br />Teresa Phelps was held at gunpoint by this lunatic and was kidnapped. This blue-eyed-British hunk claims that Teresa has an affair with his father. And that he won't let her ruin his parents' 35 years of marriage. So now this British hunk, Charles Everett, is going to follow Teresa around. <br />Charles Everett gave Teresa a bull story because he has another reason to get close to her. It isn't for love, but for a treasure that her dead brother has left behind. <br />While Charles is with Teresa, all sorts of people are attacking her, for the treasure. There are the Hispanics and then there is this evil pig guy. (They held her at knifepoint, ransacked her house, shot her house and some other stuff)  And while all this is happening, sexual tension is in the air, between Charles and Teresa. Will they be able to save themselves, find the treasure and still be together after all these series of adventures?<br />I found this story to be kind of a drag, the days were long and somehow or another Teresa is always in this angry mood. But I thought the storyline was funny, though. I'm not sure if I would recommend this though, but if people like a light and easy read with a sense of humor, then maybe this book is for you people out there.	2000-12-02
US	49193759	R2LVMNJR94KTUU	0312966490	155205570	The Bride of Rosecliffe	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Little Under OK	I say \\"The Bride of Rosecliffe\\" is a little worse than ok because of the ending. <br />Josselyn ap Carreg Du is a Welsh woman and is shocked to discover that English men would be building a castle in her lands.<br />Randulf Fitz Hugh is the English leader who plans to build the castle in Wales, the place where Josselyn lives. He builds the castle in the name of King Henry and once he is done, he plans to return to London. What he wants is peace so that the castle can be built successfully and then there would be no troubles. <br />Josselyn decides to spy on the English be being the tutor for Randulf to teach him her language. Randulf pays her by the coin. What they didn't expect was the attraction between them. But even if they were falling in love, could they overcome the boundaries of Welsh and English? <br />I think this book was really good in the beginning and in the middle. The ending was bad but then there are the other books that continue after \\"The Bride of Rosecliffe\\" and I hope it's able to cleanly end this off. The second book to this one is \\"The Knight of Rosecliffe\\"	2000-11-26
US	49193759	R3SFHRCG7CR1M5	0440235278	877846183	The Scoundrel's Vow	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Love Filled with Boundaries	The Scoundrel's Vow is okay and stuff. I won't say it was totally good but it was just okay.<br />Calandra Locke has come back home after 6 years of Lady Shelbourne's School for Girls. She has changed a lot! Before she left, she was fat and not really confident but she came back as a beauty. She became a lot skinnier and became more \\"polished\\". Calandra is the daughter of a steward and her father works for the handsome Scarborough (Calandra called him Scar) Weston. Even when Callie was a kid she had always loved Scar. Now she dreams of getting married with Scar and that Scar would love her as she loves him. <br />Scarborough Weston was a known rake or player who had many mistresses and he gets bored with women easily. When Calandra (he called her Callie) returned from school, he was deeply shocked because the little girl was gone and a beauty has come back in return. Secretly, when he was a kid, he felt this connection towards Callie but he can never express it. <br />Scar and Callie act as old friends but as they spend more time together, their passion is easily started. And each time they see each other when no one is around their passion increases. But even when their passion increases and kisses are stolen, Scar has vowed never to take Callie because he knows he will hurt her in the future, because he's scared that he would get tired of her and then hurt her since he's not into monogamy. <br />But Scar still can't resist Callie. But how would they overcome the boundaries of a steward's daughter and a lord? And would Scar always remain faithful to Callie?<br />I think this book is romantic and funny because of Callie's personality. I think that it's also good that Callie and Scar faces some little problems that kind of test their love for each other and to make them realize their love.	2000-11-23
US	49193759	R152ORWTQWA97Q	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Must Read to those who enjoy Susan Elizabeth Phillips	\\"It Had to be You\\" is a really good book because it's about two totally opposite people coming together. <br />Phoebe Somerville has just inherited the Stars football team because her father died. Phoebe is really smart but she acts really dumb because of some past incident. When she inherited the football team, she wasn't prepared to face Dan Calebow, this cold but handsome man. <br />The football team comes with a coach and that is Dan Calebow. Dan is really sexy but cold because of his own problems. He hates it when a \\"bimbo\\" just inherited his football team. And that \\"bimbo\\" knows nothing about football. Besides the fact that she has a drop dead body, they really don't mix. <br />But in order for the Stars to win, Dan and Phoebe would have to work together. The Stars would also have to win the AFC Championship, so Phoebe could keep the Stars out of her greedy cousin, Reed Chandler, who is a class A jerk. Could they win the Championship? And what about Phoebe's dark past, could she heal herself so she and Dan could start something new or would she always stay a victim to her past? <br />I think this is a good book. It's one of those wonderful Susan Elizabeth Phillips books about different types of people getting together. I think she is a really good writer because she comes up with these different styles and personalities for her characters. I recommend this book to readers who have also read \\"Dream A Little Dream\\" and \\"Nobody's Baby but Mine\\"	2000-11-20
US	49193759	R2OF05U0KIOT6A	0451186044	310302036	The Secret	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Female Power !!	The Secret is mostly about Miranda Schaeffer picking herself up after her husband supposedly dies. <br />Miranda Schaeffer is left with 3 kids after her husband supposedly dies. There was a bombing in this bank and her husband, Stephen is caught at. People thought that he died but he really didn't, he just picked up himself and left the bank. <br />Stephen wanted to leave Miranda for a long time because after he became this famous author (Forrestor), whose identity is a secret to the public except his wife, Stephen thinks he's too good. He was starting to pick on her looks then her body and he was always being so negative. Never had he thought about her in a positive way. So when Stephen \\"died\\" he left Miranda with bills and no money because he took most of their money away from their joint account. <br />Now Miranda has to survive on her own, but how because she doesn't know what to do. Finally she decides to become Forrestor, because she desperately needed money. When she wrote the book, Miranda was hoping that it would at least publish but the book became a huge success! Even better than Stephen's writing. <br />While Miranda's life style is picking up, Stephen's life style is getting drab because he's running out of money. When Stephen discovers a book written by Forrestor, he decides to get his old life back, which is the time when he was Forrestor. <br />Stephen wants Forrestor back, no matter what and he would do anything to get it. Can Miranda survive Stephen's ruthlessness and viciousness and win? <br />I think Miranda is a good role model to women who were deceived and played by their boyfriends or husbands. I like this book because of the strength Miranda shows but this book is kind of on the boring side.	2000-11-20
US	49193759	RTG917Z7XLKWU	155885259X	45913128	Loves Me, Loves Me Not	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Wonderful Book!	I think, \\"Loves Me, Loves Me Not\\" is a really good story because I understand how Maggie feels. I mean, this is relatable and this happens with people. <br />Maggie Castillo likes this guy Zach Sherwood, only he doesn't really notice her. Maggie doesn't really see Zach's true nature because she's so blind thinking of him as a God. Then there's Justin Bentley, the new guy from a private school. When Maggie's with Justin she has fun and there is a certain thrill. But which guy does Maggie really like and can she recognize whom she really likes in time?<br />This book is not really adventurous but I really like it, because Maggie explores herself and learns more about herself. In a way, I think this is a powerful book because of how it shows people. There are some issues that this book explores and I would recommend this book to all readers!	2000-11-13
US	49193759	R3KXRXJ3Z5AC9G	0553576003	281428122	Tidings of Great Joy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Magical Christmas, One Night Stand Thing	Taylor MacKensie and Ria Lavender met during a Christmas party. They had a one-night stand and a few weeks later, Ria discovers she's pregnant. Ria proposes to Taylor, so her child would not be born illegitimate. <br />And now Ria lives with him and shares everything with him. She discovers more about Taylor, his tenderness and his personality. Taylor begins to enjoy Ria's company and little by little they're living together in a comfortable way. But disaster strikes and could Ria and Taylor survive the obstacle together? And what about their previous mates before they met each other?<br />I think this book is ok. Not all that good but not really bad either. It falls into that average level. I mean there is tenderness and the romantic part but it just seems a little bland compared to Sandra Brown's other books.	2000-11-11
US	49193759	R31Z7LX9TKPUD7	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I'll give &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; 10 Stars !!	The Joy Luck Club is one of my favorite books. They are like little stories but they connect to each other. <br />There is the Jong family, the Woo family, the Hsu family and the St. Clair family. Each family is represented by the mother and the daughter because each member has their own story to tell. It's like the past and present in each story; the mother represents the past and the daughter represents the present. Even though the time is different with the mother and daughter, their stories are similar. In each chapter of the story, the mother and daughter of each family discovers more about themselves and about their daughters. <br />This book is unbelievable, because each time I read it there seems to be more than it is. I think this is a live maze because you think you have solved it but you really don't. What this book has that most books don't is the on going mystery. The other books I read, their ending is wrapped up in a nice little package but this book has more to it. I wondered what would happen afterwards but it's really hard because these characters are like real life. <br />I think this book is really fabulous and Amy Tan is a really great writer because of her writing and skills. Amy Tan is able to enter in some psychological complex and a little bit of everything else into her writing and that is really great. I love this book. I so recommend this book to all readers!!	2000-11-11
US	49193759	R3UHHE81SRWRK5	0553440365	648727282	The Rainbow Chasers: Keeping Company (Loveswept #405)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sweet in an Old-Fashioned But Quirky Way	I think I'm lucky to find this book because there aren't a lot of copies of this book in the bookstores. (If any one is wondering I found this copy lying in an ancient bookstore)<br />Alaina Montgomery, a smart and cool lawyer, who's all about class. Dylan Harrison, a bait and bar shop owner, who goofs around all the time. The only thing they have in common when they met was that they both live in Anastasia, California. <br />They met when Alaina's BMW broke down on the road when she's trying to go to her friend's costume party. Because of how Dylan and Alaina dressed, they were both arrested. From then there was a mutual attraction for each other and they related how they hated it when their friends would try to hook them up with some other person. So they come up with this idea to pretend to be dating, so it'll be just an easy date without any hassles. They get to know each other and they fall in love, but they never tell each other because they're too scared to. But could they truly ever connect over their differences?<br />I really loved this book and now I'm searching for the other books in this set. There are 4 books in this set and so far I only found 2 and I really do hope I'll find it.	2000-11-10
US	49193759	R2CSPQVAC5VQ2L	0515128538	706415344	Robert's Lady	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Good Enough For Me	Katryn married Robert, even when she knew Robert still loved her older sister, Eleanor. (Eleanor is married to this other guy) She thinks that she could win Robert's love and he'll forget about Eleanor when she's with him long enough. <br />Robert escaped from prison, because he was held captive during this war. He needed an heir, so he marries Katryn but something pops up from his past, which could destroy him and his family. And he journeys to the North, to look for this French lady that could help him.<br />Katryn joins Robert in his journey. During the journey Robert gets to know his wife better. They have problems and they solve it together and at nights, Robert is really passionate. Katryn even believes he's starting to love her. But is this true when they come face to face with Eleanor and what about Robert's past that could destroy him and his whole family?<br />I like \\"Robert's Lady\\", not because of the ending but more of the how part. Like how they ended up where they were and how everything ended. If Nicole Byrd, didn't have a good plot I think this would be boring because in a way, the ending is really predictable.	2000-11-04
US	49193759	RF9TU92I30BSW	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Suspenseful &amp; Good !	&quot;Dream Man&quot; is really a good book. I finished this book so quick, because it was so good. <br />The killer is really smart and so very evil. He kills women that he thinks that deserve a punishment. The killer totally hacks at women's bodies and he leaves no evidence for the police to find out about him.  Luckily Marlie Keen, the psychic, can see what he's seeing, feel what he's feeling. Marlie reports it to the police. At first they don't believe her, they even believe SHE committed the murders. But slowly she proves her point. <br />Then there is the Detective Dane Hollister, who's really attracting. They're both attracted to each other and they feel passion and more for each other.<br />But Dane and Marlie are in a dangerous situation, because the killer could strike very closely to them and who knows what would happen...<br />This is the first time I read a book by Linda Howard. But deffinitely not the last. I think this book is suspenseful and a little bit on the cunning side.	2000-10-27
US	49193759	R15E7GKUC6A6H5	0380797488	38293536	The Forbidden Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stunning and Romantic !	I think this is a sweet book because it is like a tennis game between Jordan Willis, the Earl of Blackmore and Emily Fairchild. They both try to attack each other but they always return the attacks. Not knowing it but they were falling in love. <br />Emily Fairchild had to pretend to be Lady Emma Campbell, because she had a secret mission to discover her friend's secret lover. <br />Along comes Lord Blackmore, trying to reveal her true identity to everyone. Lord Blackmore has sworned off love, saying that the attraction towards Emma or Emily was only desire. <br />Emily cannot reveal her identity to anyone, not even to Lord Blackmore. But keeping her secret away from him, is very hard because of his persistence and determination. Not to mention his kisses.<br />I love this book. It's very sweet, with a good ending.	2000-10-26
US	49193759	R2XJ8INFPVJPAJ	0380794470	925562381	Dream a Little Dream	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Wonderful Book to Read ~ I'm Not Good WIth Titles	I think this is a wonderful book!. This is almost like the conclusion to &quot;Nobody's Baby But Mine&quot;, because &quot;Dream A Little Dream&quot; involves the second Bonner brother, Gabe Bonner.<br />Rachel Stone was the widower of a very evil and greedy man that made Rachel take the blame of his greediness. After her husband died, everyong hated her because they believed that she was the reason, her husband became so corrupt. But Rachel don't care what the others think because she got a son to take care of, Edward who perfers to be called Chip. (Go Figure)<br />Rachel was stuck in Salvation, North Carolina because her car broke down, right in front of the property that belongs to Gabe Bonner. <br />Gabe Bonner was a man who was cold and empty of all emotions because of the devastating loss of his wife and son, due to a car accident. Gabe hired Rachel to help with his drive-in and they work together, side by side. When Gabe starts to living as as an almost human being again, the animosity the town causes a few problems for both of them. The problems might force Rachel out of the town but Gabe isn't going to let Rachel and her son go without a fight. And Rachel is no puhover either.<br />I love this book! Susan Elizabeth Phillips is a genius with words. I can never think to write such outrageous things, if I was to write a book but Philliips pull it off and with a big sucess. &quot;Dream A Little Dream&quot; is like a must read and whoever doesn't is in a great loss. I'm glad I read this book, but it was kinda hard with all the late nights I spent with this book. <br />= o )	2000-10-16
US	49193759	R3IYF6EHSS89IJ	0345433157	548738377	The Wild Child (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mary Jo Putney is really Crafty!!	I would never have thought that this story would get so crafty, sneaky and surprising. I admire Mary Jo Putney for being able to come up with such intersting changes to the story.<br />Lady Meriel Grahame was assumed mad, since she was 5 years old. Because of her survival of a massacre in India resulting in her closure from the world. Then the time has come for her to get married. Her guardian has come up with a suitable husband, Kyle Renbourne but little do they know is that Kyle has a twin brother. The twins switch place. Because Kyle had something more important to do and Dominic (Kyle's twin brother) spends time with Meriel.<br />Instead of finding Meriel mad, Dominic understands her and sees her true self, as other people have not. Even though Dominic knows that it's his sister-in-law, he's falling in love with her. Things spark up as Meriel comes out of hiding place, and opens up to the world. Soon everything starts to change.<br />The ending was really good, for me at least, and I would never have suspected that ending.	2000-10-09
US	49193759	R17049XUZRE5SX	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	10 times better than CInderella!	I love this book!  Ella Enchanted is much better than the classic Cinderella, because Ella Enchanted has more challenges and adventures.<br />Ella is cursed to be obedient, having to obey all commands. Even when Ella is cursed, she still tries to disobey, but when she does, she gets dizzy and sick. In Ella Enchanted, there is a stepmother with her ugly daughters. The step-family tortures her and her father is no hope because he cares more about money.  <br />Ella tries to break her spell with the help of her fairy Godmother, who is a superb cook. As she tries to break the spell, she meets ogres, elves, giants and exotic creatures. With each creature there is an adventure that follows. While all this is going on, she's falling in love with Prince Charmont.<br />I think this is really a wonderful book and that all fairy-tale lovers should read this book because this is really creative and good!	2000-10-08
US	49193759	R3VR3RKX4OZA0R	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	10 times better than CInderella!	I love this book!  Ella Enchanted is much better than the classic Cinderella, because Ella Enchanted has more challenges and adventures.<br />Ella is cursed to be obedient, having to obey all commands. Even when Ella is cursed, she still tries to disobey, but when she does, she gets dizzy and sick. In Ella Enchanted, there is a stepmother with her ugly daughters. The step-family tortures her and her father is no hope because he cares more about money.  <br />Ella tries to break her spell with the help of her fairy Godmother, who is a superb cook. As she tries to break the spell, she meets ogres, elves, giants and exotic creatures. With each creature there is an adventure that follows. While all this is going on, she's falling in love with Prince Charmont.<br />I think this is really a wonderful book and that all fairy-tale lovers should read this book because this is really creative and good!	2000-10-08
US	49193759	R15J4066BS3OC6	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	10 times better than CInderella!	I love this book!  Ella Enchanted is much better than the classic Cinderella, because Ella Enchanted has more challenges and adventures.<br />Ella is cursed to be obedient, having to obey all commands. Even when Ella is cursed, she still tries to disobey, but when she does, she gets dizzy and sick. In Ella Enchanted, there is a stepmother with her ugly daughters. The step-family tortures her and her father is no hope because he cares more about money.  <br />Ella tries to break her spell with the help of her fairy Godmother, who is a superb cook. As she tries to break the spell, she meets ogres, elves, giants and exotic creatures. With each creature there is an adventure that follows. While all this is going on, she's falling in love with Prince Charmont.<br />I think this is really a wonderful book and that all fairy-tale lovers should read this book because this is really creative and good!	2000-10-08
US	49193759	R12960GR0ABQ9A	0446527017	276509900	Standoff	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Sandra Brown Could've Done Better	I think this book is like a child that drags itz feet. It was super long and boring. The characters were ok and the plot was ok but it was so LONG !!<br />Tiel McCoy is this reporter and she stumbles upon this major story of two lovers. They're running away from one of their father because that father is a major tyrant. They get involved and the suspenseful journey begins. <br />At least I hope its suspenseful for other readers because this was boring for me. I think Sandra Brown could've done better.	2000-10-05
US	49193759	R2WJ7QA9QN3CZN	0553571575	10876762	Heaven's Price	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Really Sweet!!	Heaven's Price is really a sweet romance. Sure, its almost the same as Adam's Fall (also by Sandra Brown), except for the character conditions and the gender, but its still so good.<br />Sean Garrett is Blair Simpson's landlord, she's living in the place that belongs to Sean now, because she's recovering her knees. (Blair iz a dancer) Blair and Sean has this attraction and...<br />WEll I can't say the whole thing, but trust me, if you readers liked Adam's Fall, then you'll deffinitely like Heaven's Price. Sandra Brown is a great romance writer !!	2000-10-04
US	49193759	R3JXNSIR8K7BDF	038080736X	946460613	Bride for a Night	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Her Other Book Was Better	This book was really boring. Duncan and Cairo(weird name) fight with each other over the past and then they fight again over their son, Dylan. Not real exciting but there were funny and good parts.<br />I got to admit that the romance between them was sweet but Duncan and Cairo go hot and cold. One time they hate each other, in another time they're being real passionate and then they hate each other again. That's the part that killed my interest.	2000-10-02
US	49193759	RM3ESW7QWYF3L	0373440049	14643422	Anyone But You (Love and Laughter, No 4)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Hmm...	I wonder if Jennifer Cruise owns a dog and if that particular dog have somehow changed her life. In Anyone But You, a dog  changed her life by bringing in a man. By the way in her other book, Crazy For You, a dog also changed the main character's life. <br />Anywayz this dog called Fred brings Nina a 10-years-younger-than-her blonde cutie. He's her neighbor downstairs, in the second floor and she's on the third floor. It's funny because of the issues they go through but they're a cute couple. Especially since they were brought together by a dog called Fred.	2000-09-29
US	49193759	R6EUQ82Y9ATPZ	0312198493	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Women's Best Friend IS her Dog !	Too bad this book is fiction instead of non-fiction. Then it'll prove that females do rule this world!  With a little change with Quinn McKenzie (that is a girl! ) everyone around her starts changing also. Her mom is coming out of the closet, her best-friend is moving in with her and best of all, that sexy Nick and her may have somethin going on. The story gets really interesting when Quinn's persistent ex, Bill, starts stalking her. Things get intersting and all this from a little change with Quinn getting Katie, a poor looking dog that really looks like a rat.	2000-09-28
US	49193759	RW384V4SDBBN5	0064400441	491739181	From Anna	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Changes Could Happen !	I liked this story when I first read it because I was able to relate to the main character Anna. My family always teased me about me being clumsy  and in a way Anna and I had the same thoughts. Its really a good book  because Anna makes small miracles in herself.	2000-09-15
