US	49201088	R2XPRLNXWT8YPB	1578632897	589285186	Moon Magic	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Disappointing	Moon Magic is the sequel to Fortune's excellent \\"Sea Priestess\\".  Vivianne LeFay Morgan returns, this time using the name Lilith.  Through her magickal intervention, Rupert Malcolm, a doctor of great distinction, overcomes some serious psychological problems and realizes his innate psychic talent.<BR> <BR>Regretfully, I cannot regard this book as even close to equal to its predecessor.  Fortune did not finish this book while she was alive, and it reads like what it probably is: a first draft.  The various middle chapters revolve around highly repetitive conversations between Lilith and Malcolm.  The two circle around the same two or three themes, never really coming to a perceptible meeting of the minds.  There are, however, some intense ritual scenes that are as good as anything in the Sea Priestess. <br />It's not that I think the book is utterly without worth.  I wouldn't be reviewing it if I did.  I simply feel it needs a touch up, and a talented author to smooth out some of its rough edges.<br />The current (2003) Weiser edition does almost the opposite.  There are so many typographical errors that I was left wondering whether the Weiser copyeditors were on strike, and the publisher had hired the butchers at Llewellyn.  The third section of Moon Magic was completed after Fortune's death.  In fact, it was \\"channeled\\".  Fortune's voice is nonetheless clear, and there is no jarring change between the sections completed by more mundane methods and the final part.  Only, the editors seem to have missed the fact that the sixteenth chapter has two sections which describe the same action in two different ways, with no explanation.  This is distracting, to say the least.  Perhaps those who channeled this section felt too much reverence for Fortune to dare edit her?<br />The relationship between the two characters does not get resolved satisfactorily.  We are left with hints, when the explicit purpose of the final working is to bring the power to earth.<br />This book left me cold.  Still, it's not bad for a first draft.  Perhaps one day, someone will finish it, and it will take its place as another of the jewels in Fortune's fictional crown.	2003-12-27
US	49201088	R3OXCOYD7JPVGG	1578632765	862856550	Understanding Aleister Crowley's Thoth Tarot	Books	5	96	99	N	N	About time	Lon DuQuette has a talent for making things like the writings of Aleister Crowley almost make sense.  With \\"Understanding Aleister Crowley's Thoth Tarot\\", DuQuette continues his project of demystifying the difficult but critical body of literature left behind by the Beast.<br />The current work includes an introduction to the Rose Cross design that is worth the price of the book in itself.  There is also a brief overview of Crowley's life and work.  This latter is somewhat superficial, but any biography of Crowley is bound to be incomplete.  DuQuette then goes over each card in turn, bringing the lofty metaphysics of the Book of Thoth down to earth.   His formula for understanding the small cards is a good example of this.  Apply it, and you should be able to memorize and internalize the cards at a much faster rate.<br />This book was written both for people with no interest in Crowley, and for those who wish to understand the Beast better.  As such, it has to make a few concessions that it might not have if it had been written exclusively for magicians.  Some of the more sexual aspects of Crowley's doctrines are toned down a bit, for example.<br />This is only a deterrent for those who wish to keep Crowley in a box, along with their honorary degrees, suitable for framing.  The rest of us will profit immeasurably from DuQuette's hacking through the thicket of Victorian prose to expose the roots and blossoms.	2003-12-27
US	49201088	R2FKZ4P6WE66N3	0440539811	727576641	The Illuminatus! Trilogy: The Eye in the Pyramid, The Golden Apple, Leviathan	Books	5	47	50	N	Y	To be read many times	Illuminatus! is pershaps one of the most wonderful books I have ever read.  The combination of occultism, anarchism, and outright wierdness carries the reader through the most bizzare conspiracy theory ever dreamt of.  This book will make you laugh, rage, and probably cause you to become a bit paranoid.<br />   The story, or stories, hinge around a search for the truth about the Illuminati, a worldwide conspiracy that has apparently existed for centuries.  Wilson complied a great deal of information, as well as tid bits from letters sent to him by crazies when he was working as the letters editor at Playboy magazine.  The result is a book that leaves you wondering where fact ends and satire begins.  That is, of course, the point.  Wilson is out to blow your mind.  <br />   Professional cynics, who delight in nay-saying the creativity of others without producing anything of their own as an alternative, will find the book sentimental and a bit silly.  For those with truly open minds, however, the Illuminatus Trilogy will be a book to read many times over.  There is enough subtlety to keep you as busy as a thorough reading of Finnegan's Wake.  The hidden messages and allusions seem to multiply each time you read.<br />   You may even see the Fnords!	2002-05-12
US	49201088	RUDKTXYR1SOAO	1561840017	363440398	Sex, Drugs & Magick: A Journey Beyond Limits	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	A serious look at the New Holy War	In Sex and Drugs, Wilson shows how drugs have been used along with sex through the ages as paths to mystical experience.  He then demonstrates how the current \\"war on drugs\\", is really a holy war between different factions of drug users.  He details many experiences of people whose lifes have been changed, for good and bad, by the use of drugs.<br />   This book is a bit more sober than Wilson's other works, and suffers from having had updates to the current edition inserted into the texts without revising the context to fit it.  Otherwise, a good look at sex and drugs as something other than a reason to shred what's left of the Constitution.	2002-05-12
US	49201088	RC8UAL5PPA3BH	1561840564	441945100	Prometheus Rising	Books	5	192	200	N	Y	Change yourself, change the world	In Promethues Rising, Robert Anton Wilson tells you how to alter your brain in a positive fashion.  He teaches you to see the world differently, though not neccasarily his way.  What he has done is written a book which demonstrates how the human miund can be either used for freedom or slavery.  The choice is up to us.<br />  Using Leary's model of the Eight Circuit nervous system Wilson explain such things as patriotism, brainwashing, and morality.  He then systematically shows you how to brainwash yourself for fun and profit.  The exercises are the main benefit of the book.  This is taking into account all the uselful information he provides on each circuit, along with corespondences to the Tarot and James Joyce.<br />  Wilson's hopeful outlook and crazy sense of humor keep the book moving through material that could, in the hands of a less skillfull writer, be hard to wade through.  The only danger is that some readers might mistake his light hearted approach as a sign that he can't be taken seriously.<br />  Really, the world has gone through enough blunders and attempt to change it \\"for the better\\".  The answer is to change yourself first, then reach out to others.  This book is one way of beginning that process.	2002-05-12
US	49201088	RYYP9KUI56RIB	0440500702	976631306	Schrodinger's Cat Trilogy	Books	5	26	31	N	Y	The carnival of weirdness continues	Robert Anton Wilson, the &quot;last Scientific shaman of our age&quot; provides us with a guide to illumination in this series of three books that are one book.  Each volume here collected is a different view of the same world, a ride through the most radical theories of modern physics.<br />   Many characters from the Illuminatus! Trilogy reappear, including Simon Moon and the midget Markoff Chaney.  They all take slightly different forms, except for Chaney, who appears as the ever constant Random Factor.  And when Ulyses return to Ithyca, we get a peak at what Wilson's imagination is capable of.<br />   The book may be slightly perverse.  But then, he's writing about the state of the human race.  I assume that it is only Wilson's positivity that keeps him from writing us all into a novel that would make Sade cringe.  The point here is to enjoy, observe, and learn.<br />   Readers of Illuminatus! will certainly enjoy this book.  Moralists, of course, will weep in their beds.  But that's the best part of all...	2002-05-12
US	49201088	RHHTY3GTFQJOO	096265342X	884109557	Principia Discordia	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	23 ways to make life more fun	This is the bible of Discordianism.  That is to say, that religion disguised as a complex joke disguised as a religion.  Arcane Mysteries dwell herein young cabbage. Fnord. You must learn much about laughter before Eris will come and bless you with misunderstanding. Fnord.<br />   Seriously, this book is far more important than it gets credit for.  Basically, there are some who think religion should be a serious affair, and those who do not.  This book is for people who think it should not.  If you think you will enjoy the idea of the Universe being run by a crazy woman, get this book.	2002-05-12
US	49201088	R3Q5P0SO3JGSZH	0936756764	518618098	T.A.Z. the Temporary Autonomous Zone, Ontological Anarchy, Poetic Terrorism (New Autonomy Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Long live Chaos	Hakim Bey borrows from Situationism, dada, the occult, and a few other sources to create Ontological Anarchism.  The result is a very strange and very wonderful pattern for a revolution that starts now.  Bey is not interested in whether the dialectic has reached its head.  This is a personal revolt, an insurrection in everday life.<BR>  <BR>  The first section deals with Poetic Terrorism, an extension of Situationist praxis beyond street theatre.  Basically, any action taken against the spectacle fits into this, but especially those aimed at institutions of misinformation.  The second part is comosed of broadsheets detailing everything from surrealism to black magick.  The third is TAZ proper, or improper as the case may be.  Bey includes some fascinating information on pirate utopias and the lost Roanoke colonies that were almost certainly left out of your high school history book.<br />   The book does not so much suggest techniques as it does evoke a spirit of revolt.  This is anarchy for those who like their insurrections occult and their politics way outside the mainstream.	2002-02-16
US	49201088	R2XHGNL2XVCT7O	1873176422	533598861	Immediatism	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	A practical guide to Ontological Anarchy	In the temporoary Autonimous Zone, Hakim Bey evoked a spirit of insurrection.  In Immediatism, he gives ideas on just what to do with this wild spirit or \\"strange attractor\\" once it's flying around your kitchen.<br />  Immediatism basically entails a return to an economy of the gift, or reciprocity rather than commodity.  Bey suggests forming secret societies of \\"art terrorism\\" and quilting bees with a twist.  The point is to keep your art away from the Spectacle.  If THEY get ahold of you, you're (...).<br />  This is not a political program for those who enjoy dry sessions of critcism/self criticism and \\"non-violent\\" resistance.  It is about creating a new society \\"in the rotting shell of the old\\".  It is for true radicals, not \\"reformers\\" or  \\"progressives\\".  Bey is as hostile toward leftist values as he is right wing morality.  Immeidatism is about life, not theory.  It is for those who wish to dance with Chaos.	2002-02-16
US	49201088	R1YY74BPLPYKZI	0140585044	543713360	Shelley: Selected Poetry (Poetry Library, Penguin)	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Wonderful, but slightly one dimensional	Shelly was a master at combining images and creating a world that was uniquley his own. The problem is, that world seemed to consist mainly of foggy sea shores at sunrise and forest cathedrals. While there is nothing wrong with visiting such a world, there is very little reason to stay there.<br /> Shelly's lyrics are uneven, sometimes resorting to rhymes that make me cringe. His strength is iambic prose. Even this suffers from what appears to be a limited vocabulary which para doxically inclused eccentric spellings like &quot;aery&quot;.<br /> Having said all that, I must admit that I am in sypmpathy with Shelly. He dwells in a solitary world of fairy beauty that is the spiritual home of every soul in search of Truth. This goes a long way toward forgiving his somewhat middle ground talent.<br /> &quot;Queen Mab&quot; and &quot;Alastor&quot; are the best peoms in this collection. Most of the other seem to be either comments or footnotes to these. They encompass Shelly's strange universe beautifully.<br /> &quot;Alastor&quot; is the strongest in terms of imagery reflecting isolation and the hard choice to foresake worldy pleasure to find a higher truth. All sorts of moonlit coves lie just past the crashing waves of the main stream. One only wishes that Shelly could see the beauty he was leaving was a part of what he sought.<br /> I recomment this edition, and the critical essay at its beginning, as a starting point for study of Shelly and his work.	2001-09-29
US	49201088	R12RLBKEPQYFY	0671023934	858012267	The Anatomy of Motive	Books	3	49	93	N	N	Profiling John Douglas	I clearly am not in the target audience for John Douglass Anatomy of Motive. I picked up this book thinking it was a scientific look at how mentally ill criminals think. What I read, while interesting, is such a far cry from what I consider science that to name it such would be paramount to calling a stapler a chicken. This is emphatically not to say that this is a bad book. I found the look into the mind of a profiler very interesting, and even managed to learn a bit about what he does. The thing I take issue with is the constant references Douglas makes to his subjects as losers, cowards, or creeps. These people are, to begin with, mentally ill. While their crimes are undoubtedly awful, they should be judged in the context of pathology, not morality. I cant imagine why Douglas feels the need to remind us that it is wrong to eviscerate a woman and leave her corpse under a woodshed. I know this already, thank you. Equally irritating is the manner in which Douglas ignores two glaring facts. The first is that the most brutal of the crimes described in the book were carried out by individuals either enlisted in the armed forces or retired therefrom. It seems that Mr. Douglass own military background hinders him from seeing a pattern of violence connected to the military. Then again, maybe these folks are just losers. The second is that his dominate, manipulate, and control formula is a fair description of the goals of most corporate CEOs. If one is going to moralize, they should acknowledge that the violence that these offenders commit has at least some relation to the very values our society celebrates. To play these very sick people off as losers ignores that their illness is the logical extension of our own. Of course, this sort of statement does not belong in a book purporting to be about the science of criminal profiling. What are appropriate here are a description of a crime, and how the profiler determined what sort of personality the offender has. I would think that labeling the &quot;UNSUB&quot; a loser would hinder the objective analysis necessary to find him. While there is enough of the kind of information I wanted to keep me reading, I couldnt help feeling like Id just been preached to. If Douglas had left out his completely unnecessary pedantic rambling, this book would have been about fifty pages shorter. It also would have been more interesting. In the end, I felt that the main person who had been profiled was John Douglas.	2001-08-25
US	49201088	R34MNISRD639KX	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Vintage King	Breaking my rule of never writing for a book with more than twenty reviews in grand style...<br />  Dreamcatcher is a textbook example of a Stephen King novel.  This is either a very good thing or a very bad thing, depending on your point of view.  I take the middle, and say that, while the King formula is entertaining, it does not challenge the reader in the way a horror novel can and should.<br />  This story begins in the classic King fashion, with a great deal of time spent getting to know a bunch of alchoholic, middle aged white guys before something bizzare happens to them.  This time its extraterrestrials, making this King's take on War of the Worlds.<br />  The story begins when Jonesy, a college professor, nearly shoots a man who has been impregnated by an alien weasal-thing.  These weasals gestate in the carrier's intestines, eventually exiting from the rear.  Be prepared for some lovely descriptions of the victim's backside after the weasals are done with them.<br />  Dreamcatcher has a decidedly New Age twist, using a character with Downe's Syndrome as the focal point for a psychic connection between the four main players.  His name is Duddits, and his story is the truly sad part of the book.<br />  I thought the ending of this novel was a bit pedantic, but overall Dreamcatcher is a solid effort by King.  He weaves events from his own life into the narrative, one suspects that some of the weirder bits were written while in a percoset haze.<br />  Dreamcatcher should be considred along with Needful Things, the Stand, and the Dark Half as King's best.	2001-08-04
US	49201088	RGOWLRY3HJYUO	0140447814	243721725	Venus in Furs (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	53	58	N	Y	A Deeply Spiritual Book	Venus in Furs is one of the most spritual works of erotica I've ever read.  Much has been made of its &quot;perversity&quot;, to the extent that the name of its author is also the name of a psycho-sexual disfunction.  However, I feel that this is a grossly unfair way to treat a book that deals so beautifully with the descent and return of a man through his psyche.<br />  Sevrin's tale is one of submission, slavery, and redemption.  It is through the experience of being a woman's slave that he realizes his own worth.  To treat this as an epic of laciviousness is puritanism of the lowest kind.<br />  Venus in Furs also reminds us that the difference between hammer and anvil may not be so clear cut.  It is Severin who brings out the whip in his lover.  He then reaps the whirlwind, and can only ride it out.<br />  This book is recommended for people who can see though the drivel that has been dripped upon it since its creation.	2001-06-23
US	49201088	R3EZY46I53OFXN	0911662251	9988778	Kybalion: A Study of the Hermetic Philosophy of Ancient Egypt and Greece	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	The Seed of the Mysteries	The Kybalion is a little book that does nothing less than tie up every loose end you can think of.  Within its pages the root of all religion and philosophy is put forth in simple language that neither obfuscates or spoonfeeds.<br />  The book is a tretis on the seven Hermetic Laws of Mind, Polarity, Gender, Causatiion, Rhythm, Correspondence, and Vibration.  These seven laws are a part of every religion in some form or another.  They also form the bedrock of the Mystery Tradition.  To understand them is to unravel the discrepencies between different schools of occultism.<br />  The Kybalion can be read in an hour.  However, a better method would be to read it once a week, or month, or whenever you can spare that hour.  You will find something new every time, since the Mysteries grow with you.<br />  This is an essential text.  Without it, you will be lost in a world of myriad methods and uter nonsense.	2001-06-23
US	49201088	RY0YNWIJVA6OR	0875421830	889061926	Practical Guide to Creative Visualization: Manifest Your Desires	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	A Kabbalistic Guide to Creative Visualization	While it is never explcitly stated, this book provides a Kabbalistic guide to creative visualization.  Its theory comes out of the concept of the Four Worlds on the Tree of Life.  For those familiar with that theory, this book puts this powerful technique in a framework they already understand.  For those unfamiliar, it should still work incredibly well.<br />  The wonder of the Four Worlds is that the idea is so common sense that the authors never even directly mention it.  They lay out progressive  techniques which access each level of Mind without dwelling on heavy occult theory.  In other words, this book is useful to everyone, regaurdless of whether or not you know what the Ruach is.<br />  The book basically takes you through the formative stages of daydreaming, on to planning, concrete visualization, and charging with Divine power.  There is also a quikie technique called &quot;the Star&quot; which helps with matters of immediate concern.  The Master Technique, as they call it, could easily be modified for use with the Middle Pillar or similar Kabbalistic Exercise.<br />  I'm very impressed with Denning and Phillips in general, and this book is another example of how woderful their work is.	2001-06-16
US	49201088	R3AU1XB5LLMGP2	0140191895	131816381	The Confessions of Aleister Crowley: An Autohagiography	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Crowley takes his shoes off	Aleister Crowley was a saint (in his own religion, mind you) an Adept, and a forerunner to the cultural revolution of the 1960's.  For all that, his &quot;Autohagiography&quot; reveals a side of him that doesn't normally come up in his other writings: Crowley was a human being.  Most of the statements he makes about his own greatness are tinged with irony, or so bombastic that one finds it very hard to take them seriously.<br />  For instance, in his introduction, Crowley says, &quot;&quot;This Aleister Crowley is not a man, or even a number of men; he is obviously a solar myth.&quot;  Now, I suppose one could assume he meant this, and take it as a sign of an incredibly inflated ego.  The rest of the book, however, shows an all too human side of the Mega Therion.  Crowley would not have made a statement like that then gone on to write a book which proves its antithesis.  He was a much better writer than that.<br />  Considering the central role magick played in his life, Crowley speaks little about it.  He's more interested in stories about mountain climbing and traveling about the world.  The last thrid of the book is directly related to his art, so here he gives us blow by blow descriptions of his workings.  This comes, signifigantly, after he accpets the authority of the Book of the Law.<br />  This seems to be related to his technique of referring to himself in third person until after he tells of his father died.  Just as he didn't feel like an individual until that moment, so he didn't feel like a Magus until he'd taken on his True Will.<br />  This is a very intimate look at the Prophet of the New Aeon.  It is key to understanding anything else he ever wrote, since a great deal of his philosophy is treated in detail.<br />   If you are at all interested in Crowley, get this book.	2001-06-16
US	49201088	R3V1X8GSVJ5HK8	0312862938	487857840	The Inheritor	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Good two thirds of a novel	The Inheritor is an early attempt at occult fiction of the type that came to fruition in books such as Ghostlight.  All things considered, this is a good idea for a novel.  The problem is, it needs about a hundred extra pages to resolve all the character development and side plots that Bradley builds up.      The story centers around a psychotherapist named Leslie and her sister, Emily.  Leslie has been experiencing psychic phenomena before the story begins, and &quot;The Unseen&quot; seems to be tracking her down.  She buys a house in San Francisco (the book was written in 1984, before the idea of a normal person buying a house in San Francisco would have been the most fantastic element of the story) which happens to be a vortex of occult power.  The place was owned by another psychologist, an occultist named Alison Musgrave who died without training a succsessor.  The reason she didn't train a successor is because the person who would have filled that role, a musician named Simon, had a nasty habit of sacrificing cats and junkies in the garage.  Leslie is, of course, sleeping with Simon.  These could have been the ingredients of a very good book, if Bradley were to follow through.  However, so much is left unfinished that the novel feels like a Persian carpet with a thousand frayed ends.<br />  I enjoyed The Inheritor, I only wish Bradley had seen fit to finish it before sending it to her publisher.	2001-05-19
US	49201088	R2QN8S9OHCT7JA	156718782X	267653029	Witchcraft: Theory and Practice	Books	5	55	59	N	Y	Definitely in my top ten	Witchcraft: Theory and Practice is actually an expanded version of a book the author wrote as a primer over a decade ago. That book was one of the first that I read on the Path and I am glad to see that it has been expanded.<br /> The author stresses the seriousnes of comitting oneself to the Old Religion in a way that makes you understand that this is not a game. There is an entire section devoted to self exploration, including a Book of Elements to help you find an order in those sometimes chaotic personality traits. The work serves as a caveat that the first step taken on the Path is one you can never take back.<br /> The first section of the book focuses on fundamentals: self exploration, meditation and visualisation skills, and basic grounding in the thought process of an occultist and Witch. Section two is ritual and religious instruction, and the third part is a collection of unique spells.<br /> Kabbalah informs much of the work, although I'm certain many Kabbalists would object to the author's interpretation. There is a series of guided journeys designed to open up understanding of the Spheres for the reader.<br /> Finally, the most impressive aspect of this book is its poetic nature. Angeles clearly has the soul of a poet in her, which is far more important, in my opinion, than endless lists of tools and correspondences. Her language drips with imagery, and takes the reader into the realm of the Witch the way few books do.<br /> This is a brilliant work. Truly a book one would save if they had to pick their prized possesions on the way out of a burning building.	2001-04-24
US	49201088	R2URAL94GN9GDL	0804832110	982140248	Zen Meditation Plain and Simple	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nice little primer	Zen Meditation: Plain and Simple is an excellent little primer on how to sit in zazen.  Also covered are the basics of Buddhism and Zen.  The instructions are easy to understand, and the explanations are concise if slighly dry.<br />   The only drawback is that the pictures showing the positions are in black and white, and the model is wearing dark clothing and socks.  This makes it very difficult to tell the difference between the Lotus and Half Lotus positions if you don't already know.<br />   The book stresses persistance, and that &quot;anything brought up by zazen can be solved in zazen&quot;.  It is a simple, fairly undogmatic approach to the practice of meditation.	2001-04-21
US	49201088	R35YEHVD11FB93	1578631513	341507097	Psychic Self-Defense	Books	3	107	122	N	Y	A lot of good information buried under a lot of nonsense	When reading Dion Fortune, I'm always reminded of afternoons spent with a certain stuffy aunt.  She's friendly and interesting to listen to, even if she does have a tendency to meander like a senile sylph.  In order to glean any insight, however, one must repress the gut reaction one has to the extreme examples of class bigotry and elitism that overwhelm her otherwise wonderful company.<br />   Psychic Self Defense is a prime example of both Fortune's strengths and weaknesses.  The book contains a great deal of good information and advice as to what one should do if they suspect an occult assault of some kind.  Thankfully, it also includes a warning to avoid jumping to conclusions.  Really, most of the information on how to deal with the attack is spot-on and very useful.<br />   It's the part where she illustrates where these attack are likely to come from that makes one cringe inwardly.  Fortune's repeated insistance that the &quot;witch-cult&quot; is behind a large number of these assaults is annoying at first and completely laughable by the end.  The fact that she cites Montegue Summers as a reliable source should tell you something.  Her argument is based on the assumption that any occultist not approved by the Masonic Brotherhood of Holy Innefable Ango-Saxon Tea-Totalers (or the Knights Who Say NEEE! as it were) is automatically a member of the &quot;Left Hand Path&quot;, and thus to be suspected and avoided.  That and &quot;there can not have been so much smoke (during the witch hunts) if there hadn't been a fire&quot;.  This is the sort of statement for which the word &quot;sophistry&quot; was invented.  What is completly bewildering is that Fortune never accuses the Mideval Church of any sort of psychic wrongdoing.  Creating an entity (Satan) and impregnating it with your repressed sexual desires, mobid fears, and prejudices in order to enslave an entire civilization seems like a psychic attack to me, but I could have misinterpreted. <br />   There are mainy statements in this book, about Africans, Indians, and even (for crying out loud) Buddhists, that are just plain racist.  The story of her encounter with the &quot;Occult Police&quot; implies that British Imperialism in India was justified.<br />   It is a shame that good information has to be buried under such a heap of total garbage.  Luckily, Fortune is in spite of it all, a superb writer.  She is quite witty when she wants to be, and a very good storyteller.  This redeems the work in many places, and keeps you reading where you might not if her prose were inferior. <br />   I would reccomend this book just for the information on the signs of an unscrupulous organization, which are farily prosaic and common sense.  Much can be learned, if you just tune out the static and listen for what rings true.	2001-04-21
US	49201088	R3BX11RRW7WLL9	0894803190	533767988	I Ching	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Beautiful, poetic translation	This translation of the I Ching presents a starkly beautiful, poetic explanation of the hexagrams.  I got more insight in the few hours of work I did with this book in two months of previous research.<br />  The book also contains a fairly indepth summary of the I Chings history.  This section is enjoyable in its own right, and helps to clear up some of the more ponderous references contained in the oracle.  For instance, the allusion to drinking a cup of wine as a penalty refers to a game.  There are many such little bits of cultural history woven into the translation.<br />   The section on physics and the I Ching is interesting, though a bit dry.  In context, however, this brings more life to the book.  It helps ground the oracle in the present day while looking toward the ancient origins of this facsinating oracle.<br />   I highly reccomend this translation.	2001-04-01
US	49201088	RH442X4NMJYI5	038512838X	541622769	The I Ching Workbook	Books	3	43	45	N	Y	Unique structure, uninspring translation	The I Ching workbook has a unique feature which allows you to track the appearance of the hexagrams in your readings.  The forms also allow you to track lines that change frequently in certain situations.  This is an excellent way to develop your thinking about certain aspects of your life.  I quite enjoy this feature, and it has helped greatly in my fledgling understanding of the hexagrams.<br />  That being said, R.L Wing's translation is rather dry and uninspiring.  It is intended to facilitate understanding, but the poetry which first attracted me to I Ching in the first place is eschewed in favor of prose dissertation.  That's precisley how it feels, as though someone had written an academic thesis on the hexagrams.  This, in my opinon, makes it extremely difficult to form an intuitive response to the text.<br />  Still, I reccomend the workbook simply for the journal feature.  You may or may not have the same response to the translation.  If you do, there are other translations that you can refer to, while still using the tracking feature to follow the influence of the hexagram.  Better still, combine insights from both translations.  A more poetic viewpoint actually helps render the thesis more inuitively intellegible.<br />  An excellent tool for exploring the hexagrams in your own life.	2001-04-01
US	49201088	RHEJSNM1GVMS5	1561840270	69537131	The Heart of the Master & Other Papers	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	The advent of the Beast	&quot;The Heart of the Master&quot; begins with a vision of blood and terror.  This is the way Crowley always imagined the New Aeon would arrive, since it involves a radical shift in human consciousness.  Form this terror, the Great Beast is taken into the halls of the Great White Brotherhood and takes his place among the other Avatars from all Aeons past.<br />  This work is among the more readable Class A (inspired) documents.  The flow from one passage to the next is more logical than some of the more ponderous tomes such as the Book of the Heart Girt Round by the Serpent.  This is because it basically celebrates Crowley's rise to power as the head of the O.T.O.<br />  The edition includes a fanciful tale of this ascention, and an illustrated meditiation on each of the Trumps of the Thoth Tarot. A very good work of Crowley's, presented with historical context by the editior.	2001-03-24
US	49201088	R2C4T0U2LOXMPK	1567184804	424736368	Between the Worlds: Witchcraft and the Tree of Life-A Program of Spiritual Development (Llewellyn's Modern Witchcraft Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A wonderful book that has gone out of print	It is a shame that this book had to go out of print.  In many ways, this book picks up where Ellen Cannon Reeds &quot;Witch's Kabbalah&quot; leaves off.   The Tree of Life is given a Goddess centered spin that makes perfect sense if you think about it.  The discussion of the four worlds is tied together with the Middle Pillar exercise, whuch is the best way to illustrate the concept.  Best of all, this book contains practices which will lead up to actual Pathworkings.  The book is difficult (probably the reason for its low sales) but worth pursuing if you want to tie your Craft to the Kabbalah.  Look around; if you really need the book, it will find you.	2001-03-18
US	49201088	R1HYAC7RKWVBXW	0060908548	409554193	Inanna, Queen of Heaven and Earth: Her Stories and Hymns from Sumer	Books	5	41	45	N	Y	Stunning	In the &quot;White Goddess&quot;, Robert Graves speaks of true poetry as that which sends chills up your spine because it clearly has divine origins.  While Graves' work does not meet that standard, &quot;Innana&quot; more than does so.<br />  With the fist stanza, &quot;In the first days, in the very first days, in the first weeks, in the very first weeks, in the first years, in the very first years&quot;, you enter a primal Dreamtime where the the Goddess exists as a real being made tangible by enchanting words.  It takes a true poet to translate words from a dead language into a modern one and have them retain their effect.  Wolkstein does this with grace and power.<br />  The imagery of the tales and hymns themselves is lush, erotic, and real.  I reccomend this book for anyone interested in finding a sacred text that opens up a living channel to the Goddess.	2001-03-11
US	49201088	R3GY9BK9O2LE1S	0140194614	512147330	Myths to Live By	Books	5	66	71	N	Y	Eloquent exposition of the Universal Myth	&quot;Myths to Live By&quot; is one of those books which makes me wish I did not have to assign a star rating.  For while it is, as the title of this review suggests, a very eloquent and powerful exposition of the Myth that forms the bones of our Psyche, Campbell clearly has some predjudices that make some of his points difficult to see.<br />  First, however, I shall focus on the positve aspects of the work.  Campbell begins his book with a story about the conflict between a myth (in this case the story of Adam and Eve) and the facts discovered by science.  The little anecdote serves to present the key thesis of the book: that our old religious idea that myths are literally true is no longer servicable, and that we must now, in an age where the world is coming together in ways unprecendented, seek the pattern that underlies all myths and discover our oneness as a species.  Campbell explains why myth and ritual are neccesary in concrete, psycholgical terms.  If there are no myths, individuals will become alienated from their society, since myths contain affect images that speak to not the rational mind, but the psyche.  His argument is essensially Jungian in tone.  Through a comparitive look at the worlds &quot;major&quot; religions, he shows how all myths are variations on the theme of self discovery and rebirth as a person engaged with the Universe and society.<br />  All that is wonderful.  What is not wonderful, however, is the vaugley reactionary tone underlying some of the books passages.  Campbell seems to share the imperialist view that all of human history naturally culminates in modern, technological, Western Civilization.  He dismisses the youth movement of the time he wrote this book (the sixties to early seventies) as folly.  The cultural contribution of &quot;Beat&quot; poets such as Ginsberg an Kerouak is completley ignored.  In fact, the &quot;Beats&quot; are never even mentioned when Campbell throws out an all encompassing statement like &quot;we have no artists...of such power today&quot;.<br />  Equally troubling is the statement that &quot;all life is suffering, all societies are opressive, and we just have to learn to live with it&quot;.  Now, while it may be true that life is sorrowful and that social orders have, throughout history, tended to be unjust, it does not follow that we have to accept the latter fact with the same passivity as the former.  As Campbell points out, we make the choices that determine the direction of our society.  If everyone, or a strong majority at least, were able to come to the understanding of universal Myth and Divinity, the opression that exists today would decrease, if not dissapear.  The book comes to a climax with an expose of the mythic dimensions of the first moon walk.  The chapter illustrates how we are indeed one planet and one species.  Juxtoposed with &quot;all societies are opressive, and we just have to live with it&quot; however, the chapter's beauty becomes terror.  In this light, the chapter is a prophecy of slavery, not oneness.<br />  Still, this is a very important book, marred as all great works are by the author's prejudices.  When reading this book, remember Buddha's finger pointing at the moon, and which one was more important.have no artists...of such power today&quot;. <br />   Equally troubling is the statement that &quot;all life is suffering, all societies are opressive, and we just have to learn to live with it&quot;.  Now, while it may be true that life is sorrowful and that social orders have, throughout history, tended to be unjust, it does not follow that we have to accept the latter fact with the same passivity as the former.  As Campbell points out, we make the choices that determine the direction of our society.  If everyone, or a strong majority at least, were able to come to the understanding of universal Myth and Divinity, the opression that exists today would decrease, if not dissapear.     The book comes to a climax with an expose of the mythic dimensions of the first moon walk.  The chapter illustrates how we are indeed one planet and one species.  Juxtoposed with &quot;all societies are opressive, and we just have to live with it&quot; however, the chapter's beauty becomes terror.  In this light, the chapter is a prophecy of slavery, not oneness.<br />  Still, this is a very important book, marred as all great works are by the author's prejudices.  When reading this book, remember Buddha's finger pointing at the moon, and which one was more important.	2001-03-10
US	49201088	R28UWNHZKOEU0J	0806520396	848023092	Summoning Forth Wiccan Gods And Goddesses: The Magick of Invocation and Evocation	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Good, solid book...with one flaw	&quot;Summoning forth the Wiccan Gods and Goddesses&quot; is a solid manual for doing just that.  A large portion of the book is made up of psychic preperation for the actual rituals.  This is important, since the technique described here involves actual communication with dieties, which requires a psyche that is both unfettered by old traumas and open to the Universe.  Common sense and experience permeate the work, as does the assumtion that all people have the right to directly communicate with the dieties.    That being said, it is unfortunate to have to point out this book's major flaw.  An intolerance of other religions, and a refusal to evaluate them outside of the author's framework, creeps through this book and adds to it a combative undertone that is totally inappropriate.  The main point of her criticism of other faiths is that they deny the sacredness of the flesh, and that many of the world's holy books constitute &quot;viscious, world hating manifestos&quot;.  To properly evaluate the attitude of the &quot;major&quot; religions toward the mundane world would require a book of its own.  With many, especially the myriad religions lumped under the classification of &quot;Hinduism&quot;, the question is far from a simple either-or proposition.  In any case, the book is about how to summon Wiccan dieties, not the benefits of yoga or lack thereof.   As an adjucnt to the above objection, the author states quite unequivacably that &quot;Ceremonial (Enochian) Magick doesn't work&quot;. First, the terms &quot;Ceremonial&quot; and &quot;Enochian&quot; Magick are not interchangeable.  Enochian Magick is a very difficult, somewhat dangerous, form of magick which falls under the umbrella of Ceremonial Magick, but is by no means the only variety.  Again, the topic is far too intricate to get into its finer points here.  It should be stated, however, that the author presents very little evidence for her thesis other than a very bad experience with a con-artist posing as a real Magus.  As for the argument against such feats of metaphysical athleticism as &quot;invisibility&quot; I would encourage any interested to seek out the Rose Cross Ritual, which does indeed confer a species of invisibility when performed correctly.   Even with this flaw, this is a very good book.  The irony is that the beginning work for the techniques described seems to inavdertantly follow the advice of a renowned Ceremonial Magician.  Israel Regardie, a student of Crowley himself, suggested that anyone interested in Magick should undergo a program of psychotherapy before embarking on the path.  The intent of psychotherapy is precisely the intent of the poppet exercise: to release old trauma and become a healthier participant in life.  There is much to learn from this book, and it would be unfortunate to miss out on its benefits because its occaisionally antagonistic tone.  Perhaps, in future edtions, such comments and biases could be editited out.  Until then, brace yourself and read with an eye for the diamond in the rough that this book has to offer.	2001-03-03
US	49201088	R9W08T1XWJD5P	0913866156	130585051	Aleister Crowley Thoth Tarot Deck	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	One of the best decks available for experienced readers	If you have at least three years of experience with reading one of the many Rider-Waite based decks and want something a bit more challenging, Crowley's Thoth deck is one of the best around.   Crowley departs from the Waite-style decks in several areas.  Certain cards are given different numbers and names.  Strength, for instance, becomes Lust,Temperance is Art, and Justice is Adjustment.  The concept of reversals is replaced by Elemental Dignities, which leads to more nuanced readings.   The system of attributes is based on the Kabbalah, so experience or knowledge of this is helpful as well.  Crowley uses a Golden Dawn derived system of correspondence, but departs from this by moving the Star, as per his communication with Awaiss.   Lady Frieda Harriss' surrealistic artwork perfectly compliments Crowley's wild spiritual vision.  Many of the cards contain not situations, but totally abscract representations.  This makes the deck more useful for deep spiritual readings than for bread and butter divination.  A perfect deck for esoteric contemplation or pre-ritual divination.	2001-02-04
US	49201088	RRKDWUG79MMUG	0875421997	345383096	The Astral Projection Kit	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Good book, slighly superflous tape	The instructions contained in the book, which is available separately, are wonderful suggestions for strengthning the etheric body, projecting its energy, and finally injecting your consciousness into that energy.  The cautions are somewhat elaborate, since the author's point of view is that of Ceremonial Magick.  Overall, though, the book is very useful.   The tape contained in this kit, however, is totally unnecassary.  The relaxation can be memorized and elaborated on by the practitioner.  Once one is truly outside of their body, having a voice tell them what to do or music playing in the background is an invitation to be pulled back by any transition or variation in the tones.  I find the best tool for this sort of work to be a pair of earplugs!  Of course, that's just me.  If you want to have the security of a voice guiding you, that's legitimate as well.  If you think you might feel this way, but the kit.  If you're a silent type like me, buy the book by itself.	2001-02-04
US	49201088	RSUVALUFJXEWU	0877282684	15378642	The Book of Thoth: A Short Essay on the Tarot of the Egyptians, Being the Equinox Volume III No. V	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	Excellent, but vauge in some key areas.	The Book of Thoth is a wonderful companion to the deck of the same name.  It illucidates wonderfully the symbolism Crolwey wished to convey through Lady Harris' art.  The history section is sane and avoids dogmatic pronunciations about the ancient history of the Tarot.  Two things, however, marr what is otherwise a wonderful book.  First, the technique given for reading the cards is likely to stump one's intuitive flow.  Second, Crowley barely touches on the system of Elemental Dignities upon which the deck relies.  Both of these gaps, however, can be filled in by reading elsewhere.  Reccomended.	2001-02-04
US	49201088	R10MP55NEA1NF2	0062516841	51498716	The Twelve Wild Swans: A Journey to the Realm of Magic, Healing, and Action	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Another gem from the Reclaiming Community	All too often, books on the Craft seem superficial.  One is left with the feeling that there is a deeper mystery that is not being explained, a richer, darker, more passionate way to approach the Old Religion.  The works of Starhawk and the Reclaiming Community stand apart from this depressing state of affairs.  Each one unearths deep emotion and is filled with insight.  This is the real thing, and that reality is felt bone deep.<br />  &quot;Twelve Wild Swans&quot; is no exception.  The lessons are based on an old, somewhat unsettling fairy tale.  This story is approached from three different directions that enhance eachother.  The most important thing, in my opinion, is the stress the authors both put on the seriousness of commiting one's self to the Craft.  Witchcraft is a life altering journey, and that journey should not be embarked upon as a fashion statement.  The Outer Path sections make this especially clear.<br />  As a book that stresses dedication and a deep commitment to the Goddess, &quot;Twelve Wild Swans&quot; takes its place as a classic on par with, if not exceeding, &quot;Spiral Dance&quot;.  Thank you Starhawk and the Reclaiming Community!	2001-01-21
US	49201088	RAMZ97IYHWOMX	1871592801	976045446	Sister Midnight	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A strange, poetic book	This short, odd novel is a work of imagination and poetry.  There's no plot to speak of, more a series of juxtapositions (and other kinds of positions) and atmospherics.   Contrary to what the cover says, the Marquis De Sade is very much alive in this book.  He has discovered some occult sexual secret which keeps him alive.  With his sister, Marciana, he enacts incestuous rites of sodomy intended to unite the Marquis with his tutelary female ideal, Laura.  In the end, brother and sister are married, which Sade sees as the culmination of the work of three centuries.   The castle the Marquis inhabits contains a basement that represents his own tortured subconscious.  Much of the novel revolves around a similar use of atmosphere to expound on the Marquis' psychological state.  Even the wine bottled on the estate contains the essence of eternal autumn midnight.   The key contrast comes from the meeting of the House of Sade with another house which is similarly sealed from the outside world.  At a great concert followed by an orgy, we are introduced to an alien &quot;posthuman&quot; named XZ.  The conflict between this guru and the Marquis basically points out the conflict between Nature, represented by Sade in full Pan-ic, and technology represented by the trancsendental XZ.   &quot;Sister Midnight&quot; is a difficult, sometimes disturbing book.  Some of the metaphors, such as Sade's whip, are never fully fleshed out.  One wonders why it was added at all.  This, and other elements, lend an unnerving quality to the book.  Whether that was the intent, or just an oversight is difficult to say.  Either way, the book is not for senstitive readers.  For those with a stronger psycholgy, however, &quot;Sister MIdnight&quot; is an odd but interesting work sure to make one think if nothing else.	2001-01-20
US	49201088	R2I1IE9GPH3PL8	0802132189	415743636	Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings	Books	5	133	157	N	Y	Centuries ahead of its time	It is little wonder that the Marquis De Sade spent the last years of his life in a madhouse.  Anyone as far ahead of his time as he was is sure to be considered insane by his contemporaries.  This collection of his work is exhaustive, and deliciously exausting.  You not only get &quot;Justine&quot; and &quot;Philosophy in the Bedroom&quot;, there are many shorter works and a collection of De Sade's letters.  All of these paint a picture of a man and a philosophy that was at least 150 years ahead of the morals and thought of his period.  Sade not only anticipates Freud and Niezche, he goes beyond them.  He declares homosexuality natural and advocates a woman's right to choose.  The cruelty Sade is known for is the natural outgrowth of his philosophy and the pervailing attitude toward Nature during his life.  Nature is the only real ruler of man, he says.  Nature is sometimes cruel, indeed in the view of Western Civilization, Nature is always cruel.  Therefore, says the Marquis, humans, if they are to be in harmony with the only true governing force, must allow themselves to at least imagine being cruel.  Now, while one might criticize the Marquis for not being able to cross the rubicon with his views on Nature as he did with homosexuality, the fact remains that the conclusion is logical within De Sade's framework.  This is not a collection for those seeking light erotica.  Indeed, some of the situations described are the exact opposite of erotic.  Read as philosophy, as the Marquis intended, his work is an earth shattering precursor to the modern and post modernist movement.  This colection goes a long way in wresting Sade's name away from the pathology that unfortunatly bears his name.	2001-01-13
US	49201088	R3JY1MCVQD326I	1567182542	191329023	Wiccan Mysteries: Ancient Origins & Teachings	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of the best books available on the Craft	This book is important, because it grounds modern paganism in a tradition that goes back to the earliest humans.  Grimassi makes it clear to anyone who actually reads the sections on history that this tradtition changed and grew, but its core values such as reverance for Nature remained.  His sources includethe scholarly segment of the Goddess history movement, and the view of the older, matrifocal societies is balanced, rather than romanticized.  History, however, is not the main focus of the book.  The real intent of the book is to expose the roots of the Wiccan faith, whether one beleives it to be a genuine survival or a reconstuction.  Grimassi touches on everything from the Watchers to chakras (universally percieved energy centers NOT uniqueley Eastern)as well as examining the sacred texts of the Craft in detail.  I enjoyed this book and reccomend it to anyone interested in the deeper aspects of the Craft.	2001-01-07
US	49201088	RSE3WACVAXLU	0835607798	10708850	The Real World of Fairies: A First-Person Account	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Delightful book	Dora Von Gelder Kunz here presents her experience of the world of fairy.  In almost anthropological detail she describes different kinds of fairies and the angels that guide them.  All the descriptions contain personal anecdotes of the author's own contact with the realm that lies just in the corner of our eyes.  Now, of course Von Gelder could be making all this up.  If she is, then this work is a startling work of detailed imagination.  If she's not, then we would do well to heed her words.  Either way, this book is a delightful way to awaken one's wonder of the natural world.  Forget &quot;science&quot; for a moment, and open your heart.	2001-01-06
US	49201088	R1LW0U66MFZXQ3	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Wonderful, if occasionally repetitive	This book is based on a very simple idea, one which seems almost like a Copernican inversion.  That is, the Universe is intellegent enough to keep a billion trillion stars or more spinning in heavens and a billion trillion cells in every organism on this planet in working harmony.  Therefore, its probably intellegent enough to solve your problems.  Chopra explains the process of becoming sensitive to this greater intellegence, and allowing it to work through you.  He uses seven laws, though these laws seem to be more conventions for division that actual principles.  In truth, they really all blend together.  The interrelatedness of the different sections leads to a repetitive feeling that can give the impression that you've read a passage before,which may cause you to skip the paragraph and thus miss a new point that has been made.  This is only the real drawback to the book.  Otherwise, I wouldn't hesitate to reccomend this book to anyone interested in finding deeper solutions to their worries.	2001-01-06
US	49201088	R314BZNCRFNKH3	1567180264	886018834	Crystal Balls & Crystal Bowls: Tools for Ancient Scrying & Modern Seership (Crystals and New Age)	Books	3	59	60	N	Y	Useful	If Llewellen had better editors, this would be a better book.  There's a lot of useful information, techniques, and ideas for using crystal balls and bowls.  This may also be the first occult book ever to include a maze with a rabbit chasing after a carrot. (There's a reason for it.  The mazes are intended to train your psychic perceptions.)  However, the book is poorly organized and edited.  There are multiple redundancies of phrase such as &quot;free choice&quot;.  Sections which appear to depend on certain techniques being mastered are included before the techniques are explained.  For instance, it seems common sense to put sections on attuning with the energy of a crystal ball before trance techniques intended to contact an anthropormorphized version of the ball's &quot;angel&quot;.  If you reverse the process, you'll just be projecting your ideas of what the &quot;angel&quot; is like.  The second section is just plain garbled.  I found myself having to read paragraphs two or three times just to figure out what Andrews was trying to say.  It looks like he was trying to pack information into the section, and couldn't quite figure out where it fit.  This is, of course, part of an editor's job.  If something doesn't fit where it is, suggest a way to move it or create another subsection where it might find a home.  It's a shame that such useful information has to be put together so poorly.  But it IS useful, and I recommend the book to anyone interested in crytsal gazing, so long as they're patient and willing to seperate the wheat from the chaff.	2000-12-30
US	49201088	R1UIOPBQX868ZE	1567181414	299292459	A Garden of Pomegranates: Skrying on the Tree of Life	Books	5	66	71	N	Y	Indispensable sourcework	This book is totally indespensable for anyone interested in the Practical Kabbalah.  I only regret that I purchased three books which covered different aspects of the material contained in this volume without checking out the &quot;Garden&quot; first.  Don't make the same mistake.  Most modern texts are versions of bits and pieces of this one.   The editors' contribution, which constitutes half of the edition, contains practical meditations that illuminate the different paths beautifully.  There are also instructions for Scrying in the Sprit Vision and actual pathworking.  I only wish all modern writers on the Kabbalah took the approach the Ciceros do.  That is, taking an existing classic, adding footnotes to clear up confusion, then giving practical suggestions for its usage.  This is much better than the typical proccedure of throwing together a cribbed version of ohter's work and passing it off as your own.   Highly, highly reccomended.	2000-12-24
US	49201088	R3L2QPXFWUJU45	1567183948	369039919	Modern Sex Magick: Secrets of Erotic Spirituality	Books	3	33	39	N	N	Informative, but sort of dull	&quot;Modern Sex Magick&quot; by DM Kraig contains a great deal of useful information and techniques.  The chapters are set up logically, beginning with monfocal sex magic and proceeding to polyfocal opererations.  There's even a section on bondage and sadomasochism.  The sections by three female practitioners are a good balance to Kraig's style of writng.    And it is this style that is the book's main debility.  Kraig burdens the book with so many qualifications and concessions to political correctness that he actually makes the subject of sex magick seem kind of boring.  After the tenth description of the same idea with a new variation, one enters an intellectual coma, rather than wanting to experience a state of &quot;erotocomatose lucidity&quot;.   The other objection is the minimalization of Crowley's contribution to this area.  This feels like reading a book on classical music that leaves out Beethoven.   The most interesting part of the book (apart from the guest contributers) is the totally speculative section on Jewish sex magick and the &quot;hidden secrets of the Golden Dawn&quot;.  This section, however, suffers just as much from Kraig's milktoast writing style as the rest of the book.   However, if one is patient enough to bear this, &quot;Modern Sex Magick&quot; is a very good introduction to a realm of magick which is generally left out of the mainstream.   Provisionally reccomended.	2000-12-24
US	49201088	R1A38GL2KTVCJB	0877286868	716434860	The Holy Books of Thelema	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	Crowley's Legacy	The Holy books of Thelema stand quite apart from the technical works Crowley wrote throughout his life.  They were &quot;received&quot; or channeled if you will, rather than developed by Crowley's ego (by which I mean his mortal psyche).  Every Liber is a gem, proving to anyone who reads them with an open mind that Crowley was a true prophet.   Within you will find not only the Book of the Law, but the Liber Lapis Lazuli and the Book of the Heart Gird Round by the Serpent.  The latter is a spiritual masterpiece equal to Liber AL.   I reccomend that the Holy Books be read slowly, perhaps a passage at a time.  That way, they'll sink in.	2000-12-24
US	49201088	R3AQPTKD7DYXG7	0877288801	257215836	The Witches Qabala: The Pagan Path and the Tree of Life	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Important	Ellen Cannon Reed's book on the interface between Kabbalah and Witchcraft is an important work. For Pagan's interested in using the Practical Kabbalh in their magick, it is a good place to begin.  The best feature of the book is the relating of the Sefiroth (the spheres on the Tree of Life) to the passages in the Charge of the Goddess.   I deducted one star for the ambiguities surrounding the practice of Rising on the Planes.  The technique given for this is not, in fact, Rising on the Planes, but a description of a useful technique for attuning to the energies of a particular Sephrira in preparation for actual pathworking. Despite this drawback (one which is unfortunatly all too common in books on Practical Kabbalah) Reed's book is excellent and should be on every Witch's shelf.   Very highly reccomended.	2000-12-24
US	49201088	R27RE2LKR4JQKM	0786707615	488494190	Midnight Butterfly	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sweet book	&quot;Midnight Butterfly&quot; is a sweet, moving story about a girl emerging as a woman.  Under the tutelage of a high class call gorl and two angels form both heaven and hell, the protagonist Ellen is taught the ways of sex, seduction, and unfolding Will.  The characters are all likable, and the story is a good blend of both Ellen's fantasies and her actual experiences.  These scenes are all incredibly sexy, save for the fantasies which are intentionally cliche to show Ellen's moribund existance in a small town.  The no boundaries attitude of the fantasies allows Ellen to discover her boundaries in actual life.  They show that sex is more than mechanical copulation.  There's an &quot;everyone's sexy&quot; outlook that is very empowering.  Sexuality connects every aspect of Ellnen's life,and helps her find her ture place in the world.  The book may be a little PC for some.  Lloyd insistance on safe sex in nearly every scene proves a bit distracting.  Overall, though, this is a great book about a someone discovering who they really are.<br />Recomended.	2000-12-16
US	49201088	R1DDNPM5MR7ENP	0875426700	284563643	Tarot Spells (Llewellyn's New Age Tarot Series)	Books	3	12	21	N	N	Okay for those just starting to learn Tarot	If you're just starting to learn about the Tarot, this book Tarot Spells will give you an interesting new avenue to explore.  Each spell is basically a progressive layout designed to provoke your subconscious into the action necassary for magick.   More experienced Tarot readers and studenst will find the spells a bit tricky.  The interpretations of the cards used here are the most basic ones.  So, if you use Elemental Dignities or the Kaballah (I use both) the spells can actually seem to be opposed to the stated goal.  The best advice for the advanced cartomanticist is to use the book as a framework for developing more nuanced layouts.  This way, your subconscious won't rebel when you give it conflicting instructions.   Recomended primarily for beginners.  For iimediate and advanced levels only if they wish to use the book as a framwork, not as a grimior.	2000-12-16
US	49201088	RAL7S62EZIW7X	051770434X	98052266	The Way of the Wizard: Twenty Spiritual Lessons for Creating the Life You Want	Books	3	11	16	N	N	New-Agey, but good	The Way of The Wizard takes the reader through a 20 step program to induce a relaxed, aware state of being from which true magic can arise.  The practices are equal to any sytem of meditation or yoga, and followed through to the end &quot;without lust of result&quot; (Crowley, not Chopra) will bring about the sate of being described.  That being said, the book has the obvious flaw of New Age oversimplifation.  THe natural paralells with the occult are watered down for the bourgoise audience.  The use of Merlin is mythologically absurd.  This is acceptable in the context of this work, however, since it is not intended as a tretis on Merlin.  Rather, Merlin is used as an archetype of fulfillment and mastery of life.  Recommended with reservations.	2000-12-10
US	49201088	R2XHIFM99JBR3F	0786705868	974418565	The Mammoth Book of Historical Erotica (Mammoth Books)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Okay	&quot;Historical&quot;  is not, perhaps, the best way to describe this book.  The stories use different time periods as their settings, with the preponderance of them focusing on either the Victorian period in England or France during and after the &quot;Terror&quot;.  Most of these are quite good.  One of the best stories, however, is the tale entitled simply &quot;Garden&quot;.  This story goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden (not an historical period, but never mind).  &quot;Garden&quot; is deliciously heretical, with hints of sexual awakening.   The book turns inevitably to sadomasichism.  This is due to the fact that one can only write their favorite words for genitalia so many times.  Some of the stories are merely poorly drawn character studies where the author takes forever to get to the real business of erotica, if they ever do.  Some of the tales fail to meet the &quot;wet test&quot; altogether.   Recomended, as long as you don't mind skipping stories.	2000-12-10
US	49201088	RQM8PP9AJLVAF	0965083934	874829889	Magical Images and the Magical Imagination : A Practical	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Good book on trance work	Trancework is a much neglected topic in occult literature.  Most books fixate on ritual technique and give little if any information on inner workings.  &quot;Magical Images. . .&quot; is a bit different.  Knight shows how trance works, and gives a more or less kabbalistic outline for structurng a trance journey.  The writing of the trances is exceptionally evocative. drawing on kabbalistic and Arthurian imagery to create it pattern.  The book loses one star for its misleading title.  Magical images are, technically, thoughtforms built up on the astral and imbued with life by the magician.  While trancework can be vital in this practice, it is not nessacary.  All and all, however, this is a good book for those interested in broadening their Work and strengthening the muscles of creative visualization.  Recomended.	2000-12-10
US	49201088	R2Z93EJEH6Q19X	1577310128	987345364	The Art of True Healing: The Unlimited Power of Prayer and Visualization	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A concise program for dialy meditation	The Middle Pillar Exercise, like any routine alignment of the etheric and physical bodies, is a benifiacial way to promote good health and a positive outlook.  These two things are a prerequisite for a fulfilling life.   In The Ture Art of Healing, Israel Regardie presents a solid, clearly defined program for using this powerful technique daily.  THe instructions are easy to follow, divorced from the mystical gobbelty gook that permeates much of the Western Inner Tradtion.     Of course, this book was not written for practitioners of that tradition.  It was written for everyone.  THose involved in magick will undoubtedly find some bits very odd indeed.  Regardie's  pronunciation of the Tetragrammaton, for instance, will give many ceremonial magicians fits.  Also, the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram, usually regaurded as a nessacary part of a magickal routine, is absent here.  Most of the trappings of magick, in fact, have been stripped away to reveal the core technique which can be used by anyone.  Regardie used this program as part of his psychological therapy, and since none of his clients were struck down by lightning, we can safely assume that his premise that the Middle Pillar is a valuable healing tool for everyone is correct.   Recomended mainly for non-magicians	2000-12-09
US	49201088	R1NG4HCJIXUJ19	1567181406	508457783	The Middle Pillar: The Balance Between Mind and Magic	Books	5	23	24	N	N	An expanded edition of a classic	The Middle Pillar is one of Regardie's best works.  It lucidly explains the correlation between the Tree of Life and the human body, and how certain energy centers are activated for magick.   This edition expands on the original.  Included are the musical notes for the various rituals, versions of the rituals in languages other the Hebrew, and an essay on Regaries feelings about psychology.  The hope is to present basic magical technique as a dovetail to therapy.  The additional material contains good information in this area, mostly based on conversations between the Regaride and the Cisoeros.  As occultism and psychology are both interests of mine, I loved this book.  Recommended for intermidiate magicians and psychotherapists.	2000-12-09
US	49201088	RF8OAW11C0EEZ	0785278818	40634365	In The Name Of Satan: How The Forces Of Evil Work And What You Can Do To Defeat Them	Books	1	14	29	N	N	Hilarious dreck!	Bob Larson is the funniest man on television.  An impotent Cotton Mathers with greasy skin and sleazball suit, he trumpets his gospel of paranoia to a captive audience (most of his parishoners undoubtedly having come from a mental hospital).   This book follws the grand tradition of Montegue Summers and Hal Lindsay.  Meaning that its a mix of misinformation and fictions arising from a psyche that would make a Freudian scream with delight.  Witness the demoniac origin of masturbation illucidated in this massive slander, and see what I mean.   Page after page of this book is an insult to every religion besides the authors own.  Buddhism, Hinduism, Wicca, and yes, Satanism are all flagrently misrepresented.  Larson's exploits among his wicked quaries  are enough to make Max Weber give up anthropology and take up coin collecting.  Has the man never heard of &quot;valueless anthropology&quot;?   Recomended for a good laugh, after which it should be promptly consigned to the flames of a Solstice needfire.	2000-12-09
US	49201088	R3M48K28XTGZ66	0877288569	125212717	Magical Diaries of Aleister Crowley: Tunisia 1923	Books	3	9	14	N	Y	Tedious	While this book is useful, both as a psychological survey and as a guide for astologial planning, its over all feel is one of pure tedium.  Gone is Crowley's deft use of the English language.  The editing is slight, to preserve the content of writing not intended for publication.   These diaries reflect what was actually the downward slope of Crowley's life.  The Abbey at Cefalu is dissolving.  His relationship with the most intense Scarlet Woman has gone sour.  Crowley's physical health has gone down hill as well. We learn more about the Mega Therion's bowel movements, lung problems, and drug addiction than we ever wanted to know.  The tone of the diaries is one of depression and struggle.  There's even a contemplation of sucide.   Perhaps those pencil pushers of the occult world, the Gematriasts, will find Crowley's endless calculations interesting.  For those of of not so inclined, they are laborious reading.  They do, however, show Crowley's fantastic ability to relate everything to the Law of Thelema.  The intepretations of the I Ching are also interesting, and give us an idea of how Crowley's inner senses worked.   This volume is only recomended for people seriously interested in Crowley as a person, as well as the Mega Therion, Bophomet, ect ad nauseum.	2000-12-09
US	49201088	RKIYQV9PLLBRR	1563891336	45969474	Death: The High Cost of Living	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Ah, Sweet Death!	If I could, I would give this book as many stars as are known to human astornomy!  Death, the sweet little goth sister of Morpheus, here shines on her own.  She is Death in the most benevolent manifestation.  Her job is to teach those about to die how to get their life in order before they pass on.  In this story, she helps out a young man with some definate karma to purge.   I love Death, and recommend you get to know her too.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R1B9Z2JXFZRZD4	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An exposition of the false values of our society	This book follows the story of Pheadrus (Pirsig himself) through a disillusionment with the constraints of Wetern Philosophy and Science.  In page after page of this &quot;Chotoqua&quot;, Pirsig reveals how our culture is wreck of valueless, empty rationalism with no concern for Quality.  He doesn't however, leave it there.  He then goes onto explain ways of injecting Quality into one's life throught the metaphor of a motorcycle.<br />To be read at least once a year, ideally around the Winter Solstice.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R2QD4I3Z5YWQAG	087542127X	397715296	The Truth About Witchcraft Today (Truth About Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	My introduction to the Craft	I read this book at 17.  It served as my first introduction to the Craft of the Wise.  Within, Cunningham seperates the religion of Wicca from Folk magick and explains each in turn.  He also gives a brief description of other systems of magick, and explains the differences between them and Wicca.   Cunningham designed all his books in the most efficient way possible.  This book is recomended for explorerers, and as a good book to give family who want to know what your up to when all that incense smoke stars billowing out of you room!	2000-12-03
US	49201088	RBHKOJKR4H2ON	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A modern myth for the New Aeon	Thou art God.  That is the message of this book.  It is a truth so alien to our culture that it may as well have come from Mars, and so Heinlein personifies it as a Martian/Human name Velentine Michael Smith.  Embedded in a delightful story is some very indulgent propaganda that, for all its didacticism, is thrilling.  One leaves the book feeling empowered, as though they have been reborn.   To be read at least once a year, preferably around the Spring Equinox.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R3MPFQHI6ZGKW0	156718264X	843030068	Tarot Journeys: Adventures in Self-Transformation	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Galenorn does it again!	Taort Journey's represents, in my opinion, a watershed in the creative talents of Miss Galenorn.  The meditations in this book are deeply evocative, channeling the ture essence of every card.   The author does not merely stop at one deck.  She uses several to glean the material for the meditations.  In the HIgh Priestess we see shades of Crowley.  The Empress draws upon more Pagan decks.  The meditations build on eachother, so that they really exist as an entire Quest.   Tarot Journeys includes a CD with two of the meditations recorded by a professional voice actor.  These are wonderful, and one only wishes the entire book had been treated thus.   For anyone seeking to know the Tarot, this book is delightful.  Even if you couldn't care less about cartomancy, the Fool's Journey will evoke the Deepr nature within you.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R38HID0LWWPWER	0671876872	344308070	The Fire Rose	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun!	This story of a San Francisco governess and a magician turned werewolf is an entertaining blend of magic and love.  Lacky manages to steer clear of the Disneyfication that could have cropped up in the tale.  Alongside the archetypal fairy tale are Chinatown whorehouses and the genral squaller of the seedier part of San Fransisco circa the early 2oth century.   Recomended for those times when your head has been buried in Crowley for three weeks and feels as though its about to explode!	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R2Q5NTMJI5G6IA	0875421318	478461174	Earth, Air, Fire & Water: More Techniques of Natural Magic (Llewellyn's Practical Magick Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Another solid, beginners book of natural magick	Basically an extension of Eatrh Power, this book takes you through many of the same steps.  New additions include Snow Magick.   Recomended for those interested in exploring  natural magick.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R223WS7XDPFB8I	1567183034	542172746	Trancing the Witch's Wheel: A Guide to Magickal Meditation	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Absolutely essential!	This work, the first of Galenorn's, is a wonderful journey through the season's and the elements.  Each meditation is a lesson, an unfolding story that absorbs you in every trance.  The Sabbat meditations strike an especially deep chord.   Trancing the Witch's Wheel is essetial.  It is especially useful to those oppressed solitaries who, living with families who wouldn't understand, can neither afford fiancially or emotinally to drag out a million different tools every time a High holiday rolls around.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R34NZF8SPGGL5B	1561840076	303720680	Eight Lectures on Yoga	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Straight to the heart of Yoga	This book is an excellent example of Crowley's two main strengtss as a writer: to get to the heart of an apparently obscure subject, and the use of humor to disarm the audience and provoke insight.  The latter of these can, if the reader takes it too seriously, detract from the former.   The first half of the book, &quot;Yoga for Yahoos&quot;, is the strongest by far.  Here crowley explains the practical &quot;limbs&quot; of yoga that are nessecary preperations for practice.  The exposition is lucid.   The second, &quot;Yoga for Yellowbellies&quot;, suffers from the inability of language to describe anything which is super rational.  &quot;Yellowbellies&quot; tends to ramble a bit, especially when the Beast begins weaving in modern physics.  You have to get to the end to come to the realization that, for the most part, this synthesis is a literary joke.  Yoga is beyond science and reason.  Again, for those with little sense of humor, this can be frustrating.  However, the final stroke, the proof that Yoga dovetails with, and perfectly justifies, the Law of Thelema, is an ecstatic literary experince you shouldn't miss. The technique of progressive visualization is very useful as well.<br />  Recomended.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	RR2948AU41T6V	0898041376	396740672	The Secrets of Dr. Taverner	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Fun, light mystical reading	The Secrets of Dr. Taverner is a fun book, with lots of esoteric philospophy lacing a Sherlock Holmeslike psychologist.  The sperate stories take place in a &quot;nursing home&quot; -i.e a mental hospital. run by Taverner in a most eccentric way.  The doctor uses his training as an initiate of the Western Mysteries to solve his clients &quot;issues&quot;.  These issues run the gammut, between vampirism and faery lineage, to psychic manipulation and past life transgressions.   OF course, the book is absolutley studded with examples of the author's aristocratic prejudices.  Once or twice I had to stop and exclaim to my self &quot;God! Could this woman be WHITER?!!&quot;   That being said, Secrets really is a good book.  Like all of Fortune's work, once you get over the initial shock of reading the words of an early 20th centurie bourgoise, its thourougly enjoyable	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R2WL7WJ1YQYJN0	0877288461	475138818	Tao Te Ching: Liber 157 (The Equinox, Vol. 3, No. 8)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Dry, but worthwhile	Crowley's intepretation of the Taoist classic is very illuminating, showing if nothing else the flexibility of the Law of Thelema.  The book is a peircing look into Crowley's own sycretist mind.   However, Crowley's technique of intepretation leads to a very dry reading of the text.  The book is set up like a typical Thelemic Liber, with paragraph headings and so forth.  The chapters are written in prose paragraphs, rather than free verse as other translations.  THus, the poetic power of the text is actually somewhat diminshed.  The inclusion of footnotes to  explain things is very unTaoist in spirit.   Overall, however, Crowley's Toa Te Ching is a very illuminating read.  It shows that the Law truly is for all, and that it has been hiding for centuries.  This, if nothing else, makes the book worthwhile.<br />  Provisionally reccomended	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R2T23JUOF4UOYS	0312858310	728673628	Witchlight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	As good as the first, with more character development	THis novel continues the **Light series.  As with Ghostlight, the fictional magickal system is quite realistice, though with certain leaps of imagination that might be occultically impossible.  I say &quot;might&quot; because that phrase is itself a troubling one.  Can we really say that a magickal childe cannot form its own consciousness and go beyond it's creator's intnet intent?  In any case, the diversions from acccepted theory help keep the general reader from getting bogged down in explinations of magick that can't possibly be all that intersting to those interested in the mystery of an occult novel, not its minute acuracies or innacuracies.   The storyline is more intimate than Ghostlight.  We learn more about Winter's family, and more about Truth Jourdemain, than the above novel allowed for.     Those concerned about occult accuracy, which overall is quite present in this novel, should pardon leaps of imagination.  It is, when all is said and done, a FANTASY.  Don't take it so bloody seriously.<br />  Recommended.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R3M34CYD50TYTK	0875421210	279236885	Earth Power: Techniques of Natural Magic (Llewellyn's Practical Magick)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A solid beginer's grimoir	Cunningham goes over charging, elemental correspondences, and a very simple kind of sympatetic magick.  This book will get anyone interested in natural magick started.  Cunningham's style, as usual, is lucid and logical.   Recommended for those just beginning to explore the Craft.	2000-12-03
US	49201088	R2ZVLLUITB8RFI	0312252439	859125624	Do What Thou Wilt: A Life of Aleister Crowley	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Tragedy of the Beast	(actually, 31/2 stars)   The story of Mr. Crowley is one of the most poinant tragedies I've ever come across.  Niechze's descent into madness is the only adequate paralell I know of.  Madness would have been a kinder punishment for the Beast.  He had to live out his life in total awareness of his pain.  A great magus he was, but his Vision was to big for the small Victorian ego it inhabited.  Crowley was unable to overcome his arisitcratic training, and thus his revelation became as poison unto him.   In a Just-the-facts biography, Lawrence Sutin chronicles the Tragedy of the Beast.  The work is  well done, doing its best to avoid rumor and vitriol condemnation.  Much of the information comes from Crowley's own diaries and the words of the people who knew him.  I also appriciated the fact that Sutin does not end with any sort of Asopian Moral to the Story.  The tale provides its own moral as the reader interprets it.   There are a few stylistic problems, however, marr what is otherwise a wonderful book.  First, Sutin throws around terms like Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram without suspecting that some readers might not know what he's talking about.  Throughout, he assumes a primer knowledge of the rites of Ceremonial Magick that the reader may not posees.  Also, his endnotes are confusing and referance to them hampers the flow of reading.   I recomend this book for any who want to understand the Master Therion.  It is a tragedy on par with Promethius.	2000-11-25
US	49201088	RQ5FU2NEO0NE6	0877288747	838022534	Practical Solitary Magic	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	Recomended with due caution	Ms. Watson's book is a wonderful step by step guide to creating a ritual.  There are plenty of annecdotes-always appreciated in occult books, where the author can come off as damn near godlike if they don't watch themselves.  Watson's reasoning is easily understood, and the exercises constructed in a logical manner.  Overall, this is an exxelent book.   There are however, 3 flaws that stuck out at me when I read the book.  One is relativley minor, the other two could cause major problems if the reader is not aware of them before hand.   First, the minor one.  Watson's footnotes are in chaos.  There is no regular pattern to their placement, and in one case they repeat themselves.  It really very distracting.   One of the major flaws is that Watson references the Chakra system, in one case relying heavily on it, without giving the reader an overview of the subject.  She just jumps right into them, with only the barest idea given as to how the system works. I would recomend Anodea Judtih's Wheels of Light as a good introduction to a very complex system.   The other problem is the personality test that gets quite a lot of mileage in the book.  THe test itself is slightly confusing, and I often ended up picking the respnse that was closest to what I actually thought, rather than the one that resonated with my spirit.  Many of the answers seemed to be the same anwser, in my opninion.  While I feel that the assesment given by the test is more or less accurate, I don't quite trust it.  Certainly not enough to base work with elementals on.  And Watson is pretty clear about the dangers of working with elementals that go against your nature.   Other than these tow considerations, the book is excellent.  Anyone interested in ritual magic should read it at least once.	2000-11-12
US	49201088	R3AGLQG4YHLD9D	0877284245	566086851	Sea Priestess	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Enchanting	For those of us with a certain relationship to the Moon, this book is a treasure.  Fortune's theme is expressed vividly and wonderfully in this book about the unveiling of the hidden nature in men and women.  The initiation sequence leaves me breathless everytime.  Of course, there's also about 50 pages left after that, which makes the book feel uneven.  Also, the class and race attitudes of the 1930's are apparent in some minor passages.  Don't let the fact that the bbok was written in by a bourgiose professional in the 30's deter you-this is truly a wonderful book.	2000-11-11
US	49201088	R1YKNDUJ6TK916	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Thrilling, wonderful, though a bit preachy	This book is one of the few to reveal the Spirit of the Arthur legen, the spirit of Avalon.  This is a very real place, if you know how to get there.  The great strength of this book is that it makes you want to.  However, I would actually take off half a star for the heavy handedness that permeates the conflict between Augistinian Christainity and British Paganism.  In places it slows down a book which some readers may find is overlong to begin with.  For those who like to live with their books for awhile, Mists of Avalon is a treasure, dispite its flaws.	2000-11-05
US	49201088	R2DBUP8K0MRSI3	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of my Favorites	This book has been a favorite of mine since I first read it at the age of 15 (it was the 10th SK book I'd read by that time.)  The plot is complex, and the manner King uses to tell it is very different from what some are used to.  Once you realize how he's threading evrything together, it all sings beautifully.  Read this book.  Many times	2000-11-05
US	49201088	R3C1UZKQCC21QS	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Cthulhu calling. . .	The work of H.P Lovecraft always makes me wish one thing:  that the &quot;beings hidious beyond description&quot; would just rise up and take over!  That way we could finally put a rest to all these arrogant, racist academics who have nothing better to do that poke their noses in other peoples (admittedly strange) business.  Another thing I dislike (as hinted above) is Lovecraft's CONSTANT use of the literary cop-out that is &quot;it was horrible beyond description.&quot;  DESCRIBE IT ANYWAY!!  This phrase, or something like it pops up in nearly every story in this volume.  To begin with, from what I can tell, they aren't all THAT horrible.  Just kind of fishy.  Secondly, it cheating.  I gave this book 3 stars because its still fun, even if it does get on your nerves initially.	2000-11-05
US	49201088	R2U3BGVM89GGFZ	1561840904	48659909	The Law Is for All: The Authorized Popular Commentary of Liber Al Vel Legis Sub Figura CCXX, The Book of the Law	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Had!  The Unveiling of Nuit!	Reading the Liber AL can be frustrating if you actually expect to understand the thing.  (foolish Mortal!)  This volume of Crowley's own commentaries clears up most of the confusion.  You find Uncle Al's contridictions made plain, so if complexity in a human being disturbs you, stay away.  Crowley was a Master Therion, not a simple Fool.  The very real anarchism expressed here is libereating in and of itself.  To be read after the Liber AL has had time to sink in.	2000-11-04
US	49201088	R3LX8K3BR96793	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	5	21	25	N	N	The Truth Shall Set You Free	Pagel's book is one of the most lucid expositions of early Christianity available to the general reader.  In this work she goes step by step through the four cannonical gospels to show how the Christian Devil evolved into a unifying symbol of hatred. Her tretis is not really nuetral, but in light of the Inquisition, the 700 Club, and Bob Larson, nuetrality would be the sign of a numbed psyche.  If nothing else, Pagels shows how the concept of Satan in Christianity has marred its message with filth and morbitity.  For those Christians still deluded enough to believe literally in the Bible, it would be too much of a shock to read this book.  This book is for people who wish to rise above the fear they were subjected to in childhood.  (its part of our society.  No one escaped it.)  It is not for the &quot;faithful&quot;.	2000-11-04
US	49201088	RX7PINZKZF3MZ	0877283346	781642352	Book of the Law	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	Nothingness with Twinkles-and bad grammar	The Book of the LAw is perhaps one of the most beautiful, and incomprensible books I've ever read.  I'm compelled to believe that Crowley really did recieve his message from the Angel Aiwaiss.  Crowley was such a master of letters that he rejected this book simply on the basis that its grammer and general development of ideas was horrible from a strict, editorial standpoint.  In any case, wheter you buy this argument or not, read this book.  Read it without &quot;lust for result&quot;, then read the commentaries in both The Law is For all, and the Equninox of the Gods.  Eventually it will all start to come clear.	2000-11-01
US	49201088	R3KUIWAYCIUYVG	1567182550	446443446	Wiccan Magick: Inner Teachings of the Craft	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Informative,indispensable,and flawed all at once	Raven Grimassi has given us a book which does something few books ever do.  He actually explains the HErmetic Mysteries in SIMPLE, DIRECT LANGUAGE YOU CAN UNDERSTAND!  However, there are times when he seems to contradict himself, which I imagine is the fault of Llewellen's bad editing.  Also, in explaining the passage of power from one plane to another, he uses a metaphor which assumes that the hierarchies of our society are somehow mirrors of an Astral Hierarchy.  Other than a few little glitches, the book is very informative, thought mainly for experienced practitioners. Beginners might get a bit confused.	2000-10-25
US	49201088	RWJE69345OZYU	0807010375	140719547	Dreaming the Dark : Magic, Sex, and Politics	Books	5	17	25	N	Y	The Most Important Book You Will Ever Read	In this book Starhawk somehow managed to put together everything I've ever  thought or felt.  She intertwines the aspects of our culture that are  designed to make us slaves and gives them a name. This book was, for me,  the AHA! experience so many occultists speak of.  I had a copy of it that I  had highlighteted extensivly.  Now, as I prerpare to replace it, I realize  that if I highlighteted evwrything important, I would highlight the whole  book.	2000-08-24
US	49201088	RHSPCLHH1LEWP	0312862180	302404025	Ghostlight	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A near perfect modern occult thriller	Marion Zimmer Baradley once rejected a story I submitted to her magazine on the basis that it was too occult.  After reading two of the books from the **Light series I am convinced she knew what she was talking about.   Witchlight revolves around the child of a magickal leader whose character  reads as a cross between Crowley and Leary.  The occultism is very  accurate, and the story is nearly perfect.  There are a few times you want  to slap Truth for her stupidity, but feel you can't really blame her.   She's falling under a spell, after all.  I read this book straight through  in one sitting.  If you like the Darkover books, yo'll enjoy the expansion  of Bradley's occult themes into our present reality.	2000-07-29
