US	49207870	R8HUCKOH32POH	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Novel Told on a Grand Scale	This is the second John Irving novel i've read, the first being the famous The World According to Garp.  While I don't think this novel is quite as good as Garp, it is still a fully developed and thought provoking look at the nature of faith and friendship.  <br />The novel is told from the point of view of Johnny Wheelwright, the best friend Owen Meany, who is of diminutive size and has a distinct and high pitched voice.  The scope of the novel is huge, as it essentially encompasses the entire life story of Owen and Johnny.  Owen is convinced he is the instrument of god and is on earth to do his duty.  The plot of the novel is extremely complex and I won't reveal any tidbits, a lot of the enjoyment of the novel is finding out what unpredictable moment Irving will come up with next.  <br />Though i'm not a very religious person, I was still affected by the deeply personal story Irving has told.  The novel's only flaw is the ending, which isn't awful but it seems a bit contrived.  It is vintage Irving however as he is able to bring several hanging plot threads together into the pivotal and climatic scene.  If you've seen the movie Signs, it's clear where Shalayman got his idea for the ending of his film.  <br />This is novel is an absolute must read for Irving fans and literature fans in general.  It is a wonderful and thought provoking novel that will hold your enjoyment for a long time.	2002-09-25
US	49207870	R3I3M8QCUQO4RO	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	2	4	17	N	N	Very Mediocre	A Passage to India by EM Forster is about two women, Miss. Quested and Mrs. Moore who take a trip to India in order to have Miss. Quested married to Mrs. Moore's son.  When they get their Mrs. Moore meets a local doctor named Aziz, and the two strike up a friendship.  Their friendship however is criticized by the British in the area but they arrange to have a picnic in the caves near by.  In the caves Miss. Quested is seemingly assaulted and we see the full brunt of racialist thought in India.  <BR>    <BR>As entertainment, this novel was decent.  I wasn't compelled or bored, it was simply ok.  As a satire however it was fairly weak.  I found it unconvincing and a weak portrayal of an important subject.  The crime against Miss. Quested was ridiculious and it's hard to believe someone would be that hysterical.  <br />Technically I found the novel to be decent.  I wasn't blown away by Forsters writing even though he wrote it in obvious poetic undertones.  Overall I wasn't greatly impressed with this novel and I wouldn't call it a classic or any sort of statement about racism.  Read some Richard Wright or To Kill a Mockingbird for insight into racialist thought.	2002-07-03
US	49207870	R1H4CA9GFYHYQ8	0684804433	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel	Books	3	37	43	N	N	Good Coming of Age Story	Look Homeward Angel is a rather lengthy and rather wordy coming of age story.  Centered around Eugene Gant, a character modeled on Wolfe himself, the story is an exhaustive and detailed account of his life all the wayh from birth to his leaving for Harvard in his 20's.  <br />I found this book to be an overall enjoyable read but I also found it to drag in some parts,the tone was a bit too sentimental and it was unfocused in parts.  So much time is spent on details and wordiness that the book becomes bogged down at points.  It takes close to 300 pages for Eugene to turn 12.  I didn't think it was possible to find 300 pages worth to write about young childhood.  Wolfe did apparently but none of it was really all that compelling to read.  The tone of it is more than a little sentimental.  Sure the whole point of the book is nostalgia but it gets too weepy for my tastes.  The novel was also unfocused and uneven at times.  Too much time was dedicated to his young life, and not enough to his adolescence and young adult life.  A lot of the time the story focused not on Eugene, but his myriad of sibblings and his parents.  And I wished Ben would stop saying &quot;oh jesus&quot; every sentence.  <br />Wolfe does succeed however in capturing the feel of small town life, and he does present a somewhat enjoyable read.  If the novel was shorter and more focused, it would have been much better.  I recommend Of Human Bondage by WS Maugham or A Portrait of the Artist by James Joyce as better coming of age stories.  Of Human Bondage is more focused and deals more with his later and mature life, and Joyce's novel deals mostly with adolescence and should be read for his groundbreaking style.	2002-06-26
US	49207870	R1788A7E0O312L	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the Greatest Books Ever Written	I had to read this book in high school as a Junior and I didn't really get into it.  In fact I really coasted through the book without really following it too closely.  I decided to reread it and I was much surprised by how much I liked this novel.<br />Fitzgerald has created a great portrait of a tainted American Dream.  Through his character Jay Gatsby we see how the ideals of society have been corrupted. Gatsby made his fortune by dubious means, and pursues irrationally Daisy Buchannan, a very vapid individual who comes to tears over shirts.  This is also symbolic of his the futile pursuit of happiness.<br />Though this novel was written in the 20's, the message is still timeless.  Anyone who thinks this is dated has not looked at the society we live in.  We are practically in another me generation.  People today don't have a care in the world.  Having recently finished high school and being currently in college I have witnessed the sort of carefree vapid sense that most young people have.  They don't have a collective thought in their heads other than drinking and partying.  They also don't seem to care who they hurt in the process, sort of like Daisy and Gatsby in the car.<br />The only drawback I can possibly see with this wonderful novel is the technical skills.  They aren't great but they don't detract from the story.  Fitzgerald does use a limited perspective and he does follow a cohesive plot, so the technical writing isn't too terrible.<br />Overall this is one of the top 10 books I have ever read, and I have read quite extensively.  So don't listen to the negative reviews, read this novel and enjoy it.	2002-06-26
US	49207870	R38Y3KOK5LRV63	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Decent First Novel	Carrie is of course entertaining, what King novel isn't?, but it does have it's problems.  Carrie is about an outcast in a small rural town named Carrie White.  Carrie has a fanatically religious mother and is picked on relentlessly by the other girls in her high school.  When the girls finally push Carrie over the edge in a horrifying scene in the girls shower, she realizes she has telekenisis, and she intends to use it.  <br />Overall Carrie was an entertaining novel.  What I didn't like is the completly unbelievable portrayal of Carries mother.  She doesn't even say anything that isn't fire and brimestone or she doesn't do anything but pray and kick Carrie into the closet.  Most of King's psychopaths are fairly believable, like Jack Mort in Drawing of the Three and Jack Torrance in The Shining, but he misses the mark this time.  I also thought the villians like Chris and Billy were very one dimensional.  They are not complex and they are totally unsympathetic.  <br />I won't grade down to much for these problems because this is his first novel and it's a damn good first novel.  I liked how he used newspaper articles and excerpts from books to fill in the background of characters.  Overall if your a King fan you'll like this, but if your wanting to get into King, read The Shining or Salem's Lot, you'll like those better.	2002-06-26
US	49207870	R54H9SHWAN0X	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Lives Up to Its Name	Dean Koontz's novel Intensity is a fine bit of suspenseful writing that hits the mark completly.  The story involves a woman named Chyna Sheppard who is caught in the middle of a gruesome killers murder of his best friend and her parents while she is visiting.  Miraculously and somewhat implausably she avoids detection by the killer and stows away on his RV.  What ensues is a relentless and and driving thriller that doesn't let up.  <br />The novel is truly an intense read.  Their is about 15 pages of calm before Koontz dives into the action.  Some reviewers have said this book is boring, but I have a hard time seeing how this book is boring.  Even the part where she is in his house and we get development of her character is not boring, but expertly handled.  Koontz uses the age old suspense building technique of waiting to drive the reader crazy with suspense.  <br />The most memorable scene in the novel is when Chyna takes care of Vess's dogs.  I'll remember that one for a long time.<br />The only negatives I feel the book has is some rather convient set of circumstances that allows Chyna to get on the trail of the killer.  Not terrible but somewhat implausable.  <br />Overall this is a first rate thriller and the best Koontz I have read.	2002-06-17
US	49207870	R3QW6MIN7DABIK	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wizard of Oz for the 21st Century!	J.K. Rowling has hit another home run with her fourth instalment of the Muggle confined wizard Harry Potter in \\"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.\\" In this book, our young hero is 14 years old and on his way back to Hogwarts School of Withcraft and Wizardry to the great company of his two best friends Hermione Granger (played by Emma Watson in the movie) and Ron Weasly (Rupert Grint). But before anything that might be construed as boring and anything that will cause learing in our heros, they must first go the biggest sporting event in the wizarding world: The Quidditch World Cup. Dark things are going down right at that time though, which everybody except the villian Lord Voldemort and his faithfull servent Peter \\"Wormtail\\" Pettigrew are not knowing of.<br />This book as everything that a loyal Potter fan and even somebody who hasn't read one can enjoy: adelescent angst at the schools Yule Ball, a sleazy reporter and magic up the wazzoo. Making a very welll plased return in this book as Harry's godfather is Sirius Black who made his debut in the third book, \\"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.\\"<br />The tone and tempo of the series so far has gone flawlessly. The first book is very inoccent and fancyfree, the second one dwells deeper into the darker portions of the characters lives, the third one steps outside of Hogworts and the fourth one takes all three of the themes and crams them together. Most people that I have talked to have said that it is too long, but I think that is what makes it great; the things that happen can't be contained in a 350 page book. The end will make you feel like your watching a reunion on a TV show and waiting to see the rest of the cast join the main character. Mentioned in the essential hospital scene is none other than former Dark Arts teacher Remus Lupin and a name that you might recognize: Arabella Figg.<br />What makes the Harry Potter series much more entertaining than the Lord of the Rings trilogy is that Harry and his friends do more than wonder around and look for a magic ring and actually interact and participate in things that are fun, but also be in periliss danger.<br />Althought this book is much darker (The Death Eaters) it still has a sense of goodness in it that manifests itself perfectly in his godfathers extreme loyalty to Harry. \\"Goblet\\" is the Wizard of Oz of our time and is not only a childrens fantasy novel but also a great detective story and such a fast read that you will want to read it again and again and again.riends do more than wonder around and look for a magic ring and actually interact and participate in things that are fun, but also be in periliss danger.<br />Althought this book is much darker (The Death Eaters) it still has a sense of goodness in it that manifests itself perfectly in his godfathers extreme loyalty to Harry. \\"Goblet\\" is the Wizard of Oz of our time and is not only a childrens fantasy novel but also a great detective story and such a fast read that you will want to read it again and again and again.	2002-06-16
US	49207870	R1T7ODU4DO0ZBE	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	2	8	17	N	N	Too Much Information	Theodore Dreisers massive book An American Tragedy is an almost complete life story of Clyde Griffiths, a man born into a poor relgious family who is corrupted by the society in which he lives and commits an outrageous crime in the name of money and success.  <br />Though Dreisers book has an important message, the story is just weighed down with unneccesary detail.  Attempting to read this exhaustive book is a burden and I don't recommend picking it up unless you have to for some college or high school course.  Dreiser feels the need to put every bit of information that he has researched into the novel.  Granted it is exhaustive and paints an effective picture but it is hell on the reader.  <br />Dreiser also has to be one of the worst technical writers I have ever read.  He is like the anti-Nabokov.  He has absolutley no grasp of language or flow.  Your taught in 11th grade english not to use however and also after every point.<br />I would recommend the movie, A Place in the Sun with Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor.  The movie was enjoyable and you get the message of the story without all the unneccesary typing.  I would also recommend The Great Gatsby, which has the same message and is only around 200 pages long.  I gave the book 2 stars because it does have a point, but I sure didn't enjoy reading it.	2002-06-13
US	49207870	R1YPV7R19RNFDJ	0451518829	990924494	Sons and Lovers	Books	2	1	4	N	N	I Guess I Just Don't Like DH Lawrence	This is the second Lawrence novel I have read, the first being Lady Chatterly's Lover.  I didn't really like it to much but I recognized the man had talent.  He has some of the most elegant prose I have ever read.  I heard this is a superior novel and much more profound so I decided to give it a whirl.<br />Basically I couldn't stand it.  I admit his writing is great, but I just can't get into this.  Maybe it's the subject matter which is kind of strange, or maybe it's just personal taste, I don't know for sure.  I am a great fan of literature of all kinds, but the period of writing from 1910-1925 I don't seem to enjoy.  Sure Joyce wrote some ingenious things, Hemmingway was a great romantic writer but the stuff just doesn't click with me.  Oh well, I gave the book 2 stars because I enjoyed the prose, but that is all I enjoyed.	2002-05-10
US	49207870	R1TFD2OA1PAD1U	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Lust For Life	On the Road tells the story of Sal Paradise and his trips across the country with his idol Dean Moriarty.  The novel is based heavily on Kerouacs life and features several well known &quot;beat&quot; writers like Carlo Marx(Allen Ginsberg) and Old Bull Lee(William Burroughs.)  <br />This novel was highly enjoyable for one reason, the infectious passion the author has for life's experience.  Kerouac writes some beautiful and romantic passages idolizing partying with his buddy Dean all over the country.  Apparently Kerouac wrote this in a burst of inspiration,(he even taped his typewriter pages together) and it shows with his genuinely emotional writing.<br />But spontaneous Prose?  Anyone who has ever struggled to write knows good writing is not spontaneous, it takes time and a lot of effort to shape your ideas into a cohesive and focused effort.  Granted this is good writing but it could have been better.  Sometimes this novel reads like a first draft.  At times Kerouac seems to ramble on, and it's breathless and tiring to read.  If Kerouac would have taken the time to sit down and edit this potentially wonderful book and cut some of the extrenious information then this could have been much much better. <BR> <BR>Still I liked this novel.  Four stars for an almost classic.  It really shows a lust for life, can you dig?	2002-05-09
US	49207870	R1C7E8U5ZGIU4Q	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Fine Novel, But a Bit Uneven	The Stand is the story of the world after it has been decimated by a plague that wipped out over 99% of the worlds population.  The subsequent survivors are drawn towards either Boulder(for the good hearted), or Las Vegas(for everyone else) by dreams of either a dark man called Randall Flagg or Mother Abbigal, a kindly old woman.  When they two groups get together an epic battle of good versus evil takes place, on one side is Randall Flagg's and the other is the the people in Boulder.  <BR>  Overall I feel that The Stand is a generally good novel, but it does have its share of problems.  I'll start with the good.  Character development in the novel is spectacular.  King's vision of individual lives and nuances can only be described with one term, \\"wide screen.\\"  King successfully make a myraid of diffrent characters come to life.  Second King's story is ultimatley intriguing in a Lord of the Flies sense.  King kills off everyone in the world, and it's interesting to watch the survivors calmour to make a new civilization.  Last, but certainly not least is Kings use of suspense and horror.  As always King shows he's a master of suspense, the Alfred Hitchcock of literature.  I feel the scene with Lloyd in prison is one of the most disheartening and suspenseful things I have ever read. <BR>  Now onto the negatives.  The first thing you recognize even before you buy is the massivness of this novel.  It is extremly long, over 1100 pages.  This is a consequence of some well drawn character development but it is still difficult to plow through the text.  Next is the uneveness of the novel. The first part of the story is great.  I would not change a word in the first part of the book, the part chronicling the immigrations to the two towns.  But in the second part it seems a bit to preoccupied with day to day life.  While i'm reading about law enforcement committees and town meetings I keep telling myself I want more crucifyings and Randall Flagg in Vegas.  I was also sad tofind out that one of my favorite characters Nick seems to be totally out of the focus of the novel during the second part.  Instead we get an overdose of the Franny and Stu lovefest.  Finally I felt the resolution to the stuff with Flagg at the end of the novel was extremely corny.  I won't spoil the ending but I think it would have been better served with something more grounded in reality, instead of some faux biblical phenomenon.  <BR>  But overall I would say I greatly enjoyed the novel, if it entertains me I feel the novel is good, and this entertained me and then some.  If your a King fan you'll love this.  If your not, and have an attention span capable of spending a lot of time on a lengthy novel then you'll probably like it also.	2002-05-05
US	49207870	R230PJ3AYANMOR	0312863586	821153252	Dracula	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great story.	Bram Stoker's only popular novel is also one that starteled me to my core. Based in 1800's England, five men, Jonathan Harker, John Seward, Dr. Van Helsing, Queincy Morris and Aurthur Holwood (later called Lord Godlaming) take up the harrowing challange of destroying the most evil being to ever walk this earth: Count Dracula.<br />Very mellow dramatic and with stark discriptions, this book takes you through variaties of emotions and feelings, mostly about the female characters, Lucy Westerna and Mina Murray (later called Mina Harker).<br />Although long and strenuous at times, you always wonder \\"what next,\\" even though you know the answer...maybe. The book is written in the form of several journal entries, which enhances the effect in the fact that you get each persons perpective in a varity of way and from each person, but also harbors it by limiting what each individual can think at certain times. Stoker brings you through feelings of pity for the victims of the vampires also, playing with the most basic of human emotions.<br />The tone of the book increases steadly while the characters develop better than expected. My second vampire novel, it barely tops \\"Interview With The Vampire,\\" which also left me breathless.	2002-04-23
US	49207870	R36UP0DICO8BUP	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books written this century!	I don't use those words much to describe a book, but book deserves it with the utmost regard. Based in the small southern town of Maycomb, Alabama in the 1930's, it chroniciles the life of Scout Finch, a mischevies little girl with a heart of gold. Her brother Jem, is a tough boy who looks after Scout with all his heart. They meet a young boy who blends in well with them named Dill. <br />Based around the rape trial of a black man, Tom Robinson, it drives through emotions that you wouldn't even believed that you had. One of the greatest scenes in literature is when Atticus, Jem and Scouts father, shoots the wandering dog, left me breathless. <br />If you have a love for anything, read this book, it is really great.	2002-04-23
US	49207870	R2YUF9CQZ74MM7	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	1	3	30	N	N	Really, truely, one of the most boring books ever.	Although many people believe that \\"The Fellowship of the Ring\\" is a classic novel of its time, it is not. Granted it opened up many doors for the half hearted fantasy writing of today, it still used plane, boring and ohhhhh so long descriptions. What I don't understand is how JRR Tolkien could take a great idea about four young chaps (who happen to be midgets which kills alot of the drama for me) on a harrowing adventure to destory the ring that the evil one wants so he can take over middle-Earth. The whole book went through a phase of Duex Machinea where Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin where either saved by friendly hobbits, not so friendly hobbits, friendly Elves, not so friendly Elves, or friendly Men or not so friendly Men. Startaling trasitions from numbly simiple to madingly difficult dialog made the book jump from one pace to another. Tolkien didn't use mounting suspense through the book, but manic-depressive, spasmatic jumps. Putting a song in the middle of one of the few exciting scenes breaks the pace, and leaves the reader starting all over again, feeling bland. Altogether, the book was my least favorite \\"classic.\\"	2002-04-17
US	49207870	R270WPDV6F5JKS	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tough but a good read	Ulysses has got to be the most difficult thing I have ever read.  Being as tough as it is to read, I can see why their is a lot of negative reviews about this book.  Most people feel for a book to be good it has to be action packed and fastly paced with a bunch of characters that you like.  <BR>  Well Ulysses has really none of those things, unless you can identify with Bloom or Stephen then you'll probably like them.  When you pick up Ulysses you need to get some help.  I read the guide by Gilbert along with the text and it helped me a lot.  Without a guide Ulysses can be even harder than than it normally is. <BR>  You also should not expect any major or huge events to happen.  Nobody dies or anything exciting like that.  <BR>  Lastly you need to get into a mindset that what your going to be reading is extremly hard, but with a little patience it can be extremly rewarding.  <BR>  Now, without further ado, I will review Ulysses.  I gave the book five stars, but it is not an unqualified five star review.  When reading Ulysses in it's entirety, some parts are classic while other parts just seem unneccesary. For example, the Hades episode is the best in the book and probably the best example of realistic writing in the english language.  Most of the other episodes are also great, but a few are just a burden to read.  The Oxen of the Sun episode in my opinion is pointless.  Joyce seems to like the fact that he can write in middle english, so he does.  I'm no expert on middle english, but it's damn hard to read and it disrupts any flow the book had.  If you can sort out the slang at the end of Oxen of the Sun then I congragulate you, because it was totally lost on me.  The Ithaca episode is another example.  It is told with a series of questions and are answered in the most drawn out and scientific way possible.  Maybe Joyce could have been best served using a diffrent style.  Stephen's Shakespeare rant also seems unnecessary and the episode where Bloom is trying to sellan ad to the newspaper is hard to follow.  <BR>  Ever other episode is expertly written and is a delight to read.  The pitfalls of a few episodes are more than made up for with the 14 or so episodes that are expertly written.  <BR>  What Joyce does with language in this book is amazing.  He is a true master of the english language and a master of a multitude of diffrent styles.  He writes magnificently but sometimes he can't seem to help but show off his skills.  <BR>  And to those who think this book is utterly impossible and if anyone says they finished this book is lying, well I swear to god in heaven that I read this book cover to cover.  It was no easy task, it took me a long time, but I did finish it.  I don't claim to come close to total comprehension but I did read it all the way through.  <BR>  I would recommend this book to anyone who isn't analytically challenged, has an attention span of at least one hour, and won't be offended if a writer changes styles every chapter.  I highly recommend it.  If you get through it you can be a literary snob for the rest of your life.  Did you finish Ulysses, I did.	2002-03-02
US	49207870	R3H0KPDNTCQTSX	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great and Funny Book	When I first opened Catch-22 I was throughly confused.  Their are a whole lot of plot threads that arise that you don't find out about until a great deal of the way through the book.  But after I got through the first 75 pages the novel began to come into picture.  <BR>Heller's book is ...funny in places and also pretty sad in others.  For people who don't find this book funny they need to lighten up.  Though the humor is far from sophisticated it's still pretty hilarious.  I loved the whole backwards name thing, Washington Irving and Irving Washington.  And how can you not laugh at Major Major Major.  General Dreedle scaring ... people by threatening to have them shot is also great.  <BR>The book can be pretty sobering too.  Yossarian is dreadfully affraid dying and when he has a nervous breakdown in the air you are watching someone unravel.  <BR>Overall this is one of my favorite books.  So if your a wise [alek]pacifist or someone who enjoys a good book, then pick this up.  If you take yourself to seriously, feel your beyond hype and all \\"classics\\" suck, then don't bother.	2002-02-27
US	49207870	R2EDXOH0FMA06X	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Now This Is More Like It	I was introduced to the works of JRR Tolkien by the movie.  Needless to say I hated it.  I thought it was just a rambling mess with too many extreme closeups, too many far shots and shallow characters.  It was also 3 hours long and I felt like killing myself to end the madness.  I recieved the trilogy for christmas and I figured that the books were better than the movie.  Well they were a lot better, but were kind of boring and drawn out.  But then I decided to read the Hobbit, and finally I was impressed.  This, in my opinion is where anyone who is reading Tolkien should start out.<br />  This book is fairly easy reading and fairly lighthearted.  It is written with much more excitement than the LOTR and as a result is much more suspensful.  I actually felt tense when the wolves were attacking the company.<br />  Though the language is not as polished as in the LOTR, Tolkien makes up for in character development and plot.<br />  Well anyway, I feel this deserves every bit a five star rating.  It was exciting, fast paced and wasn't boged down with page after page of meaningless description.  So I guess Tolkien was a good writer after all, it surpised me to find out.	2002-02-10
US	49207870	RV4DK32HKSMX1	0618129022	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (Movie Art Cover)	Books	3	3	11	N	N	Eh, it's not bad, it's not great either	I got this massive thing for christmas and I must say I was a bit daunted.  I've read a lot of books in the 600 to 700 page realm but very few this long.  So I figure it can't be to difficult, so I dove right in and what did I find?<br />  What I found was a great concept delivered in a pretty dull fashion.  The Lord of the Rings is a 1000 page epic adventure, which if you narrowed it down could have probably been a lot shorter, a lot more concise and a lot easier to read.  I don't know about anyone else, but I found the endless pages of descriptions of then walking around and where the hills were in comparison to their location a bit tiresome.  After a while I began to just skim over those parts and hope for some action to come.<br />  And when the action came, it was horribly underwhelming.  It was hard to realize when it should be exciting.<br />  For example, in the climatic scene with Gollum, Frodo, and Sam in Mordor, when the climax finally happened(I don't want to go into the details and spoil it for anyone wanting to read it) I didn't really feel anything about it.  Nothing at all.  It sort of just went through me.  Was I susposed to feel excited or something?<br />  Anyway, I still think this book was worth reading, if not for the fact that it's one of those cultural standards that everyone has read.  I give it three stars because the story is well thoughtout and Mr. Tolkien was definatly not lazy, hell he created a whole language and all those family trees.  It was just more than a little dull for my liking.<br />  By the way, i'm reading The Hobbit as we speak and finding it a much better read.  Theirs no endless stream of names that I have no idea about, or endless descriptions of things I don't care about, and (gasp), I actually feel suspense in certain parts, eh gad.	2002-02-08
US	49207870	R21T48UEK8WM1L	0060393009	59636792	Foley Is Good: And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The title says it all.	When you think of pro wrestling, you may think of big, bucked tooth people throwing fake punches and landing on a giant trampolion. You're ignorant if you think that.  I am a huge fan myself, and I know that Mick Foley is one of the greatest. If you read Foley Is Good, you will know what I am talking about. The book picks up where the last left off. It talks about everything from injuries to sex. It is a very wisecracking book that left me on the floor laughing, and the final chapter is about the communist PTC, and how they hate the thursday show WWF Smackdown! Read this book, you will be incredibly supprised that the real world is faker than wrestling.	2001-07-27
US	49207870	R1V9LHCAEJ6CWU	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great book	Crichton has out done himself again.  Five strangers are sent to an underwater habitat to investigate an unknown &quot;alien&quot; spaceship.  The civilians of the group: Norman, Beth, Ted, and Harry, are very complex characters that are portrayed in a very simple way. While down in the habitat DH-8, they visit the spaceship. Inside, they find a perfectly polished sphere. Everybody in the group has an idea of what it is. Ted thinks that it is a trophy of some sort. Harry thinks that it was picked up on the travels of the ship, and Norman thinks that it is a door of somesort.  During a routine day, the sphere opens, and that is when things go very wrong.  The ending really tops off the book. Leaving the reader in shivers, the book ends the way that it ought to.  Supspensful and very dangerous, this book is one of the best fiction novels I have ever read. Like all Crichton books, it leaves you wondering what if, and is very, very suspensful.	2001-07-27
US	49207870	R2752T3VFHEYOI	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best fiction book ever.	Jurassic Park the movie does a grave injustice to the book.  Riviting and scary ..., it doesn't go overboard with the dinosaurs and the techonolgy.  Dr. Alan Grant and Elle Sattler are asked to take a tour of a magnificent new park. The evasive owner of the biotechnology company In-Gen and owner of the park John Hammond is there as well to supervice the epedition.  The park is located on an island 80 miles west of Costa Rica. Isla Nublar is the perfect setting for suck a book.  Grant and Sattler are joined by chaos therosist Ian Malcolm (my favorite character) and lawyer Donald Gennaro.  This book will take you on a roller coaster ride that doesn't have too many thrills and spills. The end of the book is very beautiful, but very gritty at the same time.	2001-07-19
US	49207870	R3RBA95FFUS87J	0785107711	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 2	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent, the most hardcore marvel book I have ever read	This book is the perfect case study on how to make compeling crime fiction.  Frank Miller has displayed once again that he is a legend and one of the guys who made the grim and gritty era of comics such a joy.   I'll start off with the art.  The art, as always is excellent.  The beginning of the trade the art is alittle rough but still servicable(with the help of inker Klaus Johnson no doubt.) But when you get to the part in the story when The Hand is introduced, the art goes from good to excellent.  The pencils aren't whats so impressive, it's the layouts.  The scene with Elecktra in the movie theater is compelling and the fight between Daredevil and Bullseye has to be seen to be believed.  I must say I have never been so enthralled with a fight in a comic book in my life.  The inking is solid throughout, really adding to the dark mood of the story.   The story itself is top notch, and probably as violent as a Marvel comic will ever get.  I mean Elecktra and Bullseye both kill lots of people.  The story was groundbreaking for a Daredevil comic, considering what it was like before Miller showed up.  Though the story is involving, the pacing is what Miller is best at.  The story moves at a rapid clip, never dropping something off the table or forgeting about a loose end without tying it up.  The trade format really fits this angle well as it's not so much a bunch of single stories as it is one collective story.     I must say Frank Miller is a genius and my favorite creator of all time.  If your a fan of The Dark Knight Returns, 100 Bullets, or anything crime related, you'll enjoy this.	2001-06-25
US	49207870	RXO1SFYY6BN0	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If I could, I would give this book a hundred stars.	This is the best book ever. Kings analogies with Jacks father and the hotel is excellent. The way he describes the downfall of Jack, Danny and Wendy is superb.  Everybody knows what the shining is about, and most everybody has seen the movie. But the book is awesome!! His detail is great and so is his imagination. READ THIS BOOK. I read it when I was 13.	2001-06-22
US	49207870	R12Z5Y9QZ3V1K	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A very unnerving and disturbing book.	Interview With The Vampire is one the greatest books I have ever read. Its second only behind The Shining. Her incredible detail and shades of gray with Lestat, Armand and Claudia makes the book a slow one that you can't put down. Read this book if you have anytime.	2001-06-22
US	49207870	R3QVTTAAL1VES2	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Arguably the greatest comic story ever told	Alan Moore and David Gibbons tale of disfunctional superheroes is one of my personal favorite comic stories of all time.  The book is awesome, from the cinematic art, to Moore's superb dialouge and story telling.  The inter-chapters are very interesting and give some nice background information.  The comic book inside the comic is a nice touch, but drags on in the middle.  I have only a few complaints about this, one is the pacing.  12 issues was a bit long, I got bored with it about half way through the chapter about Dr. Manhanttan, but it did pick up with the Rorshach in jail part.  Like Moore's other large trade paper back From Hell, it draged a bit.  The art is very functional and works well.  I would compare it to Steve Dillons stuff on Preacher, it doesn't blow you away, but it does serve it's purpose.  Overall, this is one of those must have trades, along with Moore's American counterpart Frank Millers The Dark Knight Returns, and Millers earlier Daredevil work.	2001-06-08
US	49207870	R7XR2GFIIKS4B	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The Best Comic Story Ever Written	Frank Miller is simply the man, period.  I don't care if all you pretentious intellectuals think Alan Moore(The Watchmen was good but overrated), or Neil Gaiman(aren't we sophisticated with our fairies and elves) are as good as comics get, Miller is the best. Dark Knight Returns is the best comic book story ever written.  It's simply a great telling of a very recognizable character.  The story telling is excellent, the art is awesome, though the last two issues lack alittle in that department.     By the way, not to offend any Alan Moore fans out their, The Killing Joke was awesome, and From Hell is a masterpiece.	2001-02-12
US	49207870	R1789053IU2Q66	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book is awesome	I've got each of these books individually and I must say this is one of the best comics ever created.  Frank Miller knows how to write a dark and gritty crime tale better that anyone.  His art, though simplistic in style sets a dark mood to the whole story.    His use of the media tells an effective story.     The city scape is breathtaking as usual.  Very film noirish in it's portrayl.  Miller used the same technique on his run in Daredevil, making the city a supporting character.     Some criticize this books art, or the fact he's not your average boy scout in tights superhero.  Art isn't really what Miller does best, but it's above average.  And the reson batman uses a gun is because after robin died, and he stayed inactive for 15 years, he became even more of a revenge freak vigilante than before.     Alan Moore is a better writer, and their are many better artists, but Miller really does now how to write Batman.  I just can't wait for the sequal.	2000-10-14
