US	49210446	R364QR3FI3BWIM	0553213237	187732421	A Room with a View (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Solid, Light Satirical Work from Foster	While not approaching the magnitude of A Passage to India, or even Howard's End, A Room with a View offers an entertaining enough, if not rare, look at the middle class British (traveler's) life. Consumed with the self-discipline and propriety dictated by the national character and emulation of the upper classes, Lucy Honeychurch finds herself between her stodgy cousin's checks and George Emerson's unconventional, bold, and straightforward sincerity. In the backdrop, just as in Howard's End, is the burgeoning realization of female identity and the possibility of greater freedoms.<br /><br />Forster creates rather familiar characters in the oppressed but promising Lucy, stuffy and financially dependent Charlotte, and traditional, sarcastic snob Cecil, whom Lucy opts to marry after several rejections, in order to avoid confusion about her own future and the doubts the Emersons have introduced. George Emerson, of course, is the modern knight--uncouth and unsmooth--but dangerous and attractive on a visceral level.<br /><br />What makes Room with a View special is not the content--covered territory, or the dialogue--witticisms and comedy of manners, but Forster's special insight into the characters that lets us know eveything they are and everything they can be, without deeply probing the people. It is a respect and dignity he grants his creations that makes them real.	2005-10-08
US	49210446	R35RSC2Q2JPWBA	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	As Funny as the First	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe picks up where Hitchhiker's Guide left off, and you start to get the sense that the cheerfully nonchalant characters could carry on forever in the same way. Still, you don't mind, because Adams not only uses the book as a vehicle to make fun of humans and their various inanities--the vehicle offers a pretty fun ride. <br /> <br />This time the gang searches for the man who rules the Universe, finding him not to be the man they quite expect. Adams trumps the mock-magnitude of the first book with dinner theater that includes the destruction of the universe, as well Ford's and Arthur Dent's accidental (or is it?) and improbable anthropological journey. How far can Adams take this game? Guess I'll find out.	2005-08-28
US	49210446	R2E4U5TV933LPA	014118213X	966622039	Howards End (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Politics, Heart, and Soul	Howards End is set in the tradition of the great British novel. Although Forster tackles less politically and morally charged themes here than he does with A Passage to India, Howards End certainly has more heart--naturally, since it tackles the soul. <br /> <br />There is also a secondary theme of the approaching women's lib movement, always in the background, but always threatening the men in the novel, especially Henry Wilcox and his brood. Margaret Schlegel is the sort of woman who would be at the forefront on the movement today, but she doesn't know it. Her intelligence and passion for people and creation are inhibited by an early resignation to Old Maidhood--that is, until she falls in love with Mr. Wilcox, the husband of Margaret's late, unlikely mate. <br /> <br />Practical and dispassionate, Wilcox is \\"the sort of man who made Britain\\" what it is (one of Forster's pet phrases), yet an emotionally insipid and incompetent patriarch. He is exactly the sort of man women are fighting even today--he doesn't understand women; he doesn't even understand men, except in business. <br /> <br />Stalking these very different sides of the British upper middle-class throughout the story is Leonard Bast, a poor clerk with a spark of the greatness the Schlegels value, who hides his authentic humanity behind affectations of culture. Helen's, Margaret's sister's, attempts at patronage are a rather overt stab at wealthy liberal condescension toward the underclass, applicable to limousine libs today. <br /> <br />Receding into the past but never forgotten, is the will from Mrs. Wilcox bequeathing Howards End to Margaret--a mystical and unfulfilled last will and testament that haunts  the Wilcoxes for failure to comply with the lady's wishestill the end.	2005-08-19
US	49210446	RPDHJTPO0KENA	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny Sci-Fi	The Guide is surely one of those books best enjoyed between the ages of 15 and 20, but I still had a great time with it at 25. Douglas Adams' genius is in gently but decisively subverting a genre while staying true to its best and purest roots. Thus, he dispenses with the dorky obsessiveness to which sci-fi is susceptible, using humor and non-stop action,    The Guide is a tribute to science fiction and a paean to its great patron saints. Exploring space and time travel in an infinite yet incomprehensible universe, Adams offers a view of the universe without the self-importance and Earth-centered myopia of the human race. Yet just when the Earth is detroyed, we take comfort in the realization that the rest of the galaxy turns out to be populated solely by other creatures very similar to ourselves. No stone is left unturned, no nasty trait of humankind is immune from Adams' sharp, yet not quite caustic, wit.    At a rudimentary level, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy appeals to the fantasy-addicted, carefree spirit of our inner child--the mystery and wonder of space and time surrounding us without all the baggage of the adult who has ceased to dream and look into the stars, content to rest on his laurels and in his certainty of death and taxes.	2005-08-06
US	49210446	R274HH1YZLSK81	0684839075	582605999	The Torrents of Spring	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting Early Hemingway	Torrents of Spring is a slim work, a short story--I guess. This early, almost experimental (but for the fact that it is a) satire takes to task a number of more verbose, stylistically florid contemporaries. The plot, if you called it that, is linear enough, and the characters are based more on a medley of ideas and events than any real people--displaced from the current of American history swirling around them. It's a nice short read and a must for any Hemingway fan looking for something different.	2005-07-31
US	49210446	R377R11XFEELNK	0394535227	766178804	The Zone: Prsn Cmp Grd	Books	5	0	0	N	N	My Worthy "Discovery" of Dovlatov	Zona is a sharply observed, sharply funny, and sharply written account of Dovlatov's time as a prison guard in Komi. It is a pleasure to read a modern writer who can capture the absurdity of not only Soviet life, but of life in general, with such facile humanity and humor.  <br /> <br />Notable not only for hilarious stories, such as a theatrical tribute to Lenin meticulously rehearsed and staged for Communist party leaders by various camp recidivists, but also for the perfectly captured vernacular in his dialogue, The Zone is a beautiful book. Dovlatov captures the reality of life--the pathos and the comical incongruencies, sometimes both in the same moment, in the same phrase. <br /> <br />I have read that this is his most serious work--if that's true, I will be reading many more Dovlatov books in the future.	2005-06-23
US	49210446	R3S1RY9TN0H103	0679732179	912444309	Go Down, Moses	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Opaque and Exuberant	Go Down Moses was my latest stab at Faulkner. I'd certainly recommend, as someone before me has, a college course or reading group study of this book, and just about any other great Faulkner work. That being said, even a marginal understanding of this book (like mine) is worth the time and effort.    Go Down Moses is a collection of temporally fragmented novellas and stories concerning the McCaslin family's past, present, and future legacy in a southern town. Thematically, Faulkner tackles a bevy of issues--race, slavery, paternity, masculinity, the natural and supernatural. The stories are loosely centered around Isaac McCaslin, descendant of Carothers McCaslin--a plantation owner.    The best regarded and most complex story is considered to be \\"The Bear.\\" Over a hundred pages long, it follows (often meandering) the hunting team that includes young Isaac, ex-Civil War officers, and a half Choctaw/half African hunter (Sam Fathers) as they obsessively pursue the invincible bear Old Ben through the years. Bursting with imagery and symbolism, \\"The Bear\\" will please Faulkner fans and hunters alike.    My personal favorites are \\"Was\\" and \\"The Fire and the Hearth.\\" Lucas, half-black and the oldest living McCaslin save Isaac, searches for buried gold on Carothers Edmonds's plantation, where he farms, while his wife, fed up with his mania, gives him an ultimatum. An unlikely and graceful story of marital bonds and family values, and the triumph of humanity and dignity over birthright	2005-06-21
US	49210446	R1FFOGTU8HP3K3	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Scathing Satire from a Sage	Candide is a short and rewarding read. Follow the adventures of Candide, an honest and naive young man who grows up in a baron's household in Germany, on his loss-of-innocence journey. Kicked out of his house after he is caught in a tryst with the baron's daughter, Candide is banished to wander the cruel world. From forced conscription to the Inquisition, Candide sees wonder upon wonder, always holding fast to the teachings of Master Pangloss, his philosophy teacher, that all things (no matter how bad) are right--because they must be so, and picking up new friends on the way. <br /> <br />Candide is Voltaire's Swift-like satirical commentary on the society of his day (Europe) and all its dirty laundry--the hypocrisy, greed, cruelty, lecherousness, and demagoguery. Not a single ethnic, political, or religious faction is spared. Voltaire wants Candide, and his reader, to cast off our complacency and irrational optimism, embracing instead demonstrable truths and the responsibility to make things right. <br /> <br />In short, Voltaire wants Candide to live up to his name, and maybe it is the most innocent and gullible hero needed to restore the integrity Voltaire saw lacking in the men and women of his day--a new beginning.	2005-05-01
US	49210446	R1IFFNV84XBB8Y	1400033896	197124538	There Are Jews in My House	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Admirable if Mundane First Effort	There Are Jews at My House is a noble, unforced, and unpretentious first effort from an ESL author who shows promise of coming into her own. Contrary to the back panel blurb's assertion, Vapnyar is not the Russian Jane Austen. Still, the stories are vivid and subtle, showing the positive signs of restraint and absorbing narrative.    The inadequacy of Vapnyar's English can be overcome--she will almost surely produce a more elegant product the next time around. (Do not confuse, however, her limited stylistic bravura with an asserted style--Lara is clearly, and smartly, playing it safe with the language).     The biggest problem is that most of the stories in this fiction/creative nonfiction tome can't be classified as extraordinary or extremely compelling. The title story, ripe with the most subject matter, is thankfully, understated and adequate. The best pieces are probably \\"Lydia's Grove\\" and \\"Mistress,\\" with \\"Love Lessons\\" a runner-up. Other childhood recollections are prosaic (I'm probably biased as an ex-Soviet) and probably wouldn't be printed if it weren't for the author's Russian backdrops.    While Vapnyar has some distance to cover stylistically, and could stand to inject more humor into her stories (believe me, \\"Mistress\\" is full of potential), as a valuable early entry in the hopefully soon-to-be Russian-American canon, this book should not be dismissed .	2005-04-28
US	49210446	RW7EBO1U7GJJQ	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What's in a Name?	Umbero Eco is a medievalist, literary theorist, semiotician, and philologist writing a novel. Though methodical and carefully calculated-as Eco reveals in his long post script, The Name of the Rose is a shining success as the finished product of a scholarly writer. <br /> <br />We have Eco's staple once-twice-thrice removed narrator, who retells the tale of the young and nave Adso, a German Franciscan monk on a diplomatic mission with his English master, William of Baskerville, in the service of the current emperor. We have his taut plot, a meditation on theology, human knowledge, and the limits of interpretation disguised as an edge-of-your-seat murder mystery. When unexplained murders occur, one after another, at a famous 14th century abbey, Adso follows William, an intellectually keen and witty investigator and scholar, on their search for the source of the crimes. <br /> <br />At the center of their investigation is a grandiose abbey library protected by a labyrinthine design. As a (seemingly) obvious symbol of the murder mystery, it twists and turns, confuses and reveals, obscures and enlightens. William, a character surely close to Eco's heart, seduces us as the seemingly infallible medieval Sherlock Holmes-an ever-curious intellect, quiet defender of truth and justice, and lively wit to boot. <br /> <br />Yet Eco's ambitions exceed a satisfying resolution to a serpentine whodunit. Just when William and Adso think they've found the exit door from the maze, the maze is rearranged. With one death after another, patterns are establishes-but is there really a pattern? What Eco is really after (among other things) is an examination of the written word's history-at a time when the secular arm of scholarship was competing with the traditional theologians of the Church. Through the narrator's innocent eyes, we witness the simple folk and zealous heretics alike unfairly tried and purged, violent debates over Christ's view of poverty, and lectures on the sacrilege of laughter. Throughout, Eco quietly urges us to consider the power of words, while reconstructing the traditional novel. <br />	2005-04-27
US	49210446	R32JG61HLAAJDM	0393324028	297943237	The Collected Stories of Isaac Babel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Short Story Master Stakes Claim to History	Reading Babel is no picnic in the park. His words are often hard to understand, let alone relish. In Red Cavalry, as he evokes heartrending scenes of torture, deprivation, and corruption, it is often hard to read without almost begging the author for a point of view, a call to arms. Yet in his sharp, vivid--yet terse, accounts (somewhat naturalistic as characters succumb to the hideous corollaries of civil stife--hunger, unbridled violence, senseless cruelty, inhumanity) his compact, frugal stories are never sentetious or tendetious.  <br /> <br />The Odessa Tales, the second part of his ouevre, is nearer and dearer to my heart. Immediately, I fell in love with a rabbi's narration of mythical gangster hero Benya Krik. Benya, a Jewish thug with a code of values, who no doubt has the power to empower the young minds of Jewish boys, commands respect as a charismatic desperado, so alien to the preconceptions of Jews as victims and middle-class pushovers, always dependent on the  mercy of the ruling elite. Benya wends his way around authorities--whether monarchist or Bolshevik, not only marching to the beat of a different drum, but subjugating others to the beat. Scenes of Odessa, my hometown, are sumptuous though sparing in descriptions of wealthy and lowly merchants, sailors, criminals, and lackeys. <br /> <br />Having read these and other stories in Russian, I look forward to reading the translation in hopes of better understanding them in my adopted tongue. Babel is not the most facile read, but an important and long ignored voice in the Soviet literary canon. Enjoy.	2005-02-12
US	49210446	R2WFZENGQNBUYJ	0374519048	720528268	Cassandra: A Novel and Four Essays	Books	2	9	16	N	N	Feminist Deconstruction of Myth	I haven't much to add to previous reviews except a personal response to the text. Yet another tough book to comment on due to its translated form, Christa Wolf attempts to rewrite a myth from a female perspective and turn the Iliad on its head. The first person stream of consciousness is like a cloud that passes over that period in history, soaking up the facts we know and sprinkling them back down on us in digest form. Cassandra is not so much concerned with its own myth as picking and choosing focal points ripe for re-focusing from a modern feminist perspective (sexuality, the male heroes and their brutality, the reality of war, the mind-control of politics). Although Interesting, and possibly even poetic in its native tongue, Cassandra is more curious as an academic project than a piece of literature.	2004-11-27
US	49210446	RJ5OD19E7C65D	0679413278	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A hero for their time, a hero for our time?	Lermontov's A Hero of Our Time is terse, yet replete with imagery; a drama and a psychological study told in 150 pages. Through four novellas, the hero, Pechorin, advances a character study that bares (not exposes) a modern Russian man wandering through an age fraught with nihilisic ideology and the devolution of traditional values. <br /> <br />Eschewing ubuquitous cliches that portray brash Russian officers as wastrels and \\"soliders of fortune,\\" Lermontov speaks from the soul of a very real man with very real fears, passions--and, at the same time--lack thereof. We follow Pechorin and learn his character through the women he loves, or purports to love, the company he keeps (and the way he regards it), and the lives he affects. <br /> <br />A \\"superfluous\\" hero in a time of flux, Pechorin seems to wreak havoc everywhere he goes, tarnish everything he touches. Love he regards skeptically--thinking its ardor has been spent on him; friends mean little to him as he lives wholly within his own preoccupations and whims; travel does not excite him--he has seen it all, and continues for lack of better leisure. Reckless adventure and risk-taking seem the only rousing diversion (building upon something of a staple character trait for the Russian novel). <br /> <br />Without values--breaking deals, betraying friends, ignoring every ostensible code of honor, Pechorin is a potentially extraordinary individual corrupted by aimlessness and spiritual hollowness. Interestingly, Pechorin, a hero of Lermontov's time, doesn't seem to have to gone away. Hmm, wasn't there always a Pechorin lurking among us?	2004-09-29
US	49210446	R9A4WWKGDP9I	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	3	5	9	N	N	All sound and fury?	What are we to make of &#60;Underworld, DeLillo's 800+ page diary of individuals living under the very real threat, but later fading specter, of the Cold War? Whites, Blacks, Italians, Jews; men, women, children. From a historic baseball game in New York, to the Arizona desert, to the nuclear waste dumps of the former USSR; from the dimly lit mob hangouts of 1950s Bronx, to the ghetto of the 1960s, and the sterile Southwest suburbs of the 1980s, DeLillo takes us on a voyage to explore human lives reacting to, ignoring, and resisting the forces of New World power brokers--governments, corporations; and ideology. <br /> <br />In the obligatory post-modern disarray of narrative and sequential existence, DeLillo criscrosses space-time on a desperate search, along with his own characters; but--like them--on a lonely search. For what? Americana, baseball memorabilia, a vanished father, a map drawn on Gorbachev's head, mystical signs from above appearing on a billboard? Myriad symbols and patterns emerge to guide the desperate wanderers on their obsessive, hopeless quest: a significant baseball, graffitti, waste. <br /> <br />But to what end? I suspect this book has much more appeal to the boomers and the folks who grew up during and with cold war as DeLillo remembers it. This is not to mislead the potential reader into thinking that Underworld is &#34;about&#34; the cold war. But, in coursing through the lives of its characters--celebrities, government spooks, common folk, and clergy, one feels the sense and power of interconnectedness that unites disparate souls. DeLillo wields his scepter mightily, achieving an amazing complete omniscience over his charactera; and, at the same time, speaking from each of their minds--a collective omniscience, not an altogether deific one. In the end, though--for me, it was mostly lots of noise.	2004-08-22
US	49210446	R3OCUWDJPR9TL3	0393301583	574429846	Civilization and Its Discontents (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	2	6	18	N	N	Civilized Discourse Leaves Discontented Reader	There isn't much I can add to previous reviews of Civilziation and Its Discontents. My own reaction (after 2 cracks at it, one in college, and one post-) is one of bafflement and boredom. With academic, convoluted language, Freud discusses the role of the individual with his neuroses and his conflicts with socialization and civilization. Many of his jumbled sociological observations are better recorded by previous thinkers--Rousseau, for example. His psychological conclusions have more or less been explored at length in his previous works. Therefore, the redeeming value is found, perhaps, in Freud's closing passages, eery portends of Europe's ugly years.	2004-08-16
US	49210446	R2BXYJ135C3YLF	0679776443	879822150	Dead Souls	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Moral Rot and Mordant Wit	Dead Souls is an interesting selection for several reasons.  Above and beyond its commentary on the topical issues of Gogol's days (serfdom and the slow reforms thereof), sociopolitical satire, and uncommonly maladroit and unsympathetic hero, the book is an important exhibit in the evolution of the Russian language and the solidification of Russian literature.<br />Chichikov, a Russian customs civil servant, rides his troika into N., an unnamed provincial anytown.  His intentions unknown, Chichikov effortlessly wins the hearts of the seemingly superficial officials and landowners, whose hospitality and good cheer seem boundless.  Chichikov, though, is courting the kind citizens with a purpose.  Soon, he is traveling from house to manor, offering to buy deeds to dead peasants for reasons unknown.<br />With Chichikov's travels through the Russian countryside, Gogol unleashes his comic insight into Russian society, especially (and unlike many of his shorter stories), rural Russia.  Soon, the good hosts are exposed as guileful misers and the munificent oficials as venal and depraved.  The sharpest comic exchanges come in Chichikov's haggles with the more incredulous targets - notably, a woman who preposterously suspects a hidden value in dead souls, and Sobakevich - a man bearing more than physical resemblance to a bear. <br />At the same time, Dead Souls paints for us an unorthodox hero in Chichikov - a morally unscupulous bureaucrat whose only ambition is financial aggrandizement.  Relegated to mediocrity since childhood, Chichikov pursues the crass goals set out by his dysfunctional father.  Yet Chichikov is not a man, he is a state of mind - one that Gogol saw afflicting much of his beloved Russia.  Through Chichikov, and with great humor, Gogol illuminates the decay of human relations and decency in a country and people he loved so dearly.	2004-06-07
US	49210446	R2J7GEIKSU9WI5	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Penance for Penning	Is it possible to make up for a seemingly harmless action that affects the life of your loved ones; sending them spiraling irrevocably into nightmarish misery?  Is it possible to forgive someone who destroys your chances for love and happiness just as you're in their throes?  If the culprit is a naive young girl, is she any less culpable?  If this was the sum of McEwan's aim in writing this book, it would still be enough to shortlist him for the Booker Prize.<br />But, no, McEwan is interested (perhaps primarily) in portraying a young author who writes a story-within-a-story.  As Briony observes her sister Cecilia with their neighbor Robbie, a shocking scene shakes her world, hurdling her from the safe and simple plays of her innocence to the dangerous and exciting edges of adulthood, sexuality, and sober reality.  Engaging his heroine (if she may be dubbed one) with the story from her writer's point of view, McEwan engages the reader in following this interaction.<br />Atonement, although similar in concept to previously published works, eschews covered ground by shifting perspectives and narrative voices-not only between individual characters but between the same characters over time-thus keeping us on our feet.  We are never quite sure whose point of view is more accurate, and whether we can even trust them.  Scattered clues throughout the text only lead literary explorers to a mystifying culmination where the truth offers little value and satisfaction, and a melancholy resolution moves us with its forlorn reticence.  An exquisite read.	2004-05-07
US	49210446	R3RAEHT6XY84UM	0679731210	156485389	The Leopard	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Fall of the Leopards	In The Leopard, Di Lampedusa masterfully narrates the downfall of an ancient aristocratic Sicilian family.  We are introduced, among many others, to the paternalistic, intellectual Prince Fabrizio, his beloved but financially unendowed wit of a nephew Tancredi, Father Pirrone - a clement and practical reconciler and the Prince's ever-present conscience, and Don Sedara, a crass and uninitiated self-made landowner from the peasant class, whose beautiful daughter Tancredi falls for.<br />The Leopard, a pithy and briskly-paced historical novel, opens for us the door into the world of an old Sicilian family and the patriarch who tries to maintain the rule of tradition in his beloved world under the backdrop of Garibaldi and the reunification of Italy.  That the book is extremely well-written is evident even in the eloquent translation.  The story, undulating the tone from the tender expressiveness of all that is dear and familiar to a man who loves his country and heritage, and the gentle sorrow attending the perception of forces that gradually efface the bonds that hold those things together.<br />The chapter dealing with Don Fabrizio's declining health is an achievement in its own right, reflecting the organicity and artless sophistication of an experienced writer.  It is to be read slowly, with sweet relish	2004-04-17
US	49210446	R2BNTFNGEZBRSK	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Can Class become a classic?	Class is a studied, hilarious, yet tongue-in-cheek dissection of the American social class system.  It exposes such fundamentally American (and hence, germane) misconceptions on class as the truistic acceptance of class as a purely economical distinction (for the 2 lower classes, anyway).  <br />Using an 8 or 9-class structure (by my count), Fussell spares no target from incisive scrutiny.  The middle class with its safe, boring, and envious ways is Fussell's central target, but in the course of his attack, he takes working class slobs and upper class snobs prisoner as well.  <br />While very funny, readable, and entertaining (check out the illustrations!), Class does, contrary to some overzealous reviewers' desire to bestow overarching approval on the book, feel a bit dated for a younger generation of readers.  Although many of its keen observations will stand the test of time, an updated edition, as in any great textbook, is warranted.	2004-03-14
US	49210446	R2MISITZTM17UP	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quiet sacrifices, tender regrets	Tender is the Night was written over a decade, and it shows.  Characters grow, stop, we fast forward, and they change and mature without transition.  Tempting is the correlations between Fitzgerald's companionship with mentally unhinged Zelda and Dick Diver's nurturing husband/psychotherapist to Nicole, an heiress and ex-schizoid in occasional relapse who was traumatized by her father at a tender age.<br />Tender is Dick's caressing but scientific approach to loving Nicole.  When Rosemary Hoyt, a young starlet-to-be, pursues Dick with all due diligence, Dick loses the cool stability of his marriage experiment for the exciting, verily unscientific, if affected, opportunity to feel something new.  Having committed himself to Nicole's love and care despite his better reason, Dick lives with the consequences he signed on to live with.  His wife, recovering from her deep, despairing mental illness, sucks the life out of Dick, gaining strength with each drop of vigor he loses, fully aware of his inevitable failure.<br />Tender is the Night, where Fitzgerald starts to show the influence of Hollywood (not incidental, the Rosemary character, ey?) on his narrative composition, feels like a cast of actors playing their roles with converse dramatic irony.  Nicole's and Dick's anticipation of the paths they are on, curves, divergences and all, perhaps account for the absence of dramatic tension and suspense in Tender is the Night.  It is, instead, a journal of selected scenes catching the moods and musings of a doomed marriage, often striking poignancy at a perfect pitch.	2004-02-26
US	49210446	R82ZDRIH98HWV	0684801558	958015468	The Beautiful and Damned	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Often Beautiful, If Ultimately Damned	Fitzgerald's second novel shows a maturation rather than maturity.  It is a no-frills, yet poignant and focused portrait of the profoundly amoral young aristocracy boozing up the 1920s, rather than a predictable rise-and-fall morality tale.  Here, Fitzgerald holds the reins over his language; he is firmly in control, cutting down on some long-winded passages and verbosity seen in This Side of Paradise.<br />B&amp;D is true to the values of its hero, Anthony Patch, a superfluous and utterly indolent Harvard graduate who's far less sure of what he wants and likes than what he doesn't, except of course, for Gloria, a beautiful and narcissistic partner whose taste is compatible with his own.  <br />Awaiting his grandfather's demise, the young couple drinks away their days and nights because there is nothing else they can conceive of doing.  Their friends are a philosopher whose fundamental maxim is that there is nothing worth doing and a writer whose early promise deteriorates into banal tripe - a tragic waste of talent he is blind to.<br />Fitzgerald's prose and story are so deceptively fluid that the reader can miss many passive and active attitudes, bereft of any values or standards (other than aesthetic ones), towards life, family, fidelity, war, and death.  In this world, marriage is a refuge from boredom (albeit a hopeless one), work is debasing, war is a decoration of the moneyed class, and wealth itself is a presumption. <br />As, usual, Fitzgerald's strengths (reaching the acme in Gatsby) are in his ability to describe feelings and moments.  From Anthony's courthship of Gloria to his military affair with Dot, FSF never loses the palpable understanding of his own characters to satisfy effect.	2004-01-28
US	49210446	R1W4H231H9TMKK	0349106630	794618391	The Last Tycoon	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An Unfinished Masterpiece?	The Last Tycoon was to be Fitzgerald's return to Gatsby form and to critical acclaim.  In his notes, he wrote that this was to be more like Gatsby than like Tender is the Night (yet altogether original).  <br />Indeed, F. Scott gets the setup right - a sympathetic, immensely talented and paternalistic workaholic movie producer with an ailing heart (medically and emotionally) discovers the potential for salvation in the arms of a true love while trying to baffle his greedy partner's plots for takeover.  And FSF conceives a partly Conradian narration of the chief plot points - through the eyes of Cecelia, the partner's daughter, while offering an omniscient overview.<br />The book is hard to evalaute as we see less than half of Fitzgerald's execution, but it's fascinating to watch the pieces fall into a place (if some may miss).  Fitzgerald's tone progresses from a shaky start into his patented lyricism and elegantly seamless observations on love.  Read the notes, as they give an intriguing look at the great author's mind at work.	2004-01-07
US	49210446	R30QHYTZIY0VYG	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Genius or Cultist?	Writing a review for Atlas Shrugged is personally difficult because while I grudgingly find Rand inspiring and was obsessed with the Fountainhead when I read it, I must concede that Ayn Rand is not an exceptional stylist or wordsmith.  To the question: is she a writer or a philosopher, the answer is a firm 'philosopher.'  Her works are much too idea-driven and one can't help but feel like he's reading a biblical comic book.   <br />In this epic she presents a near-futurisitic world populated by industrial/scientific tycoons and populist parasites, the latter ruling the former, blinding them from perceiving their own greatness.  Dagny Taggart, the engine behind a powerful railroad, and Hank Reardon, the inventor of a revolutionary steel alloy, are resolved to hold out when the industry giants begin to quit and disappear in response to American socialization.<br />Rand basically used this book to espouse (sometimes tediously so) the fundamental tenets of objectivism.  It is wrong to criticize this book as anything other than what Rand intends it to be: a romantic vision of man as she sees him (as, indeed, she wants to see man).  Yes, Atlas Shrugged, to a large extent, is a response to the time and place that produced Ayn Rand.  Still, it is tough not to admire her steadfast, resolute, uncompromising vision of man as man ought to be - of freedom of ideas, speech, and ambition, the fulfillment of out greatest capacities for reason, progress, and happiness.<br />The tough part of reviewing Rand is looking at her as a writer.  Yes, her character are cut out of cardboard.  Yes, her ideas are single-minded and her morals fixed and diametrically opposed to her concept of evil.  Atlas Shrugged is also frequently surprisingly flat, considering Rand's story-building skills.  The Fountainhead had a hero and a worthy villain, but Atlas Shrugged has a number of heroes but not a single worthy adversary.  For every John Galt, there are ten unbearably stupid, puerile, unconsciously evil enemies.  This allows Rand to market her philosophy virtually without any competitition, making it that much more attractive.  The story never really becomes compelling (even if the ideas sometimes do), and that is the measure of a great epic novel.  We know where Rand is going and how she will get there; the issue that remains is how many words will she use?	2003-12-24
US	49210446	RJUFUJQA3UP0M	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Adequate Light Reading	Life of Pi is the equivalent of a 3-star movie with higher aims.  Its jokes are not so funny, its inventiveness is not so inventive, its action nearly nonexistent.  The story concerns Pi, an unlikely young Indian boy who decides to worship God through various religions (well, Hindu, Muslim, and Christian - I suppose, the main religions in India).  When the boat carrying his family to North America sinks, he is forced to share a boat with a hungry tiger and master the skills of survival in the opean sea.<br />To be fair, Pi is well-written, lucid, and absorbing at times (Pi's adventure on the island and some moments with the tiger).  However, it falls short of the kind of nuanced survival story once told by Daniel Defoe.  I would recommend this book to junior high-high school aged readers.  My other problem with the text was the awful treatment of Pi's family's demise, although it's possible to treat the rest of the book's tone as a way of dealing with grief while avoiding it.	2003-11-29
US	49210446	R33WNJ6YXCJHP2	0684843781	835712680	This Side Of Paradise	Books	3	2	2	N	N	4 years of paradise	This Side of Paradise is a paean to that special period in a young man's life when he forges the principles, flirts with his talents, find and loses love.  <br />Fitzgerald's story is a bit more convoluted as he nurtures his hero from strangeness of childhood (a Portrait of the American Artist, to some extent), through the vanity of teens, through the confusion of college.  He captures some of the ubiquitous sensations of being a college student - of the effervescent but ephemeral experience that feels like it will last forever; of friendships, and the general experimentation of finding and losing.<br />The book is also notable for a protofeminist (albeit from a male perspective) subtext that seems to play out in the background.  When women enter into Emory Blaine's Life, it is as if the narrator yields the floor to the object of his affections so that she can write her own part, and by providing differentiation and individuation for the female characters, Fitzgerald validates them as living, breathing, self-willing entities.<br />By its end, This Side of Paradise seems like an incomplete story whose only outcome is melancholy.  It is the gateway to FSF's biggest works, as the pathos of graduation from college leads to our most consequential decisions and ambitious acttions.  Yet something is missing - the carefree, unadulterated moments of certainty that we will do something great, that the world is great, and that anything is possible as long as we don't attempt it.	2003-11-27
US	49210446	R3JA6DIK2DQHD7	0060529709	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	2	24	30	N	N	Another unfulfilled promise	In in the interest of keeping this bashing brief and to the point, Foer fails to deliver the goods for the following reasons: lazy writing, ignorance of exploited subject matter, contrived characters and dramatic developments, cheap use of literary gimmicks to cover up lack of story.<br />Dear reader, allow me to bore and irritate you by declaring that Foer is utterly ignorant of the Russian language, Ukrainian customs, and my native city of Odessa.  Allegedly, he shrugs his lack of research off with a laugh.  This rather alarming habit of trivializing the importance of factual subject matter is disgusting not because it violates some objective paradigm of literary virtue, but because it exploits a grave and meaty subject while laughing off the hard work it deserves.  Perhaps Foer thinks that his lazy scattering and transpositioning of English words transcends a dozen hours of mechanically generated Thesaurus entries.  It does not.<br />Further along the same lines, the character of Alex is nothing more than a monkey sitting at an aforementioned electronic thesaurus and spitting out strings of unfunny, un-Russian, and lazy gibberish.  If Foer wasn't busy trying to hack out Clockwork Orange or Catch-22, he might have spent more hours at a library or even bothered to learn some Russian to at the very least recognize speech patterns.  Instead, we have a 'clever' 300 page wordplay and sketches.<br />Now, as for the subject itself, Foer, like so many polished young writers without anything to write about, chooses to borrow drama from someone else; not only a person, but a time.  Like so many writers of little imagination, he digs in a fictional past (which he, once again, fails to investigate).  So, Foer chooses to rewrite history and manipulate tragedy to infuse his story with an adequate sense of importance.  WWII and the Holocaust, 2 of the major cataclysms of the modern era, are thrown into Foer's meatgrinder.  This because the writer is so dry that he has to travelto another land and time - no, to invent another land and time (while affecting their reality) to spark his mind.<br />Oh, you might think that the story is redeemed by Foer's wicked satirical abilities.  About the only scene I found funny was the potato-dropping incident in the restaurant.  Shame on you Mr. Foer for butchering the English language (and not in any positive way).  Shame on you for writing a fictitious piece of fictional storytelling.	2003-08-16
US	49210446	R1DWMMUGR74V0T	0679763996	458475501	The Moral Animal: Why We Are, the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Clear, Concise, Convincing	The Moral Animal was recommended to me for several years by an ex-roommate and I finally relented and picked it up.  The book was worth the time, at least the first half of it or so.  Wright has that pleasant and  tone of a TNR writer/editor - the patient, polite moderate idealogue.  Here we have what appears to be a pretty solid introduction to the thinking process of an evolutionary psychologist.  Much of the 'insights' are intuitive, but of course it is the counterintuitive findings that are most interesting.<br />It is amusing that (as per usual) several reviewers misinterpreted (or underintepreted) Wright's personal leanings on the politics of his subject matter.  This book, after all, was focused on how evolution has shaped the way we think and how we define right and wrong (and why).  One of the central points is that derivation of a moral code from nature is fallacious.  For some reason, several readers assumed that since Wright (in an attempt to humor the conservative readership of the book) makes interesting commentary concerning the logic of Victorian morality, that he is an adherent of that belief system.  This is, of course, ludicrous.<br />If anything, Wright sometimes crosses the line of permissible subjectivity by over-promoting his fetish for utilitarianism (fyi, a Victorian moralist would hardly gush about a Peter Singer).  It is perfectly fine to tie this perfectly reasonable system of thought into his discussion, but by the end of the book, Wright's text is bordering on preachy piousness.  Furthermore, his decision to exploit Darwin's life as the ultimate experimental subject of his own science in the lab of history reveals much more about how Wright thinks than it does about Darwin.  Appropriately, though, Wright employs tempting speculation in a speculative discipline.<br />Other than those lesser issues, The Moral Animal resonates with and engages the reader.  This book is at once enlightening and dangerous - a lightning rod for cynicism.  I would not recommend it to people who prefer to preserve their own ideas about human relationships and the virtues of social life.  It is perfect, however, for those who love to have their ideas challenged, and will challenge the author in turn.  Perhaps the most promising and optimistic notion one can leave the book with is that human beings are an experiment that is constantly being improved - nature works us over on the outside, but it is up to us to realize our limitless intrinsic potential.	2003-07-24
US	49210446	R1LMO2KNEGCK1Q	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Everything You'Ve Ever Wanted To Know (or not) About Whales.	Moby Dick is obviously a rich and complex novel, a hallmark in the American literary canon and an important evolutionary step.  That is why I recommend (unlike a previous reviewer) reading this book in an academic setting so that background and context can be elucidated for you.  I am not one to wax pedantic, but serious books deserve serious reading.  If you want to let loose, pick up Mary Higgins Clark.<br />The book may have something for everyone, though perhaps not for me.  Melville was doubtless a pioneer in his bold digressions from such banalities as plot and dramatic buildup to such quirky and informative sections as a detailing the sperm whale's sperm or the individual anatomies of the dozen better known varieties of whale.  There is only so much whale I can take.  It matters little that the whale himself is perhaps not as important as what he represents or what the human characters see in the whale.<br />Still, there are enough beautiful passages full of poetry, adventure, and vitality to enchant your mind in between the tedious whale biographies.  There is indeed enough weirdness in Moby Dick and Shakesperean structure to celebrate the beginnings of serious American writing.  What most interested me in Moby Dick was the language, the inaccessible songs, monologues, and various allusions made in the darkness on the ocean waters.  So wipe the spermacetti off your face and do a close reading of the text.	2003-07-02
US	49210446	R1ZS8R779FWMT1	0395574234	826587377	Manhattan Transfer	Books	3	35	37	N	N	Literary Subway Ride	Manhattan Transfer is a subway ride through New York - both across its geographic landscape - a burgeoning metropolis, the heart of the American economy; but also, slums, dark alleys and industrial wasteland.  Likewise it is a ride across the ethnic and social landscape - self-made men, fatcats, bored bourgeois bohemians and anarchists, destitute immigrants, ambitious chorus girls, and washed up stock brokers.<br />Dos Passsos's book is like a running paragraph that only briefly stops to take us from one sub-scape to another - his voyeuristic way of relating the social current of WWI and 1920's New York to the everyday lives of people, many of whom are caught up in that current.  Dos Passos does not quite uncover any new ground or dig deep into any one point - he covers a lot of ground - there is a sense of equilibrium one gets from reading his prose.  Just a few just-below the surface issues he tackles are the budding concerns of untested feminism, the moral puritanism of the Prohibition; less oblique are the issues of unfettered capitalism.<br />Indisputably, Dos Passos's ability to weave in and out of lives while weaving the tapestry of an exciting period in NY and America is admirable.  Still, there is an aloofness in a book whose characters are less important to the story than the social forces that encompass them.  With no one to anchor the story (despite some possible tenable arguments for the recurring characters), the story just keeps floating along.  It doesn't have to end after 400 pages, it can run on ad infinitum.	2003-05-19
US	49210446	R2L6KDXLUOJ1N9	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Wonderfully Complex Writer	Mann is to be struggled with; his work to be attacked and repulsed - it is the embodiment of engaging, challenging fiction.  It may be advisable to start out with Mario and the Magician, a splendid and accessible story of a hypnotist performing amazing acts on an incredulous audience that is itself hypnotic in alluring its character audience and the reader into a seeminly pedestrian story that turns out to have a whimsical, fantastic denouement.  M&M also doubles as a grand metaphor for the fascism that was beginning to grip Germany - the awesome power of a tyrant and the dangerous nakedness of a raptured audience.<br />Mann passes the test of great writing, in that even in translation, one can appreciate the literary dexterity of a master at work - a writer carried away, inhabiting each sentence of his story.  Some of his lesser stories, towards the end of the anthology, are sprawling introspectives and thoroughgoing accounts of places and things.  <br />Death in Venice is a seminal work and sets the tone for Mann's subtle revelations of repressed passions and the tabboo.  Mann elegantly lays bare human souls, yet keeping the lid safely fastened to the pressured jar.  One of my favorites was Toni Kroger - a touching story of an artist's life, from young man to mature adult.  Mann renders beautifully unrequited love and homosocial admiration by the introverted for the extroverts.  In reading his stories, we may find that he expresses memories and feelings that were always there, but could not find the words for before.  That, perhaps, is the highest achievement of a writer.	2003-04-21
US	49210446	R1KXEZ9H4YBVV7	0684803348	156249009	The Short Stories: The First Forty-nine Stories with a Brief Preface by the Author	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Quintissential Hemingway	A great anthology that could also be a primer on Hemingway.  The beauty of this book is the access to Hemingway's work and personal timeline.  You can see the writer at the height of his powers, you can see him hit his peaks and valleys.  Similarly, you may notice Hemingway's sentiments changing from his green years to maturity.<br />This collection exhibits the best of Hemingway's storytelling, in his classics such as ...Francis Macombre, Snows of Kilimajaro. Up In Michigan, Big 2 Hearted River, his coming of age stories in the Nick Adams series, and a multitude of vignettes - some unfinished, though rarely overdone.  Always present is Hemingway's commitment to evoking the sensual qualities of his surroundings and experiences - his reporter's instinct for capturing places and moments.<br />Ernest never uses his subjects to reach for higher truths.  The immediacy of reality seems enough, if only he can capture it.  Consistency is also seen throughout the stories in Hemingway's choice of characters - his breave, determined, cool and calm men and women, brief in speech but loud in actions.  They dreams are muted by reality, beautifully subdued but resonant.  Reading the stories, you can feel the writer grow, writing and revising, expanding and abridging.  It is the style he cultivated in his stories that he perfected in his novels.	2003-04-05
US	49210446	R25DECR00GCCX3	0452275660	459128218	The Book of Daniel	Books	2	10	28	N	N	Novel or Thesis?	This book reads much like a rough draft of a grad thesis, which is part of the premise as Doctorow's protragonist Daniel (aka Rosenbergs' son) works on a research paper, trying to make sense of his past.  That is to say, it is quite boring and at times, quite desultory.  It took me over a year to finish this book - expect it to be boring.<br />The story concerns itself with the fate of the Rosenberg children (&quot;Isaacsons&quot;), who are seriously dysfunctional individuals - spiritually disconnected and morally confused, despite the facade of Daniel's conventional adult life.  The book takes on many issues particular to the Cold War period - the New Left, activism, and the blinding of justice by reactionary ideology.  None of these ideas are analyzed in a very interesting way, and Doctorow's prose is not exactly melodious.  Just my reaction - many people will find this book intriguing.  Its subject matter, anyway, is plenty to chew on.	2003-03-15
US	49210446	R1H1JJJD5DXKUT	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Timeless Reminder of Our Short Memory	George Orwell is doubtless one of the great thinkers of the 20th century.  With Animal Farm, he cements himself as a pithy and moralistic speaker for a tumultous sociopolitical era.  Animal Farm, amazingly written so soon after WWII, when much of the West was still blind to the horrors of Russian communism, not to mention the truths behind the failing experiment.<br />Orwell is a historian who analyzes history as it occurs - a risky endeavor, but his exceptional capacity for discerning truth from chaos and for clairvoyance are unrivaled.  Animal Farm tells the story of farm animals who rebel against their master and set out to achieve an animal utopia based on equality, hard work, and good will.  As their project is executed, though, it reveals features reflexive of human evolution - greed, ambition, the need to chart differences and draw borders, and the eternal desire to have dominion over all others.<br />Animal Farm is not only a good general outline of human political flaws, but also a keen study in some of Red Communism's specifics.  Orwell shows knowledge of his subject, not settling for vague inferences and over-obvious dichotomies.  Rather, his satiro-ideological allegory portrays the entire social spectrum of masters and slaves, rulers and masses, idealogues and tyrants.  A great counter to the Communist Manifesto, it answers with enough verbal economy and irony.	2003-02-18
US	49210446	RQP8ZDXWGXG8T	0151006903	99041831	Baudolino	Books	4	1	1	N	N	How History Was Made	A necessary disclaimer in reviewing any translated book is that it is a depreciated version of the original, though the best we've got.  Every translation also gives off an unintended impression that the original text does not to a native speaker.  In this instance, it seemed that in this simplified tone and jumpy pace this book could easily qualify as fantasy or an adventure novel for teenagers.<br />Obviously, there is much more to it than that (themes often lose the punctuation they receive from the lyricism of original language).  Eco tackles the Middle Ages with the aplomb of a diligent historian.  It is easy to tell how much the author loves his subject in his detailed though fortunately not harping narrative jaunts into the Crusades, the ignorant barbarism of the Crusaders, the politics of church and state before the two were separated, the romantic celebrity of civil nobility in a stifling caste system, the schism between the Christian East and West, dreams of discovery in a time when the world seemed flat and less finite - full of wonder, relics, and scientific curiosity.<br />We follow the unlikely adventures of Baudolino, son of a simple Italian farmer who is adopted by Emperor Frederick Barbarossa and given unimaginable opportunities, setting on a lifelong dream quest of exploration, adventure, and transient romance.  The story is told by Niketas, a Greek nobleman listening to Baudolino's story, as Eco does not forget to kindle the issue of narrational trust.  Here this is especially crucial as we are reading autobiographically-skewed history.  If history is written by the victors, Baudolino proves it can also written by imaginative farmers given the right opportunity and disciples.	2003-01-27
US	49210446	RI05A0XNVX69S	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Way too Late	I should have read this book when I was in junior high, 9th grade at most.  Perhaps the archetype for the modern me-against-the-world genre, the book is written and read like its character - on its own terms.<br />One thing I enjoyed reading Catcher(which is a breeze, if you don't know) is Salinger's characterization.  Holden Caufield is a thorougly original literary creation, and this is precisely why he resembles some of us so much.  Making a stand against growing up, the adult world, Caufield's account of life is entirely internalized.  His is a world so many of us encounter in the tender-rough years of the midteens - desolate; the people around us - alien; anything that makes us tick - wrong and immoral.<br />Holden Caufield has become synonymous with rebellion, so much so that it was inevitable for him to become a symbol.  Breathing life and a fierce air of independence into his hero, Salinger made him so understandable because of his own inability to understand anything.  Caufield's inner life, the momentousness of noneventfulness that is the all-too familiar teenageemotional rollercoaster is given full expression.  Neither a novel of adventures nor really a novel of \\"ideas,\\" you might call this the novel of protest - not of social protest, but of man against the world.  <br />Caufield is the expression of our latent dissatisfaction and bitterness with the way life shoves us along and time steals itself.  He is the audacity to walk out on a dishonest lecture class, to escape the friends who all seem so ignorant during a soul crisis, to ditch the drudgery of duty and responsibiliies on a whim.  Caufield is Peter Pan with a drinking habit and leery eyes.  He has vigor and the failure of rebellion.  Caufield is a palpable reality of the man who tries to step outside the sphere of the life he's thrown into.  He finds the door, but finally sees it's lonely on the other side.  Much like the choices we make when we open the door, Caufield steps back.	2003-01-13
US	49210446	R1N1T1S7IRE5TH	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Bell Tolls for Ernest	Perhaps the bell tolled for Ernest and his bid for literary greatness with the passing of this book.  Did Hemingway exhaust all his courage, strength, and virility in this work?<br />FWTBT is leagues away from The Sun Also Rises, taking themes from A Farewell to Arms to another level.  To the extent that Hemingway wanted to reach the apex of truth in storytelling, and to find a suitable language to express it, this book is a great achievement.  Hemingway chooses Spanish modulation of English words to power his narrative - from the start, the reader senses the honor, strength, and spirit every sentence spoken carries with it.  <br />Ernest is not just translating from Spanish to wow us; the reader feels that when he wrote this book, Spanish was the only language that could express his happiness, his sadness, his pleasure and suffering.  Maybe Spanish contained the words and meanings Hemingway and those involved in the war for Spanish liberty sought desperately every night by the campfire - words of fear and love.<br />To me, this book was Hemingway's most significant attempt at articulating his life philosophy.  It is ominous in the hero's struggles with his personal and family history - of duty, resignation and death, inability to hope or believe, or believe that happiness can last.  You might argue that El Sordo's last stand is followed by Hemingway's personal literary last stand - against fascism, fear, and life's various illusions.  This is Hemingway's last battle.  Thereafter, he is honorably discharged to a life of fishing and beautiful memoirs.	2002-12-15
US	49210446	R3J6LRXIRRSCXK	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Rabbit without a hole.	What this patently American story of a young man refusing to grow up lacks in substance, it covers with prose.  Rabbit Angstrom is a former high school basketball star whose glory days are in the past.  Rabbit is a poor man's Gatsby, a man of small means and abstract dreams too large for his mind to handle.  He becomes prey to the dangerous and rebellious tradition of self-exaltation - Raskolnikov without a scheme and an aim.  <br />Rabbit suffers from an early onset of mid-life crisis - one so confounding he does not know what he does or why he does it.  He runs away from his family, but he can't even leave the small-town milieu.  His escape is localized and small-scale, perhaps admissive of personal limitations and insignificance.  Updike doesn't quite denigrate small-town America - he clearly has appreciative affection for his small town life (though he often gets a little too cathartic with his self-assurances of religious truths).<br />Updike's language is a slow progression of action and aimless colloquial triteness with interspersed moments of pulsing, raw but poignant stream-of-consciousness - that's when Rabbit is really on the run.  In the eventlessness of small town life Updkike makes even scandals look like events of mundane existence.  There is a pervasive lack of excitement; even Rabbit's moments of self-awareness, or rather its beginnings, are lethargic and ultimately ineffectual.  Rabbit's rebellion is against his own long-exhausted role and purpose.  He is a &quot;flower stalk.&quot;	2002-11-30
US	49210446	R1PJENY61GG88A	0140442014	431703404	The Social Contract (Penguin Books for Philosophy)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Logical if not Inspiring	This highly quotable book has a lot of fundamental democratic principles - though many seem borrowed.  This text, at least in translation, is hardly lively or personal.  It is more of a political theorist's attempt to break things down for its target audience (the one its ideas are cocnerned with) - the people.  Some of Rousseau's beleifs regarding personal freedoms are rather cynical, and considering that he is writing a revolutionary free-thinking text, he seems to objectify his own theories more than is warranted while dismissing other possibilities.  Still, Rousseau's vision of social will compromising personal freedoms in the name of social progress is nothing if not untuitively appealing.  Some of his musings regarding socioeconomic factors and political attitudes are understandably cockamaney considering the lack of resources for sociological research druing his time.  His discussion of liberty with regard to indirect representation is a critical one and should be read by all lovers of freedom - even &quot;freedom in chains.&quot;	2002-11-16
US	49210446	R2DQ1KIKAJ6UPP	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Gospels according to Vonnegut.	This is Vonnegut's commentary on the 20th century - from overreliance on science and its callousness to religion and how political mismanagement makes spiritual revivals necessary.  Best of all, Vonnegut is clever and thought-provoking chapter after chapter.  His ideas, while they may not seem seminal today, are ever-important.<br />The story is based on a writer's research for a book cocnerning the dropping of the atom bomb.  Vonnegut's roots in scientific curioisity are everywhere in his writings, and crucial here.  He creates his comical cast of characters around the story of the atom bomb's fictional father - his midgit son, a 3rd world dictator, American imperialist, a former Nazi physician trying to expiate his sins, and a number of scientists, each defective in his own way and each unwilling to embrace moral responsibility to society.<br />Vonnegut's narrative flows like a biblical text that is seemingly frivolous, yet seems to tackle serious subjects with the utmost gravity.  This is vintage Vonnegut - tackling human weakness and tragedy with satire.	2002-11-16
US	49210446	RRP4IQ9CWPOHU	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny and Sincere...Possibly True?	Funny stuff from Sedaris, a guy who's qualified to write funny stories because he's lived them, one way or another.  I have no doubt that Sedaris stretches the truth in many of his anecdotes, but that's a sign of a good storyteller (after all, anyone could be passive witness to a great many funny incidents, but that doesn't mean we'll necessarily laugh with just anybody).  When you have this much amusing material, it's no coincidence - it's skill.<br />What I loved best was Sedaris's ability to tell ordinary yet quirky stories involving everyday yet hilarious people.  He does this without talking down, settling for empty sarcasm, or self-pity.  Here is an observant narrator both full of wit and imagination and free of cumbersome pretension.  From his blunt mom and deluded dad, to his innocently cruel but deliciously virulent sister, the supporting players (the subjects, even) are likeable and familiar.	2002-10-02
US	49210446	RWK814QOV5K5L	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sorry, Oprah, I'm...uhh...Busy	...The scope of this book is enormously far-reaching.  It is obvious almost from the start what a great amount of research went into this book.  While I admire the erudite perfectionism of Franzen's novel, I felt it also took away from its emotional center at times.  Franzen attempts partial omniscience on subjects as diverse as cooking and mathematics, chemistry and the Lithuanian historical landscape.  While I admire his vision, I find over-researched and over-reaching writing (supposing, even, that Franzen is expert on all of his subjects) bombastic and disingenuous, and Corrections sometimes approaches those boundaries.  Perfectionism can sometimes distract from the pure beauty of a single vision in its quest for comprehensive authority.	2002-09-21
US	49210446	R15RFRFYVRLRV2	0394726413	368227816	Bright Lights, Big City	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Light-Weight Anecdote	This book should be good for a roundtrip subway ride.  It seems to be the inspiration (while itself derivative) for other &quot;young-man-in-NY&quot; stories, including Davies's Frog King.<br />The narrator is a nameless second person voice in yet another story of anonymous Ivy League (proper names omitted) post-collegiate limbo.  I get rather tired of reading about these singular rehashings of the well-educated but immature and self-absorbed aspiring writers forever stuck in their all-encompassing artistic and spiritual block.  I am also sick of the over-represented 'dream of writing' - a tired and lazy choice of occupation because of its ambiguous objectives and mystical artistry.  Come on, friends, let's write about something far more fascinating and esoteric than deceptively vacuous hobbies.<br />There is little story, and what story there is is of little interest.  This book, while eliciting smiles at times, is nothing more than a trivial account of hooky work-evasion of a mid-20's male and coke-snorting social languor.  These narrators always come from the same place (the middle-class suburbian vacuum, are going nowhere slowly, and regard little besides themselves (which is to say, nothing of consequence).<br />Thus my search for a truly funny author (minus Heller and Vonnegut) continues.	2002-09-21
US	49210446	R1O10NKI8NT48Z	1573229385	655539900	The Frog King	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Getting There	Mimicking his narrator's personal resolution, Adam Davies writes a book that's not quite great or flawless, but clearly a labour of love and full of promise.  This is, as the front cover blurb from Bret Easton Ellis informs us, a young-guy-in-New York novel.  Therefore, we get the obligatory share of depravity, egoism, enthusiasm, excessive soul-searching.  Less expectedly, it is also a love story.  At least, it's an attempt at a love story from a self-involved young straggler whose stauch principles oppose cliches like 'love' - hence, an imposible task.<br />The Frog King is sharp when Davies picks apart the publishing industry from the inside (about 1/4 of the book), rather weak much of the way in detailing the romance (1/2), and sometimes hits notes of wondrous beauty in its third act.  There are some good laughs in this book, but certainly nothing riotous.  I was looking to learn more about publishing (being an aspiring editorial drone myself) and was disappointed that many juicy topics remained a mystery.<br />....<br />Harry's fall into disgustingly drawn-out self-pity dominates the third act.  Although the whole book is based on Harry's voice contemplating himself and how everything relates to him, the picture he leaves us with is cloudy - is he good, bad, self-loathing, traumatized, cynical, optimistic?  Harry is often enigmatic and contradictory.  The typical unhappy middle-class family life that is hinted at is never given the attention it deserves.  Evie gets it right when she calls Harry what he fears most: a cliche (young Ivy Leaguer, upper-middle class, no real conflicts so he creates them: troubled brother, contrived drinking problem, new-age evolved ideas about love).<br />In the last act Davies reveals that this book was a moral story all along.  He allows Harry to be a rascal for most of the book and get away with it, then suddenly to become penitent as he labors to a boring Dostoyevskian conclusion (involving redemption through the weak and unfortunate in demeaning roles) that nevertheless manages to remain hopefully unresolved.  Perhaps this is meant to illustrate the confusion of being young, egotistical, and knowing nothing about anything.  After all, the narrator does not believe in fortune cookies and epiphanies.	2002-09-01
US	49210446	R1V866WPW0B6UW	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Elegance in Simplicity	In dire need to catch up on contemporary letters scene, I purchased Russo's rural epic of small town-Maine.  Empire Falls is populated by characters you would expect to find in a town like this - underachiving dreamers like Miles Roby, ignorant hicks like James Minty, mystical moguls like Francine Whiting who seem to be pulling the strings of fate for the less fortunate, insecure but precocious girls like Miles's daughter.<br />The seductive, cunningly written text draws the reader into ordinary lives and makes them care about the characters.  To achieve this affect, Russo deployed the multi-perspectival third-person omniscient.  This allows him to channel his own multi-faceted meditations through the inner voices of people of various ages, genders, and social stations.  Externally, the dialogue is well-written: deadpan funny at times, absolutely touching at others.<br />One deep theme in the book is the passive personal perdition that gets lost in the sands of time.  Things like ambition, love, and happiness are forgotten somewhere along the line when individually mild, but ultimately consequential compomises are made.  Russo explores the human basics - spirituality, lust, envy, fear, anger, irrationality, failure, impotence, frustration, greed, power, hate, insecurity, et al.  He is interested in what makes us who we are and memory - omniscient introspective chapters figure into the narrative between the progressing plot.<br />The conclusion, perhaps striving for a neorealist unreconcilability, is somewhat unwieldy considering the gargantuan effort the author put into his buildup and characterizations.  Overall, however, this book stands out as proof that simple stories are richer for good writing.  The mighty pen exalts the unexceptional.	2002-08-26
US	49210446	RFBLYLUS4SHUT	0192834444	586166490	The Importance of Being Earnest and Other Plays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wit of the Brit	\\"All women become like their mothers.  That is their tragedy.  No man does.  That's his.<BR>Is that clever?<BR>It's perfectly phrased! and quite as true as any observation in civilized life should be.\\"<br />This is just one of the many jocular exchanges and epigrams in this short but brilliant social satire.  Wilde wryly and cleverly gets his claws into the upper caste and its twisted moral etqieuette, romantic relationships, and self-critically the propensity for sententious moral (and aesthetic) self-guidance.<br />Dispensing with politeness and social convention through his farcical dialogue, Wilde unleashes his comic criticism on all types of hypocrisies and spurious norms.  The Importance of Being Ernest is always subversive and funny, but never crude or sophomoric.	2002-08-24
US	49210446	RIDU7M01A4DH9	0140256369	628563700	Of Love And Other Demons (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Marginally magical, rarely realistic	Yes, this book probably lost a star or so being read by me in translation.  There's good reason - at times, the English version of the Spanish text feels like a moderately-paced plot synopsis, at others like a stack of stage directions.  Surely Marquez's prose is more poetic than that.<br />On is own merits, the book never seems to establish the right pace.  Issues concerning the Marquis, Sirva Maria, and her mother (as well as other characters) are brought up vaguely and left inadequately explored.  Perhaps this book would have benefited from a fleshing out of the characters and themes Marquez wanted to explore.<br />The idea of love as a demon (especially when set against the backdrop of Spanish religious draconiansm and cruel colonialism) is compelling, but these kinds of single-metaphor investments are always a liability for onerous anticlimax.  Too short to make itself poignant, too long for what it purports to show.	2002-08-23
US	49210446	R1G5MOSL8C5XSU	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Write Locally, Think Universally.	Empire Falls is a wonderful book I had purchased because I was completely in the dark on contemporary literature. Going low-risk, I bought into its Pulitzer Prize Hype. The prose is pure and extremely seductive in its simplicity; this is one of the most facile yet shrewd narratives that I have ever read.<br />The story is a provincial epic of Empire Falls, a small Maine town full of people you'd be likely to find in such a town. Promising but underachieving romantics like Miles Roby, a grill manager who never quite made it out. Thrash like Jimmy Minty, a corrupt cop and a bully, perpetuating the cycle of stubborn male ignorance in his family. Mystical blue-blood puppermasters like Francine Whiting, an aging woman whose power and life energy seem to be eternal. Tick Roby, a precocious but insecure teenage daughter of Miles. And many, many more in this ensemble piece.<br />Reviews of this book have described the prose as 'deceptive.' Not a bad descriptor considering what Russo manages to do: deliver a life's worth of his own meditations and concerns through characters of various genders, age groups, and social statuses. By employing his third-person omniscient in a multi-perspectival flow, Russo gives us a deeper understanding of the often exploited supporting casts. Consequently, we get a better idea of how people become (or remain) who they are, what motivates them to change, and the limitations of human capacity for self-improvement.<br />Who we are is decided not only by our own will-power, but by other people: young, dear, rich, old, powerful, hateful, debased. It is also decided by circumstances, birth, religion, and social attitudes.<br />One deep theme in the book is the passive personal perdition that gets lost in the sands of time. Things like ambition, love, and happiness are forgotten somewhere along the line when individually mild, but ultimately consequential compomises are made. Russo explores the human basics - spirituality, lust, envy, fear, anger, irrationality, failure, impotence, frustration, greed, power, hate, insecurity, et al. He is interested in what makes us who we are and memory - omniscient introspective chapters figure into the narrative between the progressing plot.<br />Russo's literary touch is grounded in realism, and he is masterful in alternating between deapan conversational humor and touching affection in relationships. Russo's narrator is obsessed with memory and the past, moving carefully between memory and unfolding life, properly quoting Fitzgerald and closing with something of a tribute to the great author. He tackles family ties, love, parenthood, faith, ambition, cruelty, greed, anger and angst with the help of his colorful crowd of townspeople. Russo proves that some authors have not lost the ability to be simple and profound.<br />The conclusion, perhaps striving for a neorealist unreconcilability, is somewhat unwieldy considering the gargantuan effort the author put into his buildup and characterizations. Overall, however, this book stands out as proof that simple stories are richer for good writing. The mighty pen exalts the unexceptional.	2002-08-22
US	49210446	R37FE148LC8TOM	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Nothing Sacred	In his biting social satire, Bulgakov take no prisoners.  His chef d'oeuvre tells us of Satan's descent into 1930's Moscow and the chaotic consequences of the absurd meeting between a supernatural entity and a society that denies him.  The devil, a paradox ironically explained as a hypnotist by a bureaucratic social monolith that is itself hypnotized (or, perhaps more accurately, enslaved, by Stalin), exposes the silliness of mass atheism, the materialistic pettiness of a rationed socialist economy, the moral excesses of self-righteous hypocrites, and the self-disgust of corrupt artists.  <br />One of the more interesting things to consider in this book is the 'hierarchy of creation,' highlighted by the parallel narration of the Pilate-Jesus story.  Since Satan tells the same story that the Master conjures up in his mind, what are we to make of the origins of good and evil, of God, of Satan, and of human beings themselves?  Further, the original take on the Christ story raises issues such as the accuracy of Gospels.  <br />\\"Manuscripts don't burn,\\" Satan famously declares, and indeed, Berlioz and his Stalinist compatriots don't seem fated to eradicate the Bible.  This quote also seems to encapsulate Bulgakov's own hopes that his works would survive the test of time and ultimately find appreciation in a country and time whose leaders suppressed his talents.<br />Bulgakov's prose is light and comical, if his ideas are substantial.  After the devil is done debunking Moscow society, there is a headless master of ceremonies, an invisible bureacrat, literateurs and other hacks flooding the mental hospital and disappearing.  The demonic cat Behemoth and translator Koroviev/Fagot provide ample satire with their high-flown speech and ironic ersatz naivete.  The presence of an irrational power in a rationalistic system provides subversive elements suggesting a postmodern ethos.  Some of the passages concerning the romance between the title characters are surprisingly moving,given the satirical undercurrents of this novel.  Recommended reading (in Russian if you can)!	2002-08-11
US	49210446	R3QW1RZ512754U	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Intriguing but Incomplete	I bought this book hoping to gain a little perspective on the history of bad blood between the Arab world and the West, in order to quell any possible doubts about the obvious givens - that the Arab world is vastly inferior and Islam has not been kind to it in modern times.  While the book offers some very interesting examples from the author's scholarship, they are scattered in the midst of fragmented ideas.  The book is brief, and seems more like a stapled collection of historical sketches (taken from lecture notes) than a completely coherent analysis of a complex phenomenon.  The summary at the end comes like a payoff, but it does not come at a logical time, cutting off the flow of the argument.  Furthermore, it seems like many of these ideas are rehashed, lacking the enthusiastic voice of original scholarship.  However, I will give it the benefit of the doubt for being well-intentioned and holding the right opinions.	2002-07-11
US	49210446	R3IK5OVRBWTXUG	0075536668	161451712	The Sound and The Fury	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Laborious Masterpiece	A greak work of art?  Yes, this book is the product of many days of calculated labor.  It arguably requires the same or greater labor to read it.  Be mindful, this is not the great book that can be devoured avariciously and loved unconditionally, like a Gatsby.<br />Faulkner takes us once again to his fictional county in Mississippi and attempts to get at realism and truth through fictional abstraction.  The story is simple (based on an image of a little girl that impressed the author so) - the downfall of an American (Southern) family, a subject taken up quite often in great American fiction.<br />Faulkner's novel approach is in his modernist narration, a regurgitation of a single story through the eyes of 3 siblings and even the black maid who takes care of the Compton family.  Many writers experimented with stream-of-consciousness around Fualkner's time, and he offers his own take on it.<br />This book must be read with great patience, especially the first two parts, whose narrators are a retarded man and a crestfallen boy, respectively.  Faulkner chooses his narrators carefully - Benji, for instance, to illustrate one of the motivations of the book's philosohpy: Shakespeare's submission that the life is nothing but \\"sound and fury\\", a \\"tale told by an idiot.\\"<br />As despondent as the characters nay seem and hopeless as their lives appear, the book offers consolation and hope in a surprising final chapter.  There is anger, pathos, dark humor, and heart here.  Frustrating and incoherent if approached with impatience, the books becomes an emotional and spiritual experience when read with sympathy and care.  Caveat emptor.	2002-06-16
US	49210446	R1WOWQWBBFO2F0	0684830426	193175702	The Great Gatsby (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	America the Beautiful, America the Ugly	Can't repeat the past?  Why of course you can, says Gatsby.  Essentially, this is the prototypical Great American Novel - that old cliche of pop literary culture so often used by writers and laymen alike.  The book conflates America's promise of the past, corruption of the present, and hope for the future.  It is the beautiful and ugly side of American ambition, optimism, and sense of invincibility that makes so many Americans feel immortal.<br />The story, which Mencken inevitably declared to be a trivial anecdote, is nevertheless an exciting look into twentysomething romanticism.  Glamorous parties, nouveuax riche and old money values colliding, the luxury of youthful idleness, whirlwind romance.  This is the perfect book for a high school student with dreams.<br />More than anything, this book struck me as a metaphor for timeless American ethos.  Gatsby makes the paradoxical attempt to move against the tide of the future to bring back the past.  He wants, like so many people, to bring back that magical moment in his life when he thought life was eternal, the world was beautiful, and he was the biggest man in it.  He wants to recapture the love that opened a plethora of infinite possibilities, turning his back on the reality of changing times and changing people.<br />Gatsby's greatness is in making himself and others believe the sublime fantasy that thinks itself real.  He wants his Daisy as so many other people have wanted theirs - pure, perfect, and existing solely for him.  The ambition to defeat life may become tragic, but it never gives up hope - the hope of a better, stronger tomorrow.  And in the end, it is action that moves the world, but it is hope that keeps the world alive.	2002-05-05
US	49210446	R31VSJRNS3ABH7	0140180923	115107087	Lord Jim (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Timeless Tale of Conscience and Morality	Conrad is not only one of the finest stylists writing in the English language, he is also one of the best to tackle moral issues.  A good writer, as we know, does not preach morality, but rather conjures up bits of life that really make us think about who we are.  Lord Jim is the story of a man poised to be at the pinnacle of human heroism and ability, who comes face to face with the horror of his weaknesses.  Jim is a guy who gives us every sign of being a hero, a reason for pride in the human race, only to take flight at the last moment.  Having committed a brutal act of betrayal in a moment of weakness, he sets off to escape his conscience - running away but never quite getting away.  No matter how many good things a man can do, Conrad shows us, he can undo in a few seconds.<br />Colonialism figures heavily into the thematic core of the book.  We are made to think throughout about the issue of race and racial relations.  Does the Western conscience always, if even subconsciously, think itself superior or of more worth to the Eastern?  Do we overlook heinous evils in others in favor of tenuous racial connections and conformist attitudes?  All of this is explored in the book, as Conrad takes us on an escape from the heart of darkness.	2001-12-17
US	49210446	R1QWZME22J77FX	0451523822	178013325	Fathers and Sons	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Of Family, Love, and Nihilism	This book is known mostly, perhaps, for the character of Bazarov, widely considered the vanguard of nihilism in literature, especially in Russia.  Bazarov is a significant fact of fiction, a sketch of the young middle class intellegentsia developing in Russia in the second half of the 19th century.  Brash, self-confident, iconoclastic, educated young men like Bazarov were popping up all over Russia.  Turgenev finds a way to tie this into a rich tapestry of love, familial relationships, and simplicity that Arkady and Bazarov, the young men, succumb to.  Even in his determination to change the world by destroying it so it can be rebuilt, Bazarov does not overcome the strong bonds of family.  Love and family has the sort of redemptive power found so often in War and Peace, and indeed, Turgenev writes from a similar perspective and on a similar wavelength as Tolstoy.  This book, while not big on plot, is to be appreciated for blending its simple prose with a poetic passion in showing how love between fathers and sons is ageless, and love between men and women occurs.  I found the last passage very moving.	2001-11-03
US	49210446	R1W2G0HEMGM2YU	0140440356	125142565	The Devils: The Possessed (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Quintessential Dostoyevsky	This is an amazing book.  Pervaded by Dostoevsky's usual characterization, the author reaches into the souls of his numerous characters as only he and very few others can.  This story has Dostoevsky's favorite existential philosophic undercurrents.  The story is an account of how the budding socialist revolutionary movement affects one small Russian town.  Dostoevsky gives this phenomenon the treatment it deserves - a mocking condescension with an amusing portrayal or people who are drawn to radical movements.  The result is a novel filled with humor.  The tragedy is is presented as a natural consequence of people who are making mistakes at every step, confusing sensibility for absurdity.  That is what their &quot;possession&quot; really is.  It is about a whole generation caught up in the materialization and nihilism of the 19th century resulting from the scientific revolution.  To me, this book is on par or surpasses The Brothers Karamazov.  It may be viewed as either an atheistic challenge taken up in the latter book or as a repudiation of atheism manifested in one level of the latter.  Whatever it is, it's more proof that Dostoevsky is the greatest writer who ever lived.	2001-07-31
US	49210446	R26923CIY9VYZW	0140481346	826622434	Death of a Salesman (Penguin Plays)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Death of an American Dream	This meaty play is yet another 20th century literary attack on the American Dream and yet another look at the frustrated search for meaning in human life.  Willy Loman is a representative for a generation of &quot;salesmen&quot; - men who have led a shallow existence, filled with false dreams which shadow their purer yearnings.  He travels about, rooting his dreams in the least stable and most ephemeral grounds - merchandise.  Unwilling to admit the emptiness of his ambitions and the failure of his<br />life, Willy detaches himself from reality.  His sons, raised on the same false beliefs and optimism, misplacing their own hopes  and confusing their individual niches, each fail in their own way.  When one finally remembers who he is, it's too late.  This is an American tragedy and a touching account of fatherly love, by an author who brings much sympathy to his misguided hero.	2001-07-30
US	49210446	R1F5R6BJYMZXDA	0671722778	43217624	Merchant of Venice (Folger Shakespeare Library)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Controversy, theology, ambiguity	This may be the most controversial (to modern culture) play that Shakespeare wrote.  It deals with the racial disparities popularly belived in Shakespeare's day to exist between Christians and Jews.  Christianity is presented as a tenet of generosity, goodwill, charity, celebration, and joy.  Judaism, however, is contrasted starkly as a sort of disease that plagues its followers, causing them to be miserly and humorless.  Shakespeare gives us some very direct social commentary that rivals his work in The Tempest.  Evidence that Shakes is trying to make a point is the way he plants a typical Jewish merchant with reasonable grievances in a field of blind and clearly absurd (albeit our modern bias of &quot;evolved sensibilities&quot;) stereotypes accepted as the norm.  The regular helping or irony is served up by an ambiguously glossy denouement, leaving more questions than answers on justice and prejudice.	2001-07-20
US	49210446	RC7CTR5ON1KBE	0060812486	919638883	The Outsider (Perennial Library)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Made me yawn through parts of Crime and Punishment	Socially less valuable than Native Son, but better literature. Long overlooked book. If you read no other Wright book, read this one. Like Blackboy, gives an indepth look into American Communism. Despite obvious symbolism of blacks as &quot;outsiders,&quot; is much more intriguing when race issue is put into backseat in favor of more universal idea. Can we judge those that are not capable of accepting a society's morality and rules by that society's standards and castigate them with that society's penalties? Is it inevitable that your life will catch up with you if you run away from it? Go and get yourself a copy.	2001-07-18
US	49210446	R2LVLWVL9MKG68	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Absurd, funny, frightening	You wake up one day to find yourself a giant vermin.  Great idea, right?  What would you do?  An absurd question, but belief and rationale must be suspended.  The answer is simple, you'd do nothing.  You'd submit your fate into the hands of other people with a sigh.  After the shocking introductory statement, Kafka's hero comes down off his initial excitement and is isolated from the outside world inside his room.  This is probably the proper decision to keep the book from becoming a mere comic fantasy.  I won't comment on the interpretations that the author opens to the reader - that is the fun of reading it.  Gregor Samsa can be an existential hero, a victim of the modern industrial order, a hollow character who achieves depth with his transformation.  You might even call this magical realism.  Literally, that's what it is.	2001-06-25
US	49210446	R36RFIX4LY75G4	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Survival Story	This book is possibly a more important historical document than a work of literature, especially when read in translation.  This is the story of a single, ordinary day in the life of a labor camp prisoner in Stalin's Russia.  The narrative is involving as it has that quality of documenting detail on which the character's survival depends, the way Dafoe documented Crusoe's life.  You don't have to know very much about Russia or history to read this book.  It is an account of simple human survival in the harshest and most dehumanizing conditions.  Its honest, raw language and first-hand source places it into the tradition of modern realism.  Ivan Denisovich is not out to teach us something about human resilience, only the desire to live.  He is not out to make a profound political statement, since conclusions can be easily made by the reader.  The conditions of life Solzhenitsyn depicts are so injust and harrowing that the reader has little choice but to denounce the regime which enacted such terror.  In the end, this is a story of the simplest instinct of survival under the most artifical conditions of bondage.	2001-06-25
US	49210446	R2EP0V0RQMEEPQ	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Romantic prose	This was a very nice war-time romance, but not what I expected.  The story, while always downplayed, is quite gripping at times.  It's always interesting to track adventures across Europe in an unusual setting.  Hemingway employs his famous journalistic style again.  I get rather sick of Hemingway's &quot;strong characters.&quot;  I have never met people like these, I guess he has.  Something just didn't click.  I guess you have to be a Hemingway fan.  Obviously, don't look for a story with a point.  This is another documentation of a nit of human experience.  Take it for what it's worth.	2001-06-16
US	49210446	R10UYWXQ1MR0WG	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Funny, Imaginative, Touching	This was a really cool book.  It's a humorous account of a soldier's passive trip through war and consequently, the rest of his life.  Vonnegut pretends to give us an deconstructed time and plot structure, while he is actually giving us a pretty conventional one.  Nevetheless, I found it pretty clever.  I know that Vonnegut is supposedly a moral writer, but I don't think that this book needs to be read as such.  I think it's what you make of it.  Slaughterhouse Five is always fun, never truly sad - this is what makes it clever.  I think Vonnegut took a risk by creating a story in which commonly sad and depressing things are dismissed as trivial, but of course the author clearly doesn't believe they are.  His statements are about war, not pronouncements on the vagueries of the &quot;the human condition.&quot;	2001-06-04
US	49210446	R4KXDTYGNKFGV	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Honest, emotional prose	Mencken said thet Steinbeck was a very good writer who picked unworthy characters to study.  I can't agree completely with that.  Grapes of Wrath is an important expose of the way simple people were affected by the Great Depression and industrial changes to the agricultural sector.  Overly sentimental and melodramatic at times, it is true that Steinbeck exploits the sad nature of his lowly characters to elicit pity.  Still, I found his style clear and the plot interesting enough to overlook these deficiencies.  The narrator documents the trip down Route 66 of an Oklahoma dust farm family.  They are headed toward California dreams and encounter much adversity along the way.  I think the book should be read as a relevant period piece and enjoyed as an American family saga.	2001-05-27
US	49210446	R1RN6SP87MZ21A	0060958308	377218208	The Assistant (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Tough, Gritty Fiction	As I recall, this was a pretty good book.  It is not the most readable novel featuring a pretty ordinary story filled with pretty unextraordinary characters.  However, I liked the way it was delivered - tough, realistic, rarely embellished.  It tells the story of a Jewish grocer's relationship with an Italian thug in Brooklyn.  I read with the same feeling I might have of my own daily life.  Every inflatable theme is curbed by sober reality - friendship, love, sex, marriage, crime, duty, &quot;redemption.&quot;  A recommended read.	2001-05-27
US	49210446	R3QP55CNL8O78Z	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Flawed, but Entrancing Camus	I didn't think this book rose to the achievement of The Stranger in terms of the nuances and all the things contained in every passage of The Stranger.  However, the prose is just as excellent.  This book is essentially the confession of a Parisian lawyer who, like many existential heroes, experiences a transformation out of self-reflection and adopts an unconventional attitude towards society.  In this case, he becomes a \\"judge-penitent\\" (read the book to understand this concept), a man who absolves and convicts people.  He twists our perception of human guilt and innocent before one another and the whole human race.  While I found some of his long-winded speeches too gratuitious and abstract for a novel, it fits the philosophical mold of the book.  This is a keen psychological dig into human conscience and the despair rising out of the modern spiritual need.	2001-05-25
US	49210446	R11CUJTPPUMOCL	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An Essential American Novel	This book instantly became one of my favorites and persuaded me to read almost all of Wright's other work.  This is probably the most complete of all his novels.  The story is of Bigger Thomas, a black teenager growing up in a Chicago ghetto.  As Bigger gets invovled with white people, he is led into an absurd murder.  Wright was fascinated with the moment of panic and confusion.  He saw it as leading to violence and absurd, meaningless actions with high social consequences.  Bigger, like Wright's other heroes, stands above his crime, the latter serving merely as a prop that accentuates the problems that lead him to his actions.  Through close character study, we see the core of the problem for so many African Americans.  Contact with whites is dangerous, and often leads to downfall.  Bigger is not a criminal - he is a victim and a hero, in a way.  He's a victim of the society that made such instincts as his possible, and a hero because he was man enough to claim his action.  Bigger Thomas is an anti-hero, a dark martyr.	2001-05-24
US	49210446	R30JL2IPMONNF9	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Short Read	If you get a chance, pick this book up.  It's the story of a butler who travels down memory lane and questions the decisions he made in his life.  Ishiguro does that very admirable literary task - creating an interesting story solely out of a perfectly uninteresting figure.  This book shows just how many significant moral choices lie in the seemingly insignificant life and its moments.  Remains of the Day is also very human in its treatment of remorse, regret, reflection, and acceptance.  We see the quiet life of a butler through his quiet mind and how loud the consequences of his choices were.	2001-05-24
US	49210446	R3TKTNEKQGSQJD	0140707077	43217624	Othello (The New Penguin Shakespeare)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pure Tragedy	This play embodies tragedy, and may be my favorite play by Shakes.  Othello has wonderful elements - some of the most unbearable and longest dramatic irony of any play, a devilish villain whose true motives we are left to guess, a virtuous but flawed protagonist, the triumph of evil over good.  Othello is a gut-wrenching play and should be appreciated for its sheer dramatic energy and passion.  Certainly other questions are explored - such as the issue of racial insecurities even in a successful and admired man among prejudiced people.  However, perhaps the most important things to take out of it is the sheer evil that Iago spreads around him, puppeteering the good characters with strings of wickedness.	2001-05-23
US	49210446	RJ8US5ZF0W98W	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Ghosts, guilt, and graveyards	Ah, yes.  Hailed by many as Shakespeare's Magnum Opus (is that right?), this is certainly one of his most significant dramatic works.  Hamlet is an atmosperic story of internalization - of feelings (guilt, love, hatred), of people, thoughts, and actions.  Marked by indecision and a strong sense of self-pity and self-consciousness, Hamlet makes the slow transition from fear to determination in his quest to avenge his father's death.  Oedipal complex, supernatural powers, royal incest, revenge - these are all explored in the play.  Several famous questions are posed and thoughts explored - of existence, suicide, meaning, value.  Hamlet is just packed with philosophy, psychology, and humanity.  A must-read in which you will find many of the most famous soliloquies in all of Shakespeare.  Thrown in Yorick's skull, poor Ophelia, good Horatio, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, you've got yourself one awesome play.	2001-05-23
US	49210446	R3VQZ53XGYX1XT	048627053X	320431222	Notes from the Underground (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Essence of Existentialist Fiction	This book is superior to Nausea.  I hope that everyone gets a chance to read it.  This is a crucial doctrine of 19th century despair and anguish and a facet of individualism.  It shows a man who is agonized by his own hypersensitive self-consciousness.  The story is of course riddled with Dostoyevsky's trademark contradictory piety and skeptcism, redemption through fallen souls, etc.  It's not the story of a particular man but a vision of modern man and his need to go underground.  Read this book and go underground with him!	2001-05-21
US	49210446	R3PI4VKSQTGB82	0486404277	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Adventure	This book is sometimes credited as the first official novel.  It starts out slow, but the story pulled me in as I lived as a castaway along with Crusoe.  His resourcefulness and thoughts and feelings are what keeps us interested in the story.  Once you have read a few chapters, you won't want to put it down.  A very good adventure story, this book works on different levels - a romantic tale for children and an intriguing look into human nature for adults.  I would recommend it for readers of all ages.	2001-05-21
US	49210446	R2VBDM4JTGZ71J	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Preamble for The Fountainhead	As a story, Anthem is not in the same league as Brave New World.  However, much like Roark's Temple for the worship of Man, it is admirable and inspiring.  Ayn Rand has a way of making you believe in things the way only religion is usually successful in.  Anthem is a response to a philosophical threat, not a concrete one.  It is important to its time and the Socialist Craze of Ayn Rand's era.  Please read this first if you intend to read The Fountainhead.  If nothing else, Ayn Rand inspires - to think , to do, to become happy.  She offers solutions to problems that don't seem to have any.  She does her part to create goals in life.  Do you?	2001-05-20
US	49210446	R7M6YV4Q2CWV9	0393308804	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea: A Novel	Books	2	13	21	N	N	Atmospheric, but Dull	This book is a reworking of Jane Eyre by a Creole writer.  It drags on and on, employing multiple narrative perspectives, shifting from one to the next and back again.  Very atmospheric with strong pathos throughout, I just didn't enjoy the story.  Don't expect to be uplifted.  The plot just dragged on towards the inevitable.  Rochester was not at all a sympathetic character.  If Jane Eyre created a wronged madwoman and left her in the attic after a brief visit, Wide Sargasso Sea creates an absolutely mean Rochester whose behavior seems too manufactured as a feminist revenge.	2001-05-20
US	49210446	R21LNY9GT7252X	0553210351	990247892	The Death of Ivan Ilyich (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Death brought to Life	This novella is a poignant meditation on death.  I can't imagine a tougher subject to think about, let alone write about.  With his characteristic humanistic style, Tolstoy depicts the stages of man's death, from cognizance to acceptance.  It may not be a completely accurate blanket account of death, but it sure seems to come close to what death might be like.  Mortality is always difficult to come to grips with, and Tolstoy handles the subject beautifully, giving us, as he did with War and Peace, not answers but what he feels is the inevitable.	2001-05-20
US	49210446	R69V752MXN40Y	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Emotional Literature	This book was a groundbreaking work of romanticism.  Feelings, moods, and nature pretty much set the tone for all the action of the book.  The story is sad and the hero pathetic, but we care for him.  This book is an important assertion of irrationalism in both life and art, and the role of poetry in human reasoning.  This is probably a good introduction to Goethe and one of the major phases in the evolution of the novel's form.	2001-05-20
US	49210446	RF36Y4A2TVWQM	0801856582	228728514	Minority Report (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Meat of Mencken	This is a wonderful collection of pithy Mencken writings which you may often see quoted.  If you have no intention of reading his full essays, read this.  This was one of the best bathroom books I have ever had.  It is funny, amusing, nihilistic, and condescendingly brutal (or is it brutally condescending?).  Mencken writes with the authority of a god, but one with a strong sense of humor and an honest reverence for honesty.  This is one of the most original, interesting, and inspirational American writers period.  So pick up a copy and see your illusions melt away.	2001-05-20
US	49210446	RINC2RN309S6W	0913745405	394688921	A Tempest	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Probably better on stage	Yes, this is a re-working of The Tempest from a Caribbean perspective.  Cesaire basically extrapolates Shakespeare's anti-colonial criticism and backfits the story into that scheme.  Of course, the play is modernized and packed with civil rights movement references.  Caliban has a stronger role, but very hackneyed.  This play reads like a political pamphlet; everything is spelled out for you.  I think it has social importance, but from a literary standpoint it was forgettable.	2001-05-07
US	49210446	R3I0DDEQAFEQPE	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beautiful Story	I was skeptical about Toni Morrison's greatness before I read any of her books.  Beloved is a beautiful book.  The lyrical narrative flows well with the story, which draws you in.  The horrors of slavery and the prints it leaves on the human spirit are explored through recollection and memory.  After you have heard everyone's story, it is hard to judge anyone in the book and to choose heroes and villains.  This is what bondage does.  Can we retain our humanity when everyone and everything in our lives treats us like animals?  Think about Sethe and decide for yourself.	2001-05-03
US	49210446	R6WYH49M1CV0S	0140433880	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A True Epic	This book is an epic for the common people.  It sheds the tradition of typical epic characters but keeps the epic form.  This is a major work, and while I would be hard pressed to find any stylitically inferior passage, I still feel that it is too long.  This is what will drive away many potential readers, and that's a shame.  The book is a realist character study and an ethical treatise.  It's hard for me to think of a superior stylist to Eliot.  The story is a collage of characters, their  ambitions, loves, and disappointments.  It is the story of provincial British life.  I have always had a problem with artificial literary beautification of plain things, but I think Eliot makes a good case for common characters - not merely simple but kind people, but people who might have been great if not for the extraneous factors surrounding their lives and clashing with their aspirations.	2001-04-22
US	49210446	R1TRZFTIP0UV9D	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unmasking Bourgeois Lies	This is a wonderful book.  It gives you a hero you care about, and you can understand.  Babbitt embodies the aspirations of the rising 1920's middle class.  This book is funny and yet so very sad.  It is yet another story of a man who is shaken up and woken from his bland life and hollow illusions.  Like many similar characters, he is too constrained by societal fetters to follow through with his spiritual revolution.  However, he sparks he gets a taste of rebellion.  In a real world, the rebellious protagonists engage our imagination but are brought back down to earth by their want of complete freedom and courage.  That is why we are mere humans.  Lewis reminds us of this.  And yet, you cannot help but admire the ambition towars truth.	2001-04-15
US	49210446	R2OIKVNXETU929	0679741917	687848767	The Immoralist	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An important story of re-birth and emancipation	A rare book that makes the physical form of man an important thematic element.  In the time between nihilistic prophetizing and post-WW dread, Michel (a nerd) experiments with complete freedom after being given a second chance in life.  Stripping off the pretense of European scholarship, he tries to gain health in a life free of artificial restrants.  Striving towards his goal, but never quite giving up the fear coniditoned into him by his station in life, Michel succeeds only in seeing the possibilities of this life.  He is a vanguard for the potentials of freedom.  Where Gide leaves us, with confusion and a new burden, Camus and Sartre pick up.  This is a very well written novel and should be read slowly (the temptation being to breeze through it).	2001-04-01
US	49210446	R1WCE7KVE7EDY	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wondeful, start to finish.	This was one of those books with which I could tell after a half hour that I would love it forever.  It is hard not to sympathize with the characters.  This is a story of humanity constrained by artificial barriers; of love, friendship, spirituality, truth, and the problems they face from hatred, jealousy, deception, and pride.  Forster is clearly a close observer of numan nature and his words resonate with our own lives and thoughts.  The caves made me think as much as anything I have encountered in literature.  This book has all the elements of a captivating novel - plot, imagery, narrative, characters.  Though there may appear to be some thin characters and a reductionist view of good and evil, it is all to an end.  And there is a very strong message - evil there may be, but there are stronger bonds it cannot break.  It is up to us to fight the forces acting to destroy those bonds, forces that are within us.	2001-03-20
US	49210446	R3MY3VZYLKX76A	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Brilliant Novella	Conrad writes with the sort of depth rarely exhibited by an English language writer.  This is one of the most challenging and best written books that I have ever read.  Some of the quotes alone could be collected into a masterpiece.  Attention should be paid to the dream-like narrative of Marlow's tale (if you must know - of a European man traveling into the heart of Africa).  Conrad understood many things about human nature which are buried in the text.  This is not just a colonial novel.  The major accomplishment here is combining smart philosophy with a deft style, something rarely achieved by writers bent on espousing their views.  This is an important book and should not be missed by anyone interested in superb writing and great literature.	2001-03-03
US	49210446	R2NWHOGSABEKVJ	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Title interchangeable with Life and Death	What can I say that hasn't already been said?  If there was a truly objective literary eye, I think this book would make a serious case to be the greatest novel ever written, all things considered (personally, I wouldn't say that it is).  This book can be read as a story, as a bit of history explained from a human perspective, or as a depiction of so many human institutions and facts of life.  It probably comes as close to the realist ideal as a book can do so, yet its omniscient narrator is always both inside the hearts and above the heads of his characters.  His strong voice is never muted out by the voices of his characters, yet their voices are always autonomous.  He tells us a story of a time and stories of people, and he makes them come together into one greater story that never really ends.  Tolstoy shows us how and why the story continues and must continue.  His own analysis of the human interpretation of history is fascinating.  It humbles every individual in the frame of a greater scheme without taking away their own individual significance in the making of history.  Tolstoy rejects simplification and rationalization and argues against the impulse to make gods out of men.  Instead, he focuses on the experiences and conditions shared by all mankind.  Every artifice created by human beings seems to come down to something simpler and more genuine.  Best of all, he manages to do it without preaching any gospels.  Nothing is explained or discovered, but we experience enlightenment.	2001-02-22
US	49210446	R13NUNRUJIEDHB	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Who needs adjectives?	This is a wonderful book. The laconic prose can be refreshing. It captures (I assume) the emptiness and indifference of the &quot;lost generation.&quot;  This is evidenced on a textual level by Hemingway's fondness for short, sober sentences devoid of exuberance.  There are moments of emotion, but they are confused, realizing the characters' impotence to express themselves or even know what they are feeling.  The last lines of this book are chilling.	2000-10-12
US	49210446	R3FRXBM9L5ADE9	0451525698	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio (Signet classics)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A nice piece of sentimental fiction.	Anderson was a master of short fiction and he shows it in this volume, a  series of interwoven stories depicting life in Middle America.  It is a  period piece.  Over-exaggerated characters are colorful on the inside  rather than out and express the isolation they feel effectively.  Of course  most of the characters, at least potentially, are too extraordinary for  their environment, but I suppose that's more exciting than a reverse  exaggeration of Midwest halfwits, which is more likely to be documented.	2000-09-14
US	49210446	R14CWIZNT32DCJ	0878057501	772364383	Savage Holiday: A Novel (Banner Books)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A refreshing work from Wright no one has heard of.	I guess I get to inagurate the review of Savage Holiday.  I saw this book  purely accidentally in a used-books store in Ithaca, NY.  Seeing Wright's  name on it I didn't hesitate to purchase it, since he was and still is, one  of the most influential writers to me. Wright treads on familiar territory  in this book, but with a different setting.  For the first time, Wright  creates white characters in his work.  The attempt of an author to step  inside the skin of any human being is admirable, and the ability to do so  is praiseworthy.  Psychologically it is as powerful as The Outsider or  Native Son.  Here is a man whose desires have gone unfulfilled, who stifles  his insticts until they lead him into trouble. Quintessential existential  dread from Wright.	2000-08-10
US	49210446	R2QX7QCRFYV4J	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Beauty of briefness.	This is one of the better works of existentialist fictions, as Camus illustrates the absurdity and senselessness that we meet in life without shoving overblown philosophical tenets in the reader's face.  With deft  subtlety and conciseness, Camus manages to say so much in 100 pages, and  from a literary standpoint, is much more enjoyable than Sartre's  &quot;Nausea.&quot;  I highly recommend this book.	2000-07-25
US	49210446	R1O3NA2AT1CJS3	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thematic Perfection.	What more can be said about this book?  It weaves story, character development, philosophy, and of course, humanity better than any book I have ever read.  Its questions, thoughts are ubiquitous.  It performs the  chief and only possible function of philosophical fiction: not finding an  answer, but making one think.	2000-07-14
US	49210446	RBXPQ2WFISMJ7	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Maybe the best dystopic novel.	Quite simply, this novel was as perfect as could be in its premise, ideas, themes, and characters.  The succinctness of the narrative style is very much effective.  One of its strenghts was the genuine feeling I had while  reading it that it was written in the time and world of its setting.  this  makes it more than a mere political pamphlet, a la 1984.  A classic and a  must-read.  A prophetic vision of the &quot;last man.&quot;	2000-07-14
US	49210446	R3GMNSV2NYKUH2	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Maybe I should learn French.	Sartre is a very sensible philosopher despite his silly political whims.  Nausea is a fine effort in its rare genre, but of course it's no Notes from the Underground.  The intended effect and narrative structure is  appropriate, but it simply falls short of being a novel.  Sartre unveils  some essential existential truths, but to my dismay it failed to capture my  interest, no matter how much I tried.  It took me over a year to read this  short book.  It dragged on so long that I almost found meaning in life  before it was over.	2000-07-11
US	49210446	R2NT37507LF20Z	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Like Roark's Architecture, not for everyone.	As I read some of the most recent reviews of this book, I was surprised at  the degree of intellectual midgetry and literary obstinacy displayed.  Do  not confuse Rand's stern optimism for some mystical and cynical  &quot;overman&quot; dream.  It is futile to argue this book's philosophy:  you either accept it, or you don't (which dooms it to these negative  criticisms in a big way).  To those naive enough to question the realism of  the characters or Rand's view of people in the book, look up the definition  of romance literature.  To those trying to reduce this work to a pile of  dust with a few short and condescending words, I say (not without a hint of  drama) you are all a bunch of Ellsworth Tooheys.	2000-07-07
