US	49224374	R3BREBJXZCYXGD	0425182908	683788691	Isle of Dogs (Andy Brazil)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	The worst book I've ever finished?	I seriously contemplated giving this book a single star but decided that since I finished it - why I'm not sure! - it must have some redeeming quality. <br /> <br />The official blurb describes this as a comic romp. Well at least I now know what it was supposed to be! I must admit part way through to thinking it must have been written as a comedy but, unfortunately, it seriously fails. This book just isn't funny. Excruciating? Yes! Abysmally written? Yes! Funny? Not a jot. <br /> <br />I cannot comprehend how an author of this caliber could seriously write a book this bad. Does she believe that comedy means you throw out all rules of character, meter, pace and motive? <br /> <br />Probably the worst thing is that this novel could have been great. It had some potentially great elements: Corruption in the Virginia governor's office, modern day pirates, a Chesapeake island who's inhabitants have their own language patterns and a severe distrust of the outside. What a waste.	2005-08-08
US	49224374	R24WKSP6KOT06Z	0446612626	721325086	Reversible Errors	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Could Have Been A Brilliant Court Drama	Many of the reviews comment positively on the large amount of space devoted to the character's lives outside the strict confines of the plot. In my opinion, however, this was the downfall of this, otherwise superb, courtroom novel. At 350 pages this would have been a brilliant page-turner, at 550 pages it dragged a lot.<br />The basic plot is certainly enough to maintain interest through the sidelines, though. The early part of the novel spends part of it's time in 1991 when a policeman who &quot;had the right man&quot; and a very ambitious junior DA (also his lover) 'assisted' a mentally subnormal man (&quot;Squirrel&quot;) into confessing to three murders - a confession that ended up giving him the death penalty. Jump forwards 10 years and we have his appeals lawyer starting to dig into a few murky circumstances that shed serious doubt on the case.<br />Turow does a great job of keeping our interest in the various murder suspects; the original assistant DA is now highly placed to become the next DA and doesn't want this to ruin her chances of election; the policeman anxious to put charges of coercement behind him; the appeals lawyer, finding a new love of the law in the process; the original judge, having fallen on hard times herself, second-guessing her decisions. The machinations of the prosecutors is handled masterfully and, of course, we have the twists and turns expected.<br />Unfortunately, this is interrupted frequently by tedious chapters that add nothing to the plot and, actually, add little to the characters we see. Pages and pages of very similar dialog do nothing. Now, some will argue that I'm just being shallow and buying into the constraints of the genre. Perhaps. I'm certainly not adverse to heavyweight material (see my review of Joyce's Ulyssees) but this isn't particuarly good and it does seriously impede the flow of the book.<br />It seems from other reviewers that this was a departure for Turow. I'll certainly give him another chance but, for me, this book will always be a little soured by all the things in it that shouldn't have been there.	2004-07-06
US	49224374	R18ECR3F6H7M4Z	0672324792	77780088	XQuery Kick Start	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Poorly organized, random topics with little meat	I don't think I've read a computer book as poorly organized as this one. The basic premise seems to be present some random aspects of XQuery or related topics in a chapter and have no flow through the book.<br />There is a lot of good material in the book but try to find it - it's more or less impossible because the index is abysmal. There's no real introduction to how to use XQuery - instead we start off with XSLT. That may be OK (they are related) but it seemed a bit strange to me.<br />Another problem with the book is that some of it is out of date. The XQuery specification is a work in progress but the book was written after (and refers to) the final draft - but a lot of the examples are not compliant with that final draft.<br />The best thing that I can say about this book is that it forced me to research issues more deeply and therefore find out what I needed to know. I wouldn't buy this book - try to borrow it and see if it meets your needs.	2004-06-28
US	49224374	RL278TZOTMOTX	0385510187	818206773	Dating Dead Men	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Intelligent, witty and very deadly!	I was introduced to this book when a review compared it to Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum novels. Like those novels, Dating Dead Men is humorous, has a naive and struggling heroine and has an intelligent mystery. The Plum novels are set in the down-to-earth Trenton, NJ. Ms. Kozak puts her heroine (the unlikely named Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley - \\"Wollie\\") in the ritz and glamor of LA.<br />Well, almost in the ritz and glamor - she's more on the outskirts, struggling as manager of a Welcome! Greetings card store. Alarmed by a phonecall from her brother, a resident at a local mental hospital she hurries to him, only to discover a dead body in the hospital's driveway. She quickly becomes entangled with an unlikely \\"doctor\\" Gomez Gomez and his ferret.<br />Before long Wollie is swept into a mystery involing the mafia, strange Swedes, the three 'C's and much more besides. In the midst of all this she's trying to date 40 guys in little more than 40 days for \\"research\\" and has to impress the unimpressible Mr. Bundt who has the power to upgrade her store to Willkommen status. Needless to say, things become adequately complicated!<br />Harley's biggest strength is in her colorful characters (sometimes a little too colorful - nobody would really have a name like Wollie!). They ooze life onto every page with a rich coating of LA character on top. Many people make an appearance in this book. At some points it becomes difficult to keep track of all the relationships between the mafiosi. This isn't a fault with the writing - our heroine is having trouble herself and often provides some useful summaries.<br />Harley says in her afterword that this book took a long time to get written. Let's hope the next one doesn't take as long but is just as good. This is highly recommended.	2004-02-17
US	49224374	REOYIR2DKIN5X	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For anyone who likes historical and/or scientific novels	Let's get the size issue out of the way. Yes it's big but I don't think it rambles too much. There is a lot to this story and a lengthy telling only enhances it. The writing is uniformly excellent and so the pages go by fast.<br />And so down to business. Quicksilver focusses on two main characters. The first Daniel Waterhouse is an educated son of a radical, friend of Isaac Newton, Robert Hooke, Samuel Pepys, King Charles II and many more historical figures. We meet Daniel in America in the early 18th century and get his life story in flashback through the first book.<br />The other major character is Eliza, an ex-slave from a Turkish Harem who manages to become a formidable business woman and a fake countess. The second story focusses on her rescue by the \\"King of the Vagabonds\\" Jack Shaftoe and their travels through Europe.<br />During these first two books, the storylines are independent although some characters crop up in both tales. Book 3 brings these threads together and weaves a more elaborate tale of deception and intrigue.<br />The story is long and sprawling and only a read of the book will do it justice. Suffice to say that the tales combine historical fact skillfully woven with a set of, sometimes romantic, tales. I think anyone who has an interest in history will get a kick out of this book. Additionally, science plays a key role here. Daniel is a member of the Royal Society, we get snippets of the development of calculus by Newton and Leibniz and other major scientific developments. Again, anyone interested in this will get a lot out of this book.<br />If I have one criticism of this book it's that the first two tales would have been better told in parallel like the third. Without this there was little suspense though, as I said before, the book moves forward quickly.<br />The acid test is whether I would read the second two \\"chapters\\" in the cycle. The answer is definitely!	2004-01-21
US	49224374	RYXU2Z0AYFX5L	0415138582	857413702	The New Bloomsday Book: A Guide Through Ulysses (Routledge International Studies in)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An Essential Map for a Great Literary Journey	Would you travel to an unknown land without a guide? In James Joyce's seminal work, Ulysses, we find ourselves adrift in some very strange lands. Linguistic, cultural and literary references abound - along with a good helping of pure weirdness. Blamire's book helps us get through this jungle - and still have a good time doing so!<br />The New Bloomsday Book follows Ulysses chapter by chapter (note that Ulysses doesn't actually have chapter headings so just this information by itself would be wonderful). At the beginning of each chapter Blamires relates the forthcoming pages to the equivalent works from Homer. Then we have the pertinent points mentioned, with discussion about important issues as they arise. Cross-references to other important parts of the text are given which is particularly useful when, as often happens, Joyce mentions something in passing that takes on greater signficance a hundred pages further on.<br />The level of detail is about right. We don't get commentary on every single allusion or phrase but we do get the highlights - enough for us to keep our footing on this journey and get pleasure out of the trip. If I tackle Ulysses again - and it will be a while! - I may want a more detailed reference such as Gilberts, but for a first read, The New Bloomsday book is the essential choice.<br />The book has page references to the Gabler edition, the Penguin edition and occasional references to the Oxford edition. I read this with the Penguin edition and didn't notice any discrepencies.	2003-12-31
US	49224374	R3E1B4IOIUPJB7	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Incredible Literary Journey	June 16th, 1904 in Dublin - a city under British rule and starting to try and shrug off the weight of the colonial oppression. On this day Joyce sets his &quot;heroes&quot; (heroes that only Joyce could create), Leopold Bloom (Ulysses) and Stephen Dedalus (Telemachus), on their own odysseys through Dublin's streets. Along the way we get a catalog of minor disappointments and victories, major literary experiments and a reading experience to truly last a lifeline.<br />Stephen Dedalus, the hero from Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man, is the young student, the educated, literary and artistic individual somewhat based on Joyce himself. Leopold Bloom is the older, cynical 20th century everyman, in search of a son (where Stephen is, to some extents, missing a father). They make their individual journeys around Dublin that day, finally coming together in a chance meeting and then becoming friends. <br />If you are after a riveting story, you won't find it here - the previous paragraph somes it up! What we get is to walk in these (and other people's) shoes for a day. We experience their small successes - an idle flirtation perhaps; we are with them as they realize some minor disappointment. Joyce termed these experiences ephiphanies and, to some extent, that's what Ulysses is - many, many iter-related and multi-layered ephiphanies.<br />We also feel part of Dublin the city and Ireland the country. It's difficult looking back now after 80 years of home rule, with its successes and failures, what it must have looked like then unsure of what the future would bring. Joyce gives us a divided picture - we see the &quot;citizen&quot;, the nationalistic and stubborn individual who desires freedom at any cost; we see those who are staunchly royalist and who support (flirt with in the case of some of the women) the British soldiers. Joyce's picture is no one-dimensioned protestant-Catholic division either. This element of the book has great interest in it's own right.<br />Ulysseshas parallels from Homer's &quot;The Odyssey&quot;. The correspondence from chapter to chapter is highly selective. Some chapters use purely literary techniques to make a parallel (in particular &quot;The Sirens&quot;) where others have more pointed comparisons. You do not need to be familiar with The Odyssey to get something out of this book. Familiarity with Joyce's earlier works - Dubliners and Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man - is very useful, as is an understanding of Shakespeare's Hamlet. References to all of these abound.<br />What you will probably also need is a guide. I used Harry Blamires's &quot;The New Bloomsday Book&quot; and I would seriously recommend using it or something similar on a first reading. Joyce's writing in this book is wonderful but it can be very very difficult. Having someone hold your hand on the journey helps you get much more out of it.<br />The style of writing changes throughout the book; Joyce was experimenting with literary techniques to help tell the tale and give us insight into his character. Some of these are very successful - some are rather inpenetrable. In particular the &quot;Oxen of the Sun&quot; chapter is very hard-going in parts!<br />However, unlike some other literary works, Ulysses is always fun. You might find you get the most out of some of it if you read it aloud (or imagine yourself doing so) because much of the work is highly poetical. For the final chapter - the only one told from a female perspective - the heavy stream of consciousness deserves to be read in a gallop, letting the words flow over you.<br />Joyce wrote this seminal work over a period of seven years and, at times, it felt it would take me that long to finish it. It's certainly not something to embark upon if you won't be able to devote considerable time to it. With so many great books to be read, you may wonder why you should devote this amount of time and energy on a single book. In this case the answer is because it is a unique, wonderful and life-enhancing experience.	2003-12-31
US	49224374	RKRSQUYE3036P	0446364193	597792275	Along Came A Spider	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Keeps you guessing all the way	I think that all fans of detective novels - particularly those of a psychological nature - will get a big kick out of these eight legs! James Patterson brilliantly keeps up the tension throughout the novel. As with great stories like this the villain seems unlikely at first but all the clues are there and it all fits!<br />Detective Alex Cross, a hardbitten black cop / psychology major from DC, is investigating a series of gruesome deaths in the ghettos of Washington when he and his partner get dragged off on a case involving the kidnapping from an exclusive private school of two children. One is the son of the secretary of the treasury; the other, Maggie Rose, is the daughter of a famous movie star. Initially Dr. Cross is annoyed at all the attention being focussed on the privileged but he finds himself getting dragged into the case.<br />It appears that a Gary Soneji, a teacher at the school who was so well liked he was named Mr. Chips, kidnapped the children out of the blue. As the plot thickens, leads seem to connect to the ghetto killings, one of the children turns up dead, a ransom is paid and lost and the kidnapper proves elusive. Alex Cross, vilified for his role in the handing over of the ransom, finds solice in the figure of Jezzie Flanagan - the prime secret service minder of the two children. The relationship, crossing racial boundaries, adds more tension.<br />The figure of Gary Soneji, the alter-ego of a Gary Murphy, is a brilliant creation up there with the likes of Hannibal Lecter. At least you know where you are with Mr. Lecter - Murphy/Soneji keep you guessing all the way - scary!<br />James Patterson brilliantly handles all of the threads, not letting any of them unravel and adding twist after clue after hint. The final unveiling of the villain is wonderful - suprising, but the clues are all there to find.	2003-12-02
US	49224374	R1PZGUUN3V7UP5	0374528373	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Brilliant but hard work!	Let me start by saying, this is not an easy read. The first half of this very lengthy novel is pretty slow moving in places. The pace does pick up after this point so stick with it because this novel is masterly.<br />As with Dostoyevsky's other brilliant novel, &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot;, &quot;The Brothers Karamazov&quot; is an incisive journey into the psychology of crime. But this is by no means the totality of the work. The span of this novel is immense covering topics as different as the fragility and security of the family, organized religion, the Russian class system, Russia's place in the world in the 19th century and just about anything else you could think of!<br />The novel primarily focusses on three brothers - Dmitri, Ivan and Alexei Karamazov, the sons of a lethario and self-proclaimed &quot;buffoon&quot;, Fyodor. All three have been abandoned by their father at an early age but, for various reasons, all come together for a short period of time. Alexei, the youngest and least like his father, has found religion and joined a monastery. This provides a pivotal focus for much of the first half of the novel which, to some extents, is a doctrine about organized religion Russian style. This, I will admit, got a little tiring; the ideas may well have had relevance when Dostoyevsky was writing but seem to have lost their allure right now.<br />In particular we see the relationship between Alexei and the &quot;Elder&quot; Zosima who's homilies run for a full 50 pages worth of the novel. This side of the novel also has little influence on the main plot and, in my humble opinion, could be completely cut without detriment.<br />The focus on the relationship between the brothers and their father is, however, brilliant. Dmitri and his father end up falling in love with the same woman - Grushenka - a woman of rather dubious reputation. Dmitri, meanwhile, is also in love with a more upper class woman, Katerina who is also in a relationship with Ivan.<br />Thisdouble love triangle not only provides wonderful material for the insights into love, lust and jealousy, it also provides the background for the key event of the novel - the murder of Fyodor. The suspicion immediately falls on the eldest son, Dmitri, and much of the novel focusses on this and a subsequent trial.<br />This part of the novel which, is much the greatest, can be recommended without reservation. Yes it is a long, very long book but the range and depth of ideas, feelings and thoughts are quite remarkable. Set a couple of weeks aside and read this book.	2003-12-01
US	49224374	R33KQS8795NX2I	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An elegant discussion about freedom and society	This book is not intended to be a vision of the future, though that is it's fictional setting. Instead it is a story about freedom, or lack of it, about society and our role in it and about conflict between different belief systems. In that regard Huxley does a remarkable job - he uses an interesting story and landscape to provide insight into the human condition in the 20th century and beyond.<br />It is set in a fictional world where people measure time since Ford (as in the motor company's founder) - 360 AF. Ford has become a deity, the founder of modern society through his ideas about manufacturing. Of course the society presented has little or no bearing on Ford's ideas but then hypocrisy looms high in this world. The society is highly structured, it has a caste system dividing people into groups from the Alphas (the thinkers, more individual, highly revered) to the Epsilons (conditioned for no more than menial labor having deliberately stunted development).<br />The conditioning of society is key. Babies are bred, not born. Conditioning starts in the testtube and continues through sleep hypnosis and role play through life. Huxley takes the idea of conditioning too far, in my opinion - I think our genes provide too powerful counterweights to this conditioning but it's easy to accept the idea. Society is controlled by a readily available mood enhancing drug called Soma, by the uniformity of it's people (a process has been developed to cause the development of many many identical children from a single fertilized egg), by mindless pornographic entertainment and freely available sex and by the conditioning allowed.<br />It's here that we find the most interesting parallels - are we using mood enhancing drugs too much? Is entertainment just a pap to the masses? We certainly feel a sense of discomfort from the extreme forms presented in the \\"Feelies\\" but are we really that distant?<br />Set against this are characters who rebel, who feel they are repressed, who feel the need to be alone, who want to pair with a single other person instead of being promiscuous, who feel individual ford-dammit! In the extreme this is represented by \\"The Savage\\" - a boy born of a mother who came from the world Huxley portrays but is accidentally left in a reservation where the backwards old-world (e.g. our world) ideas persist. The savage does not fit in in either world - rejected by the other members of the tribe for being the wrong color and for the promiscuity of his mother, found to be too weird in the conditioned \\"modern\\" world where his ideas are too weird.<br />It can easily be argued that Huxley has created too extreme characters - particularly in the savage who is into self-mutilation and extreme sacrafice. However, it is by the use of these characters that some of the subtleties come out and so long as we see them as simple foils I don't think we need to get too caught up in them.<br />It's too easy to view this book as some kind of vision of the future and laugh. In one very early episode they are showing new employees around the bottling plant (the bottling of fetuses of course!). There is all this technology to manufacturer babies according to precise specifications and then the proud guide indicates the massive *card* index needed to record it all! However, as I started, this isn't a vision of the future, it's a fictional world which acts as a bedrock for the presentation of ideas and it's the ideas which are the beauty of the book.the need to be alone, who want to pair with a single other person instead of being promiscuous, who feel individual ford-dammit! In the extreme this is represented by \\"The Savage\\" - a boy born of a mother who came from the world Huxley portrays but is accidentally left in a reservation where the backwards old-world (e.g. our world) ideas persist. The savage does not fit in in either world - rejected by the other members of the tribe for being the wrong color and for the promiscuity of his mother, found to be too weird in the conditioned \\"modern\\" world where his ideas are too weird.<br />It can easily be argued that Huxley has created too extreme characters - particularly in the savage who is into self-mutilation and extreme sacrafice. However, it is by the use of these characters that some of the subtleties come out and so long as we see them as simple foils I don't think we need to get too caught up in them.<br />It's too easy to view this book as some kind of vision of the future and laugh. In one very early episode they are showing new employees around the bottling plant (the bottling of fetuses of course!). There is all this technology to manufacturer babies according to precise specifications and then the proud guide indicates the massive *card* index needed to record it all! However, as I started, this isn't a vision of the future, it's a fictional world which acts as a bedrock for the presentation of ideas and it's the ideas which are the beauty of the book.	2003-11-07
US	49224374	R25LJUGZMGAK92	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	5	0	0	N	N	His best work	I have read a number of Michael Connelly's novels. This, I feel, is his best work. The ex-FBI agent Terry McCaleb has just been given a new lease of life with a heart transplant only to be persuaded to take on a case that has the police baffled. McCaleb quickly breaks the case open but, as he does, it gets weirder and weirder. An apparent random killing seems anything but.<br />Graciela River's sister is the victim who manages to persuade McCaleb to take on the case. McCaleb is reluctant at first until Graciela pulls her trump card. Her sister's death is what gave Terry his new life - he has her heart. Using old contacts in the LAPD he manages to get enough information on the case to get it moving where once it lay dormant. One of the subplots in this book is the rankling between the agents on the case and Connelly - particularly as clues seem to point to McCaleb as the killer! This sort of tension can be overused in detective stories but Connelly does a great job of balancing the different aspects of ego, honor and getting the job done.<br />The premise of the book (which I can't reveal without giving the whole plot away!) is truly original. Like many great detective stories the clues are there if you can spot them.<br />Connelly's greatest achievement in this book is to keep the plot rolling and building. Just as you think it has reached a quiet point, something dramatic - but never that unexpected - happens to bring us back to the chase. It's one of those books that you constantly find yourself saying, &quot;Ah, of course!&quot; and is very enjoyable as a result. If you haven't read any of Connelly's novels before, this is a great opener; if you have read them - what are you waiting for?	2003-11-06
US	49224374	R1TPP9BXREKNPS	0671023616	602429584	Postmortem (Kay Scarpetta Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great forensics, great mystery, great tension	This is the book that introduces us to Kay Scarpetta, Virginia's first chief medical examiner. She is a tough cookie, a woman in a \\"man's world\\" and somebody who doesn't take no for an answer.<br />The novel gets right into the action as Kay is awakened at night with a phone call from detective Moreno. It looks like a serial killer has struck again and Moreno immediately suspects the latest victim's boyfriend. Kay, meanwhile, is desperately looking at this from the forensic angle - what are the links, what is the mysterious glitter that's showing up, what motivates this killer.<br />Lurking in the background are the good old boys, desperate for results and desperate to pin the blame for any failures on someone. A female chief medical examiner might take the fall perhaps? Kay certainly finds that her ship is in danger of sinking - a misplaced file and her database hacked into are some of the problems showing up. Meanwhile she's not having the visit she hoped for from her niece who's bored and fed up of being ignored by her aunt, busy solving the mystery. She's a bit of a computer expert - could she have hacked in as revenge?<br />Kay has a love interest too - in fact, one of the good old boys. But is he really on her side? Cornwell handles all of the various threads going on very well. As usual with this genre you can argue about whether the infighting is really that brutal, whether the sexism is really that ingrained. To me it doesn't matter, it doesn't dominate but it does provide additional tensions that help rather than hinder.<br />Fans of Kathy Reichs may get a sense of deja vu. Cornwell was first, though, and at least in this book handles some of the issues better. Although both characters rather overstep the boundaries of their jobs, Kay does so less than Tempe Brennan, the heroine of Reichs' novels. If you are a fan of Reichs, I think you will enjoy Postmortem immensely. And even if you're not, you will still get plenty of pleasure from this novel!	2003-11-06
US	49224374	R1EMS01F35FRVD	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A True Classic	Atticus Finch, Boo Radley, Maycomb - names that resonate even before reading the book. I can't believe that it's taken me so long to get around to reading this - it truly is a classic that deserves to be read, that's enjoyable and is still an easy read.<br />&quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot; takes place in the deep South during the depression. Told from the viewpoint of Scout Finch, a young tomboy growing up in Maycomb, Alabama, we get an account of her early life full of strange characters such as the enigmatic Boo Radley, woven with a classic courtroom drama equal to any that Grisham or Turow have produced.<br />Harper Lee has breathed such life and vitality into every character in this tale. Jem and Scout, the son and daughter of Atticus Finch a local lawyer and state senator, represent the liberal town viewpoint, the growing awareness of racial inequality and the touchpoint for the tensions of country versus town that appear even within the school. Aunt Alexandra gives us an insight into the southern hostess, gentile yet savage, forward thinking when it comes to Africa highlighting the racial inequalities they take for granted in their own town.<br />This book was written at the beginning of the highly charged atmosphere of the late 50s, early 60s. Racial inequality was being challenged in the courts, in the schools and on the streets. The combination of this intensity combined with the drama set in 1930s makes this one of the true classics of American life in the South. It is an interesting read whatever your background and I highly recommend reading it sooner rather than later!	2003-11-06
US	49224374	R2PJYGE1VM3D2W	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Superbly Told Tale	&quot;Life of Pi&quot; tells the improbable tale of a young man's battle against nature and himself. It is one of those rare accounts that is so fresh yet appears to be a tale older than the hills. A modern myth which could have been written at almost any time.<br />The book has essentially three parts: The first part tells us of the early life of the improbably named Piscine Patel, a son of a zookeeper living in India. Endlessly taunted about his name he re-invents himself as Pi - the irrational number, 3.1415927....<BR>An irrational name for an irrational story, perhaps?<br />Pi discovers God. In a Catholic church. In a Hindu Temple. In a Muslim Mosque. In one of the most memorable and funny passages from the early part of the book his three mentors - a priest, an imam and a braham - accidentally meet and are incredulous about Pi's religion-swapping ways.<br />The author would like us to believe that this is a spiritual tale, that we'll find God in it. I'm not very spiritual and I didn't but each to his or her own. It's certainly true that the second part of the tale, the meat of the story, which deals with a shipwreck as the Patels move from India to Canada, seems to have divine intervention. For me, though, I find it inside of Pi, not outside.<br />This second part is a beautiful, gripping, warming and chilling story about Pi's improbable survival in a lifeboat who's only other occupents are deadly animals. Little by little Pi has to battle the elements, himself and the other animals to survive. He has to become the alpha male. Slowly the story seems to get stranger and stranger, more improbable yet suprisingly deeply rooted in some sort of strange reality!<br />The last part of the book, a description of his recovery in a Mexican hospital and interview with representatives of the shipping company, provides a second version of the story. And we wonder - was this fiction within fiction. Did the tale really happen the way Pi said it did? The improbabilities burstfrom the page and we ponder his name. On and on we think about the tale. Wonderful, irrational Pi. 3.1415927 ...	2003-10-14
US	49224374	RESH3O4TPQTEL	0451210867	511631376	The Waste Lands: The Dark Tower, No. 3	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Drawing Continues and the Pace Quickens	At the end of &quot;The Drawing of the Three&quot; we had left our three heroes - Roland (the last Gunslinger), Eddie (the addict) and Susannah (a composite of the previous split personalities of Odetta and Detta) - at the start of their quest to find the Dark Tower and unlock it's secrets.<br />At the beginning of &quot;The Waste Lands&quot; they have moved on a little - slowly Eddie and Susannah are becoming Gunslingers themselves. But they are no closer to finding the dark tower until they disturb a huge bear who, of course, is more than he appears. Meanwhile Roland is steadily getting worse as strange voices enter his head - just like Susannah's split personalities before.<br />With this opening, &quot;The Waste Lands&quot; picks up a hectic pace and never lets go. The writing style of the first three books has changed a lot - each book has it's pros and cons - but this one is much more focussed on movement, on plot. Character development is still very much there and, of course, we get dribbles of information about the quest.<br />Once again the links between the Gunslinger's world and our own are very much evident. The first half of this book deal with the drawing of Jake - the boy we last saw falling to his (second) death in the first book. If you were anything like me, you read &quot;The Drawing of the Three&quot; and felt uncomfortable about the paradoxes that Roland might have opened up by killing Mort. And you would be right to be - those strange voices that Roland is hearing are caused by them. And in our world they are having a devastating effect on Jake's life too. This part of the tale was one of the most engaging stories in the series so far.<br />And King's imagination shows no sign of quitting. In an extraordinary parallel, our heroes go on a search for Blaine the Train - a character, it appears, who exists in a forgotten children's book about Charlie the Engine. It really isn't possible to describe the imaginative leaps that King comes up with here- you will have to read it. <br />The second half of the book concerns this mini-quest and a breathless chase through a parallel New York - a city inhabited by strange factions - the Greys and the Pubes. As we hurtle through the book suddenly the dreadful truth hits us - it's finished with an enormous cliffhanger! Argh, if I had read that when this book was first published I would be in agony waiting for the resolution. Luckily, &quot;Wizard and Glass&quot; can be enjoyed right now.<br />If you have read the previous Dark Tower books, this one is unmissable. If you haven't read them yet, do so and then read this!	2003-10-10
US	49224374	R12YNWA8N84KP9	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Gripping, Thought-Provoking and Highly Entertaining	Like many people I missed this when it was first published and read it after enjoying &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;. Obviously when writing that later book, Dan Brown didn't want to waste a good formula because there are a number of similarities between the two books. Both of them involve puzzles, clues, riddles; both have a mysterious figure lurking in the background; both of them have love interests for our hero, Robert Langdon, who have just suffered the loss of a father-figure.<br />However, while some of the framework is the same for the books, that didn't take away any of the interest. &quot;Angels and Demons&quot; is really a more spiritually challenging book than &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; which was a more intellectual puzzle. It focuses on the battle between religion and science - specifically the Vatican versus CERN - for the hearts and minds of the people.<br />It's always difficult to review these kinds of books without giving away the plot since that is the major attraction here! However, I think it's fairly safe to give an outline (stop here if you don't want to know anything!): A scientist who has been working on anti-matter at CERN has been killed and branded with a mysterious mark implicating a group who were thought to have died out years ago. Robert Langdon, famed for his work on religious symbology, is brought in to help and quickly finds himself in Rome on the track of this ancient group.<br />Meanwhile the Pope has died and the cardinals have gathered to elect a new one. Strangely the favorite four candidates have gone missing and a warning about a bomb planted in the vatican is creating problems for the Swiss Guards. Obviously it's up to our hero to get to the bottom of all of this and try to prevent the destruction.<br />Dan Brown manages to throw red herrings, gotchas and clues up in the air like nobody else. Just when you think you have it solved there's another twist which, though sudden, is totally expected once you've seen it. Magical! This is a great thriller for anyone interested in mysteries of any kind.	2003-10-10
US	49224374	R6ZBH9J4MSX7R	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Layman's to Science - Past and Present	As an engineer I've always been fascinated with science and turned off by bad science writing. Having a great writer like Bill Bryson write a history of scientific thought and discovery is just pure joy. Don't get me wrong - there are wonderful scientific writers out there but what Bill manages to do is bring a great number of different specialities under one roof and write about them consistently, interestingly and with great warmth.<br />The book is really a short history of scientific discovery since the time of Newton. Bryson moves us seemlessly from topic to topic, always finding some interconnection - reminiscent in some respects of the classic James Burke TV show, &quot;Connections&quot;. Bill is interested not only in the science but in the people who discovered it. And some of these people are not household names, they have been overlooked; their ideas stolen or unrecognized. Often an amazing degree of stupidity is involved on the part of the discoverer - publishing in provincial magazines that have nothing to do with the subject!<br />There was one quote in the book that I found particularly appropro in this regard. I can't remember it exactly but it's something like, &quot;First a scientific discovery is discredited; then it's significance is discredited; then the wrong person is credited&quot;.<br />For me this was one of the best aspects of the book. Pretty much every scientific discovery was one I already knew about but the history of the scientists was refreshing. For instance, I knew about leaded gas and CFCs (of course, who doesn't) but I never knew that the same guy was responsible for both! It was reading about people like that which made this book so enjoyable; your view might vary: Some of the negative reviews feel the book was spoilt by this.<br />This isn't always a comfortable book to read. For instance, the discussion about a massive volcano that sits hidden under Yellowstone National Park and is &quot;past it's due date&quot; and the discussion about being overdue for an asteroid attack gave me uncomfortable nights. To some extent we live in a bad age - we have discovered these things that could destroy us but we haven't yet figured out how to prevent them!<br />Whether you are already familiar with scientific thought and history or not I think you'll find this to be a wonderful book.	2003-10-03
US	49224374	R3NG3USNU5G8E1	0060234881	440200388	The Horse and His Boy	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A wonderful story, but not the best of the series	\\"The Horse and His Boy\\" is set in the time of Narnia when our heroes from \\"The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe\\" are ruling Narnia. However, they are somewhat peripheral characters though, of course, Aslan is an ever-present force flowing through the world. This tale is set purely in the imaginary world - we have no journey from our world, no references back to it ... except that the lands we travel in are remarkably familiar.<br />The tale follows Shasta, a young boy living in the land of Calormene who overhears his \\"father\\" selling him into slavery and decides to run away. He discovers a talking horse Bree and escapes, only to run into some lions who force him together with a young girl, Aravis, who is also escaping - from an arranged marriage on another talking horse, Hwin. In classic CS Lewis moralizing, Aravis is the proud one who needs to be brought down a peg or two while Shasta is the down-trodden servant who seems destined for greater things.<br />The beginning of this book felt pretty slow to me. I also felt that the world Lewis was drawing upon for Calormene was too close to India / Persia for the rather obvious 'this is a worse place than Narnia which has Aslan a.k.a Christ'. Slavery, forced marriages, etc. all existed at one point around the world but the obvious parallels make it a little hard to stomach in today's world.<br />After a while, though, the story drags us in and such feelings disappear. Shavis is taken by a party from Narnia who mistake him for their missing prince (we obviously know what to expect as a resolution there!) while Aravis overhears a terrible plot by the Calormene's to invade Narnia and a neighboring country in revenge for a snub by Queen Susan on one of the princes (by not marrying him).<br />They escape and attempt to stave off the attack, finding a mysterious hermit along the way to help and, once again, being attacked by a lion.<br />It goes without saying that everything is resolved beautifully; those who need to be put in their place are, those who should be rewarded are and the world of Narnia lives for another wonderful tale. If you are going to read all of the Narnia chronicles (and if not, why not?!) then this one is well worth while. But if you only read a few of them, there are better ones out there.	2003-09-29
US	49224374	R1X3Y6SXDGEYYP	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Unique, Gripping and Educational Trip into a Tortured Mind	Although it's not mentioned in the book our narrator and hero, Christopher Boone, has ausperger's syndrome - a form of autism. Remarkably Mark Haddon never did any real research into this condition; instead he took experiences of other kids he had worked with, and some of our more extreme personality traits, and used them to create a marvellous, whole, emotionally challenging boy. His starkness and simplicity strangely give the writing a warmth that could so easily be missing.<br />This book is Christopher's account of his investigations into the mysterious and brutal death of his neighbor's dog. One of Christopher's favorite characters is Sherlock Holmes and he attempts to use his instincts to guide him - facing terrible fears such as talking to strangers along the way.<br />Christopher's world is both simple and highly complex. He is a savant - extremely gifted numerically; he enjoys telling us of his math puzzles and other such ideas. Somehow Mark Haddon manages to introduce all of this without boring or alienating us. He employs Christopher's care-worker at school, Siobhan (for Americans like my wife who don't know how to pronounce that, it's kind of like shove-aun) as a pseudo-editor. 'Siobhan told me that would be boring and to put it in an appendix' kind of idea. Every now and then he says something that surprises us and then we learn that Siobhan told him to put it in. This is an extremely interesting a powerful device to employ - luckily Haddon uses it sparingly though.<br />In Christopher's world there are some things he can never do. He cannot tell lies. He will not break promises. However, the total logic can sometimes give him an out. He knows about &quot;white lies&quot; which he terms not telling the full truth - e.g. when his dad tells him what he did he knows to tell him about math problems, not about his detecting. When his dad makes him promise to give up investigating the case he stores this as five distinct promises and when something comes up that we would immediately say is connected, he rationalizes as not one of those five things.<br />At times during the book we feel an incredible empathy with Christopher. There are a number of these but I will relate one particularly poignant episode where he sits on a tube platform in total shock as swarms of people fill the platform, wait for a train, get on it and the cycle repeats. He cannot move, he cannot think, he just sits and sits until the cycle dies down as nighttime falls and he can finally summon the courage to move.<br />Christopher &quot;solves&quot; the case, unexpectedly and also finds out that his Dad has been hiding important things from him. The book, rather like the famous film about autism &quot;Rainman&quot;, comes a little full-circle at the end - Christopher has moved on, emotionally, but what sort of life will he end up leaving. We've moved on, too, and have experienced a wonderful, thought-provoking journey - one that will stay with me for a long time.	2003-09-29
US	49224374	R1OFVO93LG0KED	0452284708	511631376	Drawing of the Three, The (Revised Edition): The Dark Tower II	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Dark Tower Edges Closer	In &quot;The Gunslinger&quot; we were introduced to Roland and his search for The Dark Tower where, he believed, he would find the answers to why his world had moved on. The Gunslinger's landscape was stark and so were the words. In &quot;The Drawing of the Three&quot; we spend much of the novel back in &quot;our world&quot; (at least we spend it in 20th century New York) and the bleakness of the words is gone - replaced with a much warmer, easier to read, tone. Yet behind this we get the feeling of the bleakness of modern life too in the three (four?!) characters we see Roland tracking down.<br />To some extent &quot;The Gunslinger&quot; is really a prologue and &quot;The Drawing of the Three&quot; is where the epic adventure really begins. Like all good quests our hero must first get his faithful warriors together and, at the end of &quot;The Gunslinger&quot;, some cryptic clues have been revealed for the three in the shape of Tarot cards. As Roland slogs through the bleak landscape, he becomes almost fatally wounded by the local beachlife - huge Lobstrosities that become his (and his new friends') main source of fear and of food.<br />Just as Roland has almost given up, he spies the glimmer of what turns out to be the first of three doors into our world. Where he emerges is into the body of someone specific - someone who must be brought back to help ... though, without giving any spoilers away, that view becomes murky with the third.<br />Needless to say Roland is not plunged into the bodies of ready-made heroes. Instead we find Eddie, the adict - making his first drug run into the US; we find Odetta and Detta, two woman sharing, or perhaps co-habiting, the same body after suffering terrible abuses; we find Jack Mort (e.g. death), a pyschopath who finds pleasure in the anonymous killing of others. Of course we find links between all of these characters - not only connections but traits of abuse, of addiction and of crushing loneliness.<br />King does a masterfuljob of setting these characters in a 20th century fictional world - references to both his works and to others such as The Terminator abound. These constant anchors to a fictional world provide this wonderfully grounded yet still free experience as we read the stories.<br />Within the book, we really see the three tales of Roland inhabiting (and sometimes coming through himself) these characters in our world, with the backdrop of his illness back in his world and the interaction between the characters he has already brought through. These tales really are marvellous mini-stories in their own right. King keeps the tension high - particuarly with the first and the third as we really aren't sure how he is going to get back to his world in one piece. The second tale is almost a battle of inner conflict as he fights the twisted but very strong persona of Detta Walker who is living in the body of the lovely but rather weak character of Odetta Holmes - a conflict that doesn't get resolved until the end.<br />And by the end of the book the three have been drawn and set off on their quest for The Dark Tower. It's a fractured friendship at best with Eddie particularly concerned that Roland's total desire for The Dark Tower will end in his sacrifice. And we too wonder whether Roland can hold it together on his journey.<br />This is superb storytelling, wonderful writing and a classic tale that I can see being read and re-read. Read &quot;The Gunslinger&quot; first but realize it's just a prologue and a little different from the bulk of the series which really starts with this book.	2003-09-29
US	49224374	R1UJ5DQ9Q027WH	0142437344	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Brilliant in Places, Absolutely Tedious in Others	&quot;A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man&quot; is many things. Perhaps most importantly it is a bridge work - it spans the divide between more accessible (but brilliant) work found in his collection of short stories, &quot;Dubliners&quot; and the less accessible (and that's a clear understatement for Finnegan's Wake!) but superlative work of his later years. To some extent, then, we expect some patchiness as Joyce is finding his feet here.<br />Another aspect to the novel is that it is largely autobiographical covering Joyce's time at two Jesuit colleges and Dublin University. Much of the factual substance has been removed - it's an autobiography focussing on state of mind, brief glimpses into his world as his father's fortunes diminish. His heavily Catholic upbringing - high on guilt and corporal punishment - laying the seeds for an eventual rejection of faith altogether. His extreme emotions concerning a girl that he just meets briefly a few times.<br />The book is also a sounding board for Joyce's philosophical views on beauty and aesthetics. Long &quot;conversations&quot; fill the pages with discussions on Aristotle, etc. and witty literary jokes. Most of this is, to put it politely, utter tedium I'm afraid. Pretension at it's worst. There are writers who can introduce such philosophical rants in their works and bring it off (Dostoyevsky for instance) but here Joyce fails to keep any semblence of pacing, or even beauty, in the words.<br />Another example of this excess can be found in the description of a retreat that he goes to towards the end of his years in Jesuit school. Now this retreat is a pivotal moment in the book and gives rise to the most beautiful writing - a stunning description of the cathartic nature of Catholic confession - so it is worthy that it is treated in some detail. Unfortunately, what we get is pages and pages of two entire sermons on the physical and emotional nature of hell. Accurately distilled this could be moving, riveting andthought-provoking. As it is it's mind-numbing.<br />Yet the book is still very beautiful. It deserves to be read and it deserves to be read slowly. Joyce, at his best, is one of the most lyrical, poetic authors ever to have molded the written language. So, read it - but be prepared to have to force yourself through a couple of sections.	2003-09-25
US	49224374	R3RGBISD0FLMNB	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Clancy's Back on Form - But he Still Needs Editing!	After the disappointment of \\"Red Rabbit\\" it's good to see Clancy back on form in \\"The Teeth of the Tiger\\". Gone are the miserable ramblings we saw in that book; back is the tight plot and gripping storytelling. Unfortunately Clancy is in need of a proper editor who will correct some of the repetitions that creep in from time to time.<br />Anyway, back to the story. \\"The Teeth of the Tiger\\" puts us firmly into the new millenium. A covert extra-government organization was set up by Jack Ryan when he was vacating the presidency. The organization's mandate is to use non-conventional means to defeat terrorism (e.g. perform assasinations). They get their information by intercepting internal transmissions betweeen the CIA and NSA - using this to both track terrorists that perhaps the other agencies miss and to fund their organization via insider trading.<br />Obviously this is a little far-fetched but it's still an interesting premise. Meanwhile Jack Ryan jr. stumbles across their organization and checks them out - getting taken on board in the process. Coincidently two of his cousins, a marine and an FBI agent are also recruited to be the first assassins. It's these coincidences that spoil the book because it could have been written so that there was a better reason they all happened to be recruited.<br />As the cousins are being trained, a small terrorist operation is in progress and succeeds. Here is Clancy at his most chilling and, hopefully, not his most prescient: Without spoiling the plot, let's say the target is middle America. The biggest coincidence - which nearly ruined the story for me - happens here where we find our heroes in very close proximity to the terrorists on a training run.<br />The story then moves overseas as the mission proceeds - one by one the bankers and couriers of the terrorist cell are identified and killed. This time, unlike with \\"Red Rabbit\\", Clancy manages to keep a degree of tension.<br />The book ends almost in mid-air. Obviously the scene is set for a sequel. Knowing the way Clancy is going I wouldn't be surprised if this isn't the opener for a franchise like the Net Force novels.<br />All in all this was enjoyable - the writing was fairly tight, the characters interesting and the only things that spoilt it were some minor repetitions and some very annoying coincidences which I felt could have been better handled.	2003-09-24
US	49224374	R2D96IADB6KU9V	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Second Plum is All the Sweeter	This second novel in the Stephanie Plum series (the first being &quot;One for the Money&quot;) starts out pretty much where the first left off. Our heroine, Stephanie, a ballsy but very inexperienced bond collector has been assigned what should be a simple case: Kenny Mancuso has skipped bail after blowing the kneecaps off his old friend Moogey Bues; get him back to jail. Unfortunately not only does Kenny not want to be found, it appears he is pyschotic and involved in a very deadly trade.<br />The villain of the first novel, Joe Morelli, who deflowered Stephanie in her teens and who she helped show was innocent in &quot;One for the Money&quot; is assigned to this case - though as a vice squad officer it's not clear why, and Morelli isn't helping. This partnership is flaky at best - with Morelli constantly trying to get into Plum's heart (a.k.a. her pants!), this time by playing nice with Mom, things are going to get out of hand. In one of the funniest episodes in the book Stephanie leaves Morelli just wearing his underwear in the middle of the road; she thinks better of this and goes back to give him his gun!<br />One of the biggest delights in this book is the development of Grandma Mazur who is the one member of her family who supports Stephanie in her job. Grandma Mazur is a cross between Dirty Harry and Sophia from The Golden Girls. One of her favorite activities are the public viewings at the funeral homes which is very handy since it seems that Kenny Mancuso has had shady dealings with a mortician, Spiro Stiva. Grandma is a bit accident prone - something that both helps Stephanie out, unexpectedly, and provides great comedy.<br />Stephanie is still learning her trade - &quot;by making mistakes&quot; she tells us. In this second book she is starting to get the hang of things but is still lucking out more often than not. I look forward to seeing how her character develops through the Plum novels. I think this novel would be a good enough introduction to Stephanie Plum but I would recommend reading the first novel if you haven't already done so.	2003-09-24
US	49224374	RTVKR0XEVWSBU	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Superb Collection of Glimpses into Life	What do you make of a collection of stories that includes lines such as, &quot;The thought was forced on me that no matter how coolly or sensibly or gracefully I might one day learn to live my life, I would always at best be a visitor in a garden wooden dummy-deity standing by in a marked-down rupture truss.&quot;?<br />If you are at all like me, the answer is that J.D. Salinger has put together a superlative collection of short stories, all a little surreal but all shedding great insights into human life. If there is a theme linking these stories it seems to be deceit - often self-deception. In perhaps the best of the stories (the only one not previously published), &quot;De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period&quot;, a young American returning from Paris, where he has grown up, is so delusioned with the American art scene (and his life) that he invents a new life for himself: Someone who's parents were friends of Picasso, somebody who's paintings already adorn the houses of the rich and famous - someone who is 10 years older than he really is.<br />This character then comes to life placed against the foil of the &quot;inscrutable&quot; Yoshoto couple who run a correspondence course in art. Like all of the stories, we are treated to exquisite detail of the deception being played out - almost unknowingly - until it comes crashing down on us, sometimes fatally.<br />You can read the entire first story in the book, &quot;A Perfect Day for Bananafish&quot; online and I would strongly advise you to do that. This story encapsulates some of the feeling of separation, ambiguity and surrealness that permeates all of the stories. A number of the stories are focussed very much on childhood and adolescence - obviously something dealt with in Salinger's most famous work &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;. Here we find Salinger at his best - perhaps the sense of loneliness at that age is easiest to write about?<br />Often with collections of short stories there are weak and strong ones. In this case, though, the standard is very very high throughout. As I mentioned I found &quot;De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period&quot; to be the best but &quot;The Laughing Man&quot; and &quot;Down at the Dinghy&quot; are right up there with it.<br />This is an ideal collection of short stories to dip into again and again and again.his case, though, the standard is very very high throughout. As I mentioned I found &quot;De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period&quot; to be the best but &quot;The Laughing Man&quot; and &quot;Down at the Dinghy&quot; are right up there with it.<br />This is an ideal collection of short stories to dip into again and again and again.	2003-09-23
US	49224374	R5DTTB2T5W4AL	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A war book, a Sci-Fi or just a journey?	This book is strange, very strange. Death permeates this book and, each time it is brought up the author pops his head above the waters and tells us, \\"So it goes.\\" There are an awful lot of times we see the phrase, \\"So it goes.\\" in this book.<br />Is this an anti-war book, then? If there is a central episode in the book, and that's not exactly clear, it's the firebombing of Dresden on the 13th February, 1945 - an undefended civilian town. Although it's impossible to know how many people were killed, Kurt Vonnegut uses the high estimates in the book. Whatever the number it's clear that this was one of the most disturbing episodes in World War II and one that obviously effected Kurt immensely.<br />The telling of this tale, then, could be considered anti-war. Indeed in chapter one, which is really an extended author's note, Kurt talks about this. He is cautioned against writing an anti-war book - it's like writing an anti-glacier book, he is told, because there is no way to prevent it. And I think that Kurt realizes this. And he tells us they'll always be death anyway. So it goes.<br />\\"The Children's Crusade\\", the sub-title of the book, reveals the truth about the second world war - that it is fought by young, inexperienced unprepared men fighting for a country they don't really believe in. A character appears in the book, an American who has turned traitor and is working for the Nazis, who details how the American poor are so downtrodden that they have no sense of loyalty or proprietary - compared, we have to assume, with the salt-of-the-earth European poor. On this level, this book stands with \\"Catch-22\\" and \\"The Naked and the Dead\\" in giving a brutal, damning account of the ridiculousness of those who actually fought WW II. \\"All the real soldiers are dead.\\" So it goes.<br />But this novel isn't a war story at all. It permeates it but the substance is quite different (by the way, the sample pages are from chapter one which, as I have said, is more of an author's note, so they don't really capture the heart of the book).<BR>The majority of the book is much stranger and is told in the third person (with wonderful interjections by the author as he is heard in the background on a troup train or in the prison camp!). We follow the life adventures of Billy Pilgrim (A Pilgrim's Progress of course), a sad delusioned man who believes he can journey back and forth in time.<br />And that's the way the story is presented - snapshots of time. Click. We're seeing him thrown into the deep end of the pool by his father to see if he'll sink or swim. Click. He's in a prisoner of war camp watching Cinderella performed by British Officers. Click. He's been transported by the Tramalfadorians - an extra-planetary race who see in four dimensions and provide Billy with all of his extraordinary insights. Click. He's in a mental hospital shortly after the war.<br />The mental health of Billy Pilgrim is something we have to contend with throughout the book. Strangely all of his insights provided by the Tramalfadorians have already been written by a fourth rate Sci-Fi author he is introduced to in a mental hospital. At one point he is put on display by the Tramalfadorians in a zoo and has to live on public display - eventually with an adult filmstar who has also been captured. Strangely the science fiction author has already written about such a zoo.<br />So, is Billy Pilgrim just living these books in his deranged mind? Is everything happening as he is recovering from massive head injuries sustained in a plane crash? Is the author a fictional invention of his too, someone visible to him only? This is part of the brilliance of this book. Kurt Vonnegut skillfully weaves what appear to be (and I'm sure are) real-life experiences of his time in Germany during the war with a brilliant but fractured mind.<br />The Tramalfadorians don't read books like we do. They have a set of experiences that are all read in parallel. The great authors are not those who cantell wonderful tales, not those who can define great characters but those who can make the overall feel of all of these simultaneous experiences be emotionally fulfilling. Of course what Kurt is doing with this book is precisely the same thing - we get this small snapshots that seem to come at us from all directions and leave us with an experience that is definitely more than the sum of it's parts.<br />My review really cannot do justice to this book. It is an astonishing work and well worth reading.	2003-09-15
US	49224374	R1NGOYC3Q72CON	0060234970	575376127	The Magician's Nephew (Book 1) (Narnia)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Read it first or read it last, it doesn't matter	This was the last of the Narnia Chronicles to be written but it is a prequel to the first one - \\"The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe\\". Although millions of children have grown up reading it first, C.S. Lewis felt that it deserved to be the first book in the series and, who are we to argue with him! I'm here to tell you, though, that it doesn't really matter. In my re-reading of the series I've actually read it second. For many, myself included, \\"The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe\\" has such a special place in our hearts that we have to start our journey there!<br />Like the other chronicles, C.S. Lewis wrote these as allegories of Christian faith though, and I must stress this, they can be read and enjoyed without considering this side to them. Appropriately, then, this \\"prequel\\" is about the creation of Narnia and some parallels can be find with the biblical story in Genesis - a temptation with an apple, for instance.<br />The story concerns Digory and Polly, two children living next door to each other in London townhouses. They discover that a shared attic allows them to explore right along the row and set out to visit a supposedly empty house. Unfortunately they pick the wrong door and end up falling into the clutches of Digory's evil uncle.<br />Saying any more would reveal the plot too much. Suffice it to say that they make journeys to other lands picking up people along the way they would rather have not found and ultimately discover Narnia.<br />And it's Narnia that's so wonderful about these books; a land of adventure, a land of make believe, a land that we just want to journey to ourselves. For me \\"The Magician's Nephew\\" will never capture the same magic of \\"The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe\\" but it is, none the less, a wonderful children's book and well worth reading.	2003-09-15
US	49224374	R3LBM6TSO0ZXM5	0452284694	511631376	The Gunslinger (Revised Edition): The Dark Tower I	Books	4	46	55	N	N	So many questions, so few answers	The hype surrounding the Dark Tower series finally got to me and I picked up The Gunslinger, unsure of what I would find. What I found was a stark, fresh, somewhat surreal and demanding (yet light!) experience that left me wanting more, much more.<br />This first novel in the series finds the hero (for wont of a better word!), The Gunslinger, slugging across the desert in search of the mysterious Man in Black. The desert is bleak and so our the words - yet they have a definite beauty. Along the way The Gunslinger meets a couple of people (are they alive or dead?) and reveals some of his back history - a strange massacre in a town, his childhood friends and mentors and hints at a Dark Tower.<br />Death permeates this book. We're not sure who's dead or alive. Something strange has happened with time - the main search right now is for this cause - and strange fragments of the &quot;real&quot; world appear through the fog - Hey Jude playing in a Western Saloon is one of the strange and wonderful images we encounter. Time itself is an illusion it seems and still the Man in Black is ahead of us.<br />My one reservation about the book is that the final meeting with the Man in Black is a little anticlimactic. Perhaps that's because it's been building up but after the meeting we wonder why he was running at all. However, there is a lot of backstory missing in the book - obviously slated for the later books - so perhaps issues like this will be resolved. All in all a most strange but powerful book - well worth reading.	2003-09-12
US	49224374	R3OL08NK23MH4	0425191184	17508097	Red Rabbit (Tom Clancy)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good premise, poor execution, no editing	Nobody can fault Tom Clancy for his plot ideas. Red Rabbit takes the real life shooting of the Pope in 1981 by the enigmatic (read weird!) Mehmet Ali Agca and poses an interesting question - what if this was actually an attempt by the USSR to silence the pope on the issue of Poland?<br />A cypher clerk within the KGB pieces together various messages and realizes what the target is. At this point his conscience sounds an alarm; can he allow this to continue? Must he defect so as to warn the Western world? Should he run - in CIA parlance, become a Rabbit?<br />Meanwhile Jack Ryan has been seconded to work with the British in London for a couple of years. He's right in place to work issues requiring cooperation between the US and the UK governments. Although he's an analyst at heart, he has seen action before and surely he'll see it again?<br />Using this as a basis, a tight, gripping, suspenseful thriller could have emerged as the CIA and MI6 attempt to get their Rabbit out of the USSR and try to protect the Pope's life. Alternatively we could have had an intriguing insight into the motivations of a defector. Unfortunately Tom Clancy succeeds with neither.<br />There is practically no suspense in this book. In fact at times I threw my hands up in the air and wondered why on earth Clancy hadn't introduced a problem, a conflict at key points that seemed to be crying out for one. An example: We are told about the randomness of searches on the workers leaking the KGB HQ - great, that sets us up for a thrilling sequence where our Rabbit might get caught. Nope, we get absolutely nothing along these lines. No tension, no signs that it might happen, no fretting. Nada!<br />It's almost as if Clancy was trying to write a novel where nothing really happens - that he wanted to show a more random nature to the spy game. Well, it didn't work for me. He also wants to dig into the psyche of these individuals, I feel; unfortunately he's no John Le Carre and what we get is repetitive,boring, rambling.<br />The repetition in this book is almost unbelievable - there seems to have been zero editing even of the basic kind, let alone the more brutal editing that was necessary. Some parts of the book let us in on the lives of the families but, for the most part, they are just irrelevant. Cathy Ryan has started a new job in London too at a prestigious hospital - great, but I don't need to hear about it unless it actually ties into the story!<br />Clancy uses his setting in England to display his knowledge of British phrases - he actually uses the word &quot;loo&quot; without explanation at one point! ;) For the most part this is OK but there were a few things he got wrong that jarred me, a Brit who's lived in the US for a few years. One thing that really annoyed me was that he seems to think that the problem with Britain's National Health Service is due to lazy doctors who run out to the pub in mid operation. There's plenty of problems with the NHS but it's not lazy, incompetent doctors that are the issue!<br />On the plus side the book is relatively easy to read. Although it's overly long and repetitive, the pages go by quickly and it would be perfect for it's target location - the airplane! It was also interesting seeing a book set in the early 80s but written today. You could tell that it wasn't written at the time it was set but, on the other hand, it's not long enough ago that it seems historical.<br />In conclusion, I wouldn't get this book unless you are a huge Tom Clancy fan or have read everything else in the airport's bookstore!	2003-09-11
US	49224374	RMV9ZOXDSN70C	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A masterful thriller	Dan Brown knows how to write a thriller. The pages of this book know how to turn, almost by themselves. He also has a wonderful knack for blurring the line between fact and fiction but this is very much fiction, however it is depicted.<br />In the beginning of the novel our hero, Robert Langdon, is called by the French police to help understand some strange symbology in the death of a curator at the Louvre. This starts a breathtaking journey through art and religion, Paris and London as he searches, with the aid of a young French woman and an eccentric English gentleman, for clues leading to ancient secrets.<br />In the background hovers \\"The Teacher\\", a mysterious figure who seems to be almost one step ahead of them at each turn. His disciple (or henchman!), Silas, is pursuing them with equal vigor thus setting the scene for this very suspenseful thriller.<br />The puzzles were well thought out and, better still, solvable by the casual reader which always gives a sense of satisfaction. My only real quibble was with the motivations of one of the minor characters - a bank manager - and when that's the biggest problem with a novel, it must be good.<br />There are obviously a large, vocal contingent who dislike this book on religious grounds. Everyone is entitled to their opinion but, for my view, it is still a work of fiction that some historical factual input. The weaving of the two is what provided much of the interest for me.<br />I have since read Angels & Demons. If you enjoyed that novel, you will find much to enjoy here too. There are certainly a lot of similarities in the construction of the books but both stand on their own and both are highly recommended.	2003-09-08
US	49224374	R7CQ2MHFU6CO9	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Why would a man commit murder?	The central figure of this expansive work, Raskolnikov, is an impoverished student - largely of his own making. As the book opens we find him occupied with a thought - an &quot;idea&quot;. During the development we realize that the idea is a murder of an old woman who Raskolnikov sees as evil. <br />The plot is very simple. Raskolnikov murders the woman, and her step-daughter who has the misfortune to walk in at the wrong time, he makes a botched search for money and escapes without anyone seeing him. The remainder of the book involves his attempts, or lack thereof, to prevent the truth from being discovered.<br />This novel is not about plot, though. It is about Raskolnikov's mind - specifically why he committed the murder and his nagging conscience that won't seem to let him get away with it. As with other 19th century Russian novels we also get a commentary on the times, political arguments and many sub-plots intertwined. All of this is handled masterfully.<br />The characters are what gives this novel such depth. At first glance some of the characters may appear to be too pat - the lazy student, the alcoholic, the prostitute, the bumbling policeman, etc. But all of Dostoevsky's characters are imbued with such life, such vigor that they leap off the page and stay in their minds. <br />And Raskolnikov's thoughts stay with us too - we really do wonder about whether murder can ever be right, whether people can be above the law and so on. I highly recommend this book.	2003-09-08
US	49224374	RANA2ALKPTV2R	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A riveting read - I really didn't expect that!	I borrowed this from my wife after running out of vacation reading of my own. I didn't really expect to get much out of it and was delighted to find that it was truly beautiful and a very easy read.<br />The concept for the hours comes from Virginia Woolf's Mrs Dalloway, a book I haven't read. I can't comment on whether you would get more from this novel if you had read Mrs Dalloway first but it's certainly not essential. The basic idea behind Mrs Dalloway are clearly brought out in the chapters that act as a kind of one-day biography for Virginia Woolf.<br />I also haven't seen the movie; my wife, who has, felt that the film had done such a good job that she didn't get much out of the book.<br />The novel intertwines the semi-biographical aspects of a day in Virginia Woolf's life with that of two American women. One is a homemaker in the late 40s who is reading Mrs Dalloway and wondering if her condition can shed light on what is wrong in her life; the other is a woman in New York in the nineties planning a party for her dying friend Richard. Both stories are neatly intertwined with Mrs Dalloway in a number of ways both plotwise and thematically.<br />And it is this intertwining that pulls the book along so well. It would have been so easy to spoil the flow or make things to obvious but Michael Cunningham succeeds beautifully in making the independent lives so connected for the brief day.	2003-09-08
US	49224374	R9JBKIMWY2N64	0684841177	484181364	Dj Dead	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The first and, in some ways, the best	I've read the Tempe Brennan books out of sequence - which does not seem to be an issue - and always wanted to read what started it. To some extent Deja Dead is a little raw - Tempe's character is a little undeveloped in places and the writing style changes through the book as Kathy Reichs finds her flow. Tempe is also more of a loner in this book (in detective terms) than in some of the later ones and that doesn't quite ring true.<br />However, the plot in Deja Dead seems better developed than some of the others, it sucks you in a little more. It opens with Tempe investigating the mutilated remains of a victim - something rings a bell with her and she realizes this could be a serial murderer at work. However, she can never get the lead investigator, a chauvinistic Montreal detective, to see this. Part of the problem I have with the novel is that after a certain time it's obvious it's a serial case and the detective not accepting it becomes somthing of a joke.<br />In any case, such quirks are fairly minor. What we do get in this book is solid forensic work, a gripping story and an introduction to a very strong character in Tempe Brennan and the start of a characteristic, very readable style.<br />I have thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tempe Brennan books I've read and recommend them to any fan of forensics or detective novels.	2003-09-08
US	49224374	R2WVT3H0DKM7WO	0879236604	524943710	Peter Duck: A Treasure Hunt in the Caribbees (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One of the best stories in the series	I remember reading Peter Duck as a child and being a little disappointed. As a child the adventures of the Swallows & Amazons was best when they were as far away from adults as possible. Battling Uncle Jim / Captain Flint for his houseboat was one thing - going on a sea voyage with him in charge was quite another.<br />Re-reading the series as an adult, however, I see this in a whole new perspective. Simply put the actual story, and the story-telling, racks amongst the highest in the series. The scope of the book, running from the mouth of the broads which we come to love later in the series, right down to Crab Island in the Caribbean is wonderful. The intrigue and adventure is at a higher level to match too.<br />Arthur Ransome is one of the story tellers who believes in dealing with \\"bad people\\" head on - and in this tale, Black Jake and his crew are really some of the most despicable characters in children's literature. We always hope they will meet a sticky end. However, the writing is a little out of date now in terms of some derogatory words used for black people and Spaniards. I believe such language can be used as an important educational tool to explain why we no longer use these words (it should be noted that it is the rough characters that use these terms).<br />The book never comments on this as being \\"fictional\\". Of course they are all fictional tales, but this is fiction within fiction because we find out in other books that this was a tale made up by everyone. However, it is still written very realisitically and anyone with a love for sailing will find the chapters about the setup of the boat or the sailing down the North Sea and the English Channel wonderful.	2003-08-25
US	49224374	R1Y7VY34JPG29E	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful children's tale	It's been a long time since I read The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe as a child but, even now, I can remember the magic that book gave me. I've just re-read it as an adult and it's still a wonderful, spriritual experience - perhaps more so.<br />CS Lewis wrote these books with a very obvious allegory - obvious, perhaps, for everyone except the target audience! Some people will say, therefore, that these are Christian books - suitable only for Christians perhaps? But I strongly disagree. The tales provide strong moral guidelines (in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, Edmund is led astray by the empty promises of the white witch and has to have his sin's redeemed by a sacrifice) but they can be read at many levels and one is just a pure fairy tale. It is really a tale of good versus evil.<br />In this book (which despite the re-numbering, I still consider to be the first book!), we are introduced to the four children - brothers and sisters - who's adventures we see. Like many children's authors, CS Lewis uses the concept of separation from the parents to provide a safe haven for imagination - in this case wartime evacuation leads to a very strange house with a wonderful old man who allows them - encourages them - to explore what truth is. In this case \\"truth\\" lies beyond a wardrobe in the magical land of Narnia. A land in the midst of a permanent winter caused by the magic of an evil queen. As the children explore this world, and meet it's good and bad inhabitants, they are each changed and grow with the experience.<br />The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a very accessible book open to young readers - in fact, it would be suitable for one of the first chapter books I feel. Yet it has enough depth that it can be read by older children again and again - much as I did as a child!	2003-08-24
US	49224374	R2O5V6K5XXA5SR	0670031917	967448146	The 6th Lamentation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An intriguing tale of wartime loyalties	An old woman with a secret is dying, an old man has just claimed sanctuary in a monastery, a journalist has just discovered hidden archives about an SS officer and his French collaborator being granted entry to England after the war. Are all of these things connected? We know they must be, through the conventions of the novel, but William Brodrick succeeds in keeping the suspense up and throwing a few surprises in masterfully.<br />So, it's a gripping yarn. But what sets this apart from other current mysteries, is the wonderful language. I must admit, it took a few pages to settle into, but once you're there you are hooked for good. Beyond the straight tale, we also see into our character's lives, feel for them, watch them grow. In short, we have real believable characters within a wonderful story.<br />William Brodrick has also created a character - a monk named Father Anselm - seemingly losely based on himself, who could well become a great mystery character if Mr. Brodrick so chooses. William Brodrick was a monk before returning to lay life as a lawyer; Father Anselm is an ex-lawyer turned monk but he isn't completely satisfied with that life either. This conflict is (I'm sure deliberately) unresolved by the novel's end leaving room for growth. I certainly look forward to meeting him again.<br />This book reminded me a little of Donna Tartt's &quot;The Secret History&quot;. Both books are by first time novelists, both have secrecy as a major theme and both are, what we might term, literary thrillers. It's a comparison I hope neither of the authors would mind because these are both great books. I highly recommend &quot;The 6th Lamentation&quot; to anyone interested in well-written books and/or great mysteries.	2003-08-21
US	49224374	R1OLU5JEPIPXJX	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An amazing journey of one family	It's very difficult to describe \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude\\". On a very basic level it is the story of the Buenda family from the time they found the city of Macondo to ... well, that would give the story away too much, but let's say it chronicles the rise and fall of the town and the family.<br />Like with most great books, however, the story is of minor importance. What we get from this book is wonderful, vibrant, characters - individual, but at the same time, so alike. One of the overwhelming themes in the book, and it's commented on explicitly, is the circle of life. We see the same patterns repeated throughout the generations - literary techniques like the use of the same or similar names for various characters reinforce this.<br />The book also gives us an insight into the politics of the times - and, perhaps of today. In the story a series of wars breaks out between the ruling conservatives and the opposition liberals. These wars, in which one of the great characters of the book, Colonel Aureliano Buenda, plays an instrumental role end as the liberals become more and more like the conservatives they despise.<br />One of the greatest influences on Gabriel Garcia Marquez's writing was, apparently, his grandmother who used to mix completely fantastical elements into her story with a total belief in their reality. This same device - though I doubt his grandmother considered it that - is used throughout One Hundred Years of Solitude. Women aged over 145 are commonplace; mysterious gypsies with magical powers are revered; ghosts naturally inhabit the house and interact with the family. The theme of myth and reality is enhanced by the way the villagers trust the gypsie's magic more than modern inventions and the way that events and entire characters in the story become legend by the end of it. \\"What is truth?\\" we ask ourselves.<br />The language used in the book is beautiful; I wish that I had the ability to read it in the native Spanish but I have the impression that the majority of it carries through. Reading the book I was often reminded of Toni Morrisson's Beloved which has similarly beautiful language mixed with themes of family, magic and ghosts too. Some of the themes can be disturbing - incest, near rape, trophy women, etc. are dealt with in a very real way.<br />Finally, if you are at all interested in reading one of the greatest books of literature, you must read this book.	2003-08-21
US	49224374	R12N3VU6XQ7CY4	0789205386	81489815	The Expectant Father: Facts, Tips and Advice for Dads-to-Be, Second Edition	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Mostly good but soured, in places,	It seems so long ago I got this book - my wife brought it back from a business trip hoping that it would be &quot;necessary&quot;; she had instructed me to go to the pharmacy to pick up the pregnancy test ready for her.<br />Luckily the book was needed and prooved to be most useful. If you are the to-be-Dad and are annoyed that in these days of sharing, there aren't any books aimed at you, here is the book you need.<br />Along side a lot of stuff you'll find in the standard maternity books, are some thoughts about what you might be feeling, about how your life will change and ideas about how to help out. Probably the best pieces of advice I got from this was to make sure you would be a father, not a surrogate mother. For instance, Armin makes the point that often a Dad having to stay home for the day with their child(ren) will say they are babysitting. No, Armin says, you are not babysitting - you are being a father.<br />This philosophy has been very helpful as I have helped my daughter grow. My wife stays at home and so gets the lion share of the attention, but I've re-arranged my workday so I now leave in the wee hours and get back home by 4.30 - which gives me a lot of time with my daughter. I think reading this book really helped me to make those sort of choices.<br />My one grumble is that Armin can be a bit dismissive of us men. OK, seeing some of my family members, perhaps he's right but they would never have read this book anyway! It seems to me that us Dads reading this book probably don't have to be told that it would be helpful to do some cooking or cleaning when our wife / girlfriend is pregnant or the baby has recently arrived because we are already doing so!	2003-08-18
US	49224374	R1HP7DXW5LGEM3	0425188132	426661861	State of War (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 7)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	The first Tom Clancy I read was not a good one!	My wife picked this up for me - she thought I might enjoy Tom Clancy. In fact I do - but this isn't really Tom Clancy at all and, in fact, I'm embarrassed for him.<br />The good news: It's an easy and almost fun read.<br />The bad news: The writing is absolutely dreadful. I mean really really bad.<br />I will give some other Net Force books a chance some time. The premise is interesting and there are supposed to be some good books in the series out there. This, unfortunately, is not one of them!	2003-08-14
US	49224374	R1UX5CBF98PKUE	0060958332	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An interesting and thought provoking read	I have a daughter who's just turned two and, therefore, prime material for an informal study of language development. Time and time again I found myself saying, &quot;Yes - yes, of course&quot; and relating it to what my daughter was doing. This was also one of those books that I kept finding interesting snippets I just had to tell my wife - immediately! She was so happy when I finished this book, I can tell you.<br />Steven Pinker is firmly on the side of us having in-built facilities for language development (as opposed to us having generic capabilities that have to be completely tuned each time for language). That suits me just fine but obviously if you are a nurturist you may find a lot to disagree with. Some of his more controversial points I did feel were pushing it, but on the overall premise that we have some built-in capabilities for language, I found him to be most persuasive.<br />This is definitely a lay-man's book. However, it is not a non-technical book - a previous study of logic, in particular, will probably help when reading. I glazed over a number of the Chomsky equation bits and pieces and I don't think I missed out on much by doing so. You can read it on many levels and find something.	2003-08-13
US	49224374	R22GTWK717U8QR	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enjoyable but a little patchy	&quot;On Writing&quot; is divided into a number of sections. The first part, what he calls his CV, is a mini auto-biography and is absolutely terrific. Focussing primarily on those parts of his childhood that have effected his writing, this provides a riveting account of his development as a young aspiring writer.<br />The second section he calls the toolbox - those abilities you need to have or develop in order to be a good writer. Third, and following on from this, is the actual section on writing. There is some good stuff in these two sections but there is also a lot of take-this-as-fact when it's really just opionion. I'm going to focus on two of them; my rationale for placing these in the review is that they might be enough to put you off reading it:<br />a) He classifies writers into bad, competent, good and genius and declares that you can make a competent writer good but you can't make a bad writer competent. (I think we can all agree that geniuses are born, not made!) This is just plain wrong. You need to understand the reasons that the writer is bad. Perhaps the writer is just too young or too undeveloped; perhaps they just need some focus; perhaps they misuse a particular part of language terribly but have good ideas. Yes, there will always be people who are bad writers and always will be but it's my contention that anyone able to read &quot;On Writing&quot; has got the ability to be a competent writer, whatever the current state of their written ability is.<br />My second gripe is his hard and fast list of what makes bad writing. He has a particular grudge against the use of adverbs when describing conversation: 'she said excitedly', etc.. OK, so that's his opinion but it isn't a fast rule. In particular one of the current genius's (IMHO) is JK Rowling and she uses them all over the place (Stephen King has commented on that in his reviews of her books too). Personally I never even gave them a second thought until I saw him mention them. I re-read a few passages, thought - yup, she uses them a lot and, *they work*.<br />The next section is about his infamous car (or should I say pedestrian?) accident and recovery from it. This part brought back memories about my Dad's recovery from a car crash and I thought it was a very poignant section. I must say, though, I wonder if the book suffered from this since some of the On Writing section was the first writing Stephen did during his recovery.<br />In summary: This is a useful book for anyone interested in Stephen King, his writing, writing yourself or just understanding the process. But, don't expect too much information about actually writing and, what there is, is a little too rigid for my liking.	2003-08-12
US	49224374	RXA5ZSC59ZQJ8	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Mixed feelings	I had big expectations about this book - expectations that were, ultimately, unfulfilled. Partly it was the hype - as a big Harry fan, I was led to this as a \\"fill the void\\" book. But, as others have pointed out, this isn't Harry Potter and comparisons are futile.<br />So, instead, you get a 34 year old man reading a kid's book, enjoying it somewhat but not getting any benefit from being 34! If I was 10 again, I think I would have absolutely loved it, probably given it five stars and the world would be right.<br />Anyway, back to the book. Our hero Artemis Fowl is a very very naughty boy (as the Monty Python team might describe him). Unfortunately, for the world at large, he is also extremely clever and resourceful. Amazingly dedicated for a twelve year old he spends a lot of time, energy and gold searching for the secrets to the fairies. At last he finds a washed-up fairy who he tricks into giving the Booke and uses this to try and get a big stash of gold.<br />The book is very humorous - but it is more of a child's humor than something that will also get adults chortling. It's kind of Terry Pratchett lite! It's a very easy read and I will go ahead and read the rest of them - I'll just have a better idea what I'm going to get.<br />In summary - if you are a child, you'll probably love this book; if you are a child at heart, you might not love it quite so much.	2003-08-11
US	49224374	R35JKSTEKA5UEW	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent opener	I remember when Goblet of Fire came out and I found out some friends of mine had bought it. Adults reading a children's book, I thought? What on earth?! That Christmas my mum bought me book one (she actually bought me the Philosopher's Stone - I'm originally from the UK). I put it to one side thinking, cute gift - what am I going to do with that? Stuck without anything to take on a cross-country plane journey, I threw it into my bag.<br />My trip was from DC to San Francisco via Denver. At the layover in Denver I was so enthused by Harry Potter I rushed to the store to buy Chamber of Secrets. In San Francisco I rushed out to get Prisoner of Azkaban. On my return to Virginia I bought Goblet of Fire and anxiously waited, with the rest of the world, for The Order of The Phoenix. These books are not just for kids!<br />Anyway, back to the Sorceror's Stone. Obviously we are introduced to Harry and his world. This first novel in the series has a charm all to itself - an innocence, almost - we're not yet flung into the horrors that are to follow. Hogwarts, discussed at much length, is a wonderful mixture of old-time British public boarding schools and wizardry. For someone like me, brought up on Billy Bunter, Jennings and other boarding school books it transplanted me back to a magical time from my childhood.<br />But the book is so much more than that. We start to get a feeling that not all is right in the magical world. The evil Lord Voldemort has killed Harry's parents in a very mysterious way and left Harry with a very puzzling scar. And not all is as it should be at school. Rumors and whispers follow Harry whereever he goes; some new classmates are anything but friendly - some new teachers are very much enemies already! As with the first four books, there are some big plot twists - characters we suspect turning out good, those we don't suspect being the villain. The final confrontation turns out to be, just the beginning for Harry.<br />Some people find this story difficult to get into. The first few chapters build the characters and atmosphere more than the plot. Persevere - you might just get into it. And then look for the hidden meanings. JK Rowling showers her world with puns, anagrams, latin terms and other wordplays. Read things out loud - sudennly Diagon Alley might not be all that it seems!<br />Then go and read the rest. The Harry Potter books really are best read in the order they were written: Sorceror's Stone, Chamber of Secrets, Prisoner of Azkaban, Goblet of Fire and Order of the Phoenix. Go on, become a Potterhead!ficult to get into. The first few chapters build the characters and atmosphere more than the plot. Persevere - you might just get into it. And then look for the hidden meanings. JK Rowling showers her world with puns, anagrams, latin terms and other wordplays. Read things out loud - sudennly Diagon Alley might not be all that it seems!<br />Then go and read the rest. The Harry Potter books really are best read in the order they were written: Sorceror's Stone, Chamber of Secrets, Prisoner of Azkaban, Goblet of Fire and Order of the Phoenix. Go on, become a Potterhead!	2003-08-08
US	49224374	R1O5UPV2FZLGOS	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What is hiding in Hogwarts?	I first read Chamber of Secrets hot on the heels of finishing The Sorceror's Stone (book 1 in the Harry Potter series). I had run into a bookstore during a layover at an airport to buy Chamber of Secrets because I knew that I'd be finishing Sorceror's Stone by the time I reached my final destination. Down went one book and up came the other and I was transported straight back into Harry's world.<br />The Chamber of Secrets opens, like with all other Harry books so far, at the Dursleys. Fearful of his magical abilities, the Dursleys have locked all of Harry's things away for the summer. Not only that but none of his so-called friends have been writing to him. Harry is miserable. Just when he thinks things can't get worse he gets a strange visitor warning him that he mustn't return to Hogwarts that year because dreadful things are planned!<br />Of course Harry can't stay with the Dursleys - that is a fate worse than death so off to Hogwarts he tries to go. But something is wrong - why can't he get on the train with his friend Ron? When he does get to school, dreadful things really do start to happen. Filch's cat, the Gryffindor house ghost - even some of his best friends have a very mysterious fate in store! Worse than that - much of the school suspects Harry of being involved. It's up to him to get to the root of the trouble and he's sure the answer lies with his nemesis, Draco Malfoy.<br />This is a better book than the first - though with the Harry Potter books, they are really in a class of their own. We get into the action much quicker this time - in fact, out of all of the books, this is really the most action packed. We also start to meet more of the wizarding world - including some interesting creatures, his best friend Ron's house and an extremely over the top Defect Against the Dark Art's teacher who might not be all he makes himself out to be. We also find out more about Harry - was he really supposed to be in Gryffindor and why is he so like Salazar Slytherin himself?<br />I suggest you read these books in the order they were written - so read The Sorceror's Stone first. Enjoy!rin himself?<br />I suggest you read these books in the order they were written - so read The Sorceror's Stone first. Enjoy!	2003-08-08
US	49224374	RIBLTYP49Q93D	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent page turner	This was the second Kathy Reich's novel I've read - the first was Fatal Voyage. Although I've read these out of sequence that doesn't seem to be an issue so feel free to start whereever you like!<br />Fatal Voyage was set purely in the Carolinas; this one is divided fairly evenly between Tempe's alta-egos - the Southern Belle and the French Canadienne ;) and is more involving for the change of scenery. Tempe starts with the exhumation of a 19th century nun, though her tale doesn't mingle much with the rest of the story. We quickly discover that not is all that it seems with the discovery and, my one major gripe, is that we're not told what it is that Tempe has found. For me mystery novels are better when we are given the information as the hero / heroine discovers it. In this case it would have added to the mystery if we had known what, exactly, was so puzzling.<br />Anyway, Tempe quickly gets drawn into the main story - the hunt for the brutal killers of a family in Canada. Bodies are dropping everywhere and, at first, there's no indication that they are connected. Are they? Tempe seems to think so and the hunt around Quebec and the Carolinas heats up.<br />Of course, Tempe cannot hunt this quarry without herself becoming a target herself. But is her sister a target this time too?<br />As before, Kathy Reichs skillfully weaves these various events into one compelling story that keeps the pages turning and the mind ticking. Great!	2003-08-08
US	49224374	R32CG55VYV5A6O	0312265050	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	136	146	N	N	Beautiful, sad and very lonely	Earlier this year I decided to improve the quality of the books I was reading - or, at least, to mix more \\"good\\" books in with the easy reading. The Naked and the Dead was the first of these - and what a good choice it was.<br />Norman Mailer writes with a clarity that is often missing from other good novelists. He develops very strong characters and focusses closely on the interactions between them and their environment. Don't expect an action-packed story: The tales here are the soldier's lives and the lack of action is part of war which seems to be very realistically reconstructed.<br />The story, for what it's worth, follows a band of recon soldiers on an island in the Pacific during World War II. The book opens with the initial assault on the Japanese-held island; it finishes with the quick and anti-climatic (deliberately so) mopping up of the last troups. In between we follow the soldiers' progress through the jungle, go with them on a desperate recon. mission, and learn about their lives through a series of personal flashbacks.<br />We also see a full range of characters - at all levels in the army - and see their private and semi-private battles with authority. Often the authority in question is an over-demanding or idiotic superior; just as often it is an insolant, stubborn inferior. It is this interplay between the ranks that makes this novel stand out.<br />The book seems long, but it really is a page turner up with the best of them. At the end of it, you'll be able to say you really enjoyed a work of great fiction.	2003-08-08
US	49224374	R1V8QLDI1G92RP	0439567629	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Worth the extra? I think so.	....<br />What do you get? Basically a very beautiful book. The feel of the book is wonderful, the additional artwork suitably gloomy and mysterious and the cloth cover is a wonderful thing to have. And, who knows? It could end up to be a sought-after item in years to come?<br />If you're on a budget, by the standard edition. If you have a little extra to spare (I used an unexpected gift certificate) and are a big Potter fan, get this edition - it's truly beautiful.	2003-08-08
US	49224374	R3NCI8VCHWE4F	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A gripping tale mixing forensics and warm characters	This was the first Kathy Reichs novel I read - and now I want to read all of her Temperence Brennan books!  Kathy Reichs has created a wonderful character in Tempe; she's extremely realistic - in fact, we wonder where she ends and where Kathy begins!<br />Fatal Voyage starts out with Tempe exploring a wooded area, finding all sorts of body parts in weird positions. This book isn't for the squeamish! This opening is extremely entriguing as we begin to find out what the focus of the story will be.<br />Tempe finds herself getting drawn into the events in an extremely personal way - she has to battle emnity from once trusted colleagues while still trying to tiptoe around her relationship problems.<br />Along the way we get a heavy dose of forensic science. I'm a big fan of this but I think you would enjoy this novel even if you don't. One minor quib I have is that the exposition of the science tends to come in dialogue with one player playing the domain expert and the other playing the...(most of the time). This gets a bit waring after a while - straightforward explanations would have been preferable.<br />Anyway, it's a minor distraction as Tempe makes her way, trying to identify where a series of mysterious deaths come from. Are they related to a mysterious preacher? Are they anything to do with key elected officials? Why are once trusted friends suddenly no longer on her side?<br />If you haven't read a Kathy Reichs book before, read this one. If you have read one and liked it, you'll love this!	2003-08-07
US	49224374	R2AD98CKHXPRHH	0805072152	801154375	The Child That Books Built: A Life in Reading	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A well-written, well thought out review of childhood reading	For me, a 34 year old British guy, one of the most interesting parts was seeing just how my childhood reading overlapped with Francis Spufford's. His re-reading has spurred me on to do the same and I'm enjoying taking a fresh look at my old favorites.<br />This is not a light-hearted read, though. This is a fairly academic exercise, picking the books he read as a child and really analyzing them as to how they affected his development. Do not expect a romp through the books, expect a detailed, studied analysis.<br />The writing, though, is beautiful. Francis knows how to read well and how to write better! Mingling a little bit of autobiography, Francis breaks the books down into various categories. Some, like the Narnia chronicles, get full chapters to themselves. Some, like the Swallows & Amazons tales, get mentioned in passing.<br />If you are at all interested in how childhood books affect our adulthood, read this book. At the very least, it might inspire you to embark of the same odyssey.	2003-08-05
US	49224374	R4DIQRV9PWLWN	087923573X	449786655	Swallows and Amazons	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A wonderful tale of times gone by	Recently I've started going back and re-reading some of the books I loved as a child - something insprired by Francis Spufford's wonderful \\"The Child That books Built\\".<br />One of my favorite series from my childhood was the Swallows & Amazons series. How I loved the idea of sailing off with the Walker and Blackett children; I had the biggest crush on Nancy that I've ever had for a fictional character!<br />So, here I am re-reading them and they are truly as marvellous as they ever were. If you have any interest in sailing, camping, the lake district or just plain good story telling, read these books.<br />The first in the series, Swallows & Amazons, is also, arguably, the best of the bunch. This is the tale at it's purest and before more and more characters come in to dilute the stories a little. Don't get me wrong - a number of the other books are also five star candidates but there will always be a special place in my heart for the one that started it all.<br />For children today, I think these tales will still give something. For their time the girls in the stories were very strong characters - in particular Nancy Blackett holds her own with any of the boys. And where we do find some rather ... examples (the girls cook while the boys mend sails) I think we can easily put it in the context of the time, and use it as a touchpoint for how far equality has come (or perhaps to use examples of families where it really hasn't changed much).<br />Arthur Ransome is very detailed about the specifics of sailing; for me that was part of the beauty of the books. I never did learn to sail but I always thought I could after reading his novels! But, if that's not your cup of tea, feel free to skip those parts - you won't lose much by doing so.	2003-08-05
US	49224374	R2K7JBN0Y3R4MU	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful, haunting tale	I decided to read Beloved as part of a personal campaign to improve the &quot;quality&quot; of books I was reading - or at least to seriously broaden my horizons. I must admit I approached it with some trepidation. I thought that Toni Morrison would be difficult to read, too female-oriented or just plain boring.<br />Of course, as with all great writers, she's nothing of the sort! The language is really beautiful and poetic. The characters in this, what amounts to a ghost story, are extremely well developed. Toni builds the story, eaking parts of each character's history out - leaving us guessing, wondering, wanting more information. At first this can make for some difficult reading as it's not entirely clear in the first chapter just what is going on. But stick with it, it will pay off in the end.	2003-08-05
US	49224374	R3TL49VUR5BSUE	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable but ultimately unfulfilling	I think I've read all of John Grisham's novels and this one is definitely my least favorite. Like all of his books it's eminently readable - the pages keep turning, almost by themselves! But it's a pretty obvious conclusion that you see building up, the motivations of the characters were not convincing and the final pages were mostly a &quot;so what&quot;?	2003-07-23
US	49224374	R1XN3BZKQWYV61	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Longer, darker, better!	The first thing to say is that not everyone will find OOTP better than the previous books. The tone is darker, Harry is very upset and feels different than the other books and character development is much stronger while plot twists and turns are down-played.<br />But for me this is just an incredible book! The first two chapters are, in my opinion, the best two that JK Rowling has ever written. From there things slow a little bit but my interest did not waiver one time.<br />We find out much more about the past of Sirius, Snape and Harry's own father James than we had done. Perhaps most importantly we find out Trelawney's first prediction and why Dumbledore has kept Harry in the dark up till now.<br />Many questions are answered in this book but many are left open and, as it ends we wonder, now that the wizarding world is more united, what is the Dark Lord going to do about it? Will Harry fulfill his destiny or will Voldemort overcome him? <br />And, on a lighter side, will Fred & George become the big kingpins on Diagon Alley, is Hermione wearing her Christmas present from Ron and what were there OWL results!<br />On a practical note, those who do not have much experience of English slang might want to keep a British dictionary handy with this one - the book seems less \\"translated\\" than the others and much better for it.<br />Finally, the wait was long but oh so worth it!	2003-06-23
US	49224374	R3INU3TXXWEWHU	0789467267	19111765	Ainsley Harriott's Meals in Minutes as seen on BBC	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent basic cookbook - easy and tasty recipes!	OK, first let's get passed the Meals in Minutes question - yes the recipes are pretty simple but, as with other books, the recipes could only be done in the time they say if you have everything out on your workspace ready and are an expert chopper. So, you should add 15 minutes to any recipe to get a good idea of &quot;real&quot; time.<br />But the recipes themselves are wonderful - easy to make, relatively few ingredients but still very tasty. I've cooked five of the recipes so far and not a single miss yet! My wife loved the lamb biryani I did the other night when normally she hates my curries!<br />If you are after simple but good recipes, look no further!	2002-04-10
