US	49230368	R3U8RR2KXXEA2S	0761121323	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Somewhat Patronizing In Its Tone	This is my first pregnancy, so I went out and bought this book right away, having heard it was so great.  After having read it, I think that it has its good parts and its parts that are not so good.  One thing that I really did not like was the so-called \\"Best Odds Diet\\" that is featured in the first few chapters.  How in God's name is anyone supposed to eat THAT much food in one day--not to mention the fact that most of the food listed was enough to make me want to puke just thinking about it (molasses??  lentils??  Gag me!!)  Who are these authors to tell me what to put in my mouth and make me feel like I'm \\"harming\\" my baby if I don't follow this granola/earth mother diet to the tee??  Another thing that I did not like was the fact that it doesn't really show you any realistic pictures of what the developing baby looks like.  I really wanted to know that! The pictures are crudely drawn and more of an afterthought than anything else.  The thing that bothered me the most was how the book suggested in one part that if you are feeling queasy and having morning sickness that perhaps you are just stressed  out and worred about becoming a mother!!!!!  How downright patroninzing!!!!  I had to check to see if this book was REALLY written by a woman when I read that!  Other sources that I've read have linked nausea to elevated HCG and hormone levels in your body--which makes a heckuva lot more sense!!! Ugh!!!  It just goes to show how little some people really know about a woman's body and being pregnant.<BR>Some of the question and answer type parts of the book were informative and I did glean some basic information from the book.  But basic is the key word here.  Go find some other books if you want to completely educate yourself on pregnancy and childbirth.  This one is just for the occasional reference, and that's it.	2002-05-16
US	49230368	R3UJM60N6VWRYY	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	1	9	10	N	N	I Found it to Be Good....	I found it to be good.  Plot...good. Characters...good.  Setting...also good. Interesting dialogue...very good.  Ha!  Just kidding!  This book was mediocre at best, and completely boring at worst.  If you are an insomniac and looking to find some bedtime reading material to put you to sleep, this would be the one! ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ!	2002-03-31
US	49230368	RIUNJX5BV6KK2	0385499825	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy: Growing Up Small in Mooreland Indiana	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Amusing!	The title character in \\"A Girl named Zippy\\" is an amusing child somewhere between the ages of three and ten.  In this book, Haven Kimmel (Zippy) recalls the little things that make up her childhood in a series of short chapters.  These chapters are not arranged in chronological order; rather, they are arranged the way an adult's mind thinks as it calls to mind memories from childhood.  They are disjointed and out of order, but they evoke a clear, sharp reminder of childhood and past times.  Zippy is truly a brat, as you will find out when you read this book and hear some of the things that she says and read of some of the things she does.  However, she is extremely funny and you will probably laugh out loud at many of her antics!  Haven uses exaggeration, sarcasm, and dry wit to her advantage in this book.  She is not the best writer in the world, but it works!  As amusing as this book was, though, I found myself feeling a little sorry for Zippy and her family in some ways.  Her mother is an overweight, depresssed woman who never leaves the couch (where she escapes from life through the world of books) except to go to church.  Her father is an apparent alcoholic who never seems to have a job, gambles often, and leaves guns laying about the house.  She does not seem to have any grandparents or other relatives that they are on speaking terms with.And her brother and sister seem remote and caught up in their own lives. There is sort of a gentle sadness that surrounds the people in her family that just makes you want to cry.  Zippy and her siblings seem to live in poverty (as do most of her townmates) and their house always seems to be filthy. Zippy does not even have her own bed--she sleeps in a sleeping bag on the living room floor! Yet, through it all, Zippy does not seem to notice any of that; instead, she is quite happy as she zips and runs and pummels her way through life. This book is equal parts happy and sad, just like real life.  One of my favorite things about the book was the photographs that preface each chapter.  I love to look at other people's photographs, and so this was an added little benefit that made the people of this story come to life in a way that mere words can not always do.	2002-03-16
US	49230368	R1F2QT7SHO50UL	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Magnifique!	I really liked this book!  It was charming in its simplicity, yet the descriptions of the characters and the little French village where they all lived made me yearn for more. The whole story was just so much like a fairy tale for adults!  I had seen the movie before I read the book, yet I truly enjoyed both in different ways.  The book gives you a little more depth than the movie, I think.  The only problem was that I kept craving chocolate while I was reading this book, so eventually I just gave in to it and ate Dove chocolates like crazy!  The thick creamy chocolate bits made the book just that much sweeter. You will like this book, too--just be sure you have plenty of chocolate on hand while reading!  P.S. - Try some of Joanne Harris' other books, too.  They are just as good!	2002-03-05
US	49230368	RT3JYMXKD1JYG	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quantum Leap!	After reading Dean Koontz's previous novel, \\"False Memory\\" and becoming utterly disgusted with his writing syle, I wasn't sure if I would like this book. I borrowed this one from the library because I didn't want to waste my money if this book turned out to be more alliterative drivel and metaphoric monstrosities like the last one I read.  However, I ended up liking this book a lot!  I was actually hooked and interested from the very first chapter.  The book is about a man named Junior Cain who commits many senselessly evil deeds throughout the story.  It is also about a boy named Barty who is somewhat of a child prodigy and the epitome of goodness. The story revolves around their lives and the bizarre ways in which each character is interconnected.  One of the things that I really liked about this book were the themes that ran through it.  The story ,of course, was about the nature of good vs. the nature of evil.  It also elaborated on the ways that we are all connected to each other by many threads whether we realize it or not.  What each one of us does affects every single other person or creature on this planet; therefore, it is better to spread goodness rather than evil. The universe, while seemingly random, is actually a complex web of patterns that affect us all. Pretty basic themes, but very thought-provoking.  I rather liked the smattering of quantum physics throughout the story  (actually less boring than it sounds!). Another theme that I liked was that things aren't always what they seem.  This theme was seen in many ways throughout the story, but I  really enjoyed the way the bad guy was a very handsome and debonair man that was into culture and art and attractive to the ladies, while the good guy was physically handicapped and a bit repulsive(he had no eyes).I also liked the biblical monikers given to the characters and their symbolic meanings.  <BR>   As far as the characters go, they were not 100 percent realistic or believeable; but, they were interesting and even somewhat comical at times. I liked the way that different characteristics of man were personified and made into characters.  For example, evil is portrayed as being senseless, unintelligent, bumbling,violent, fearful, and cowardly (Junior Cain) and goodness is portrayed as being intelligent, kind, trusting, innocent, and encompassing warmth and love (Barty).  <BR>Maybe I'm analyzing a bit too much into this, but I have to say that this was a much better book that some of the others I've read by Koontz.  I'm not sure why so many of his books are so hit or miss, but this one was a definite hit with me!  I would definitely recommend it to any fan of suspense or mystery novels.	2002-02-25
US	49230368	R3OTA8T4VPOTS5	0618077367	546953115	The Polar Express Deluxe Gift Package	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Absolutely Enchanting!	This book is one of the most magical children's books I have ever come across! As soon as you open the front cover, you enter an exquisite world that has an almost dream-like quality to it.  It is told in the first person point of view of an adult recounting his most memorable Christmas experience. And what an experience! The boy in the story is awakened one Christmas Eve by a train whistle and discovers the Polar Express waiting to take him to the North Pole to see Santa.  Once there, the boy is chosen to receive the first gift of Christmas.  The boy has a touchingly simple request --to have one of the bells from the harness of Santa's reindeer. It is given to him, and he is filled with joy!  Yet, on the way home, the boy discovers that there is a hole in the pocket of his bathrobe, and he has lost the treasured bell.He is heart broken. The next morning he finds the bell in a box under the tree, and he rejoices in the new-found bell and its marvelous sound! The catch?  Only those who truly believe in the magic of Santa can hear the sound of the bell.<br />  I read this story every year to my children, and every year there is absolute silence as they listen, entranced, to this deceptively simple story.  Afterward, they always beg to hear it again and again!  They are fascinated by the beautiful illustrations and the language of this very moving story.  I have a CD with my version and Liam Neeson does a beautiful job of reading the book, along with superb background sounds and effects that will make you feel as if you had taken the journey yourself. You will not for a minute regret buying this book--I guarantee it will become a treasured favorite with your children!As an adult it will fill you with a wistful yearning to go back to your childhood and experience once again the magic of being a child.	2001-10-17
US	49230368	R3G17VPZJBNQB9	0439149029	683039526	For the Children: Life Lessons From  Pope John Paul Ii: Life Lessons From Pope John Paul Ii	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Message of Hope and Peace for Our Youth	This book is one of hope and inspiration for all children of the world.  It consists of passages taken directly from speeches given by Pope John Paul the II to children and youth groups around the world.  The book is geared toward elementary school children of the Catholic faith, but the words will speak to any heart.  Each page has a heading, such as &quot;Peace,&quot; &quot;Love,&quot; &quot;Family,&quot; &quot;Faith,&quot; and an excerpt from one of the Pope's speeches.  There is also an accompanying photo of young children (often depicted with the Pope himself or in the midst of typical religious activities).  This is a book that is meant to be read aloud to your child and shared together, as you talk about the meaning of the words within.  I find &quot;For the Children&quot; to be especially apt today, in light of the unfortunate tragedies that have befallen our nation and world.  One of my favorite passages states:  &quot;I say to you, with all the love I have for you,...do not listen to voices which speak the language of hatred, revenge, retaliation....Love life, respect life in yourself and others...do not think that courage and strength are proved by killing and destruction...true courage lies in working for peace.&quot; The book also talks about the unconditional love that God has for everyone, about hope for the future, and about praying for peace and harmony in our world.  Pope John Paul II is a very wise man, one of the biggest peacemakers of our time.  I have a lot of respect for him as a person.I would encourage any parent to buy this book to share with their family and share the message of love and peace found therein.	2001-10-17
US	49230368	R2VFIWOD3Z084F	0743227093	15813420	Madonna: An Intimate Biography	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Interesting to Read, But Nothing Too Earthshattering...	Having been a fan of Madonna for almost 20 years (my God, has it really been that long?!) there was no question in my mind as to whether or not I was going to buy this book when I first saw it on the shelf in the bookstore.  I couldn't wait to read it!  Now that I've devoured the book in just a few short hours, I have to say it was worth buying, mainly as another addition to my extensive collection of all things Madonna!I was not overly impressed by much of the information gleaned from this book.  There were many passages that were already very familiar to me, coming almost directly from other older interviews and magazine articles that have been quoted many times before. The author himself claims that the last time he interviewed Madonna was in 1987, so... you kind of have to take what he says about her with a grain of salt. There were also passages that I somehow doubted the truth of, passages that seemed embellished or even made up.  How was this author privy to intimate or personal conversations or incidents between Madonna and only one other person?  If they were true, I would have to wonder what kind of people Madonna is friends with or employs that so many of them would go out of their way to relate personal information about her to some guy writing an unauthorized book about her! Many of his sources are people like Camille(did somebody say sour grapes???)Barbone or some of her dancers from her BLond Ambition Tour. But, whatever! I have no actual way of judging the veracity of any of his &quot;sources,&quot; either named or anonymous.  That said, I would have to say that Madonna is portrayed in this book as having quite a lot of notches in her famed Boy-Toy belt, as the book goes into great detail of her supposed conquests with men. One is led to believe that Madonna has an almost insatiable appetite for sex!  Many passages also portray her as being rude, childish, and even cruel to most of the people around her.  How does a person who treats everyone in sucha shabby manner, as the book implies,  have such a successful and long-standing career? A bit of a mystery to me...   Perhaps many of the sources for these parts of the book are simply disgruntled ex-employees, jilted &quot;friends,&quot; or money-hungry hangers-on who didn't mind making a few things up for the extra cash?  One never knows...  There WERE parts of the book that DO portray Madonna in a more human light, more of a likeable person. It was these parts that I found to be the most interesting, as opposed to the more tabloid-like tattling in other parts of the book. You probably will not find anything too earthshattering in the way of revelations about Madonna as you read this book. Most of it appears to be re-hashed from old interviews, as I said before.  (How very convenient that it was published in the U.S. just as Madonna was embarking upon her first world tour since the Girlie Show! Nothing like good timing when you want to ride the coattails of someone else's fame, eh??) It does lead me to the realization that no &quot;tell-all&quot; or &quot;intimate biography&quot;  can truly capture the essence of who a person really is.  A person is so much more than who they are made to appear as on paper, and sometimes to try to do so is to trivialize that person.  If you buy the book, read it only for fun and be sure to take most of what you read with a grain of salt. Light-weight reading for those hot summer days when you would rather be floating on a raft in the water than working!	2001-08-01
US	49230368	R2OM69GLRH8Z5X	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Another good one from Maeve Binchy!	I enjoy Maeve Binchy's writing; I've been hooked ever since I read &quot;Circle of Friends.&quot; Ms. Binchy does not disappoint with &quot;Tara Road.&quot;  It is the story of Ria,  an Irish woman who marries young and  selflessly  stays at home as a housewife, cooking, cleaning, and taking care of the children for her husband while he goes out and makes the money.  Ria willingly and lovingly puts her all into what she does for the sake of her husband and children, whom she cherishes above all else in her life.  Hers is a happy life life surrounded by family and friends, laughter and smiles.  Naively, Ria believes that because she is happy and satisfied with her life, that her husband is too.  Her husband, Danny, is quite an actor, as we soon find out.  He pretends that he is satisfied with the life he has made with Ria and puts on quite a good show of it.  Ria never suspects a thing for 15 years. Come to find out, her husband has been having extramarital affairs behind her back (and with various &quot;friends&quot; of hers) betraying her, and hiding secrets ever since they were first married.  The book goes back and forth between all of the many characters in the story, giving you an omniscient view as you read about the characters' lives.I won't tell any more of the story's plot line.  I will say that it is an interesting book, almost like a soap opera with all that is going on and all the little subplots. If you pick up this book, it will hard to put it down!  A great beach read for the summer!	2001-06-08
US	49230368	R15B47H7726KW0	0449213358	241253921	Hawaii	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Master Storyteller!	Having read several books by James Michener, I must say that &quot;Hawaii&quot; is my absolute favorite! It's length may be formidable to those of you who are not used to reading novels beyond 300 pages (this one is over 1,000), but don't let its daunting size scare you! This book is incredible and amazing!  It is a fictionalized story that is intermeshed with truthful accounts of the entire history of Hawaii, from the very beginnings of Hawaii as an actual land formation erupting from beneath the sea, to its induction into statehood.  This book spans quite a long time period, and it pays homage to the political, social, religious, and commercial workings and atmospheres of and relating to Hawaii during this span. This book touches on everyone and everything from Hawaiian royalty to New England Christian missionaries, from pineapple and sugar cane farmers out in the fields and in their shacks to the unique blending of the Oriental with the Polynesian cultures that make up the people of Hawaiian. It does not take place solely on the island of Hawaii, but travels to the far reaches of China and Japan, as well as to the continental United States and out over the open ocean.It is a historical fiction novel that almost makes you forget that its characters are not real people!  This story will sweep you away with its descriptions of the island and its very special history.  Many other reviewers said that they found the beginning (where James Michener describes the formation of the island from an underwater volcano to an actual island) to be boring -- this is far from my opinion!  I found it incredibly interesting and very educational. After reading this novel, I was so impressed with Michener's writing and the breadth of his knowledge! You will definitely want to read more of his books.  Don't miss out on this one, though!	2001-06-08
US	49230368	R3BE65ZIS3RLMR	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Whoo-Hooo Witchy Woman!	Merrick is the story of a young woman of color who belongs to the infamous Mayfair family and, although far removed from the so-called &quot;white Mayfairs,&quot; is quite the witch in her own right.  I enjoyed reading this book because it brought together many of the characters from Rice's previous vampire novels, such as Louis, Lestat, David, and Claudia.  For someone who is not an Anne Rice fan, you will definitely want to read some of her previous books before reading this one.  If you don't, you may be a little confused.  For those of us who are Rice fans and have read many of her books, it's like old home week when you open the pages of this book.    The basic plot of the story is that Louis is feeling sorry for himself and pining for his vampire companion of old, Claudia.  In an attempt to make Louis happy, David contacts his ex-lover and old friend Merrick, a very powerful Voodoo witch, to ask if she will conjure up the spirit of Claudia for Louis to see one last time. To find out what happens from there, you must read the book, because I will not give away the rest of the story!  The story does not encompass a very lengthy period of time; however, the story is told in flashbacks by David, and these flashbacks tell the story of who Merrick is and how she came to be associated with David and the Talamasca starting in her childhood and ending in the present time.    While this book is not quite as lavish in its language and descriptions as some her previous novels, Anne Rice nevertheless does a fine job with this story. I would recommend it to all!	2001-06-02
US	49230368	R2NUFLAYHMWUD5	0425130711	680854800	Cold Fire	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Psychological Thriller!	This was one of Dean Koontz's better books that I have read!  There are several reasons for that.    1.  There are NO talking or ESP-possessing dogs in this novel.<br />   2.  People do not speak in goofy alliteration, monosyllabic        utterances, or surfer lingo.       3.  It is a quick read with a lot of fast-paced action and        very little descriptive nonsense in it.<br />   4.  It is a psychological thriller with an unexpected twist.<br />Parts of this novel are predictable, if you've read a lot of Koontz novels before; however, I was pleased with the book on the whole.  It made for some suspenseful reading and it was very enjoyable.  An oldie, but a goodie!	2001-05-30
US	49230368	R205RQD7T7ZCFZ	0316781010	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Things that make you go , HMMM.......	&quot;Fortune's Rocks&quot; is a story about a fifteen year old girl named Olympia who falls in &quot;love&quot; with a middle-aged man.  The man just happens to be her father's friend and a distinguished doctor/author. To me, Olympia was displaying some sort of an adolescent puppy-love type of crush on the man, but the book makes it out to be this huge, passionate, once-in-a-lifetime love affair.  That was a little hard to believe.  Harder still to believe was that the doctor(Haskell) fell instantaneously in love with Olympia upon his first sight of her!       The doctor basically blows off his beautiful wife and their three children, as well as his distinguished career, to have furtive, unprotected sexual encounters with this young girl(who, I might add, is only 3 years older than his older daughter). That pretty much grossed me out. The guy completely took advantage of Olympia! The portrayal of Haskell as a loving and caring man, sacrificing his all for his true love Olympia sickened me! He didn't love her -- he  was looking for a little action from a nubile young chickie!       When Olympia's parents and Haskell's wife find out about the affair, they break it up.  Olympia is sent to her room (literally) for months on end and Haskell is sent into exile by his wife.  Of course, Olympia ends up having Haskell's love-child.The child is taken away from her, only to have Olympia  become reunited with her child years later.  I didn't particularly like the way Haskell just disappears out of Olympia's life for nearly a decade and then suddenly just reappears out of the blue.  And the fact that he ends up marrying her just didn't sit too well with me.  It didn't seem believeable.        Olympia was a naive adolescent with a teenybopper's crush on the handsome older man.  Haskell was a man going through delayed adolescence and thinking with his you-know-what instead of his brain.        The reason I gave this story 3 stars instead of 2 was because it was fairly well-written (even though I found the plot to be somewhat unbelieveable and a little tacky).      I read an account similar to this recently:  it was a newspaper story from my hometown describing a 42-year old male teacher who was having sexual encounters with a willing 13- year-old student.  The difference?  In real life, the guy was put in jail on lewd and lascivious acts with a minor and rape charges.  Hmmm........	2001-02-02
US	49230368	REEDTIH7J9PP5	0684865742	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tis a jolly good book!	&quot;Tis&quot; is the memoir of  Frank McCourt, a struggling young immigrant from Ireland, who comes to New York to be in the city of his dreams. He isn't quite sure of himself or of what he wants to do in America, and he stumbles drunkenly through his life until he decides that he wants to become a teacher.  The book details Mr. McCourt's personal struggle with alcohol, money,job woes, his family, and trying to fit into a WASP world.  The book takes place between 1949 and the mid-1980's, so it spans quite a large amount of time. I really enjoyed reading this book because of the larger than life personality of Frank McCourt.  His character comes through loud and clear, fairly leaping off every page! He's not a person that I can really relate to; neither is he a person that I would like to have as a friend. In fact, there were times when I even thought the guy sounded like a bit of a jerk (for example: the way he describes his relationship with his mother and the way he describes her after her death, as well as the way he LAUGHS at his father's funeral!) However, he was always an interesting character and it was quite unique to read the words coming out of his mouth. My favorite parts in the story include the accounts of when he was in the army and of his very early days in New York City.  Two parts that I think he could have developed a little better and could have gone into more detail about were his marriage and his relationship with his daughter. Also, one thing puzzled me about this man - - why did he become a teacher when he seemed to truly hate his students and teaching in general? That was somewhat of a mystery to me.  It seems he could have done something else with his life that would have been more meaningful to him and made him happier. Oh, well.  C'est la vie! I did enjoy the book and would whole heartedly recommend it to others, along with its sequel, &quot;Angela's Ashes.&quot;	2001-01-27
US	49230368	R37Z9AJGMUS2JV	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Implausible Nonsense	I almost didn't finish reading this book because I kept stopping to laugh!  No, the book wasn't actually that funny; it was the style of writing that kept me roaring! Is it possible for someone to be such a horrible writer...and still have books on the best-seller list????? The dopey descriptions, myriad monotonous metaphors, and puerile puns were so gosh-darned goofy that I felt as though I was drowning in a sea of stupidity and someone forgot to throw me a life preserver. Oh, and did I mention the absolutely asinine and astrocious use of alliteration sprinkled liberally throughout this torrid tome like Love-My-Carpet on a stinky shag rug?(Are you laughing yet?  This is actually how Dean Koontz writes--can you blame me for chuckling?)  As for the plot and characters of this book, there is very little to say.  If you can wade through the nonsense Dean Koontz makes of the English language and its various literary devices, you'll find that the plot is just as implausible as his writing style. The characters were very cardboard and unreal.  The whole crazy psycho doctor/wierd lacrimonial duct obsession/Esp-possessing dog/psychogenic conflict thing was just absurd! And why did it take Mr. Koontz soooooooo long to tell this story?  It just dragged on and on; I wanted action and all this guy could give me was mutilated metaphors that missed the mark and made me want to vomit vociferously in a vile and vituperous manner. If you felt as though you needed a thesaurus to read this book review and wondered why I couldn't just write in a more direct and realistic way, then don't read &quot;False Memory.&quot; It's just more of the same.	2001-01-14
US	49230368	R33Y1FMX7KFTO1	0060956291	835015844	Clear Springs: A Family Story	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Memories of Bygone Times	I really enjoyed this book a lot! I didn't just read it; I pored over it and savored every word. &quot;Clear Springs&quot; is the family history of Bobbie Ann Mason, a woman born and raised in Kentucky.  It explores not only her own memories of growing up in rural Kentucky, but also those of her mother and grandmother--three generations of women.  The details are wonderful.  Reading this book makes you feel as if these women are people you know - maybe your neighbors or relatives in your own family. This book takes you back to a time when life was simpler in some ways, but more complicated in other ways. I especially enjoyed the photos of Bobbie's family members in the middle of the book.  I would be reading the story and then go flip back to the pictures to envision these people in my mind as I thought about their lives. It really brought the characters to life in a more vivid way. What a valuable way of preserving her memories of a people, a place, and a way of life gone by in the words of this book!  With all of the millions of people in the United States, one might think their own life is fairly insignificant; however, when you read this book, one realizes that everyone has a story to tell, their own personal history from their special era in which they lived. This book is like a little slice of America.  I recommend it to all!  Happy Reading!	2000-10-23
US	49230368	R1CV6SEV4O6VJO	0967378508	692636503	Growing Up Brady: I Was a Teenage Greg, Special Collector's Edition	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Greg and ...Carol??? .. Sitting in a Tree.......	Although this is not a book, that you will want to read cover to cover (unless you are a die-hard Brady fanatic), this is an interesting account of the behind-the-scenes Brady drama.  I found some parts to be rather amusing(especially the ones where Barry claims to be such a heart throb among the ladies of the Brady cast--keep on dreaming, Greg!) It mostly provided me with interesting tidbits of decades-old gossip from one of my favorite childhood shows.  Good fodder if you're ever in a Brady trivia contest, I guess.It was a pretty decent book, though nothing earthshattering. I just hope Greg, oops I mean Barry, can move forward with his life and find some new ideas for his career.  One can only live off of one's former glory for so long before it gets old.	2000-09-26
US	49230368	R3BSC2JFN3T0U0	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A So-So Sob Story	I thought this book would be better than it really was.  After all, they had made a movie of it (which I did not see) so it must have been pretty good, right?  Well, not exactly.  There were several things I didn't like about this book.  One was the character of Theresa.  What kind of person gets so taken in by a letter in a bottle she finds at the beach that she tracks the guy down?  Sounds like a stalker to me!  Also, she used her company time and lied about her intentions to try to track the guy down and find out where he lived! How unprofessional.  The second thing that I disliked about this story was the character of Garrett.  The guy was still not over his wife's death.  WHY did Theresa think he was such a hot catch? She should have thrown THAT fish right back into the sea! (Then again, maybe two such dysfunctional people actually were meant for each other -- just don't try to pass it off as the love story of the century). The third thing that I did not like about the story was the ending.  Without giving it away, I'll just say it was very depressing.  Geez!The whole thing was like Sap City with a Stalker-Like Twist.  Think I'll skip the movie version if the book was this bad!	2000-09-26
US	49230368	R1CSFUH5E7WFD2	0312241135	148589839	The Lighthouse Keeper: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Uplifting!	If you are in the mood for a book that espouses goodness, traditional values, and the power of real love, then look no further than this book.  It is the tale of a World War Two veteran who has become a lighthouse keeper.  In this book, he tells the history of himself, his true love, and of his family through the use of flashbacks. There are some sad moments in the story; however, the overall tone is one of inspiration and uplifting feelings. One of the things that I liked about this book was how it intimated that one does not have to &quot;be religious&quot; in order to &quot;be spiritual.&quot;  I also liked the symbolism of the lighthouse portrayed in the story. The ending was especially poignant, and will be sure to bring tears to the eyes of all who read it. I highly recommend this book to readers of all ages.	2000-09-26
US	49230368	R3F2DU8GLZK8V6	0060192119	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as A Girl	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Freaked Me Out!	Whoa!  This book was quite an interesting read! I had never heard of this true life story until I came across this book a couple of months ago in my  book club.  I was totally shocked by the events in this story, and I read  with a mixture of fascination and revulsion as the book described the  circumcision attempt and subsequent charring of this child's genitalia in  quite vivid details. The events in this story were almost beyond belief. A  young boy is brought up as a girl as a result of a serious medical error  and a doctor's extreme arrogance.  The fact that this is still a relatively  common procedure that is performed today when doctors face babies born as  hermaphrodites and children with genital defects really astounded me. It  almost seemed like science fiction.  I could not believe that the so-called  &quot;doctor&quot; who advocated this procedure and put this boy through  such mental torture is one of the most respected &quot;experts&quot; in his  field!  And that most of what is &quot;known&quot; in the area of genital  reassignment is based on this psycho's &quot;research!&quot; I really felt  sorry for David (the main character), and when I saw him on Oprah I felt  even more so.  The doctors in his life not only mutilated his body, they  also messed with his mind. This book is a sad and angering commentary on  the medical field and their over-zealous, arrogant attempts to play God.  With all of the mistakes they make in medicine, it really makes you wonder  whom you can trust.	2000-08-30
US	49230368	R3SJJK5VUUC5B5	158195008X	821991146	Cracks	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Diabolical !	What evil lurks in the hearts of adolescent girls? Not exactly what you'd expect when you first open the covers of this book.  On the surface it  seems to be about some rich older women coming back to the boarding school  of their youth for a reunion.  It quickly turns into a reminiscience of  some truly diabolical deeds committed by twelve young girls, their sexually  depraved swimming coach, and their seemingly senile and doddering old  headmistress. The ending was totally not what I expected; it kept me  guessing right up until the last chapter. I won't spoil the story by  telling you the rest of the plot, but I still had one question about where  Fiamma (one of the main characters) had disappeared to when I finished  reading the book.  I went back to the very first couple of chapters and  reread them immediately.  In a very subtle way the answer is revealed on  the first few pages! Oh, My, God! It makes you realize how truly evil these  girls and their teachers were. The depth of what's really going on is  astounding.  This is a quick read, very suspenseful, and well worth your  time.	2000-08-30
US	49230368	R2TM3S8R6TNMKN	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Read This Book!	This book is NOT fiction - unfortunately the events and the people in this  book are very real. &quot;Hiroshima&quot; follows the lives of six  survivors of the atomic bomb from the hours preceeding the explosion on  August 6, 1945, to the decades afterwards. The survivors detailed in this  book include a housewife, a German priest, two doctors, a young working  woman, and a reverend. The details were superb, and I learned a lot of  facts of which I was previously unaware. The story tells of the physical  intensity of the bomb, the horrible, crippling symptoms experienced by the  victims both at the time of the bomb and afterwards, and of the treatment  experienced by the victims of the bomb.  One of the things that most  shocked me was the treatment of the &quot;hibakusha&quot; by their own  country based on the  Japanese government's reluctance to take  responsibility for these victims.  Everyone should read this book and  educate themselves about this historical event (especially those of us who  were not alive during that time period).  It is sobering and frightening to  think that it could certainly happen again anywhere in the world due to  increased nuclear capabilites by many countries on this planet.	2000-08-10
US	49230368	R3BLGED4Z9VP1M	0140434895	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A True Classic!	I love this book!   This is one of my all-time favorite books ever.  I had to read it eons ago when I was in ninth grade, and now (14 years later) I am still enjoying it.  Every few years I take this one down from my  bookshelf to revisit.  This is the story of Pip, a small orphaned boy  living in poverty in the  English countryside with his much older sister  and her husband. Pip meets a convict in a graveyard one damp morning and  helps him out in the form of some vittles and an iron file. Later in the  story, Pip moves from poverty to being a &quot;gentleman&quot; due to the  influence of a mysterious, anonymous benefactor. This book tells of his  adventures and how Pip's expectations guide him through life. Towards the  end of the story, Pip finds out that reality is sometimes very different  from what we expect it to be. The characters are what really make this book  stand out.  Charles Dickens is a master of character development, and his  descriptions of Miss Havisham, Wemmick, Joe, and the others is brilliant!  The dialogue is great, with the words written the way a commoner would have  spoken in England in the 1800's.  Another thing I really liked was how all  of the characters are inter-related to each other in ways that you may not  discover until you get to the end of the novel.This novel will make you  laugh and it might make you sad, but it is always entertaining.  If you are  in high school and reading this book for the first time for English class,  keep at it! It may seem difficult at first if you are not used to Dickens,  but this book is well worth it!  It is truly a gem.	2000-07-30
US	49230368	R3GRK39Q4UIAKX	0553106651	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Seize the Thesaurus!	This book was okay. It had a decent plot and was suspenseful;however, certain things really bothered me as I was reading this book. One of those things was the supposed &quot;surfer&quot; lingo that the characters spoke.  I cringed every time any of the characters opened their mouths. I haven't  heard the word &quot;gnarly&quot; used since the 1980's -- and even then it  was only in Valley-Girl-Speak! Like, fer shurr!And another thing that  annoyed me was the way the characters spoke in these terse little one-word  lines.  Dean Koontz fills up entire pages with these little  &quot;dialogues&quot; between Chris and Sasha and that other guy (I can't  even remember his name). Newsflash! People usually speak in complete  sentences when having a conversation with others. If the main character is  supposed to be so smart, how come he talks like an idiot?  I mean, the  plot was pretty fantastic (meaning unbelieveable), but the characters were  even more so! I started reading Dean Koontz books a few years ago when I  joined a book club, and I generally liked them. After a few books though,  they all seem the same. I'm kind of disappointed in that. Maybe if Dean  Koontz could break out of his formulaic writing style, his books would hold  a bit more of a lasting appeal to his readers. No offense, Dude.	2000-07-27
US	49230368	R3DSRKVG0B65EX	0886878470	627322263	World Almanac and Book of Facts 2000	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Treasure Trove of Knowledge	If there is any fact that you want to look up, this book has it right here at your fingertips.  It covers a wide variety of interests from sports to politics, from entertainment to demographic information and  statistics.There is a full-color section in the middle with maps and flags.  It is well organized with a thorough index, and it is easy to find the  information you are looking for. This would be a good book for adults as  well as children. This is a great reference book that we buy each year in  our family(it is updated on a yearly basis). I recommend it to all!	2000-07-25
US	49230368	R1N5VOEU6JM9B9	0671774670	305287579	Mother of Pearl (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Boring!	I originally wanted to read this book because it was one of Oprah's book picks and a real favorite of Oprah's.  However, after reading the first chapter of this book, I had to put it down.  Just because Oprah recommends  something, doesn't mean the rest of us are going to like it (although I  have to say that this is one of the few Oprah Book Club picks that I didn't  enjoy). I just could not get into this story.  The names of the characters,  the way they talked, and the plot of  this story totally turned me off. I  know I'm not the only one who feels this way, because I've talked to other  people who also intensely disliked the book. It looks good, but once you  open it up you'll be convinced otherwise. Don't blow your money on this  one.	2000-07-25
US	49230368	RVL0A6F4YC23D	0316789976	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	4	28	31	N	N	A Quick and Easy Read!	This was a very enjoyable book.  I read it in about two days.  The plot was pretty suspenseful, and the way it was written really hooks you in and makes you want to keep on reading!  I liked the historical references and  murder-mystery plot, and I found the fictional parts of the novel to be  interesting as well. I find the author to be a very good writer and look  forward to reading more books by Anita Shreve.  If I could change one thing  about the book, it would be to make the transition between the fictional  character Jean's thoughts and the historical character Maren's tale a bit  more seamless.  At times the switchover was very choppy and abrupt, without  even a change of paragraph.  Of course, perhaps the author wrote it this  way because she was trying to show how intertwined and tangled-up Jean was  becoming in Maren's tale, and how Jean couldn't separate her own emotional  angst from the historical character's due to the fact that she identified  so closely with her. This book was about love, jealousy, choices, and  betrayal (but not in the way that you'd think!).  I believe many women  would enjoy this book and I recommend it to all.	2000-07-18
US	49230368	RD2I1NS8UNFOL	0399145990	217600181	The River King	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Rose Hips and Silver Fish	This was a great book!   It takes place in the small town of Haddan, Massachusetts, and it is the tale of small-town secrets, innocence, guilt, and the unspeakable crimes committed by a group of rich,upper-crust  boarding school boys. Of course there are a few ghosts thrown in for good  measure, because where would a small New England town be without its  requisite ghost stories?  The characters were very interesting, and I liked  the way the story was told from the point of view of many, rather than one.  One of the things that I liked best about the book was its rich descriptive  language, especially that of the geographical area.  I could hear the  chirping of the crickets in the summer night, smell the loamy dampness of  the river's soil, and see the lush green fiddleheads growing by the  riverbanks as Alice Hoffman described it in her story.  I grew up in rural,  small-town New England, and reading her descriptions made me yearn to go  back there again. I have read other Alice Hoffman novels, including  &quot;Practical Magic,&quot; and this was even better in my opinion.  I  also thought this would make a great movie.  Couldn't you just see Aidan  Quinn playing the blue-eyed Abel Grey? I highly recommend this book to  everyone out there.  I think you will like it.  It's wicked awesome!	2000-07-18
US	49230368	R1BS8NBI8J0MLV	0679600671	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Modern Library)	Books	2	17	32	N	N	Wading Through the Muck	I am a huge fan of the classics, and one of my goals is to read as many classic novels as possible.  I have a shelf full of them in my house!  However, when I sat down to read &quot;The Wings of the Dove,&quot; I found  myself wondering what in the world this author was trying to say.  Henry  James writes in a very thick, wordy manner, and many of his sentences are  so long and convoluted that they take up an entire half of one page!I would  read the same sentence over and over again, going,&quot;Huh? &quot; I've  attempted to read this novel three times now since acquiring the book and  have not made it past page 69. The basic plot of the story sounds very  enticing and I know it must be a good story.  The problem is that reading  this book is like reading a foreign language.  You know it's in English;  you even know what all of the words mean!  But the way Mr. James puts these  words together into thoughts and sentences is so dense you feel as though  you're wading through the muck and you've forgotten your overshoes.  I kept  thinking that this would be a great book if it was written in modern  English, and I kept mentally rewording all of the sentences as to how I  would say it if I were writing the book. Finally, I got frustrated and  relegated it back to my bookshelf where it's been sitting for the past  year, unopened.  This is definitely not a book you'd want to take with you  on your summer vacation;if you read this, you'll think you've taken a job  as a foreign correspondant and they've forgotten to pay you! Don't torture  yourself!	2000-07-11
US	49230368	R2KNZDY1XCNJC4	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Juicy Little Morsel!	I first read &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; about seven or eight years ago. Since then, I have become a big fan of Anne Rice's novels, and this book in particular has become one of my favorites. &quot;The Vampire Lestat&quot; is an exquisitely worded novel about a mortal who becomes a vampire after killing a pack of wolves in the forests in pre-Revolutionary France. In the book, Lestat narrates his &quot;life&quot; after transformation. Those of you who are not familiar with Anne Rice's style of writing might be rolling your eyes right now and saying, &quot;Oh, brother! Not another cheesy vampire novel?&quot; Well, you would be wrong! Rice writes in a way that makes your mouth salivate for more of her juicy morsels. Her words drip with richness and clarity. When she describes Lestat feeding upon his victims, Magnus' leap into the fire, or Armand's underground coven, you can envision her images so clearly it is as if you are actually there. Her language is so lush and awash with beauty that it seduces you and blinds you to the atrocities of the events within this book. This is not a cheapie dime-store horror novel or even a romantic love story. It is a seduction of your imaginaiton. Succumb to it and read this book!	2000-07-11
US	49230368	R2K1OSQPWZQ9DY	0818908041	681037751	The Mystery of the Shroud of Turin: New Scientific Evidence	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Modern Enigma From Ancient Times	Are you interested in mysteries?  Does exploring the past as it pertains  to the historical figure of Jesus intrigue you? Are you a skeptic who tends  to want scientific evidence of things you don't understand?  If so, then  you should read this book. &quot;The Mystery of the Shroud of Turin&quot;  is one of the most informative and thought-provoking books I have read. I  live in the same general region of John Iannone, the author of this book,  and I recently had the unique opportunity to attend one of his lectures of  the shroud and speak with him in person. Much of what Mr. Iannone covers in  his seminars is also covered in great detail in this book.  The book  follows the historical journey of the Shroud of Turin (the purported burial  cloth of Jesus) from its origins in the Middle East to Europe in the middle  ages and, finally, to its place in modern times. The book describes in a  careful, organized way the many scientific tests and examinations to which  the cloth has been subjected, both in decades past and in recent times.  It  includes timelines, maps, and many astounding, close-up photographs of the  shroud. The details are superb. The book is written in a very  matter-of-fact, easy to read manner; it is definitely NOT boring! (No  dried-up dissertations here!) Whether you believe or disbelieve in the  veracity of the Shroud of Turin, this book poses a very fascinating look at  an icon from centuries past.	2000-07-08
US	49230368	R71E59H1SHGZT	0671781502	609963678	Keith Haring: The Authorized Biography	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Keith Haring: Radiant Child	I first became interested in Keith Haring as an artist when I saw a  collection of his work at the Tampa Museum of Art in the very early 1990's.  By that time, Keith had already passed away; however, he left behind a  very large legacy of his remarkable work.  I decided I had to know more  about this man whose colorful pop art had caught my eye, so  I went out and  bought the book, &quot;Keith Haring: The Authorized Biography.&quot; This  book is awesome!!  It is part autobiography, part miniature art gallery.  Keith's story is told in a very intimate, revealing way, and it really  makes you feel as if you are right there in the middle of his life in New  York in the 80's.  All of the famous artists and people from the  entertainment world that comprised Keith's social circle are also included  in the book, offering up their observations and anecdotes of Keith Haring,  his lifestyle, and his art. There are many personal photographs of the  artist at work and with his friends included in the book, as well as  eye-popping photos of some of Keith's famous works.  Often Keith Haring is  called a &quot;grafitti artist.&quot; When you read this book, you will  realize that he is more than just that; Keith Haring was a down-to-earth  man whose stunning and sometimes controversial art holds a universal appeal  and a bittersweet social commentary of life as he knew it. Art lovers -  don't miss out on this one!	2000-07-08
US	49230368	R242C0MXP6QU6D	1579120776	952010943	The Doll House Book	Books	5	28	29	N	N	This book begs to be opened!	This was a very cool book!  The first thing you notice when you pick up this book is that the cover is shaped just like a house, and the book's opening is right down the middle.  It feels like you are opening up the  doors to a real dollhouse. Inside, there are full color illustrations of  dolls, dollhouses, and furniture on nearly every page.  The details are  phenomenal!  If you are a collector or builder of dollhouses,this is your  book!  I really enjoyed looking at the pictures and reading about the  privately owned dollhouses and collections that are featured in this book.  Some of the more unique houses shown in the book are the Kupjack rooms, the  Palace of Versailles, and the Shoe House.  Those of you who attend  miniature shows or are a member of NAME will recognize the names Brooke  Tucker, Ned Kellogg, and  Marcia Backstrom as miniaturists featured between  these pages. This book is a wonderful addition to the collection of  minature hobbyists everywhere.	2000-07-04
US	49230368	RMEFN7442PARJ	0002552574	257957992	I Dream of Madonna: Women's Dreams of the Goddess of Pop	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Theater of the Absurd	This book is a wacky little collection of women's dreams of Madonna and some very odd collages featuring photos of Madonna mish-moshed together with drawings, artwork, etc...  The text wasn't all that interesting(ya  just gotta wonder- are there really THAT many people out there dreaming of  Madonna every night? ).  It was really the collages, with their little  oddities and quirkiness that made me look at the book more than once.  If  you are a die-hard Madonna fan and absolutely HAVE to have every item ever  made about Madonna, then you should get this book--if only to say that you  own it in your collection.  Otherwise, I wouldn't reccommend it to the  average book consumer.	2000-07-04
US	49230368	RXGKVDJJXUVMZ	1558533834	216208214	Cooking With Friends	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Could this book BE any more user-FRIEND-ly!	This book was awesome!  I am not much of a chef and I really don't enjoy cooking very much; however, I just had to have this book! I bought it mainly for all of the funny quotes from the show. It was fun to read the  witty dialogues printed on the sides of the pages and try to guess which  episode they were from.  Also, all of the great photos of the cast from the  show really made this book a must-have collector's item. I have yet to  actually cook anything from this book, so I can't comment on the taste of  any of these recipies.  The recipie with the most interesting name is  &quot; Monkey-Lovin' Mocha Mouthfuls.&quot; Now, if only I could get  someone else to cook for me, THAT would be perfection!	2000-07-04
