US	49255792	R100JJ4ITUS5NK	0375760628	447916207	Slave to Fashion: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Couldn't put it down	This is a really good satire, both of the fashion world and of the whole `Brit chick lit' genre. It's a simple story of the rise and fall of Katie Castle. I loved the interaction between Katie and Peggy Moss in the first section of the book. I admit that I found the first chapter or two slow, but by the time Katie and Peggy were in Paris, I was hooked. I thought Katie was actually a well rounded character. She wasn't a nice person, by any means, but I liked that about her - she appealed to my dark side. Katie could say and do things that I'd never dream of, so the book provided a good escape in that sense. I also liked that she did have something of a conscience (albeit not a well developed one), she did learn from her mistakes, and she had a degree of self awareness. I found myself wanting to see her succeed. The first part of the book developed the relationships well enough that I genuinely felt bad for her mistake, and I wanted to see her win back the boyfriend. Campbell manages to take a woman who is very different from most of the people who read the book, and yet make her someone we could relate to. Who hasn't messed up royally in their lives? She is able to find the insights and morals in the story. There are no profoundly original truths written here - it's all stuff we already know, on some level, but the reminders work. It's got just enough depth to be interesting, but it's not so serious that it comes across as pretentious.<br />The book wasn't absolutely perfect, of course. I thought some things happened too quickly and too easily, like the exposure of what Katie did, and even her ability to get back what she lost. I didn't like the ending - it was all just too easy. Some of the characters - particularly the men - were poorly developed. But those things are just minor complaints that keep the book from gaining full-fledged classic status. It's still better, funnier, and smarter than a lot of books available today. Worth a read!	2004-04-13
US	49255792	R21KPGI2AVZO5G	0312313616	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Misses the mark	I won't spend too much time recapping the plot, because others have done it, and really, it's a thin plot to begin with. It's just basically the story of the life of Katya. She is the ultimate narcissist, who treats everyone around her like crap. I thought the premise was amusing, as it seemed like it would be a good satire on the whole \\"Bridget Jones\\" thing. I did find the book engrossing when I started it; there is no doubt that the author has some writing skills. The pace is good, some of the jokes are funny, and the intelligence of the author (and the lead character, really - Katya's intelligence is about her only redeeming quality) do shine through. Some of the subplots - i.e. the foster child, Katya as birth coach, and a few other things, as gags. The book could be a good outlet for the reader's dark side. It just doesn't work in the end.<br />What's wrong with it? Katya is just someone I couldn't relate to at all. She's completely one dimensional. All the characters, in fact, are paper thin. Lang makes the mistake of thinking that satirical and stereotypical are synonymous. They aren't. In fact, the satire would've been even more pointed had the book been more well rounded. It also doesn't help that the situations in the book are just that - situations. There is really very little in the way of an ongoing story. Even the bits that worked, mentioned above, don't mesh together well enough to form a real story. The diary format also doesn't work here. What Lang is striving for - a good satire of the whole `Bridget' genre - is more effectively accomplished in Slave to Fashion. I'd suggest you just read that instead.	2004-04-13
US	49255792	R3AD870QUO2ICR	0609805681	52139561	Winning in the Game of Life: Self-Coaching Secrets for Success	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Solid	This is an interesting book for someone who is just starting on a personal improvement plan. The best part about it is that Gegax's approach is holistic - he really has a strong understanding of the connection between the mind, body and spirit. The writing style is smooth and the book is easy to read. The concepts all make sense and he gives a clear plan for readers to follow in applying his steps. The parts I found most useful were the first two sections, on personal mission statements and action planning. After that, I found the book was at turns too simplistic and too far out there for me.<br />The caution I would give people in reading this book is two-fold. First, Gegax writes in a very autobiographical style. I learned more about him and his personal trials and tribulations than I wanted to; I'm the type of reader who prefers more theory and fewer examples. Secondly, as someone who has already read Stephen Covey and a host of other self-help/health authors, I found that alot of what Gegax had to say was old news to me. <br />This isn't a bad self help book to have. Some people will really value having a book that encompasses physical, emotional and mental health, and the connection between them, in one volume. If you don't mind the oversimplifications that can result in trying to bring such a range of material together, and you're interested in these sorts of issues, you may find the book of value.	2004-03-19
US	49255792	R2FUY85U57WGTP	006019698X	59070187	The Grrl Genius Guide to Life: A 12 Step Program on How to Become a Grrl Genius, According to Me!	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not bad	This book is really funny in parts. The twelve step approach was a neat spin on the whole idea of women's empowerment; there was a nice satiric bite to the concept. Overall, the book does have some serious moments, in with the humor. The insights just aren't deep enough to really stick with the reader. The book is very easily disposable. She doesn't really have alot to say that hasn't been said before, and parts of the book drag, or are a bit more crude than I like. But the Krispy Kreme stuff is hilarious (I'm now desperate to try them!) and there were other parts where I definitely laughed, which I can't say about every humor book I've read. There are moments in this book where Michon's own Grrrl Genius shines through, but she can't seem to sustain it.<br />Worth it if you see it in a used book store or a garage sale, but don't go out of your way to track it down.	2004-03-19
US	49255792	R30VLLHX7ER4Q7	0451409256	208908626	Making Minty Malone	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Really funny!	I actually should, given my rating system, likely give this book only 3 stars. But it's better than The Trials of Tiffany Trott, to which I gave 4 stars.<br />The story has already been described - Minty gets dumped on her wedding day, and the book covers how she gets over that hurt. Right from the beginning, Wolfe had me hooked. She used flashbacks in the initial chapter to introduce me to the main character, so I was better able to empathize with her situation. Anyone who gets dumped like that deserves empathy, but in a more 'global' way. By the time Dom dumps Minty, I had a sense of 'knowing' her, so I cared more. I was invested in the outcome. I loved that Minty did grow as the book progressed, and that her growth didn't occur too quickly.<br />The secondary characters were hilarious, and more effectively fleshed out than in some books of this nature. I genuinely was interested in the people Minty worked with. Her family was hilarious, too. The subplots worked, in that they were there to flesh out Minty's character, without taking away from the main story. They helped show who Minty is, and why she behaves as she does. I found myself laughing out loud quite often, which I haven't been able to say about a novel of this sort in quite a while.<br />There were a few things I didn't like about the book - for example, I didn't think Joe was particularly well defined. I actually thought Wolfe may have rushed with the Minty/Joe relationship at some points. But overall, the book was so funny (I absolutely adored the last quarter), that those complaints were minor. If you like chick lit, light summer reading and/or British fiction, you definitely want to read this book.	2004-03-17
US	49255792	R3JL6YI5PTHNK9	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Over-hyped	Given all the buzz about this book, I was desperate to read it, and I was thrilled when a friend loaned it to me a few weeks ago. It wasn't bad - in fact, it was really good in some ways - but didn't live up to my expectations.<br />The book was easy to get in to; the beginning was really engaging. I thought the authors gave Nan a really clear voice. She seemed like a real person. Loved all the name dropping of fancy places in New York, which I've always wanted to visit. I thought the book was really funny in parts - some of the demands that Mrs. X placed on Nan were just bizarre. So in many ways it was effective satire. I also loved Nan's family. They provided a nice counterpoint to the insanity of her work situation. The storyline with Nan's boyfriend was surprisingly ineffective - if they'd stuck to her grandmother and parents, I'd have been happier.<BR> <BR>The problem was the book was a bit schizphrenic. At times it seemed like just a lighthearted novel wanting to poke fun at high society. But as we got to know Grayer, and watch Nan bond with him, we started to care about him and his situation. So, as the family fell apart, and we saw how he was suffering, I had this need for something more - a bit more depth, somehow. In the end I was left with this vague sense of dissatisfaction. The authors tried,  at times, to give the Mrs. X character a bit of depth and create a bit of sympathy for her, but it didn't work. I think the book might've been more effective if the authors hadn't bothered to give it the extra bit of seriousness, and stuck to writing an all out funny book, ala the Shopaholic series.<br />I do think this book is generally well written, and it is easy to read. It just isn't what I expected. So, bearing that in mind, I do think it's worth a look.	2004-03-17
US	49255792	R302WA5EP65FFW	0786868775	219867500	Positive Pushing: How to Raise a Successful and Happy Child	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Really good	As someone who works with children, and who is the aunt of a 5 year old, I'm always looking for good books on how to support children to be the best they can be. This one really hits the mark. The author has a sound grasp of the subject of achievement, which he demonstrates through the use of solid references, research, and personal examples via his clinical practice. He writes in a way that is clear and easy for readers to apply to their own life. As someone who coaches floor hockey, I've already begun to use some of his techniques in supporting some of the parents who take their pushing too far. The author strikes a nice balance between encouraging parents to ensure that children take opportunities to try different things, and forcing too many activities on to children. The use of lists at the end of each chapter to summarize key concepts and ideas is really useful.<br />I would caution readers that the author's skewering of the self esteem movement is simplistic, at best. He does seem to be moralizing here, and I found myself tuning out at times. I would also disagree with his statements on unconditional love. The problem is he is actually mislabelling 'approval' as love. Parents should love their children no matter what. Love is not a weapon to be used to ensure certain behaviour from a child. I always love my niece, which she knows. She also knows, however, that I don't always approve of her behaviour and/or choices, and what the consequences are if she crosses certain boundaries. The author sends really mixed messages, because for all his talk about the 'dangers of unconditional love', at other times he does seem to understand the need to separate one's feelings about a child's behavior and choices from one's feelings about the person as a whole. <br />Lastly, I confess to finding some of the chapters to be a bit long. I found I took breaks from the book because it felt like overload at times. But the author uses alot of subheadings, so there are numerous logical spots to 'take a break', so this this problem wasn't as annoying as some other books with long chapters.<br />This book has many useful ideas, and the subject is very worthwhile. Highly reccommended to all!	2004-03-17
US	49255792	RS1XXW59HNY8D	0553284347	184585252	Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life	Books	2	111	147	N	N	Proceed with caution	I picked this book up from a used book store mostly because, as as someone who does family support work and has worked with abused children, I felt compelled to read it - the book is considered a classic. It hasn't, at least to me, stood the test of time. It may still be worth reading for professionals just on the grounds I stated - because of the book's status as a classic, but I wouldn't reccommend it for people who are still working through abuse issues.<br />First, the strengths of the book. Forward uses alot of vignettes to illustrate her points. This technique is helpful for readers because it demonstrates that, despite what some of her critics have suggested, she doesn't consider every parent who has ever raised his/her voice to a child to be a toxic parent. She does know what real abuse is, and she provides good definitions, including some good checklists, to help determine it. Some of her advice is very practical, such as the need for counselling, and the use of techniques such as role play and letter writing. The book is fast paced and easy to  understand.<br />So why such a low grade? Forward is stuck on blaming parents for their mistakes. She wants to label all abusive parents as monsters, and many aren't. At times, Forward seems to have an understanding of family systems theory, but she then fails to utilize it to have some empathy for the conditions that created the abusive parents in the first place. I don't think her level of anger is particularly useful to victims. Anger can only get a person so far; eventually there must be healing. I also disagree, based on solid research, with her stance against forgiveness. Eventually, if victims don't forgive, they will remain under the control of the abuse/abuser. I don't think Forward really understands what forgiveness is - it has nothing to do with letting the abuser off the hook, or saying what they did was ok. To a lesser extent, I also disagree with Forward's assertion that confrontation is necessary in all cases. I think in some cases, just admitting to oneself what happened and acknowledging that you are not to blame is not only enough, it is the smartest, most productive course of action.<br />I realize that the majority of my criticisms of the book are based on my particular theoretical orientation as someone who works with children/families. Normally, I wouldn't necessarily take marks off in a rating based on that. The reason I've done so is because I think this book is marked toward people who are coming to grips with childhood abuse, and, depending upon where a person is in their process, I believe that Forward's approach could actually do damage. This is a book that, if it is to be read at all, should be read by therapists, counsellors, family support workers, child and youth care workers, and social workers should read, take what they consider to be of value, and use that information to help adults.all cases. I think in some cases, just admitting to oneself what happened and acknowledging that you are not to blame is not only enough, it is the smartest, most productive course of action.<br />I realize that the majority of my criticisms of the book are based on my particular theoretical orientation as someone who works with children/families. Normally, I wouldn't necessarily take marks off in a rating based on that. The reason I've done so is because I think this book is marked toward people who are coming to grips with childhood abuse, and, depending upon where a person is in their process, I believe that Forward's approach could actually do damage. This is a book that, if it is to be read at all, should be read by therapists, counsellors, family support workers, child and youth care workers, and social workers should read, take what they consider to be of value, and use that information to help adults.	2004-03-17
US	49255792	R13SC4NCKPT2C8	0385334524	874079655	Blast from the Past	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Proceed with caution	I wanted to love this book; I truly did. I fell in love with Elton's humor and political satire when I read Stark years ago. This book doesn't measure up. The pacing was great, and I confess there were times I had trouble putting the book down. I did find parts quite amusing, and, as a political junkie, I enjoyed the debate. <br />The problem I had was two-fold. First, I didn't think the story had enough depth. I found it frustrating that on one hand Elton seemed to be trying to tell a serious story about these two people who loved each other, but couldn't find a way to bridge the gap between their two vastly different worlds, and on the other hand, he was just doing a broad satire of left wing vs right wing politics, with a stereotypical stalker thrown in for good measure. He didn't give the characters enough depth to make me fully care about the love story, so why did he bother with all those flashbacks? Yet, in giving me the background, he seemed to almost want me to care about the characters - he just didn't give me enough to allow me to buy in. Also, I saw the ending coming a mile away. Elton is capable of better than that. In general, I don't think there was enough to the story to make a full length book - this would've worked alot better as a short story.<br />I know it sounds like I'm being harsh, and I probably am. I did enjoy the book, it just wasn't memorable, and it wasn't up to the standards I've come to have for a novelist the calibre of Ben Elton. Anybody who isn't already a fan may well read this book and wonder what the fuss is all about.	2003-11-05
US	49255792	R3QH3LKVO4NAU2	0449911810	34787299	Earthly Possessions	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not her best, but still not bad....	This is my fourth Anne Tyler novel, and although I liked it a bit better than The Tin Can Tree, it is still not on par with Breathing Lessons or The Accidental Tourist. I somewhat liked the character of Charlotte, but she wasn't as sympathetic to me as other Tyler heroines. I could, however, relate to her dissatisfaction with life - I just wished she'd do more, be more proactive, and not complain so much. That said, Tyler give a clear glimpse into her family life, which made it possible to comprehend how she'd become the person she was, even if I found her hard to put up with in long doses. I was interested in her marriage and family life. Wat I wasn't interested in was the subplot with Jake, the bank robber. This angle to the novel was so far fetched that it kept me from fully embracing the story. If Jake and his girlfriend were more well rounded characters, I might've cared more about that subplot. In general, I found that the book should've been longer. The fact that the book was so short made it difficult for Tyler to fully explore the differing points of view of the various characters, which she does to full effect in Breathing Lessons. In short, this is a good, not great book. If you've never read Tyler's work before, I wouldn't start with this book - I doubt you'll fully grasp the level of her talent. This book is more for hardcore Tyler fans who, like me, are determined to read all her books, just on principle.	2003-11-05
US	49255792	R2VGSJYMU0YG05	0385491115	862808401	Wilderness Tips	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Well written, poignant stories	I am not a fan of the short story genre; in fact, the only reason I picked up this book is because I am such an enormous fan of Margaret Atwood's. The mere fact that this collection held my attention well enough for me to complete it is in itself a major feat.<br />As usual, Atwood focuses on all aspects of female experience: love, relationships, sex, power. She's a gifted wordsmith who has an uncanny ability to get to the heart of matters and create imagery - both physical and emotional - that resonates with readers. Although the description of the ovarian cyst in Hairball (probably my favorite story in the collection. Although I did love Uncles, and Death by Landscape) was morbid and graphic, but it was gratuitous - Atwood was clearly making a point, and I don't know that she could have made it any other way. Atwood's usual flair for creating characters that were multidimensional and realistic was at work in most of the stories. <br />There were a few stories - notably The Bog Man - that I didn't particularly enjoy. As well, some of the themes did get repetitive. In the end, as someone who isn't a big fan of short stories, a part of me wishes that Atwood had taken a few of the wonderful characters she created in the books' best stories and created a full length novel, or, even better, a few full length novels. If, however, you are a fan of the short story genre, you will likely enjoy this book even more so than I, in which case I'd highly reccommend you read it.	2003-10-13
US	49255792	RSQCKYNHXDXKG	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Probably 3 and a half, actually.	I really did enjoy this book - it was very readable and fast paced. I cared about the key characters. Alot of what happens in the book felt true to life, and I particularly enjoyed the relationships between Sam and her son, and Sam and her mother. I also thought that Berg used her secondary characters, the people who roomed at Samantha's, quite well. The evolution of the characters was good. The plot was engaging, overall. Based on my rating system, I should probably give it four stars, as I imagine I will never give it away - I could see myself reading at least some parts of it. Some of the imagery is quite stunning.<br />So why not a full five stars? I've struggled with that; I read this book ages ago and I've avoided reviewing it because I've been torn. The problem is that although the book was good, it wasn't particularly great. In the first three or four chapters, it seems like Berg is going to really let Samantha struggle, and we're going to get to see some of the real pain a person can feel as they rebuild from a separation. The problem is she never quite goes far enough; the emotional depth isn't quite there. Everything seems to be wrapped up too quickly and easily. I wanted to get a better understanding of who David was, and why the marriage broke up (to be fair to Berg, she does write some effective flashbacks, and this really is Sam's story, not Sam and David's story). And I wanted to like the character of King more. He was just goofy to me.<br />In short, if you want a book that's well written and a fast read, you'll like this book. If you're looking for something with really deep insights into how a woman recovers from her husband suddenly walking out, this book doesn't quite live up to it's potential. Enjoy it for a light summer read	2003-10-01
US	49255792	R15M17QK15RD68	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A good place to start	I enjoyed this book as part of a Bible study at my church. The layout was easy to read; having the five key topics broken down into short daily readings made the material easy to digest. It gives the reader time to contemplate what Warren is saying and the implications for Christian life. The book helped me get clear on many issues; I felt closer to God when I read it. It was simple, and yes, even a bit simplistic. Still, it was a good starting point for discussions in our group that went much deeper. I highly recommend the videos that come with the book if you are going to use the text as part of a Bible study. <br />I do see some of the contradictions, notably around the issue of free will vs. predestination, that some other readers have noted. I also disliked Warren's habit of using different bibles - I agree that this is problematic. However, I didn't find either of these issues problematic enough to take away from the basic message of the book. I don't see this book as an end point so much as a place to start in looking at questions about what life is about. Warren is just trying to get people thinking; he doesn't expect the book to be the be all and end all. He seems to understand that spiritual growth is a journey that evolves over time.<br />Overall, The Purpose Driven Life is a positive, practical, user-friendly information on how to live a more Christian existence in my daily life. I think this is a good book to read if you are feeling disconnected from God want to live a more meaningful existence. It's got ideas in it that will be of benefit to both new and more experienced Christians.	2003-09-24
US	49255792	RBT5I09A3HIXM	0060608765	989291643	Meaning of Jesus, The	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Strong work on a fascinating subject	I am not a theologian, and as such, I can't review or evaluate this book on that level. I am a Christian who was raised in the Anglican Church, and I've always been fascinated by questions of Biblical inerrancy. I approached this book as someone who clearly believes in Jesus as Son of God and Saviour, yet who is open to different ways of approaching the Bible.<br />Borg and Wright both make well written, clear arguments to explain their views around Christ both as a spiritual and historical figure. The authors addressed all the key questions about Jesus, and they didn't try to force the reader into accepting one point of view or the other; the book seemed to be meant to get people thinking and exploring these issues. Any book that can take such complex matters and create a book that is not dry or textbook-like should be applauded. <br />I thought the scholarship on both sides was sound, although both relied a bit more on their own previous works than I would have liked. A bibliography/list of works cited to go along with the notes would have been more appropriate. I thought the layout was a bit annoying - I'd have preferred a dialogue set up for each question, so that I could read the authors' differing views side by side, and it would've been easier to be clear on where they agreed and disagreed. As it was, I found myself going back and forth to see what each was saying on a particular subject. <br />This book may present a challenge to readers who have made up their minds about Jesus' identity either way. As someone who does have faith, I found it a good exercise to read something that asked me to set aside my beliefs, question, and be open to new possibilities/interpretations. I actually found that in some ways my faith was strengthened because Borg was able to give me a way to look at the things in the Bible I find contradictory that doesn't require me to completely abandon the Bible. <br />This book can be complex in parts, and it does assume a certain level ofknowledge on the part of the readers' behalf. I don't know that it's a great book for a beginner. Anyone who is interested in the historical Jesus, regardless of what you believe about him, will find this book interesting, if challenging at times. I highly recommend it.	2003-09-24
US	49255792	R1R5J0UL1JOT79	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Some good information	I found that the book was well laid out. The writing style was clear and concise, and I particularly enjoyed the authors' use of metaphors, etc., to illustrate their points. I thought it was good that the authors set key points aside in the margins on the text as well. They used alot of good, practical examples to help readers understand what for some would be complex ideas. I particularly enjoyed the key questions at the end of each chapter - I found that was the really the only thing in the book that I could, with effort, apply to my own situation.<br />I did find that this book was not as useful to me as some other books on business management/leadership. As a front line worker in the human services (not for profit) sector, I didn't find much of the information applicable to my line of work as some other books. I also found that the prologue/introductory part of the book went on too long. In fact, I didn't like the way the authors would refer back to and expand upon case studies given in the introductory section - I'd have preferred to see these case studies at the beginning of the relevant chapter only. I also would have preferred fewer, and less detailed, examples - I wanted more theory. It was because I couldn't relate to the examples that I had trouble seeing how I could use this material in my workplace. <br />Most of my criticisms are likely things that wouldn't have bothered me if the subject matter was more relevant to my life. I think this would be a good book for a business student to read, and as such I would highly reccommend it for the reading lists of any post secondary business program. It's just not a book that will likely appeal to a general readership.	2003-09-20
US	49255792	R2Q0UA0CIXUAIU	1401081274	957071418	A Year of Samantha	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Not good, yet strangely compelling	I have to confess that there were points at which I was highly tempted to give up on this book. Yet, as the book went on, it did become more engrossing. I did find myself intrigued by Samantha's work situation. The author built the suspense up rather well here. The book makes an ok beach read, if you want something light that doesn't require you to think. I confess I did at times find myself caring whether the couple was going to get together, despite the things I disliked about the book. <br />My problem threefold: First, I didn't particularly care for any of the characters. I thought that Samantha was a witch and Cedric was a wimp. I found they lacked depth and realism. I didn't get why he was so hung up on her - she wasn't worth it, and it didn't seem realistic that he waited around for her so long. Second, the book was too long and had too many subplots/characters. Third, and most importantly, along with character development, I'd like to see Gardner work more on his writing style. I found the book overly descriptive - I kept thinking, \\"Stop telling me so much  - show me who these people are by what the do.\\" I also found that he generally gave me too much detail - I don't care what the characters had for dinner! Some of the dialogue was off; it didn't ring true to me. I'd find myself thinking, \\"Real people don't talk like this.\\"<br />Overall, I do think Gardner has potential to be a quality writer. If you take this as just a frothy romance novel and don't expect anything too heavy, you could enjoy it, even though I wouldn't make it first on your must read list. I will give Gardner's next effort a read.	2003-09-20
US	49255792	RHKXRFXSE5Y85	0684855380	261532966	My Sister from the Black Lagoon : A Novel of My Life	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Worth a look, but not what it could've been	Fox caught my attention with the first line of this novel, as she writes that &quot;I was born into a mentally ill family. My sister was the officially crazy one, but really we were all nuts.&quot;  This statement is simple on the surface, and yet it speaks to the overall impact on a family system when one person has an illness, be it mental or physical. In the first part of the book, she keeps a clear, steady focus on the Person family, and it works beautifully. I started to get a sense of knowing not only Lorna, but the whole family.<br />Even in the second and third parts of the book, the writing is still top quality. Fox has a clear narrative voice, and some of the prose is as poignant and heartbreaking as any I've read. Lorna is a delightful blend of innocent and cynic. She's smart, she's insecure, she's funny, she's brave, she's cowardly - she's human, and on some level, all of us, even if we've left our adolescence and can't remember that far back, can still feel an echo of recognition in reading her story. Despite that, the pacing drops off so much in the middle part of the book that the reader is pulled out of the story. It seemed like Fox was being careful to not portray anyone (specifically Lonnie and her parents) in a negative light. Rather than risk casting such a shadow over the rest of Lorna's family, Fox simply pulls them out of the book for a key period in Lorna's life. The book devolved from a compelling tale about the nature of family, love, sisterhood, and mental illness into a standard insecure teen girl comes of age tale. <br />Despite what seems to be a low mark, and some serious criticisms, this is still a worthwhile book to read, simply to experience the depth of Fox's adroit use of the English language. Just don't read it expecting to learn a great deal about mental illness. I'm glad I bought it used.	2003-03-24
US	49255792	R3OEM94OY5GURH	0060929987	503656070	Family Pictures: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great read...	As stated in other reviews, this novel looks at the impact of autism on a family system. Now, that probably sounds dull, dry and lifeless, which this book is not. This book is gripping - spellbinding in parts, in fact. There were times I absolutely could not put it down. Miller has a way of bringing people and situations to life in such a way that even if you've never experienced what she's writing about, you can find something in it to relate to. She makes things real, and she's a very honest writer. As someone who has a disability, I can say in all honesty that Miller did her research. She truly understands how some families can be impacted by such an event. The characterizations are vibrant and even bold at times. The use of the device of the shifting narrator was a good choice. The title is brilliant - the book is really a series of vignettes, pictures, of this family at various stages of coping, growing, developing and changing.<BR> <BR>As strong as this novel is, it doesn't quite reach the heights it needs to in order to warrant the final star.  This book shows the promise of what is to come in The Distinguished Guest. The biggest problem with Family Pictures is that is too long, and as good as the characters are, they're still lacking that third dimension. The book has some inspired moments, but Miller can't sustain it. She tries to integrate bits of the outside culture, and how that impacts what happens in the family, but those connnections are weak. In fact, those elements of the book seem particularly shallow (the Freud references, the swinging, the drugs, etc... it seems more for effect than anything) and they detract a bit from best parts - the how these people relate to one another. The sex scenes and some of the swearing seems fake and unnecessary. <br />This is one of the better books I've read - as popular fiction goes, it's as good as anything you're going to find. It only falls short in that it's not the best Miller's written. I highly reccommend reading it - even buying it - but it's not quite as \\"can't miss\\" as The Distinguished Guest.	2003-03-18
US	49255792	R1VKVXTFRNYRAW	0385335830	41523586	Diary of a Mad Bride	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Uproariously funny in parts	I should note that I'm not married or engaged and I still thought this book was hilarious. I think the thing that made it work for me is that I have known brides like Amy. I've been a bridesmaid in a couple weddings like this. I know how a woman can, despite the best of intentions, let her wedding plans take over her life. The character of Amy worked for me because even as she got more and more consumed with wedding madness, she did try to keep up with her friendships and her work. She had a bit of self-awareness, at least at times, even if it didn't keep her from getting out of control. So many of the scenes in the book were things I've heard of happening, if on a smaller scale. I really liked her two friends Mandy and Anita. They were a good balance.  I loved the bits with their two families. <br />Admittedly, in a book like this, character development is secondary to creating humorous situations. All the characters were essentially riffs on certain stereotypes - but that's part of the fun, and the satire, if you let yourself be open to it. I do wish the groom had been given a bit more depth - it would've made a key event in the novel have greater resonance. I loved the bits with their two families. <br />If you go into this book expecting a really serious novel, you will be sorely disappointed. It's a comedy; you're supposed to be able to read it quickly, have a good laugh and move on. I could definitely see myself reading this book again - I found I laughed more often, and more heartily, than I did reading Bridget Jones' Diary. I did think the diary format was a good way to go for a novel like this, and I liked that she had bits of actual dialogue set out in script format. It got my attention. I thought the footnotes were a good touch, too. I got bored of the periodic 'to do' list. I do also wish the satire had been a bit more biting and insightful at times. The author clearly has some skill and potential.<br />Overall, I generally loved this book. It's not a profound work of literature, but it was fun. Definitely a worthy first effort by an author I'd like to read more from in the future. Until then, I'll just have to re-read some of my favorite parts of \\"Diary\\" when I need a laugh!!!!	2003-02-18
US	49255792	R2LN9044N9CVQP	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Deceptively simple	I found that this book was hard to get into at first. I read about a chapter and a half and needed a break. Once I picked it up again, I was hooked.<br />Although on the surface this novel appears to be a simple coming of age tale, it goes much deeper than that. I found myself getting caught up in the creative way that Murakami uses setting to create tone and atmosphere in the story. The things going on in the background - the campus riots, dorm life, the sanitarium, etc., aren't just there to fill up space. They're integral to creating the mood the author needs to get across his themes. And his themes are very complex - issues to do with the nature of love, life, and loss in modern society. This is a very disturbing book, with some imagery (the sex scenes aren't thrown in here just to be titillating. In fact, the sex is some of the most disturbing I've read in serious fiction in a long time. But that's part of the point - he's showing how sex can actually be a means of creating distance rather closeness between people) although there is an element of hope in the end.<br />I didn't like the use of the flashback technique in this book. The novel starts with Toru, the main character, as an adult reflecting back on his life at age 20ish. Other authors (notably Wolff in Patterns of Childhood) have used memory as a device to better effect than Murakami did here. He could just as easily have started the novel with Toru at 19 and skipped the first chapter. The book doesn't particularly deal well with mental illness or suicide, in that I didn't particularly gain a whole lot more insight into either of those two issues than I had prior to reading the book.<br />Having said that, the reason this book is so gripping and kept me reading to the end is that Murakami created characters I could invest in and relate to.  I cared about these people, and I wanted to know what happened to them. Naoko wasn't quite as fully fleshed out as Toru, or even Midori, but I think that fit; so much of she was was an image in Toru's mind. This novel is one where the use of the first person narrative was an brilliant choice on behalf of the author. It's vital to the story that everything is told from Toru's point of view. The dialogue is very good, too.<br />I can't compare this novel to any of the author's other work, as I haven't read any of it. I don't expect to rush out and read his other books, given how different they are purported to be compared to Norwegian Wood. I will say that if you are looking for a coming of age novel that still has appeal to those over the age of 25, this book is a good choice.	2003-02-18
US	49255792	R3A0B0Q8A0C8S3	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Seriously Smart	This book was really funny. Wolff created a character in Tiffany that most single thirty something women can relate to. The situations in the novel were realistic, if a bit tediously episodic at times. Wolff has a good ear for dialogue, too. Some of the conversations between Tiffany and her friends about relationships really rung true (although there weren't any major insights, either). Each of the characters are distinct, although a few are underdeveloped - mostly because there were actually a few too many. It was nice to see a female character not totally lose track of her friends because she's completely consumed in her quest to land Mr. Right. Overall, the book is genuinely engaging and humourous.<br />On the downside, the book was a little on the slow side at times, and it was too long. I didn't see why Tiffany couldn't forget about Seriously Successful, either. The ending bothered me. I still found it better than Bridget Jones' Diary - unlike Bridget, I could definitely see myself reading this again. However, it didn't quite live up to it's potential enough to garner the fifth and final star.	2003-01-02
US	49255792	RMODCAZWDVJ7W	0060930438	650693086	Kids, Parents, and Power Struggles: Winning for a Lifetime	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Parents, children, and emotional intelligence	This well-written book is a fine, worthy follow up to the very useful Raising Your Spirited Child. The author uses the work of Daniel Goleman on Emotional Intelligence to help parents learn to avoid power struggles with their children. The author advocates the need for parents to both ddevelop their own emotional intelligence and to help their children develop this qualities. <br />Part one gives a good, if not detailed enough, overview of what emotional intelligence is and why it's important. She could've referenced a bit more research here; it does exist. Parts Two and Four look at how parents can connect with their children to be &quot;emotion coaches&quot; for them.  Part Two is about building a better relationship with your child. Part Four is is focused on life skills. I really enjoyed these sections of the book, although they, too, could've been more detailed. That said Kurcinka is gearing this book to a general audience and probably didn't want to get bogged down in alot of theory and research. That's actually a good thing - the book is not at all dry. It's readable and I think parents will be able to relate to the examples she uses. She uses alot of real life case examples from her own practice. <br />I didn't find Part 3 to be as useful as the rest of the book, because it was all about temperment. This material was covered in detail in her previous book, which I've read. Everything about it was pretty much a carbon copy of the original book &quot;Raising Your Strong Willed Child.&quot; For those who haven't read that book, the information is very useful, and I think necessary, but for me it was repetitive. She could've shortened or deleted this section of the book and given more exercises, activities, and overall detail in the other three parts.<br />Overall, this is a very useful book for anyone who wants to learn to lessen conflict and power struggles with children. It's geared more toward children under 12, but the materials can also be applied to teens. Highly reccommended.	2002-10-26
US	49255792	R6AICAB018538	0140067477	446789245	The Tao of Pooh	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Charming introduction to Taoism	As someone who has always loved Winnie the Pooh, and who has a deep interest in Eastern philosophy, this book was one I'd looked forward to reading. It didn't disappoint. I loved the technique he used of having the characters ask him questions. It was fun, and it kept me engaged in the book  The author explained Taoism in a way that was charming, easy to understand, and not at all dry, as some philosophical works can be. I feel that I have a better understanding of Taoism, and I am now eager to read more about it. What's interesting is that I have a four year old niece who loves Winnie the Pooh, and when we watch the cartoon together, I also now have new, grown-up insight into it, which makes it more fun for me too! <br />The book is quick - in fact, I found it a bit too short - and easy to read. I admit, it could've been a bit more in-depth. I'm sure critics who say this is a very superficial examination of Taoism are probably right. However, I don't know that this criticism is particularly important. I think Hoffman's purpose was simply to whet the reader's appetite so that they'd be motivated to do more study of Taoist philosophy. If I'm correct in this belief, he was successful, at least in my case.	2002-10-13
US	49255792	R3N2GEUSF0SPDZ	0345322932	251644142	Living Through Personal Crisis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good	I have a slightly older addition, which is why I'm not giving this book five stars. Some of the references are a little out of date. <br />Overall, this is a really useful book. Dr. Stearns clearly understands the grieving process. She provides a balanced exploration of what happens to to people during times of crisis, and helps readers to cope. I say balanced in that this isn't a typical 'self-help' book, lacking in depth, yet it isn't an overly technical, dry psychology book. The case histories and the overall writing style make the book very read friendly. Her arguments make sense and are backed up by good research. Readers who've read other work on the subject of grief, death, loss, crisis, etc., will find they may be familiar with some of the ideas already, but the presentation is fresh enough to keep this from being a big drawback. If you've gone through a major loss, or if you are personally or professionally trying to support someone who has, this is a great book to pick up.	2002-10-13
US	49255792	R18BEZRI7XZU0Z	0553380362	52446230	The Difficult Child: Expanded and Revised Edition	Books	2	49	65	N	N	Not great...	This book does give some insight into temperment. I don't think it truly provides solutions to parents that will help them deal with difficult children. The author's approach is very behaviouristic and authoritarian. Most parents would find it hard to do some of the things Turecki suggests. He uses alot of negative labels for children's behaviour; he seems to be stigmatizing these children. It's a very simplistic approach. There are better methods available for helping parents cope with high energy children. I'd read Mary Sheedy Kurchinka's Raising Your Spirited Child and the follow-up to it, Kids, Parents and Power Struggles.	2002-09-21
US	49255792	RMNOQNO6QPA0X	0440226430	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A more intelligent Jackie Collins/Danielle Steele type book	Like most women who grew up in the 70s, I was a huge fan of Judy Blume's children's books. This is the first time I've read one of her adult novels. I didn't think it was bad, and yet I excpected more from her. I liked the main characters of Vix and Caitlin. The book is really about female friendship, belonging, family, and love. I could relate to how Caitlin treated Vix - I felt like I knew these girls. Their envy of each other made perfect sense, and I did sympathize with both of them. They were people I could identify with. The situations they found themselves in, the fears, the concerns, the hopes, all rang true. The dialogue was realistic and the novel was fast paced. Blume started to explore family dynamics, but only on a surface level. And that is the key problem.<br />There were too many characters, and I didn't like the shifting points of view at various points in each chapter. I know she did it to try to give the reader a better sense of the family dynamics at work; I don't think it was effective.  I never quite understood Tawny, Abby, or Vix's need to replace Tawny with Abby. I felt let down by the event that is considered the big betrayal of the final summer -- there's a secret that Blume holds on to until the girls are adults that I think she should've revealed sooner. <br />Yes, this book has alot of sex in it, and some of it is unnecessary. I didn't find it as offensive as some other readers, however. Overall, this was a decent book that was easy to read. It won't challenge you, and you likely won't want to read it twice, (hence the rating of 3 stars as opposed to 4) but it will keep you engrossed. I wouldn't reccommend it to anyone under 15 or so. I also don't think it's likely to appeal to many people over the age of 35ish.	2002-09-13
US	49255792	R115ZVOOJCAVWN	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	2	22	40	N	N	Not worth it	I read this book because I'd always wanted to read it, and because an acquaintance reccommended it. The reason the rating I'm giving it is so low isn't because the ideas are bad, per se, but because the writing style is so annoying to my modern reader's ear that I found the book incredibly hard to read.<br />The ideas themselves, as I said, are fine. I don't find that Carnegie's suggestions are manipulative. In fact, he makes it clear at least two or three times that people who try to use his techniques and suggestions to manipulate people will find that they aren't successful. Alot of what Carnegie is suggesting is basic common sense: be empathetic, be a good listener, don't stuck in a position and instead focus on finding common interests, and give constructive criticism. These are all very useful tips. I appreciated the way Carnegie summed up each chapter with a one sentence bullet. I also liked how each part had a listing of the key point of each chapter from that section. It made skimming through the book much easier.<br />Many of the chapters are repetitive - he talks about criticism in at least three chapters, and he's essentially just expanding on the same point. I would've preferred few chapters providing a more in-depth examination of the key topics, rather than reading alot of chapters that were essentially repetitive. His examples were archaic, which didn't help. Overall, the writing style was frutrating to me as a modern reader. In general, other authors, such as Stephen Covey (Seven Habits For Highly Effective People) and Roger Fisher (Getting to Yes, Difficult Conversations) have addressed the points Carnegie is making in a deeper, more interesting manner.	2002-09-04
US	49255792	R2JWACP7KGMWHQ	0671733354	132993260	How to Stop Worrying and Start Living	Books	2	63	98	N	N	Dull	I know that seems like a low rating for a classic author like Carnegie, so I feel compelled to let readers of this review know that it doesn't mean so much that I think the book is bad and not worth reading so much as it means I don't think the book is worth buying, which to me is an important distinction.<br />The best things about it were that it was a quick read, and that Carnegie did have a bullet summaries at the end of each chapter, and a one page list of highlights for each section. All you really need to do is read those, and you've got the book. I may actually write some of those things down.<br />That, essentially was my problem with it -- he didn't have a great deal to say, and yet he took over 300 pages to say it. I didn't even bother to read the last section (Thirty-One True Stories), as I could tell by scanning it that it'd just be more rehashing of the first seven parts.<br />Essentially, this book could have been a pamphlet. It was very simplistic, and I'm sure that everyone has read all his suggestions and tips - some of which are useful and work, like keeping busy, and trying to change your thinking - from other sources. Alot of the advice is just common sense. And the examples were silly and too detailed; it got to where I was skipping over them and only reading the parts that were highlighted by the person who loaned me the book.<br />Carnegie uses the word &quot;worry&quot; in such a broad way that it doesn't have a real meaning; in some cases what he calls &quot;worry&quot; to me seems more like a phobia - something a person would likely need professional assistance to address. Last, in general I found that that the book didn't flow - each chapter felt disconnected from the next.<br />In general, this book is flawed, but it has some useful information that some people will be able to apply. I wouldn't pay money for this book (at least not much) but if worry is something that is getting you down, you could benefit from skimming the book for an hour or so. As I said initially, just read the bold type at the end of each chapter, and the summary at the end of each part.an hour or so. As I said initially, just read the bold type at the end of each chapter, and the summary at the end of each part.	2002-08-28
US	49255792	R1E2QAIKM3COUU	0451204948	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Almost 4 stars...	I really got into this book in the beginning. I loved all the characters, and I appreciated the alternating narrators. The technique gave the reader a much more rounded perspective on the characters and their life situations. In general, this is a well written, engaging novel with a great deal of interesting things to say about the ties that bind families together. It's definitely worth reading. The some of the characters are terrific. I thought Vy was a riot, and I loved her relationship with her granddaughter Shanice. I didn't care for any of the male characters, but that was as much due to the fact that they didn't get as much space as it was anything to do with how they were written. <br />As the book got to about the 200 page mark, however, it started to drag. Once the key event happens to Vy that brings the family together (even though I think another reviewer mentioned it, I won't say just in case) I got really interested again. I<br />If the story had been about how all the family members cope after that event, and come back together to deal with their complex sibling relationships, I'd have enjoyed the book more. I thought that the problems Janelle and Paris had were complex enough that they could've had a book of there own. We didn't really get to know Lewis or Charlotte as well as the other two siblings, so I was less invested in them. In the case of Charlotte that was particularly disappointed, because I was really intrigued by the conflict between her and Paris. If McMillan weren't such a gifted writer, with such a good ear for dialogue and character, I might not have been so frustrated by these things. But the last 150 pages or so were so engrossing to me that I know she could've made the book even better than it was - and it was still better than alot of fiction on the market today. <br />Overall, despite my few problems with the novel, this story was a very enjoyable reading experience. It makes for a great summer read. I've never read anything by Terry McMillan prior to this book. I'm definitely a fan now.	2002-08-12
US	49255792	R2V7N1CQIM4YDH	087630496X	365053752	Dancing With The Family: A Symbolic-Experiential Approach	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Interesting, but....	I liked this book; I really did. It had alot of good points. I appreciated the way that the author took one case and carried it all the way through as an illustration of his points about how to best work with families. The question and answer sections after each vignette help the reader generalize what he is doing with he particular family. <br />Whittaker points out the importance family therapists joining with the family, which means that the therapist has to build enough of a relationship with the family to really connect with them and have them believe he is truly present with them. He showws how important it is for a good therapist to shake the family up a bit and create some disequilibrium, because it is through the creation of anxiety that change takes place. He sees his work as a therapist as not only encouraging the growth of his clients, but also enhancing his own growth. This book will be most useful to a reader who has some background in working with families. The book takes the basic concepts that students will have already learned in a survey course and expands them, giving the reader greater insight into the particular way that one of the leaders in the field practices. In that sense it's really a fascinating book.<br />I found that the book was too short. I wanted more detail, somehow. I found that it was repetitive in parts, and I disagreed with some of the things that Whittaker said about the nature of the family and the importance of marriage. Some of his beliefs about male/female relationships don't fit for me - they seem rather old fashioned. That, coupled with the fact that it will really only benefit a limited audience, is the reason I'm giving it 3 stars instead of 4.	2002-08-12
US	49255792	R2C5XP0ZA2THW0	0312152329	643322364	Toxic People: 10 Ways Of Dealing With People Who Make Your Life Miserable	Books	2	65	82	N	N	Far too simplistic	I liked some things in the book. She is very clear that one can never resort to violence in dealing with a toxic person. Her earnestness around creating a more peaceful world is admirable. Even though I'd have liked a bit more depth of analysis, I agree with her argument that people who behave in a toxic manner are generally insecure. I liked how she took the ten techniques and showed the best people to use them with, depending on either the type of person they are, or their role in the reader's life. I particularly liked her work on dealing with the anger and hurt of a toxic relationship and the chapter or revitalizing a toxic relationship. The parts of the book I did like, however, suffered from the same simplicity as the rest of the book. <br />That said, overall I thought the book was a waste of my money. I could easily have taken it out of the library, read it in a day and returned it. Nothing in the book really stuck with me. The techniques she suggested have been described in better detail by other authors. I will concede that some of these strategies do work. I thought she advocated just cutting people out of one's life far too easily and frequently. Alot of the book seemed very judgemental, and Glass came across as condescending in parts. <br />The  is full of broad generalizations. Her descriptions of the 30 different types are far too short. As a result, I could make anyone fit into the category of a toxic person based on the way she's described them. The fact that a person is annoying doesn't make them toxic. <br />In general, there are other books on the market that are far better at helping readers cope with difficult people. I wouldn't put this one first on my list.	2002-08-04
US	49255792	R1RHFNZMBW384Q	0399226842	100186024	The Very Quiet Cricket Board Book	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Love Eric Carle but...	this isn't a favorite of mine. The Very Hungry Caterpillar is better. The cricket's story isn't as interesting to the children I've worked with as the caterpillar's. The illustrations are vintage Carle - we all did love the pictures. And I like that he introduces new vocabulary for children, and the use of repitition is still there. Some of the bug names were even hard for a few of the adults, however. Overall, I'd say check this out from the library if your child is a fan of Carle's work and has already read The Very Busy Spider and The Very Hungry Caterpillar. If they love it, then you can think about buying it.	2002-07-31
US	49255792	R2UY013S1FAJY8	093400711X	687655919	Alaska's Three Bears (PAWS IV)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An adult's opinion	This is another book we read to our students at our summer reading program. They loved it. They thought the drawings were terrific, and especially liked the borders on each page. They enjoyed learning more about bears, and they thought it was a neat twist on the original story of the three bears. I highly recommend this book to any teacher who wants to do a unit on bears - it's a book that successfully merges entertainment and educaational components.	2002-07-31
US	49255792	RE281OG2975ZC	0394800303	961193691	Dr. Seuss's ABC  (Beginner Books, I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Another winner...	This is yet another staple at our summer reading program for primary age (kindergarten to gr. 3 or 4) students. It's not one we do with the whole group - a tutor will read it with particular children who have trouble with basic letter sounds and recognition. It's been extremely helpful to our students. It's easy to read and it has all Seuss's regular features, good rhymes, illustrations, and alot of charm. I'd give it 5 stars, but some of the drawings and humor don't quite live up to legendary books like Green Eggs and Ham. Also, I was disappointed that as the book went on, Seuss didn't give kids a chance to think of a word that started with the letter -- he'd have the letter and some words that begin with that letter all on the same page. From a teaching perspective, the other way would've been more useful.	2002-07-31
US	49255792	R32JVC4VAT63NZ	1582700362	491456278	The Queen, the Bear, and the Bumblebee	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This is a great book!	I really think the editorial reviews are harsh. The children I read this book to today loved it, and it led to some fun, enlightening activities around self acceptance. They thought the drawings were bright and colorful and they liked the story. The bee does give a positive, if somewhat didactic message. Kids liked how he knew that he could never please everyone and that the best thing to do is to accept himself and feel good about himself. The rhymes may be simple, but that's good in a way - it made it easy for the kids to read on their own.  All in all, for the 3-7 year age range, which is what my group mostly was, this is fine book.	2002-07-31
US	49255792	R32CU7DQ6V5YD2	006019409X	369687425	How to Get What You Want and Want What You Have: A Practical and Spiritual Guide to Personal Success	Books	3	48	49	N	N	Probably 3 and a half.	I expected to hate this book. I got it for free because a box of books was donated to my office for our garage sale (we're a non profit agency). Surprisingly, I generally thought the book was pretty good.<br />Despite the fact that the phrase &quot;love tank&quot; is corny, Gray's point is a good one. He is trying to show people that true happiness and success isn't measured through the external trappings of wealth -- without an inner life, and an inner sense of worth, people will constantly try to fill up their emptiness with stuff. And all the &quot;stuff&quot; in the world won't make up for what is lacking in good relationships, a sense of emotional well being, spiritual development, and community. I agree with him there.<br />I don't however, necessarily accept that you need all ten types of love to be happy. I do know people who don't have a romantic partner who are quite satisfied with their lives. Same with people who don't have children. The latter especially didn't fit for me -- Gray argues that being an aunt or belonging to something like Big Sisters won't fill you; you actually have to be a parent or have a pet, because otherwise you aren't experiencing enough responsibility. In Western culture that may be true. In other cultures, like mine (I'm of Eastern European descent) aunts and uncles view their nieces and nephews as being like their own. I certain do with my little niece. So it isn't as simple as Gray puts it.<br />Oversimplification is the biggest drawback of this book, and the reason I didn't give it five stars. There isn't a whole lot in the book that's particularly new. The letter writing techniques he describes can be found in other Gray books. There is a wealth of material on meditiation on the market. So if you read alot of self-help, some of the material in this book might seem redundant. This fact makes the book, which is about 310 pages, seem even longer than that.<br />Gray has a chapter that talks about different crisises at various life stages. Although he doesn't make the comparision, this chapter is reminiscent of Erik Erikson's eight stages of man. Had Gray referred to Erikson, this chapter might've had more weight. I was also frustrated because I know, as someone who's taken developmental psychology, that some of the life stages he mentions (mid life, retirement) have been shown in some studies to not result in crisis for a number of people. He makes no allusions to any evidence or research that might contradict his beliefs. In general, I was disappointed by the lack of references to other authors who share similar ideas.<br />I did find that his chapters on identifying and addressing the twelve blocks were really useful for me. I can also see myself journalling with some of the questions he gives in Ch. 17 to help the reader explore their past. Some of the suggested meditations are pretty good, too. So overall, there is some material in the book I could see myself referring to in the future, either for my own personal work, or to help a client. If you like Gray, and/or you want to learn to deal with your emotions more effectively, I'd say that this book is worth reading.life stages. Although he doesn't make the comparision, this chapter is reminiscent of Erik Erikson's eight stages of man. Had Gray referred to Erikson, this chapter might've had more weight. I was also frustrated because I know, as someone who's taken developmental psychology, that some of the life stages he mentions (mid life, retirement) have been shown in some studies to not result in crisis for a number of people. He makes no allusions to any evidence or research that might contradict his beliefs. In general, I was disappointed by the lack of references to other authors who share similar ideas. <br />I did find that his chapters on identifying and addressing the twelve blocks were really useful for me. I can also see myself journalling with some of the questions he gives in Ch. 17 to help the reader explore their past. Some of the suggested meditations are pretty good, too. So overall, there is some material in the book I could see myself referring to in the future, either for my own personal work, or to help a client. If you like Gray, and/or you want to learn to deal with your emotions more effectively, I'd say that this book is worth reading.	2002-07-19
US	49255792	R36EWDDENSQXUH	0192833782	97234762	Shirley (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	15	24	N	N	Long,complex and uneven	I found that I had a difficult time getting into this novel. The first 200 pages (maybe a bit less) were absolute torture. The only thing that made me get through the beginning section was that I liked the characters of Caroline and Robert. This novel is as much, or more, Caroline's story as Shirley's, actually. I'm quite sure that if someone were to do an analysis of which character (Shirley/Caroline) had the most &quot;air time&quot; in the book, Caroline would come out on top. The book is about their relationship and how they impact each other's life. It's also a social history that gives the reader insight into the political upheaval of the Napoleonic Wars, and the economics of the time.<br />I couldn't get interested in the political/economic undertones of the book. My edition doesn't have a preface/introduction to give me the necessary background so that I could understand the issues presented. As the book is written, a certain degree of previous knowledge is assumed and required to really understand the historical context of the book. There are alot of secondary characters, and it was hard to keep them all straight. A list of characters in the beginning, as is provided in Jane Austen's Emma, would've helped me keep it straight. Also, I needed a glossary/footnotes to translate the French in the book.<br />The book seemed to slip back and forth between being about men, women, relationships, and the two main romances (won't give away which characters are involved in them) on the one hand, to being about the politics/economics/history on the other. The two issues aren't particularly merged successfully.<br />I did like the female characters. They were much more effectively drawn and multidimensional than the male ones. In fact, the male characters seemed really unimportant and secondary. The novel had a few surprising, upredictable twists I liked, too.<br />In summary, this is a good, not great book. If you like Bronte, I think you owe it to yourself to read it. Just bear in mind that it's not an easy read, and that the book has a very slow pace in sections.. Just bear in mind that it's not an easy read, and that the book has a very slow pace in sections.	2002-07-17
US	49255792	R1AYJHKTAPB4EJ	0786868686	332156795	Fish! Tales: Real-Life Stories to Help You Transform Your Workplace and Your Life	Books	2	1	4	N	N	For major FISH! Fans only....	A friend loaned me this book because she thought I might be interested in it. It didn't live up to my expectations, although it did have a few good points. <br />There are three things I liked about this book. First, the principles, if a bit simplistic and basic, are still sound ones. Second, the authors wrote the book in a way that I wasn't lost even though I hadn't read the first book in the series. And last, some of the activities in the second half of the book might be useful for some people. <br />I personally didn't find that there was anything new in the book that I hadn't read in other places. I got bored fairly quickly, even though it was an easy read. There are only two groups of people I'd reccommend this book to -- those who absolutely loved the first book and want to have the sequel for personal, sentimental reasons, and those who in skimming through it are intrigued by the exercises and want to do them.	2002-07-13
US	49255792	R33818I175KHKC	080652216X	312262889	Did You Say Something Susan?: How Any Woman Can Gain Confidence With Assertive Communication	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A little simplistic...	I did like this book, and I could see reccommending it to clients I counsel. The activities and exercises are great. Her writing style is easy to read and the book is well laid out. She covers pretty much all the important issues with a fair amount of detail and great examples.<br />So why the relatively low rating? Well, I did find the book oversimplified the problems of unassertiveness. I would've liked an entire chapter just on the role of women in society and how that influences our potential unassertiveness. She just didn't go deeply enough for my liking as to the causes of unassertiveness. For a person with real, long term problems speaking up for themselves this book wouldn't be enough either. I had a real issue with the way the author seemed to suggest that all you had to do was read the book and follow her program and you could become assertive. For many it isn't that easy.	2002-07-13
US	49255792	RVS5FYP1OM2HG	0805010645	485779491	The Fall of Freddie the Leaf: A Story Of Life For All Ages	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Great resource	I used this book with a boy a worked with a few years ago. He was 9 at the time, and a close relative had died. Before a colleague showed me the book, I struggled to find the right words to comfort him with, to no avail. The experience was a first hand confrontation with the fact that our culture generally has a great deal of difficulty dealing with the issue of death. Of all the books I've read that attempt to help us deal with this problem, this one is the best. <br />This simply, poignant story about the changing of the seasons gave me a bridge to talk to the child and helped him make sense of his loss. The language is simple enough for even a young child to understand. The pictures are gorgeous. It helped him cope with and understand his loss. As well, he was inspired to read the story to his classmates (this is a boy who previously hated reading) and it created a \\"teachable moment\\" for the whole group. <br />This book is one that I would reccommend to anyone who is in contact with children. It would be an excellent addition to your personal library because it makes talking about a difficult, painful subject a great deal easier.	2002-06-28
US	49255792	R1KZON5GBNT3O	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Amazing and moving	Like many, I read this book in elementary school. It was one of the most moving, powerful experiences I've ever had. We all know the story by now. Anne Frank and her family are Jews hiding from the Nazis during World War II. The book is Anne's diary about her time in hiding.<br />Every detail of Anne's experience rang true -- there were no doubts in my mind as I read it that this truly was Anne's diary, even though I knew parts of it were missing. The way she wrote spoke to me as a human being in general, but as a 12 year old it was amazing to me to realize that this person who was going through such an awful ordeal also had some of the same feelings, experiences, emotions, worries, hopes, and dreams that I did. Anne Frank's diary encouraged me to start keeping my own. This is obviously a book about World War II, but it's also about adolescence, the human condition, families, and writing. It's possibly one of the most important books of the 20th century.	2002-06-24
US	49255792	R2ZZ9SLWT6AQRT	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	My favorite classic	This novel is the standard by which I measure all English literature classics by. It was absolutely captivating. I admit it was long and the furst few chapters seemed slow, but as the story got going the book was hard to put down. Dickens' characters really come to life. He has exceptional powers of description; whether the scene is London or Paris, the city comes to life. I felt like I was right there in the thick of things. I know from my history classes that Dickens didn't quite get the historical details all totallly right, but there's something to be said for dramatic license. He's more interested in the complex relationships, the themes of love, sacrifice, and morality. It's interesting how neither the aristocracy or the revolutionaries are necessarily shown as clear cut \\"good guys\\" - the characters have a greyness, an ambiguity, that makes the book fascinating.	2002-06-24
US	49255792	R16NA5JW1HHYT8	0201570882	318639607	Asserting Yourself: A Practical Guide For Positive Change, Updated Edition	Books	3	44	50	N	N	Not bad, but...	in many ways it's interchangeable with alot of other books on the topic of assertiveness out there. It's worth reading, certainly, I just wouldn't pay full price for it. The DESC model, and the quiz at the beginning to help the reader determine how assertive s/he currently is are great. The material on self esteem and stress were boring to me; I'd seen it before with other sources. Chapters 4 and 5 were the best; they got into the exercises/activities and the DESC model. The remaining chapters weren't as strong. The book started to drag at that point. That said, I do like that the author gave the reader alot of opportunity for practice; the exercises themselves are good. I just wish that there'd been more actual content and information. She could've done a supplemental workbook to include all the extra exercises.	2002-06-22
US	49255792	R3RJNEF09HJO54	0688166253	54262434	The Purpose of Your Life: Finding Your Place In The World Using Synchronicity, Intuition, And Uncommon Sense	Books	3	30	40	N	N	Good, not great	Carol Adrienne is a pretty good writer. I was interested in her life story, but I couldn't particularly relate to it. I wanted more actual ideas and theory and things I could do to help me, and less focus on her story. Some of the activities were thought provoking and rewarding. She also had some good resources listed in the footnotes. No bibliography, however, which was frustrating. A bibliography would've made it faster to find the particular resources that I was looking for in terms of my future reading. I think that people who enjoyed the Celestine Prophecy (which I haven't read) may like this book. It wasn't particularly what I was looking for, although it wasn't awful by any means.	2002-06-01
US	49255792	R2WQBKRM5UFS8O	0312970986	22929164	The Hyperactivity Hoax: How to Stop Drugging Your Child and Find Real Medical Help	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Some valid points, but....	overall the book isn't one that adds up. Walker seems to vacilate between suggesting ADHD simply doesn't exist -- that it is always the symptom of an underlying problem -- and saying that there may be something to it if no underlying disorder can be found, but Ritalin isn't the answer. I found myself getting confused in spots about what he really believes.<br />His points about Ritalin are well made. He's absolutely correct in stating that it can be a risky drug for children to be on, that we haven't done enough appropriate longitudinal research, and that the side effects for some children can be problematic, at best. The key words, however, are some children. I know children who are on the drug who aren't having any problems with it. The whole issue of what is a cause and what is an effect is a confusing one, and this book doesn't make it any clearer. <br />In terms of the safety of Ritalin, the research and studies Dr. Walker mentions are based on such small sample sizes that they can't be taken as proof. His writing suggested to me that he was attempting to suggest causal relationships when he only had enough evidence to point out a correlation. <br />Now, Dr. Walker's points about HMOs and the lack of proper diagnosis of children are ones I can completely agree with. It's in this area that his evidence and argument is the strongest. He does a good job of explaining the different possible non ADHD causes of hyperactive behaviour. I did find this part of the book a bit long, however. <br />The latter parts of the book, dealing with advocating for your child with medical and educational professionals, is the most effective and useful part of the book. I would give the book two stars simply for the chapter where he gives readers observation sheets to fill out and give to the doctor as a basis for a proper medical examination. His advice on dealing with these professionals is sound and easy to implement -- he takes alot of the mystery and fear out of working with doctors and teachers. I would have like to see him encourage readers more to press for wider societal change, such as loosening the grip of HMOs and relieving some of the pressure on our schools -- changes that can only occur on a legislative/cultural level -- rather than simply pitting parents against doctors and teachers, however. <br />This book is worth looking at if you know nothing other causes of hyperactive behavior. It's got some useful information, but I wouldn't make it the only book I read on the subject.	2002-06-01
US	49255792	R1IUIS6DV9MJM6	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Liked it better than the first book!	This was a really terrific, funny book. Other reviews have done a good job of summarizing the plot. Becky and her boyfriend Luke are moving to New York so he can set up a new office there, and Becky's shopping gets out of hand again, creating disaster. It's not a complicated book at all. But that's not a bad thing -- this is a terrific book to curl up in bed with, or to take to the beach with you. I found myself laughing out loud a great deal more than the first. Becky's attempts to sneak in her purchases without anyone seeing are hilarious, and something I could relate to. Her experience at the wedding of an old family friend was also true to life (on a bigger scale, obviously -- you have to read it to understand). I thought Becky was much more well developed and I liked her a great deal more in this book. She still lies, but somehow her lies don't seem quite as awful. She has more confidence and she takes charge of her life more -- I really liked how she handled herself when everything fell apart. I like Luke, although he still could've used more depth. Overall this was a really good book that I think most women would enjoy.	2002-06-01
US	49255792	R1UP4ECA46SN4Q	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Interesting, but far too long	My aunt gave this book to me as a teen because she knew I was interested in political thought, and as a radical right winger, she thought the book would help me understand some of her beliefs. In that sense, the book was a success. I did get a clear understanding of Objectivism. <br />The thing I didn't like was that the book was a political diatribe masquerading as a movel. Rand didn't need to try to mask her discussion of ideology in a novel; it wasn't a particularly interesting novel to begin with, in my opinion. There really wasn't much of a plot, and what plot there was seemed confusing and fuzzy. The characters were extremely one dimensional. I couldn't relate to them, and I didn't care about what happened to them. I was especially disappointed because I so enjoyed We The Living, another novel by Rand.  The pace of the book was quite slow, and it was far, far too long -- over 1000 pages.<br />I think there is value in learning about Rand's philosophy - she was an influential thinker. But this book isn't he best way to go about it. Read a book on objectivism, or a biography of Rand. If you want to see what Rand is capable of as a novelist, read We The Living.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R295ZHMROW6FIB	1852427256	984421874	The Piano Teacher	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Chilling	This book is not for everyone -- I was disturbed by all the graphic violence in it, particularly in the last quarter. The only reason I'm not giving it five stars, in fact, is that I think the author went a bit farther than necessary with the violence.<br />That one point aside, the novel is a good one. The characters of Walter, and Erica in particular, are tragic. Their relationship is twisted, but I could understand how he got caught up in her web, and why she acted the way she did. Erica is absolutely fascinating. Her relationship with her mother is oustandingly portrayed. What was interesting was that the author was able to make me empathise with all the characters, no matter how depraved their actions were on some level.<br />The book was somewhat like seeing a car wreck -- I wanted to turn away, and yet I was compelled to keep reading. The quality of the imagery, be it a bird singing or a theatre showing a pornographic film, was stunning. Jellinek was also extremely deft in her use of symbols -- the book is rife with symbolism.<br />If you can handle the graphic violence, this book is definitely worth taking the time to read.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R36ISCAADYXAV7	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Best sci fi I've read	I didn't expect to like this book - I read it because it was assigned to me in school years ago. It stuck with me. Bradbury is a deft satirist -- he makes many excellent points about modern society through his allegorical look at the exploration on Mars. I found the book fascinating, challenging, and yet not too hard to read. I don't particularly like the use of the short story format -- I think if he'd written it as a novel rather than interconnected short stories, it would've worked even better. I also found it a bit violent at times; I'd have preferred to have the violence be a bit more implied than stated. But overall, I think this is an important work that everyone, sci fi fan or not, should probably read for the underlying message about accepting others. The book is as relevant today as it was when it was first published.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R32C0AITHY3OMI	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Best Rand book I've read	I thought this was an excellent novel. If you have issues with Rand's political ideology (I certainly tend to disagree with her) there is still much to enjoy about this novel. Don't prejudge the novel and decide not to read it because you dislike Rand. The story is genuinely moving and the characters, particularly the main character, are well drawn. I understood why she felt the way she did, and why she made the choices she did. Rand created some very evocative images in the novel -- I felt like I was there. I got totally pulled into the story. I can't say that the picture of Communist Russia at that time is particularly accurate or not, as I don't have enough knowledge on the subject to comment on that. I read the book because I was interested in the story, and the characters, not the politics. It does, however, raise some good, thought provoking questions about the dangers of totalitarianism. Thus, I can reccommend the book on two levels -- it will satisfy readers who just love a good story, and those who are interested in politcal systems and political ideology. The book might be hard to track down, but it will be worth the effort.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R104WV0TTWP9VK	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic!	This story is a simple one in many ways. It's about the Depression, class relations, friendship, and how we treat people with disabilities. It has as much relevance today as it did when it first came out. I read it years ago, and I still remember it. As another reviewer mentioned, it says a great deal about the importance of Steinbeck's message that Lenny has been recreated in so many Warner Brothers cartoons -- he's an archetypical character.<br />I loved how vividly Steinbeck brought the reader back to the Great Depression. He really showed how difficult that time period was, and the way the &quot;American Dream&quot; has been sold to people who will likely never reach it. The relationship between Lenny and George was absolutely wonderful -- I loved that George did try to take care of Lenny, even if I didn't like how he treated him at times. All the characters were full bodied, three dimensional people. The choices Steinbeck had them make seemed sensible. This novel is essentially flawless, and I would reccommend it to anyone over the age of about 12 -- it does have some rather serious themes, so readers who are very young, even if they can read it (its' written in fairly simple language) might find some parts disturbing. If you didn't read this book in high school, read it now -- you'll be glad you did.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R3SXATMO45EMY1	0897330862	177491067	Little Man, What Now?	Books	4	38	42	N	N	Quite good	This novel provides an interesting look at Germany in the years between World War I and II. As I read it and saw got an understanding of the depths of economic depression the country was in, I began to have a better grasp of how Hitler was able to mesmerize the nation and take power -- he spoke in a way that made people think he'd restore their pride and prosperity. <br />The story itself is fairly basic. I liked how Fallada wrapped the lessons about history and the economic/political situation around the simple tale of a young couple trying to raise a family and survive in the Depression. The characters were a little stereotypical and could have had more depth, but in general they were quite interesting. The pace of the novel was good. The book was a bit long, but Fallada is a good enough writer that it didn't bother me too much. This book is a good read that any history buff will certainly enjoy.	2002-05-21
US	49255792	R1HLONMFCTEKDY	0684811286	4201275	Lifebalance	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Useful	This book describes more than just how to manage time -- as the title suggests, it's a holistic approach to attaining balance in one's entire life. The ideas in it are practical without being overly simplistic. The authors have a clear writing style, so that it's easy to follow what they are saying. The book starts with two short quizzes to help the reader determine what areas of their life might require more balance. The authors use examples liberally to illustrate their points. These examples are clear and relevant. <br />My one complaint about the book was that the authors did, at times, seem to try to push readers into purchasing materials from them to implement the Lifebalance system. The only resources they mention at the end of the book are their own materials -- I would've liked a full bibliography/suggested readings section. It is only this complaint that is keeping me from giving the book 5 stars. Despite this caveat, I still think this book is worthwhile. It would be a help to anyone who is trying to live a more rewarding life that allows them to achieve succes at work without sacrificing family time.	2002-05-09
US	49255792	R1PF0SLMWDEDR7	0684855275	301394882	How to Work with Just About Anyone: A 3-Step Solution for Getting Difficult People to Change	Books	3	35	40	N	N	Pretty good	I read a great deal of personal growth/self help books. This one has some good ideas, but it's not as good as alot of ones I've read. I must admit that Gill is a good, clear writer, and that she obviously understands the underlying theory that her suggestions are based on.  She uses alot of examples to illustrate her points. The book is well laid out and easy to follow. I particularly like that it contains a summary of the steps at the end. The author also provides a (too brief) bibliography to give readers a chance to get more information and support in using the techniques presented.<br />Despite the fact that the book does have good points, and some people will probably find it useful, I didn't find it particularly helpful for me overall (although I did agree with certain points -- notably, the idea that people have a tendency to repeat the same mistakes). It's too short, and I find that the techniques she suggests, which are based on the work of Brief Therapists such as Paul Wazlawick, are too cognitively based  -- I have an admitted bias against cognitive behaviourism. In my experience, some of the techniques she suggests are superficial and they don't lead to long term change. They don't get to the root of the issues between people and really allow you to connect and improve the relationship. If you want to do that, this book won't help. <br />If you just want to get along well enough to achieve a task, and aren't really interested in the long term health of the relationship or achieving true communication, some of the ideas here might work. But this approach deals with the symptoms, it doesn't get to the root of problems. Some would go so far as to say it involves being manipulative -- I'm not sure. <br />If you have some familiarity with solution focused therapy/thinking, and you generally believe in the benefits of that orientation, you will find this book of value. If, like me, you prefer a more humanistic, person-centred theory, you likely won't get as much out of this book. I'm glad I read it, and I did take a few ideas from it, but I've already put it in my &quot;to give away&quot; bag.	2002-05-09
US	49255792	R2LYZE7DJOD7ZB	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Good solid fun	I can understand why people raved about this book. I did enjoy it. I read it in one sitting one rainy afternoon. Fielding is a good writer. She devised really good characters who had some depth. I was particularly impressed with how clearly and consistently she was able to create Bridget. The author's voice didn't sneak through at all, and that is harder to do in an novel than many realize. <br />I found I liked Bridget. She was self effacing, introspective, and not as whiny as the lead character in Arabella Weir's book, &quot;Does My Bum Look Big In This&quot; (which I have also reviewed).  Her concerns around diet, her love life, her job, and her relationship with her parents were things I could relate to. <br />The thing I found was a letdown was that the book wasn't as funny as I had heard. I also found that it was somewhat predictable. Despite that, I'm glad I read the book, and if you haven't read it, it's worth picking up a used copy. I like Bridget and I'm interested in her enough that I'll read the sequel.	2002-05-08
US	49255792	R15ZFYBUEZ2UAM	0385491085	435305448	Lady Oracle	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Not qute good as her others	I love Margaret Atwood. She's one of my favorite authors. This book didn't quite live up to my expectations of her. I thought the main character, Joan, was great. Very well developed. I related to her and I cared what happened to her. As usual, the best parts of this book were the sections that dealt with Joan's complicated family relationships, her romantic life, and her childhood. Nobody can understand the complexities of female friendship better than Atwood. Atwood uses flashbacks to tell the story -- she's one of the best at using this technique so that the reader doesn't get lost. The first half to two thirds of the book was terrific. <br />I found that the way Atwood wrapped up the novel was frustrating. The plot got a little too weird for me. I'm used to her writing being very grounded, and the latter sections of this book didn't live up to that. I found I was required to suspend disbelief far more than I wanted to or was able to. I got pulled out of the text whenever Atwood would show as an excerpt from one of Joan's novels. <br />Despite the things that irritated and/or distracted me, I still think this is a worthwhile book. By Atwood standards, it's probably only 3 stars -- I thought Cat's Eye and The Robber Bride were much better. But even at her worst, Atwood is a gifted writer, so this book is one that is highly readable.	2002-05-08
US	49255792	R2G1LNOELC2PLF	0395900239	253579141	Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed (A Five Little Monkeys Story)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hilarious!	This is a terrific book. Any book my three year old cousin likes to have read to her more than once is a winner in my book. She's memorized the story to the point that she can recite it even without the book nearby. And she loves the pictures. We have a great laugh and a whole lot of fun whenever we read this book. It's a book that's also been used at a summer reading program I volunteered at one year, and the students thought it was great. They were ages 5-8. This book would be a great addition to a child's library.	2002-04-27
US	49255792	R3NF58R9LZFRR6	1558741127	501140521	Adult Children of Alcoholics	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Worthwhile effort	This book offers an excellent overview and introduction to the impact of growing up in a family where one or both parents abuse alcohol. It is a terrific resource for counselors or individuals alike. The book gives readers excellent information to help them make changes in their lives. The vignettes give the book a more personal feel. It doesn't come across like a dry, academic textbook. I found that the information made sense and was quite useful. It helped me grow and come to terms with some things from my childhood. <br />Counselors who read the book will find that it is short on theory. It's also a little shorter and more general than I would like. The author does make some broad generalizations. It would be worth reading as a text to guide discussion in a support group. It could also be given to clients to augment individual counseling/therapy.  Some of the stories may give a professional added insight that a college course, which is by its very nature more theoretical and academic, may not provide. <br />Despite the few flaw I've noted, this is a very worthwhile book for either laypersons who grew up in a home where alcohol was a problem, or for the professionals who seek to support and help them.	2002-04-27
US	49255792	R20TKYX3MPMTB2	0399208534	907291850	The Very Hungry Caterpillar	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Educational and fun!	This book is another one I discovered while working in a elementary school. It was a big hit with the K - Gr. 2 kids. They thought the story was interesting. The author actually does a good job of making the caterpillar a character kids could invest in. They wanted to know what was going to happen to it. Would it ever stop eating? The book also helped the children who were having trouble learning the days of the week and counting. Loved the art work, too. Some of the more advanced kids were had lots of questions about the science of the caterpillar turning into a butterfly. This is is just a wonderful book that young boys and girls really enjoy. If you child hasn't read the story yet, it's a must have!	2002-04-27
US	49255792	R1BHUAFAW42R1Y	0394800168	328733059	Green Eggs and Ham	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My favorite Seuss book!	This is a terrific book for kids. They love the story. It's easy to memorize, and funny, like all Seuss books. What I like best about this one is that it has a great message that is really easy for children to understand. I have used it to convince children to try something new that they were convinced they would hate, be it a food or an activity. The pictures are terrific, too! Anyone under the age of 6 will love this book, although it's terrific for the 3-5 year range.	2002-04-27
US	49255792	RN8CZ1SOO2PI1	0394800133	832870420	One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish (I Can Read It All by Myself)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great book!	This book is great for the under five set. My 3 year old cousin loves it, as did my younger brother when he was a child. The book is funny and Seuss's use of rhyme helps children with word recognition. It's a terrific book for a beginning reader. My cousin has it memorized now. She's never gotten tired of it. I have found that even children who are in school will like the book if they are still a beginning reader, because it is so colorful, easy to memorize, and the rhymes are great. If your youngster doesn't have this book already, I highly reccommend that you pick it up for him/her.	2002-04-27
US	49255792	R196CMPFM2NNZE	0684853027	736882669	Run Catch Kiss: A Gratifying Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Boring	I barely finished this book, and I was extremely disappointed. I was looking forward to reading the novel, as I'm a huge fan of the TV show Sex in the City, and I'm a fan of the \\"20/30 something female looking for love\\" genre. But this book fell flat. Some of the events were mildly amusing, but not funny enough to warrant the length of the book. The foul language seemed [unreal] -- as though it was there more to shock the reader than anything. The sex scenes were boring. And, worst of all, there was no character development at all. Even some of the flimiest novels I've read paid some attention to giving the characters a bit of depth. The Ariel was absolutely one of the most annoying characters I've ever read about. I None of her relationships rang true. I just didn't care what happened to her. I really wouldn't reccommend this book to anyone.	2002-04-25
US	49255792	R3LI8VEXAEQENU	0553210246	573665066	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Loved this book!	I read this novel in English class, like most people probably did. It was one of the best assigned to us.<br />Hardy is a gifted author. He writes in a clear style with vivid descriptions that really bring the setting alive, without making the reader (at least this reader) feel inundated with borning, unnecessary detail.<br />The thing that I look for most in a novel, however, is quality characterizeations, and this book had them in spades. Dialogue was used effectively to flesh out characters. These are not stock characters, either. These  people have flaws and shades of grey. They seem as though they could be real. I found that I could relate to the characters, and I did empathize with them, even when I didn't agree with their choices. Everyone had clear motivations. The characterization of Henchard shows that Hardy clearly understood the notion of the tragic flaw and the tragic hero/anti hero.<br />Students who have to read this book as part of their English class may find it a bit on the long side. I would urge you to stick with it; once you get through the initial chapters the book will pick up (a commonality that all British classics seem to share). The book is easy to follow and understand. It is a key novel that marks the shift from Romantic Age to the Victorian Age, so it's an important read for anyone who has a serious interest in English Literature.	2002-04-21
US	49255792	R17A7P6Y4F1HJI	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A childhood favorite	I read this book when I was about 9 or 10. Up until that time, even though I was a good reader, I didn't particularly enjoy it. Tolkien showed me just how powerful literature could be, and I haven't stopped reading since.<br />What I enjoyed the most about this book was the well developed, three dimensional characters. I could almost picture them in my mind. Tolkein had a gift for creating imagery that is beautiful and realistic. His use of language totally enraptured me and kept me engrossed in the story.<br />What's really neat about this book, as well, is that I think it will have as much appeal to girls as it does to boys. That has not been the case in other fantasy-type books I've read. In fact, this novel is really the only one of it's genre that I've ever enjoyed. So, don't be put off if you think you don't like fantasy. I would also note that there is an abridged version with illustrations that younger children (I saw a grade one class sit totally still as their teacher read from it to them) will likely enjoy. Despite being pegged by some as a &quot;kid's book&quot;, however, this book is actually one that will appeal to readers of all ages.	2002-04-21
US	49255792	R1EICPDO9LMT50	0140089225	354380790	The Bone People: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A masterful must read!	The Bone People is, quite simply, the most powerful, moving, stunning book I have ever read. The characters are well drawn. I wanted to hate Joe, but he was in so much pain that I couldn't, really. I never excused what he did - and Hulme did not ask the reader to do that. She challenges the reader to look at our society as a whole; to see what we do to people and how we as communities play a role in creating some of the violent, terrible situations that result in children being abused. <br />I know that some people found that the mysticism in the latter section of the novel took away from the book. I disagree. I found that it fit in well with the story and helped flesh out some of the messages the author was trying to get across. Some of the imagery in this novel is absolutely breathtaking. I have never been so utterly moved and transfixed by a novel as I have by this one. It challenged my perceptions and it made me a different person when I was finished it.<br />The book is quite long, and it can be slow in a few spots. I found that I had to read it twice. I admit I did hate Joe the first time I read the novel; I really only began to understand him the second time I read the book. This is a complex, multi-layered work that speaks to a wide range of issues: child abuse, spirituality, community, and culture. <br />I highly recommend this novel to everyone. You may not like it or agree with it, but you will be impacted by it. It still haunts me today.	2002-04-14
US	49255792	R2C6Z89HQIRQ6D	1573440949	668016149	The Wall	Books	5	24	26	N	N	On my all time top 10 list	I read The Wall because it was assigned to me as part of a German Women Writers in Translation course. Wait... don't stop reading, quite yet... I had reservations about the novel when I first started it, because I thought it would either be dull and boring, or it would be too much like science fiction/fantasy or a nature novel, two genres I don't enjoy most of the time. It is neither.<br />This novel is actually a portrait of courage. As others have said, the unnamed author finds that she is the last person left after a nuclear holocaust. She is protected by an invisible shield and must learn to survive on her own. <br />The woman copes by writing a diary of her situation. She tell us,  on the first page: \\"I'm not writing for the sheer joy of writing; so many things have happened to me that I  must write if I am not to lose my reason.\\" <br />The narrator comes across as very honest and the story is very moving. As she writes, \\"I can't think who I should lie to today. I can allow myself to write the truth; all the people for whom I have lied throughout my life are dead.\\"<br />There are wonderful passages throughout the novel; my book is covered in highlighter pen because so many lines stood out. The process the author goes through to come to terms with what has happened and survive is realistic and gripping. The portrait of nature is quite captivating. <br />Overall, this novel has an important message about what it means to be human. It speaks to the need to work for peace; to come together to avoid creating a situation where this novel could actually take place. It is an important work that I believe everyone who is concerned for the future of our planet should read. You will be moved and you will be changed by this book.	2002-04-14
US	49255792	RMQSJX2ZTMI91	0374518440	135227053	Patterns of Childhood	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Brilliant	This novel is Christa Wolf's fictionalized account of growing up in Nazi Germany. This is a story about war, history, memory, and learning from our mistakes. It is positively gripping. The author  manages, as another reviewer noted, to show that the tyranny of the Nazi regime was difficult for non-Jews as well as Jews, without in any way minimizing the horror of the Holocaust. I literally couldn't put this book down in parts.. it is that powerful. Wolf doesn't sentimentalize the story. She makes all the people in the book seem real. The descriptions of events were so real that  felt as though I was there. I have been forever changed by this book. It has given me new insight not only into WWII, but also into myself, because it's given me a way to look into my own past. As Wolf writes, \\"What is past is not dead; it is not even past. We cut ourselves off from it; we pretend to be strangers.\\" Ultimately, this passage sums up the theme of the movel, and, as a result, it broadens the scope of the book so that it has a message for everyone, even beyond its obvious messages about war and Nazism. <br />Those interested in history, or psychology, or who like character driven novels, will likely love this book. I know that it is not easily available. Despite that, I urge you to try to find a copy, be it through your local library or through a used book store.	2002-04-14
US	49255792	RJ4PI9DAWGRS6	0860682218	441960580	The Quest for Christa T. (VMC)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Heartbreaking	This is a difficult book to describe. The author is writing about the life of a woman she knew who is destroyed by life under the communist regime in East Germany. It speaks to the reader about the dangers of totalitarianism, the freedom and beauty of the human spirit, and about relationships. The relationship between the author and the title character is in itself interesting. She is trying to keep the memory of Christa alive, and  yet the author seems to say at times that she doesn't know if she even really knew Christa. As usual, this novel has alot of Wolf's brilliant examinations of the nature of memory -- memory is a recurring theme in all her novels. Wolf's gifts for language, imagery, and insight are stunning. The translation is well done. This is one of the best books I've ever read. I highly reccommend it.	2002-04-14
US	49255792	R25J4B2HBZ8WKM	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Fun, but nothing that special	Confessions of a Shopaholic is a book I can heartily recommend if you're looking for a light read. It screams \\"beach read.\\" I read it in a few hours. I did like the main character of Becky. I thought she was funny and she had a certain charm to her. I could relate to her obsession with shopping, although I'm glad mine doesn't go quite as far! The book is fast paced, and it genuinely did make me laugh out loud on quite a few occasions. Kinsella is quite a clever, articulate writer; I literally cringed for Becky at times. The author really got me caught up in the action; I felt as though I was there, spying on someone. Given how talented she is, I would like to Kinsella her try some serious fiction in the future. <br />The downside to this book is that it is very fluffy - more so than it needed to be. I understand that Kinsella was going for a comic novel, and I still believe she could've explored the issue of Becky's compulsive spending in a bit more depth. Even Bridget Jones was introspective at times. Kinsella didn't do that with Becky enough, and when she did it didn't ring true - it seemed tacked on. I found that the novel was predictable at times, although this didn't bother me as much as it has with other books. <br />In general, I think that this is a book that most single women in their 20s and early 30s will enjoy. It is fun, quick, and lighthearted. I would recommend buying the book used if you can, because it isn't the kind of book that I could imagine rereading. It's as light as air, or cotton candy, and once it's finished, it is easily forgotten.	2002-04-05
US	49255792	R2HQY4LSTSD1X3	0684825791	346025063	The Rendezvous	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful, heartfelt, lyrical novel	...The author does an wonderful job of making the protagonist sympathetic without vilefying the mother. My heart went out to the girl as she sat and waited for her mother, knowing, on some level, that she wasn't going to arrive. The use of flashbacks to tell the story of the girl's childhood neglect by her mother is well done. Some of the descriptions are captivating. It is amazing how much depth that the characters have, given that the story is really an interior monologue from one person's perspective. This is a book about hurt, disappointment, hope, regret and loss. Even if the reader hasn't experienced the sort of neglect that the lead character does, we can relate to her pain -- the emotions she is feeling are ones we have all felt at one time or another, for one reason or another. As such, the device of not giving her a name works really well. <br />This book may be hard to find now, but I strongly reccommend that you make the effort,  ...(it seemed more like a short story than a novel), so as well written as it is, I can understand why a person wouldn't want to spend too much to get it.	2002-03-30
US	49255792	R33NYUEG8NEVWB	042511774X	595375829	Breathing Lessons	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Beautiful book	I am a huge Anne Tyler fan - I want to read her entire collection. Because this novel won a Pulitzer, I was concerned it would not live up to the hype. My concerns were unwarranted. Tyler is a highly skilled writer who is able to take ordinary people and make them both unique and interesting. She has a very important message to give readers about love, marriage, and life. The main characters are at a stage in their lives where they are looking back and trying to figure out how they got to be where they are, and where to go now. <br />I know many dislike Maggie Moran, but I didn't. I felt an incredible amount of empathy for her. She is a good person who only wants to give the people she loves hope. She sees the best in people and wants them to live up to the potential she knows they have. She is the eternal wide- eyed optimist. Clearly, Maggie is feeling lost at the thought of having an empty nest. If she doesn't someone to take care of, she doesn't know who she is or how to live. She's lost at the thought of facing middle age.  Ira is also a great character. He's Maggie's opposite. He's a pragmatic, grounded, realist.  They both have regrets about their past choices, and they need to find a way to let those go and keep moving, so that the rest of their lives can have meaning. <br />I loved the use of flashbacks in the novel. Tyler really showed the different perspectives of the characters, and she enlightened the reader as to how they came to be the people they are. I couldn't imagine Maggie or Ira turning out any differently, given their families of origin. I didn't like how Ira treated his son, Jesse, but I could understand it, because Tyler gives me enough background about Ira's youth to make it fit.  I could feel the love and connection between Maggie and Ira, even when they were at their most frustrated with each other. There's a wonderful line in a Reader's Digest essay on love I once read that sums up Maggie and Ira's marriage: \\"We sometimes could have killedeach other, but we never could have left each other.\\" Maggie and Ira need each other's different perspectives. <br />There were a few things missing from the novel. I did wish at times that we could've had more information about what really happened between Jesse and his ex-wife. I still don't quite understand why they broke up, and I was intrigued by those characters enough that I want to know, even though I realized that this is Maggie and Ira's story. I also wanted to know more about Daisy. What was her place in the family? How did she interact with her mother? This is one of the few novels I've read that actually could have been longer.	2002-03-30
US	49255792	R3EKGNA3OKSDEW	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Beautiful	Although there are already alot of reviews of this book, I have to add my voice. This novel is one of my favorites of all time. I couldn't put it down. The struggles between the mothers and daughters to understand one another and relate to one another is something I can relate to, as I think many women can, even though many readers will not relate to the cultural issues. The relationship between a mother and daughter is one of humanity's most complex, and Tan does an exquisite job of capturing the dynamic. I could relate to the struggles of the four daughters to connect with and live up to the expectations of their mothers. I also loved the imagery in the novel; it is some of the most beautiful, lyrical prose I have ever had the pleasure to read. I highly reccommend this book -- it should especially appeal to women who have had complex, occassionally conflictual, relationships with their mothers.	2002-03-30
US	49255792	R8Y0Q5Y6JL81L	0452268060	459663146	How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents (Plume Contemporary Fiction)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Not on par with Amy Tan	How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents is an intriguing exploration of cultural and generational conflicts. I read it because I loved &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; by Amy Tan. That novel made me feel intrigued by the notion of cultural clashes, and how children and parents deal with such conflicts.<br />Alvarez was able to create well-rounded characters who were interesting to me as a reader. I was really engrossed in the girl's journey to adjust to the culture shock of living in America. Some of the imagery in the novel was captivating. Alvarez really pulled me in; I could totally picture some of the events in the novel taking place. I also liked the device of starting in the present and working backwards to the girls' childhood. Each of the characters had a unique voice; they were all distinct and true to life.<br />I do wish that the book were a novel rather than a collection of short stories. I think that some of the characters deserved more \\"airtime\\". The book seemed more like a string of vignettes than a real story. As well rounded as the characters were, there were some, such as the mother, that I would like to have known more about. Even the girls could have been developed more. Some of the chapters/stories were a little boring, too. <br />Overall, if you are interested in how people adapt to new cultures, and the notion of intergenerational conflict, there will likely be something in this novel you will enjoy. It is well written and worth the time it will take to read it, even though it is slow in parts.	2002-03-30
US	49255792	R390162HI5YB70	0425167283	430499125	Election	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nothing spectacular	First, I should note that I have not yet seen this movie. This is not a bad book, per se. I read it quite quickly. Perotta is a decent writer. The action flows really well, and he does a good job of hooking the reader into the story. The problem is that the book is superficial. It is too short to really examine the characters in depth and give the reader any real insight of value into their motivations. Tracy and Mr. M needed a great deal more depth. I didn't get invested in any of the characters. I didn't care what happened to them. I found that as much as I enjoyed the book when I was reading it, it didn't stay with me when it was over<br />I would say that the book is worth reading, if you haven't seen the movie. In fact, I now really want to see the film -- I could totally picture Matthew Broderick and Reese Witherspoon in their roles. I wouldn't, however, rush to read the book, or spend alot of money on it. If you can find a cheap used copy, or it's available in your local library and there's nothing else available that you're dying to read, this book is certainly worth reading -- it won't take long, and it is engrossing. Just don't expect it to be anything special.	2002-03-30
US	49255792	R30BDT22MC9E6L	0609605356	360307071	In Pursuit of Happiness : Better Living from Plato to Prozac	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fascinating	Kingwell's book is a very interesting exploration of the nature of happiness. He explores a wide variety of theories from different philosophers, as well as some pyschologists. Ultimately, he concludes that Aristotle's definition is best. Aristotle has always confused me, and Kingwell is the first author who has ever explained him in a way that made sense to me. <br />The author's writing style is clear and concise. He has a good sense of humor, and I liked the way he tied popular culture, philosophy, and personal examples together. The book wasn't dry, dull and boring, the way philosphy can be at times.<br />There is only one reason that I can't give the book five stars. I found that Kingwell rambled a bit, and he lost track of his point. Overall, however, I think the book is really worthwhile, and I would encourage anyone who is interested in philosophy to pick up a copy of the book.	2002-03-20
US	49255792	R3BM0BG9C3B60B	0060923288	862951241	Raising Your Spirited Child: A Guide for Parents Whose Child Is More Intense, Sensitive, Perceptive, Persistent, Energetic	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent resource	This is one of my favorite books for parents. It is geared toward parents who children who have been labelled hyperactive or attention deficit disordered. The author doesn't like negative labels, and gives parents ways to focus on the positive aspects of their children's temperment. The author clearly understands both temperment and child development. <br />The techniques are sensible, practical, and easy to implement. The writing style is clear and concise. The author uses alot of really good examples that make sense and that most people can relate to. The book is one that I, as a practitioner who works with children and families, consider a vital part of my professional library. I highly reccommend it both parents and people who work with children.	2002-03-20
US	49255792	R2D1TQRYXDV3UI	0684857073	377398184	The NURTURE ASSUMPTION: Why Children Turn Out the Way They Do	Books	3	7	18	N	N	Boring	I read this book because I am a child and youth care worker, and I think it is important to read materials that are influencing current thinking. As a practioner, I am glad I read this book, even though I fundamentally disagree with the author on pretty much every point. I think it is important to consider the impact that peer relations have on child development. But Harris misses the mark. <br />Harris is undoubtedly right that peers do have a strong influence over how children develop. However, her thesis is so extreme that it is simplistic. Children are socialized by any number of agents -- parents, peers, teachers, the media, etc -- and the effect is reciprocal. She completely ignores the work of great thinkers like Urie Bronfenbrenner (sp??) who uses systems theory to explain socialization. As well, as another reviewer suggested, the fact that some of the studies she attacks have flaws (and the author is quite right in asserting that) does not mean that their hypotheses are necessarily wrong. She doesn't go far enough to prove that. The only way she could prove that, in fact, would be to attempt to replicate the research, attempting to rectify any design flaws. Some of the studies she quotes to lay out her thesis are equally flawed. <br />The quality of the actual writing is poor. The author's attempts at humor tend to fall flat. She repeats herself far too much. It takes far too long to get to her thesis, and once she finally does, it takes forever to get to the end of the book. The author needed a good editor. <br />This book is not one I would reccommend to parents. I would reccommend that practitioners give the book a glance simply because Harris's ideas do seem to be having an impact on the current culture. Just don't look for any real answers in this book; it is too simplistic and extreme for that.	2002-03-09
US	49255792	R36EIXIMVO90XR	0684833328	338713165	The Moral Sense (Free Press Paperback)	Books	4	27	32	N	N	Makes you think	I normally wouldn't give a book that is this slow such a high rating. Some of the chapters are longer than they need to be. Despite that, Wilson's argument is so interesting that it is worth struggling through some rather difficult writing to try to understand it. <br />Wilson is making a very conservative argument that argues that everyone is born with an innate moral sense, but that the family is key to socializing children to express that basic human nature. He uses extensive reference materials to back up his argument. In the end, I wasn't convinced that his thesis was correct, but he made me consider possibilities and arguments that I had not contemplated in the past. Some of his arguments about women were clearly sexist, and he didn't back it up in a way that made it seem like anything more than anti-feminist rhetoric. Overall,  however, some of what he said did make sense. The book made me think, which a decent philosophical essay ought to do. <br />If you are willing to read a book you might not agree with, and you are interested in philosophy/morality, this book is worth the effort.	2002-03-08
US	49255792	R2SPO5BWKQCQDL	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Wonderful	Emma is the first Jane Austen novel I ever read, and 13 years later it's still my favorite. It's also the most accessible, easy to read Austen novel. I literally could not put this book down. I thought all the characters, especially Emma, were wonderful. The title character, whie arrogant, was well meaning in her attempts to play matchmaker for the people around her. I could really relate to her, because I recognized that I've met people like her. She was at once funny, well intentioned, spoiled, controlling, and sweet. This book is really funny. The introduction is very useful in helping the reader keep all the events of the story straight. As well, it gives readers insight into the times, and into Austen's views about society. I really appreciated having the cast of characters printed at the beginning of the book, because there are alot (sometimes, it seems, too many) characters inhabiting the book. Because each person in the novel is so distinct and well drawn, the occasional confusion is worth it. I highly reccommend this book to anyone!	2002-02-11
US	49255792	R3W0WWBOESKOSK	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of my favorite Austen novels	I found Pride and Prejudice an engrossing and well written novel. The book gives modern readers insight into the Victorian society, morality, and etiquette. The novel is made up of fascinating, well-developed three-dimensional characters. I loved Darcy and Elizabeth; although both were flawed people, they also had an essential humanity and goodness to them that made me root for them to get together. I thought the way Elizabeth's feelings for Darcy evolved was very realistic. I admired Darcy's love for his sister, and his strength, while finding myself frustrated by his arrogance and aloofness. I thought Elizabeth was a heroine modern women could relate to - she had fire, confidence and forthrightness.<br />I also enjoyed the complex relationships between the various characters, be it Jane and Elizabeth, Elizabeth and Mr. Bennett, and Mr. and Mrs. Bennett. What I liked was that even the characters we weren't meant to like, such as Lady Catherine, were not one-dimensional  (this isn't the case in Mansfield Park). I was just as interested in finding out what would happen to Lydia and Jane as I was in the relationship between Elizabeth and Darcy. The one complaint I have here is that I wish that Darcy and Elizabeth had gotten closer sooner, so that the conflict with Lady Catherine could have been a bigger part of the novel. There were events that I wish had occurred earlier so that more time could have been spent on them - the novel got off to a slow start.<br />That said, overall this novel has much better pacing than other classic literature I have read (notably Mansfield Park). The author does provide a great deal of detail and description, but she is such a good writer, and the prose is so captivating, that I didn't mind at all. The dialogue is superb. The novel had a lot of charming, funny moments. The uses of satire and irony were exceedingly well done; Austen is the master of this sort of comedy of manners.	2002-02-11
US	49255792	R1DOISDOJM8FLD	0140157352	307913571	Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Essential reading	This is the first book I've read on the issue of negotiation. The book is easy to read, and the authors use good, solid examples to illustrate the techniques they are teaching. The end of the book, with it's summary review, really pulls it all together. The writing style is clean, clear, and simple, without being so simplistic as to seem unbelieveable.<br />The authors try to show readers how to remain objective in negotiations, rather than letting their emotions take control. The speak of being \\"soft on people and hard on principles\\", the idea of staying focussed on the problem and not attacking or blaming people. The parts I found most useful are the notions of focussing on interests rather than positions, and finding alternatives that will allow both parties in the negotiation to gain something. The idea of moving away from positions to finding the common ground of shared interests is one that is particularly useful in that it can be applied to any situation, be it a parent/child conflict, a work situation, or any negotiation. This concept shows readers how to focus on their long term goals rather than on being \\"right\\" and winning in the short term.<br />I have used the techniques in this book to great success many times, in a variety of areas in my life. They are easy to use, and they work! I highly reccommend this classic text to everyone.	2002-02-10
US	49255792	RHGO1DT9WCMGD	0670894508	256403279	Cause Celeb	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good, though somewhat uneven	This book is about Rosie, who, after finally breaking up with her emotionally abusive boyfriend, Oliver, goes to do relief work in Africa. Because the  UN isn't sending needed supplies, the refugee camp is running out of food. Rosie has to return to London and try to get the celebrities she used to associate with to come to Africa and do a benefit. <br />What really kept me reading the book is that I really liked and empathised with Rosie. She seemed like a good person, and I could relate to her belief that she could change Oliver. Some of the scenes of their arguments were really realistic. The book was also quite amusing in parts. The London social scene was hilarious. The spoofing of celebrity was also quite humourous. Fielding has a very engaging style that allowed me to stay interested in the story. She makes some very good points about celebrity without being totally preachy.<br />I did wish that the celebrities had spent more time in Africa. The last third of the book was actually the best, when the celebrities were planning the benefit. I thought some of the more political stuff in the middle of the book dragged a bit.<br />Despite the fact that the book dragged in places, it was overall a very enjoyable read. Fielding's an excellent writer, and the story rings true to life. Definitely worth the read!!	2002-02-10
US	49255792	R36XWJOKVP1FCS	0316845132	409119786	Nurture by Nature: Understand Your Child's Personality Type - And Become a Better Parent	Books	3	67	73	N	N	Worthwhile	This book takes the Myers Briggs Type Indicator and applies it to parenting. The book is supposed to help parents identify their child's personality type, so that they can then parent them in a way that best suits the child's needs as well as the parents'.<br />I like the fact that the book shows that children are individuals, and that a one size fits all approach to parenting tends not to work. The book could really give a parent insight into a child who is vey different from the way the parent is (say, a very extroverted mom or dad who can't quite understand why his/her child would rather read a book or play with a chemistry set than go play with a group of kids). It can also help the parent understand why some discipline techniques that work really well with one child completely fail with another. The book talks about all these sorts of issues - school, discipline, overall behaviour, etc. <br />The problem I have with the book is that I think is difficult to identify some children's preferences, particularly in the more complex areas of a person's type. It's rather easy to tell if someone is an extravert vs. an introvert. Other things, like sensing vs intuitive, or judging vs. perceiving are more difficult to assess in a child. I found it hard to determine the type of the child I was thinking of. Where the book is more useful is knowing your own type, and looking at how your child might respond to it.<br />Although I'm not convinced that the Myers-Briggs Type Indictor is a valid instrument to use with children, I do believe this book can still give parents and other adults who interact with kids a good broad base of understanding of how temperment is displayed in children. For that alone, the book is worth looking at. I would reccommend getting the book out of the library and skimming a few chapters to see if you like the book and think it will be useful to you before you spend the money to purchase it outright.	2002-02-10
US	49255792	R226CLN9CIYXSF	0425176053	449481739	Come Together	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Really enjoyable	I read this book in a couple of evenings. It grabbed my attention immediately. I particularly enjoyed the he said/she said aspect of the book. It was good to hear both points of view as the relationship developed. I found that this way of writing gave the novel an added depth that it might have lacked otherwise.<br />I particularly liked the character of Amy. She was very realistic. I could relate to her her relationship with her mother and her best friend. The author really showed her as a full-fledged human being. Jack was a bit shallow, and he did some things I thought were really rotten, but I found that true to life - I know alot of guys like him, who do immature things, but don't really mean to hurt people.  I particularly liked his relationship with his best friend, Matt. <br />There were times I wondered what these two people were doing together. By the end, I did buy it, even though the conclusion of the novel was a bit cliched. I also have to say that the Jack/Matt friendship could have been fleshed out a bit. <br />Some of the events that took place in the book were absolutely hilarious!! It's the first book that made me laugh out loud in a long time. I found the novel believeable, if a bit shallow at times (you won't find much in the way of insights into relationships here; this is a light-hearted beach read). I highly reccommend this book for anyone looking for a light read.	2002-02-03
US	49255792	R711QNOOZN7Z1	0960695400	476599912	Please Understand Me: Character and Temperament Types	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Excellent	This book is one of the best Myers-Briggs books available. it explains the different types, and talks about temperment. The best part of this book is that it provides such a detailed explanation of the importance of temperments. The book is also extremely good at explaining how one's type can impact their behaviour, particularly in the area of communication, and the potential impact this can have on personal relationships. Reading this book gave me greater insight into myself and other people. The examples the authors give really helped to make the book interesting. The writing style can be dry at times. <br />I have to add two caveats: First, there is a newer book, Please Understand Me II, that has been recently released. I would have to suggest, having seen this book (although I haven't read it through, or purchased it yet) that the newer book might be more worthwhile to read first. Second, this book is really geared to people who are either very familiar with the MBTI, or who are trained facilitators who are actually able to administer the test. It is a rather technical book. It gets into a lot of detail - much more than the average reader may need, at times. This book can be slow, difficult reading at times.<br />As a result, if you aren't familiar with the MBTI, I'd have to reccommend that you start with a book like Lifetypes, or Do What You Are. Another excellent book, if you are already pretty confident about your own type and want to strengthen your ability to communicate with people who are different than you, is The Art of Speedreading People.	2002-02-03
US	49255792	R35H5YWE9EEP8S	0553569155	799625292	Seinlanguage	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hilarious	I was reluctant to read this book, because I was never a huge fan of the show Seinfeld. The reason I did read it was because the one part of the show I did like was the bits of Jerry Seinfeld doing stand up. As others have said, this book appears to be a whole bunch of different stories and monologues about life that Seinfeld's taken from his stand up material. <br />The book is very funny. Seinfeld has a gift for observation. He sees the absurdity in life and has a terrific way of finding the humor in it. The man has a way with words, as well. The book is articulate, insightful, and ironic. I could hear his voice as I read it. What makes this book such a high rating is the fact that I found it as funny the fifth time I read it as the first, which is a rarity in a humor book. <br />If you haven't already read this book, I highly reccommend it!	2002-02-03
US	49255792	RQ7WRCMFY917F	0316845183	887368262	The Art of SpeedReading People: How to Size People Up and Speak Their Language	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Most useful Myers Briggs book I own	This book not only describes the different types, it gives the reader tips on how to recognize these different types, and then helps you learn the best way of dealing with people based on their type.<br />This book does not suggest that we should manipulate others. It simply makes the point that all people are different, and it is important to try to communicate with others in a way that makes sense to them. If a listener can't understand the message you are trying to send, they argue, then you have conflict and miscommunication. Such a scenario does not benefit anyone. <br /> The first part of the book helps the reader identify their own type. This is done through a very thorough discussion of the differences in each pair of letters (E/I, S/N, T/F, and J/P), including excellent examples. This is the first Myers Briggs book I have read that allowed me to unequivocably determine my own type. The book then has descriptions of the sixteen types, as well as a discussion of temperment. I found the descriptions of the sixteen types a bit sparse, but the discussion of temperment was the best I have read. I normally find the discussion of temperment and lead functions to be the best, most easy to understand description I have ever read. <br />The sections on how to identify other people's type and keys to effectively communicating with each type were the high points of the. The authors give readers a number of exercises to practice and develop the skills they are teaching. These exercises really add to the book. The tips on communication all make sense and are easy to implement. <br />This book is almost guaranteed to help you improve your communication skills. I highly reccommend it.	2002-01-26
US	49255792	R2K6SUZK05KIEE	0920668364	195719049	Love You Forever	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Still makes me cry...	I love this book. I first read many years ago, when my much younger (12 years) brother was a child. He loved it, and I loved to read it to him. Now I read it to my 3 year old niece. I cried when I first read it, and I cry now. <br />This book is about the unconditional love between parents (and even grandparents or other family members depending how closely knit you are) and children. It speaks to the notion of knowing that the bond between a parent and a child is something that is hard to break. <br />The beauty of this book is that it isn't corny or fake. Everything about the story has a ring of truth to it, even the whimsical bits like the mother going to the son's house and sneaking in. It was sweet and it gave me a chuckle, and it was a poignant metaphor for the notion that no matter how far away we are from our families, we carry them with us everywhere.<br />I know that as I get older, and watch my parents aging, and see them dealing with the aging of their own parents, I can begin to understand in a new way the ending of the book, where the son sings the song to his mother. <br />The illustrations are exquisite - I love all the details that are included, like, as another reviewer mentioned, the way the cat ages.<br />I think any parent would do well to own this book. I know that it is now my favorite baby shower gift.	2002-01-15
US	49255792	RXWB0GUI86UVO	0920236367	951812580	The Boy in Drawer (Classic Munsch)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Led to some good discussions	I have used this book with children in social skills groups to teach them how being mean to other kids can hurt them. Even though the kids found some of the book funny, and loved the illustrations, they didn't entirely understand the point at first.  The book is rather complex, and most young children won't get the underlying message without some adult coaching to help them understand it. I do believe the book is worth it, though, because what the author is trying to teach is so important.	2002-01-15
US	49255792	R1WJ3VS6KNI5K9	0920236820	934177627	The Paper Bag Princess (Munsch for Kids)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent book for girls and women..	I adore this book. It is about Princess Elizabeth who has to defeat a dragon when the Prince is kidnapped. Elizabeth has to rely on her own strengths, creativity and ingenuity to win the battle with the dragon. Every female I've read this book to has loved it, from my 3 year old niece to a group of 12 year olds to my university Women's Studies class. The book has a fantastic message about women's potential to break through sex-role stereotyping. The book boosted the self-esteem of the girls I was working with and led to some great discussions about the fact that they don't need to have a boyfriend to be happy, and the need to accept themselves and recognize their strengths. I think this book is empowering and uplifting and I reccommend it to anyone who is in contact with young girls. Heck, get it for yourself. You deserve it.	2002-01-15
US	49255792	R1B0JQB05IZPCZ	0451526295	569473707	Mansfield Park	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not bad, but not great, either	I love classical literature, and I am a big Austen fan. This book was not up to the standard I expected of the author.<br />On the plus side, the characters are engaging. Austen does a good job of helping the reader understand who everyone is and has a clear grasp of their motivations. I found it interesting that I liked all the main characters. I really empathized with Fanny's unrequited love for Edmund, and I understood why she was so passive, even though I often didn't like her passivity. The chapters were short and the book was easy to read.<br />The big problem was the book was far too long. Some sections could have clearly been shortened. The play was a necessary part of the plot, but it shouldn't have taken so long. I did find myself getting bored and frustrated at times. As I have found to be common with classical literature, the last half of the book was better the first. There were some characters who were underdeveloped to the point that I wish they hadn't been there - specifically Tom. Also found the section of Fanny's return to her family in Portsmouth a bit long. I found that I got confused at times; I needed to go back and read the introduction. The introduction, in my version, was only 2 pages, which was far too short.<br />In summary, this is a good book for anyone who enjoys the classis. It is a somewhat difficult read, so if you have never read Jane Austen before, I would suggest starting elsewhere - my reccommendation would be Emma.	2001-12-02
US	49255792	R1EIMSOH5Y79ZL	0006380573	73794349	Family Matters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant.. It'll make you laugh, cry, &amp; most of all, think!	Canadian columnist Judith Timson has given us a gift with this book. She writes from the heart. Although this book is classified as humor, it is so much more than that. The book is uplifting, intelligent, and thought provoking. It was especially interesting to reread her piece on the late Princess Diana shortly after the crash that killed the Princess. I also cry every time I reread the essay Timson writes about her mother. I reread pieces from this book every year, and they still resonate.	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R2AGWNCCQV3YM1	0393701387	618315873	At Personal Risk: Boundary Violations in Professional-Client Relationships	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Must Read For Helpers...	Peterson's book is a treatise on the issue of boundaries and ethics in the helper/client relationship. She gives excellent examples of the ways clients have been hurt by professionals who don't have clear boundaries. The range of professions include medicine, education, law, religion, and counselling. I too found her discussion of boundary violations highly enlightening.  She is extremely clear in describing what a boundary violation is, and how to deal with them when they occur. Clients who have been on the receiving end of boundary violations and abuses of professional power are likely to find her empathetic and insightful. The book is highly readable and thought provoking. I believe this book should be required reading for teachers, doctors, counsellors, lawyers, and others in the helping professions.	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R142G197LWCXGI	0316880655	3737538	Do What You Are : Discover the Perfect Career for You Through the Secrets of Personality Type--Revised and Updated Edition Featuring E-careers for the 21st Century	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A classic!	This is quite possible the best, most detailed book on Type available. It is a must read for anyone interested in Typology. These descriptions of the 16 types are the most detailed I've ever read. Even better, they then take the descriptions, and use them to give the reader tips on job search strategies that will be the most likely to suit their style. I certainly agreed with the information on my type, INFJ.<br />I really liked the vignettes and the way the authors found the common threads on these stories. I also liked the way Part 2, on Career Satisfaction, was tied into Part 3, which was the section with the chapters for each type. The authors list the things that are most likely to give the reader career satisfaction, based on their type. These excellent chapters also include suggested careers, divided into fields/career areas (very detailed). The last section gives you worksheets to plan your job search.<br />In short, an excellent book that anyone who does career counselling or who is looking for work needs in their personal library!	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R190CUYAI02HO	0895941414	691097986	Sister Outsider: Essays and Speeches (Crossing Press Feminist Series)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	One of the most important books I have ever read...	This book is a compilation of material Lorde wrote in the 70s 80s. Lorde is one of the foremost writers on the subjects of patriarchy, sexism, homphobia and race relations that the West has ever seen.  She talks about how to make change and helps the reader truly understand the situation of people who are underprivileged and discriminated against in our society. Of all the books I read in my Women's Studies classes, this is the one that stayed with me. It is at once intellectually challenging and accessible. I particularly enjoyed her \\"Notes from a Trip to Russia\\" and \\"An Open Letter to Mary Daly.\\" The piece that has had the most impact on my life, however, is \\"The Masters Tools,\\" which is a blueprint for change. She is giving us the keys we need to not only improve our own lives, but the world as a whole. Lorde's words ring as true today as they did when the book was first published. A must read!!!	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R5FFE183DQXGK	0440506999	78501904	Type Talk at Work: How the 16 Personality Types Determine Your Success on the Job	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating and useful	I loved this book. I read it after Lifetypes. It takes the information on type and applies it to the workplace. I found the book helped me get a handle on why I do things the way I do, and it gave me insight into some of my colleagues. The writing is clear, and the descriptions are sufficiently detailed. The author covers all the relevant workplace topics, such as time management, problem solving, communication, and conflict resolution. The descriptions of the different types were really useful even if you've read other books on Type.	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R16K8BAE2PC4WP	0060959622	195484102	You Just Don't Understand: Women and Men in Conversation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quite good	I read this book when it first came out in paperback, and I've gone back to it more than once since then. I thought that the majority of Tannen's arguments made sense. She did a good job of backing up her thesis. She writes with a clear, concise style. I have used the book to help in communicating with some of the men in my life. I appreciate that Tannen acknowledges these gender differences as being rooted in culture rather than biology.<br />My only criticisms of the book is that the author does tend to generalize. There are problems with some of the studies she cites, as well. However, these issues don't take away from the fact that the book is an interesting and easy read.	2001-11-23
US	49255792	R17PKP1OJAXU4S	0553373935	182804994	The New Personality Self-Portrait: Why You Think, Work, Love and Act the Way You Do	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting	Others have described what the book is about, so I won't repeat it. I thought the test was fun, and I liked that it gave a score on each trait. I also liked the activities and exercises to go with each chapter so you can work to address any growth areas where a particular personality trait is causing difficulties in your life. These tasks were easy to do and useful. <br />The thing that makes me leery of giving the book five stars is that I am not sold on the whole DSM model, as it is a medical model that labels people. If you can get past that, the book is great.	2001-11-23
US	49255792	RKBNXMHIHRZ14	034068948X	290410755	Does My Bum Look Big in This?	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Ok, but Bridget Jones is better	I could relate to Jackie's angst about her weight, and her quirky relationship with her mother. I think the book has something to say about the way our society puts so much emphasis on physical attractiveness. But Helen Fielding covered that particular issue far more effectively than Weir. That said, Weir does have skill as a writer; she made the relationships between the characters interesting and believeable. I could relate to Jackie's self-consciousness.<br />The problem is Weir took it too far. I got tired of Jackie's constant whinging and obsessing. She just was not someone I could empathize with in the end, because her perpetual victimhood was just too much to take. I wanted to smack her. The character came as shallow, self-centred, immature and two dimensional.<br />I, too, struggle with weight issues, so I respect the pressure woman are under to meet the ideal. But most of us, while we have moments of insecurity, don't let our weight rule our entire lives. What was especially bad was Jackie wasn't even all that overweight. The satire fell flat there. I just couldn't relate. <br />This book is somewhat funny, but not as funny as Helen Fielding. Weir actually borrows some of Fielding's literary techniques, like the diary format and the New Years Resolutions. The novel suffers in that Weir is no Helen Fielding, and Jacqueline is no Bridget Jones. She doesn't have Bridget's wit, or self-awareness. Although imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, the original still can't be beat. Re-read Bridget instead.	2001-11-12
US	49255792	R30BQBT0VQ8UXG	0679454411	274415107	The Last Lovely City: Stories	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The second half was better than the first...	This collection is a collection of short stories and a novella. The novella, which makes up Part 2 of the book, was fabulous - I would give it 4 stars. The characters were interesting, and I cared about their dilemma. I wish that Adams had written a full length novel exploring their story rather than giving us the short stories in Part 1.<br />Some of the short stories in Part 1 were good. In general, however, they did not go deep enough into developing the characters or their situations to make me care about them. I found myself having to trudge through Part 1 of the book. I only held on because Adams did show a gift for the language; she is a fine writer. But the stories don't stick with the reader.	2001-11-12
US	49255792	R3KQA57ECRLS5D	0684816490	989905241	Ordinary Miracles	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not bad, yet nothing special	This book is a fine summer beach read. It's the story of Jasmine, who finds her marriage falling apart due to her husband's affair. Her good friend Charlie helps her out, and it takes her a while to figure out he is in love with her. The triangle is pretty good, and the book does take a few interesting twists and turns. There are some funny moments, too. <br />The problem with the book is that the characters don't have alot of depth. I don't find myself investing in them at all. As well, the humor is sporadic. The author doesn't have much to say about relationships or the human condition that hasn't been said before. <br />In short, this book is not terrible; you won't likely  hate it. But you won't likely remember it for long after you read it, either. Definitely library or really cheap used book store material. Don't pay full price for it.	2001-11-12
US	49255792	R17XH2U2VC6NM8	0452011736	268371439	Breaking Down the Wall of Silence: The Liberating Experience of Facing Painful Truth	Books	2	15	36	N	N	Didn't live up to my expectations	This book is very similar to Miller's other work. She is focussed on child abuse, and how our society's unwillingness to take child abuse seriously is destroying our world. Miller is a good writer; that is not the problem I had with the book. <br />What I didn't like about the book was that it was simplistic, and the author seemed to engage in circular arguments. If Hitler, Stalin, et al, became dictators because they were abused, shouldn't all of us who were abused be like that? She is looking for causal relationships where there are only correlations, at best.<br />As well, I do not agree with her that forgiveness automatically leads to denial. I think that forgiveness is a necessary part of the healing process. Regardless, she doesn't give good evidence to support her arguments. <br />I also found that Miller came across as arrogant. She quoted from her own books a great deal, as well as quoting from letters she has received from fans of her work. The self congratulatory tone gets old quickly. The book seems disjointed; it is more like a collection of essays than a full fledged book. There were editting problems in my copy. In chapter 9 there were passages that were ommitted and some that were repeated. It appears the typesetting was off in this chapter. This made for a frustrating reading experience, made worse by the fact that this chapter had some of the more important material.	2001-10-27
US	49255792	RB2AAD4FQEJWD	0451527631	315718149	Looking Backward (Signet Classics)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Interesting Idea, Lousy Execution	Other reviews have described the plot, so I won't spend much time on it. A man, Julian West, goes to sleep in 1887 and wakes up in the year 2000. He finds a socialist utopia.<br />At first, the book is quite interesting. Bellamy does a good job of capturing the protagonist's surpise and confusion at the new world he discovers. The fact that Edith Leete looks like his fiance back in 1887 Boston is a neat twist. The socialist state the author describes is appealing to me, and as someone who believes that socialism can work, I found it thought provoking.<br />The problem is, there is not enough story or character development here. Bellamy's ideas aren't really suited to the fictional form. He'd have been better off to write a solely political tract. Because the author can't seem to decide if he wants to write a novel or a political essay, both the narrative and the politics are oversimplified, and given short shrift. The introduction by Cecilia Titchi (pardon my spelling), was excellent. In fact, the book fails to live up to it. If you know nothing about socialism, this book my enlighten you as to the philosophy. If it is an option for a political science class, it would be a good pick because it is easy and quick reading. Otherwise, I wouldn't rush to read it.	2001-10-27
US	49255792	R196O6KY41CAFB	1862044252	526779402	Personality Compass: A New Way to Understand People	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting and fun!!	I have always been into Myers-Briggs Typology, and I generally love books that involve self-awareness quizzes. As such, I bought this book as soon as I saw it. This sytem is different than Myers-Briggs, and in many ways it is easier to use and takes less effort to identify your &quot;type.&quot; What I really like is that it is so much easier to accurately identify friends, coworkers and acquaintances with this system than with Myers-Briggs. As another reviewer noted, the distinctions between the four types are well defined enough that I didn't find two of my friends who are radically differnt were the same type, as happened with Myers-Briggs. <br />What I especially liked about this book is that the authors suggest that all four types are valuable, and the book gives suggestions as to how to develop the parts of you that are not as strong. As well, it is better than Myers Briggs in giving tips for how to deal with people of various types. The Do's and Don'ts are great, and I found them very accurate for myself and my friends.	2001-09-26
US	49255792	R2S1DLC9ZIWFUI	0345431138	315438574	Dave Barry's Only Travel Guide You'll Ever Need	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Loved It!	This is actually one of my favorite Barry books. It is one of the few humor books I have found funny the second and third time I've read it. I thought some of his tips were terrific, not to mention side-splittingly funny, and I nearly fell over laughing at some of the &quot;historical&quot; information. This may be a book you don't want to read in the company of others, lest they look at you like you're nuts.  I was laughing out loud; there was something funny on every page.	2001-09-24
US	49255792	RVLIJJM2HGEF6	1573228214	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Quite good	I would give this book five stars except for three things: first, the book is slow in the beginning, second, I don't think that Hornby says anything particularly original or goes as deep as he could have in terms of the analysis of men in the nineties and the whole male-female relationships, and third, the music as metaphor for life thing didn't work as well for me as it might have for others because like Laura I hadn't heard of half the musicians mentioned.<br />That said, overall I liked the novel. I loved that the chapters were short, so if I didn't have time to sit and read for a long period, I could still read some (I'm one of those people who doesn't like to leave a book part way through a chapter). Even though I'm a woman I could relate to Rob; my obsession is books and movies. Rob is a commitmentphobic man who keeps messing up his relationship because he's afraid to grow up. He thinks he's going to miss something if he doesn't keep his options open, so he ends at 36 with nothing much to show for his life. I found myself wanting to strangle Rob, yet liking him in spite of myself, probably because I know so many guys - and women, actually - like him. The book doesn't have alot of amazing new insights, but the characters are fun, the pace is great, and there is so much I could relate to, even as a woman. I laughed and cried and wanted to scream at Rob at times. Must also say I hated the movie - in the movie I didn't buy the Rob/Laura reconciliation, but in the book it makes more sense. I reccommend this book to anyone in their 20s or 30s who are trying to figure out what it's all about, to music fans, and anyone who loves a good laugh.	2001-09-24
US	49255792	R37NELJYVU4FPJ	068486293X	603907162	NEVER GOOD ENOUGH: How to use Perfectionism to Your Advantage Without Letting it Ruin Your Life	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Very Useful	I love this book. It helps the reader determine if they are a perfectionist, how this impacts their lives negatively, in what areas perfectionism is a problem, and gives ways to cope with perfectionism. The techniques to manage perfectionism are based on sound psychological theory. The author has a clear writing style and she uses alot of good quality illustrative examples. She makes the more theoretical material come alive and simplifies it without insulting the intelligence of the reader. <br />Some of the activities can be time consuming, but they are well worth it. In fact, the book will really not be as valuable if the reader is not willing to put the time and effort in to doing at least some of these activities. The book also contains ideas to help people who do not consider themselves perfectionists cope with the people in their lives who are perfectionistic. Well worth reading!!	2001-09-24
US	49255792	R2VQDC021UH3JE	0684824728	300758054	How To Talk So Kids Can Learn	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Excellent - A must for educators	I loved this book. It goes along with &quot;How To Talk So Kids Will Listen and Listen So Kids Will Talk.&quot; In fact, the book uses the same formula and layout. The communication techniques are the same, with different examples which show how they can be used in a school setting. I found the cartoons really helpful and I liked all the great examples. I especially liked all the illustrative dialogues between the teachers in the book; the authors really take the time to explore all the criticisms of their approach and do a good job of refuting them. <br />The one thing the book doesn't do, because it is so focussed on communication, is really address specific school problems, like students who don't do homework. If that's what you're looking for, this book may not be enough, but the communication skills taught in it are still valuable as part of dealing with such issues. Thus, if you've read the first book you might find it repetitive. If you  haven't, and you're a teacher, I'd suggest you buy this one instead.	2001-09-24
US	49255792	R3OJ0LJDR80HVZ	1558744274	932334715	Bradshaw On: The Family: A New Way of Creating Solid Self-Esteem	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Too long, too repetitive, and somewhat disjointed	In this book, which is based on a TV series for PBS, brought Bradshaw into the public eye. The book essentially describes the impact of growing up in a dysfunctional family. It is an attempt to explain family systems theory in layman's terms. He links our cultural values about children and parenting to the issues of shame, child abuse, eating disorders, and alcoholism. <br />The book has some clear strengths. Bradshaw succeeds in giving a relatively accurate (if somewhat simplistic) description of family systems theory. If you want to understand your own experiences in growing up in a troubled home, this book might help. If you are a student, however, and are trying to learn about family systems theory, this book could confuse you. Bradshaw tries to blend together the work of a variety of theorists, and in doing so he loses the meaning of the individual's work. His own theories are merely a reworking of other great theorists. The biggest problem with that is that he links people together that would actively disagree with one another if they were on a stage together. And some of them would really disagree with the way Bradshaw has reinterpreted their work. Satir is not interchangeable with Bowen. The average reader will not notice this, however, nor do they necessarily need to. <br />Bradshaw also talks alot about 12 step programs, and seems to believe that everyone can and will benefit in participating in such a group. He completely dismisses or ignores the writers who would argue that 12 step programs are ineffective for many. He draws on his own experiences, which is fine, but he generalizes these experiences to such an extent that he seems to believe that everyone must be just like him. He also veers off into left field with a chapter on Neuro Linguistic Programming, which does not seem to fit with the rest of the book. <br />The best thing about the book, aside from the explanation of how family systems function, is that the book contains individual chapters oneach type of dyfunctional family. He uses mnemonics to help people remember the characteristics he is describing. Although this part of the book was repetitive (most dysfunctional families have alot in common, which Bradshaw acknowledges), it was easy to read and it was useful. I recognized myself in some of the behaviour patterns described. <br />In short, if you want a book written for laypersons to help you understand some of the things that happened in your childhood, this book might help you. If you are a looking for a strong theoretical book you could use for research purposes, you will need to look elsewhere.	2001-09-17
US	49255792	R1MXE2PSZF2IVZ	0932194869	734799276	Healing the Shame That Binds You	Books	4	34	44	N	N	Marginally better than &quot;Bradshaw On: The Family:&quot;	I actually wanted to give it 3 1/2 stars, but as that isn't an option, I chose to round up, because the book does have alot of good points.<br />The first part of the book describes what toxic shame is, how it comes about, and how it impacts people. Much of this section of the book is a shorter, clearer, more well written version of the material presented in &quot;Bradshaw On: The Family.&quot; My only concern about this section is that the author seems to imply that every single problem everyone has is rooted in toxic shame, which seems simplistic at best. <br />The second section is a series of techniques on how to cope with and alter one's toxic shame. Again, Bradshaw sings the praises of 12 step support groups and does not really get into the arguments that say such groups are not effective on their own, for most people. His unwillingness to answer his critics is disconcerting; he seems to be hiding. The techniques range from meditation to cognitive behavioural techniques. I found that some of the meditations could be difficult at best and harmful at worst for a person doing them alone. These are meditations he has done in groups, where he was there to monitor if people were being triggered. I think people trying them alone, without the supervision of a qualified professional, could bring up stuff they can't cope with. The other techniques seem safer and easier to use on one's own. <br />In terms of the book as an overall whole, as usual, Bradshaw seems to write from a place of victimhood, which is discouraging. As well, he still uses too much personal examples The stories sometime distract from the text and seems self-aggrandizing rather than being the appropriate self-disclosure some therapists will use. I often wondered, &quot;What does this have to do with anything?&quot; <br />If you like Bradshaw's other works, this book will please you. If you haven't read him before, this is a better place to start than &quot;On the Family&quot;. If you don't like his other work, this won't change your mind, especially if you don't have patience for &quot;New Age&quot; techniques like meditation.	2001-09-17
US	49255792	R1D6X4A18L0PEN	0805029648	643409598	Dave Barry's Bad Habits: A 100% Fact-Free Book (Holt Paperback)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Barry's Best	This is the first Barry book I've read, and it's still my favorite. There was something that made me laugh out loud on almost every page. I read it in a day because I couldn't put it down. More importantly, the book was still funny the second time I read it. That is not something I've experienced often in a humor book. Barry's writing has so much depth that you can miss some of the jokes the first time. The section on government truly is outdated, as mentioned. But that doesn't take away from the overall quality of the book. I may have to borrow it from the friend I gave it to the last time I gave away some books to make room on my bookshelf!!	2001-08-14
US	49255792	RJVKQXE132ZGF	0694521469	518276030	Feel This Book: An Essential Guide to Self-Empowerment, Spiritual Supremacy, and Sexual Satisfaction	Books	3	5	6	N	N	False Advertising	I love Stiller and Garofalo, and I thought the concept of the book was fabulous. But the content inside the book didn't match the back cover. It was like a mishmash of essays that didn't fit together. Alot of it, while interesting, didn't make me laugh. Even the stuff that did make me laugh was tepid at best. Definitely not something I'd read twice or want to keep. The only reason I'm not giving it a lower mark is because the he said/she said really was good, and some of Garofalo's writing is high quality. I do have to also say that I think I would have found some of it funnier in audio format.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	RJEOP4YB8NHFO	0761521755	548268407	Positive Time-Out: And Over 50 Ways to Avoid Power Struggles in the Home and the Classroom	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Essential Reading	This is one of the best books available for people who either have children or work with them. The make sense, and they work. Why would children do better when they are punished, when adults don't? I've used these ideas with the children I work with, as young as age three, and they work. I've also taught them to parents who have taken parenting classes with me, and all have reported success with the method. It allows us as adults to avoid power struggles, set clear limits and have boundaries with our children, rather than using external control. As the author explains, external control doesn't work in the long term - kids only learn how to not get caught, or they become totally dependent on the approval of others, which makes them likely to get caught in peer pressure. Punitive time out teaches conformity and compliance. Postive time out teaches kids to think about the impact of their behaviour on others and the consequences of their choices.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	RP8FNPPM2WMCW	0553573136	627279197	Couplehood	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Hilarious!!	I am a huge fan of Reiser, and I loved Mad About You. This book is a funny, gentle, warm look at the little joys and problems of marriage. I am not even married and I was laughing out loud every page. It was a quick read, and it was the kind of humor I like best - the kind with a serious message underneath. Best of all, the book is as funny on a second reading as it is the first time. A must read!	2001-08-14
US	49255792	R3URF34TEOBQNI	0140169598	302553260	Naked beneath My Clothes: Tales of a Revealing Nature	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Rita's Better Live or on tape	This book was alright. I love Rudner, and I think most of my enjoyment of the book was because I was able to hear Rita's voice in my head as I read the book. If you can't do that, alot of the humor will likely fall flat. She's definitely got some insight into modern life, and the humor is almost as funny the second time around as it is the first.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	R1A1WW237E2X4D	0811828964	56191234	The Bad Girl's Guide to Getting What You Want	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Loved it!!	The only reason I didn't give this book 5 stars is that I think it might have limited appeal to the over 30 crowd. I have some women friends in that age group who could really benefit from the central theme of the book - that of taking control of your life and making it in this crazy world. But the actual areas of advice - like getting a job, finding a man, finding an apartment, are things that aren't as relevant to them. My favorite thing was the quizzes and the neat borders of the pages the wonderful &quot;I want...&quot; ideas. Even though I wouldn't have the guts to do all the things she suggests, just imagining it was an ego boost. I pick it up and read a section whenever I'm down in the dumps, and it always picks me up. I've read sections to my best friend and we both laughed until we cried. Definitely worth the time and the money.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	R1EHKKS23UV3SE	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Would've prefered to give it 3 1/2	I love Al Franken and I have since SNL, and as a fan of him the book did not disappoint. This book is a satiric look at the whole game of politics. I loved the way he mimicked Limbaugh's style; it was priceless. Some of the chapters had me laughing out loud. I did find the book a little long, slow, and inconsistent at times. He took the jokes a bit to far (especially the fat jokes) so they lost their effect. It's a fine line to know how long to keep a joke going, and he missed a few times. Last, the book, in some ways, seemed dated to me, at least as a Canadian who hasn't heard much from Limbaugh in a long time.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	R2SFY8D4PQ1H5V	0679730621	224809446	Bachelor Girls	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not bad	There were certainly some insightful essays in this book. The problem was I expected more humor, and it just wasn't there. As a result, the book doesn't have alot of value as something I'd reread over again. With the exception of two essays - one about a bar mitzvah she attended, and one about the Balkans, most of the book just wasn't all that interesting. Well written, technically, but somewhat dull. And I got tired of some of the self-congratulatory remarks and stories about her plays.	2001-08-14
US	49255792	R14UOMALPLRJWD	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	1	8	24	N	N	I HATED this book!!!	This is quite possibly the worst book I have ever forced myself to read all the way through. I only finished it because there was something morbidly fascinating about reading the book and waiting to see if it could get any worse. Just when I thought it had hit rock bottom, it sunk a little lower. Yet, I kept praying that if the book had to be bad, at least it could be so bad its funny. Sadly, it didn't get there. It just left me depressed that the our expectations have sunk so low that a book this bad could be a bestseller. <br />What was so horrible about this book? Mostly the characters were pathetic, and the supernatural elements came off like a cheesy plot device. I thought the relationship between the mother and daughter (the book is so bad the characters' names have left my head) could've been interesting, but it never developed. I couldn't see why what's-his-name was such a prize that the heroine had to pine over him. And the recipes didn't make the book more interesting, they distracted from the story. Actually, that was the only saving grace of the novel.	2001-08-08
US	49255792	R3EQ7XUOJY5OHA	0452274508	754914928	Dish!: A Single Woman's Confessions on Food and Sex	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A fun, easy read	I loved this book. I read it the first time when I was 19 and I just read it again recently, some 10 years later. The characters were just as much fun now as they were then. I loved the relationships between the characters. I felt like I knew them. The author really focussed on developing the characters and making the plot fun and fast paced. I read this book in two days because I couldn't put it down. And some of the recipes are fabulous!	2001-08-08
US	49255792	R1ZRNNR64GQ1IM	089106074X	390575274	Gifts Differing: Understanding Personality Type	Books	3	23	47	N	N	Interesting background	I got this from the library, and I have to say I'm glad I didn't buy it, because once I read it I had no use for it. It's not something you'd want to refer to in the future, unless maybe you were doing a research paper. I thought some of the explanations of the different preferences were interesting. But the writing style was dull. It was a very scholarly book, and thus not particularly readable. It came across as a textbook, which I wasn't expecting for some reason.	2001-08-08
US	49255792	R2TJ65211EIXI8	0446388238	798989498	Lifetypes	Books	5	21	25	N	N	One of my three faves on this topic	I loved this book. It was one of the first I ever read on typology and Myers-Briggs. The writing style is easy without being condescending. The descriptions of the different types were really useful. I totally recognized myself. Best of all, there was no judgement of readers for being who they are. The book showed me how to embrace my weaknesses as well as my strengths. Highly reccommended.	2001-08-08
US	49255792	R3B7NE7SRIII40	014026941X	925046758	What Type Am I? Discover Who You Really Are	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Would've been higher if I hadn't read other books on MBTI	This book is a great introduction to typology. It's simple and it gives useful information. I just wish it have given more information. The character descriptions were spare, and their were way too many cartoons and too much white space. The problem I had is there was nothing new in it. If this is the firt book you've ever read on the subject you'll probably love it. Otherwise, go for something with a little more depth. For me, I wasted my money. I'll be giving it away soon.	2001-08-08
US	49255792	RJ4PMUWPJWKA3	067973001X	461103067	The Wives of Henry VIII	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Engrossing	I have always been fascinated by English history, particularly Henry VIII. Fraser did not disappoint. Usually I find history books dry and dull. I was initially put off by the length of the book, but the author writes so well that I couldn't put the book down. She makes it seem more like a novel than a history text. I felt like I was right there with each of Henry VIII's wives. The book is meticulously researched, and she clearly shows the differences between the women in the King's life, and helps the reader to understand his motives. All the events are put in context of the sociopolitcal landscape of the times. As a result, I found myself seeing how complex the King was and not being able to hate him, even though I hated his actions. I highly reccommend this book to anyone who is interested in the history of the British monarchy.	2001-08-06
US	49255792	R1EWX9GCBZC24Y	0385425074	227839006	Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women	Books	3	10	23	N	N	Worthwhile effort	I did find this book readable and interesting. Faludi is not anti-male; she does point out the negative impact on men that anti-feminist attacks create, and she acknowledges that it has been hard for men to adjust to societal changes. She clearly identifies the barriers that exist to full equality for women. I especially liked the way she addressed the fact that many women who strive for equality still want to distance themselves from feminism and the women's movement. This is an important issue; women are forgetting the struggles we have gone through to make progress. I particularly liked the way she exposed the lack of statistics around some of the supposed &quot;trends&quot; about women's lives, as well as the way she exposes that some of the most ardent critics of feminism and women's work have marriages that actually model what the feminist movement is striving for. Yet, these people fail to see the contradiction between their own actions and their stated beliefs/attitudes. What I disliked about the book, aside from it's length, was that Faludi does the same things she faults her critics for: relying on individual vignettes and ancedotal evidence rather than hard statistics to make her point. These stories certainly made the book more readable, but the technique seemed jarring, given the author's repeated calls for hard statistics.	2001-07-10
US	49255792	RH13VXPBLJ612	0060988754	941039759	Do Less, Achieve More: Discover the Hidden Powers Giving In	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Eloquent	I loved this book. It is a wonderful blend of East/West ideas. I found the author easy to read without being facile. This book is not a self help book or a time management book, it is about developing a whole way of being in the world and spirituality. I loved the way she weaved the story of the Rainmaker in to the book. I found reading the book gave me a sense of peace and helped me find my centre. It taught me to learn to relax and let the universe unfold as it should, and this philosophy has changed my life. I feared I would find the book to &quot;New Age&quot; but the author employs a style that is very down to earth.	2001-07-06
US	49255792	R1WC8JZNEWC3VW	014028852X	93644243	Difficult Conversations: How to Discuss What Matters Most	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A keeper!	This book was highly useful. It really explained what causes conflict in relationships and how to talk to the people in your life about important issues in a way that is respectful and will likely preserve the relationships. The material on &quot;The Three Conversations&quot;. as well as some of the specific techniques suggested, were particularly useful. I noticed a change in my ability to handle stressful issues immediately. The only thing that kept the book from getting 5 stars is that I did find the latter part of the book simplistic, particularly the material on listening. Again, this would be a terrific book to put on a syllabus for a communications class.	2001-07-06
US	49255792	R2S2BZT2Z0M1WH	1852309717	563315591	If Only I'd Listen to Myself: Resolving the Conflicts That Sabotage Our Lives	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very useful	I have been doing alot of personal growth work around improving my own communication skills. This book has been very useful. It is a book that focusses more on developing self-awareness than in techniques to use in communication with others. In fact, my only criticism of the book is that the back cover suggested the authors would provide techniques and skill practice activities, and they didn't. It is easy to read, engaging, and insightfl. The title, as the previous reviewer stated, really does say it all. <br />This book would be a terrific addition to the library of any counsellor or teacher who teaches counselling skills. A counsellor could even loan a copy to a client to read. The book has some very good vignettes that illustrate the concepts. Some of the chapters are long, but the writing is good enough that most will not notice. I found I could pick up the book and go to any chapter and gain valuable insight, so a person using it as a teaching tool would not have to assign the entire book.	2001-07-06
US	49255792	R197G08RNYCIBN	0449911896	666553581	The Tin Can Tree: A Novel (1st Ballantine Books trade ed)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The whole was less than the sum of its parts	I am a huge Anne Tyler fan, so I was disappointed that Tin Can Tree wasn't up the the caliber of Accidental Tourist (my favorite Tyler novel) or Breathing Lessons.  But it one of her first, and the signs of her ability are there. The story of Janie Rose and how her parents cope with her death is compelling, but the problem is the treatment of it is somehow superficial. The author is so intent on showing me life in small town America that she leaves the novel's core family, the Pike's inaccessible. All the relationships were superficial. The characters of James, and Ansell in particular, took up far too much space, especially since their story never went anywhere. In short, this book had alot of great elements that did not up to a novel worthy of Tyler's talent	2001-04-15
US	49255792	R3W49PV5HL5E3G	0345402510	45503610	Positive Discipline (Revised)	Books	5	38	47	N	N	A must read!	This is one of the best, most useful parenting books I have ever read. I am a child and youth care worker and I use these concepts with the kids I work with. I've taught them to parents who are really struggling and they've seen major improvements in their relationships with their kids, as well as the kid's overall behaviour. The book focuses on how to interact with your kids in a way that emphasizes firmness merged with kindness. It shows you have to treat your kids with respect, give them choices and a degree of control, the meaning of consequences, and manage conflict. The truth is punishing kids does NOT work, and discipline and punishment are NOT synonymous.<br />I really liked the concrete examples in the book. I wish that the author had spent more time on how to determine your child's mistaken goal, and she had addressed more clearly how exactly to find the time for family meetings and the like when you are a family with two working parents. I also appreciate that she teaches parents to think long term. I have to admit that the ideas in the book may seem simplistic at first read. You have to remember (and Nelsen stresses this repeatedly) that changes won't occur overnight. But if you stick with it you will see a difference. I would reccommend reading it once, trying to apply it for 3-4 weeks, and then reading it again. It is written in a conversational style, so it is a quick read. I got through it the first time in a weekend. I refer to in frequently to remind myself of certain ideas.	2001-03-12
US	49255792	R2YZHFXQFOFZ7	0517588684	226200591	Dave Barry Talks Back	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very Funny	I almost gave this book five stars. It was laugh out loud funny -- I first read it about 15 (?) years ago it in the car with my parents and they kept asking my what I was laughing about. I've since read it again, and it is just as hilarious. That's my true litmus test for a humor book.  My only complaint was there were too many exploding animals for me. Those jokes got old very quickly. The rest of the book was hilarious and insightful. The neat thing about Dave Barry is that he makes me laugh, but he also always has something to say, so I find myself thinking as well.	2001-02-13
US	49255792	R4NHBFFKFMUR5	0425092917	597669853	The Accidental Tourist	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Really enjoyed this	If you saw and hated the movie, as I did, don't let that put you off. The book if fantastic. The relationships are fascinating. I really cared about the characters, and I could understand why Macon would be attracted to someone like Muriel, particularly after the loss of his son. Tyler writes characters in a way that I can believe; I felt like I knew the people in the novel. I laughed, I cried, I yelled, I pondered. All the things I hope a novel will encourage me to do. And most importantly, I never felt manipulated. Tyler didn't tell; she showed. I would have given it 5 stars, but I did feel that she could've expanded a bit more on Macon's relationship with his family, and particularly, his ex-wife. What was it about them they pulled apart rather than together in their grief? I still don't have a satisfactory sense of that.	2001-02-13
US	49255792	R280S74KHEAFXU	0345440633	28671094	Dave Barry's Complete Guide to Guys	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hilarious, Irreverent, and Brilliant	I think Dave's been reading my diary -- I've dated or am related to most of the guys he describes in this book. I laughed all the way through it, and I actually managed to get an understanding of the male psyche. I give Barry credit for being so willing to poke fun at the stereotypes about male behaviour. A must read for any woman!	2001-02-13
US	49255792	R2JCDF804BG8IO	0380811960	867225344	How to Talk So Kids Will Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk	Books	5	24	29	N	N	The Best Parenting Book I've Read	If you have time to read only one book on how to deal with children, let it be this one. Although it was over 200 pages I read it in a day, because it was so good. This book is written in a really clear fashion. The techniques are easy to use, and the language is simple without being condescending. The authors cover discipline, sharing feelings, how to give useful praise, and a variety of other subjects. It's useful not only for parents, but for anyone who has contact with kids. I've seen an improvement in my interactions with kids in only a few short weeks.	2001-02-13
US	49255792	R242M52H2Z8V4N	0440202019	154673422	Coping with Difficult People: The Proven-Effective Battle Plan That Has Helped Millions Deal with the Troublemakers in Their Lives at Home and at Work	Books	5	116	120	N	N	Excellent Resource	Usually I don't like books of this sort because I find them simplistic. Admittedly this book is written for a general audience, but the author still makes an effort (and succeeds, in my opinion) in distinguishing between people who fit in to one of his types and people who can be difficult at times, but don't quite fit in a specific category. I never had the feeling of &quot;oh, that could be anyone.&quot; And the techniques he gave to deal with difficult people were concise and easy to use. He really focuses on the fact that we can't change others, we can only change how we chose to respond, which is vital. A very positive, encouraging, readable book. I've already noticed a difference in my relationships after only a few weeks.	2001-02-13
US	49255792	R2ZVWS9NWVMAB4	0534347940	718636680	Becoming a Helper (Counseling)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Excellent Resource	This book was the text my instructor assigned in an interpersonal communication class I took a few years ago. It is very readable, as are all books by the Coreys. It covers a wide range of topics and it uses case examples to illustrate the points. It isn't a counselling book in terms of having alot of exercises on questioning or empathy. It does discuss counselling skills, but it is more concerned with the worker's personal development, in terms of ethics, self-awareness, self-care, etc. The suggested activities at the end of the chapter really help the learning process. My only criticism of the book is that a few of the chapters are a tad long.	2001-01-24
US	49255792	R2CWG9OKKSYYDO	039370162X	405219559	Family Based Services: A Solution-Based Approach (Norton Professional Books)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A must read for anyone working with families!	This book is a primer on how to do solution-focussed work with families. The great thing about these techniques is that although the author is writing from a child protection perspective, and she is working with families, she describes the techniques and principles in such a way that the reader can see that the solution focused approach can be applied to a wide variety of situations, including individual work. The author's writing style is fluid and enjoyable, such that I was actually enthralled by the book and didn't want to put it down. Her case examples ring true. The book really shows the importance of joining with clients, and not needing to take on a top-down expert attitude. I was able to apply the material to my practice immediately. The author gets bonus points for actually having an introduction and preface that was actually quite valuable, as opposed to being filler, which can be the case with some books.	2001-01-24
US	49255792	R9PU1NN6ILVR2	0060198567	473488489	Parenting Through Crisis: Helping Kids in Times of Loss, Grief, and Change	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Colorosso Does It Again!	In this fantastic follow up to Kids Are Worth It! author Barbara Colorosso discusses how parents can help their children cope with changes like deaths within the family, divorce, remarriage, illness, and disability. The book is peppered with inspiring quotes, humor, and personal stories.<br />The book gives great suggestions for parents to support their children through difficult times. The author uses what she calls the TAO of Family (Time, Affection and Optimism) as a guide for each of the subjects she discusses. She also reviews information on the three styles of families and the difference between discipline and punishment. She does expand on this by talking about restorative justice, which is very interesting. She does a good job of giving readers a sense of empowerment.<br />My one minor complaint about the book (in fact, this is the only thing that has kept me from giving it five stars) is that some of the material was repetitive. She looks at each issue from a developmental perspective. She even considers the impact on the unborn in some chapters, which is impressive (I wish she had done so in all chapters). But she could have done one chapter on developmental stages instead, because the impact is quite similar regardless of whether the specific issue is divorce or death. I can't fault her for restating the information about types of families from Kids are Worth It! because that information is so useful it bears restating, and not everyone who reads this book will have read the first one.	2001-01-24
US	49255792	R28J9E3FLICYRX	0932194400	521262346	Healing The Child Within:  Discovery and Recovery for Adult Children of Dysfunctional Families	Books	3	22	27	N	N	Worth a look	I did find some of the information in this book useful, but I don't particularly care for the concept of the inner child as something split off or separate, as opposed to looking at people as whole human beings with core issues from our childhood. Although it is a difficult book in terms of reading level, I would reccommend Daniel Stern's The Interpersonal World of the Infan to get another, I believe more useful exploration of core issues.<br />The second issue I have with the book is that because he's trying to write for a general audience, the author uses checklists that I find rather broad. In order to really discover if a person has come from a dysfunctional (an over-used term in itself -- it is too subjective. Read chapter one of Normal Family Processes by Walsh to get a good discussion of this issue) family, work with a therapist is required. <br />That said, the author is a good writer, and the book is easy to follow.  Some of his ideas about grief are right on, and I like the fact that he looks at human needs beyond Maslow's five (which he mislabels, by the way).	2001-01-24
US	49255792	R2LTEWHY9RNXZ0	0385491034	893718356	The Robber Bride	Books	5	13	15	N	N	I couldn't put it down - vintage Atwood	This is the second Atwood novel I have read, and I found it even more difficult to put down than Cat's Eye. I also found it easier to understand. The characters, albeit a tad stereotypical and narrowly drawn, still managed to draw me in and in, fact, reminded me of various parts of myself. I found myself wondering if that was part of Atwood's point -- that we have a bit of Toni, Roz, Charis, and even Zenia in all of us. It was amazing to me how fascinated I was by Zenia, given how distant she was in the novel.<br />There were things that were not great about the book. The characters and some of the relationships were predictable. But that is to be expected with Atwood, who seems to address the same themes in all her writing -- the power relations between men and women, and how the female need for male acceptance impacts the relationships between women. One should read Atwood for the poetic nature of her writing; the stunning metaphors and the descriptions that haunt the reader long after the book is done.	2001-01-21
US	49255792	R1OZDE4FKJDQTO	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spellbinding	This book, as others have stated, is about the way that our childhood impacts the adult we become, and the terrible way girls can treat each other. I did find it hard to get in to at the beginning, but by the first 50 pages, I was captivated. Atwood has an amazing way with words; the book is poetic. The book doesn't have as much dialogue as I normally want from a book, because Atwood is most concerned with setting a scene and creating a mood. It is very internal novel, and it is not linear. Not an easy read, but well worth it. There are so many levels to this book. Every time I read it I see something different in it.	2001-01-21
US	49255792	R1TX2DLNJFCMKY	1885843070	908231439	The View From My House	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not bad, but she's no Bombeck	I read this collection because I had heard the author was a modern day Erma Bombeck, who I absolutely love. I don't see it. Yes, there were a few funny parts, but nothing as good as anything Bombeck ever wrote. This book may appeal to someone who is married with kids, which I am not.	2001-01-21
US	49255792	R1CQFDEVNTRT22	0425170586	966400633	The Girl in the Photograph	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good light read	I found this book quite absorbing at times. The mystery was quite interesting. I wanted to know the story of the main character's mother as much as she did. I found some of the writer's stylistic habits hard to get used to, but once I knew what to expect it was fine. She has the main character go into her head and do a running comedy routine and it can be distracting. Also, the ending was rather simplistic. I didn't like the judgemental tone of it.	2001-01-19
US	49255792	R2NG5LET5DHX6W	0060930004	524429774	The Distinguished Guest	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Outstanding!	Sue Miller's novel is captivating. I read it in one night because it was so good I couldn't put it down and go to sleep. I literally stayed up all night with this novel.  The characters, Lily and her son in particular, are well drawn. The relationships are interesting. Miller really made me think with this book. I have read a few of her novels, and this is by far the best.	2001-01-19
US	49255792	R18LVVRIJPYHST	0786884592	544357348	Life Strategies: Doing What Works, Doing What Matters	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Better than I expected	I didn't expect much from this book, because it was reccommended to me by someone with very different views than myself with regard to self-help and personal growth. I did find the author judgemental at times, and he did seem to oversimplify, but in general his life laws make sense. The activities were great, but I thought the chart in the final chapter might have been better in the beginning, to help guide the reader. Worth reading, but I'd suggest taking it out from the library first to see if you like it.	2001-01-08
US	49255792	ROCXOEO5CNURG	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	1	11	20	N	N	Only because zero isn't an option!	This book was awful. Totally repetitive, simplistic, and sexist. Don't waste your time or money. It's authors like this who give the self-help genre a bad name. Gray is a terrible writer, and the information he gives is common sense.	2001-01-02
US	49255792	R30C4EP6FBBHJZ	0918351049	258371938	You Want Me to Do What?: When, Where and How to Draw the Line	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Useful	I got this book at a discount table and almost put it down when I realized it was geared toward office professionals ( I work in social services) and I am so glad I decided to risk it. The scenarios she uses, as well as the tips she gives, fit for all sorts of people in a variety of fields. The book is well written and easy to read and understand.	2000-11-24
US	49255792	R3JNIJLGNRXSDY	0684856220	787821381	Cupid and Diana: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Couldn't put this down!	This book was terrific. As some people said, it was on the shallow side, but the characters are great, and the relationships are interesting, if underdeveloped. I would highly reccommend this book to anyone looking for something light and fun for a rainy afternoon.	2000-11-24
US	49255792	RHHMB9FCUQHK3	0534338569	423422174	Theory and Practice of Counseling and Psychotherapy	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Only such a low mark because I've seen the new Edition	This is a good book, but edition six is MUCH better. In edition five  chapter 3 is too long and repetitive. Corey has also added a separate  chapter on feminist theory in the new edition, which I think is important.  If you can't afford the new edition, this edition does have great info,  in-depth bibliographical info and is well laid out.	2000-09-16
US	49255792	RD4ZLC82FXFQ4	0534343392	51012767	I Never Knew I Had a Choice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fabulous Book!	I bought this book for a counselling class a few years ago. I actually  didn't even need it - I bought the wrong instructor's book. That said, it  was a very lucky mistake. The book  taught me alot about myself, it was  easy to read, and the material could be used with clients of all ages.  Highly reccommended.	2000-09-16
US	49255792	R2T3RJQ8F74G5T	0684848147	752920590	Imperfect Control: Our Lifelong Struggles With Power and Surrender	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Worth a look	This book has very good summaries of psychological research on the issues  of power and control. It would be a particularly helpful book for a student  writing a paper in an undergraduate class. The book is not hard to read; I  finished it in 2 days. I found her chapters on romantic relationships,  parenting and work relationships helpful and gained insight into my own  behaviour.	2000-09-16
US	49255792	R39QHGFINTRZHJ	0684849631	607311246	Never Good Enough: Freeing Yourself from the Chains of Perfectionism	Books	5	30	33	N	N	This book is a godsend!	I have struggled to get a handle on my perfectionism all my life. Dr. Ramirez's explanation of the idea that there are different types of perfectionism, and that people can be perfectionists in some areas but not  others, really made sense to me. I have a much better understanding of  myself and my relationships. The book has made a huge difference in my  life.	2000-06-30
US	49255792	R3K788SBHSAW2	0380719541	279514994	kids are worth it!	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent book!	Although the book is focussed on parenting, the ideas and philosophies the author promotes apply to anyone who works with kids. I have found that using the techniques suggested in this book as made me 100 times more  effective in my job. Colorosso understands the value of self-awareness and  an internal locus on control in healthy development. The book not only  helped me in work with kids, it also gave me insight into myself, my  experiences, and my relationships in general. I believe that the 3 types of  families - backbone, brickwall, or jellyfish - also can be seen as 3  personality styles,  so that we are not only brickwall, jellyfish, or  backbone people with kids, we are that way in general, where our  relationships are concerned. If you look at it this way the book will go a  long way to giving you tools to deal with all sorts of conflicts in your  life.	2000-06-30
US	49255792	ROJTVOY2FPV4H	055337978X	775973073	Finding Serenity in the Age of Anxiety	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very helpful	This book is terrific! Gerzon's writing style is very readable. The self assessment test was good but I would've liked a description of each anxiety type and specific techniques around dealing with your particular style.  That is the only reason I didn't give the book 5 stars. I found his A+  Formula to make alot of sense and it has been easy to apply to my own life.  Some of his suggested techniques are very &quot;New Age&quot; and didn't  fit for me. For example, I am not interested in meditation. So I would've  liked more techniques for people who don't find this philosophy accessible.	2000-06-30
US	49255792	R3G16HSID3W19N	0374100462	570871993	Accident / A Day's News	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Captivating!	I read this book as part of a German Lit. in Translation class. Wolf was by far the best author we read. The book pulls the reader right into the story so you feel like it is happening to you. Wolf challenges readers to  think about the  way we are treating our world and question whether we are  making the right decisions. What is particularly interesting about Wolf is  that she is so blunt about the world's problems but she still has hope. The  book left a strong impression on me.	2000-06-30
US	49255792	R3G04N9Q6DTHL	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Didn't live up to my expectations	I fell in love with Sue Miller's writing when I read &quot;The Distinguished Guest,&quot; which is a fabulous, gripping novel. So I know Miller is an excellent writer. That said, this book was uneven, at best.  Some of the passages were breathtaking. There were times when I couldn't  put the book down. I was really interested in the relationship between Dana  and Jo, yet it needed more development. I found Jo's relationships with her  kids, husband, and coworkers had potential, but could've been fleshed out  more. The fascination with Eli didn't fit, though what happened between  them was simplistic and predictable. Check it out of the library if you  really want to read it.	2000-06-30
US	49255792	R1EPAP9ZN564DT	0471344133	500306291	Adversity Quotient: Turning Obstacles into Opportunities	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Worth a look	Some of this book is very simplistic if you have taken any psychology. The writing can be repetitive. That said, the assessment test is good, and the explanations of the different components of AQ are useful. I particularly  liked the author's explanation of what it means to take ownership in a  situation. The LEAD sequence is well explained and easy to use. In short,  there are some useful tips and techniques here, particularly for those who  work in human services, but the book is overlong given the simplicity of  the author's message.	2000-06-30
