US	49255583	R3RJGBI2193QEZ	0826415725	15610372	James Brown's Live at the Apollo (33 1/3)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Inspiring, but the detours were heavy-handed	A great short read about the live recording sessions that led to the creation of one of the seminal R&B albums. The writing is punchy, respectful, and never overwrought -- except for the glaring and jarring detours into the Cuban missile crisis. The episode is clearly relevant to the story, because the concert in question took place in roughly the same 24-hour time span that the crisis was unfolding, but while everyone in the Apollo that night may have had the crisis on their minds, the digressions into what the fighter planes and the decision makers were doing at exactly the same time that James Brown was wiping sweat off his brow as he switched gears and tore into another song are distracting and ultimately tell us little about why the crisis made the night charged. Wolk should have stuck to the performances and the music or else found a better way of weaving the crisis into the book.	2005-06-05
US	49255583	RLA94F44VCPWS	0195169751	983436177	Anger: The Seven Deadly Sins (New York Public Library Lectures in Humanities)	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Thought-provoking, but marred by stilted prose	This book is worth reading for several reasons, among them which is a succinct treatment of the Buddhist philsophy of anger as an addiction/delusion that keeps humans from achieving transcendence. However, the book gets too frequently bogged down in undistilled prose that seems culled directly from Buddhist texts (particularly Shantideva, a Tibetan thinker, whose verses on anger make up much of the second half of the book), as opposed to broken down into understandable language that a novice learner might gain knowledge from; this is, after all, supposed to be a layman's guide, not a text for a postgraduate seminar. (A sentence as an example of this tendency: \\"Focusing in particular upon the root anger, we see that the analysis locates it as arising from the base of the self-other-absolute-separation delusion, which is what makes it an emotional addiction rather than a raw emotion.\\")  <br /> <br />The first couple of chapters of the book touch briefly on Western concepts of anger, especially classical thinking on the matter (Aristotle, Plutarch, Seneca, etc.), and seem completely disconnected from the rest of the book, which is strictly an examination of Buddhist thought. The Western side of the matter is dispatched with overquickly, which does not particularly help Thurman's case. <br /> <br />Thurman preaches at the reader about the importance of transcending anger, often in annoyingly detached, dry, high-horse tones, but does very little in the way of making clear to the reader who may not have a grounding in Buddhist thought why overcoming anger is crucial, or, more importantly, how to overcome it (especially in a culture such as ours, in which Thurman comes close to acknowledging that anger is viewed as a normative, even positive, impulse). It is these qualities that make the book seem slapdash and thrown-together, as though Thurman threw together whatever he could in a hurry to meet a publisher's deadline. These flaws detract from the book's otherwise important themes.	2005-05-25
US	49255583	RSFXNS5NFO3SM	0684813548	993990851	Birth Of The Cool: Beat, Bebop, and the American Avant Garde	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Slapdash in details but generally on the money thematically	Reviews of this book on this site have characterized it as sloppy, uninformed, and even erroneous in certain historical details. I would have to agree that the book is breezy at times, and at its worst is slapdash in its treatment of what is probably one of the most important cultural phenomena of the past fifty to sixty years, i.e., the development and growth of the idea of \\"cool\\" as a form of cultural currency. Despite the misgivings, though, I think this book's themes are right on the money. Read in conjunction with other more attentive books about the phenomenon in question (and/or the historical period), this book can be a door-opener or a good supplement, depending on your point of view.	2004-12-31
US	49255583	R1ENV1XA1ZRKOP	0520240154	392776288	American Scream: Allen Ginsberg's Howl and the Making of the Beat Generation	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Worthwhile introduction to the poem and the era	A worthwhile treatment of the history of the writing of an important American poem. However, this book is not a history of the Beat Generation. It covers Cassady, Kerouac, and Burroughs, but only insofar as they intersected with Ginsberg. This is mostly a literary biography of Ginsberg. That doesn't diminish its value, but it does point to the book's main focus.  <br /> <br />The book is best in its focus on Ginsberg's formative years and the themes of alienation and fear that went into the creation of \\"Howl.\\" The book has less to say about the poem's aftermath: the infamous reading in San Francisco, the seizure of the book by customs officials, and the susequent obscenity trial are dispensed with in a chapter, and Ginsberg's subsequent life is summarized in a few pages.  <br /> <br />The book is also written in what is frequently a bloodless, dry style that fails to do justice to the feverishness of the times and the people involved. You never get away from the fact that you are reading a book written by an academic, albeit a thoughtful and sympathetic one. There are other books out there that capture the times more passionately. However, if you are intrigued by the era and are looking for a jumping-off point to explore other work about the Beats, you could do a lot worse than using this book as an introduction.	2004-10-12
US	49255583	R21T5H3H6AXGSU	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	4	53	57	N	N	Worth reading ... but frustrating	This book is fascinating, but it's also frustrating in many ways. Micklethwaite and Wooldridge are two Oxford-educated Brits who have done a lot of traveling and work (they are writers for The Economist) in the States. The book bills itself as a primer for explaining the conservative movement and its ascendancy to a European audience, so the criticisms from some reviews here that the book doesn't seem to know what it wants to be or that it will seem simplistic to Americans are off-base: the book is not structured as an in-depth scholarly treatment of the history of US conservative politics.  <br /> <br />The main political and historical points that the authors make, including a concise and informative summary of the movement's history and several well-considered theories about why conservatism has become the winning argument in the US, are strong, although they tend toward an overreliance on already-established work done by the likes of Seymour Martin Lipset. On the other hand, culturally, the authors tend to be somewhat typically British in their condescension. They profess to love the friendliness and bonhomie of the fly-over states, but they never hesitate to poke fun at the \\"fact\\" that there are so many fat people living in them (and so many thin ones in the blue states). The final section of the book starts out with a grandiose contrast between \\"Hastertland\\" -- the Speaker of the House's Congressional district in northern Illinois -- and \\"Pelosiland\\" -- basically all of San Francisco -- that is so stereotypical and inaccurate that it borders on the asinine. All told, the book is well worth reading, because it has a lot of value to say about why conservatism, contrary to the views of numerous mainstream poitical pundits, is not a passing fad, but it's also got some significant flaws.	2004-10-02
US	49255583	RR007DJH8UTRP	1565848748	701269570	Hatchet Jobs: Writings on Contemporary Fiction	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Better than I expected	It's interesting to me that most of the reader reviews on this book dismiss Peck for tearing apart the writers that they like -- although that is Peck's point.     Peck is a gifted writer, no doubt. However, I find it ironic that Peck considers himself first and foremost a Novelist with a Capital N. This \\"review\\" stuff is just a sideline. It's ironic because Peck's novels, for the most part, suck. (To use one of Peck's favorite words.) Has anybody ever actually gotten through one of Peck's doorstops and felt fulfilled at the end? Given that reality, who is Peck to skewer the likes of James Joyce? And to let us know that his \\"hands [were] literally shaking\\" while he tore Joyce apart?    On the other hand, Peck's reviews, to my surprise, are on the whole incisive, thoughtful, and yes, iconoclastic (despite being suffused with a maddening self-importance). I expected (given the overwhelmingly negative press this book got when it came out, and the general media perception that Peck is much too full of himself) to dislike these reviews, and there were points in some of them that left me scratching my head and wondering what Peck was thinking when he wrote them.     Peck selects some easy targets (Sven Birkerts? Ethan Mordden?). His characteristically melodramatic announcement at the beginning of the book that he \\"will no longer write negative book reviews\\" sounds disingenuous. His claim that he is \\"by no means convinced of the hallowedness of my own ideas\\" is belied by the evidence in his own reviews.     But some writers, especially middlebrow tasteful ones, richly deserve being taken down a few pegs, and that's exactly what Peck does, devastatingly, with the likes of Philip Roth (\\"'American Pastoral' is like watery oatmeal\\"), Julian Barnes (\\"seems motivated by nothing more than boredom, decadence, or hubris\\"), David Foster Wallace (\\"I resent the five weeks of my life I gave over to reading the thing,\\" i.e., \\"Infinite Jest\\"), and, of course, Rick Moody (\\"a writer of oneterrible book after another, but a writer nonetheless\\").	2004-10-01
US	49255583	RHSRDC12098L6	1586482734	530711434	John F. Kerry: The Complete Biography By The Boston Globe Reporters Who Know Him Best (Publicaffairs Reports)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Interesting for its accounts of previous Kerry campaigns	This book is valuable as a sketch of John Kerry's life, although the later chapters on Kerry's post 9/11 votes in the Senate and his early presidential candidacy will not be unfamiliar to anybody who has read a newspaper regularly since 2002.     The most valuable portions of the book, in my opinion, are the sections about Kerry's other political campaigns: his losing run against Republican Paul Cronin for a House seat in 1972, his first political rout; his run against James Shannon, a very similar candidate ideologically, in 1984; and his run against William Weld in 1996. These sections speak volumes about the strengths and especially about the limitations of the man in his current race against George W. Bush. The section about Kerry's Vietnam experience is useful, but if the book had been written after the enormous Swift Boat controversy and the publication of \\"Unfit for Command,\\" it would have benefited from expansion.    All in all, well worth reading, although, as others have noted, the book is dry and somewhat bloodless, and it spends a little too much time trotting out the standard stereotypes about Kerry, which may or may not be accurate, as most stereotypes tend to be.	2004-09-29
US	49255583	R1S717M8MV2C1H	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	3	38	78	N	N	Disappointingly strident book on an important subject	Speaking as someone who got a lot out of Thomas Frank's ''One Market under God,'' I was somewhat disappointed by his latest.  <br /> <br />Most of the scathing indictments that Frank hands down against the ''conservative'' movement could just as validly be made about a good percentage of the ''liberals'' that Frank implicitly sides with: they don't brook dissent, they look down on their opposition, and most of all, they view themselves and their place in political history and culture only through the prism of victimhood.  <br /> <br />To make claims like this while turning a blind eye to mirror-image tendencies on the left (in fact, Frank smugly winks at and nudges the reader, whom he expects to join in his smugness, as if to say, ''Isn't it fantastic that you and I are so well-informed about what the American people need?'') is the surest indication that this is another in the long march of 2004 books that are published not as much to inform as to cudgel, and the tendency is no more attractive in Thomas Frank than it is in Ann Coulter.  <br /> <br />The points that Frank makes -- and he makes many important points about the state of American politics and life, including the disconnect between the facts of life on the ground in much of the United States and continued fervent support by voters for a party that, according to Frank, is doing everything in its power to dismantle their way of life -- are frequently all but smothered by the self-satisfied rhetoric, which extends to the invention of smarmy, unilluminating neologisms like \\"plen-T-plaint.\\"  <br /> <br />This book may comfort those left- (and right-) coasters who already have made up their minds about the ''flyover states,'' and that's clearly the book's intended audience, but it's highly unlikely to convert anyone who hasn't (nor is it likely to win many fans in Kansas itself). Nor will it contribute to bringing the camps of the so-called blue and red states closer together, although that seems to be Frank'savowed purpose.	2004-09-19
US	49255583	R3ND7LVE8ODQKF	1582433119	502755735	Sontag and Kael: Opposites Attract Me	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Well-written and affectionate, but not sycophantic	A lively, argumentative, and engaging piece of critical writing about two of the major \\"celebrity\\" aesthetic figures of the past fifty years. <br />Kael made her name writing acerbic, witty, urbane movie reviews; Sontag made hers writing cerebral, careful essays about culture and ideas. Kael and Sontag share some surface similarities, but Seligman's book is mostly about their differences: how beautiful Sontag's writing is, yet also how impenetrable, how aloof Sontag can be from anyone who is not \\"in the know,\\" how contemptuous she is of what is not High Art, yet how crucial her voice is, even if that voice has trailed off in recent years in the pursuit of the fictional muse. (The only difficulty with Seligman's adulation of Sontag is that it is sometimes hard to understand what earns it, although he spends much of the book trying to make the case for her.)<br />Kael, on the other hand, is more of a populist, almost to a fault sometimes, according to Seligman, who nonetheless has little bad to say about her, about her feistiness, about her professed inability to care what others thought of her judgments (although ultimately she did care a great deal, as Seligman points out in an extended section on the ludicrous assertion some of her enemies made that Kael was anti-gay, which, as Seligman demonstrates, is about the furthest thing from the truth imaginable).<br />Seligman has a lot of interest to say not only about the two women but about the blurring of the division between high art and \\"pop culture,\\" as well as the absurdity of the in-fighting that goes on in American intellectual circles. He comes to no real conclusions about which of the two writers is likely to be remembered most 100 years from now, although that's not really his purpose.	2004-07-18
US	49255583	RJFVW8HQIXHN8	0385182864	994030822	Reagan's America	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Valuable treatment of the meaning of Reagan the man	Those who criticize Wills for &quot;sloppy work&quot; are off base and clearly have an ax to grind. On the other hand, this book is not a &quot;consummate&quot; piece of work, either. The task of writing a Reagan biography is virtually impossible. Edmund Morris tried to do it and wound up with a botched, absurd, fictionalized mess. <br />Wills doesn't pretend that this book is a biography. It's actually an essay in book-length form (41 short chapters, perhaps a botched attempt at writing 40 chapters to match Reagan's status as 40th president) meditating on specific episodes from Reagan's life, particularly his childhood, adolescence, and initial career as sportscaster, movie star, and Screen Actors Guild president, and the relation of Reagan's life and self-image, and his construction of that image, with the perceptions of America, particularly in connection with the mythmaking of Americans -- their propensity to willfully forget the reality of the American past in order to build a version of the past that serves as a comforting and communal illusion in a time of unprecedented chaos and change. Reagan, Wills explains, is the perfect emblem of that illusion: &quot;The power of his appeal is the great joint confession that we cannot live with our real past, that we not only prefer but need a substitute.&quot; <br />Wills' book is not the hatchet job that some make it out to be. He clearly has a respect for Reagan's story, his communicating magic, and his ability as a public figure to unite the American people behind a common purpose, even if that purpose is largely mythical. Nor is the book the testimony to sainthood that many of Reagan's admirers would want. It is clearly critical of Reagan's forgetfulness, his willingness to simplify, his urge to blur distinctions and to make up details of his own life and of American history out of thin air. <br />It is for the most part a balanced book, although it does not, unfortunately, do any justice to the man's time as President, which is the most significant part of Reagan's legacy. The book was published in 1987, but it really ends with the war against Grenada in 1983, saying virtually nothing about Reagan's presidency and life beyond that point other than a very brief mention of the 1984 campaign and several (too many) mentions of the movie &quot;Back to the Future&quot; (at one point Wills confuses the movie's date of release, saying that Reagan mentioned it in his 1982 State of the Union address; the movie was released in 1985). Wills also touches on some events of Reagan's first term, but only sketchily. <br />Anyone expecting this to be a thorough treatment of Reagan's presidency will be severely disappointed. However, it has a great deal of value as an exposition of the reasons why Reagan was a success, or was perceived as a success, as a president. Its final two chapters, two essays on the relation of Reagan to America and its relation to him, are breathtaking.	2004-06-28
US	49255583	R1A7LE9AJK3U7W	0192100378	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A worthwhile edition of a classic	I'm not going to get into the whole &quot;Is this great literature&quot; debate with this novel. If you don't think already this novel is a masterpiece, nothing I say is going to convince you otherwise. This edition, though, is well worth picking up. It preserves the orthography and other quirks of Swift's prose and includes an intriguing, though a bit abrupt (as though written on deadline) &quot;introduction&quot; by Jeanette Winterson, who puzzlingly preoccupies herself with the Houyhnhnms at the expense of the other parts of the novel.	2004-06-24
US	49255583	R3TIM52PVIUFAZ	039302038X	383299946	Strangers: Homosexual Love in the Nineteenth Century	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An eye-opener	This book is an eye-opener, and it is a rich, well-written, masterful piece of cultural history. It also clears up a lot of misconceptions, both about gay history and about the Victorian era. Robb does not write boringly or dully, does not get bogged down in minutiae, does not accept received wisdom at face value, does not pander to constituencies or trends, and most of all, does not make the frequent error of succumbing to anachronistic condescension toward the period he is writing about. I finished the book with a new appreciation of a period of time in which the conventional thinking leads us to believe that, other than the tragic figure of Oscar Wilde (who does not escape Robb's cliche-busting), nothing and nobody of significance that would later fit into the rubric of \\"gay\\" existed -- or mattered (or if they did, they were pathetic, unhappy, and suicidal). Karl Heinrich Ulrichs, for instance, usually merits only a footnote in most historical accounts. Here he is full-blooded and well-drawn.	2004-06-05
US	49255583	R38UR2QIH85PNZ	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Essential for American foreign policy and politics buffs	In a season when almost every &quot;serious&quot; political book is a tedious partisan screed, this book is a breath of fresh air. <br />Mann does not take sides. He does not vilify the Bush &quot;war cabinet.&quot; Nor, as some reviewers of this book here seem to imply, does he whitewash them. What he does is to give an incredibly detailed analysis of the events, personal relationships, and policies that shaped the six major figures of the Bush administration: Cheney, Rumsfeld, Powell, Rice, Armitage, and Wolfowitz. He covers a wide breadth of time -- all the way back to the Nixon years, when Rumsfeld and Cheney got their starts in government -- and meticulously details how, over the succeeding years, each of these figures gradually broke with the traditional guiding principles of &quot;realpolitik&quot; espoused by figures like Henry Kissinger and developed the muscular unilateralist views that now, for better or worse, guide American foreign policy. <br />This book is not about George W. Bush, and Mann makes that clear. It is about the policymakers who back him up. There are amazing insights and historical details here that no other book I've read about the administration has. If you are looking for a book that buttresses your preconceptions about the Bush administration, this is not the book for you (although there are enough quotes from each of the six figures in here to make them rue ever having uttered a public word), and there are many other books by Clarke, Wilson, Hannity, Coulter, etc., etc., out there to satisfy that need. <br />I would have liked to see more emphasis on the figures' formative years, and I would have also liked to see more focus on specific points in time, such as, for example, the Robert Dole campaign, for which Rumsfeld and Cheney did background work, and the interpersonal conflicts and grudges (of which there are many, reaching back many years) among some of the figures can be confusing, but these are minor issues. This is a well-researched, probing, and (a welcome change) unfailingly thoughtful book about modern politics and foreign affairs.	2004-05-22
US	49255583	R1KM7BTAPDD8YU	0375411283	331413461	The New Biographical Dictionary of Film	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A great argument starter, if nothing else	Yes: this book is going to tick off a lot of people. Thomson's style and criticism are an acquired taste. I bristle and shake my fist at a number of his opinions. I don't think Tom Cruise and Mel Gibson and Jim Carrey and Nicole Kidman are great actors; Thomson does. Thomson has contempt for many of the directors and actors I respect and love. He thinks Humphrey Bogart is \\"a limited actor, not quite honest enough with himself.\\" He calls Orson Welles a \\"charlatan.\\" He calls the incomparable Hitchcock \\"an impoverished inventor of thunbscrews who shows us the human capacity for inflicting pain, but no more.\\" He idolizes lesser-known directors like Yasujiro Ozu and sniffs condescendingly at celebrated figures like Akira Kurosawa. <br />Yet, Thomson makes no pretense that he's writing for everybody. Nor did Pauline Kael, for example, make such pretense. As Thomson himself writes, \\"Indeed, the stance taken here as your needling, provocative, argumentative companion at the movies takes it for granted that in the reading you will begin to compose your own response.\\" That says it all.<br />Some people read film critics because no matter how much you disagree with them, they have something worthwhile, witty, thought-provoking, or just plain infuriating to say. Why else read film criticism at all? This book is a nearly thousand-page rollicking journey through some of the major figures of film, and it belongs on every film lover's shelf. I pick it up and refer to it often, and want to throw it across the room almost as often.	2004-05-09
US	49255583	R4XZPW5NP86Y9	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Brilliant and absorbing	It's been years since I've read through a novel in essentially one sitting. That's how absorbing this one is. I heard excerpts from the novel read on BBC Radio before I read the book and I was sold. The novel is amazing, not just because of the convincing way the author assumes the voice of the protagonist, a 15-year-old autistic from Swindon named Christopher, but because of the humanity he endows all of the characters with, from the seriously troubled father to the multitude of confused and harried police officers that Christopher interacts with. Like others here, I was also struck and mesmerized by the excursions into other parts of Christopher's mind, particularly the parts that are genius at math and science. This novel is much more than the sum of its parts. It can be read as (not limited to but including) a detective story, a Bildungsroman, a tale of family conflict, and a meditation on memory, socialization, and information, all in one. The tone is never one of bathos -- you feel Christopher's pain and confusion, and you are caught up in his plight, but you never feel manipulated to pity him. Absolutely brilliant.	2004-05-02
US	49255583	R3HP6WMKLKXD9I	0810847604	319173496	Hunting and Gathering on the Information Savanna: Conversations on Modeling Human Search Abilities	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Search behavior explored and compared to the natural world	A quirky but very useful and well-written book about the information search process and its analogs in the world of natural selection and evolutionary adaptation. There are essays about submarine chasing and skip tracing by Brian O'Connor -- not the usual dry stuff of academic texts on human search behavior. At the same time, there is a strong (and well-cited) intellectual underpinning to everything here. The editors call their work &quot;intellectual hopscotch&quot; -- the same metaphor could apply to the human search behavior they describe. This is a worthwhile and compelling book.	2004-04-22
US	49255583	R2MY3CKVLIB05V	0670031305	183103177	Elizabeth Costello	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Brilliant and difficult	\\"Elizabeth Costello\\" is at turns brilliant and difficult, like much of Coetzee's work. On the one hand, the polemical structure is mesmerizing, if you are not pushed away by its seeming coldness and distance (Coetzee's writing in general is quite icy, and if you are not prepared for it, it can come as a shock, if not off-putting). The discursions about Wolfgang Kohler and Srinivasa Ramanujan are erudite, fascinating, and compelling, and, as always, Coetzee is a sharp, pointed observer of postcolonial and post-imperial relations. On the other hand, the protagonist, a fading, aging female Australian novelist who has a following large enough to allow her to make a living lecturing on college campuses and on cruise ships (meant perhaps to be a shadow of Iris Murdoch or Doris Lessing) is clearly an extension of the author's persona, and is often unconvincing and thinly-drawn as a character.	2004-04-03
US	49255583	R1CUNIZDB63M13	0700612521	557803840	The Modern American Presidency	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent overview of Presidency from McKinley to GW Bush	This book is both erudite and accessible, and it's an excellent survey of the modern Presidency, which Gould, a respected University of Texas historian, points out has been transformed in roughly the past hundred years from an intimate, folksy, at times nearly one-man operation into an unwieldy, unworkable, and dangerously out-of-touch apparatus that has far less to do with running the country than it does with raising cash, making meaningless appearances and feeding the media, and getting re-elected to a Constitutionally-allowed (and historically-mandated) second term that in most cases is a failure compared with the first term. (Can you think of a President since Franklin Roosevelt whose second term was more successful than the first?) <br />Other reviewers of this book have pointed out that Gould's position on the evolution of the presidency is a paradox, since in order to be effective, the modern president must be a master of the perpetual campaign, and yet the perpetual campaign is what Gould believes is the bane of the presidency, transforming it into a position of celebrity and spectacle rather than one of leadership and policy. However, that is a paradox that needs to be examined more deeply in a philosophical context; this book is a survey, not a political science text, and Gould gets points for raising the paradox, which is a provocative one, in the first place.<br />The book is full of anecdotes and lucid detail about the modern presidents, along with Gould's snappy and precise evaluations of the strengths and weaknesses of each, and the factors in the broader political culture of each man's term in office that changed the presidency forever. He is not particularly partisan in his political stance; he has good and bad to say about each president. There are many surprises in this short but rewarding book, and there are excellent suggestions for further reading at the back.	2004-03-18
US	49255583	R716Z46TYK0WR	0520228103	161903999	Epic Encounters: Culture, Media, and U.S. Interests in the Middle East, 1945-2000 (American Crossroads)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent  exploration of cultural and social identity	An incredibly good book. McAlister dissects and analyzes the representations of the Middle East in various media -- movies, news, plays, books, etc. -- and their relationships to the projection of US global power and the shaping of US cultural identity since the end of World War II. As she puts it, her goal is to address the absence of culture from discussions of the history of US imperialism, the absence of empire from discussions of US culture, and the absence of the US from discussions of postcolonial imperialism.<br />Among her subjects, all of which she treats deftly and with attentive detail, are: Amiri Baraka's &quot;A Black Mass,&quot; the Israeli military raid on Entebbe, the 1977 John Frankenheimer movie &quot;Black Friday,&quot; the tour of King Tutankhamen's artifacts through the United States during 1977-1978, Hal Lindsey's &quot;The Late Great Planet Earth,&quot; the rise of the Moral Majority, the Iran hostage crisis of 1979-1980 and its obsessive coverage in the US media, the prevalence of military revenge movies in the 1980s like &quot;Navy Seals&quot; and &quot;Delta Force,&quot; Betty Mahmoody's book &quot;Not without My Daughter,&quot; and the Gulf War. <br />I found particularly compelling her discussion of 1950s biblical epics, such as &quot;Ben-Hur&quot; and &quot;The Ten Commandments.&quot; The recent controversy over &quot;The Passion of the Christ&quot; is put into definite context when you see how &quot;The Ten Commandments&quot; was received (and what purposes it served) when it was released in 1956.	2004-03-17
US	49255583	R2IT8REP2MM50C	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	3	162	214	N	N	A flawed polemic, but worth the reading	The description of this book as &quot;devastating&quot; -- well, would that it were so. The true history of the Bush family will probably have to wait another fifty years to see the light of day, if not more. <br />Phillips has not written a history, he has written a polemic. It's frequently an engrossing polemic, but it cannot be described as dispassionate, nor can it be described as complete. <br />The Bush family's penchant for secrecy and disinformation is one of the major themes here (along with its role as a dynastic clan akin to old-time European monarchist regimes, and even the right-wing nationalist regime of Hirohito/Tojo in imperialist Japan), but the irony is that there is so little objective source material to work with that Phillips is at pains to prove almost everything he writes. He is prone to affixing every other sentence he writes with disclaimers and rationalizations about why what he has just written is conjecture. This does not make for a convincing narrative, and, in fact, is plain irritating. <br />The related problem is sourcing: it tells volumes that the first endnote in Phillips' book is a cite to an October 2000 Vanity Fair article by Gail Sheehy. There is virtually no primary source material here, which makes some sense because there is virtually no primary source material available, but nevertheless, the claim that this book is somehow a sucker punch to the administration is belied by the facts, of which (in this book, anyway) there are remarkably few. <br />It also strains credibility that many of the sources Phillips relies upon for his arguments are similarly flawed polemics with obvious axes to grind. It would have been nice to see somebody other than Elizabeth Mitchell and Bill Minatuglio popping up again and again in the endnotes.<br />All that having been said, the book makes some compelling and troubling arguments, and the arguments deserve airing and attention. <br />One last quibble: no bibliography. It's extremely annoying tohave to page through over 20 pages of endnotes to get cites and references.	2004-03-16
US	49255583	R2E98L0NV3V9Z9	0684865602	736554141	Flowers in the Dustbin: The Rise of Rock and Roll, 1947-1977	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Great history, but stops short of excellence	Miller is a great writer, and he conveys an authority about the history of early rock'n'roll that is impressive, but his authority falls off a cliff when he goes past 1975. He has no time for anything recorded after the death of Presley, which means that he essentially snubs everything in the last generation (or more) of popular music. <br />Don't be fooled by the subtitle. Even if the book is supposedly about the &quot;rise&quot; of rock music, it is even more about the author's opinion that the music died off as soon as it &quot;peaked.&quot; While I can understand the point of view, especially as I get on in years and cringe at most of what I hear on the radio, to imply that rock music died in 1977 is the height of absurdity, not to mention a willful ignorance of history.	2004-02-05
US	49255583	R3VE5DKSSPT0R6	0786416084	155126537	Revolting Librarians Redux: Radical Librarians Speak Out	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Awesome and essential	This is a book for librarians and library students (and anyone else who cares about libraries). It's a book that's essential to have on your shelf if you're either of those, or thinking about becoming one. <br />It's an irreverent update of the 1972 book \\"Revolting Librarians,\\" which I read while I was applying to library schools. That book was written in a much different time, and some of its writing was dated and showed it, but its attitude was what was key: a brawling, feisty collection of poems and essays and other pieces written by librarians and paraprofessionals who were tired of the bureaucratization of librarianship. The book really took a serious and long-overdue look at the tension between librarianship as a calling and librarianship as a career, a tension which, if anything, is even more pronounced thirty-odd years later.<br />I have to admit that if I'd had \\"Redux\\" before I'd applied to library school, I might have not been so gung-ho about applying (or attending). But that's the beauty of this book. You need to know what you're getting into, and this book provides that. There's an essay on \\"What Library Schools Still Aren't Teaching Us\\" (a lot), and there's a list (sarcastic, of course) of \\"What I Really Learned in Library School.\\" If that's not enough, there's a cartoon by Alison Bechdel and a short piece by her on why Mo decided to go to library school.<br />There are also great sections on jobs, career and other librarianship issues, on individual librarians and their experiences, and a bunch of pieces by contributors to the original book. <br />Highly recommended -- no, more than that -- absolutely necessary.	2004-01-29
US	49255583	R2UNS6TNY35GJB	1565847636	326541616	The Dream Life: Movies, Media, and the Mythology of the Sixties	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent book about 50s-70s movies and culture	This is a great book. It touches on an almost dizzying number of milestones, from the fifties TV show ''The Next Voice You Hear'' to Brian De Palma's movie ''Blow Out.'' <br />The point of the book, if there is one that can be easily summarized, is that political and cultural events (especially films) first became genuinely inseparable during the 1960s (not dissimilar to the points that Marshall McLuhan made in ''Understanding Media'' and Daniel Boorstin made in ''The Image: or What Happened to the American Dream'' while history was happening; but, as Hoberman points out, that history could not have been fully understood by those prophets in the midst of it). <br />This is a masterfully rendered cultural history. Hoberman's style can get breathless at times, and there are a lot of films and events to keep up with, but the narrative (and the analysis) are involving, cogent, and thoughtful. Think ''The Dirty Dozen,'' ''Easy Rider,'' ''Bonnie & Clyde,'' ''Blow Up,'' ''The Wild Bunch,'' ''Shampoo'' (and songs like ''The Ballad of the Green Berets''): they're all here, along with the cultural context that they fed into and the ''dream life'' that they helped construct.	2004-01-26
US	49255583	R3RNTCCPI5GZ9P	034546723X	34128067	Fame and Obscurity: A Book About New York, a Bridge, and Celebrities on the Edge . . .	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Fantastic portraits of DiMaggio, Sinatra, etc.	I say 4 stars only because of the datedness of some of the material. But the pieces on Frank Sinatra and Joe DiMaggio in this book (both written in 1966) are brilliant and incisive portrayals of a time and states of mind (and of icons in an age when celebrity was in some ways larger than life than it is today and in some ways refreshingly not) that are both long gone.	2004-01-15
US	49255583	RY4Y0XRAI43SS	006093090X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Not believable, except in parts	I found this book to be a fun read, but it's not a \\"masterpiece\\" or a \\"triumph.\\"  Even by Maupin's \\"Tale of the City\\" standards, this is a strangely unsatisfying novel.  I thought the storyline itself was confusing and did not really lead much of anywhere.  I was fascinated with this book more as a document of Maupin's self-indulgence than as an act of fictional creativity.  <br />I would have liked to see a novel that spent more time with Noone's breakup with his long-time lover, Jess.  The dynamics of Noone's heartbreak in the context of seeing a lover move from almost certain death to a completely different plane are handled wonderfully, but it would have been preferable to see this story moved to the forefront and the hokey 13-year-old-as-counselor gimmick moved to the background.  The novel that Maupin really should have written, unfortunately, is not what we get.	2004-01-09
US	49255583	R8KWHAVD40KGU	1573223565	687876775	Songbook	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Smart and idiosyncratic	It's a great book. <br />Don't read it if you expect him to write about all of the songs you think he should consider \\"great,\\" for reasons you might traditionally give for liking a song. Hornby, like a lot of great writers, writes about songs that he likes because they remind him of things: they remind him of other songs that they inspired him to buy, they remind him of why he doesn't listen to them anymore, they remind him of how much he hates the other better-known songs by the same artist because they're overplayed and have had all of the life sucked out of them.<br />He also has a wonderful way of digressing -- which other reviewers here don't like, but which I think is the best thing about the book. The book isn't about the songs at all, really. It's not about the people who wrote \\"Needle in a Haystack\\" or \\"Heartbreaker,\\" about how the songs were produced or their chart positions or their histories. It's about how those songs make him feel, how they made him feel when he first heard them (in fact, he has a whole digression, the best thing in the book, about how disappointed he is that he can't know what it must have felt like to be 19 or 20 years old and to hear Bob Dylan's \\"Like a Rolling Stone\\" when it first got played on the radio), how certain things can't be recaptured, can't be reproduced, can't be relived (he refers to how awful it is that most pop music these days is so overplayed and overexposed that you never get a chance to develop a unique and intimate individual relationship with it, which is one of the reasons why a lot of people under 30 love music that would never get played at Starbucks).<br />He does go rather overboard on \\"Thunder Road,\\" but it's his favorite song, and he's entitled. I would probably go overboard if I had a favorite song.<br />His essay at the end about Patti Smith is pure genius.	2004-01-07
US	49255583	R377TRZXE3WZNV	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Traffic school	It looks as though the Eggers mystique has diminished markedly since this book first came out. <br />I finished the book after forcing myself to slog through the final 175 pages. There are a few moments that definitely glimmer. He has a paragraph describing his frustration with San Francisco that is one of the best rants about San Francisco I've ever read. But the rest of it is repetitive and almost numbingly self-indulgent. <br />All in all, reading this book was like suffering through a day of traffic school.	2004-01-05
US	49255583	R2BLJYCY3PW6FF	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Too compact for such a complicated subject	This book was very densely packed, as others of Armstrong's books I've read have been. But it also suffered (as others of her books do) from a certain lack of focus, a lack of central themes pulling the disparate material together, a lack of a lodestar to bring the reader's attention back to the main issues of the book. <br />I finished the book almost as an afterthought, having learned a good deal on the surface about the Buddha and the society he flourished in, but not having learned all that much beyond that about the religious life he established and extolled. <br />To be fair, the limitation of the series is that it forces the authors to write about complex and multifaceted lives in a relatively short space -- the books are not only short (this one was under 190 pages long), but smaller in size than the average book. <br />Having said that, I found myself longing for some kind of thematic cohesion that would keep me from getting lost every time I saw a protagonist's name, or a Pali religious term, or a place name repeated.	2004-01-05
US	49255583	R1BJHBLYACPEP6	0385721358	841891973	Look at Me: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Ultimately a very disappointing novel	This was a page-turner, as they say. The first half was particularly compelling, although you quickly got the sense that here was a popular entertainment with high-philosophy pretensions that it couldn't quite handle the weight of. The other extremely irritating thing about the novel was the unconvincing efforts of the author to get inside the heads of her many supporting characters. The voice of the main character, the accident-damaged ex-model Charlotte Swenson, was pitch-perfect; this is probably because it was an extension of the author herself. <br />But everyone else, with the possible exception of Charlotte's childhood friend Ellen Metcalf, was off-pitch in one way or another. The world of the other Charlotte, Ellen's seventeen-year-old daughter, was hilariously off-base. What current-day teenagers, even white ones living in Rockford, IL, use words like \\"dire,\\" \\"egregious,\\" and \\"peachy\\"? <br />There were two black characters, a gay modeling agent and a straight homeless man. Both spoke in voices inauthentic to the cultures they were supposed to represent. The character of the identity-shifting Lebanese terrorist Aziz (and the foggy examination of his motivations) was even more unconvincing; the other male characters were made of cardboard or else too vaguely developed to stick with you. (There was also a paragraph about the World Trade Center that seemed almost flippant after the events of 2001.) <br />On the other hand, the plot was intriguing enough that you wanted to get to the end of the book, no matter how poorly it moved in the second half. But the ending was flat and seemed tacked-on. It sure didn't resolve any of the stories of the characters who weren't the protagonist.	2004-01-05
US	49255583	R2UXLHEMOBPHW7	0374527326	515834350	The Male Body: A New Look at Men in Public and in Private	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Patronizing writing style diminishes this book	Bordo makes some good points, and the subject matter is fascinating, but the breezy chattiness of her prose is off-putting, and there is a condescending \\"wink, nudge\\" tone to this book that is annoying. If you can look past that, this is an intriguing and well-considered book.	2004-01-05
US	49255583	R18D1C134L7WLU	0375701265	166912833	The Money and the Power: The Making of Las Vegas and Its Hold on America	Books	3	25	32	N	N	Maddeningly unsourced	The book has some excellence. It is also extremely breathless in its pace, the way a lot of muckraking books are, and it suffers from an unfortunate habit of inserting the most mundane phrases in quotes and following them (or preceding them) with attributions like \\"with what one casino manager called\\" or \\"as a team of writers would see them\\" or \\"as one journalist reported.\\" <br />Entire paragraphs without attribution (except maybe in the endnotes) that beg for it -- and then in almost every paragraph, one of these pointlessly recurring attributions. It makes for an annoying reading experience. <br />Either cut back on the pointless attributions, create your own descriptions for what you are attributing, or don't attribute at all.	2004-01-05
US	49255583	R1VH0L1XLITXN8	0860916057	945840836	The Imperial Archive: Knowledge and the Fantasy of Empire	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The implications of controlling knowledge	A compact, but dense book about the implications of empire (as much the idea of empire as the actual entity) for the dissemination and transmission (and the manipulation and hoarding) of information. The author starts from the premise that to be the guardian of an empire is to wish for the ultimate archive: a wealth of information that allows you to know and control every aspect of your territory's life, whether the territory is real (as with the British Empire) or imagined (as in the several works of fiction, including Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula,&quot; James Hilton's &quot;Lost Horizon,&quot; and Rudyard Kipling's &quot;Kim,&quot; that the author analyzes). A highly recommended and absolutely enthralling book.	2004-01-04
US	49255583	RP06UHM3BFPNG	1582343497	288461545	Schott's Original Miscellany	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fantastic!	One reviewer opines that this book is of limited use because the compiler collected only what he found interesting. By that standard, Johnson's Dictionary would get a poor Amazon review. <br />Although I can agree with other reviewers that there is some inconsequential fluff here, I found this book highly entertaining and mesmerizing, even if some of the arcana in it was of little direct interest to me. I loved the chart of US Presidents that included not only their ages when they took office, but whether they were left-handed, red-headed, whether they had facial hair, and whether they died on July 4. I loved the list of unusual deaths of Burmese kings (one, Nandabayin, laughed himself to death when a visiting European merchant told him that Venice was a free state without a king). I loved the recitation of the British Riot Act of 1714. I loved the list of the 33 degrees of Freemasonry hierarchy. I loved the schematic diagram of Dante's Inferno.<br />What use is this book to you if you're not a reference librarian or a triviaholic? Virtually none. So what? I loved it, and only wish it were much, much longer. Almanac length would be a start.	2004-01-04
US	49255583	RUUQQ5Z0TUZUD	0393050513	593909041	Queer Street: The Rise and Fall of an American Culture, 1947-1985	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Obtuse and infuriating, but .....	The book is infuriating because it is willfully solipsistic. The author is clearly writing to an intended audience, but it's unclear who that audience is; the publisher would like you to think that the book is a \\"seminal\\" record of a \\"mad, bygone era,\\" but it is more accurately described as an obtuse memoir of a particular high-culture gay man's adventures, and as an elegy to a period of time in that culture that is gone and is never to return. <br />McCourt has said that this is a treatment of how gay culture moved from being marginalized and yet somehow pure, to commodified and therefore lacking. But that is not really what this book is about, either; it \\"ends\\" in 1985 (if not much earlier than that), with the death of Rock Hudson, and that can't be really described as the point in time at which it became okay for gay people to be treated as a mainstream target market by advertisers. Nor is it ever really clear what loss McCourt is bemoaning. The jacket copy says that he's bemoaning the \\"death of queer culture,\\" but that's not true; he's lamenting the transformation of that culture from one thing to another.<br />More than anything else, this book is a catalogue of reference points and lists from the late forties, the fifties, and the early sixties, with a lot of impenetrable language, a lot of name-dropping, a lot of tangential versification, dialoguing, and other stream-of-consciousness gibberish, a lot of metaphors from old camp-classic movies (\\"All about Eve\\" being the most prominent), and a hilarious \\"interview\\" with Bette Davis (it is hard to ascertain whether this interview really occurred or is a figment of McCourt's imagination). <br />It's an occasionally compelling book if you have some connection to these reference points, either because you lived with them and through them or because you know people who did, or because you were \\"schooled\\" by people who did (and who forced you to watch \\"All about Eve\\" as many times as it took for you to \\"get\\" it).<br />But if all of that is meaningless to you, this book will probably be meaningless as well, and McCourt sure doesn't go out of his way to make it less meaningless to you. McCourt makes Edmund White look like a minimalist.	2004-01-04
US	49255583	R15T6YC7UVZ5KH	0304361860	581234094	This is Uncool: The 500 Greatest Singles Since Punk and Disco	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best kind of music book: idiosyncratic, opinionated, and ...	Sometimes just plain wrong. I found a lot to disagree with. Joe Jackson is not pablum, for example, although Mulholland clearly believes he is. Also, Simply Red is not the scourge of humanity that Mulholland paints it as. But trifles like this aside, the reason this book is so fun to read is that you can debate and question what his picks are, but you can't question his assertiveness and his willingness to buck received notions of what &quot;classic&quot; music is. Some of his top 500 include Joy Division, Buzzcocks, Boston (&quot;More than a Feeling&quot;!), Sylvester, Gang of Four, Clash, Undertones, Chaka Khan, Magazine, ABBA, and the Stranglers (and that's just 1977 and 1978).<br />Think Nick Hornby, with a much more pronounced bias toward dance, club, soul, hip-hop, and techno. The only small quibble I have is that the book is very definitely Brit-biased; the quibble is really more that a lot of the music he lauds won't be easily obtainable here in the States. But that's a small gripe. This is a great book for browsing, a great book for starting arguments, and a great book for bathroom reading (that's a compliment).	2004-01-04
US	49255583	R1ZHTV946N7AE1	0815716885	225101507	America Unbound: The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Average, and mostly received wisdom	This book, while illuminating in parts (especially its discussion of the rise of the so-called &quot;Vulcans&quot; in and around the administration, from Wolfowitz to Perle to Rice), seems fairly banal and obvious in its conclusions about Bush's foreign policy (i.e., he is applying a newfound assertiveness and bluntness to foreign policy ideals that already existed but were inconsistently applied by prior administrations), and worse, seems cribbed mostly from quotes in newspaper articles and from journal articles written by Bush policymakers. (It was, however, intriguing to read that Condoleezza Rice wrote in 2000 that the US military was not &quot;a police force&quot; and not &quot;designed to build a civilian society.&quot;) It seems that in their zeal to get a book out before the 2004 election cycle the authors did a lot of piecemeal paste work but very little in the way of analysis. That said, the fact is that most books of this type are by definition of limited usefulness, since it is not until several years' time has elapsed (if not decades) that any administration can be fairly or conclusively judged by history.	2004-01-04
US	49255583	R2KEFH4AQFJZ6P	0375411437	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Amazing and a tour de force	Without a doubt this is absolutely one of the three or four best biographies I have ever read. It is sweeping, magisterial, grand, and never insults the intelligence, nor does it assume previous knowledge about the era or the man. Highly recommended.	2003-07-10
