US	49251380	R3F8PP7XIXCMD0	0609602802	904075472	A Conspiracy of Tall Men	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I can only hope not...	Don't get me wrong, I definitely did not dislike this book. Fabulous first try. I love the writing style. The bits of information seemingly thrown in about each character (major or extremely minor) could have been tiresome, but worked for me beautifully in keeping me interested. Did you really need to know about Jack Evers' uneasy relationship with his adopted son? These are facts about a character who appears in about three pages of the novel! But it worked for me because you got a sense of a three dimensional person by a few lines of biographical history instead of twelve pages of unnecessary, dodgey dialogue or actions by this minor character. It gave me a sense of reality within context.<BR>  The plot, however, seemed not to be as strong. It lost a sense of credibility toward the middle and a developed a few flaws toward the end. The end itself I shook my head at, but then again, how do you put an ending to such an intentionally outrageous story and still have the faith of your audience? If Hawley tones it down a bit for us skeptics out there, he may actually convince some of us that at any time Teddy O. Waren may be seated next to us on a plane.	2003-08-24
US	49251380	R1EUVE02IPW505	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Don't compare him to Douglas Adams	The only thing that is alike about Pratchett and Adams is the fact that they're both English... okay and funny. I think this novel, the first of the series I have read, is highly entertaining, funny, and a pretty clear opinion of our own little western civilization. It doesn't take a harty philosophical view of why we exist in this planet, but puts a rather antique twist to modern complexities. Pratchett's talent, I believe, is his ability to not take all of our politics, traditions, and prejudices too seriously--he simply points out that we don't all agree, and no matter where you go, there is going to be someone who just doesn't like you for whatever reason. And the book is really is entertaining on top of that! The dialogue comes very naturally, and the characters are extremely likeable (especially the Igor clan). From other reviews I have read about this book, some of these characters pop up in the other Discworld novels and that's incentive enough for me to enjoy another one or two of thix. Sorry, I had to.	2003-08-24
US	49251380	R3MIB1F1JEZERP	093112297X	219973873	The Girl	Books	4	8	9	N	N	More provacative than a made-for-TV movie	Some of the things that happen to the Girl in this novel are indeed difficult to stomach. Each chapter is like a made-for-TV movie, but one thing stands out: her own reaction. Other than trying to display how hard life was for a young poor girl during the depression, there are not even hints of self pity within herself. As all these tragedies take place, it took me a while to read what wasn't being said. This Girl has no self reproach or judgements against any of the other women in the story. For everything that happens, she seems to take it all in stride and go on. Even regarding her friend Clara, she looks at her with concern, not pity. She tries to help her; to lift herself and Clara out of an unfortunate situation. The strength of all the women in this novel is astounding when you read what is not even mentioned. This is a subtle yet powerful book.	2003-08-24
US	49251380	R3MV8FJ3IYARDP	0553210092	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another stab at a high school classic	I trudged through this wordy book, like many others, in high school. I previously thought the coolest part was that a married woman had had an affair with a priest. This time around, however, I actually got sucked into the book itself, not into what had happened before.<BR>  Yes, this book is extremely descriptive, but it isn't a book of what happened, but why it happened. Instead of having the reader determine or deduce the motives and minds of the characters, Hawthorne comes out and tells you. That's what makes it so timeless. Had he not written it with such density, I don't think it would be what it is today simply because times, customs, and opinions have changed so much. For many people, I think Dimmesdale's (somewhat hypocritical) pious behavior would have just been dismissed as simple cowardice.<BR>  However, I'm not trying to say that the events of the story are those that only fit into past culture, many of these things happen today, but the treatment is different; it's much more open. For me, even knowing the ending of the story, I almost couldn't bring myself to read the rest because I felt transported into the mindset of the characters. I didn't feel the need to interpret, just observe.	2003-08-24
US	49251380	RTC6ZNWI2DZPQ	0440224330	515786853	Manhattan Nocturne	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Really three and a half stars...	I have to agree with much of what Mr. Brenner said in his review of this novel. Yes, it does start out very well, and continues to hold interest, but the end sort of peters out, almost as if Mr. Harrison was either rushed or just got bored with what he was writing. The end of a mystery should be the most intense part, in my opinion, and the beginning and middle seemed to hold more intensity than the conclusion.<br />But, there are a great many things I enjoyed about this book. The &quot;devil may care&quot; attitude of narration was one of them. Porter seems to know he's not a &quot;good&quot; person in others eyes, but it doesn't seem to affect his storytelling. He doesn't apologize to the reader, but is trying to work things out for himself.<br />I also enjoyed the character of Caroline. Her personality wasn't immediately shown as the typical girl of noir novels who comes into the detective's (in this case journalist's) office with a hat pulled over one eye, wanting him to find out who killed her late husband. She subtley changes as the relationship between her and Porter becomes more familiar. Even in the end, although much is revealed, she remains not quite mysterious, just not understood.<br />This isn't a bad read, but it is disappointing. I'd like to see Harrison avoid the realm of mystery and perhaps try something more general. The writing is good, even though the story is somewhat lacking.	2001-06-20
US	49251380	R34IADM0KD9LYE	0385334583	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	6	7	N	N	More like ten stars!	Everything about this book made my mind spin in awe. The story, uniquely told through fluid &quot;flashbacks&quot;; the characters, especially the narrator; and the prose, that sang like poetry (and I am not a poetry person) were all placed perfectly in place.<br />This is the first novel from Baldwin I have read, and it will definately not be the last. I can't remember ever reading a book where it is told not through flashbacks, but through memories tempted by anticipation of an event yet to come. I love that. It's not just a cold recollection, it's as though each scene was tinted with David's emotions about himself and about what will happen to Giovanni.<br />At first, I was waiting for Hella's part to become apparent, but then I saw that she isn't what David is thinking about as he awaits the dawn. (Hey, sometimes I'm a little slow.) This could have easily been just a long inner monologue within one character, but it contributes the fascination and entertainment of a story.<br />Wonderful. This is how I would like to be able to write when I grow up.	2001-06-14
US	49251380	R1J5VE9SZG43OO	0451524217	645845418	McTeague	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Not really giving San Francisco a good name....	I like this book, I really do, but I was troubled by the first eighty or so pages. I didn't know what to think. Was I supposed to laugh at McTeague's clumsiness? Were the characters supposed to be reflections of the real townspeople of San Francisco in 1899? These questions, however, were soon wiped away as the story unfolded.<br />Norris does a good job of putting rhyme with reason when describing the characters' motives for many of the things that occur. The repetition of a lot of descriptions seem a bit cumbersome at first, but then I got the feeling that these are the only words to describe them. This is a great novel in that Norris was able to make me feel for (or against) each person. But, he also makes them so rounded that you can't hate any one entirely.<br />The subplots to this book intermingle with perfection, each one coming to the desired ending (without being predictable) and adding the communal feel to what is going on with the main participants. The sharp contrast between good and evil fill the reader's thirst for revenge and peace in two of these stories. By kicking these feelings into me, it made me realize how not-so-perfect my mannerisms are, and therefore I don't think this is a &quot;story of San Fransisco,&quot; but of America itself.<br />The language in this novel astounded me. It reads as true today as it relates to the turn of the century. When Heise shouts &quot;Get out!&quot; after receiving a bit of shocking news, I couldn't help but think of Elaine on Seinfeld. I know it probably wasn't meant in quite that way, but just the fact that it matches today's slang is rather remarkable.<br />This is a good book to read for both entertainment and enlightenment.	2001-06-14
US	49251380	R1UIG4SPL6RJYS	0812523377	363093333	Jane Eyre (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I Have But One Regret...	I hate when I see a movie first, then read the book. You'd think I'd have learned my lesson by now, but... Anyway, this is a wonderful book. The more I read the Bronte sisters' novels, the more I like them.<br />The eloquence in language throughout this novel doesn't dilute its greatness by hindering the reader of today by having to decipher the meaning of each sentence. The story, though incredible, is also believable because it is told through the eyes of the one who experiences it. The characters are well-rounded, the plot is juicy, and the climax is fabulous. I love how, even though it is told in past tense, it is as though Jane is reliving each moment and her moods inside the narrative correspond to whatever is happening in her life at that time. It makes her seem even more real.<br />It is a long book, but definately worth picking up!	2001-06-05
US	49251380	R39JENEGUBXWXQ	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good, but not up to King standards	I'm biased, let's just start with that. If this had been written by another author, I may nave given it 5 stars, but having read at least ten of Stephen King's books in the past, I don't find it to be up to his usual unique chilling style.<br />Parts of this book are great. The opening is fabulous. He really gets to the heart of how truly disgusting Norman is. No messing about there. But, as it continues, this book seems somewhat unnecessarily repetitive and predictable. I felt sort of underestimated as a reader in many parts. I get the fact that Norman wants to find Rose and &quot;talk to her up close.&quot; I get that Rose is frightened. However, I don't get the quick romance between her and Bill. It seems as though King didn't want men to think he was man-bashing and women to think he was saying all men are evil, so he threw in the character of Bill, who's virtually a picture perfect guy. I thought it made Bill look sort of like a sissy, and not someone as strong as Rose would end up with.<br />Other than this (which I think is a lot), I did enjoy the descriptions and actions inside the &quot;alternate world,&quot; and I immensely liked the character of Anna Stevenson, who is disappointingly underused.<br />Kind of a &quot;Sleeping with the Enemy&quot; meets &quot;Alice Through the Looking Glass,&quot; but not a bad read, and I have hope for future great works from King.	2001-06-05
US	49251380	R5I16L9DAWIE1	0671625829	312152799	Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency	Books	5	6	6	N	N	It's a shame there will be no more	I love this book. I love all of &quot;Hitchhiker's&quot; too, but this one seems to be different. Although sprinkled with the standard elements of original sci-fi and comedy, &quot;Dirk&quot; has a darker tone to it. Although we see the Earth blown up and the end of the universe described in &quot;Hitchhiker's&quot;, the human race is pretty much described as &quot;mostly harmless.&quot; In this novel, the human race is more deviant, in some ways somewhat unknowingly, but still a little evil in our ways.<br />It takes a bit longer to have all of the situations come together, but in typical Adams fashion, everything makes sense in the end, and I felt, like Arthur Dent, as if Yay! I actually understood. That's what I like about Adams' books, he not only stretches the limits of the imagination, but gives the feel of the Aha! at the end.<br />This book is definately a departure from the trilogy as he incorporates the &quot;detective novel&quot; genre into his twists of humor and sci-fi. A must read for any fan of fiction.	2001-05-25
US	49251380	R2R32JY2DFDEFW	1558611541	824703234	Weeds	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Boldly going where few in the early 20th century had gone...	Given what I had heard about this book before I read it I expected a monotonous novel about a mean-spirited woman to leave me prematurely thinking, &quot;What am I gonna read next?&quot; Happily, I found myself the opposite.<br />First of all, I love Ms. Kelley's style of bold writing. She doesn't beat around the bush when it comes to supplying detail. So many writers of the time before it became &quot;hip&quot; to try and shock readers with unspeakable situations were often obscure and obtuse about such things, but details about &quot;the knitting needle,&quot; and premarital sex not only surprised me, but allowed me to continue the flow of the story without having to try and decipher what was going on through ten pages of puzzle pieces.<br />And as to the character of Judith, I agree she has some flaws (as is human) but I don't think she is evil. She makes mistakes, but that keeps her interesting. However, she's not without some redemption. For example, when she is contemplating the possible death of her child, she doesn't wish it for hope of a lighter load of work for herself, she wishes only that they escape the life she knows is destined for the child. And in the end she prays for their life. I would call that a mother's love to want true happiness for that child.<br />The conclusion is a rather painful one. It makes sense and follows the timbre of the story, but leaves one with a sadness that things should have turned out better for her. On the outset, it seems to be almost a relief, but there is a great sense of loss which left me with a broken heart. This is definately a great read.	2001-05-25
US	49251380	R189CILIEAXCRX	0684824795	240643617	Snow White	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Crazy man, crazy!	This is one of those books that it's easy to get a lot from, and leaves you with endless questions as well. It's one that makes you laugh out loud and makes you say &quot;Huh?&quot; an awful lot. <br />One of the many things I enjoyed about this book is the interweaving of elements from the original tale and the Disney version (Heigh-ho!) The rhythmn of the narrative almost made me snap my fingers along to the beat. And the originality within a retold story put me in mind of Anne Sexton's work with fairy tales, but with a decidedly comic view.<br />With layer upon layer (which I can't seem to get enough of) that extends from the solidarity of modern relationships to the questions of &quot;How unique is the American culture? Can it be preserved?&quot; I saw many examples where exploration is encouraged.<br />But many many many questions linger. First and foremost: Who is the narrator? More like: Which is the narrator? All of the &quot;seven dwarfs&quot;, or just one? Are the all facets of one person? I could really go on all day.<br />This is truly a book worthy of a second, third, and fourth read. There is just too much for my little mind to grasp at once, but definately a novel that entertains as well as, (and I hate this phrase but...) &quot;makes you think.&quot;	2001-05-25
US	49251380	RAET5I352E14E	0881030856	498635851	Watership Down	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I don't think Bugs Bunny would be this innovative...	This novel is not only a fable, but it's an entertaining and unususal read as well. It took me a bit to get used to the fact that rabbits aren't being personified as people but are actually treated as rabbits. Although I was able to enjoy the book more as I got to know the characters.<br />The interweaving of history and mystics with an exciting story made the last 200 pages go quickly. The fact that these are rabbits gives leeway to make a story that would not be a typical tale of human struggle, but also goes to show the differences in the way people have progressed and nature has remained true to its own way of being.<br />Another remarkable thing is that even though there are hardships in the story, it left me feeling uplifted at the end. It just seems so rare in contemporary literature to be left with such a clean feeling. I appreciate that.<br />The details which may seem tedious at points are also startling. Things which may be taken for granted are highlighted and used well. For example, the height of a rabbit as opposed to that of a person comes into play. When the group comes upon a new area they can't simply take a few steps and look around and decide it's okay. There are pages of exploration over just a few hundred feet.<br />I think this would be a good first book for any adolescent to read. It tends to leave a good mark on the brain.	2001-05-20
US	49251380	R2VY2I5JYP9YFL	0140280510	783873969	Billy Dead	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Now I know I'm a conservative	This isn't a bad book, but I don't think it was really for me. I've read novels with shocking and explicit parts, but the &quot;one can't choose who they love&quot; theme was a little out of the park for me. I didn't feel, however, that most of the book was included simply for shock value. The impressive tone seemed to downplay the need to rubberneck.<br />But, it doesn't matter how the text is painted, it still made me read most of it with a quizzical look on my face. I can't seem to come up with any reasons why I feel it is a little too far except for personal preference. <br />There is in my mind one fatal flaw which perhaps can explain my disdain. If Trish had wanted a relationship with her father, would it have changed the story altogether? With everything else that happens in this novel, I don't see any way to say no to that question. I'm trying not to give too much away, but that one I can't answer for myself.<br />However, this is a decent read. It is well written in the areas of continuity and language. Sterotypes would have been easy to allow to pop into the story, but Ms. Reardon seems to keep them away. I would read her again--after I read the back cover and some reviews.	2001-05-20
US	49251380	R2ORB1LSRILST3	0140284087	345200515	Carry On, Jeeves (A Jeeves and Bertie Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Now I know where they get all those ideas for sit-com plots!	This was a refreshing book to read. Funny and well-written, not only was it an introduction to English vernacular, but it seems Mr. Wodehouse was a huge influence on comedy writers today. Each chapter could have been an episode of any number of sit-coms. But, I don't want to downplay the value of this novel. I can't help but imagine what it was like to look at this as a new genre.<br />But, these &quot;episodes&quot; still aren't as stale as some of those viewable today in primetime. Most are unpredictable, and the situations are unique (somewhat due in part to the time period, but also because they are realistically presented.) All the characters are likeable, even though they each have a teeny bit of deviousness, but that makes them more human. Their funny and they aren't plastic. They aren't completely real, but they aren't completely paper-made either. They're just plain entertaining.<br />The last chapter of this book is the tip-topper of the whole novel. Just like a good show, it brings everything together. You wonder throughout just what Jeeves' angle really is, and in the end you find out. I can't wait to read another installment!	2001-03-20
US	49251380	R1BSUVXENB8QS0	0736608311	213646163	Bullet Park	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Are white picket fences worht it?	Yay! I loved this book. Finally, an author that doesn't have to break into four page long philosophical tangents to get his point across. By making this story an actual story, I think Cheever gives the reader the chance to decipher the metaphor of suburbia for his/herself. Not only is it profound, but it's entertaining as well--a rarity in classic fiction, I believe.<br />And this was extremely entertaining and well written. I enjoyed being able to define the characters through their actions (not through several paragraphs of interspection) although classifying them is not as clear cut. There are elements involved with both Hammer and Nailles that apply to the &quot;every man&quot;.<br />The &quot;villian&quot; is the one who attempts to &quot;save&quot; America, and the &quot;hero&quot; unknowingly stops the horrific action that would have destroyed his family. The layers in this novel pile on each other, but the density is masked within the constant forward motion of the plot. Great book!	2001-03-20
US	49251380	R39OH5S1360I1G	084881441X	60432491	Butterfield 8	Books	4	7	9	N	N	From underground to the surface	I have yet to see this movie, but I was given a vivid picture from reading this book. Being placed in the 1930's, I was almost expecting to be taken to a time and place alien to me. I was astounded in the way O'Hara's society hasn't changed much from the one today. The only difference is that the issues in this novel are more plevalent today than in the hidden crevices of yesterday.<br />I attribute this comparison to his level of writing. If everyone could write like this, all books would be timeless. As well as the lush descriptions of New York, from the start, it is difficult not to feel for Gloria. The rest of the story tries to explain why she is such a person to feel for.<br />I enjoyed seeing a colorful portrait of the thirties as well as getting swept up in the tragic story of a girl who has an inevitable future.	2001-03-20
US	49251380	R23CD8YNMBQ14U	0679433740	331831848	Paradise	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Too much information?	I was interested in this unique story from the first page, but as it unfolded, I felt a bit perplexed. Instead of having a pencil and paper to decode the family trees involved (as I probably should have) I was mopping sweat from my forehead. I almost felt as if I were reading the section in Genesis &quot;Abraham begot Isaac. Isaac begot..&quot; and so forth. But, these people were definately not biblical.<br />The elements of the &quot;supernatural&quot; incorporated in the book were OK, but I felt they were just kind of thrown in there to make things a bit more mysterious. On the surface, it's the story of a close-knit (almost incestuous) society who has a cult of outsiders living near their town.<br />Although the meat of the novel was tough going, I did enjoy the finale. Through all the tumult within, I was uplifted by the end. I wouldn't call this one of Ms. Morrison's best, and it's not &quot;The Bluest Eye&quot;. But, I'm not giving up on her.	2001-03-20
US	49251380	R19ZQ9N7VLT7I9	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What would you do?	I don't think this book is an argument for the Union Army or the Confederate Army. I don't even think this has anything to do with the validity of war. I just think Crane does a great job of describing sensory responses in a hostile situation.<br />Throughout the entire novel, I kept trying to imagine how I would react? Would I have run? I think Crane expects this question, and gives the reader the answer: &quot;You don't know until you're there.&quot; That's what I got from this book.<br />The fact that the characters react to things differently is what I found to be so incredible, because Henry's thoughts and actions are so believable. Throughout the battles, different things trigger his emotions, and they build upon one another as events pan out. He has definately changed by the end of the novel, but the change is smooth. Everything Henry goes through, Crane diligently brings the reader through this realm. The colors and textures, sights and smells just add to the horror of Henry's situation that leaves him trapped inside, and drags the reader along.	2000-10-03
US	49251380	R1GRLK364FUR9F	0393039226	78329873	Tularosa: A Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Not expecting anything left me not expecting anything	This book has a lot of potential, but I was disappointed overall with the  plot and the characters. The descriptions of landscapes made them real and  inviting, and the addition of watercolor paintings made it that much more  vivid. The offbeat coloquialisms made it interesting, in some repects, but  I still think this novel falls short of the people and places described  within its pages.<br />The plot seemed dull, and there wasn't any real  who-dunit story that weaves a reader into a web. I thought this was more  like an episode of &quot;Columbo&quot; where you already knew who did it,  and it was just a matter of catching the bad guys. The clues found by the  detectives seemed haphazard and that they just happened to bump into things  by chance. The dialogue seemed natural for a TV show, but not all bad.  <br />All in all, I'd like to see more of McGarrity as he hones his technique,  but it's decent for a first try.	2000-08-24
US	49251380	R1VBUTNUML074S	1568493207	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not Clueless, but Cluefew	I have only dabbled in reading a little &quot;postmodern&quot; literature, simply because I think most of it is over my head, and although I didn't  get everything there was meant to get (not by a long shot), I feel as  though I gained access to an interesting story about how ridiculous (or  not) many conspiracy theories can be.<br />There are sooooooooo many questions  I have, and sooooooo many references I didn't even know where really fact,  but in that way, I kind of understand Oedipa's thoughts and feelings  throughout the novel. I think that if I were more knowledgable, I wouldn't  have been able to read this the way I did. And like all the puns in Joyce's  &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot; I don't think it's as important to know  everything that the author puts forth, I just think if you get the initial  joke, it's enough. Maybe I'm wrong, but I read this for the story and not  for the history lesson.<br />It took me a bit to get used to Pynchon's writing  style, but after a few pages, I liked getting lost in the non-punctuated  tangents he went off in in his sentences. The laughs were genuine, and the  story almost surreal, as if the heat of San Narciso gets into the brain. I  enjoyed this book, and feel as though several rereads will help to bring  more into the light.	2000-08-21
US	49251380	R1DQG7XEYTTX6M	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Blind to one's own kin	This book is truly remarkable. Achebe writes with a simplicity and clarity  not found in many popular novels. He describes a life, while different on  the surface to western culture, contains many things for which all people  live: success, power, and community.<br />The thing I found to be so  interesting in this book, is that for the firat half there is not  &quot;time period&quot; to which many books adhere. This part of the novel  could take place last week or 450 years ago. It tells of a man's struggle  to not be like his father. He wants to have a prominent place in society,  and have things that will provide for his family. This is what the  &quot;rat race&quot; is all about.<br />Aside from Okonkwo's desire to  acheive, there are many other things that pertain to many lives today. The  youthful rebellion of Nyowe, the many meetings of council members, and  trials that hope to determine the outcomes of crimes and domestic disputes  without bias. The people of the Umuofia also have their own religion based  on faith. These, I believe, are the things that the missionaries and the  colonist government do not see, because they only see the surface  differences between themselves and the people of Umuofia.<br />And it is  because these people are not &quot;brutal savages&quot; that the colonists  are able to manipulate their way into the lives of the villagers. The  villagers respect the practicing of religion of one's  &quot;fatherland&quot;. This is a view that not only shows their tolerance,  but their open mindedness as well.<br />This is a great book that everyone  should read! It not only expands one's outlook, but is entertaining,  accessible, suspenseful, and surprising as well. Whether Achebe wrote in  this style in order to make the reader able to see everything he wanted to  say, or to show us who the real &quot;savages&quot; were, I don't know, but  I cannot help but feel a stranger to civilized world after reading it.	2000-08-20
US	49251380	R2IOIZSICTMQHK	0449911217	553771181	In the Beauty of the Lilies: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	From ordinary to extraordinary; yet a full circle	I didn't think anything was really going to happen to this family until I  got to the section about Esther. Then, things really began to roll. But, as  I look back into each of the four lives described within this novel, I  notice that whatever happened, it seemed sort of ordinary, believable, and  almost predictable.<br />I gave this book 4 stars, however, because the  situations are predictable, but the way each character deals with them is  not. Yes, Esther will make a name for herself, but will she maintain her  individuality? And how will Clark react to the events surrounding him? Will  Clarence stick it out in the ministry and spare his family the disgrace and  possibility of poverty? The sublties of language within this novel gave me  a real scope as to how people internally figure out what they will do. How  will they reveal their true selves and their own personalities?<br />One of  the more interesting things I felt throughout the book it seeing where each  descendant was sprinkled with traits from their ancestors and present  family. The story does complete a circle with the pseudo-faiths of Clarence  and Clark, but also for the twentieth century. It begins with the violence  of the strikers in the city, and ends with the violence set in nature. I'm  trying not to give too much away.<br />Otherwise, a good read, although a bit  roving at times, especially in between exchanges of dialogue, but it makes  you think of how much your family influenced you.	2000-08-18
US	49251380	R4EZUJID7Q3FW	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A tale worthy of the tabloids	This is the most shocking 19th century novel I have ever read! And even though if the story happened today, the principle characters would probably  end up on a talk show, I found it to be highly articulate as well as  entertaining!<br />I'm not sure why many people said this was a slow paced  book, I found it to be quite the little page turner! The only thing that  slowed me down at all was trying to decipher Joseph's speeches, but even  that adds a bit of comedy to the story.<br />I feel as though the narrative is  being told as one sits eagerly in a sewing circle awaiting juicy details  about their boss. I found that even though the double narrator makes me  wonder greatly about the reliablity of the story, I also think it adds a  great deal of the entertainment! I don't trust the condescending and  conceited Lockwood, nor the flighty, biased words of Nelly, but they are  what makes this story so great!<br />It's fabulous to see a book that still  holds a reader's interest today, (instead of just spouting off long  tangents of philosophical thought) to be in the canon of great literature!	2000-08-16
US	49251380	R2QE9SNTXCZYRV	0374525102	113803662	Annie John: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Only a &quot;picture&quot; is worth a thousand words?	I found this novella to be one of distiction. While a greatbattle rages inside the narrator against her mother and her homeland, the story is very peaceful. The flowing imagery in each desription of life in Antigua convey a sense of leisure and contentment.<br />Annie seems to live by visualization.  Her vivid dreams, as well as her everyday accounts are colorful and provocative. Even the words she hears from people, she sees as images, such as waves crashing on the beach. While she is obviously a bright child who wishes to get the most out of life, the reasons behind the hatred she develops against her life are not crystal clear. I don't think they have to be, just as provoked thought. Does she just need to stretch her legs because of her restless mind? Is it just the typical rebellion of an adolescent? Is she so afraid of death that she fears a connection to the things she loves?<br />The cultural background is intersting in that it combines those of European modernity and that of a rich &quot;West Indies&quot; heritage (ie the mixture of a medical doctor and that of the Obeah woman). The use of herbs and other things grown on the island appeal to a reader's senses of touch, taste, and smell combined with the vivid pictures within Annie's mind.<br />This book over all is a relaxing, short, drifting read that envelops the reader in a land many have not seen.	2000-08-09
US	49251380	R2IZ7R8HD9OHR7	0810112434	232828724	The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin (European Classics)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	&quot;Right Leg&quot;	I wasn't expecting this book to be as accessable as I found it. I know  next to nothing about life in Russia during the outbreak of WWII, and I  knew going in that this was a novel about a man in the Russian army. I  figured there'd be numerous names and references to people, places, and  policies I'd have to gloss over, and just hope I'd get an idea of the book.  I was wrong.<br />I was also wrong in thinking that it wouldn't be that funny.  I found it amusing and entertaining to see slapstick in a &quot;European  Classic&quot;. But, it wasn't stupid humor. It seems as though Voinovich  had a lot of thought behind it, twisting it around so it not only made the  reader laugh, but also tied into the plot.<br />The only thing I thought it  may have lacked was character development. It is a short novel, but I felt  as if I didn't really get to know Gladishev, Chonkin, or Nyura. Perhaps  given a few more pages, I could have identified with these characters a bit  more. But, since they are from a culture so foreign to myself, perhaps it  would have taken a lot more for me to identify with the characters. Perhaps  it's my own sheltered way of life that inhibited a stronger connection with  this novel.<br />If anything, this book is a fabulous introduction into  Russian culture at the beginning of WWII. Being that it is a fiction/comedy  however, there may not be a lot of accuracy in its content, but it at least  leaves one with a sense of lifestyle to which these characters live.	2000-08-08
US	49251380	R1EK8KUBZUHTA	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Concrete Density	I really like this book. I may not agree with all of the ideals described  within its pages, but as far as keeping me interested, it is one of the  most challenging, yet eloquent books I've ever read.<br />I feel, though, as  if I missed a lot of what the author was trying to say. I felt as though  she repeated herself with slots of continuous dialogue that made me feel as  if I should fall to the ground and cry &quot;OK! I submit!&quot; But,  perhaps I missed something.<br />I love all the characters except for  Dominique. I wasn't quite sure of her motives and actions. She talked a lot  about how she wanted to suffer, but she didn't really suffer. Trying to  ruin Roark made her happy, and being with Roark made her happy. She had a  happy second marriage, but broke it off and tried to &quot;sacrifice&quot;  herself for other reasons. Her actions would seem only to hurt somone else,  and barely give her a scratch. But, on the other hand, she was, I suppose,  living like a true egotist. But, then again, she was only happy through a  few other people. I don't know. I'm just confused.<br />Ellsworth Toohey was  my favorite. They way he manipulated people was often funny and frightening  at the same time. The fact that he always &quot;had a sense of humor&quot;  showed how easy it was for him to needle into anyone's life.<br />All in all,  I think the book is worth reading again. I still feel as though I don't  have a grasp on everything, just maybe a jist. I think I was trying too  hard when I read this. I don't know, perhaps I'm one of those people who  would have found &quot;The Gallant Gallstone&quot; a good book.	2000-08-08
US	49251380	R3V8WUWQ1WZMU2	0380699893	560694230	Hooples on the Highway	Books	4	5	5	N	N	It's like having the best vacation of your life over again	I recently pulled this book off my shelf after many years. I remembered it was one of my favorites from when I was little, but I couldn't really  remember why. So, while I was cooking dinner one night, I read it again. It  didn't take long to remember why I loved it.<br />It's the story of a family  driving from New York to Philadelphia for a summer vacation. There's mom  and dad, Alvin, Annie and her stuffed friend &quot;Lambie&quot;. Alvin, a  boy who's probably about 9 or 10, is the main character. He has a wild  imagination that amazes you and makes you laugh. For example, he talks, as  the family drives past some cows in a pasture, about how brown cows give us  chocolate milk, black cows give us licorice flavored milk, and the white  cows, who give us white milk, have to stay in the barn during the day, so  they don't get sunburned--or else they'd give us strawberry flavored  milk!<br />But, this isn't just a boring car ride about the things the Hooples  see on the side of the road, the family has many unplanned adventures. From  the daring rescue of Lambie to the tour of the inside of a semi-truck,  Hooples on the Highway is a great book that will activate the imagination  of any child, and light up their parents' eyes as well.	2000-08-07
