US	49260053	RTK9XBIESW3ZS	1577314611	451984176	The Tara Box: Rituals for Protection and Healing from the Female Buddha	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Wonderful introduction to Tara	This boxed set is a perfect gift for friends (or yourself!) interested in Buddhist practice, especially for beginners. It concerns itself with Tara, a female buddha particularly associated with protection, healing, and long life. Along with Avalokiteshvara, the Buddha of Compassion, Tara is the favorite buddha of Tibetans, and many if not most Tibetan Buddhists do her practice on a daily basis. <br /> <br />The boxed set comes with a small shrine-like enclosure (the box itself), a white statue of Tara, and a book explaining how to do the meditations associated with Tara. The box and statue are very nice to put on your shrine, or someplace special, but the real treasure is the book, which contains excellent explanations about Tara and how to receive benefits from doing Tara practice, written in a style that will be easily accessible to people who know little or nothing about Buddhism, but also with a level of detail that will please students already familiar with basic Buddhist practice. <br /> <br />The book was written by Gehlek Rinpoche, an incarnate lama (teacher), who himself specializes in Tara practice and received very special instructions on the practice from senior teachers in Tibet. Gehlek Rinpoche has a wonderful sense of humor, and is a kind and warm-hearted man. He is also an extraordinary practitioner and teacher. I had the good fortune to experience a Tara meditation with him once, a year ago, and it was a remarkable experience. He certainly embodies everything he writes about. <br /> <br />The book describes who Tara is, why the practice is beneficial, how anyone (even non-Buddhists or members of other religions) can do this practice and benefit from it, etc. It then contains a short text for th meditation itself, the mantra of Tara (and explanation), and how to cleanse the body of oneself and others using meditations on the five elements (earth, water, etc.). It also contains the text of the beautiful prayer of supplication called \\"Praise to the 21Taras\\". <br /> <br />I would strongly recommend this boxed set!	2005-05-13
US	49260053	RRRCZENXDM3J3	0861711823	946895964	Practicing Wisdom: The Perfection of Shantideva's Bodhisattva Way	Books	5	56	57	N	Y	Excellent introduction to Emptiness	This book is truly remarkable, even among the excellent books written by His Holiness. It is a transcript of teachings he gave in the early 90s on the 9th chapter of Shantideva's classic \\"Guide to the Bodhisattva Way of Life\\" (Bodhisattvacaryavatara). The 9th chapter is a very difficult chapter to read, because it deals with the understanding of ultimate reality according to the Madhyamika (Middle Way) tradition. However, this is a most important topic, since liberation can only come from realization of emptiness. Therefore, commentaries are essential.<br /><br />His Holiness already published some of his talks on the 9th chapter as a small yellow book called \\"Transcendent Wisdom\\". This current book is perhaps much better for a general audience, though, because it is so clearly written and ably translated by Geshe Thubten Jinpa. It is so clear, that even difficult subjects appear comprehensible. Also, each chapter ends with a brief meditation on the preceding topic. That really helps one to ground one's knowledge and achieve insights.<br /><br />I have already recommended this book to several other people, and have heard very positive responses. If you are interested in this topic, or Shantideva's text, this book is a very good choice.<br /><br />By the way, the translation of choice for Shantideva's book is the one by the Padmakara translation group, published by Shambhala. That is the one used in this book. However, even if you haven't read Shantideva's work, or don't have it, the full text of chapter 9 is given here, and therefore this book can stand alone as well.	2005-01-17
US	49260053	R13C6PA9TXJKRH	0861713893	692121082	Becoming Vajrasattva: The Tantric Path of Purification	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Important and Inspiring Book for Vajrayanists	Although not a household name among American Buddhists, Lama Yeshe should really go down in history as one of the chief teachers responsible for transmitting Buddhism to the West. He managed to find a voice for this ancient tradition of Tibetan Buddhism that makes it accessible, inspiring, and transformational to contemporary Westerners. This is evident in the several excellent volumes that have been put forth by his student, Nick Ribush, and Wisdom Publications, including this book on Vajrasattva practice. <br /> <br />Purification practice is essential for students of Tibetan Buddhism, and one of the most important tantric practices for this is that of Vajrasattva. This book contains excellent teachings on this very important practice. (It will probably not be very useful to those who have not received empowerment into this practice, or who are not practicising tantra). The emphasis of the book is actually on Heruka Vajrasattva, but I believe it can be of benefit to anyone practising Vajrasattva. <br /> <br />Readers who enjoy this book should also pick up a copy of Lama Yeshe's \\"Introduction to Tantra\\", which is phenomenal.	2004-11-19
US	49260053	RYTB5VB6MUQXL	0861713435	564959563	Becoming the Compassion Buddha: Tantric Mahamudra for Everyday Life	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	Commentary on Avalokiteshvara Guru Yoga Practice	This teaching, which comes from the (late) marvelous Lama Yeshe, is for serious practitioners of Tibetan Buddhism, specifically those who have received the Avalokiteshvara (Buddha of Compassion) empowerment or are interested in this practice. It is a teaching Lama Yeshe gives on a particular Avalokiteshvara practice combined with guru yoga, a practice composed by HH the XIV Dalai Lama when he was 19 years old at the request of one of his students. As such this practice and text is especially appropriate for those with a connection to Avalokiteshvara, HH the Dalai Lama, Lama Yeshe, or all of the above! <br /> <br />The book begins with a short introduction to Lam Rim (the stages of the path to enlightenment), and then gets into the commentary, and includes the actual meditations. <br /> <br />I am a big fan of Lama Yeshe and his books. I think they are superb. This book may be more suitable for medium-level students, as it assumes some familiarity with basic practices and concepts. For total beginners, a better bet might be Lama Yeshe's \\"Introduction to Tantra\\", a fabulous book that can be read by anyone. Advanced level students should also check out Lama Yeshe's on tummo practice (\\"Bliss of Inner Fire\\" I believe it's called). <br />	2004-10-01
US	49260053	R2MNT6BXO12ABB	8433914294	869839209	Los Restos del Dia (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Spanish version of &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;	This is a Spanish translation of the major work by Kazuo Ishiguro, &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;, which was set to film starring Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson. Ishiguro is a British writer of Japanese descent, and writes a stunning tale of a butler of a large manor home in England, around the time of World War II. The prose is brilliant, the pathos sublime. If you enjoy good writing, stories about England in the &quot;good ole days&quot; and slowly unwinding tragedies, this story is for you. I have recommended it to many friends, and none has been disappointed so far.	2004-07-25
US	49260053	RYSQVGAD1100	3905497107	528576368	Treasury of Dharma	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Treasure Trove	This book is beautiful and invaluable in many ways. First of all, it contains all the essentials of Mahayana philosophy and practice in one small, easy to read volume. These are presented in a very clear style, in a very systematic way, that makes for clear reading and also easy reference later on. Also, the binding is excellent, there is a nice yellow cloth bookmark string; thus it is attractive and pleasant to read. <br /> <br />There are many books on dharma out there, so how would you know if this is right for you? Well, first off, it is aimed more at those who are already quite interested in practising dharma. In that sense, it is not a total introduction to Buddhism or anything like that for complete newcomers. It is more aimed at those who have some understanding, but not a very comprehensive one, and who are looking for a way to gain a more comprehensive foundation for their studies and practice. <br /> <br />Thus, some of its most useful sections are a very thorough explanation of attaining shamatha, including all 9 stages that one passes through (with an explanation of the elephant herding picture) -- this will be very beneficial for those trying to achieve mental quiescence, a prerequisite for higher realizations; a good explanation of the 12 links of dependent origination (with corresponding wheel of life diagram); explanations of the various categorizations of mental factors; etc. <br /> <br />So, in terms of a systematic presentation of the foundational material, this is a very good introduction -- one of the best.	2004-07-25
US	49260053	R2FCLW5FZXRWVT	0861711262	409773786	Liberation in the Palm of Your Hand: A Concise Discourse on the Path to Enlightenment (Spiritual Classics)	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	Incredible Treasure Trove of Teachings	This book intimidated me at first -- it's so large! And such a long teaching just on Lam Rim? However, the instant I started reading it, I was hooked in, and I've been at it non-stop ever since. I can safely say that no other book has provided me with as many eye-opening realizations as this one. Every few pages strikes a chord in me and helps me to understand on a deeper level the many aspects and facets of Lam Rim. <br />  <br /> What is Lam Rim? It is &quot;Stages of the Path&quot; -- one of the central kinds of teachings in Tibetan Buddhism. In Buddhism, the goal is enlightenment -- to free oneself from suffering, and to help others free themselves as well. Yet the teachings of the Buddha are so voluminous and complex, that it is difficult for a beginning student to know where to start, what to study, what to practice, in what order, etc. For this reason, the great Indian master Atisha (10th-11th c.AD) composed the first Lam Rim text, which presented the entire path to Buddhahood, leaving nothing out, in a clear way, and in the correct order for practice. Since then, Lam Rim teachings have been central for most Tibetan schools of Buddhism. This systematic and clear approach is not found in most other schools of Buddhism. <br />  <br /> In Lam Rim, one develops realizations along 3 major stages: Small Scope, Medium Scope, and Great Scope. In the first two, one develops a strong wish to free oneself from present and future sufferings, to achieve a state of total liberation and peace. In the third, one expands this through compassion to wish that all sentient beings may be in this liberated state. <br />  <br /> Each stage involves contemplating and thinking about a number of different aspects of life and human experience. As one does so, one is almost guaranteed to start to see things more clearly. This will lead to a stronger wish for liberation, a more powerful compassion, and greater wisdom into the nature of reality. Thus, Lam Rim is really essential, especially for those who intend to practice Tantra, since it is like the base and foundation. <br />  <br /> While there are many texts of Lam Rim, Pabongka Rinpoche's teaching is so direct, so clear, and filled with so many brilliant examples and stories, that it can be ranked among the best. In the Gelukpa school especially, it has become a classic that every student should read at least once. I hope it will benefit you greatly!	2004-07-25
US	49260053	R2MAJR70L3OC4H	0861711955	480935872	Ultimate Healing: The Power of Compassion	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Powerful book of healing stories, practices and attitudes	This lovely book was written by Lama Zopa Rinpoche, the heart disciple of Lama Yeshe. Those who are familiar with Tibetan Buddhism will know of Lama Yeshe as a truly remarkable man, one of the first lamas to teach Buddhism to Western students, and founder of FPMT, an excellent organization for the promotion of Mahayana Buddhism to bring health and happiness to people around the world. Lama Yeshe's books are full of love, compassion and wisdom, and Lama Zopa Rinpoche follows in his teacher's footsteps with this remarkable volume. <br />  <br /> The books title is &quot;Ultimate Healing&quot;, and I suppose this title is very suitable, because while the book concentrates on healing of the body, and includes remarkable cases of individuals being healed from cancer, AIDS, and other illnesses and maladies, Lama Zopa Rinpoche places this all within the broader context of healing the spirit/mind. As even Western science is proving now to be true, the mind is incredibly powerful in bringing about healing. Yet we must understand by the word &quot;mind&quot; something much larger than is usually meant in English -- in Buddhism the &quot;mind&quot; is &quot;that which experiences&quot;. In other words, our entire subjectivity. Since everything we experience is done so through this mind/subjectivity, learning to control it effectively means learning to control our whole experience. That would mean being able to effect a state of lasting happiness, with a complete cessation of suffering. Now, that's real ultimate healing!! <br />  <br /> Along with inspiring stories, Lama Zopa Rinpoche presents the effective methods that enable one to bring about this ultimate healing. Specifically, there is a long chapter on the Medicine Buddha practice -- a lovely practice for healing and well-being that can be used for oneself or others. It involves some visualization and mantra recitation. Again, such techniques may seem strange to those unfamiliar with Eastern religions, but they have beenproved effective in medical contexts. Even if the illness is not totally removed (and it may be), a person's degree of suffering can certainly be lessened. There are additional chapters on blessing water, the benefits of creating good karma by acts of kindness (such as freeing animals who are about to be killed), how to deal with depression, etc. <br />  <br /> Even among the many great books on healing and Buddhism out there, this one is truly a gem, and I am sure it will bring great benefit to many people who read it. Advanced students of Buddhism and those who know nothing about Buddhism or the healing arts -- all can gain and be inspired by this treasure trove.  <br />  <br /> May you be healthy, and bring all those you love to a state of perfect health and happiness as well!	2004-07-25
US	49260053	R35WDRGEG311FB	0861711629	107012670	Introduction to Tantra : The Transformation of Desire	Books	5	44	51	N	Y	Comforting and Informative for the Beginner	Tantra is a very complex and difficult subject to understand, and this book may be one the best short introductions to the theory and practice of tantra. Note that it is written for practitioners, not scholars, as is common with books by Lama Yeshe. Not that a scholar might not be quite interested in what Lama Yeshe has to say.    Although there are many books on tantra and Tibetan Buddhism, Lama Yeshe's stand out as unique due to his ability to speak in a language easily accessible to Westerners. He is so direct and has such a good sense of humor that very few people who are genuinely interested will not find special gems in this book. Although compiled from many of Lama Yeshe's oral teachings by his students, it reads as a seemless whole. They have done a brilliant job in this respect.    If you have just begun tantric practice, or even if you are practicing anuttarayoga tantra, this book could be very beneficial to you. Lama Yeshe goes through the essential aspects of tantra, such as dissolution, meditation on emptiness, arising as the deity, etc., explaining the purpose and feel of each of these parts. This is something that is often not explained, at least not as clearly as here, so I think this is valuable information for those practicing these kinds of meditations.    For those interested in the transformations that tantric meditation can bring about, \\"The Psychology of Buddhist Tantra\\" might also be interesting, by Rob Preece.	2004-07-23
US	49260053	R2VU3B8OBDXRJ9	0861714520	730573677	Ornament of Stainless Light: An Exposition of the Kalachakra Tantra (Library of Tibetan Classics)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Excellent treasure-trove for practitioners	This beautiful volume, the first in a much-anticipated series, presents one of the most important works on the Kalachakra tantra, Khedrup Norsang Gyatso's commentary on &quot;Stainless Light&quot;, itself the most important commentary on the Kalachakra tantra.<br />The book is beautifully bound with a smooth matte plastic cover, cloth string bookmark, and is a joy to read. The translation by Gavin Kilty is easy to read, and the writing itself by Kedrup Norsang Gyatso is very accessible for such a complex and high-level practice. This makes the reading of it not only very informative, but also inspirational.<br />There is so much information in this book, much of which is not available elsewhere in English translation to my knowledge, that this book will be of tremendous value, I am sure, to Kalachakra practitioners.<br />We eagerly await the following volumes in this series (a series run by a not-for-profit organisation and overseen by Geshe Thubten Jinpa, chief translator and interpreter for HH the Dalai Lama), which should be equally wonderful!	2004-07-08
US	49260053	R1XRSLUXDDJ3CM	0861711521	764894043	Transcending Time: An Explanation of the Kalachakra Six-Session Guruyoga	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Essential for Kalachakra Practitioners	I agree that this is indeed the most important practice manual for Kalachakra practitioners currently available that I have come across, particularly for those practising the 6-session Kalachakra Guru-yoga text prepared by HH the Dalai Lama and his senior tutor, the great Ling Rinpoche. The book is a long, detailed teaching on this guru-yoga practice, explaining many of the subtle points that would be missed just from reading the text without instruction. It is wonderfully informative and inspiring. However, it is only for those who have received the Kalachakra empowerment.	2004-07-08
US	49260053	R2YQ2CFWGS8P2U	1570629994	998085100	The Sun of Wisdom: Teachings on the Noble Nagarjuna's Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way	Books	5	45	47	N	Y	Excellent, Accessible and Inspiring Intro to Emptiness	Perhaps the most fundamental concept in Mahayana Buddhism is 'emptiness', and it was expounded by the 2nd century Indian saint and philosopher Nagarjuna. Unfortunately for most, Nagarjuna's writings, though essential, are very difficult for a beginner. Since it is an understanding (and then direct perception) of emptiness which liberates one from suffering, it is crucial that Nagarjuna's writings be explained by a qualified teacher, one who has both studied extensively, and put the teachings into practice, achieving realizations him/herself.<br />This is the place of this excellent little book. In each very short and readable chapter, Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso takes on one chapter from Nagarjuna's most important work, &quot;Mulamadhyamakakarika&quot; (Root Stanzas on the Middle Way). He picks out individual stanzas from the chapter -- just a few -- and explains them in simple, easy to understand English.<br />Of course, while the English is easy to understand, the teachings are profound -- most fundamentally, that nothing, not one single thing, exists in a &quot;real&quot; or &quot;inherent&quot; or &quot;independent&quot; way.<br />Yet having negated the possibility of inherent existence (often called absolutism or essentialism), one must also avoid the other extreme of nihilism. It is not that there is just nothing at all. Appearances do arise, and we can touch, see, hear, think, taste and smell things. Nevertheless, this is not enough to prove real existence. All phenomenal appearances are like a dream, or a moon reflected on water. As the Diamond Sutra states, &quot;One who perceives the illusory nature of things, recognizes the Tathagatha (Buddha).&quot;<br />With this kind of logic (but in a much more eloquent way, befitting the Khenpo's great experience and wisdom), the fundamental doctrine of emptiness is explained. Moreover, emptiness and Madhyamaka philosophy are related to the practice of Mahamudra (the Great Seal) and the writings of Milarepa (one of the greatest Tibetan yogis, who is recognized by all Tibetans to have achieved buddhahood in one lifetime). So one is getting a lot in this small package.<br />These writings will most likely give you a lot to think about, and must be contemplated and meditated on. After that, one might turn to some of the original texts, such as Nagarjuna's, or else Chandrakirti's &quot;Introduction to the Middle Way&quot;, which is an entry into Nagarjuna.<br />Good luck!greatest Tibetan yogis, who is recognized by all Tibetans to have achieved buddhahood in one lifetime). So one is getting a lot in this small package.<br />These writings will most likely give you a lot to think about, and must be contemplated and meditated on. After that, one might turn to some of the original texts, such as Nagarjuna's, or else Chandrakirti's &quot;Introduction to the Middle Way&quot;, which is an entry into Nagarjuna.<br />Good luck!	2004-05-16
US	49260053	R3QNG5S7MZER3A	0226803392	55262532	Systematic Theology, vol. 3: Life and the Spirit: History and the Kingdom of God	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Classic in 20th c. Protestant Theology	Paul Tillich's ~Systematic Theology~ is one of the most important theological works of the 20th century, and the theological system par excellence of liberal Protestant Christianity. In his day, Tillich was held in high esteem not only among theologians, but by experts in many different fields for his incredible breadth of knowledge, his insight into culture, and his humanity.<br />'Liberal Protestantism' sought to reconcile the gospel and the Christian faith with contemporary cultural ideas, rather then set the two up against each other. Religion is, for Tillich, the best of culture. (An alternative view, for example, is that of Karl Barth, who saw the gospel as fundamentally a critique of culture - as the Word speaking from outside ~to~ the world, not within the world). So, for Tillich, there should be signs of God everywhere, not just in Christianity, and religion and culture and closely connected.<br />God, for Tillich, is not therefore the anthropomorphized God of the Old Testament, who has a personality and creates and destroys and judges in an almost arbitrary fashion. Instead, Tillich sees God as 'the ground of being'. God is the very fundament on which rests everything that is. God is the Abyss.<br />The problem with man, for Tillich, is his 'finitude'. Man's life is finite, his body makes him finite, his capacities are finite, yet he craves to transcend these, to be unlimited, to be God. This is impossible; rather one should accept one's finitude courageously. This is what Jesus did singularly and perfectly - he never sinned, because he always accepted the finite nature of his being; he faced death courageously. Tillich's christology is therefore a 'spirit christology' (Jesus was led by the spirit) rather than a 'logos christology' (Jesus was God incarnate, the Word made flesh).<br />The last important thing is that Tillich makes use of his famous 'theory of correlation'. This is how the 3 volumes of his ~Systematic Theology~ are set up. According to thistheory, things in culture are correlated with the theology; theology provides the 'answers' to the 'questions' posed by culture. So his five sections (divided among the 3 volumes) are called: 'Reason and Revelation', 'Being and God', 'Existence and the Christ', 'Life and the Spirit', 'History and the Kingdom of God'.<br />Tillich's writing is for the most part easy enough to read for the layperson - just don't get bothered by particular tricky bits. I would recommend it to anyone interested in theology; it has influenced a generation of theologians.	2004-04-17
US	49260053	RIQ416T8PNG6G	0861713184	251046383	Essence of the Heart Sutra: The Dalai Lama's Heart of Wisdom Teachings	Books	5	56	58	N	Y	Fantastic Commentary on This Sutra and More	Hmmm, a remarkable book by a remarkable man on a remarkable sutra! The Heart Sutra is the essence of the Perfection of Wisdom class of sutras, which represent the &quot;Second Turning of the Wheel of Dharma&quot;. That is to say, the second main set of teachings by the Buddha. The First Turning was on the Four Noble Truths. The Third Turning was on Buddha Nature. But the Second Turning was on the nature of reality, emptiness -- in other words, the important stuff!<br />This is a hard literature, crystalized in the Heart Sutra, which is only a few pages but very dense (versions of it are available on-line). Here the Dalai Lama provides an excellent commentary on this difficult text by placing it within its entire Buddhist context. The result is that one is led step by step to the deepest understanding of this sutra, which is really the most profound element of the Buddha's teaching. Remarkably, then, this book can be grasped by the beginning student as well as much more experienced students. A crucial element in Buddhism is familiarization: going back over something again and again until it is understood very deeply, and then realized personally through meditation. So such approaches, that begin from the basics and move up to very profound topics, should not be seen as needless repetition, but as opportunities to really internalize the teachings.<br />The style of His Holiness's language is always conversational, easy to read, and humorous. This is no exception. The book is also beautiful and a pleasure to read. Most important, it is a crucial teaching that can help transform our lives.	2004-04-16
US	49260053	R3S5HU5UKCP076	0835607003	410523047	Mystical Verses of a Mad Dalai Lama	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Inspiring and Amusing	The 2nd Dalai Lama is one of the most interesting figures in this impressive lineage of scholars, yogis, poets and saints. Glenn Mullin has devoted much of his life to the works and lives of these great men (or are they the same man?) and provides us with a valuable volume here. <br />The 2nd is called &quot;Mad Dalai Lama&quot; because he is one of those &quot;crazy yogis&quot; whose enlightenment freed them from the bonds of conventionality. This liberation is evident in his poetry, which is translated here. It is wild, fun, irreverent, and yet profound and beautiful and genuine. The translations of the poetry retain this character beautifully, and each is also accompanied by a short commentary (very helpful!).<br />This is an attractive book, and would make a nice gift, even for people who are not Buddhists or don't know much about Buddhism, since the poems are accessible and interesting, and the book is well written.	2004-04-16
US	49260053	R7MAJW63FUQAI	0937938955	193359404	The Practice of Kalachakra	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Very helpful resource for practitioners	For those who are preparing to take, or have taken, the Kalachakra initiation, this is a very valuable book and resource. Glenn Mullin, one of the world's leading Tibetologists, who specializes in the works of the Dalai Lamas, here provides an important contribution by translating very important texts on Kalachakra from the Tibetan tradition. <br />We find here texts ranging from the history of Tibetan Buddhism: the First Panchen Lama, the Fifth Dalai Lama, the present XIV Dalai Lama, etc., all writing on Kalachakra. Thus what we have is a compilation of important works throughout Buddhist history on this tantra -- all for the benefit of practitioners -- rendered in good English.<br />Mr. Mullin also provides an important introduction (the first half of the book), in which he explains the four classes of tantra, the Shambhala connection, the history of Kalachakra, etc. This section is very useful.<br />I would suggest supplementing this book with others -- the book on Kalachakra by HH the Dalai Lama and Jeffrey Hopkins is excellent. Mr Mullin also recommends his own &quot;The Six Yogas of Naropa&quot; for those preparing for or recently having taken Highest Yoga Tantra initiations.	2004-04-16
US	49260053	RFWDDQ8PL18AI	0861711513	571133048	Kalachakra Tantra: Rite of Initiation	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	The Best Book on Kalachakra?	This book is an excellent resource and can be highly recommended to those preparing to take a Kalachakra initiation, such as the upcoming one in Toronto, April-May 2004. HH the Dalai Lama gives one or two Kalachakra initiations every year, so this book should be very valuable in future as well.<br />The book is comprised of two parts: an introduction by Jeffrey Hopkins (first 150 pages) and the commentary/teaching of the Dalai Lama throughout the actual initation (the rest of the book), plus a few texts on 6-session guruyoga and a sadhana at the end.<br />The introduction is excellent, explaining the sutra and tantra path, with a wonderful chapter on emptiness that is very clear and concise, and one of the best explications I have seen! This section alone is worth the price of the book. It explains the Kalachakra mandala (and there are some good color glossy photos inside) with all the deities as well.<br />The second section is even more incredible, as this is the actual text of what HH the Dalai Lama explained throughout the actual initiation. This would be very valuable for those preparing for such an initiation, or perhaps wanting to go back to understand it more deeply.<br />Combined, these two sections make this book invaluable. It is also beautifully made, with a great glossy cover, very durable, and glossy pages that are nice to read. Treasure it!<br />Also recommended: Glenn Mullin's &quot;The Practice of Kalachakra&quot;, Alexander Berzin's book on Kalachakra, and &quot;Highest Yoga Tantra&quot; by Daniel Cozort.	2004-04-16
US	49260053	R3SEW3VU85TCKC	1559391219	651901887	Guru Yoga: According to the Preliminary Practice of Longchen Nyingtik	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Helpful book for practitioners	This book has been compiled by Matthieu Ricard. A Frenchman, Ricard got his PhD in molecular biology and pursued a career in scientific research before abandoning that life to go to Asia to study Tibetan Buddhism with some of the great lamas there. He did all this much to the surprise of his father, an eminent French intellectual, atheist and philosopher Jean-Francois Revel. You can read their recent dialogue, many decades after Ricard left, in the fascinating book &quot;The Monk and the Philosopher.&quot; <br />One of Ricard's main teachers was the great Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, pictured on the cover of this book. He is considered an unsurpassed master of Tibetan Buddhism, a very senior lineage holder in the Nyingma school, and a teacher of many other great lamas, including H.H. the Dalai Lama. Particularly, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche was a master of Dzogchen.<br />In this very slim yet illuminating volume, Khyentse Rincpoche teaches on one of the most essential practices in Tibetan Buddhism, guru yoga. This is a meditation in which one fuses one's mind with the mind of one's guru. It is an important part of guru devotion, a practice done daily by most serious Tibetan Buddhist practitioners, and one that is common to all of the four schools.<br />That being said, not many teachings are available in published format on this very important practice. Guru yoga is of course mentioned in every introductory text to Tibetan Buddhism, and every more advanced book notes that one must practice guru yoga as a preliminary to any higher level practices (tantras, mahamudra, dzogchen, etc.) So this is therefore a very valuable book for practitioners. Transcribed from oral teachings, it very concisely points out the essence of this practice, gives advice, and points out the implications for one's whole life.<br />Because it is heavily focused on the actual practice, this book is not recommended for anyone who does not already engage in guru yoga. Nor should it be taken as a &quot;how-to&quot; manual on guru yoga. It seems to me that guru yoga should not be practiced unless one has been taught and empowered by a lama in person.<br />This book is especially suited for Nyingmapas, as the sadhana discussed focuses on Padmasambhava. That being said, it is clear that practitioners from all four schools have much to gain from reading and studying it.	2004-03-15
US	49260053	RHP4F51SG5SI5	039332429X	887867005	The Norton Anthology of Modern and Contemporary Poetry	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Well-crafted anthology and great value (updated review)	The Norton anthology of Modern Poetry has now been updated and re-edited by Jahan Ramazani, and to excellent effect. The anthology now is split into two volumes, Modern and Contemporary (which here means poets who came of age slightly before or after WWII). Not only has the anthology been expanded, but importantly a poetics section has been added (the last 100+ pages of each volume), which includes Eliot's &quot;Tradition and the Individual Talent&quot; and Mina Loy's &quot;Feminist Manifesto&quot;, parts of Pound's &quot;Blast&quot;, and other important works. This is a smart move, and adds much to the anthology's usefulness.<br />The Modern section begins with &quot;precursors&quot;: Walt Whitman, Emily Dickinson, Thomas Hardy, G. M. Hopkins. It is nice to see these giants featured prominently; it adds much to the value of the set, and the collection of their works is broad and satisfying. The section then moves on to AE Housman, Yeats, etc. up to Theodore Roethke, Spender and Keith Douglas. The Contemporary volume (slightly thicker, though both are over 1000 pages) takes off from there and includes experimental poets and those of more diversified backgrounds, such as Michael Palmer, Li-Young Lee, and Agha Shahid Ali.<br />Introductory sections to both volumes provide broad overviews of poetic movements (Objectivist, Imagist, etc). While written in a very clear style that will not scare off beginners, these are actually well-researched and thought-through overviews that will be useful to serious students of poetry as well.<br />The packaging is, in my opinion, attractive and sleek: two well designed volumes housed in a cardboard case. The paper is a bit thin and smooth (I suppose it's hard to fit 1000 pages into such relatively slim volumes), but has actually proved most durable. The typeface is compact but fully clear and legible - not at all squished together. In short, the design is very pleasing, such that I find these volumes a pleasure to read and consult whenever I need to.<br />A year since purchasing this two-volume set, I still believe this is the best anthology of modern and contemporary English-language poetry currently on the market, and an excellent value despite its hefty price tag. I'm sure many will find disappointments here and questionable decisions - but that holds true for almost any anthology. More people will find something to celebrate here - a remarkable selection of two centuries of great poetry in the English language.<br />A note for teachers: It occurs to me that this volume could be well-suitable for a serious college-level course on poetry (or a very advanced high school course). For those looking for a teaching volume that includes drama and fiction sections, consider Kennedy and Goia's \\"Literature: An Introduction to Fiction, Poetry and Drama.\\"whenever I need to.<br />A year since purchasing this two-volume set, I still believe this is the best anthology of modern and contemporary English-language poetry currently on the market, and an excellent value despite its hefty price tag. I'm sure many will find disappointments here and questionable decisions - but that holds true for almost any anthology. More people will find something to celebrate here - a remarkable selection of two centuries of great poetry in the English language.<br />A note for teachers: It occurs to me that this volume could be well-suitable for a serious college-level course on poetry (or a very advanced high school course). For those looking for a teaching volume that includes drama and fiction sections, consider Kennedy and Goia's \\"Literature: An Introduction to Fiction, Poetry and Drama.\\"	2004-03-15
US	49260053	R4PWH544BOKOQ	0520235886	92090521	Sensory Biographies: Lives and Deaths among Nepal's Yolmo Buddhists	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Important ethnographic study	Robert Desjarlais is considered one of the most interesting psychological anthropologists of his generation. In the past, he has written on shamanistic practices and developed interesting ethnographic and methodological theories (with particular interest in phenomenology). Recently, he has been confident enough to discount some of his past approaches (the idea that one can fully 'enter into' a role in a foreign culture, and then inhabit that role and analyze the experiences one has as if they are the same as those people one is studying), and has therefore been enabled to move onto breaking new ground in anthropological theory. Others could learn from his example.<br />In this current work -- beautifully designed and well presented, and a pleasure to read given Desjarlais's style at writing -- he looks at a few select individuals among Nepal's Yolmo Buddhist community. He delves deeply into their lives, rather than providing a more general study of the community and culture (although this necessary context is of course provided).<br />Although this book will have a somewhat restricted audience, and is not a general work, it should be most interesting to pscyhological anthropologists, ethnographers in general, and those interested in the region and in Tibetan and Nepalese Buddhism.	2004-03-15
US	49260053	R3UGL6FLT4ZWZF	1888375337	636366646	Opening the Heart of the Cosmos: Insights on the Lotus Sutra	Books	5	72	72	N	Y	Excellent, easy to read commentary on important sutra	In this book, Nhat Hanh turns his eye towards the Lotus Sutra, one of the most important sutras for Mahayana Buddhists. Despite its importance, the Lotus Sutra is very difficult to read straight-out, although good translations exist (see Hurvitz and the recent edition \\"The Threefold Lotus Sutra\\" put out by Kosei). Just diving into a translation may leave you feeling a bit confused, and some early commentaries are just as inaccessible to beginners. <br />Hence the value of this book. Placing the Lotus sutra in its historical context (around the time when Mahayana Buddhism was just emerging, and had to distinguish itself from non-Mahayana schools, which it terms \\"Hinayana\\" or \\"Lesser Vehicle\\"), Nhat Hanh illuminates why this sutra is so important and revelational. In short, this is the sutra in which it was firmly proclaimed that _everyone_ could become a fully enlightened buddha. <br />Previously, the primary goal of early Buddhism had been to become a saint (\\"arhat\\"), liberated from samsara, with the joy of nirvana, but not an actual buddha oneself. Moreover, this path was restricted to renunciant monks, and not open to everyone. In this sutra, the Buddha proclaims that he taught this as a skillful means, because if he had said right away that people could attain buddhahood, no one would believe it. Now, however, the time being right, and people having understood the basics of the Four Noble Truths, etc., he could give this profound teaching. All the teachings and vehicles (Sravakayana, Pratyekabuddhayana, Bodhisattvayana, etc.) point to the one single vehicle: the buddhayana, the path to full buddhahood for all sentinent beings.<br />Because the language of the sutra itself is quite difficult and full of very elaborate imagery that can confuse or mystify the reader, the commentary provided in this book by Nhat Hanh is essential to clarifying the points and getting at the essence of what the sutra is saying. He explains how one can read the sutra along two dimensions -- the historical dimension, and the ultimate dimension. If one does not read it in such a way, and takes everything as literal (historical), it will result in a whole lot of confusion.<br />So, this book is for students of Buddhism who are interested in reading some actual sutras, but who are not so intellectually hard-core that they feel they are \\"above\\" reading this commetnary by a monk who seems, on the surface, very simple and non-academic. (Actually, he is a great scholar himself -- see \\"The Heart of the Buddha's Understanding\\" for the best introduction to Mahayana Buddhism around). Note that this book does _not_ contain the actual text of the Lotus Sutra, which is very long. Find one of the translations (noted above) and read it along with this commentary, and you will find it very beneficial, I am sure!<br />Enjoy.	2004-03-15
US	49260053	R1CN2S4VGNDP4Y	0811205703	561072144	The Asian Journal of Thomas Merton (New Directions Books)	Books	5	61	62	N	Y	Fascinating journal of Christian monk encountering the East	This book is a must-read for fans of Merton, and for anyone interested in encounters between Western Christianity and Eastern religions (particularly Hinduism and Buddhism).<br />Merton achieved incredible realizations and great insight into Buddhism despite the fact that he lived most of his life as a monk and hermit isolated at Gethsemani Abbey in Kentucky, USA. At the end of his life, invited to present a paper in Bangkok on the renewal of monasticism, Merton made what he called his 'Asian pilgrimage' and finally set out to see firsthand what he had studied in books. This journal took him all across Asia, to various holy sites, and to encounters with numerous religious communities. He met, along the way, such people as H.H. the Dalai Lama and Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche. He records all of this, his encounters, and even more interestingly, his own reflection on Buddhism and Christianity, in this wonderful gem of a journal.<br />What would have happened had Merton lived a few more years? I often ask myself this. He was exploring not just the surface of Buddhism (even now, many decades later, the presentation of Buddhism in the West can be very superficial), but delving into its very heart -- mandalas, tantras, and so on, and probing into what their nature was and what this might mean for Christianity to encounter a spirituality that seemed at once totally foreign and alien, and yet at the same time the very essence of what Christianity means.<br />Merton was a brilliant individual. He does not succumb to easy platitudes such as &quot;It's all the same thing&quot; or anything like that. He respects difference. But he does also certainly see a deep and dazzling dynamic unity -- a truth -- that penetrates all of this -- and not just this, but every moment of our lives. That living power -- that is what is important, and he witnessed to this in his life and writings.	2004-03-15
US	49260053	R8YFW0H3OBM5Z	1559391901	94934926	The Path to Bliss: A Practical Guide to Stages of Meditation	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Good Introductory Teachings on Lamrim	This book is a translation, based on an oral teaching of H. H. the Dalai Lama, of the First Panchen Lama's (Lobsang Choekyi Gyaltsen) Lamrim (Stages of the Path) text entitled &quot;Path to Bliss Leading to Omniscience.&quot;<br />Lamrim originates with Atisha, the Indian teacher who came to Tibet and brought together the &quot;vast&quot; and &quot;profound&quot; teachings of Maitreya and Manjushri (respectively) into what became the Kadampa school, which Lama Tsongkhapa later reformed into the Gelugpa school, to which H.H. the Dalai Lama belongs. Thus, Lamrim teachings are especially important to Gelugpas.<br />Lamrim -- which means 'stages of the path' -- is basically a gradualistic approach to enlightenment. One begins by examining one's current situation with meditations on death and impermanence, karma, rebirth in lower realms, etc. This leads one to wish to seek a positive rebirth. This is the initial capacity.<br />After realizing this, however, one then meditates on the defects of samsara (cyclic existence) in general. One comes to desire liberation from all suffering -- becoming an arhat or liberated being. This is the middle capacity.<br />However, then it is important to generate the mind of a bodhisattva -- the intention to help all beings be liberated from suffering. This is the greater capacity, and here on eneters the Mahayana path. Thus one engages in Tonglen meditation and other forms of Lojong (mind training) meditations in order to generate extremely powerful compassion and motivation. This propels one forward along the path to buddhahood and the ability to help all beings.<br />For those not very familiar with the basic points of Lamrim, this will be a very helpful text -- it includes all the points of the path as well as good explanations on Tonglen and the 7-limb cause and effect method for generating bodhicitta (altruistic intention of a bodhisattva). It is important that every Gelugpa practitioner understand these basics.<br />That being said, this text is most suitable to accompany teachings, since reading it on its own will not answer all your questions. It should be accompanied by a qualified teacher, who will guide you through the specific meditations. There is not enough material here to use for doing the meditations on your own, nor would this be very beneficial, in my opinion.<br />This is not, however, an introductory book to Tibetan Buddhism! Some background is required. For example, it presumes you are already doing guru yoga.<br />Good luck!	2004-03-12
US	49260053	R23D8HUV6UEEYE	1559390727	10499404	The Gelug/Kagyu Tradition of Mahamudra	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Excellent exposition for grounded practitioners	This is a rather imposing book, I have to say. It is certainly not for everyone, but will be of inestimable value to the right persons. <br />Its apparatus is divided into four sections: first an introductory section of 70+ pages written by the translator, Alexander Berzin. Second, the root text itself, entitled &quot;A Root Text for the Precious Gelug/Kagyu Tradition of Mahamudra: The Main Road of the Triumphant Ones, by the First Panchen Lama, Lozang-choekyi-gyeltsen&quot; (6 pages). Third, an oral commentary on the root text by H.H. the Dalai Lama (60+ pages). Fourth, an oral commentary on the First Panchen Lama's auto-commentary, again by H.H. the Dalai Lama (180+ pages). Lastly, prints of the root text in the Tibetan language.<br />Teachings on Mahamudra and Dzogchen are difficult to categorize. On the one hand, they are seen as the summit of Tibetan Buddhist practice. Dzogchen is the ultimate practice, the essence of the practices, in the Nyingma tradition; and similarly Mahamudra is here taught as a very high-level practice closely related to the completion stage of the anuttarayoga tantras. On the other hand, Mahamudra and Dzogchen are also taught to beginners as a way to quickly see into the nature of mind. This does _not_ mean that they are &quot;easy&quot; or &quot;simple&quot; practices, as Berzin stresses; he notes that to speak of them in such a way is to disparage them - a terrible thing to do.<br />The First Panchen Lama himself points out this tension in the root text, where he notes: &quot;The great meditators of the snow mountains are practically of a single opinion in proclaiming that this is a guideline indicating how to forge a state of Buddhahood. Be that as it may, I, Choekyi-gyeltsen, say that this is a wondrous skillful means for beginners to accomplish the settling of their mind and is a way that leads you to recognize [merely] the conventional nature of mind that conceals something deeper.&quot;<br />In other words, one can engage in Mahamudra practice as a beginner to see the conventional nature of mind. Later, one can use the practice to see the ultimate (empty) nature of mind.<br />Berzin's excellent introduction will prepare practitioners somewhat for the root text and the commentaries by His Holiness. That being said, a few recommendations... (1) Repeated readings will be beneficial, since Berzin's introduction, although easy to read, can be a bit unclear at times.  (2) Memorize the root text. It is only 6 pages. It is very important in practice to keep in mind the instructions of the teacher. To memorize the root text was the instruction of my teacher, and although it may seem laborious, it is of unquestionable value. Treat it as a preliminary practice, or to help you in the development of shamatha. (3) Study this text with an experienced practitioner/teacher. If you just pick up this book, but never receive any teachings on mahamudra from a teacher, your progress may be slow.<br />Good luck - don't give up!!!	2004-03-11
US	49260053	RLU0KUJUT8T9I	9627341207	762611555	Advice from the Lotus-Born: A Collection of Padmasambhavas Advice to the Dakini Yeshe Tsogyal and Other Close Disciples	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	The father of Tibetan Buddhism	Padmasambhava, also known as Guru Rinpoche, is credited as being the main person who brought Buddhism to Tibet, and is also understood by Tibetan Buddhists to have been a Buddha himself.<br />In some contexts, one approaches teachings directly at their source first, and then looks to commentaries, explanations, etc. For example, in Protestant Christianity, one is often encouraged to go straight to the New Testament and read that. Then one reads the works of theologians, biblical scholars, preachers, and so on.<br />However, in Buddhism the approach is often the opposite. First one goes to a teacher who is a contemporary of yours. Then, having gained some confidence from that teacher, and having put into practice some of the teachings and having seen their effectiveness and practicality, one then turns to some other writings of an introductory nature. After having gained some grounding in those, one may then turn to a commentary on a root text. Then, one may read the root texts oneself. Lastly, one may turn to the sutras and words of the Buddha himself. Trying to start there, however, would not be advised -- as anyone who has tried to read the Tripitaka (the three baskets of teachings of the Buddha) or the tantras can attest!<br />Similarly in the case of this text -- one should have a good grounding before attempting very difficult texts, and they should in all cases be read while one is studying with a lama. Otherwise, misunderstandings may occur, and these may be worse than not having encountered the text in the first place. But if one does have that grounding, what greater treasure is there than to read such wonderful texts?<br />I write this review, and give it five stars, in part because I saw that there are already three reviews and even though each one praised the book, for some reason one of the reviews shows up as having no stars (a bug in Amazon's system, I suppose), and so the general rating of this book was only three and a half. Yet, clearly, stars cannot estimate the value of such works...	2004-03-11
US	49260053	R2MBARXG0UXLXH	1570629447	143809971	Roaring Silence: Discovering the Mind of Dzogchen	Books	5	25	31	N	N	Remarkable for those w/some experience of non-dual awareness	The authors of this remarkable book, two tantric teachers from the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism (which is where Dzogchen finds its home), state in the opening that this book is for those who have had at least a glimpse of non-dual awareness already. Without that, they say, it's rather pointless to read on, and I would agree.<br />If you have had some experiences of this, however, and you feel attracted (perhaps through a karmic connection?) to Dzogchen, then this book is a treasure. It is the closest to a &quot;how-to&quot; book that one can really find on this remarkable tradition. That being said, it is no substitute for a qualified teacher.<br />Dzogchen is a tradition of &quot;formless&quot; or &quot;open&quot; meditation, somewhat like Zen (also in its radical nondualism and corresponding use of paradoxical language). However, it is located within Vajrayana or Tantric Buddhism, and hence exists in a different system to Zen. From my own experience, I would hazard that Zen is in a sense simpler and cleaner than the Tibetan systems. However, I now prefer the Tibetan teachings, since they seem more encompassing and are richer (in my mind). But every person is different.<br />Dzogchen means &quot;the Great Perfection&quot;, since in Dzogchen one sees all phenomena as the utterly perfect play of primordial wisdom. For more, I would suggest turning to the book.<br />One last comment: the book gives exercises and stresses that one follow them strictly and not just glaze over them. I would also reiterate that suggestion. Realization comes from practice, not just skimming through a book. Do the exercises faithfully, and I think you will benefit greatly from this excellent slim volume.<br />May all beings abide in perfect bliss.	2004-02-09
US	49260053	R1G3HKTAWL2D26	0374520011	107612170	Mystics and Zen Masters	Books	5	71	71	N	N	Valuable for students of Asian religion and mysticism	Although this book is a collection of essays over a range of subjects, and therefore not a continuous work, it is a very valuable work for understanding Chinese religion, Zen, and European mysticism (the main topics it addresses). The essays are classicaly Merton, although they are written in a more academic style -- and perhaps this is why the book has drawn criticism from the other reviewers. In other words, this book is less for learning about prayer and contemplation for one's own daily practice, and more for delving a bit deeper into some of the technical and historical aspects of Zen and Christian mysticism. For those interested in the latter, however, Merton does a very good job. His understanding of Zen is remarkable for someone who did not engage in it firsthand and who (I assume) learned about it primarily from reading while he was in the monastery. The first essay (with the same title as the book) gives a very interesting and understandable account of the break between the Northern and Southern schools, and the Zen of Hui-neng vs. the Zen of Hsen-hsiu.<br />So, although this book may not be for everyone, it is still a very fine work and will be very beneficial for many readers.	2004-02-06
US	49260053	R2ZXT7SQV9ZLOR	1570629420	704548116	Introduction to the Middle Way: Chandrakirti's Madhyamakavatara with Commentary by Ju Mipham	Books	5	69	70	N	N	Essential Text for Students of Tib. Buddhism and Madhyamaka	All four schools of Tibetan Buddhism follow the philosophical approach of the Prasangika-Madhyamaka tenet system and its explanation of emptiness. They consider the wisdom of emptiness the one and only essential component to liberation from suffering and understanding of true reality. <br />Of course, this &quot;wisdom&quot; aspect of the path is conjoined with the &quot;method&quot; aspect of love, compassion, and bodhicitta -- or seeking enlightenment for the sake of others. It is said that while the method aspect is easy to explain but very difficult to realize (Think of Jesus's &quot;love your neighbor as yourself&quot; - it's not hard to grasp this idea, but how many of us can do it?), so the wisdom of emptiness is very difficult to explain, yet much easier to realize through meditation.<br />Still, we like to have things explained, and that is what makes this text by Chandrakirti, and the accompanying commentary by Ju Mipham, so essential. The fundamental explanation of emptiness is laid out by Nagarjuna in his &quot;Root Verses on the Middle Way&quot; (multiple translations are available -- the one by Jay Garfield entitiled &quot;Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way&quot; includes his own commentary and can be recommended), but Nagarjuna is notoriously difficult to approach, even with commentary.  This is why Tibetan Buddhists studying in monasteries begin with Chandrakirti. The title of Chandrakirti's work, in fact, could more elaborately be translated as &quot;Introduction to Nagarjuna's Root Verses on the Middle Way&quot;.<br />Chandrakirti lays out in a much simpler way the fundamental wisdom of emptiness and conjoins his explanation with the perfection of the paramitas of the &quot;method&quot; aspect -- generosity and so on. The language is poetic and the translation lends itself to memorization (which is how Tibetan monks and nuns learn it). Memorizing stanzas, entire chapters, or the whole text, can be recommended as a way of internalizing the knowledge, and this translation is skilful enough to make that possible and enjoyable.<br />Still, Chandrakirti's volume could hardly be called &quot;Emptiness for Dummies&quot; -- it is still a challenging text, and this is what makes the accompanying commentary by Ju Mipham so invaluable. Mipham was an exemplary master, and is supremely qualified to offer commentary. He places the writings of Chandrakirti in a much broader context and offers copious explanations.<br />Unfortunately, one must admit that his text is quite difficult in its own right. This is exacerbated by the fact that he died before completing the commentary, and it was compiled by his students, who, in their zeal not to omit anything written by the late master, included everything they could find, with the result that there is much repetition and the organization is less clear than one might desire.<br />Thus, one must conclude by saying that the study of this text would be much facilitated by reading it with a study group and preferably in communication with an authentic master who has studied and personally realized the teachings.<br />And lastly -- best wishes to those who undertake to study such masterpieces. May you and all beings be happy.	2004-02-03
US	49260053	RFHBMRGGJVSO9	0893819034	242199061	The Spirit of Tibet: The Life and World of Khyentse Rinpoche, Spiritual Teacher	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Incredible chronicle of photographs and teachings	Matthieu Ricard, a French scientist who left a lucrative and prestigious research job in Paris to explore the Tibetan Buddhist tradition and ended up becoming a monk and spending most of his life there, provides us with a remarkable book of photographs and memorable quotes chronicling the life of his teacher, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, to whom he dedicates this worthy tribute.<br />Although little known outside of the world of Tibetan Buddhism, Khyentse Rinpoche (1910-1991) has been called &quot;one of the twentieth century's greatest spiritual figures and a teacher of many of the Tibetan masters of today, including HH the Dalai Lama&quot; (Snow Lion Press). Indeed, this book features a good-length preface by the Dalai Lama, in which His Holiness names Khyentse Rinpoche as one of his teachers (gurus), especially in the Dzogchen teachings and &quot;rigpa&quot; (the awareness of mind). Just reading a few of the excellent quotes provided in this volume from this remarkable teacher will convince all but the most hard-hearted of skeptics that this was a truly great spiritual master who embodied the teachings of Buddhism in a remarkable way.<br />Even for the non-practitioners, the book is filled with so many stunning photographs of Tibet, Bhutan, the rituals, the people, and of course, the master himself, that it would bless and honor any coffee table in any home. Indeed, I cannot but feel that any home would benefit from having a copy of this book. For those who follow the path, it is, of course, much more than that.<br />I was amazed when I saw this book -- it is lovely in every sense. I hope you will also enjoy it as much as I have. May all beings enjoy peace and happiness!	2004-01-20
US	49260053	R3LCR6T8J5ECIN	0393321789	332373546	The Making of a Poem: A Norton Anthology of Poetic Forms	Books	1	82	121	N	N	Not worth your money	There is definitely a need for such books on poetic forms today, but this book does not fill that lacuna adequately. As has been noted, the editors are not poets of the first rank (despite the fact that Mark Strand was a poet laureate of the US) and are not unquestionable masters of form. So, while this book may serve a scant few beginners, there remain better other options.<br />I would suggest checking out John Hollander's excellent short work &quot;Rhyme's Reason&quot;. He goes over more forms and in a better style than in this book. If you are a poet yourself, definitely you should choose Hollander's book over this one. However, if you want an easy and light read, maybe this book is better, since it provides longer &quot;readings&quot; of certain poems. But if that's what you're after, you'd be better served by Harold Bloom's &quot;How to Read and Why&quot;, a very good book written by a top scholar and yet readable by virtually anyone interested in literature.	2002-05-19
US	49260053	R22IASAPSDURVF	039304999X	646578466	Selected Poems and Prose of Paul Celan	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Very good bilingual edition	Paul Celan is now considered one of the great postwar poets, perhaps the greatest poet to come out of the Holocaust, and the 2nd most influential German poet after Rilke. His most famous poem, \\"Todesfuge\\" (Deathfugue) is considered the most important poem on the Holocaust.<br />But beyond all that hyperbolic praise lies a poet who defies easy description, whose poetry is both demanding, difficult, beautiful and lyrical, and who deserves to be read by a wider audience.<br />Felstiner provides us with one of the 2 best bilingual editions of Celan's most important work (the other is by Michael Hamburger), and supplements it with a very well written introduction and translations of Celan's most important prose writings, including the Buchner speech \\"The Meridian\\". These prose pieces will be essential for students of Celan, and cast an important light on the poems.<br />The translations of the poems themselves are quite good, and at times brilliant, such as the innovative way that Felstiner translates \\"Deathfugue,\\" subtly interweaving the original German more and more in the repetitions of the chorus until the poem ends with two lines entirely in German. The effect is chilling. Felstiner deserves the translation award he won for this book solely on the basis of this one poem, which shocked me anew when I read it in his English translation.<br />If you are unfamiliar with Celan up to now, this is a good place to start. If you are already an admirer of Celan's poems, this will be a welcome addition to your library. See also Felstiner's biography on Celan, \\"Paul Celan: Poet, Survivor, Jew\\".	2002-04-23
US	49260053	R3I4U5CK71R5AE	067946333X	477028395	Fury: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Mixed Reactions for a Mixed Book	Look at the reviews and the ratings for this book and you'll notice something instantly - a host of 5 star reviews, and a host of 1-2 star reviews - with the effect that the book currently has an average rating of 3 stars. Seem strange? This is more than your usual mixed bag of reactions, and there's a reason for it.<br />First of all, Salman Rushdie is without a doubt one of the most skilful and intelligent authors currently writing in the English language. He has justly received much praise and many awards - notably being awarded the &quot;Booker of Bookers&quot; for his novel &quot;Midnight's Children.&quot; His prose writing has an easy flair and wit that many would-be novellists in creative writing courses are feverishly trying to learn to emulate. In this book, he pulls out all the stops and lets go with his characteristic style. Hence the five-star ratings.<br />Unfortunately, Rushdie himself knows all this too well. In fact, it is possible his ego has become rather over-inflated from all his success. This is, in fact, what diminishes one's enjoyment of this book. Set in New York, the protagonist is too unashamedly an alter-ego for the author himself, who views everything with a quick, occasionally cynical, and very witty eye, describes his settings in gritty, fabulous detail, and manages to snag the most attractive women in the world without so much as breaking out in a sweat. While initially thrilling, this unbridled egotism can be a quick turn-off, however, as Rushdie the author puns without restraint, makes classical references and then points them out to us, and tries to astound and baffle us with his erudition. This misguided attempt to show how much more intelligent he is than his readers backfires in the end (for many of us).<br />If you have not read Rushdie before, I would suggest turning first to &quot;Midnight's Children&quot;, which is a marvellous book and much less self-indulgent than this one. If you don't like Rushdie's other books - do not pick this one up, you'll be upset. However, for Rushdie fans who enjoy his style in general, this will definitely please, and you will probably find the ending especially quite brilliant.	2002-04-20
US	49260053	R229GMZ5BDNCQR	0892551348	177280705	Poems of Paul Celan: A Bilingual German/English Edition	Books	5	41	42	N	N	The Best Bilingual Edition of Celan Thus Far	Poet and translator Michael Hamburger has done us an excellent service by giving us this book, which will certainly become the bilingual edition of choice for Paul Celan. A few words.<br />On Celan: Probably the second most important German-language poet of the 20th century after Rilke, but very different in style and mindset! Whereas Rilke provides incredible lyricism, Celan's poetry is jerky, raw, cut-off, even tortured. Struggling with how to write poetry in the German language after the Holocaust (Celan was a Jew), he chose to focus on the basics of language - prepositions, pronouns - and place the language under such pressure and in such tension that poetry could again speak. To Adorno's claim that there could be \\"no poetry after Auschwitz\\", Celan proved there was a way, but it was a very difficult one. If you have not yet come across Celan, I can heartily recommend him as one of the greats of the 20th century. His most famous poem is \\"Todesfuge\\" or \\"Death Fugue\\", but his other poems are also excellent. But be forewarned - this is no light verse. You'll get some heavy stuff, but you'll love it.<br />On Hamburger: he is a good poet in his own right and a wonderful translator, having already provided the best edition of Hoelderlin's poetry. Now that he has turned to Celan, we benefit very much from his efforts. Celan is incredibly difficult to translate, and the translator must make many choices and must try not to destroy the ambiguity in the German by reducing it simplistically into the English. Hamburger does a good job in this - in most cases a better job than Felstiner, who is the other main translator of Celan (and has a different collection). I would recommend Hamburger's translations over Felstiner. In most cases, he retains more, and there are fewer times when you will say \\"Eh? Why did he do that??\\" I suppose if you don't speak any German at all, this will make less of a difference, but if you're getting a bilingual edition you probably can at least reada little bit.<br />Well, a very good book of translations and a fantastic poet. What more could you ask for?	2002-04-20
US	49260053	R7PA2DWK92RC1	0374528446	576089022	Poems 1968-1998	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	A Poet of the First Order	I first encountered Paul Muldoon when he came to my university to give a reading and a seminar talk. When I picked up a photocopied packet of his poems and started to read through them, I was confused, then intrigued, then thrilled. When Muldoon arrived a few days later for the poetry reading and the seminar discussion, I was further impressed by this wonderful man, who has a deep understanding of poetry and language.<br />These poems are not &quot;easy&quot;. Many of them require multiple readings to begin to understand them (although some are quite straightforward, but these are rare). However, Muldoon's use of language, his sense for sounds, his near-obsession with rhyme, and his inventiveness are qualities so far above most other contemporary poets that, well, what can I say? He's the real thing. Today, like Geoffrey Hill, he's very well regarded in the UK, and virtually unknown in the USA. This is tragic. A century from now, the names of Hill and Muldoon will be known, and most US poets will be forgotten - but that's another topic.<br />If you like difficult but beautiful poetry, pick this up. If you are into pretty easy, conversational verse that you can grasp from a first reading - stay away!	2002-04-18
US	49260053	RU7K6YUR5Z5EU	0691029024	463435434	Chan Insights and Oversights	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Post-structuralist Look at Zen	Faure's book is a very ambitious attempt to look at the history of Zen and its relationship with the West, and attempt to see how this has been from the start shaped through ideological battles. He traces the history of this East-West interaction from the first landing of the Jesuits Matteo Ricci and Frances Xavier in China and Japan, respectively, up to Kerouac and the Beat generation in the 1960s. At the same time, Faure employs the concepts, methodologies and epistemological insights of post-structuralist thinkers from Foucault, Derrida, Michel de Certeau, Deleuze and others.<br />The first part of the book is more straightforwardly history and historiography, where Faure develops his main claim that the split between the Northern and Southern Chan schools in China should *not* be equated with the separate approaches of Soto and Rinzai (gradual vs. sudden enlightenment) Chan/Zen. He sees this as a later invention. He also questions the lineages of the Zen/Chan patriarchs as serving ideological purposes, rather than being factually historical.<br />The second part of the book is where Faure develops his post-structuralist thought in examining questions of space and place, time, language, writing, and individuality (a chapter on each of these). This will be quite interesting for those unfamiliar with post-structuralist thought, but the cognoscenti may be disappointed by Faure's conclusions.<br />In general, a good work especially for those who have up to now reacted allergically to &quot;postmodernism&quot; or &quot;deconstruction&quot;, since while Faure employs the thinking of these &quot;theorists&quot;, he does so in very easy to understand language. Unfortunately, for those who *do* know these thinkers and their works, Faure's efforts may seem only half-successful. For example, while he criticizes other scholars for failing to see the ways in which they were themselves implicated in their theories and writings (he does this to E. Said, DT Suzuki, and many others), he fails to historicize himself, or examining his own ideological &quot;place&quot;, his own use of rhetorical techniques, etc.<br />Still, a very good work, and virtually a must read for those studying Zen history and historiography.	2002-04-18
US	49260053	RYS9XD9QM8MQR	0393317757	394184346	The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: The Four Fundamental Concepts of Psychoanalysis (Vol. Book XI)  (The Seminar of Jacques Lacan)	Books	5	30	36	N	Y	The Master - but not for all!	Lacan must be read with care. He is not for everybody. He is for those who are interested in the mind, in desire, in language. Specifically, for those who have developed an interest in &quot;theory&quot; or &quot;post-structuralism&quot;, which he helped to develop. In this volume Lacan sets out some key concepts in his thinking - but he does not do so systematically! Do not expect him to explain everything to you in a clear, linear fashion. Rather, he plays on words and on ideas, he maneuvers and evades, he skirts around the issue, and comes back to it. Have patience if you choose to read him - discuss his writings with others. If you do this, you may come to understand why Lacan is regarded with so much respect in France and has virtualy reared an entire generation of first-rate theorists and thinkers.<br />It will help (but will not guarantee understanding) if you have some background in Freud, even if it is only a slight one. Good luck!	2002-04-18
US	49260053	R2TSXGARWNM0RW	041513904X	157100255	The Postmodern History Reader (Routledge Readers in History)	Books	3	15	22	N	N	Okay Beginner's Introduction	Keith Jenkins has done a reasonable, but not excellent, job in collecting this series of essays, selections, and exchanges on the effect that postmodern thought is (not) having on the academic field of history. Along with a host of excerpts from important thinkers such as Lyotard, Baudrillard, Foucault and the like, he includes academic spats taken from the pages of the journals &quot;Past and Present&quot; and &quot;History and Theory&quot;. These are more amusing (or depressing) than informative, in that they merely show how little thought is actually going on in the field of history.<br />Jenkins is himself pretty aware of this, however. His own written contributions to the book almost make it worthwhile. He comments on the exchanges in the academic journals and notes their unsatisfactory nature, and he also provides a quite good introduction in which he details the main problematic and the key issues being (not being?) discussed in history departments.<br />Despite Jenkins' own clarity in his writing and occasional commentary, I cannot wholeheartedly recommend the book, since it is clearly written for beginners who will very quickly outgrow it, and it seems to me that those beginners could begin more fruitfully elsewhere - some other introduction to postmodern/post-structuralist thought. History is not really (yet - will it ever be?) the field where cutting edge thinking is going on in this regard. It is characterized more by a reactionary attitude, or a &quot;ueberwintern&quot; strategy -- hoping postmodernism and its theories will just go away and leave good ole empiricism alone. There are precious few exceptions to this general rule (Jenkins himself being one, of course).<br />Also, there are some major omissions (in my opinion), including that of Michel de Certeau, whose influence on historiography and theory in general will prove enormous.	2002-04-11
US	49260053	R2MV1BMEIZQWVY	0231055757	895693968	The Writing of History (European Perspectives)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Excellent for those interested in historiography and theory	Along with French intellectual giants such as Lacan, Foucault, Derrida and Levinas, stands Michel de Certeau. Despite being far less kown than these other figures of post-structuralist thought, it has been said that his thought and range of interests exceeded all of them (He studied and taught history, anthropology, sociology, psychoanalysis, theology, literature and French). He deserves to be better well-known in the English speaking world, and will undoubtedly become so, now that his major works have been translated and are available.<br />This book, The Writing of History, is where de Certeau deals most comprehensively with post-structuralist theory and history, or, more specifically, historiography. Although American academia is still very hesitant about anything smacking of \\"postmodernism\\", it is inevitable that they too will have to acknowledge the sea change taking place, and find a place or at least a thought-out response to, theory. Despite definitely locating itself within the post-structuralist camp, de Certeau's work offers a way forward that is neither repulsive nor irrational, but can in fact be seen as liberating and promising. He argues that historians have worked on a principle of exclusion, whereby they draw an artificial line between the past and present, and separate what is \\"dead\\" from what is not. Through this navigation, they neglect the fact that they themselves are historical beings - they fail to historicize themselves and to recognize fully the ways in which historical processes shape their own actions, their own writing. They also believe - wrongly - that they are somehow above \\"politics\\", and that they may be able to describe politics without being themselves implicated in political processes. Even Foucault, de Certeau argues, fell victim to this trap (see Birth of the Clinic) since he attempts to point out the fundamental basis for knowledge systems without addressing his own basis.<br />De Certeau's thought cannot be summarized here. Iwould encourage this book to all historians who are not theory-phobic, especially those who are interested in the possibilities of thinking about ethics and history together (de Certeau is influenced by Levinas, here). Not many are doing this today, and it is a topic worth exploring more fully, especially as we wrestle with problems in the historiography of the holocaust, genocide, oppression, and other important issues.	2002-04-11
US	49260053	R21NZ7UPARCQM	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	4	276	297	N	N	Are you ready for a long journey into 1950's India?	I will be brief and merely add some comments to the many reviews already written on this book. First of all, I think it is a very good book, but definitely not for everyone. If you're thinking about reading it, you're probably wondering if it's worth the effort of investing in such a long undertaking. Here are some suggestions:<br />If you are yourself Indian and/or interested in India, especially early post-independence Indian history, then you will probably find this a very interesting read. Vikram Seth manages to pack an extraordinary amount of historical, economic, social and cultural detail in his novel, which is, after all, essentially a love story. But it is also a story about -- not just set in -- India. If you have no interest in India or Indian culture (or Pakistan and sub-continental Muslim culture), you will likely be confused by many words and references, and you should keep away from this book.<br />Likewise, if you are interested in Hindu-Muslim relations, Seth does a good job at highlighting some of the key issues and the different ways some Hindus and Muslims look at the same issues. In this, it is amazing to compare what he wrote about the 1950s with the situation in India today. You can't understand what's going on in India today without a good dose of history, and Seth knows that.<br />Well, what if you're not really one way or the other as regards Indian history and culture, but you like big family dramas? This book is also for you. Seth has so much compassion for his characters, that you will find it very hard not to empathize with at least several of them. Moreover, he injects a great deal of humor into the book. It is a book about people, about life -- in all its aspects, about death, about family, and more.<br />However, on the down side, Seth's writing style leaves a bit to be desired. He is no James Joyce, no Faulkner. Although at times his prose does achieve something close to poetry (Seth is originally a poet), these instances are very rare indeed. Usually at dramatic moments, I felt he was trying too hard. At other times, I found his prose simply pedantic -- not awful, just not very good. So ask yourself, how much do you care about really good writing? Most people don't care. For me, it matters a great deal, and proved a slight obstacle in enjoying this book.<br />However, on the whole for me, the good outweighed the bad. For many people, this will be a highly enjoyable and heart-warming read. But don't take my word for it -- you can read the first 20 pages and see for yourself. You'll get the tone and style of the book right away. It doesn't change after that.	2002-04-11
US	49260053	R3GRKZ26KWPHDV	063118693X	874501718	Postmodern Ethics	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good introduction to difficult field	In this imposing work, Bauman gives a readable account of the situation of ethics in today's world. First, he explains the central arguments around ethics in &quot;modernity&quot; before turning to how these are transformed now in &quot;postmodern&quot; thought.<br />These are not easy issues to address, but Bauman does a pretty good job in bringing it into language that most people will be able to understand, while not watering down the thoughts of postmodern ethicists such as E. Levinas, whose work Bauman admires. Since Levinas is so difficult to read and understand, I think that this book can serve as a useful introduction to his thought, the conditions surrounding it, and the thought of other such thinkers.<br />Bauman's work is of course informed by his own work and thinking on these subjects, and readers should also look to his book &quot;Liquid Modernity&quot; in which he presents his views. I only give this book 4 stars, however, because it remains difficult reading - it could have been slightly more well written.	2002-04-10
US	49260053	R18X6IFMMN4D4B	0816614040	38044911	Heterologies: Discourse on the Other (Theory and History of Literature)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Diverse collection of essays from a stimulating mind	Michel de Certeau, who died in 1986, was one of France's leading intellectuals and considered by many to be one of the most brilliant and sensitive minds. A perfect example of the ideal interdisciplinary scholar, he studied and taught in the fields of literary criticism, anthropology, sociology, history, theology, and psychoanalysis. All these disciplines inform the essays of this volume.<br />First time readers of de Certeau will probably not want to start here, since the essays collected are on a variety of topics and in a variety of styles. &quot;The Practice of Everyday Life&quot; or &quot;The Writing of History&quot; might be better starting points (the former for anthropologists, perhaps, and the latter for historians). <br />Of course, despite their variety, these essays all reflect de Certeau's interests in ethics (along the lines of Levinas), theory (French post-structuralism), historiography, mysticism, speech, and politics (cultural studies). Broadly, there are a few essays on Freud and Lacan; a few on Foucault (of whom de Certeau is critical); one on &quot;Mystical Speech&quot;; and an excellent essay on history and ethical historiography. De Certeau assumes a familiarity with his subject matter, and individuals without the right background may find his already difficult language to be unmanageable. However, for those interested in French post-structuralism and looking for a perspective that shows the best of different academic disciplines (including a theological perspective -- de Certeau was a Jesuit), de Certeau is a wonderful find.	2002-04-02
US	49260053	R20D0KR8C69YPB	0618126988	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Great Background Info for Die-hard Tolkien Fans	For those who have gobbled up Tolkien's novel \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" and \\"The Hobbit\\" and are wondering where to look next, this is the obvious first choice. However, the buyer should be cautioned: this is not a \\"novel\\" in the way that Tolkien's other two books are. Rather, it is more like an extension of the appendices at the end of \\"The Return of the King.\\" If you were bored by those appendices, you probably are not so interested in the pre-history of Middle Earth and maybe you do not want to buy this book. You could turn elsewhere to \\"The Book of Lost Tales\\" instead. However, if you loved all that pre-history, then this book is for you and will open your eyes further to the incredible world and mythology Tolkien created.<br />As to this edition: I would recommend it over the others. It is slightly large and therefore easier to handle than standard trade paperbacks (most of which are too small for my taste), with good thick paper (slightly beige - not that awful shiny white stuff), well bound with an appealing cover and good taste. You will like having this book lying around. Also, it is part of a series edited by Christopher Tolkien, so if you end up buying the other books in the series (I hear they are quite good), then you'll want matching editions. So, it may be worth paying a bit more for this one.<br />What do you get? Well, first you get a story about the creation of Middle Earth, which for the first time clearly lays out the religious underpinnings of Tolkien's mythology. The One God, Eru, and his angels (the Valar) are hanging out. Eru gives them a song to sing, and they sing it, but one bad angel (a Satan-figure) rebels and starts singing his own tune, creating dissonance. Some angels follow him, and soon the song is cacophanous. Eru introduces a new melody, but the bad angels rebel again. Finally Eru says \\"Stop!\\" and it all ends. He then says: \\"What you have sung, you will now see created\\" (I'm paraphrasing horribly), and their song becomes Middle Earth -- the forces of good and evil, etc. Amazing concept.<br />We then get a long narrative about how the Valar came down to Middle Earth, how the first-born (Elves) were created, then the dwarves and Men. How Sauron came out; who the Numenoreans were; what \\"O Elbereth! Gilthoniel!\\" refers to; how Galadriel got to Middle Earth; how Sauron became evil; why the elves go off to the Blessed Realm; how the rings of power were made; etc. If you've wondered about all these questions - the answers are all here (or most of them, anyway). Apart from the opening story about creation, the writing is not easy; it is dense and not very story-like at times. Often it feels like a poorly written history book. But if you survived (and liked) \\"The Lord of the Rings\\", then no doubt you can handle Tolkien's writing and you'll be fine (Believe me - I think he writes beautifully at times, but not always in this book!).	2002-04-02
US	49260053	RGWSJFHR8C7UF	0939010275	561523585	The Complete Poems of Anna Akhmatova	Books	4	43	43	N	N	The definitive English edition, but sadly no Russian...	For the totally nonRussian speaking English speaker, this is definitely the definitive Akhmatova (...say that ten times fast...). Not only are all her poems here (over 800), but we get a host of other useful things like introductory essays, an essay by Isaiah Berlin, chronology, notes, and tons of beautiful pictures of the beautiful poet herself.<br />Akhmatova is one of the premier 20th century poets, and it is a shame that her reputation is still only establishing itself among English speaking countries. This volume should help in that regard. However, it must be strongly emphasized that readers who hear Akhmatova only in English are really missing most of the beauty of her poems. Russian poetry is musically beautiful, and this is NOT carried over into the Enlglish, although it must be granted that Hemschemeyer does make some pretty valiant attempts to do just this.<br />So the reason for the four stars is that there is no Russian in this edition. Granted, the size of it would hardly permit it. So I would ask that people complement it with an edition of Akhmatova's poems in the original, and either learn cyrillic or get someone who can read them to read them to you! You will hardly recognize them, they are so beautiful. She is a master of alliteration, assonance and rhyme... all of these being so important to her lyricism.<br />I actually bought this edition, and when I found there was no Russian, I returned it and got Hemschemeyer's &quot;Selected Poems of Anna Akhmatova&quot; instead, which only has 100+ poems but has the Russian on the opposing pages. It was sad to have to do this, but after I sat down and read through some of the poems, I realized I had made the right decision. What I miss most are the pictures...	2001-07-03
US	49260053	R221Q63IYBWYS9	0618001883	825610949	Geoffrey Hill's New and Collected Poems: 1952-1992	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	An excellent collection that will take some digestion	Here, collected in one volume, are Geoffrey Hill's first five books of poetry (For the Unfallen, King Log, Mercian Hymns, Tenebrae, and the Mystery of the Charity of Charles Peguy), plus a few early versions of poems that later appeared in Canaan. For those who are not yet familiar with Hill's works, this would be the obvious place to start, since his last two works (Speech! Speech!, and The Triumph of Love) are both difficult book length poems, and &quot;Canaan&quot; is not necessarily any easier.<br />Not that these poems are easy, not even the ones Hill wrote when he was 19 (like &quot;Genesis&quot;, the opening poem of the collection). What they are is challenging, beautiful, thoughtful, at times meditative, at times lyrical, often skeptical, almost always wonderful.<br />These are poems written for those who love poetry and don't mind if it's hard, who can reread a poem ten times in order to appreciate it, who have the patience to learn to read a real poet. Although this book is only 200+ pages, there is a lifetime (almost!) of reflection contained within it, from the early poems reflecting on art, responsibility, history and war in &quot;For the Unfallen&quot;, to the funeral music of &quot;King Log&quot;, the beautiful prose poems of &quot;Mercian Hymns&quot;, and the deeply religious &quot;Tenebrae&quot;.<br />Give it some time. Don't judge it too quickly. Hill will certainly be remembered as one of the greatest poets of the 20th and early 21st centuries, as one who recognized the heavy responsibility of a poet in our times.	2001-07-03
US	49260053	R3LO947AA016VM	0939010615	663812750	Selected Poems of Anna Akhmatova	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Amazing Lyric Poet, admirable translation and selection	Anna Akhmatova not only lived through some of the most exciting, dangerous, and horrific times in Russian and Soviet history, she was also blessed with an incredible lyrical gift in writing poetry. Collected here, in admirable translations and with the original Russian, are over a hundred of her finer (shorter) poems. The passion and intensity of this poet are clearly visible from the start, from her early love poems of &quot;Tskarskoye Selo&quot; to her later, more serious, &quot;Requiem&quot;.<br />Readers who know enough Russian to read the cyrillic text will appreciate Akhmatova's musical lyricism, the alliteration and natural rhymes and cadences she is able to (so easy, seemingly!) create. The English translations naturally do not have this music, despite the very valiant attempts to recreate it by Hemschemeyer. She usually gets the cadence, rhythm and stress pretty well, but... well... it's never the same. However, since the poetry is difficult, those who have some Russian (but not perfect, like myself) will really enjoy having both languages present on opposing pages.<br />This is a chief complaint I have with the &quot;Complete Poems&quot;, by the way, which have 800 poems, a lot of essays and tons of beautiful photographs, but NO RUSSIAN ORIGINALS! Argh. What is that? The translations are much less than half the worth of these poems.<br />One big complaint with this volume, though, is that it leaves out Akhmatova's major long poem, &quot;Poem without a Hero&quot;. It baffles me why it wasn't included in this volume, even though it runs a bit long. They should have added it to the end. The editor's notes that a subsequent volume of &quot;Poem without a Hero&quot; is forthcoming on its own is small consolation...<br />There are short introductions (abridged from the &quot;Complete Poems&quot; and not terribly interesting), and some notes at the end (somewhat useful).<br />So, this is a great poet, and this may be one of the better editions for readers. Because of the slight complaints, it only gets four stars, but Akhmatova herself deserves all five!e of the slight complaints, it only gets four stars, but Akhmatova herself deserves all five!	2001-07-03
US	49260053	R3SAVPW4ZW9L0O	0618001832	623641053	The Triumph of Love	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A triumph indeed	An incredible poem by a passionate and erudite poet. Written in 150 sections over 82 pages, the Triumph of Love is a poem about memory; the memory of those who have gone before us, have suffered, have made sacrifices, and the ways in which violence is done to them through the forgetting of those living today. The reader will certainly want a dictionary and encyclopedia nearby for the numerous references to historical and literary figures and the many obscure (but irreplaceable) words!    I read it through once myself, and then went back again slowly, then again looking up all the references. Each time I found new appreciation and love for this poem. It is at times beautifully lyrical, coarse, bitingly satirical, but overwhelmingly, in Hill's own words, \\"a sad and angry consolation\\". If you are familiar with Hill's other poems, you will certainly enjoy this ride. If not, you may wish to start with some of Hill's earlier works, which are also wonderful (in his \\"Collected Poems\\").	2001-06-01
US	49260053	RQZD4QZEF9Y3M	0802136540	482780473	Dead Men's Praise	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An excellent new poet	I recently heard Osherow at a reading and was struck by the cleverness of her language, the sound of her poetry and the insight and beauty of her thoughts. Had I not heard her in person, I would certainly read her poetry quite differently, and perhaps even enjoy it slightly less. This is because she reads quite quickly, not slowly intoning each word like the tolling of a bell, but with a certain melody and free flowing style that is appropriate to the conversational tone of many of her poems. This is not to say that this is light verse! She is one of the few poets to tackle religious themes and do it well (obviously Geoffrey Hill would be another, very different, example). I hope you may keep some of these things in mind when you read this work, and do read it! (out loud, of course!)	2001-04-16
US	49260053	RTIL4JQ6IJEGB	0819191213	349284210	Internal Desecration	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Highly Recommended	It is unfortunate that this book is only on special order. Dr. Doehring is an excellent pastoral counsellor, specializing in counselling psychology and sexual abuse and harassment. Although she has a background in more traditional approaches (Freudian) she is now very interested in counselling psychology, an approach much more amenable to those who are not familiar with the technical language, and one that is more practical for most people.<br />Dr. Doehring writes in a very clear and readable style. She speaks from a Christian (more specifically, Presbyterian) viewpoint, but can be read by anyone. Also, she takes seriously multicultural and gender concerns.	2001-02-09
US	49260053	RWXKD1UUJ3L26	0687359341	898478269	Taking Care: Monitoring Power Dynamics and Relational Boundaries in Pastoral Care and Counseling	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Wonderful Pastoral Counsellor	Dr. Doehring, a member of the faculty of Boston University School of Theology and also the Danielsen Institute, is an intelligent, skilled and above all very conscientious and warm-hearted pastoral counsellor. She writes in a very clear style that anyone will be able to understand, and in a way that people can relate to. This book is highly recommended for those who want a non-technical work on counselling psychology from a Christian perspective. Look out also for a new book she is working on, which may be out in 2002.	2001-02-09
US	49260053	R3T74IZ57YL06Q	0824806891	232420994	Chieko, and Other Poems of Takamura Kotaro	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent poet, one of the only translations	Takamura Kotaro is one of the most beloved poets in Japan. His poems to Chieko are known by virtually all adult Japanese, and considered very moving. Unfortunately, Kotaro is virtually unknown outside of Japan.<br />This is the book that brought Kotaro some exposure in the English speaking world. The translations are decent -- some poems do not survive it well, others seem to be all right. Until a better translation comes out, however, this will have to do (or learn Japanese!).<br />Kotaro writes in free verse. Like Rilke, he went to Paris and was heavily influenced by Rodin (Kotaro, too, was a sculptor). The poems chronicle his life in Paris as an artist, then his love for his wife Chieko and the tragedy as he watched her gradually go insane and then die, and finally poems from his &quot;History of Imbecility&quot;. It is a decent collection. Kotaro is a beautiful writer, get acquainted with his work!	2001-02-08
US	49260053	R1ADLWIJ001S3G	0791447766	887401156	Ultimate Realities: A Volume in the Comparative Religious Ideas Project	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A methodical, traditional approach...	This book is the second in the Comparative Religious Ideas Project (CRIP), a project in which one scholar representing a major religious tradition (but not of that tradition him/herself) puts forward a view of that religions view on a major issue (in this case &quot;ultimate realities&quot;) combined with a bit of work on trying to draw out a comparative framework from this. The religions covered are: Chinese Religion, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism. The scholars are predominantly from the faculty of Boston University (School of Theology and Department of Religion).<br />This volume begins with a foreword by Tu Weiming. I think the forewords in this series are perhaps the best part of it. There then follows a chapter each per religion, and a final three chapters on the comparative framework, and the nature of drawing comparisons at all. This is rather dry stuff.<br />One wonders who this kind of book will benefit most. Scholars of these religions are unlikely to gain much from a 30-page condensed chapter on that religion's views (especially since the authors, who are all good scholars in their own right, have already written a number of good books in which they put forth their views in a much more developed and understandable way). On the other hand, if you are unfamiliar with a given tradition, you are not going to learn much in 30 pages. So, primarily this work is for those interested in comparing religious ideas (not &quot;religions&quot; because this involves much more than just the ideas) in a rather traditional (but very methodical) approach.<br />If this is what you want, then this will be an excellent addition to your collection; otherwise, I would look elsewhere.<br />The book ends with a section on selected works for further reading.	2001-02-08
US	49260053	RWK2Q5179TIR	0791447804	207646482	The Human Condition (The Comparative Religious Ideas Project)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Comparative Religion from a Traditional Stance	&quot;The Human Condition&quot; is one of three volumes from the three year long project run mainly by the Boston University School of Theology called the Comparative Religious Ideas Project (CRIP). The idea was to get together a group of scholars, one representing each major religious tradition (but not of that tradition him/herself), plus a group of &quot;comparativist&quot; scholars, to meet regularly and discuss three main topics: the human condition, ultimate realities, and religious truth. Volumes then emerged on each topic.<br />The religions covered are: Chinese Religion, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism. Most of the scholars are from the faculty of Boston University (School of Theology and Department of Religion).<br />This volume contains a well written foreword by Peter Berger, who talks about globalisation and pluralism. There follows an introduction by Robert Neville, who chaired the project. Then individual chapters follow, one each per world religion, in which the relevant scholar tries to analyze how that religion (based mainly on its texts) has viewed the human condition. The volume ends with chapters trying to draw out some comparisons.<br />This volume will be of use to people interested in comparative religion. It will not be enjoyed, perhaps, by those who disagree with its methodology. For example, as the title of the project suggests, the study confines itself to &quot;ideas&quot;, not practises. It therefore lacks something in the way of anthropological and historical approaches. It does not take into account more recent approaches such as narrative theology. And the compressed nature of the chapters means that much of the complexity and polyvocality present in any major religious tradition disappears (an understandable problem if one tries to answer &quot;How does Islam / Christianity / etc. view the human condition&quot; in 30 pages).<br />The book ends with a section on selected works for further reading.	2001-02-08
US	49260053	R2L9WSNRHSR67H	0375411267	756592503	Persian Poets (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good Selection and Good Translations	Persian Poetry has come onto the popular scene recently with interest in Rumi and his mystical/love poems. However, those interested might also be interested in the tradition of such poetry that Rumi comes out of. Actually Rumi is considered as only one of the four great mystical poets in Persia (and not necessarily the best of them).<br />Washington's selection is an intelligent one, and the poems are on the whole good translations. Often such collections are a mixed bag, but in this case a good job was done. Since there are really no alternatives to a collection of Persian poetry in translation in print at the moment, this volume is recommended!	2001-02-02
US	49260053	R158FXPRUQB1CO	0687046750	23691676	Care of Persons, Care of Worlds: A Psychosystems Approach to Pastoral Care and Counseling	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Intelligent Book, Technical at Times	This is a very intelligently written book on pastoral counselling from a Christian perspective. The theological view the author holds is process theology, which arose out of Alfred North Whitehead's 'process metaphysics'. According to this theology, God is not the omnipotent father-like figure of traditional theology, but rather more like a creative force that subtly influences everything towards the good, but cannot force anything to just do good. God is therefore an intricate part of reality, enmeshed, and suffers along with us.<br />However, this theological view is combined with recent approaches in counselling psychology to create a really useful book for the pastor, chaplain, or just interested Christian looking to be a better helper to herself or others. The book can be technical at times, but there are also examples that are accessible if you just skip through some of the technical stuff and go back to it later. Recommended!	2001-02-02
US	49260053	R21LTOK334JHM2	0321015576	708706456	Literature: An Introduction to Fiction, Poetry, and Drama (7th Edition)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The Best Teaching Anthology	... First of all, it is massive and contains three books in one - fiction, poetry and drama. Each section includes a plethora of selections as well as longer works (like the full length plays of Hamlet and Macbeth). So one is really getting quite a library from this one book.<br />Even better, the sections are organized along themes in order to teach the student (or interested reader) how to appreciate the various forms. So the poetry section has sections on sound, figures of speech, rhythm, closed and open form, etc. I suppose this comes from it being a textbook for undergraduate courses - in any case, it pays off. I've learned a tremendous amount already. It's all in very easy to understand non-technical language, too.<br />At the end of the book, there is even a brief section on various forms of literary criticism. The book contains numerous student essays, brief author biographies, reflections by the authors on their own works (this is really great), and it reflects a really broad range of genres and time periods (unfortunately the section on haiku is plagued by bad translations, and there aren't enough examples of Chinese and other Japanese poetry... oh well!). There is also an emphasis on getting the reader to practice (and write for him or herself) what is being taught. So if you want to be a writer, this is great.<br />If you're a beginner interested in getting into literature, this is really a great way to do it. Don't be put off by the massiveness of this book - it's really a resource. Just start in one small place (I started in 'poetry') and work your way around. It will definitely increase your appreciation for literature.	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R5N0Y7NRKENB6	0810116499	4386737	New Poems: A Bilingual Edition (European Poetry Classics)	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Do you want to read Rilke or Cohn?	Rilke has been attaining great popularity in the English speaking world, and for good reason. His lyric imagination and the beauty of his thought appeal immediately to the reader -- there is little that is 'inaccessible' about this poetry. 'New Poems', which appeared in 1907, may be his finest work. It was written while Rilke was heavily under the influence of Rodin, living in Paris, and it shows what poetic genius can accomplish when finally brought in contact with rigor.<br />The poems are therefore highly recommended. The only question is: which translation? This depends on one's taste and how you are going to use the German original alongside the English translation. <br />Cohn's translation falls on the very liberal side. He offends Nabokov's idea that all translations should be as literal as possible. The problem with liberal translations like Cohn's is that the more they diverge from the original in an attempt to get at the real 'sense' or 'feel' of the poem, the more they become just one more interpretation. And maybe you would have had a different one? Even, dare I say, a better one? They also pit the translator against the poet in a sense, and unless it is the rare case where the translator is a better poet than the poet being translated, this is not a good idea...<br />Just one example. The second stanza of Cohn's translation of &quot;The Panther&quot; (maybe Rilke's most famous poem, and very difficult to translate well) includes the line &quot;pacing out that mean, constricted ground.&quot; Readers will search in vain for any of these words (much less the phrase) in the original German. Edward Snow provides a much better (and more literal) translation as:<br />&quot;The supple pace of powerful, soft strides, turning in the very smallest circle, is like a dance of strength around a center in which a great will stands numbed.&quot;<br />Ah, that is Rilke. His ideas are so beautiful, that I want a translation that preserves that beauty, instead of turningit into something else. &quot;New Poems&quot; is always simple, and no translator should stuff in verbal acrobatics to accomplish what Rilke does so easily. Thus, I have to recommend Snow's translation over Cohn's. However, if you want something flashy, go for it!	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R19RCTUXEKNK52	0231106572	332944730	The Vimalakirti Sutra	Books	5	45	48	N	N	One of the best sutras - intelligent, funny	Vimalakirti is not only one of the most popular sutras in Buddhism, but it is also one of the easiest to read, most enlightening and at the same time full of humor. Vimalakirti was a Boddhisattva who decides to pretend he is sick so that others will come to him, learn, and achieve enlightenment. Among those who come along is Sariputra, a disciple of the Buddha, who is treated rather irreverently in the sutra. He just doesn't get anything, and his blindness is used in the sutra as a method for teaching. Thus, when he sees a goddess he asks her why she doesn't get rid of her female form (for a male one, since he thinks that would be better). She answers him by changing herself into a male form and Sariputra into a female form, then she mocks him with his own question. The poor guy is bewildered. She then changes him back and explains how neither male nor female is anything, and thereby helps Sariputra along his way to enlightenment by showing the blindness of his sexism.<br />The highpoint of the sutra is when all the various boddhisattvas are asked how to understand the non-dual dharma. They spout their wisdom one by one, saying how it is neither this nor that, neither this nor that, etc., until finally it comes to Vimalakirti's turn. At that moment, he says nothing and remains silent. &quot;Ah,&quot; says Manjusri, &quot;only when words are overcome can we understand the non-dual dharma.&quot;<br />Well, what can I say. I highly recommend this wonderful sutra. Whether you are a Buddhist or just interested in religious texts, this makes for a great read. If I made it seem just hilarious, it's actually also really deep stuff and it will make you think.	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R2FBJQNOOP999V	0195199898	481716099	The Composition of Four Quartets	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Helen Gardner is an Authority	Four Quartets is unarguably Eliot's masterpiece, one of the last things he wrote. It is a notoriously difficult work to read, but Helen Gardner is the authority on the matter. <br />Although I don't find her writing style to be as accessible as Reibetanz's book on the Four Quartets, she will help anyone to a deeper understanding of these beautiful, philosophical poems.  Unfortunately such books tend to be out of print, but if you can find a copy somewhere and you want to come to a better understanding of Eliot's poems, grab it! Otherwise check your library.	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R1O7RP52Y502SG	0874514614	310151899	The Best of Rilke: 72 Form-True Verse Translations with Facing Originals, Commentary, and Compact Biography (English and German Edition)	Books	2	30	33	N	N	Admirable Effort, Not the Best Translation	Rilke is rapidly becoming one of the most popular poets in America -- no mean feat, considering he wrote in German! But the recognition is well deserved. Few poets can match the easy beauty of Rilke's thought, or the immediate accessibility of his poems. If you are looking to increase your appreciation of poetry (or would like to give a book to someone whom you think should), then Rilke makes a good start as any.<br />So there are only two questions: what book of Rilke's poetry (he was a rather prolific chap) and what translator?<br />Arndt's selection answers your first question for you. The selection is a good one, with most of the favourites (including &quot;The Panther&quot;, &quot;Pieta&quot;, etc.). Unfortunately, the translations leave quite a lot to be desired. Ardnt (who made a name for himself translating Pushkin and is a scholar of Russian - not German) attempts to retain the form of Rilke's poems (Rilke wrote structured, rhymed verse). He thus delivers lines of rhymed iambic pentamenter. Unfortunately, this means that while the poems sound nice and flow nicely, much of the beauty of Rilke's thoughts and words is lost to the necessity of form.<br />A particularly gruesome example is the way Arndt renders one of my favorites, &quot;Liebes-Lied&quot; (Love Song). Rilke's wonderful ending: &quot;O susses Lied&quot; (O sweet song)<br />ends up being translated as &quot;O sweet the lilt&quot;, in order for it to rhyme with an earlier line ending with &quot;tilt&quot;. Several other lines suffer along the way as well.<br />So, if you really want the form retained and you're willing to sacrifice a bit for it, then go for this book. Otherwise, if you want a translation that does justice to Rilke, I would suggest Edward Snow's translations, which do not retain the form, but are elegant and very true to the original German (they are also bilingual). Go for his translation of &quot;New Poems 1907&quot;, which includes most of the good ones from this collection, including Love Song, Pieta, The Panther, and others. Unlike Arndt, Snow is an expert on Rilke, and one quickly learns to appreciate that.	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R30UN0SG35799R	0835714292	721211137	Reading of Eliot's "Four Quartets" (Studies in modern literature)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fabulous - Learn to Appreciate Eliot's Best	I borrowed this book from the library. It is fantastic and opened up my eyes to much of the beauty of Eliot's masterpiece - the Four Quartets. I had already appreciated these poems, but they are notoriously difficult. By focusing on the meter, but combining this with general comments on the Four Quartets, Reibetanz really does us a service. She spends one chapter on discussing how Eliot developed his meter in earlier works, then devotes a chapter to each of the Four Quartets, finishing with a conclusion.<br />The writing throughout is clear and non-technical. Even if you have only a basic understanding of meter and literary criticism, you can read it and enjoy it. And clearly Reibetanz loves the work and knows it well. She goes virtually line by line to elucidate the poem and point out subtle things Eliot is doing. Showing first and foremost how he uses meter to accomplish changes in feel, rhythm, mood, etc., and also drawing parallels to his other work. But she also gives interpretations of the sections, which (even if you don't always agree) are wonderful and will definitely spur you on to have more great thoughts of your own.<br />Highly recommended! How can this be out of print?	2001-01-29
US	49260053	R3EGQ71UTWE2KZ	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Starts off brilliantly, but definitely not for everyone!	Cold Mountain, yet another incredibly                 successful first novel, is a prime example of a book that begins brilliantly, yet still manages to disappoint. For those interested in the South during the Civil War and like to read travel books, this is definitely for you. Others might want to beware.<br />The book follows the story of Inman, a confederate                 soldier in the American Civil War who is sick of fighting and                 decides to hike hundreds of miles back to his home and the                 woman he left behind. The chapters alternate between Inman's                 long and rather uneventful journey and the domestic life of Ada,                 the woman he is returning to, as she struggles to survive on her                 father's farm. Neither of their stories is at all eventful, relating                 mostly to detailed explanations of the flora and fauna of the                 American South, and the entire plot for this 436 page book is                 centred around the suspense of what will happen when our two                 protagonists are at last reunited. Since they did not openly declare                 their love for each other before Inman set off for the war, the                 questions abound: Will she accept him after all these years? Will                 the Home Guard catch him before he reaches her? More                 importantly, by page 390 when it finally happens, will we even                 care? <br />                With such a thin plot and no sub-plots at all, it is an amazing tribute to Frazier's skill                 that he can maintain any interest at all. He could have done it by creating vivid,                 exciting characters for readers to care about. But he didn't. Inman and Ada are about                 as insipid and two-dimensional as it gets, seemingly lifted straight out of a low-budget                 Western film. Neither has the slightest spark of personality (which hintsthat they are                 perfect for each other) and Inman in particular tends to speak in monosyllabic grunts                 (his favourite utterance is the poignant 'No'), whereas Ada chooses not to speak much                 at all. When Inman gets into a fight, he slaughters his many foes with the improbable                 ease and recklessness of Clint Eastwood, but with none of the disdainful panache or                 witty dialogue. <br />                So how does Frazier do it? Are the tens of thousands buying this book simply mad? Not quite.                Frazier's success stems from his meticulous attention to the details of                 setting. From the first page onward, the reader is sucked into the world of the South                 during the Civil War, created by a continual, unrelenting bombardment of details and                 nuance. The voice of narration, the speech of the characters, the vivid descriptions-all                 these create a gripping atmosphere. Inman doesn't say 'Good idea!' but rather things                 like 'I'd say that suggestion has much to recommend it'. The book is indeed 'a sustained flight of                 imagination' as The Daily Telegraph claims, but you have to be willing to suspend your                 disbelief for a really long time. If you love reading about the struggle to survive in                 nature, the Wild West, and don't mind reading endless pages of description with no                 plot movement, then you will relish this book. <br />                Unfortunately, for many, atmospheric prose doesn't stand on its own two                 feet when it comes to writing novels, and endless description can become just plain boring.                 For those without a strong interest in the setting, there is not enough in this book to keep it                 moving; for example, there is almost no humour, there are too few characters, and the                 reader is given verylittle to wonder or worry about besides the central premise (which                 is basically Homeward Bound without the animals). The reader waits in vain for a                 stunning plot twist that never comes; the book is ruthlessly predictable right up to its                 contrived ending. Cold Mountain stands close in my mind to the film The English                 Patient-visually stunning but disappointing in most other respects.	2000-12-07
US	49260053	R6OVV17OKXUPT	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Powerful book - but not everyone will enjoy it.	One of the biggest sensations when it came out, The God of Small Things, Arundhati Roy's first                 novel, is set in her home state of Kerela, India. Sensations breed                 skepticism, especially when a first time author manages to steal                 the coveted Booker Prize, but in this case the book deserves                 much, though certainly not all, of its success, due to its creative                 use of plot, narrative technique, characterization and setting. Its                 themes are multifarious and fascinating: collective and individual                 identity, incest and other taboos about love, state and family                 politics, childhood trauma and loss of innocence, and structural                 determinism. (And even a bit about Oxford thrown in for good                 measure.) There are many characters in this story, and Roy                 balances them well, but at the centre stand the twins Estha and                 Rahel, whose unity is so complete that they experience life as the                 collective entity 'we'. Roy's story (and she tells it as a storyteller,                 using all the techniques at her disposal) is how doom comes on                 the twins and their family, indeed on a whole community, through                 a violation of the Love Laws, which govern                 who is to be loved and how much. <br />                Among other things, The God of Small Things is a scathing critique of this aspect of                 Indian society: what Roy sees as traditions and customs which limit people from                 natural acts of love and then destroy them when they inevitably violate these                 unwritten laws. No individuals are directly to blame for the doom that comes upon                 the characters in this story--the most negative character being simply a pathetic aunt;                 instead, their doom is inevitable and inescapable because of the structural laws that                 enchain society and restrict individual freedom. <br />                The book is powerful and creative, and a source of that power is Roy's strong voice,                 full of conviction and outrage. Ironically, it is this strength which leads to the major                 weaknesses of the book. To maintain a high level of suspense and impress on the                 reader the magnitude of what is happening, Roy resorts to abusive foreshadowing of                 the coming doom (one guesses at what it is about, but it is only revealed towards the                 end of the book) and dramatic capitalization to show that Something Is Really                 Important. (Many argue that this is to emphasize the children's viewpoint, but to this I                 can only say that if so, the style is highly inconsistent, since much of the story is not                 told through a child's viewpoint at all--the final scene is a powerful example; the voice                 throughout is rather that of the the external narrator, i.e. Roy herself). In any case, such techniques are                 unnecessary, and indeed annoying, since her creative manipulation of time in her                 narrative means that she writes around the actual event, giving us snippets of what                 happened after, what happened before, etc., without revealing what it was that actually                 happened. This would have been enough. <br />                Nevertheless, for most people these criticisms will not prove enough to mar an overall                 appreciation of this book, which is in any case no exercise in subtlety. If you can deal                 with Roy's strong voice (and some can't) as well as the occasional hit on the head with                 a sledgehammer, then you will probably enjoy this book, especially if you are interested in the themes of life in the sub-contintent.	2000-12-07
US	49260053	R2I78S765X7005	0226803384	487176059	Systematic Theology, vol. 2: Existence and the Christ	Books	5	51	54	N	N	The 20th c. classic in Protestant liberal theology	Paul Tillich's ~Systematic Theology~ is one of the most important theological works of the 20th century, and the theological system par excellence of liberal Protestant Christianity. In his day, Tillich was held in high esteem not only among theologians, but by experts in many different fields for his incredible breadth of knowledge, his insight into culture, and his humanity.<br />'Liberal Protestantism' sought to reconcile the gospel and the Christian faith with contemporary cultural ideas, rather then set the two up against each other. Religion is, for Tillich, the best of culture. (An alternative view, for example, is that of Karl Barth, who saw the gospel as fundamentally a critique of culture - as the Word speaking from outside ~to~ the world, not within the world). So, for Tillich, there should be signs of God everywhere, not just in Christianity, and religion and culture and closely connected.<br />God, for Tillich, is not therefore the anthropomorphized God of the Old Testament, who has a personality and creates and destroys and judges in an almost arbitrary fashion. Instead, Tillich sees God as 'the ground of being'. God is the very fundament on which rests everything that is. God is the Abyss.<br />The problem with man, for Tillich, is his 'finitude'. Man's life is finite, his body makes him finite, his capacities are finite, yet he craves to transcend these, to be unlimited, to be God. This is impossible; rather one should accept one's finitude courageously. This is what Jesus did singularly and perfectly - he never sinned, because he always accepted the finite nature of his being; he faced death courageously. Tillich's christology is therefore a 'spirit christology' (Jesus was led by the spirit) rather than a 'logos christology' (Jesus was God incarnate, the Word made flesh).<br />The last important thing is that Tillich makes use of his famous 'theory of correlation'. This is how the 3 volumes of his ~Systematic Theology~ are set up. According to thistheory, things in culture are correlated with the theology; theology provides the 'answers' to the 'questions' posed by culture. So his five sections (divided among the 3 volumes) are called: 'Reason and Revelation', 'Being and God', 'Existence and the Christ', 'Life and the Spirit', 'History and the Kingdom of God'.<br />Tillich's writing is for the most part easy enough to read for the layperson - just don't get bothered by particular tricky bits. I would recommend it to anyone interested in theology; it has influenced a generation of theologians.	2000-11-16
US	49260053	R2JRDMJJTYC8LY	0824512219	963836274	The Content of Faith: The Best of Karl Rahner's Theological Writings	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Good Collection of a Great Theologian	Karl Rahner has been perhaps the single most influential Catholic theologian of the 20th century. He has served the Church in numerous ways, but he has also maintained his integrity and acumen in theological writings that are both inspired and inspiring in their beauty.<br />Rahner's theology is a very complicated one, yet he presents it in a beautiful, poetic and devotional way. ~The Content of Faith~ is a collection of some of his most important writings from a long career, and is thus broken up into shorter segments that are easily digestible. This is not a systematic theology. Even the layperson with little interest in theology can sit down and read one of these pieces and be inspired by the beauty of Rahner's vision of God.<br />I am not a Catholic, yet I appreciate Rahner tremendously and would heartily recommend this book to anyone. There are indeed some pretty heavy essays in here, but don't get bogged down by those - there is plenty here for everyone.	2000-11-16
US	49260053	R147SXGCPERJH1	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Would it be too much to say: A 'Perfect' Book?	I first read 'The Remains of the Day' shortly after it came out. Since then, I have re-read it four times and recommended it to a dozen people (buying copies for half of them, so intent was I to share this joy). Each time, whether from re-reading it or discussing it with a friend, I learn something new about the book. For those who have read it, 'Stevens' (the narrator) is as much a real person as Holden Caufield in 'Cather and the Rye' - a friend.<br />First of all, it is a book that almost anyone can enjoy. You don't have to be an intellectual who loves to read 'deep' books (although if you are, you too will love it). The prose is simple enough, and yet also beautiful, and there is plenty of humour. And the plot idea is simple enough - a butler (Stevens) making a road trip across England in the 1950's to his former co-worker, the housekeeper Miss Kenton - whom he once shared some feelings with, albeit on a suppressed level, and whom he would now, at the remains of his day, see once again to see what happens.<br />Yet this book is also profoundly moving. As the story unfolds and we learn from Stevens more and more about his life and history, we become more and more deeply involved with him: his sense of duty, his attention to detail, his ideas about propriety and responsibility. He becomes for us a strange yet wonderful creature, and icon of an earlier age and yet still a mirror of ourselves.<br />From the first few lines to the silently crushing emotional finish, this is a book that casts a spell over the reader time and time again. Read it on the surface and it is beautiful; delve deeper and you can mine levels of meaning on war, human expression and repression, guilt, hope and love. The craftsmanship with which Ishiguro fashioned this masterpiece still amazes me; it is that work of art that goes beyond its craftsman. In my last reading I came across several more symbolic images I had missed earlier - the metaphors that Ishiguro is so fond of, existing on so manylevels. The book itself is a metaphor for life.	2000-11-09
US	49260053	R2BI2EDSFY8N2H	0140159959	628844704	Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius	Books	5	132	136	N	N	With this book, you may find a friend in Wittgenstein	Ray Monk's biography of Wittgenstein has correctly been called 'definitive'. In the introduction he states as his goal the writing of a biography which neglects neither the humanity of the greatest philosopher of the 20th century, nor his philosophical views, complicated though they may be. He succeeds brilliantly. The result is that the reader is treated to two books at once: one on 'the man', and one on his thought.<br />Monk's is a tough job. If you know anything about Wittgenstein, you know he is enigmatic - both in terms of his personality and lifestyle, and also his perplexing, yet genius, philosophical views. Yet Monk presents both in as transparent a manner as is perhaps possible, given the nature of his subject. The book is eminently readable, which makes it length a ~positive~ feature. For example, I read the book a chapter at a time, to savour it. The readability comes in large part through Monk's extensive quotations from Wittgenstein's own diary and letters, and the letters of those who corresponded with him. This means that one is transported back to Wittgenstein's world, instead of reading just the dry prose of a biographer (Monk's own writing, of course, is anything but dry).<br />Most importantly, though, Monk presents Wittgenstein in such a way that many people will be able to befriend this incredible and mysterious man. Wittgenstein was driven by passions - his need to express his thought in a way intelligible and meaningful to others drove him close to suicide on several occasions. He was a man deeply in need of feeling that he was 'understood' - both philosophically and humanly - which were the same for him. (Thus his mentor for a time Bertrand Russell failed on both accounts, as Monk finely illustrates). He loved his friends and detested all things which he considered base. He was a logician who broke down logic, a philosopher who wanted to put an end to much of philosophy, a hermit, a mystic.<br />There is a mystique about Wittgenstein, and rightfully so. Those who read this book will either find him an eccentric, or they will in a way fall in love with this man. Either way, you will walk away with insight into one of the most startling, influential and powerful minds of our time.	2000-11-09
US	49260053	R5CPV2S1RFN2U	0824820282	551285197	Popular Buddhism in Japan: Shin Buddhist Religion and Culture (Latitude 20 Books (Paperback))	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Light book, but provides good documents	Buddhism is one of the major religions in Japan, but it is not the Buddhism one thinks of in India, or that commonly comes to mind in the West. The Japanese religious tradition tends towards Mahayana Buddhism, rather than Theravada. Mahayana, especially in its Japanese forms, such as in Shin Buddhism (Pure Land Sect), actually has remarkable parallels to Christianity, with notions such as hell, an afterlife in a paradise-like realm, sin and salvation. Andreasen concentrates on this sect of Shin Buddhism, rather than Zen Buddhism or Theravada.<br />In this book, Andreasen's treatment of Japanese Buddhism is rather light. He does not delve into the details and complexities of his subject, nor does he attempt analysis. However, what he has done very well in this book is bring together a large number of documents which are very enlightening (sorry) for the reader and eminently readable. Andreasen's own writing is easy to understand and clear, if not deep.<br />For the collection of documents, it is a book worth looking into. But for a much more detailed and exhaustive look at Mahayana Buddhism, I would recommend looking at Paul Williams book 'Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations'.	2000-11-07
US	49260053	R2WT8NWWWYAPEA	0195054555	995206718	Mysticism and Language	Books	5	6	7	N	N	How do we use language to express the inexpressible?	It is hard to imagine studying mysticism without looking seriously at language. The state of unity with the divine is impossible to adequately describe in language; just as it transcends the mystic, it transcends his or her language. And yet, the need to express that mystical state, share it with others, leads to expression in language, and hence we have mystical texts.<br />By the same token, studies of language should look to mysticism as that place where language breaks down and ceases to function according to the normal rules governing it. Katz's book is an excellent place to start in this enquiry. The collection is an excellent one, each one worth studying. I recommend especially Katz's own contribution &quot;Mystical Speech and Mystical Meaning,&quot;, which looks at kataphatic language of mystics, and Katz's headings of &quot;language as transformational&quot;, &quot;language as sacred&quot;, &quot;language as power&quot; and &quot;language as information&quot;. Also to recommend is Bimal Krishna Matilal's &quot;Mysticism and Ineffability: Some Issues of Logic and Language&quot;.<br />How can we express the inexpressible? The question may prompt you to make a mystical turn yourself.	2000-11-07
US	49260053	R2QA25BLSQN467	0801858178	975553070	The Language of the Self: The Function of Language in Psychoanalysis	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Master Speaks	'All speech is demand, the demand for love.'<br />Jacques Lacan was much more than a psychoanalyst. In his investigations of language and his twenty year long seminar in France, he explored a realm of topics interesting to scholars in a variety of fields: sexuality, language, the self, the unconscious. Probably his most groundbreaking work - partially contained in this volume - concerns the importance of language as expressing our desire, our need for love - a desire, by the way, that can never be fulfilled and results in pain and frustration.<br />Anthony Wilden provides a decent translation, but all translations of Lacan's work - like the writings of Derrida - face a very difficult task. Highly recommended...	2000-11-07
US	49260053	R30SI3444JPA8Y	0231048076	220647558	Desire in Language: A Semiotic Approach to Literature and Art	Books	4	41	47	N	N	Beyond Lacan and Freud: Language and Psychoanalysis	In this book Kristeva takes on the issues of language and psychoanalysis, expanding upon Lacan's views on desire and language. (Lacan said: All speech is demand, the demand for love). Kristeva is considered a genius in her field, and highly respected in France (where all this work goes on nowadays). Here she is presented in translation so that the English-reading world can enjoy her work.<br />The interest in such theories of language, semiotics, post-structuralism and psychoanalysis is slim in the English speaking world, and this is unfortunate. Not enough scholars of language look to Lacan and Kristeva, but they should. The text is difficult, and even more so in translation, but it is worth struggling through. However, for the reader with little background in the subject matter, penetrating Kristeva's work may be almost impossible without guidance.<br />This book is subtitled 'a semiotic approach to literature and art'. What Kristeva does is apply her theories to the area of aesthetics, especially her specialty area of the novel. Unfortunately, her studies are naturally based on the French novel (19th century), so readers unfamiliar with novellists such as Mallarme might have a problem following this aspect of her work.	2000-11-06
US	49260053	R3TV8V0MDWTWFQ	0674000617	243381332	Memory, Brain, and Belief (Mind/Brain/Behavior Initiative)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great Job Daniel!	Daniel Schacter, the expert on memory and the brain and professor at Harvard University, has once again delivered a fascinating volume on the important subject of memory, the brain and belief.<br />The book is divided into three parts, illustrating its interdisciplinary approach. Part I: Cognitive, Neurological and Pathological Perspectives. Part II: Conscious and Nonconscious Aspects of Memory and Belief: From Social Judgments to Brain Mechanisms. Part II: Memory and Belief in Autobiographical Recall and Autobiography.<br />The last is of particular interest to the non-scientist interested in ideas of 'self' and the construction of autobiography. The articles in part III include: 'Constructing and Appraising Past Selves' (by Michael Ross and Anne Wilson), 'Memory and Belief in Development' (by Katherine Nelson), 'Autobiography, Identity and the Fictions of Memory' (by Paul John Eakin), and 'Autobiography as Moral Battleground' (by Sissela Bok). There is a conclusion written by Antonio Damasio.<br />The issue of memory, false memory, autobiography and the self are critical for subjects such as anthropology, sociology, philosophy, history and theology, yet too often thses subjects in the social sciences and humanities completely ignore the findings and theories of science. Here, they are brought together in a format eminently readable to the non-specialist. As this process continues, led by innovative minds such as Schacter, there will no longer be any excuse for scholars to shame themselves in their ignorance.	2000-11-06
US	49260053	R2G49JNUEDKXCH	0631218513	676584116	A Companion to Cognitive Science	Books	2	15	21	N	N	A Massive Book on a Massive Subject	Cognitive Science is a large and relatively new field. Its subject is how the mind works, using the tools and methods of science. In its early days in the 50's and 60's it dealt primarily with discussions of artificial intelligence, and could safely said to have concerned itself with a host of issues that today seem rather boring and out-of-date. Yet in the past two decades it has experienced a flourishing, brought to the foreground especially by the writings of popular figures such as Steven Pinker of MIT on language and others on neural networks.<br />This volume is massive, but it has to cover a lot of ground, since cognitive science is now an interdisciplinary field with a vast array of topics. The volume starts with an introduction and historical overview of cognitive science, which takes up 100 pages. This is an interesting introduction.<br />Unfortunately the remaining portion of this large volume is unsuited for the beginner. The various areas of cognitive science are treated, each in a separate article. This includes AI, neuroscience, language models, and so on, each in a rather short piece (sometimes 7-8 pages) written by an expert on that subject (including figures such as Terrence Deacon, of 'The Symbolic Species', who has an article consisting mainly of rather perplexing diagrams).<br />The vast range of subjects and the articles' short length does not make for the best combination. What suffers is readability and usability. It is hard to imagine what purpose exactly this volume could serve. The uninitiated will find it almost impossible to jump into - for it is certainly not an introduction, and the articles presume a decent background in the subject matter - whereas the serious student of cognitive science will almost certainly want more meat to chew on in order to get the theories and findings of the respective scientists and fields presented. All this is complicated by the fact that these theories are for the most part very recent and constantly undergoing change, which means that this book could be out of date very shortly (although the earlier, more historical sections on AI and the early days of cognitive science will remain interesting).<br />In summary: an ambitious work, attractively laid out, but not terribly useful for most, I would imagine.	2000-11-05
US	49260053	RJDRTTGUY1YJH	0520208846	172035809	The Sacred Self: A Cultural Phenomenology of Charismatic Healing	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An excellent book on many religious &amp; philosophical themes	Csordas (pronounced CHOR-das) is an anthropologist who has followed the development of the Christian 'Charismatic Renewal' for 20 years, and draws on his study of this movement and its notions of healing for this book. He seeks to understand how religious healing might work, and to this end he presents a philosophical investigation of the self, how it is perceived, constituted, reshaped. Along with the central issue of religious healing, he deals with a host of fascinating topics such as the mind-body relationship, ritual, demonic possession, religious experience, the rhetoric and semiotics of religious language, psychiatry, and mental and physical illness.<br />Csordas's method, which he calls 'cross-cultural phenomenology' is both philosophical and anthropological. He includes theoretical discussions as well as ethnography and evidence. Moreover, he is intelligent, broad-minded, and strives to be fair in his analyses. For this reason, readers with diverse interests are bound to find this an intriguing and useful read. This is an important book for several fields and deserves to be read widely. At the same time, it is a well-written and enjoyably readable book.   The chapters are titled as follows: 1: Introduction, 2: Ritual Healing, 3: Therapeutic Process and Experience, 4: Emboied Imagery and Divine Revelation, 5: Imaginal Performance and Healing of Memories, 6: Image, Memory and Efficacy, 7: Demons and Deliverance, 8: Encounters with Evil, 9: The Raging and the Healing, 10: Envoi: The Sacred Self.	2000-11-05
US	49260053	R33JRDKNW1DC63	0674566769	276656023	Memory Distortion: How Minds, Brains, and Societies Reconstruct the Past	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good Interdisciplinary Look at Memory Breakdown	Memory is a central issue for so much of human life - whether it be questions of identity, autobiography, or belief. In this volume, edited by the expert on memory and belief Daniel Schacter of Harvard, we have an innovative interdisciplinary examination into the question of memory, why it fails, and what happens when it does.<br />The volume is divided into the following sections by discpline: 1) Cognitive Perspectives, 2) Psychiatric and Psychopathological Perspectives, 3) Neurophyschological Perspectives, 4) Neurobiological Perspectives, 5) Sociocultural Perspectives, 6)Concluding Reflections.<br />The articles, each by a different contributor, are not the easiest to jump into, especially for those without a scientific background. In fact, the overall emphasis is very much on science with the social sciences rather underrepresented (in my opinion). This is the reason why I give it 4 stars instead of 5. However, those with a scientific inclination, yet also philosophical or social science inclinations towards questions of identity, autobiography, belief and fantasy will find this book of great interest. I would advise you to also look at the much more recent volume (2000) by Schacter entitled 'Memory, the Brain and Belief', which may in fact be more up to date.	2000-11-05
US	49260053	R1T4W4J62GJGXS	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Subtle, Moving Masterpiece	I cannot recommend this book highly enough. The reviewers below have summarized the basic elements, so let me concentrate on style. If you enjoy books that do not have to be big on plot or action, but are instead beautifully crafted, realistic depictions of the profundities of life, with a strong atmospheric sense, then I am sure you will enjoy this subtle work. It is very short and easy to read, with the terse, clear style that made Ishiguro famous. Japanese readers will find the dialogue and characters and setting to be completely believable -- despite the fact that Ishiguro never went back to Japan before writing this novel (he grew up in England). Yet many people finish this book without really having grasped much of its essence.<br />The difficulty lies in drawing connections between events, characters and symbols. Some of them are interrelated within the work, others draw upon outside references (such as the symbolism of crossing the river being a metaphor for death, like the river Styx). This book is simply written enough to be enjoyed the first time, and yet complex enough to be read another two times. The remarkable thing is that when re-read (or read the first time, with an eye on grasping the symbolism and motifs) this book is actually not only a tragic tale, but a terrifying and disturbing one in its dark images of death, neglect and loss.<br />Readers of Ishiguro's other books may find this closest in style to &quot;Artist of the Floating World&quot;, yet farthest from &quot;The Unconsoled&quot;. In style, Ishiguro mastered this particular technique in &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;, which is also a book about loss, but with a romantic twist thrown in, and far less troubling that this earlier work. Read this book, and if it doesn't touch something in you - read it again.	2000-11-02
US	49260053	R3DW7BEYI5BAQW	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	75	84	N	N	Written by a Master; but not a Masterpiece	After five years, Ishiguro has as last produced a new novel. The protagonist is Christopher Banks, an English detective who moves through the elite of London society, enjoying much respect. Through flashbacks, however, we learn that Christopher's past is a most unusual one. As a boy he grew up in the International Settlement in interwar Shanghai, where his father worked for a British trading company, complicit in importing opium to China, and his mother was a morally upstanding lady who abhorred the opium trade. There, Christopher led a rather sheltered existence with his Japanese playmate Akira.<br />When his father disappears, the two children begin to play a different game -- that of being detectives who will root out the evil forces and rescue Christopher's father. When Christopher's mother also disappears, the boy's world completely falls apart. Having lost both parents, he must also leave Shanghai and his friend to return to England and be raised by an aunt. <br />Thus the narrative jumps between the present -- Christopher as an adult detective in postwar London -- and his past as a child in Shanghai. When Christopher decides to return to Shanghai after so many years to search for his parents, the true story begins and the adventure is as much psychological as physical. After so long, will he discover his parents -- or himself? <br />Ishiguro's novels have been described by the term 'unreliable narrator', in that the reader must struggle to discern the narrative from 'the truth', as the narrators are constantly engaged in repressing their memories and self-deception. In an interview, he rejected this interpretation of his latest work, describing it instead as a 'postmodern' work. He has tried to depict reality not only as it appears - but as it is - to the confused and troubled narrator. Yet it is questionable to what extent he succeeds - and many may finish the book troubled by its simplistic denouement.<br />The first half of the book (while Banks is in London) is slow, but the pace picks up in the second half, where Ishiguro begins to employ more readily his favourite brand of symbolism, such as the repeated imagery of looking through glass with distorted vision that then comes into focus. Unfortunately, humor -- so important in Remains and The Unconsoled -- is strangely absent from Orphans. I didn't so much as chuckle until page 213. <br />Thematically, 'Orphans' borrows much from 'The Unconsoled' -- the obsession with one's parents, the narrator's 'powers', the surrealist situations, the problem of differentiating between reality and delusion. Unfortunately, themes aren't all that's borrowed. Ishiguro also reuses several images taken directly from 'The Unconsoled', which makes one almost feel like he is plagiarizing his own work. Even worse, these images (such as the barrier blocking the protagonist's way), which were strong in 'The Unconsoled' seem watered down and trite in 'Orphans'.<br />In general, the style of 'Orphans' does not reveal the same attention to detail and smoothness characteristic of Ishiguro's first four novels, which made them all -- in their own way -- masterpieces. The characterization is very poor; all the main characters seem cardboard -- an utter contrast from 'Remains of the Day'. The disappointing style is somewhat tempered by the compelling theme. As before, it is a question of identity, but this time the painful struggle for identity made by those who have been orphaned.<br />Readers will find this book thought-provoking, but it is not up to Ishiguro's high standards, and ultimately it is unsatisfying. Concerned about the number of people who couldn't read or understand 'The Unconsoled', it seems Ishiguro has adopted a strategy of 'dumbing down' to his audience. This is unfortunate. To see Ishiguro at his best, I would suggest 'Remains of the Day' or 'The Unconsoled', and I would suggest reading them twice - at least - to see how carefully and masterfully he writes.	2000-11-01
US	49260053	R2UQW9ZK94BWRJ	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Enjoy a challenging read? Funny, profound, difficult.	In The Remains of the Day Ishiguro perfected                 the writing style he had begun in his first two books, and after its                 success he proclaimed his desire to write something different,                 'rougher'. The Unconsoled is the product of five years' work by this                 acclaimed writer, and 'rough' -- as in difficult -- is indeed a word                 that might be used to describe it. <br />                First of all, it is a massive book. Secondly, it has no plot. Thirdly,                 it doesn't make any sense. Huh? <br />                If you've read Kafka (especially The Castle) the solution to this riddle will be easy to                 explain: The Unconsoled is a modern-day Kafka-esque dream-world social commentary                 on the individual and society. As with Kafka, the theme is alientation of the individual                 from society, others, and himself. Ishiguro delves into the question of why we are                 often so incapable when it comes to interacting with the people we care most about.                 In the words of a song from the musical Chess the theme is: 'How can I love you so                 much, yet make no move?' Ishiguro's cast is comprised of parents and children,                 husbands and wives, who because of their own human weakness find it almost                 impossible to say the simplest of things, or make the simplest of actions, and thereby                 allow their relationships to deteriorate -- slowly, frustratingly, continuously. <br />                The setting is an unspecified central European city in decline, whose citizens view the                 protagonist, the famous pianist Charles Ryder, as a kind of saviour who will revive                 their city's fortunes. But of course, no external solution is possible, and Ryder must                 fail, even as he watches his own personal life crumbling before his inactivity.                 Neglecting his wife and son, he is mindlessly self-centred, interested only in achieving                 self-validation by having his parents attend one of his concerts so they can see him                 perform before he loses his skills. Despite the fact that they never come, he makes                 preparations for their arrival and retains a futile hope that can only be called pathetic. <br />                Fortunately (since there is no plot), Ishiguro combines his powerful message with                 stunning dream-like imagery and a good dose of side-splitting humour. Ishiguro has                 an incredible sense of the absurd (as readers of The Remains of the Day will well know)                 and he places Ryder in the most agonizing and embarassing of situations, to which we                 all can easily relate. This humour is welcome in what is a hard and rather depressing,                 yet immensely well-written and powerful, book. If you can handle a struggle, or (better                 yet) enjoy being challenged, The Unconsoled is masterful modern literature, well worth                 the read.	2000-11-01
US	49260053	RZL77YQH2D32J	1855064901	462604311	The Danger of Words: And Writings on Wittgenstein (Wittgenstein Studies)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A classic; should be reprinted	Drury's work is a classic. It includes discussions of issues in psychiatry and religion by a friend of Ludwig Wittgenstein's, the great philosopher whose works &quot;Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus&quot; and &quot;Philosophical Investigations&quot; remain controversial and highly influential today in philosophy -- especially analytical philosophy, (the late) logical positivism, and the philosophy of language. Students interested in any of these fields will also benefit from Drury's work, and it can especially recommended to those who enjoy Wittgenstein's own writing, or who are interested in how it might be applied to issues such as psychiatry and religion.	2000-11-01
US	49260053	RS9DXMWAR57J5	0374521468	603272129	Elements of Semiology	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A terse, dense book on struggling with symbols	Semiology had its birth with Saussure and the publication of his lecture notes by students in 1916, entitled Course in General Linguistics. Semiology was to be a general science of signs, of which linguistics would be one part. However, over time it has become clear that there exist no complex systems of symbols completely removed from language. Semioticians have recognized, then, that &quot;linguistics is not a part of the general science of signs, but rather it is semiology which is a part of linguistics&quot;.<br />In this clearly written work, Barthes thus undertakes this task of semiolgy, under four main headings borrowed from structural anthropology (Claude Levi-Strauss) and clearly reliant on Saussure:<br />I. Language and Speech. (Saussure's langue and parole) II. Signified and Signifier.  III. Syntagm and System.  IV. Denotation and Connotation. <br />This book is written in a dense and terse style, and dates from 1964. For an introductory text, therefore, I would suggest instead Umberto Eco's &quot;Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language&quot;. Yet for those who are set on studying Barthes, a very important figure in this field, then this book can be recommended.	2000-10-27
US	49260053	R2TOFN30MKV5OM	0253202175	58785893	A Theory of Semiotics (Advances in Semiotics)	Books	5	94	96	N	N	Symbols: Development of a Methodology of Communication	The Italian Umberto Eco is a towering figure. A literary critic, novelist, and semiotician (studying symbols and symbol systems), he gained international recognition with &quot;The Name of the Rose&quot; (1980) in which he brought the study of semiotics to fiction. In this book, &quot;Theory of Semiotics&quot;, he makes his contribution to the theoretical study of signs encompassing all cultural phenomena. His focus is on the development of a methodology of communication. <br />Like Roland Barthes, Eco starts from the foundations of semiotics  in Saussure (Course in General Linguistics: who developed the idea of sign-systems and the sign/signified distinction, as well as the distinction between langue/parole - language and speech) and Claude Levi-Strauss (Structural Anthropology). Yet Eco surpasses this tradition to move into new territory, recognizing the limits to structuralism and Saussure's ideas. He recognizes, for example, that meaning is not merely governed by structure, but also interactively constructed by the reader/interpreter, who often inserts or fills-in missing meaning to construct a coherent picture.<br />Those interested in an introductory work to this fascinating field should be pointed to Eco's work &quot;Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language&quot; which is easier to start with.	2000-10-27
US	49260053	R20A4XCHGJ2CGZ	025320318X	113998193	The Role of the Reader: Explorations in the Semiotics of Texts (Advances in Semiotics)	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Another contribution to semiotics from the master	The Italian Umberto Eco is a literary critic, novelist, and semiotician (studying symbols and symbol systems).<br />His introductory work to this fascinating field is &quot;Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language&quot; which is easier to start with. In &quot;Theory of Semiotics&quot; he presents his views. In his novel &quot;The Name of the Rose&quot; (1980) he brings the study of semiotics to fiction.<br />In this book, Eco sets out to illustrate how the reader engages in constructing meaning when reading texts. Like Roland Barthes and others in the field of semiotics (which is the study of symbols in culture), Eco draws upon Ferdinand de Saussure (Course in General Linguistics) and Claude Levi-Strauss (Structural Anthropology). Yet Eco recognizes that meaning is not merely governed by structure, but also interactively constructed by the reader/interpreter, who often inserts or fills-in missing meaning to construct a coherent picture.<br />Readers interested in questions of meaning, the philosophy of language, signs and symbols will find this a fascinating work. Although the subject matter is challenging, Eco's style is clear - he is a masterful writer.	2000-10-27
US	49260053	R2A1PWQCO5RHR9	0415150205	688861828	Key Debates in Anthropology (Management of Innovation and Change)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fascinating read on the essence of anthropology	What is anthropology? What is society, culture, language - and how are they related?<br />In this volume, edited by the intrepid Tim Ingold, we find these issues and others debated by some of the leading anthropologists in Britain. The fact that the format is a debate, and not merely the prosaic monologue of one author after another that one usually finds in an edited volume, means that the book engages the reader on a direct level, and that the volume inevitably raises more questions than it answers - and that is as it should be.<br />The debates are: 1. Social Anthropology is a Generalizing Science or it is Nothing. (Participants: Keith Hart and Anthony Good for, Anthony Cohen and Judith Okely against). 2. The Concept of Society is Theoretically Obsolete (Marilyn Strathern and Christina Toren for, J D Y Peel and Jonathan Spencer against). 3. Human Worlds are Culturally Constructed (Wendy James and Roland Littlewood for, Tim Ingold and Paul Richards against). 4. Language is the Essence of Culture (David Parkin and Brian Moeran for, Alfred Gell and James Weiner against). 5. The Past Is a Foreign Country (David Lowenthal and Penelope Harvey for, Gillian Feeley-Harnik and Susanne Kuchler against). 6. Aesthetics is a cross-cultural Category (Howard Morphy and Jeremy Coote for, Joanna Overing and Peter Gow against).<br />In each case, an concise and interesting introduction is provided by Tim Ingold.<br />As the topics show, these are indeed 'key' debates. The debaters take into account the recent scholarship on their topics both within and outside anthropology, making the debates interesting for non-anthropologists as well.<br />I would recommend this book most highly to all students of anthropology, interested laypersons, or those involved in sociology, linguistics, and religious and cultural studies.	2000-10-12
US	49260053	R2NTIUBYCZ7TQ6	0631154329	994979827	The Anthropology of Evil	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Excellent Contribution From David Parkin	Prof David Parkin (Prof of Anthropology, University of Oxford) once again displays his incredibly broad range of interests and impressive erudition in this edited volume, a cross-cultural anthropological examination of 'evil'.<br />Parkin's introduction is more than that, since he draws broadly on past scholarship and the contributions in this volume to investigate historically and cross culturally the notion of 'evil'. Rightly, he and the other contributors do not shy from theology. Thus, Mark Hobart's chapter is entitled 'Is God Evil?',  and Donald Taylor's examination of evil in the Hebrew context is entitled 'Theological thoughts about evil'. Other contributions include, among others: 'Buddhism and evil' (Martin Southwold), 'Confucian confusion' (Brian Moeran), Parkin's own contribution on Muslims and non-Muslims Kenya.<br />This is an important work on the subject, not diminished in value by its age (about 15 years) and worthy of consideration by religious studies scholars and culturally conscious theologians. It represents good anthropology, i.e. that which looks beyond the sometimes too narrow confines of the discipline to broader topics such as this.	2000-10-12
US	49260053	RD0SCWYVRUAQM	0262621142	20649473	Readings in the Philosophy of Language	Books	5	12	17	N	N	One of the best compendiums in the subject	Peter Ludlow has also edited a volume on the Philosophy of Mind, and has written a book on Semantics. In this volume, he offers perhaps the best single volume compendium on this difficult subject. Note that this is for serious students and is hardly a beginner's introduction to the field. However, as a companion to a course on philosophy of language, or for more serious students, it should be quite valuable.    The analytic philosophical approach could be complemented by more material from continental schools of thought on language. If you are interested in that, I would suggest looking elsewhere for some supplementary material.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	R3TKXVMJMJCT9C	0863162665	557925187	The Body for Beginners	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fun Introduction to an Important Theoretical Issue	The question of the body and embodiment has become a central issue in 20th century philosophy, and will doubtless continue to occupy thinkers in the years to come. From the phenomenological school (Merleau-Ponty) to current issues in cognitive science (Lakoff and Johnson's Philosophy in the Flesh), we are wrestling with the question: what does it mean for us to be embodied, and how must this affect our view of reality and what we can say about reality and ourselves?<br />Since Descartes, Western thought has struggled under the illusion that the mind can be separated from the body: that the two exist somehow in different and distinct spheres: one involving pure reason, the other involving corporeality, flesh, embodiment. But increasingly we are realizing that our embodiment affects our thought, and to think about 'pure reason' is often a distorting abstraction. An increasing awareness of Eastern thought - which does not make this body/mind distinction - broadens our (those of us in the West) thinking and forces us to question long-held assumptions. This is being increasingly realized in the fields of sociology, psychology, cognitive science, philosophy and anthropology.<br />All this is dealt with in a funny and easy to read way in Cavallaro's book. It is a subject that too few people know about, yet it affects everything we do: from philosophy, to art, to society. For those who then want something meatier, I suggest the above works: Maurice Merleau-Ponty's &quot;Phenomenology of Perception&quot;, Lakoff and Johnson's &quot;Philosophy in the Flesh&quot;, the journal &quot;Body and Society&quot; and the book by the same name edited by Bryan Turner and Mike Featherstone.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	RBK2WWIA1770O	0800625692	304167474	Beyond Charity	Books	3	15	15	N	N	A useful resource on a rather specific topic	Carter Lindberg, Professor of Church History at Boston University School of Theology, and specialist on the Reformation, offers here a piece of scholarship that will be the definitive work on reformation initatives in handling the problem of poverty, at least from a Lutheran perspective.<br />Lindberg's book is divided into two sections: (1) a historical presentation of reformation initiatives for the poor; (2) a collection of a dozen primary sources related to this subject.  Firstly, the historical presentation, which covers the first 160 odd pages of the book, shows impressive erudition with an incredible wealth of footnotes (perhaps excessive) numbering almost two hundred per chapter. Lindberg's writing is not terribly engaging and will not likely win new fans for reformation history studies, but for the medieval historian, or the layperson who is already interested in this subject, this is tolerable. Certainly the writing is clear enough, and Lindberg first points out the historiographical context in which he is engaging before chronicling the reformation initiatives for the poor. <br />His point is that policy concerning the poor was in fact (and contrary to other scholars' views) affected by theological concerns, most notably a change from medieval notions of earning up salvation through almsgiving, towards the idea (re-introduced by Luther) that salvation cannot be obtained that way, and that rather giving is the natural duty of the Christian arising out of the state of forgiveness and salvation by grace through faith. He gives ample evidence to support his claims, drawn to a large part from documents which he includes in the second half of his book. Thus his argument should be taken into account by social historians who might want to downplay the importance of theology and individuals like Luther.<br />More entertaining than Lindberg's narrative are the primary sources contained in the second half. These are: 1. Canon Law (post-1140), 2. Jacques de Vitry, asermon illustration, 3. John Hus &quot;On Charity Trusts&quot;, 4. Johann Geiler of Kaysersberg &quot;Concerning Begging&quot;, 5. Nuremberg Begging Order of 1478, 6. A Forward by Martin Luther, 7. Erasmus &quot;Beggar Talk&quot;, 8. Andreas Bodenstein &quot;There Should Be No Beggars Among Christians&quot;, 9. Martin Luther &quot;Clergy Should Preach Against Usury&quot;, 10. &quot;Concerning the Common Chest of Schwabach&quot;, 11. Order of Wittenberg (1522), 12. Poor Order of Ypres (1525).<br />The book also contains a bibliography, and the footnotes should provide additional reading for the serious scholar.<br />In summary, a very useful and necessary book for anyone interested in the subject, especially given the controversy surrounding religion-based social work even today, but not light reading or introductory material for those unfamiliar with the field.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	R3PGHFF4JKVE99	0631172769	664338555	Literary Theory: A Practical Introduction	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Fascinating and readable introduction to 'theory'	Increasingly, movement towards interdisciplinary study and the cross-over of knowledge across disciplines is allowing for a rise in viewing 'theory' or 'theories' as a whole. A look at the various theories that Ryan deals with in his introduction illustrates this point: Marxism, Feminism, Postmodernism, Deconstruction - these are not merely 'literary' theories, but offer insights into (and critiques of) broader areas: language, society, history, knowledge and reality, the human condition and meaning. This means that the student of literary criticism gains knowledge that not only relates to how to read books and interpret texts, but on general theories that pertain to human action and social interaction.<br />Keeping this in mind, Ryan's book can be an introduction into different ways of looking at the world, one that might open up new avenues for thinkers in many different areas, even if literary criticism is not your primary interest. Actually, this work was highly recommended to me by an esteemed historian friend, and my own background is in history and theology, not literature.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	R24VXQVT866HEB	0415172101	192207047	The East Asian Welfare Model: Welfare Orientalism and the State (Esrc Pacific Asia Programme)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Much needed scholarship in English	Much has been written about East Asian economies and states, and much of it without a solid basis in scholarship and critical investigation of the subject matter being discussed. This book marks an important foray into that terra incognita, in that it is a work written in English by established scholars, and therefore not only informative but - more importantly - well informed, and hence reliable. <br />By engaging in a comparative study of East Asian states and their welfare systems, looking at diverse elements such as pension plans and services such as housing, health care, etc., the contributors to this volume look not only to the past and present, but also out into the years to come. The volume is aptly edited by Roger Goodman, lecturer in anthropology and expert on Japan at the Nissan Institute, Oxford University, and fellow of St. Antony's College, Oxford. For those who are not already well acquainted with the East Asian states covered, and who would like to read in English, this is a good recommendation.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	R2RCTNAUAMLICP	0198278977	177837421	Japan's "International Youth": The Emergence of a New Class of Schoolchildren (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An important book by the expert on this subject	Roger Goodman, a lecturer in anthropology at St. Antony's College, Oxford, is the principal expert writing in English on children in Japan.<br />Goodman admirably documents the  emergence of the kikokushijo in the social,  cultural, and economic dynamics of post-war  Japan. It is a fascinating story and it is  apparent that Goodman has reviewed an  impressive body of literature. It marks an excellent  contribution not only to the field of Japanese  studies but also to anthropology with its  increasing interest in areas of urban  modernization and industrialized  capitalism.<br />See also Goodman's most recent book, 'Children of the Japanese State', an attractive book also published by OUP, which looks at Japanese children raised by state institutions in Japan, and will clearly be the definitive work on the subject.	2000-10-11
US	49260053	RNMN4BY83I089	0262710080	484135990	Rhyme and Reason: An Introduction to Minimalist Syntax	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Enjoyable dialogue-style intro. to Chomskyan linguistics	Written entirely in a dialogue-style (like Plato's Socratic dialogues), the authors provide an engaging and entertaining introduction to the 'minimalist agenda' laid out by Noam Chomsky. This book can be edifying for linguists and non-linguists alike; where the latter may get confused, diagrams and explanations are provided along the pages' margins.<br />The dialogue takes place between the Linguist (L) and the Other (O), the linguist being the Chomskyan 'expert' and the Other being the interested non-linguist, who is obviously highly intelligent and speaks several languages, but doesn't know much about linguistics or how language works. Thus, as L tries to explain language, O asks questions, gets upset, cracks jokes, etc.<br />This makes for enjoyable reading, and a good introduction to a very complicated subject, even if (like me) you don't agree with the Chomskyans. However, the book is very long and at times taxing. If you are looking for a lighter (but perhaps less satisfying) read, turn to Steven Pinker's the 'Language Instinct.' But better yet, to even out the picture, include a non-Chomskyan account of language in your syllabus.	2000-10-09
US	49260053	RRKT8JL2FTPDZ	0631213260	72931241	A Companion to the Philosophy of Language	Books	4	41	41	N	N	A good, serious companion, not an introduction	The editors state in their Preface that this Companion is 'intended as a guide for a more ambitious and determined explorer', and we can believe them. This book is not encyclopaedic; it does not provide dictionary-like entries that are short and sweet on the various topics and terms one might come across in the study of language. Rather, it provides 25 serious, yet readable articles on various topics in the Phil. of Language.<br />These chapters are divided up into 3 sections: Meaning and Theories of Meaning; Language, Truth and Reality; and Reference, Identity and Necessity. The contributors are all scholars in the field, but mainly British (I believe 9 out of the 23 come from American universities; 4 out of the 23 come from Oxford alone). What is good is that they do not intend introductory essays into the various fields (pragmatics, intention, meaning, verification, etc) but take up their respective positions and argue them.<br />For this reason, the book is of value to those students interested in the study of this subject and willing to immerse themselves, but who are not yet 'experts' in the field. For those who are just starting out, it is not an appropriate introductory work.	2000-10-09
US	49260053	R1BUJUNEJ7LPM1	0521369185	467715500	The Languages of Japan (Cambridge Language Surveys)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Necessary Reading to Correct False Views on Language	Linguists (especially English-speaking ones) would do well to look to the Japanese language and test their theories against it *first* before making o'erhasty generalizations about language. I turned to this book after reading Anna Wierzbicka's work on 'semantic universals' and found that it validated my ideas that there is no exact equivalent in the Japanese language for the English word 'you' (or 'Du' in German, 'tu' in French, etc.). However, Shibatani's work is enjoyable and very informative. Non-linguists can (I think) understand it without much difficulty, and students of Japanese (as well as native speakers!) may enjoy his overview of the history and development of the language. He also goes out of his way to disprove certain 'myths' about Japanese. Plus it has a bibliography of works in both Japanese and English.<br />I sincerely hope more books of this kind will emerge.	2000-10-08
