US	49269744	R2S9OAQL0PMZZY	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Getting Older!!!	News Flash:  John Grisham, like all of us, is Getting Older. <br />And, like all of us who are getting older, his priorities are changing. If you've read his earlier books (and I'm sure you have), he has always hinted that the pace of modern life, especially an attorneys, is conducted at breakneck speed: work, work, work, deals, deals, deals, money, money, money, sex, sex, sex. These are the priorities of many twentysomething attorneys, and his protagonists are no different. <br />But, after fifteen years of writing about these characters, maybe he's realized that it's time for one of his protagonists to do something different, as, indeed an older person would do: stop and smell the roses.  <br />Joel Backman is a highpowered Washington attorney and power broker (not stockbroker) who tries to sell a multimillion dollar satellite system to the highest bidding country. He runs afoul of the law, gets several people killed, pleads guilty, and is imprisoned for a number of years. He is granted an early pardon by the lame duck president, and is packed off by the CIA to Italy, ostensibly for the purpose of protecting him, but in reality to make him an easy target for enemies who want revenge. <br />So far, this sounds like the plot to a classic Grisham tale. However, as I have noted earlier, Grisham himself is getting older, and his protagonist is now 52 and has just spent six years in prison. Backman is a smart man, and he figures out that the CIA has dumped him in Italy to get rid of him. So, while pondering his next move, he sits tight, studies the language with a tutor, enjoys good food and wine at the local cafes, meets a sympathetic professor and a potential love interest, and bides his time until he can figure out how to stay one step ahead of his assailants. This middle portion of The Broker is slow and easy, as relaxing as good coffee and companionship. One cannot imagine Mitch McDeere, workaholic protagonist of The Firm, \\"wasting\\" his time in this manner, but remember Backman is 52, not 24. He realizes that time can be an ally at this point, the better to familiarize himself with Italy: the cities, the language, the people, and, most important, the passageways and back alleys so that he can one day soon slip away and make his escape. The action picks up in the last third of the novel with a typical Grisham climactic chase and a hilarious news conference with a skeptical (but still willing) reporter.  <br />Bottom line: If you basically want a novel that merely  replicates the nonstop action of The Firm or A Time To Kill, then don't buy this book. But if you want a first-rate read with many of the same good qualities as earlier Grisham books, plus an excellent, slower-paced midsection where the hero (and the reader) learn to enjoy the simple pleasures of life, particularly as lived in a timeless nation like Italy, then you may want to give The Broker a try. For, although some of us don't like to admit it, we are all getting older and there are beds of roses and everyday joys aplenty to be savored.	2005-03-28
US	49269744	R90XX12Z3B42O	0393325709	379898487	The Cruelest Miles: The Heroic Story of Dogs and Men in a Race Against an Epidemic	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Balto or Togo??? Answer: All the Dogs & Their Drivers!!!	In New York's Central Park, there stands a statue of a dog named Balto, one of the canine heroes whose story is told in this wonderful book. In 1925, the town of Nome, Alaska, was gripped by a diptheria epidemic, and only timely intervention by a series of heroic dogs and their drivers saved the population from almost certain extinction. Viewed from the perspective of a lower-48-states citizen of 2005, we may wonder what's the big deal? What about vaccinations?  Well, as the authors make abundantly clear in their well-researched work, mandatory DPT inoculations (diptheria, pertussus, tetanus) for all schoolchildren did not come about until many years later. Furthermore, Nome in 1925 was a barren outpost of civilization, literally isolated from the rest of the world by frozen seas for most of the year and hundreds of miles of trackless tundra the year round. In addition, airplanes had been invented, but with January winds of minus 40 degrees whipping the pilots in their open cockpits, air rescues were hazardous even in the best of conditions. Finally, the available supplies of vaccine in Nome were aged and dwindling, and would only last a few more days at best. Given these conditions, not to mention the raging blizzards, whiteouts, unstable ice, exhaustion, and a race against time and the elements, it's a wonder the drivers and their four-footed friends prevailed at all. (Plus, the character of the heroes was best exemplified by the attitude of one of the drivers, who referred to his herculean efforts as being \\"all in a day's work\\"!) Once the reader finishes this well-told tale, he or she will understand that the statue erected in Central Park honors not only Balto, but Togo, Fox, and the other brave dogs, not to mention the valiant drivers, doctors, nurses, locomotive engineers (the first part of the serum run was on the train from Seward through Anchorage to Fairbanks, which was as far as the tracks ran in those days), roadhouse (rest stop) keepers, and all the heroic individuals that made such a odyssey possible. Indeed, so impressive was this mission, with it's triumph of time-tested Native methods of travel when technology itself proved inadequate, that the Iditarod dog race was started to commemorate this feat, lest we never forget the time when Mankind was dependent on his wits and his faithful canine friends for survival, particularly in the frozen North.	2005-03-08
US	49269744	RJ59GACA5YY2N	0312324669	184399102	Sideways: A Novel	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Get Sideways!!!	A wonderful, refreshing (and thoroughly alcoholic) read, Sideways centers on two main characters: Miles, an Apollonian, writer, always pondering existence and his meaning and place in it; and Jack, a Dionysian (how appropriate for a wine novel!), happy-go-lucky, live-for-the-moment kind of guy. Together, they spend a week on the road in California (Santa Ynez) wine country, so Miles can kill time and entertain his best friend while awaiting (hopeful) publication of his first novel; and so Jack can get some last minute \\"action\\" before sacrificing himself on the altar of wedded bliss. Many hilarious scenes ensue, particularly the opening $5 tasting opus at the local wine purveyor, the delightful Pinotfest at the Fess Parker winery late in the book, and any scene involving Maya and Terra, two delicious honeys picked up by the guys during their debauchfest. Doublecross and betrayal, staged auto accidents, a wild boar hunt with a real wild bore (note the change in spelling!), and tastings aplenty will have both the wine novice and aficianado alike on the edge of their seat. The lead characters are especially memorable: Miles and Jack discover they truly need each other. Miles needs Jack to keep from sliding into depression after his recent divorce, and Jack not only needs Miles to get him to the wedding on time, but also to have a soul buddy he can truly relate to. (One of the best ironies of this book is the fact that Jack can score with women, but can't relate to them, while Miles can relate to women, but often can't seem to score with them!) A fabulous read, to be sure. However, before buying a copy, the truly astute reader will be sure to have certain supplies on hand: 1. Vino, of course: any good wine will do, but preferably pinot noir (or the reader's favorite, it really doesn't matter, so long as it's grape), 2. A copy of the DVD: after completing the book, the reader will want to watch the movie over and over again (trust me!), and finally, 3. If the reader is awine novice, he or she will want to have a good wine guide on hand; how about Andrea Immer's delightful Great Wine Made Simple, especially since she is mentioned by name in the novel? In any case (pun intended!), the reader will want to return again and again to the wonderful world of Sideways, and you may even want to \\"get a little sideways\\" yourself each time you reread it!!!	2005-02-28
US	49269744	R373B8N2EE8AXT	0306808889	629704747	Miss Rhythm	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This Book Doesn't Miss!!!	Miss Rhythm is one of the most delightful autobiographies I've read in some time, mainly because 50's R & B diva Ruth Brown never loses her wonderful sense of humor, through good times and bad. Only a truly funny lady could witness a gruesome murder (and decapitation, p. 15) and not lose her lunch in the process. She knew the heights of show business success (several #1 R and B hits), as well as the depths (she had to work as a domestic and teacher's aide AFTER her initial success just to keep food on the table for herself and her kids) and still she comes up smiling in the end. Her battles with Atlantic record company guru Ahmet Ertegun and his minions are noted in great detail: it seems that recording artists way back when received virtually no royalties on sales of their music, and since they were charged for session expenses, often ended up in permanent debt to their labels!  This is why the most stirring portion of the book is the last 100 pages or so, which deals with her miraculous comeback on Broadway and in the movies (Hairspray), as well as her founding of the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, a wonderful organization dedicated to recovering back royalties for the many rhythm and blues artist from the 50's and 60's who were paid a mere pittance for their service and who often didn't even have health insurance!!  Through it all, the bad marriages and fabulous children, through earthquakes, car accidents, knee problems and poverty, through a final, moving reconciliation with her estranged family, the character of Miss Ruth Brown shines like an inspirational beacon. Get this marvelous book today, and let Miss Rhythm's wonderful strength and spirit serve as a shining example for many years to come.	2005-02-09
US	49269744	RO6RX75XMVV7Q	0786880295	955434720	Pluggers: Calm in the Face of Disaster	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Still Plugging Away!!!	Pluggers, that delightful little one-panel cartoon created by the immortal Jeff MacNelly, and still drawn after his death by his colleague Gary Brookins, is one of the few \\"ghost strips\\" which is actually BETTER today than when it was first created. The funny pages today are full of ghost strips, still going strong even though their original creators are now deceased, and their ranks include such stalwarts as Beetle Bailey, Hi and Lois, Love Is, Shoe, and Pluggers. These new artists, often the children or (in the case of Pluggers) former colleagues of their creators, often do an excellent job recreating the look and feel of the original. In almost all cases, however, something is missing. These \\"new versions\\" feel almost frozen, as if the new artists dare not alter the vision of the original masters. Sometimes a strip can get a total makeover and be brazenly reinvented for a new generation (as Jerry Scott did to that old museum-piece Nancy a few years back); sometimes, the readers warm to such makeovers, often they don't. Pluggers, however, has not only survived, but thrived in the new era, and the seed of it's transformation was planted by creator MacNelly before his death: have the readers write the strip!! To this day, fans of Pluggers can send in their suggestions and drawings to new Chief Plugger Brookins and, if he uses them, they will receive full credit in the strip. Calm in the Face of Disaster was the first collection of Pluggers, so most strips here are authored by MacNelly himself, with a few of the best reader contributions thrown in for good measure. What is a Plugger??  Well, they comprise approximately 80% of the American population and they are neither independently wealthy nor inordinately thin; their waistlines are often expanding and their wallets are almost always shrinking. If you are a blue-collar worker, you are certainly a Plugger, but if you have a white-collar job, but have to work long hours for little pay and recognition, you are a Plugger as well. In short, these fine folks are the backbone of this great nation, and MacNelly and Brookins are obviously very fond of them, mostly because they never stop plugging along. Here are Andy Bear, Sheila Roo, and the other denizens of Pluggerville, doing the two things they do best: working and smiling. In one strip, the Plugger party is obviously one which takes place in the kitchen rather than the living room, while in another, it is noted that \\"If doing lunch means opening a can, you are probably a Plugger.\\" The best section by far is \\"Pluggers At Work\\": for instance, \\"If you're shoes are older than some of your coworkers, you are probably a Plugger,\\" and \\"A Plugger is a plaid person in a pin-striped universe.\\" Still, no one can doubt their hard work and tenacity: Another strip shows a Plugger filling his car from a fuel truck; the sign on the panel of the truck reads \\"Midnight Oil.\\" If you can relate, then you are almost certainly a Plugger and should get this wonderful collection right away. For one thing is certain in this day and age: you may be a Plugger but, rest assured, you will never plug alone.	2005-02-02
US	49269744	RQT78MOYAMAGT	0740746669	144440816	27 Years of Shoe: World Ends at Ten, Details at Eleven	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Waiting For The Other Shoe To Drop!!!	27 Years of Shoe chronicles the cartooning career of cantankerous Jeff MacNelly's premier strip, and for the most part, his widow Susie and his former colleagues have done an impressive job. We see the early 70's Shoes, with MacNelly taking his baby steps as a stripper, the glorious 80's panels where the master truly hit his stride, his 90's output, with the characters still wonderfully out-of-place as the new millenium approaches, and the post-MacNelly Shoes, with Messers Gary Brookins, et. al, doing a very good job of keeping up the standard MacNelly's readers have come to expect. Also, plenty of extras in this volume, including contributions from Dave Berry and Mike Peters, and a touching tribute to Jeff's talented namesake son, who also died too soon. All in all, a fine collection, to be sure. So why only four stars?  Well, perhaps the answer can be found by viewing the strip today in your local newspaper. Brookins, et al, have done a fine job recreating the look and feel of MacNelly's world, but it seems they believe that the strip is best driven by jokes rather than the delightful characters who deliver them. Case in point: an early MacNelly strip from the 70's has Cosmo talking to a store clerk about his garden. The clerk says, \\"I can get you a truckload of horse manure real cheap.\\" Cosmo answers, \\"My garden is not that large.\\" The clerk replies, \\"Okay, I'll make it a truckload of mouse manure.\\"  Now, there is nothing wrong with jokes in a comic strip (in fact, it often seems these days that the funny pages aren't so funny any more), but such an \\"old groaner\\" of a gag is atypical of MacNelly's style and not as funny as the situational humor that usually drove Shoe while he was still alive (he died in 2000). One of my very favorite strips (sadly, not reprinted in this edition) concerns bachelor Cosmo coming home and announcing to his empty apartment that he will whip up a gourmet extravaganza for dinner. As he decides that such an undertaking is too much effort, he keeps simplifying his meal preparation until he is finally left to eating leftovers off his open oven door because he is too lazy to clear off the table!!  Such a \\"chamingly rumpled\\" character and the strip itself were the perfect antidote to the Eighties emphasis on consumption. Sadly, this volume seems to shortchange this decade (his best) in favor of reprinting too many strips from the Nineties, a decade where his skills had declined from sheer genius to mere excellence. Still, there are plenty of goodies from his best decade (in one, Cosmo calls to Roz the friendly tavern owner, \\"Roz, beer all around\\"; the next panel shows only himself, surrounded by some twenty or so beers, the very picture of contentment!) For the most part, you will be content with 27 Years of Shoe as well; get it today and raise a glass in tribute to one of the true greats of the cartoon world: the late, great Jeffrey MacNelly.	2005-01-26
US	49269744	R1ZKWRN66XZIFO	1560976322	313092247	The Complete Peanuts 1950-1954 Box Set	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Happiness is The Complete Peanuts!!!	Good grief, here it is!!! For all of us Peanuts fans, lying awake at night under our security blankets, dreaming of the day when ALL of those classic Charles Schultz cartoons would finally be reprinted in lovely collectible, box set form, here is the premier installment, covering the first four years of Peanuts strips 1950-1954, with a promise of one new two-year collection per year to follow in subsequent years. Here are Schultz and his creations, ready to remake the world of the funny papers forever. We see them VERY young, full of promise and hope, yet already tempered with the real-world insight that would make them the most idolized comic characters in history. For those of you who are new to the Peanuts story and looking for your favorite characters, you may have to wait until subsequent volumes are published; 1950-1954 contains only Charlie Brown, Shermy, Patty (NOT Peppermint Pattie; she wouldn't make her first apppearance for over a dozen years), Violet, Snoopy (as a puppy), Pig Pen (in the second volume), and Schroeder, Lucy, and Linus (all introduced as babies in the first volume). Charlie Brown is the main focus of the action at this point; he would remain so until Snoopy and the other characters outgrow their \\"baby phases\\" and become more central to the action a few years hence. Fans of the strip in later years may be surprised by the look and feel of certain characters; Charlie Brown in particular, alternates his usual melancholy persona with a brash, almost cocky attitude at times. Even as a baby, bright-eyed Lucy is demonstrating the cheerful selfishness that later gave her the title of world's champion fussbudget, while fellow female cast mates Patty and Violet take catlike turns sharpening their claws on Charlie Brown, who refers to himself as a \\"spiritual scratching post\\" at one point. Early on, Snoopy is thoroughly cute rather than the wonderfully amusing dog we would all know and love later. Still, his unique inventiveness is already starting toshow: rather than catch a balloon in his mouth to retrieve it, he resorts to bumping it along with his head. The packaging of Complete Peanuts is glorious, and the added materials, from an extensive interview with Schultz in volume I to a forward by a star-struck Walter Cronkite in Volume II, are wonderfully insightful. Even though many of these early incarnations of the characters often behave differently from their later counterparts, and even though Schultz was not yet at the peak of his abilities (his \\"glory years\\" really start about 1954, the last year of this set), the fabulous packaging, wonderful added materials, and above all, the completeness of The Complete Peanuts 1950-1954 make this a must-purchase for the Charlie Brown or Snoopy fan in your household. Good Grief, indeed!!!	2005-01-11
US	49269744	RU9MO9E040NXI	0139551468	938519142	What's My Line?: The Inside History of TV's Most Famous Panel Show	Books	5	26	31	N	N	What's Not To Like???	What's My Line?, one of the top game shows (technically a panel show) in the nation for many, many years, has had surprisingly little information written about it. Gil Fates, the producer during the show's entire run in prime time and in syndication, attempted to correct that mistake with this 1978 volume. Apparently, only the first hardbound edition, and no paperback, was ever issued, since I have literally scoured the web looking for a relatively cheap copy with little success. Fates paints a very human picture of the show's creation and subsequent run, spending as much time on his wonderful secretary, Claire Reeve, as on the much better known panelists Dorothy Kilgallen, Bennet Cerf, and Arlene Francis. Fates also gives due credit where credit is due by portraying Kilgallen as the most competitive gameplayer, Francis as the sweetest and most delightful, moderator John Charles Daly as the epitome of wit and urbanity, and Cerf combining all the qualities of the other three (He was truly the man; I wanted to BE Bennet Cerf rather than Mickey Mantle or John Glenn when I was growing up!). The most delightful parts of the book are the wonderful stories portraying the creation of the show and the people surrounding it, especially the original prime-time edition. (The all-time best story, of course, features Steve Allen and a charming little girl with a pail and shovel on page 21; I won't spoil it for you here!) Another great story features the program notes written by Fates as reference points to help him remember what happened on a particular program; as displayed on pages 183-185, they truly represent the delightful insanity that was the later, syndicated version of What's My Line, featuring Francis, the unstoppable Soupy Sales (the program note depicting Sales' encounter with a merry-go-round horse is just too delicious for words!), and the warm and wonderful Larry Blyden, who died too tragically young. In short, a fabulous read, and well worth paying extra to own acopy. What's not to like???	2004-12-15
US	49269744	R1W7K1AFMGWFC6	0062702440	116288136	Peanuts: A Golden Celebration: The Art and the Story of the World's Best-Loved Comic Strip	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Grief: A Golden Celebration for a Gem of An Artist!!	When Peanuts made it's debut as a new comic strip in 1950, the world of the funny pages was changed forever. Charles Schultz was argueably the greatest and most certainly the most influential strip artist of all time, and Peanuts totally changed the perception of the medium, appealing to the entire family rather than mostly to adults, and broadening and deepening the intellectual plane on which the art takes form. Schultz, who writes most of the copy in this book himself and includes a short bio and some wonderful running commentary throughout, inadvertantly proves how revolutionary Peanuts was by including some of the strips which influenced him while growing up. These comics, from Krazy Kat to Wash Tubbs, are mildly amusing at best, woefully inferior at worst, and in virtually all cases have failed to stand the test of time. Peanuts, however, has never dated, and most of the strips still are very readable half a century after original publication. An excellent collection, to be sure, and one which belongs on any comic fan's shelf. So why only four stars? Because this collection celebrates Schultz's entire career (at the time), from 1950 to 1999, when in fact, his very best and most innovative work was produced during a comparatively narrow time frame, from about 1954 or so to 1966. Luckily, some of the most famous series of strips are represented here, from Snoopy's famous impressions of other characters (including a particularly hilarious Beethoven) to Charlie Brown's longing for the Little Red Haired Girl (any person who has ever been in love can relate to that one.) In 1966, however, Charles Schultz produced his most famous series of cartoons dealing with Snoopy and The Red Baron, a Walter Mitty-esque idea so brilliant, that neither he nor any other cartoonist has been able to top it since. From that point, Peanuts began declining in quality from sheer brilliance down to mere excellence; Snoopy in particular was never the same wonderful dog we had all grown toknow and love. (Remember the endless series of strips from about fifteen years ago that centered on Snoopy's love of cookies? It seemed as if he could think of nothing else for two years or more!) The only character who seemed to grow and mature in these later years was Charlie Brown himself; it was nice to see him have successful encounters with girls, become a summer-camp hero (albeit with a paper bag over his head!) and actually WIN A BALL GAME!!! Luckily for us, Schultz still continued to draw the strip so well that it is still one of the most popular comics in the country several years after his death. In short, a very good collection, one that will hopefully lead the reader to search out and find individual collections of the glory years of Peanuts when Schultz was truly at his best. Good Grief, indeed!!!	2004-08-03
US	49269744	R3VXDJ949NXZVP	0395599687	540831726	Memoirs of the Second World War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	If You Think You Know WWII History, Read This Book!!!	Nearly 1100 pages in length, this abridged (yes, you read that correctly!) version of Winston Churchill's Nobel Prize winning, six volume set on the history of World War II will leave many would-be scholars stunned by it's revelations. If (like me) you learned history primarily from high school and college courses and your own self-study, this volume shows how woefully inadequate your understanding of this pivotal event may be. Most surprising are the pre-war revelations of how Hitler could have been contained as early as the 1920's; if the politicians of the day were not so interested in unilateral disarmament and taken Hitler's more outrageous promises with a grain of salt, he could have been stopped several times by both Britain and France before he could have built up his armaments. In particular, British Prime Ministers Stanley Baldwin and Ramsay Macdonald are to be blamed, for their inaction allowed Germany to rearm and begin their conquests almost unchecked; by the time of Neville Chamberlain's famous Appeasment at Munich, it was already too late to prevent war. The other major revelation that will surprise many readers is detailed in the chapter entitled October in Moscow, where Churchill and Russian premier Joseph Stalin literally decide postwar, Cold War politics with the stroke of a pen. (For his part, Churchill insists he believed that Stalin understood that such an arrangement was temporary.) Through it all, Churchill spins the fascinating tale of a man who thoroughly understands both military movements and the big picture when it comes to the theatres of war. Of course, the heroic generals and leaders of the nations involved, from Roosevelt to Truman, Montgomery to Ike, are detailed, mostly with compassion for their integrity and valor. This volume is recommended for the novice and true student of history alike (if one wants more military facts and figures, especially numbers of troop movements and battle details, it is suggested he purchase the complete six-volume set.) In short, if you wish to enjoy the history of WWII, particularly from a pont of view not often taught in the United States, purchase Memoirs of the Second World War today. The surprising revelations within will give you a new perspective both of WWII and how our current political situation was determined by events that happened some sixty-plus years ago.	2004-07-28
US	49269744	R32QN988O6Y3G5	0306811995	133021516	S.t.p.: A Journey Through America With The Rolling Stones	Books	4	11	28	N	N	Stones Use STP In Their Tanks To Tour America!!!	Why would anyone want to read a book about a tour that took place more than 30 years ago, in support of what is arguably the Rolling Stones most overrated album?? (Yes, Exile on Main Street does have some very good material, and excellent performances, but the \\"bathroom\\" (read: poor) sound quality, heralded by too many critics as being \\"influential\\" does not hold up well after all these years. Some of us would like to understand the lyrics, please!) Because the book is very well written by a good, observant, refreshingly unbiased journalist, and because like Jim Bouton's baseball classic Ball Four, S.T.P. was one of the first books that spawned an entire genre of rock books about specific bands. Many of the episodes still hold interest today, particularly the Playboy Mansion scenes in Chicago, and the details of the bands arrest and subsequent release (arranged by then-Mayor of Boston Kevin White to prevent a riot) from a Rhode Island jail: the Stones were supposed to be playing a concert at the very moment they were incarcerated.  Many interesting characters stand out as well, particularly Truman Capote, Princess Lee Radziwill, and Jagger himself. One thing I feel must be noted: If you are younger than fortysomething, you may be surprised at the sheer amount of ANGER felt by many of the kids, who were just itching to clash with police. In many ways, that was typical of the times, and thankfully, for the most part, such behavior would not be tolerated today. In sum, if you are a Stones fan, or a fan of great rock writing, get S.T.P. ASAP. Trust me, like the namesake gas treatment, it'll put a tiger in your tank!!!	2004-07-04
US	49269744	R3KDEHVNF53WJK	1557831904	995088859	My Life with Noel Coward (Includes the Never-Before-Published Theatre Writings of Noel Coward)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	What A Life, Indeed!!!	Over the course of forty years, South-African-born actor Graham Payn shared the life, love, companionship, and generous wit of that \\"playboy of the West End world,\\" Noel Coward. This book is a loving and often frank tribute to this great man, who made so many people laugh for so many years, and who, in life as well as on stage, was the very epitome of the word \\"style\\".  Payn begins with his first audition for Noel and the play Words and Music in the thirties, takes us through the war years, to the decidedly unforgiving (to Noel) fifties, when the critics turned against him en masse, to the triumphant sixties and \\"Dad's Renaissance\\" to an adoring public, through Noel's death and the demise of Noel's personal assistant (and fellow biographer) Cole Lesley, up to the present (1993) and the unveiling of a special tribute stone for Coward in Westminster Abbey by no less a person than the Queen Mother.  If this book ended after Graham's 250-page-or-so lovely memoir, it would still be worth five stars, but there is more. Much more. In the roughly hundred pages that follow, Payn provides us with the complete Coward writings on theatre, many of which first appeared in the Sunday Times (and which, for my money, prove conclusively that Noel Coward knew more about theatre than any other person who lived in the Twentieth Century). There are also interviews with actresses Judy Garland and Judith Campbell, brief but penetrating portraits on some of the many important figures in Coward's life (including Rex Harrison, the Lunts, and Sir Winston Churchill), and much more. My one caveat that goes with my otherwise-unqualified recommendation is this: please read The Noel Coward Diaries first, so that you get a clear understanding not only of how Noel saw himself, but how he viewed many of the key figures in this book. (Author Payn plays, not surprisingly, a significant part in the diaries.) With these two books by your bedside, you'll have the best and most delicious kind of reading entertainment for many nights to come, and you'll say of Graham Payn's life with Noel Coward: \\"What a life, indeed!!!\\"	2004-06-16
US	49269744	R2TCLGOYZMZ1SV	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Nonstop Action Work of FICTION!!!	World renowned Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon is laying in his bed early one morning when his world is shattered at 5:18 AM by a phone call from a mysterious Maximilian Kohler, head of an ultrasecret Swiss science organization who needs his services ASAP!  And when we mean right away, we mean RIGHT AWAY; Kohler is sending his private jet, which will bring Langdon to Switzerland to start the longest day and the most intense journey of his life. You see, a scientist working on a project to discover the secrets of antimatter has been Murdered, apparently by an ancient cult called The Illuminati, who seared their special brand into the dead man's forehead. Langdon soon learns that the killer or killers intend to revive the longstanding quest of this secret society by placing this antimatter bomb somewhere in the Vatican; their goal is nothing less than the destruction of the entire Catholic church!! Along the way, he encounters Vittoria, the ultrasexy, ultrasmart daughter of the dead scientist, and her aide is enlisted in the quest. Symbols, symbols abound, ancient scripts, cryptic messages, all of which must be solved by our intrepid duo before midnight when the Vatican goes Kaboom! Oh, and have I mentioned that there is a conclave of cardinals (not the birds, silly!) esconced in the Vatican, preparing to elect a new Pope? How remiss of me! Well, it seems that the killers also intend to gruesomely dispatch one of the cardinals per hour, and there is nothing Langdon, Vittoria, and the entire Swiss Guard can do about it, is there?  Wrong! Enter the camerlingo, the Pope's personal chamberlain, whose services are also enlisted in the quest. All in all, it's a madcap romp through 500+ pages and the longest day of everyone's life. Part James Bond and/or Indiana Jones adventure, part Umberto Eco symbology quest, all spellbinding, all guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat, all FUN!! However, a few cautions. First, if you are overly squeamish and cannot handle gruesome and macabre deaths graphically depicted, you might want to stay away from this book. Also if you are an overly critical type and love to look for all the factual flaws and inaccuracies of a work of FICTION (Isn't that a contradiction?? Think about it!), this book may not be for you as well. Still, if nonstop action and literary puzzles are what really grab your attention, then I would suggest grabbing a copy of this book right away and be prepared for the ride of your life. Quick before it's too late! The clock is ticking!!!	2004-05-12
US	49269744	R3MZOUED1Q1AWC	080481032X	892510437	The Legends and Myths of Hawaii: The Fables and Folk-Lore of a Strange People	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fact , Fiction, Past , Present, All The Same To His Majesty!	The Legends and Myths of Hawaii is one of the finest books you will ever read concerning that magical fleet of islands anchored in the Pacific, not to mention one of the very best mythology books you will find anywhere. Written with great gusto by David Kalakaua, His Hawaiian Majesty who was also somewhat of a Renaissance Man, these fabulous tales mix fact with fiction, historical figures with gods and goddesses, past and present into a rich stew of oral myth/history, certain to captivate even the most jaded reader. Indeed, the most striking feature of these wonderful tales is how the author accepts as gospel truth many suppositions that scientists and cultural anthopologists are still debating more than a century after his death. For example, most &quot;scholarly&quot; references to Ancient Hawaii mention the Menehunes, that proto-Hawaiian, pre-Polynesian race of people that supposedly inhabited the islands until the turn of the last millenium, but most sources still conjecture whether this band of early settlers existed in actual fact or only in myth and legend. His Majesty not only acknowledges that Menehunes lived and thrived, but actually may have survived the later &quot;Polynesian invasion&quot; which was supposed to have wiped them out; he cites a recent census where 65 inhabitants of a remote valley actually identified themselves as &quot;Menehune&quot;!!! It seems that many of our esteemed present-day scholars should in fact examine these tales more closely, the better to clear up ancient factual mysteries. (Halfway around the world, Hellenistic scholars, those concerned with ancient Greece, used Homer in their quest to unearth their legendary rival city of Troy in present-day Turkey. The bards of old truly knew what they were talking about!!) Fans of Greek and other mythologies, as well as The Bible, will no doubt discover similarities between several of these stories and the legends of other cultures, most notably in the tale of &quot;Hina, the Helen ofHawaii,&quot; that leads off this collection. Still, even if you could care a hill of taro for the factual content or scholarly discussions of Ancient Hawaii, do yourself a favor and buy this book anyway. Kalakaua, is first and foremost, a great storyteller, and all those who love a great story will be thrilled for hours. It's hard to pick out personal favorites because all are so good, but &quot;Hina,&quot; &quot;Umi, the Peasant Prince of Hawaii,&quot; and any story starring Pele, the often beautiful, always dangerous volcano goddess, are all standouts. So, if you love the myth and magic that is Hawaii, buy this most wonderful book today. The words of His Majesty await your endless pleasure!	2004-04-29
US	49269744	RIF5T4P53EXJ0	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very Good, But Story Not Firm Enough For Most Readers!!!	First of all, let me state the obvious, so that any potential reader of this novel will have a good chance of grasping what he is (or is not) dealing with: The Last Juror, John Grisham's latest legal novel, is very good, but it's not like The Firm. This point is so important that at the risk of insulting your intelligence, I'm going to say it again: THE LAST JUROR IS VERY GOOD, BUT IT'S NOT THE FIRM!!! Most fans of Grisham love what I'm going to call &quot;the Grisham formula&quot;: taut, edgy, plot; vividly drawn, but memorable characters; a fantasy situation guaranteed to keep them on the edge of their seats, fabulous, mouthwatering scenes of fattening Southern-style feasts (very much in the manner of James Bond author Ian Fleming), somewhat leftist politics, and finally, the young and (usually) male leading character sailing off into the sunset (usually the Carribean) with fistfuls of cash and plenty of time on his hands. So what's different about The Last Juror? The hero, 23-year old aspiring journalist-turned newspaper-owner Willie Traylor, who borrows money from his wealthy grandmother to buy The Ford County Times and save it from bankuptcy? Nope. The fascinating, larger than life characters, like something from the Italian Commedia D'ell Arte stock shows? Nope. The last juror herself, Calia Ruffin, the imposing, yet soft-hearted matriarch of Clanton's most successful black family, is one of the most luminous characters Grisham has ever created, and the southern soul feasts she prepares are certainly juicy enough to set any reader's mouth watering. The chance for the hero to make lots of money? Nope, this happens as well, as Traynor makes the Times a phenomenal success, enough to entertain a very lucrative buyout offer. The politics? Not there either, as Grisham takes a very thinly-veiled (and VERY dated) jab at the Wal Mart chain, and opposes the war in Vietnam. No, it seems the primary reason that many fans of &quot;The Formula&quot; will feel cheated by theLast Juror is the fact that the (mostly) excellent plot is hurredly jammed into about 100 or so of the books 350+ pages. Danny Padgett, scion of a very corrupt local family, brutally rapes and murders a young single mother, is sentenced to life in prison instead of receiving the death penalty, vows revenge on all the jurors, and is parolled after just serving ten years. However, the majority of the book does not concern the plot, but instead focuses on the character of Willie Traynor and how he grows from a wet-behind-the-ears college kid into a responsible adult. Thus, the story of this book has more in common with the relaxed tone of Bleachers or perhaps A Painted House rather than the edgy, frenetic pace of The Firm or A Time To Kill (which was also set in Clanton). Grisham is still growing and improving as a writer as he ages, therefore he simply cannot write the exact same type of books as he wrote fifteen years ago; there are important, mature changes in pace and time, and for the most part, the changes work, particularly in the scenes involving Miss Callie and her lovely brood of children-turned-college professors. The scenes with lawyer Harry Rex are also excellent for comic relief and Willie's goal of visiting every church in town provides a wonderfully unexpected subplot. Still, for such a relaxed pace, the ending feels very rushed and the reader almost feels cheated out of a proper denoument; Grisham could have taken another dozen or so pages and made a much smoother ending, this one feels as if it were written on deadline. (For that matter, a personal gripe: Where, oh where, is The Grisham Female, that delicious blend of sass, smarts, and sophistication notably absent from the last few novels. Think Darby Shaw, Ellen Roark, or Gabrielle from The Runaway Jury, and you get the idea. Ginger, the female love intrest in this book, appears in a mere dozen pages.) Still, the resolute, compassionate character of Miss Callie is worth the price of the book alone;this black-white, mother-son-like relationship will warm your heart and the plot, though rushed, does end in a nice twist. Get The Last Juror, for while it's not A Time To Kill, or even The Rainmaker, it's delights are very real and certainly firm enough for many readers, even if the plot seems a bit too flimsy for devotees of the famous &quot;Grisham Formula&quot;.	2004-04-03
US	49269744	R1PM4D60HALC0N	0385306849	421543512	Saucerful of Secrets: The Pink Floyd Odyssey	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Would Someone Please Update This Book???	Many years ago, Nicholas Schaffner, author of this excellent volume on that rocking band of space cadets known as Pink Floyd, wrote a book entitled The British Invasion, dealing with all the rock bands that came from John Bull's Island (an old, OLD term for Great Britain!)in the sixites and seventies, with several extended chapters on the most important bands, including the Floyd. Schaffner's writing was so lucid and intense, yet free-flowing, particularly concerning the madcap ex-guitarist named Syd Barrett, that I resolved there and then to someday pick up an entire, updated book of the Floyd. Well, in one respect, Saucerful of Secrets fills the bill nicely. Schaffner's writing is still wonderfully lucid and is an easy, entertaining read throughout, and as free from bias as any book of the FLoyd is likely to be. (If bassist Roger Waters seems to come in for more than his share of bashing, it merely confirms what I have learned from most of the other sources I have read to date.) Unfortunately, Schaffner is deceased; he died in 1991 and no one has seen fit to update his work as of this writing. He has done such a fine job covering all the bases of the band's founding, the early happenings with UFO, Syd's creativity, drug usage, and subsequent withdrawal, the formulation of a Syd-less group identity, the Golden Years of Dark Side of the Moon and Wish You Were Here, the early fragmentation into two camps: Roger Waters and everyone else, the Wall and early solo projects, the Roger-less Floyd, and Water's final triumph at the Berlin Wall. All told very, very well indeed! Now, would some enterprising journalist or former band insider provide the needed updates, including such topics as Water's 2000 tour and Gilmour's escapades with one Sir Paul McCartney? Please?? Millions of Floyd fans would be most appreciative. In any case, for a great read of how the Floyd got to be Pink, get this book now and any subsequent updates as they are written. The secrets of this wonderfulodyssey await you by the saucerful!!!	2004-03-20
US	49269744	R1BTR6J02EFGA0	0879306327	431895235	Jeff Beck: Crazy Fingers Softcover	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Crazy, Man, Crazy!!!	Crazy Fingers, Annette Carson's outstanding book about that guitar icon known as Jeff Beck, is not filled with stories of sex and drugs, debauchery, or other tabloid trash. Instead, the author focuses her energy on the man and his music. Gearheads will love this book because she includes lots of talk about GUITARS (Mr. Beck plays the git fiddle, doncher know?): How Jeff acquired them, modified them to suit his taste, which guitar he uses on which numbers, and some general discussion about how he gets his different effects. But make no mistake. If you do not actually play guitar or indeed any musical instrument, you will still be pleased by Carson's breezy, very readable writing style (sometimes including her own wry commentary on certain albums; for example, she ranks Paul Rodgers seminal classic roots album Muddy Water BLues, a disc where Beck guested on three tracks, much higher than the original newspaper reviewer.). Plenty of information is also included about Jeff's formative years, his relationships and family life, and most important, his career from Yardbird demigod to jazz-rock heavy, and his relations with peers and backup musicians (including several discussions on his hot/cold friendship with fellow Jeff Beck Group alum Rod Stewart.) Jeff even finally answers the lingering \\"Spinal Tap\\" question himself: Is he or is he not the model for Nigel Tufnel, wildman guitarist extraordinaire in the cult classic movie This Is Spinal Tap? (Hint: Jeff LOVES classic cars, and Nigel is seen during one scene in the film reading a hot rod magazine. Hmmmmm!) In short, an excellent, informative read, great for musicians and non-musicians alike, and one which will deepen your understanding of the crazy man that is guitar legend Jeff Beck. As Bill Haley once said: \\"Crazy, Man, Crazy!!!\\"	2004-03-10
US	49269744	R29RNGU2S29XQL	0767913795	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	5	5	15	N	N	The Ultimate Self-Help Book!!!	Forget about politics for a minute. Who's Looking Out For You is not a book about politics. This statement is so important, I'm going to repeat it: THIS IS NOT A BOOK ABOUT POLITICS. Yes, author Bill O'Reilly is the supersavy host of the FOX News Channel's news and commentary show No Spin Zone. Yes, the basic premise of this book is that you should be Very Careful whom you trust these days, and he seems especially distrustful of BIG institutions: Big Government, Big Media, Big Religion, etc. In and of itself, saying that Big Is Bad is making a political statement. I agree. But to get the most out of this book (and there are several excellent suggestions for better everyday living), you should view this book in it's proper context. Who's Looking Out...is a SELF HELP book. O'Reilly draws generously from his vast reservoir of life experience (and he's not shy about discussing the numerous mistakes he has made and, more importantly, the lessons he learned from them), so that he, in effect, can most effectively practice what he preaches and become a person whose first thought is to look out for others rather than enriching himself. Bill does this by telling stories from his own experiences with the different news organizations he has been attached to, which colleagues taught him lessons and how, which ones looked after him, and, most important, who hosed him and why. (Hint: Bill O'Reilly has never been a poster boy for shyness!) Chapter Nine is the key chapter of the book; after carefully breaking down America's big, bad institutions in Chapters One through Eight, Bill uses Chapter Nine to outline his plan, which involves (among other things) forging coalitions with like-minded coworkers, finding mentors who will look out for you (as Peter Jennings once looked after Bill at ABC News), and most important, Never, Never talking trash about coworkers at the office. Throughout this pivotal chapter and the next, Bill O'Reilly proves his belief that personal discipline, education, and persistence are the keys to success, and that chaos must be avoided at all costs. (Chaos, says Bill, merely begats more chaos, and is usually caused not by outside factors, but by your own poor decisions.) In sum, Bill O'Reilly does indeed prove his thesis: Chances are excellent that no one will look out for you, so you must learn to look out for yourself. Also, if you look out for others, they can show you true friendship just when you need it most. Cheers for Bill O'Reilly! Forget the politics, and get this wonderful, magical Self Help book right away, before chaos overtakes and controls your life!	2004-02-29
US	49269744	R1KUMJ84HRJV7C	0060520612	799606467	The Proper Care and Feeding of Husbands	Books	5	100	129	N	N	Treat Others The Way You Would Like To Be Treated!!!	My wonderful wife of twelve years gave me this book to read. She's a happy, positive sort of person, but sometimes feels she's being a &quot;bad wife&quot; (not supportive enough), but she's always looking to improve, and since she loves Dr. Laura anyway, she decided to get this book. (For the record: My wife has not, and never will be, a bad wife. In our twelve years since the march down the aisle, BOTH OF US have been at times very arrogant, stubborn, and selfish.) The key reason our marriage has been able to thrive and survive has to do with a very basic philosophy, one that is key to understanding Care and Feeding of Husbands: Do Unto Others (especially your spouse)As You Would Have Done Unto You. In other words, treat your spouse kindly, support their endeavors, and you will usually receive such treatment in return. That's it. That's all that is needed. No &quot;deep penetration into the Female Psyche&quot; (isn't that rather painful?), no female (or male) bashing, nothing of the sort. Just simple love, affection, and A NEED TO BE HAPPY RATHER THAN &quot;RIGHT&quot; ALL THE TIME! Dr. Laura gives us these timeless messages, supported by literally thousands of emails from wives and husbands, which reveal nothing but frustration from those couples who have not tried her kinder, gnetler approach, nothing but happiness from those who have put her message into practice. Yes, she gets into specifics (such as treating your husband as if you were his wife rather than as if you were his mother), but for the most part, most of the prose in this short (150 pages or so) book merely reinforces the central concept. She does this because of her belief that if a couple doesn't get the central idea of her work, then all other suggestions are a waste of time. I will close by sharing a very relevant quote from a once very famous play (made into a movie starring Jimmy Stewart), Harvey by Mary Chase. (Forgive me, I can't find my copy and am quoting from memory as best as I can.) Elwood P Dowd (the part played so well by Stewart in the movie; he's the fella with the invisible six-foot rabbit named Harvey for his best friend.) says in reply to a question from his doctor: Doctor, my grandmother once told me that I could either be oh, so smart, or oh, so pleasant. For years I was smart. I recommend pleasant.&quot; Or, as my own grandmother once said, &quot;You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar.&quot; (To which I would respond, &quot;Yes, but who wants a bunch of flies?&quot;) In any case, wives (and husbands) might find that if they treat their spouses with a lot more respect, support their ideas instead of bashing them, and try to be happy rather than &quot;right,&quot; they might just wind up with a happy marriage. Get this life changing book today!!! It has already made such a difference in my own life and marriage!!!	2004-02-28
US	49269744	RUMHNC85VH26M	1566473470	357434063	Hawai'i Looking Back: An Illustrated History of the Islands	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An Excellent Book- - - If You Can Lift It!!	If you were to purchase Hawaii Looking Back, and placed it on your coffee table, visitors to your home would no doubt be impressed with it's magnificent size. They would be equally blown away by the quantity of Old Hawaii photographs inside--laborers, hula dancers, historical figures, literally thousands of (mostly) black and white and sepia photographs, most never seen before outside the islands, and all tied together by Glen Grant's rich, insight-filled text. A fabulous book indeed. So what's not to like, shouldn't this masterpiece be featured prominently on everyone's coffee table? Well, yes, but there are a few concerns. For one thing, this is a very, very heavy book, hard to balance and read at the same time, and while the history-minded reader will want to devour every word, the simple act of reading it is a physical chore in and of itself. (I finally had to place the book face up on the surface of my bed or couch and lay with my body sprawled almost on top of the text in order to get through it!) Also, as with too many books concerning our 50th state, too much emphasis (over 90%) of the available space is given to Oahu, particularly Honolulu and Waikiki. Certainly, as the center of population and seat of government, Honolulu should take first place in any comprehensive history of the islands; still, I would have loved to have seen more photos of the rest of the state, particularly my beloved Maui. (There MUST be photos of Old Lahaina somewhere, and I for one would love to see them!) However, this is still a must-purchase for anyone interested in the history of the islands, particularly those interested in period photos. (For me, the most compelling shots in the book were the normal, everyday photos of a college football game and other outdoor acitvities taken on December 6th, 1941, the day before the attack on Pearl Harbor. Literally the calm before the storm. The effect of these pictures is an once peacful and chilling.) So, get Hawaii Looking Back and giveit an honored place on your coffee table, or, better yet, sell the table and put your coffee on the book! This excellent, insightful tome is certainly large enough to serve coffee on---with room to spare for sugar, cream, and coffee cake to boot!!!	2004-02-25
US	49269744	RMRMPFZVMW6FD	047208478X	766027690	Let the Good Times Roll: The Story of Louis Jordan and His Music (The Michigan American Music Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Ray Charles, BB King, James Brown Can't Be Wrong!!!	For many years, while Bill Haley, Little Richard, Bo Diddley, and even bluesman Muddy Waters were all celebrated as having contributed to the birth of rock and roll, the contributions of jump blues/swing/jive man Louis Jordan were almost always overlooked, if not forgotten. It was left to his contemporaries such as James Brown, Ray Charles, and BB King (King recently released a tribute album of all-Jordan material), not to mention such former duet partners as Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong, and Bing Crosby, to sing the praises of this very talented but always underappreciated legend. John Chilton seeks to right the wrong with this biographical treatment, and for the most part, does an admirable job. Louis' rural beginnings in oil-boom Arkansas are chronicled, as are his tenure with the Chick Webb band (where he was &quot;cut&quot; in a musical contest by the immortal Lester Young), his many hits, his many marriages, his relentless drive for perfection, his decline in popularity at the hands of rock and roll, the music he helped inspire, and his final vindication (as with many black musicians) in front of appreciative British audiences. Overall, Chilton does a thorough job, but one senses that he is rushing to get through the material; he rarely spends any time on any one subject. Example: Jordan's most famous songs, such as Choo, Choo, Ch'Boogie and Saturday Night Fish Fry, are given no more time and attention than such lesser gems as Honey In The Bee Ball or Sax-A-Woogie. Another example: He mentions the affair between Jordan and Fitzgerald, but leaves it at that; no discussion on how this affair affected his marriages or how the former bandmates relationship changed over time. At 245 pages, the text is a good read, but surely, Chilton could have spent another 100 or so pages reflecting at length on these and other topics. Part of the problem seems to be that Chilton, as a jazz critic, shares the jazzman's disdain for Jordan's overly commercial material and approach. Still, there is a lot of good research here, and a biography of Jordan was sorely needed. Chilton, for the most part, has done a very fine job, however the definitive biography of Louis Jordan will take several years, and should be undertaken by someone who would better put him in context as a founding figure of rock, as well as a leading light in swing and jump blues.	2004-02-19
US	49269744	RX25MHZQI06J6	0943357020	940369934	Ancient Hawaii	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Amazing Story And Stunning Paintings!!!	In 1995, officials from the Four Seasons Hotel and Resort, then under construction on the Big Island, persuaded local illustrator and living legend Herbert Kawainui Kane to produce a series of paintings depicting ancient Hawaiians as they went about their everyday tasks. Kane consented, and also wrote the captions that would accompany the work on display. As these captions became longer and longer, Kane realized he had the beginnings of an excellent book on the history of his people. Thus Ancient Hawaii came into being. He begins, of course, with the legendary Menehunes (as we now know them; we have no idea what they called themselves) and their epic voyages from Polynesia and the South Pacific, then traces the journeys of the much-later Tahitian adventurers who became the ancestors of the people now known as Hawaiians. The remainder of the book is taken up with descriptions of Hawaiians as they practiced their everyday crafts, from planting to taro-making, from fishing to navigating. Of course, Hawaiian leisure activities are featured as well, not only the hula and surfing, but also canoeing, gambling, and &quot;nocturnal activities between consenting adults.&quot; (Let's not go there!) Each of these activites (except the &quot;adult&quot; pastimes) are accompanied by some of the most visually stunning paintings you've ever seen of the islands and their people. Thunderously rich, vibrant, and full of life, these works of art could easily be ripped out and hung on the wall (but who would want to ruin such a wonderful book?); readers who want more of these beautiful treasures are given ordering information in the back of the book. Accompanied by his luminous, truly poetic written descriptions, the reader comes away with an idyllic, yet very truthful and accurate look of Pre-Cook Hawaii, one that is beautifully descriptive and thankfully free of judgement. Ancient Hawaii should be a the top of your must-purchase list, as it combines accurate history, stunning paintings, and wonderful, easy-to-read prose into one slim yet altogether winning volume.	2004-02-16
US	49269744	R30OTD6J1X6R0E	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What Does A Lawyer Have For Breakfast? Pop Torts!!!	Clay Carter is a young, likeable lawyer working in the Office of the Public Defender (OPD) in Washington DC. He is in his early 30's, hopelessly burned out, snubbed by his girlfriend and her society parents, and basically looking for a miracle to drop from the sky. Lo and behold, it does! Max Pace is an enigmatic sort who promises Clay that the mysterious murder case that has just landed on his desk is no coincedence: if Clay will only take the case, representing the defendants against a greedy and unscrupulous pharmaceutical company, soon similar cases will fall his way and untold riches will be his. Farfetched?? Of Course! Remember, the author is John Grisham, king of the Lawyer's Fantasy stories, who takes the most outlandish cases, makes them just barely plausible, and sends the young, ambitious (male) lawyer on the rollercoaster ride of his life through unspeakable danger to love, wealth, and riches in a getaway fantasy land (usually in the Carribean). Anyway, Clay swallows the bait, makes ungodly amounts of money, shortchanges his clients, and dates an exotic beauty. Yes, but soon, all goes tragically wrong as our lawyer, dubbed the King of Torts by the press, soon becomes the King of Shorts, as his enemies and clients alike seek revenge for his excessive greed. Fortunately, our hero has sown some seeds of goodness as well, and two former colleagues return to his life to offer aid and comfort when he needs it most. A return of his former girlfriend is just as inevitable; however, their reunion is as hard to swallow as their breakup in the first place. (Especially since they tossed each other aside so callously to begin with.) However, no matter. All ends well, and the reader once again finds that John Grisham's world, overly cynical though it may be, is worth exploring, and that the King of Torts is yet another worthwile, entertaining read from an author who has made a career of them.	2004-02-10
US	49269744	R16SX7K0UIK8WV	0595239773	214478519	Living and Retiring in Hawaii: The 50th State in the 21st Century	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Retiring in Hawaii- - -Is It Possible- - -Yes!!!	Yes, say the Smiths, authors of this excellent resource to our 50th state, yes it IS possible to retire to Hawaii, but please be sure to do your homework first. Luckily, the Smiths give you a wealth of information in these pages to help you get a good start in making a decision that is truly right for you. They try to cover as many bases as possible: What its like to live on each island, what to expect in the way of nightlife, activities, medical resources, and senior resources. They also cover the question of buying and/or renting, both apartments and condos, and thankfully, their info INCLUDES PRICES (a few years out of date, to be sure, but at least they give you a ballpark idea of what to expect) and even gives sample budgets to show what a typical retired couple might expect to spend in a given month (Warning: Be sure to notice the Assumptions connected with each budget!). The Smith's Top Ten Places to Retire in Hawaii is also listed (with particular emphasis on Oahu and the Big Island). They even consider the possible impact of the Hawaiian Sovereignty movement on tourism and politics. (This final chapter, Wither Hawaii, starts strong, but the ending is rather confusing: the Smiths don't make a definitive conclusion or even a conjecture about how much the Sovereignty movement may impact tourism. However, if you go back through the entire book, they really have made a very strong case that retirees in 21st Century Hawaii will form such a strong voting block that any official/unofficial movement to make the state less welcoming to Mainlanders will probably be thwarted at the polls.) In any case, this book is a must purchase for anyone (especially retirees) planning to make the big move to the Aloha State. Get it today! Such a move may not be easy or in everyone's best interest, but thanks to this wonderful book, a move to Hawaii may be in your future someday if not sooner!	2004-02-06
US	49269744	RG175DIWI2NOO	0515136530	370800636	Key of Valor	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Key To Courage:  Making Your Own Family &amp; Friends!!!	Key of Valor is Nora Roberts last---and best---installment to the stunning Key trilogy. It is the best not just because of the successful conclusion in the journey of three new best friends to rescue their lookalike goddesses; best not just because Rowena and Pitt and Moe the Wonderdog (and a new sidekick!!) are present for the conclusion; best not just because Indulgence, the beauty salon/bookstore/art gallerly started by Malory, Dana, and Zoe together is such an overwhelming success (with phones literally ringing off the hook); but best because Zoe finally realizes the central theme not only of her quest, but of the entire trilogy. The theme goes something like this: If the world casts you down and out, if relationships desert you and employers no longer want to employ you, then success in life must be achieved through the family you choose and the friends you make. In other words, you are alone only if you wish to be. Before Zoe could figure out the final key's location, she must have the courage to go out on a limb and accept Bradley's love: only when that love is secure can she then find the key, right where it was waiting for her all along. (Hint: If you think it has something to do with Brad, and the home and family they will make together, then you're on the right track.) Oh, and how could I fail to mention Simon the Wonderkid? The scene where he grills Bradley about Brad's and Zoe's....well, intimacy....ranks as the funniest and most heartwarming scene in a trilogy that's full of them. Finally (speaking of someone who's full of it!), the evil god Kane is back to try to tempt both Zoe and Brad. And yes, it will take Brad, Rowena, Pitte, and Zoe at her most courageous to defeat him in the end. (Yes, the ending is a little corny, but the cob is golden and the corn is very tasty!) Please save room in your heart for Key of Valor. This trilogy could even help change your life, if only you have the courage to let it!	2004-01-31
US	49269744	R3CRS6JBX5S9IF	0515136379	214237042	Key of Knowledge	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Be Secure In The Knowledge: This Is An Excellent Book!!	Key of Knowledge picks up right where part one (Key of Light) left off. In Nora Roberts excellent Celtic goddesses/lost souls/contemporary seekers trilogy, Malory, Dana, and Zoe are reuinited once again to continue the quest for the three keys to release three lookalike goddesses from their eternal prison. Part two is Dana's story; as with Malory, she has job issues (she is unfairly fired from her position at the library), and man issues (in the person of ex-lover, lifelong-friend, and soon-to-be Major Squeeze Jordan Hawke, the famous writer whose books she secretly reads with pride), not to mention dog issues (did you think Moe, the wonderdog who supplied so much humor and life to Key of Light, would be left out of the new volume? Heavens to Snoopy, No!!). Since she was a librarian and is soon to be a bookstore owner (in Indulgence, the delicious bookstore/beauty salon/art gallery the three women plan to open), it follows that writing and books should play a major role in her finding the Key of Knowledge. Oh, yes, Kane, the ultraegotistic supernatural villian, is back as well. This celestial scumbag has taken an oath to play by the rules; he soon breaks them by physically attacking Jordan. It will take the combined efforts of all three women, their men, plus Rowena and Pitt to overcome his snares in this installment. While this volume is a worthy successor to Key of Light, a few questionable choices make this installment less successful than it's predecessor. One: Dana is a little too quick to believe Kane and his illusions and thus doubt the sincerity of Jordan's love (at first, anyway). She knows Kane means to hurt her, why let him win? The second choice is harder to address without giving away too much of the plot; suffice it to say that Jordan, as a writer, should have more control over his own work at the story's climax. He created it, why shouldn't he be able to control every aspect of his book? Still, the genuine warmth and friendship between the three women, the strength and courage of their convictions, and the effective conclusion of this second installment will have you waiting anxiously for Key of Valor, Zoe's story and the final piece in the trilogy's puzzle. Read Key of Knowledge right away, secure that this book is indeed an excellent followup to Key of Light, and when you are finished, lose no time in starting Key of Valor at once. Magic, romance, and the friendship that only three incredible women can create await your immediate attention!!	2004-01-28
US	49269744	R3DS986J8A9N5Q	051513628X	546939994	Key of Light	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Let This Book Light The Way To Your Shelf!!!	Malory Price is the stunningly beautiful, and rather youngish, manager of The Gallery, a chic art gallery in the wilds of western Pennsylvania. She's smart, sassy, and because her boss's new trophy wife is insanely jealous, soon to be unemployed. She receives a mysterious invitation to a cocktail reception to the grand old house (mansion is more like it) on Warrior's Peak. In search of new business for The Gallery, she attends, and meets two equally brainy beauties---Dana, the bookish (what else?) librarian who can research anything, and, most delightfully of all, Zoe, the hairdresser extraordinaire and post-modern heart-on-her-sleeve flowerchild and mother who is the queen of moral support. Soon, at Warrior's Peak, they encounter a mysterious painting (complete with some VERY familiar faces!) and an equally mysterious couple who make them a very enticing offer: If they will join together on a quest in search of three keys, and are successful, they will each receive one million dollars! If they fail, the penalty will be a year of their lives!! The girls have a month each to solve the puzzle, and Malory is first up. She soon gains allies: Flynn, the very handsome and available editor of the local paper (do I smell romance in the air?), and Moe, his unforgettable mountain of a dog who provides lots of comic relief. In the hands of a lesser author, such a premise could seem overly grim or gothic, but instead, the comic bickering between the soon-to-be-lovers, and most of all, the warm, genuine relationships formed between the three women (each of whom has come to a crossroads in her life; they soon band together in a prospective business venture.) make this an unforgettable beginning of what promises to be an outstanding trilogy. Hats off to Nora Roberts, who proves that the future is best faced by following your heart and embracing new loves,  friendships, and ventures when they come along, rather than staying safe (but suffocating) within your personal box. All thisand a touch of magic, too, make Key of Light, and indeed the entire trilogy a must-read. Get it today, and let the key light a path to a special spot on your own personal bookshelf.	2004-01-23
US	49269744	RZCG5SY6T9J4U	0824803248	905565735	Shoal of Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands	Books	4	26	28	N	N	500+ Pages, And Still Incomplete!!	Trying to write a history of the Hawaiian Islands---or any other place, for that matter---is like trying to teach the history of the British Empire in one three-hour college course; in other words, impossible! You've got to make hard choices about what to include, and what to leave out, and your choices often speak volumes about you as a writer of history and about the audience you intend to reach. Gavan Daws excellent book, Shoal of Time, does an admirable job in presenting as much history of Hawaii as possible in a manageable single volume that is (relatively) free from overt bias. He starts with the &quot;discovery&quot; of the islands by Captain Cook in the 1700's, moves through the Kamehameha monarchs and their often bloody battles (this section is one of the book's highlights), continues with the work of the missionaries (for better or worse, sometimes with tragic consequences), importation of oriental workers to help with the great sugar plantations, and finally finishes with Hawaii as a territory, WWII, and statehood. Dawes is mostly concerned in telling the various political intrigues that are woven throughout Hawaiian history: monarchs vs. monarchs, missionaries vs. &quot;hedonists&quot;, foreigners vs natives and others; by concentrating his efforts in this direction, he accurately depicts the history of the islands as one fraught with controversies over citizenship, ownership, and how the fledgling territory and state is viewed by the world at large. Both Great Britain and the United States play significant roles and each at one time lays claim to the tiny republic; Dawes must be given special accolades for presenting the (at times) unsavory annexation attempts by both nations as factually and as completely free from bias as possible. An admirable job of storytelling, yet there are one or two subject matters that Dawes could have at least touched upon that would have made Shoal more complete, including: (1)ancient, pre-Cook Hawaii, (2) more discussion about islands other than Oahu and Maui, which take up close to 90% of the book, and (3)the rise of Hawaii as a tourist and cultural mecca, in the 1950's and beyond, and how such a rise will affect the future of the islands and the growing sovereignty movement. In short, Shoal of Time is a very fine work, and should be one of your first purchases when assembling your library of island history and Hawaiiana.	2004-01-19
US	49269744	R3QQ61URNKLLV5	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Epic  Book To Shatter WWII Myths!!!	Most students of history have seen photos of FDR, Churchill, and Stalin at the Yalta Conference, near the end of WWII, smiling, hopeful, as they wait for the photographer to finish before deciding the Fate Of The World. In most accounts of that meeting, one wonders what Churchill is doing there; surely, his presence is a concession to history, a glorious thank-you from Roosevelt and Stalin for having the courage to be the first to face Hitler. After all, Roosevelt and Stalin determined Cold War politics for the next 40+ years; the British PM was just along for the ride, right? Wrong, Wrong, oh how wrong can you be!!! For as Meacham makes abundently clear in this wonderful book, Sir Winston Churchill was in fact the primary architect of most of the Allies military and political strategy during WWII, and his primary genius was in using his considerable skills of personal rhetoric to persuade President Roosevelt to back his positions with the full force of American military might. For his part, FDR is seen as a master manipulator, ever ready to sell out WSC (Churchill) when it works to his advantage. Yet, Roosevelt proves a true friend when it counts most: In the aftermath of a stunning defeat at Tobruk, the President of the United States comes to Britain's aid by posing the simple question, \\"What can we do to help?,\\" and shows, through military and moral support, that \\"a friend in need is a friend indeed.\\" Throughout the war, these two titans prove that a shared love of military history, politics, and the cocktail hour (i.e., the one time of day when these harried CEOs can truly be themselves) can help sustain their affections through the most overwhelming trials and tribulations. Meacham also shows the parts played by Significant Others during the conflict, including Lucy Rutherfurd, the Great Love of FDR's life, shown here as much more supportive than wife Eleanor (a true bleeding-heart whose heart doesn't bleed quite so much for her husband); Churchill's wife Clementine comes across as much more sympathetic. Also chief among the supporting players is FDR aide Harry Hopkins, who lends invaluable assistance in arranging the first (real) meeting between his boss and WSC after Churchill wins his affections with true charm and humility. In short, a fabulous, fascinating read, and one which will increase the Churchill legend for generations to come. Truly, one wonders if the USA and other Allies would be free today if not for the seminal work of these two great men, particularly the work of one Winston Spencer Churchill. For indeed, we Americans and most of the free world owe him and the British a debt which can never be repaid.	2004-01-15
US	49269744	R2TADHLBERCB02	006092327X	723079687	Do Penguins Have Knees?	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Back To The Bathroom!!	By now, you are hopefully familiar with the Imponderables series of books, those tremendous tomes of teasing trivia, where author David Feldman has the nerve to ask those all-important questions of the nature of existence, such as \\"Why are there tiny holes in the ceiling of my car?\\" (As for me, such a question is merely proof that said driver does not have their eyes on the road, a frequent phenomenon on today's highways!) Anyhoo, Penguins is one of the better books in the series, if for no other reason than the fact that it attempts to answer the immortal question (drum roll, please): Does anyone really like fruitcake?? (Sorry, but I can't reveal the answer here: Feldman is a professional in such matters, and I dare not paraphrase his response one iota!) As with When Do Fish Sleep, the bulk of this book is given to Feldman considering such questions, submitting the questions to  acknowledged experts in the field (Is there a fruitcake expert?) and printing their responses, or the competing theories if there is more than one answer. (In the example above, the Fruitcake Question was posed in the Frustables section, which Feldman uses to ponder matters that seem to defy easy explanation, then prints the best responses in the next book in the series. This is how he hooks you into buying more than one book! Pretty clever, huh?) As always, Kassie Schwan's delightful illustrations add to the humor. (Yes, this is a humor book!) In any case, this sixth volume in the seemingly endless series of books is one of the best, and as I have stated in another review, makes a perfect read in the bathroom! So, get Do Penguins Have Knees, and other books in the Imponderables series today. As Jim Morrison, the immortal lead singer for the Doors once said, \\"I see the bathroom is clear....\\"	2004-01-09
US	49269744	R31HG238MFKBRU	0971727902	371553693	Maui Revealed: The Ultimate Guidebook, Second Edition	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Truth About Maui Is Revealed!!!	There are so many good things to say about Maui Revealed, the outstanding guidebook for the Hawaiian island of Maui, that to list them all, the review would need to be as long as the book itself! Suffice it to say, this is the one to buy. After a quick intro explaining the basics of how the book was put together (which shows the authors' hard work and total dedication to their subject matter), and after a short but very informative history of the islands, Doughty and Friedman start, appropriately enough, with a section called The Basics. In other words, what do you need to know about Maui in general even before making the trip? (One hint: No cruise lines operate between Hawaii and the mainland; better plan on flying!) Next, Maui is divided into seven sections (West Maui, Central Maui, Hana Highway, Southeast Maui, Haleakala & Upcountry, South Maui, and Offshore Islands, including Kaho'olawe, Lana'i, and Molokai; Molokini, the crescent islet that is a snorkler's paradise, is covered in the South Maui section), and each section is covered in VERY thorough and exhaustive detail. Then, there are separate chapters covering beaches, activities (golf, kayaking, hiking, etc.), adventures (ex. Hike in a lava tube), island dining (yes, includes luaus!), and finally, recommendations on where to stay in each section on the island. In their assessments, the authors are often brutally frank (their best bet for food in Hana: \\"I don't know, what did you bring with you?\\"); trust me, this will work to your advantage. In my own travels, I found the Hana Highway section to be the best and most useful (thanks, guys, my wife and I would never have found the paradise of Nahiku without it!), and their information is almost always dead-on accurate. (Yes, folks, the road from Hana to the delightful Tedeschi winery is somewhat difficult, but we had no trouble in our convertable. However, please be very careful; it wouldn't hurt to have some basic emergency gear on hand for the trip.) All this, plus useful maps and some of the most gorgeous photos you will ever see, make Maui Revealed a must-purchase for anyone planning to spend a week, a month, or half of forever on this lovely island. Get it ASAP and the truth about the undisputed playground of Hawaii will be revealed!!!	2004-01-08
US	49269744	R3SFEUE148M9RR	0935180621	867114932	Maui's Hana Highway	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not The Best Hana Guide, But Fantastic Photos!!	Maui's Hana Highway is very informative, charmingly descriptive- -and, sadly enough, is no longer the best guide available to the Road to Hana. (Maui Revealed, that fabulous, pull-no-punches guidebook written by Andrew Doughty and Harriett Freidman, is usually considered the standard to which all other Maui books aspire.) Nevertheless, this very slim booklet is still worthy of your consideration as a supplement to Maui Revealed. Why?? In a word: PHOTOS. As authors Kepler and Kepler have stated in the preface, Hana Highway is basically a picture book, one which includes a number of stunning photos of the highway, the scenery, and most of all, the flora and fauna (plants and animals) of the famed 52-mile trek and beyond. (Ater all, Dr. Kepler is a New Zealand naturalist.) From bouganvillea to breadfruit, ginger to ground orchids, Dr. Kepler chronicles the trees, wild pigs, palms, and especially, the many incredible flowers along the way with loving prose and stunning photography. Yes, it's true, the guide is definitely dated (the part about not using rental cars on the section of highway past Kipahulu is just not true); it's also true that many readers would prefer more photos of coastline scenery and fewer of flowers. However, if you're the nature-loving type (with trail mix in your pockets and granola in your soul), then this book would make a perfect supplemental guide, particularly if you plan to make the drive as an all-day event and leave your car frequently to hike the trails. If this is the case, then pick up Maui's Hana Highway today and start hiking! The flora and fauna of Hana await!!	2003-12-31
US	49269744	R4J49OPOIDSJY	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	4	6	7	N	N	You Would Be Well Served If You Got This Book!!	Are You Being Served was one of the first, and for my money, probably the very best Britcom shown on PBS. Pre-Monty Python, the humor relied on timeless British wit rather than on the physical comedy which has predominated in the 30 years since it's debut. What a joy to see fabulous British actors doing what they do best---speaking the Queen's English with unmatched ability, the better to show that great use of language allied with a wonderful sense of humor makes for unparalleled entertainment. This book traces the history of the show, reviews and rates each episode, profiles the cast and director, and, in the most enjoyable chapter of all, reveal the actual processes by which episodes were made at Sheppard's Bush studios. Since this book seems very much aimed at an American audience, it would be nice if the author spent some time discussing the differences between British and American television: How much are British actors paid, why so few episodes were made per season, etc. Still, it is wonderful to see actors who care more about &quot;mucking in&quot; and helping each other out rather than screaming about lack of pay, etc. In the British system, the play (or sitcom) is the thing, and I, for one, appreciate the difference (not to mention a much higher level of talent overall!). In sum, an excellent book and a great companion for your next Are You Being Served watching party, where hopefully, the partygoers get to dress as their favorite characters! Just be sure to plan carefully; we wouldn't want a party where everyone would come dressed as Mrs. Slocombe and Mr. Humphries, now would we?? On second thought, it might be more fun that way!!!	2003-12-21
US	49269744	R3MDXF9YDZCB1U	0896103978	671793135	Leis, Luaus, and Alohas: The Lure of Hawai'i in the Fifties (Island Treasures)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Get this Book if You Can Find It--Wiki, Wiki!!!	Retro Hawaiian chic----it's a happening trend!! First published about five years too soon for the now-oh-so-hot design theme of Old Hawaii (assuming you consider the 1950's old, you old goat!), Fred Basten's book is nothing more or less than a 100+ page collection of vintage photos, postcards, matchbook covers, and (best of all) 1950's advertisements depicting the joys which await you in tropical, scenic Hawaii! Here are the famous Aloha Airlines advertising maps, the Dole Pineapple ads, and the delightful hotel ads that make you want to pick up a phone, dial the number (you had to do that back then---no buttons!), and book a room. There are plenty of breathtaking photographs as well, from scenic drives to sunsets to tourists at play (including a few of the author himself!). And it's nice to see some things never change: the luau menu printed on page 104 is almost exactly identical to the menu of the Old Lahina Luau, Maui, circa 2003. (Right down to the coconut cake for dessert!) Two minor quibbles: at 111 pages, it's at least two hundred pages too short! (With all the pictures, if it were longer it would cost $50, but I for one would gladly pay it.) Also, Basten has made the decision to keep the written text as short as possible and let the pictures speak for themselves. Even though I think this is a wise move, I would have welcomed some more discussion about Hawaii in the fifties, how it became a state, etc. Still, the fabulous photos and other displayed goodies will have you planning your next trip right away. Not an easy book to find outside of Hawaii (I found mine in a famous Hawaiian retail store.), but worth the effort. So, get this book wiki, wiki (quickly). Your coffee table is bare without it. Aloha!!!	2003-12-20
US	49269744	RYFK9QOV3QVMA	0020306652	778679666	Ball Four: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Knuckle(ball)head Who Started It!!!	Ball Four, Jim Bouton's fine diary about life with the Seattle Pilots and Houston Astros in the year 1969 (the same year man landed on the Moon), has been hailed as a groundbreaking, revolutionary book about baseball, sports, and life in general. Most people are correct when they say it was the first truely successful &quot;tell-all&quot; book, pointing out the human fallacies of such superstars as Mickey Mantle, Elston Howard, and Alvin Dark, as well as the dubious effectiveness of executives in general and managers in particular. Most critics are also correct when they say that this book violated the sanctity of the locker-room by showing a professional sports team as a profane, prank-filled, rather juvenile bunch of guys rather than as cardboard heroes. Still, many people who write about Ball Four miss it's most significant contribution, one voiced by Bouton himself: He told the American public how much (and, more importantly), how little professional athletes really made at the time. According to Jim, most people read the headlines and knew that Mickey Mantle made $100,000 a year or so in the mid-1960's. But they didn't realize that Yankee rookies (the team Bouton started his career with) only made $7000 a year, and that Jim himself only made a salary in the low 20's even after three years of experience, twenty wins a season, and two World Series wins as a pitcher! In other words, most people felt that if Mantle made 100K, then Elston Howard, Tom Tresh, Jim Bouton, and other Yankees of the day must have made about 40-60K each season. The fact that Bouton broke the most sacred code of all and TOLD HOW MUCH MONEY PLAYERS EARNED (or not, as the case may be) made him a pariah to the baseball establishment and forced his exclusion from Yankee's Old Timer games for the next quarter century. Still, you may ask, why would I want to read this 30-year old book? The funny stories, the rude and crude language, the camaraderie among a group which binds them together despitesignificant differences? Yes, and something much more fundamental. Jim Bouton is the champion of the outsider, the knucklehead, the rebel in all of us who feels, right or wrong, that no matter how good he gets, he will never truly fit in. His daily diary entries prove that all of us, even professional athletes, suffer from what actor Roy Schieder called &quot;flop sweat,&quot; i.e., fear of failure. This quality, along with all the wild, zany, and utimately touching stories, makes Ball Four such an excellent read after all these years. Pick up Ball Four today. You'll find that no matter how much you sometimes feel a misfit, you'll always have a champion in Jim!	2003-12-09
US	49269744	R2QS8E7W7348JG	0306809605	482824645	The Nol Coward Diaries	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Every Year At Christmas....Noel Coward!!!	Virtually every person I know has a favorite Christmas tradition, an activity that they perform every year that is theirs and theirs alone, and that sums up the Christmas spirit of peace, good will, and love. For my own tradition, every year at this time, I reread this wonderful book. Why, you may ask? Well, I'll do my best to explain. I received this book as a Christmas present from a dear friend when it was first published in 1982. It quickly became my favorite book, and I find that it both inspires and delights me with every new reread. I was an actor and theatre person for many years, just long enough to discover one truth about Sir Noel Coward: This stylish and elegant man, actor, singer, playwright par excellence, and all around bon vivant, simply knew more about life in general and the theatre in particular than any other person I've ever encountered. Whether dealing with stubborn, recalcitrant actresses who refuse to wear their hair properly (i.e. Mary Martin), or facing the loss of a livelong confidant (his personal secretary, Lorn Loraine), Coward's show of sheer courage, strength, and determination in facing the everyday stresses and strains of life, and with considerable humor and great goodwill, seems to me the essence of the Christmas (and, by extension, the human) spirit. Organized in chapters by the years the diary entries were made (1945 to 1969, with a prologue that covers the World War II years as one section), the book is a very relaxed and enjoyable read (usually, a chapter a night works well), and covers the time period of the years following his initial successes (by the time the entries begin, Coward had already written his best known works: Private Lives, Desigh for Living, Hay Fever, and Blithe Spirit) through the 1950's and the years of abuse at the hands of narrow-minded critics (who considered him too &quot;shallow&quot; and &quot;commercial&quot;), and on through the 1960's and his renaissance period (when many of those same critics found his plays fashionable once again). Through it all, the successes, tragedies and failures, the many, many encounters with the rich and famous (Coward knew virtually every famous person of his day and counted many as lifelong friends), and most of all, the wit and wisdom of one of the most fascinating persons of our time will keep the devoted reader enthralled for all 700 plus pages. I could say much more about The Noel Coward Diaries, but a hundred reviews could not contain it all, so I will close by saying please make this book a present for yourself (and/or someone you love). Trust me, it will be one of the wittiest, most delightful, and truly Merriest Christmases you have ever spent!!!	2003-12-06
US	49269744	R3AGS4K3KZ612A	0816038473	766958548	The Encyclopedia of TV Game Shows	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Most Neglected Chapter of Television History!!!	One of the most sadly neglected styles of program in all of television history has been the TV game show. Despite the fact that throughout the latter half of the twentieth century, one or more of the top rated shows on TV has been a game show, whether &quot;What's My Line&quot; or &quot;Wheel of Fortune,&quot; the format has been criticized by lovers of &quot;serious&quot; television as being &quot;exploitive&quot; of women, &quot;anti-intellectual trash&quot; or &quot;merely entertainment&quot; (as if entertaining the public is a bad thing.) However, The Encyclopedia of TV Game Shows proves that these charges are, for the most part, without merit. In fact, during the medium's earliest days in the 1950's, some of the wittiest and most urbane shows were panel shows, i.e., a type of game show featuring a panel of celebrities, and not just movie stars, either! Great minds from the worlds of publishing, journalism, and the theatre such as Bennett Cerf, Abe Burrows, and Dorothy Kilgallen were regular guests into our homes each week as well. (The notion that game shows were &quot;trashy&quot; probably came from the popularity of the mostly horrible Chuck Barris-produced shows of the late sixites-early seventies, such as The Gong Show, The $1.98 Beauty Pagent, and Three's a Crowd. Thankfully, unlike Goodson-Todman and Merv Griffin, he does not rate his own chapter in this book.) Every single game show produced from the late 1940's until 1999 is covered here, and most are given their proper amount of space. (A few, such as Press Your Luck, seem to be shortchanged, but only a few.) An update is absolutely necessary as of this writing, as the game show has just made a marvelous comeback, thanks mostly to the success of Who Wants to be a Millionaire? Also, a little more space might be devoted to individual personalities, such as the great Bill Cullen, arguably the greatest and certainly the busiest host in history, and a heartwarming success story in his own right. (He overcame polio at an early age, which left him with a permanent limp; if you watch his shows carefully, he is almost never shown walking.) But, these are minor quibbles. The Encyclopedia of TV Game Shows is a great book for game show novice and aficionado alike, and is a welcome addition to a most neglected chapter of television history!	2003-11-30
US	49269744	RZLQTHZXYD9MP	0060920114	615600043	When Do Fish Sleep? and Other Imponderables of Everyday Life	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Belongs in Everyone's Bathroom!!	One of my best friends has assembled a rather amazing library of some 200 books: quote books, trivia books, fact books, you name it. The most interesting facet of his collection is the place where it resides--in his bathroom!!! Furthermore, David Feldman's wonderful series of Imponderables books has a place of honor in his library--right next to the toilet paper! (Needless to say, he is a bachelor as of this writing!) When Do Fish Sleep? is Feldman's third book in the series, and one of the best, in that more time is spent pondering questions that people really do care about, such as: &quot;Why do gas gauges take an eternity to go from registering full to half full, and then drop to empty in the speed of light?&quot; (I think we've all been there!) Feldman receives most of his imponderables from readers of the previous volumes, seeks out experts in the relevent fields to answer them (In the above example, that person is Anthony H Siegel of Ametek's US Gauge Division), and prints their response. If no one expert knows the definitive answer, Feldman will print the most prevalent theories instead. There are also many charming and funny illustrations to keep the material from getting too dry. There is also a section in the back called Frustables, which deals with Imponderables that are not easily solved, and their corresponding theories. Finally, the most important feature of this and any other Imponderables book: The articles are just the right length to read when seated &quot;upon the throne.&quot; (Well, most of them are, anyway!) So, get When Do Fish Sleep and other Imponderables books right away. Feldman's ready wit will keep you entertained and keep you from having to make that sometimes painful search for reading matter the next time nature calls!	2003-11-01
US	49269744	R3E0VD949O66WO	0743223136	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	At Heart, A Simple Massachusettes Farmer!!!	Once in a generation or so, a history or biography will be written that will entirely change public perception of a famous man or event in history. John Adams by David McCullough is such a book, so packed with new insight and wisdom into the life of our second president, that public perception is slowly (ever so slowly) changing about the man and his place in history. Even after 200 years, the name John Adams still stirs great passions in those who would study our early history: was he in fact, despite his often gruff, boisterous exterior, at heart a very simple, humble farmer from Massachusettes, or was he merely &quot;obnoxious and disliked,&quot; (as the musical 1776 would have you believe) and inferior to the great Thomas Jefferson as both a man and a world leader? McCullough presents Adams as a fallable man, warts and all so to speak, who accomplished many great things (writing the Massachusettes constitution, his geat diplomatic work in Europe) as well as his obvious failures (the ill-advised Alien and Sedition acts, under which anyone who spoke treason against the President or country would be fined). Drawn primarily from the voluminous Adams Papers, a lifetime of correspondence between Adams, his often-heroic wife Abigail, his &quot;good&quot; son John Quincy, and the kindly-but-politically-minded Jefferson, among others, what emerges is a very real human being, confident but torn by doubt, a man who possessed great love for his wife, farm, and country, but who often could not trust the leaders of his own party. Two relationships stand out: Adams and his wife Abigail, a pillar of common sense and resourcefulness, but a woman more fragile than she often let on; and Adams and Jefferson, whose mutual loves of farming, American Independence, and the great philosophers gradually overcame their political differences and, with the aid of mutual friend and fellow Declaration signer Dr. Benjamin Rush, rekindle a warm friendship in their old age. Yes, all this and BenFranklin, too; the elder sage comes off a shade more manipulative than his usual image as the agreeable old grandfather of the Revolution. In sum, John Adams is a thoroughly researched, thoroughly worthwhile biography so enjoyable as to engage the reader time and again, while quite possibly restoring the public image of one of America's greatest early patriots.	2003-10-28
US	49269744	R3DOINBW6EKMSR	0824823303	472935319	Isles of Refuge	Books	4	10	10	N	N	This Book is For the Birds!!	Isles of Refuge is indeed a wonderful book that covers the history, ecology, and most important, the BIOLOGY of the Northwest Hawaiian Islands that stretch from Nihoa in the Southeast (approx. 150 miles northwest of Kauai) to Kure Atoll in the northwest (about 1000 miles northwest of Hawaii). Isles deals with an important topic, one never before covered so extensively in print: how these islands came to be, how they were first inhabited by humans, their role in armed conflicts (particularly Midway atoll), and their current status. This book is a lovely read, no question about it. But, let's get one thing straight: The primary focus of Isles of Refuge is BIOLOGY, pure and simple. The vast majority of the text deals with the area's status as a fragile ecosystem, and attempts (largely successful) to clean up debris and maintain ecological balance. Yes, the history and native folklore are dealt with (in fact, one of the best chapters concerns reinternment of ancestral remains on Nihoa), but the primary focus is biology in general and wildlife in particular. In fact, several of the more prominent species, such as Hawaiian monk seals, are covered in their own little sections. Most importantly, this is a BIRD book. There are more photos and printed text dealing with the native birds than any other subject of the book BY FAR. Whether terns or albatrosses or \\"goony birds\\" (as they are called on Midway, the only inhabited island), the reader had best be very, very interested in our feathered friends before deciding to read this text. Not that the book is dull, far from it. Rauzon's prose is easy to read, very untextbook-like, and his adventures, whether scaling peaks on Nihoa or trying to time a dangerous landing on Necker, are always fascinating. There are excellent photos; most readers would like to see more of them (although I think the reason there are so few photos is that the author has been allowed to make only a few trips to the refuge). Better and more specific maps would also be helpful. Finally, so much has happened in the last few years (in 2000, the Northwest Hawaiian Islands Refuge was officially established by executive order.) that an update is sorely needed. In sum, an excellent book, well written and documented, and one you will no doubt enjoy, particularly if you are a lover of birds and wildlife.would also be helpful. Finally, so much has happened in the last few years (in 2000, the Northwest Hawaiian Islands Refuge was officially established by executive order.) that an update is sorely needed. In sum, an excellent book, well written and documented, and one you will no doubt enjoy, particularly if you are a lover of birds and wildlife.	2003-10-04
US	49269744	R4TT4O96SL0RF	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	2	3	N	N	We Are A Band of Brothers....!	Someone once said that John Grisham's novels were \\"White collar crime novels in which you root for the criminal.\\" After reading a number of his books, it seems to me that these are modern Arabian Nights tales: Ordinary people finding a genie in a bottle who will grant all their wishes and help them live happily ever after. In this case, the \\"ordinary\\" men are three former judges serving time in a minimum-security federal prison for (relatively) minor crimes. Bored with dispensing jailhouse justice for other inmates, they stumble upon their genie: a personal ad, placed in a gay magazine, seeking companionship, with a killer (no pun intended) photo as bait. The bretheren ensnare several men, blackmail them, and watch their secret bank account in the Bahamas grow. The lawyer on the outside who helps them has his own dreams: to purchase a sailboat and spend the rest of his days cruising (again, no pun intended) the Carribean. Suddenly, the drama intensifies: their well-placed ad snares the wrong man, a rising congressman who has just been hand selected by the longtime CIA director to be the next president of the United States! Life is now exciting for congressman and new presidential candidate Aaron Lake: he is young, vibrant, and with plenty of money behind him, sure to win in November. But, behind the scenes, his life and his every move are now controlled by CIA Director and puppetmaster Teddy Maynard (modeled, no doubt, on J Edgar Hoover; Grisham has a fascination with the man, as he has been a character in one form or another in several novels). How these two unrelated stories intersect and entangle, how millions of dollars changes hands, and how one of the above characters meets a surprise and premature ending---all these events and more are deftly woven together in Grisham's masterful style. At novels end, the genie is uncorked (so to speak), our three judges enter Paradise (but is it heaven...or only Europe?)and now-President Lake is able to pack his prior life back in the closet where it belongs. But, be sure to read to the very end. Could it be.....deja vu? Only the genie (Grisham) knows for sure!	2003-10-03
US	49269744	R2BR7FBBMEJ6NZ	037550768X	548644763	Dear Donald, Dear Bennett: The Wartime Correspondence of Bennett Cerf and Donald Klopfer	Books	2	13	16	N	N	My, How the Publishing Business Has Changed!	Before browsing through Dear Donald, Dear Bennett, the reader should immediately peruse a copy of At Random, Bennett Cerf's memoirs, so he has a chance of understanding what he is reading in this book. I can't believe Random House would treat the personal letters of their founders in such a shabby fashion. Virtually no footnotes, no annotation, no index---nothing. They might as well be putting out the memoirs of Anna Nicole Smith, rather than the keepers of one of the great literary storehouses of the twentieth century. Before spending any money assembling this volume for publication (if indeed they spent any at all!), the editors should have acquired a copy of The Noel Coward Diaries and followed it religiously as a guide. In that volume, Graham Payn and Sheridan Morely obviously spent months poring over every inch of copy, meticulously footnoting each and every name and archane reference so that upon completion, the reader would easily be able to tell the difference between Bob Menzies and Bobby Andrews, the Duke of Kent from the Duke of Windsor, and easily tell whether Sir Noel was writing about Elizabeth Taylor the film star, Elizabeth Taylor the English novelist, or Elizabeth Taylor the non-celebrity dear friend to Coward's inner circle. Here, the editors (who are unnamed and rightly so) merely say that Saxe Commins was a senior editor at Random House and Robert Haas a partner without furthur definition. (More time is spent discussing the typeface of this volume than virtually anything else.) Most readers of these letters would be interested in the details such annotation would provide. Yes, the letters do paint a wonderful picture of the day-to-day operations of the company, the trials and tribulations of America at war, and the deep affection between the two men. It's a shame the present-day editors at Random House did not see fit to put together a better tribute of their founding fathers.	2003-09-22
US	49269744	R3KCI8U4GORWQ7	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A Read You Can't Refuse!!!	Not many works of fiction can claim to have significantly changed the face of American culture; Mario Puzo's classic novel The Godfather is surely one of those. Look at the evidence: This book (and the wonderful cinematic counterpart) reintroduced the gangster as an American icon. It helped to spawn entire new genres in fiction and films. (Some critics suggest there should be an entirely new designation for this genre and have dubbed it &quot;The Eastern&quot;.) Of course, it introduced that classic catchphrase &quot;I'll make him an offer he can't refuse.&quot; Finally, it introduced one of the great heroic criminals into literature in the person of Don Vito Corleone (a character reportedly based on Puzo's own mother). Yes, it is true that the movie and not the novel must take much of this credit, but this work is hardly the two-star pulp trash that a few misguided critics have made it to be. It's solid all the way through, particularly the fabulous portrayals of the ruthless gentleman Don Vito and his family, epecially  the sons: hotheaded Sonny (whose penchant for needless violence proves fatal), cowardly Freddie (who is spooked by the Don's near-assasination and runs away to Las Vegas), and, most memorably, cool, reserved Michael (who, in the end, proves a tactical genius truly worthy to be called his father's son.) Also, don't forget the fabulous cast of supporting characters: singers Johnny Fontaine and Nino Valenti (read: Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin), and the many minor players such as Luca Brasi and Amerigo Bonserai, who literally owe their very existence to the Don's generosity. And the women!!! Such marvels of strength, tenacity and character presented in blindly obidient Connie, questioning Kay, and the Don's own wife, who knows much more than she reveals. Her tutoring of Kay into the Sicilian way of life ends the book on a high note. Puzo makes these character studies work because he gives each person his own little spotlight; by chapter's end, you know why each one has chosen to become a family member or confidant. The chapters showing the Don's rise to power, subsequent fall, and rebirth are the highpoints of the book, as the newer, more ruthless families seek to destroy the Corleone's sacred honor by forcing them into trafficking drugs. Yes, in the end, it is Michael who prevails, but the action is so good that the climax is not spoiled by knowing the outcome in advance. The reader will want to visit this novel time and again for it's unique perspectives on honor, justice, and The American Dream.	2003-09-21
US	49269744	R3CR5BKAPHOBCA	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Offer He Couldn't Refuse!!!	&quot;A base salary of eighty thousand the first year, plus bonuses. Eighty-five the second year, plus bonuses. A low-interest mortgage so you can buy a home. Two country-club memberships. And a new BMW.&quot; That is THE DEAL as presented to Harvard Law graduate Mitchell Y McDeere to get him to join the firm of Bendini, Lambert, and Locke and spend the rest of his working life in Memphis, as opposed to New York or Chicago. With a deal like that, how could McDeere refuse? He couldn't, and doesn't, which is entirely what the partners of The Firm are counting on, because this is not just any firm. It's an elaborate money laundering facility for the Morolto crime family of Chicago, and Mitch has just pledged to join a firm he can never leave, unless he retires or dies. Mitch doesn't know this at first, of course, but there are tantalizing clues: a gruesome gallary of former colleagues portraits in the basement, a visit by a mysterious man who works for the FBI, and repeated encounters with Nathan Locke, the serpentine senior partner with the haunting eyes who is rarely seen by the other associates. The plot builds climax upon climax, suspense upon suspense, and is just as riveting as the Tom Cruise movie made from it in 1993 that cemented Grisham's reputation as a master novelist. Each subsequent novel by the author is built on similar lines; what makes The Firm stand out? Answer: THE DEAL. Grisham obviously knows how good such a deal would sound to a reader, and he wants the reader to gain empathy with the partners and associates who have not broken the vow of silence. This deal must sound so good to these men (they are all white men) and so tantalizing, that the reader implicitly understands their thought process: If I can only look the other way for twenty years or so, I can retire in my forties with money to burn. You will want to return to this book time and again to savor the thrills, the suspense, and yes, THE DEAL!	2003-09-16
US	49269744	R15YWKNEHUC2FI	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	4	92	109	N	N	Deja Vu All Over Again!!!	You've read Bleachers, John Grisham's newest bestseller, many times in a thousand other books, many of them better than this somewhat undersized novel. The general atmosphere of high school football which consumes an entire town has been told better in Friday Night Lights. The harsh treatment of young football hopefuls by dictator-coaches was brought into cruel focus in the non-fiction Junction Boys, about Bear Bryant and a legendary sweatbox training camp for his players during his first summer at Texas A&amp;M. And, of course, keeping vigil for an impending death has been literally done to death many times, notably in Edward Albee's Pulitzer-Prize winning play All Over. So, why read Bleachers? Because, once again, the fresh, newspaper-like quality of John Grisham's minimalist prose draws us into the story and makes us love and, in our own ways, relate to all the characters, saint and sinner alike. Here, we have Neely Crenshaw, the gifted ex-quarterback who can't forgive Coach Eddie Rake for one moment of lockerroom abuse; Cameron, the ex-girlfriend whom he jilted in high school and who cannot fully forgive him; Mal, the ex-player turned lawman who has his own chilling tale to tell; and finally, the ex-teammates who meet spontanously in the bleachers of the old stadium awaiting news of the coach's impending death. They meet shyly, hesitantly at first, then start to drink and tell stories while listening to a tape broadcast of their most famous game. (Their shared stories as they relive this game are the undisputed high point of the book.) Yes, we even have the memorial service in which our ex-quarterback and (believe it or not) our dearly departed coach get the chance to have a final say. We know the outcome of this story as surely as Friday night football in the South. Why retell it? Because it is a very touching and human story and like all the best stories, deserves to be told again and again. (Besides, it'a a short book, and quick readers will finish it in a matter of hours.) In short, a good reaffirmation of life, the human spirit, and football in all it's glory.	2003-09-15
US	49269744	R2J3CRFG8YVDUF	0879306246	133278754	Cream: The Legendary Sixties Supergroup	Books	4	17	17	N	N	More Cream than Harvey's Bristol!	Rock journalist Chris Welch, who helped spread the gospel according to Cream in the pages of that wonderful British rock journal Melody Maker, gives us a wonderful overview of one of the most influential bands of the sixties. Each member is profiled in a personal interview section (including Pete Brown, the poet and semi-official \\"fourth member\\" of Cream who cowrote many of the bands hits with bassist Jack Bruce.) These reminiscences are candid and straightforward (Ginger Baker's especially so) and show both dizzying highs (the Fillmore West and Winterland concerts) and profound lows (Eric Clapton's angst over the famous Rolling Stone article which proclaimed him \\"master of the blues cliches.\\")The book also shows how even a great record company like Atlantic can fail to capitalize on the band's unique genius. (According to Jack Bruce, they were more interested in the Bee Gees.)It's a great read, with one or two minor quibbles. Even though there is some detail about the band member's post-Cream activities, more would be welcome, especially concerning Ginger Baker's alleged financial difficulties. Also, in the otherwise excellent diary section (a great idea, by the way), concert dates and recording sessions are chronicled thoroughly, yet there is no mention of the supporting act at the famous August 2, 1966 gig at Klook's Kleek. This was truly an historic occasion, as that supporting act was none other than Savoy Brown, and the concert not only helped break both bands, but also got Savoy Brown their first recording contract and began a musical legacy that is still going strong today. Other than these minor flaws, the book is very well written and deserves a place on your shelf, next to your Eric Claption biographies.	2003-09-13
US	49269744	R32UITRLA5DMNI	0970133278	549398891	Blues-Rock Explosion (Sixties Rock Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Old Goats at Play	Old Goat Publishing Company, located in Mission Viejo, California, is a group of elite rock music writers who have come together for a common purpose: Bring the vibrant music scene of the 1960's to life in a series of books that are painstakingly researched and meticulously detailed. Blues-Rock Explosion, the first offering in this series, delivers 42 profiles of many of the seminal groups of the so-called &quot;Blues Revival Movement of 1968.&quot; Generously assisted by recollections from many of the principals involved, Blues-Rock explosion paints a vibrant portrait of a (primarily British) scene suffused with excitement, as the musicians start by slavishly imitating the great American bluesmen like Howlin Wolf and Muddy Waters, then grow by leaps and bounds to create an entirely new genre (blues-rock) that forms the basis for much of popular music's later development into hard rock and heavy metal. One could argue for inclusion of more bands, such as, say, the Animals and Led Zeppelin, but the author's decision to limit the time period covered (from roughly the mid-1960's until 1973) puts sensible boundaries around the subject, making the book's length a very manageable 300 pages instead of 900. Several future Rock and Roll Hall of Famers are detailed in these portraits (the Allman Brothers, Cream, Eric Clapton, and the Yardbirds), but just as compelling are the chapters concerning artists whose careers were cut short by tragedy (the Mark Leeman Five, Jo Ann Kelly). Also, even though it is not surprising that many of the British artists played with and were influenced by each other (since England is a smallish country), it is a great pleasure to read that Chicago in the 1960's remained a vital component of the blues scene, contributing such greats as Electric Flag, the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, Mike Bloomfield, and Nick Gravenites. Last, and perhaps most important, Blues-Rock Explosion finally spotlights such long-neglected heavyweights as Savoy Brown, Chicken Shack, Canned Heat, and Ten Years After, many of whom are not only still alive in the 21st Century, but are still contributing relevant, listenable new albums to those of us who never tired of hearing the blues in its many incarnations. Good luck and continued success to the Old Goats for continuing to believe that these great artists are still worthy of our attention.	2003-09-08
US	49269744	R2DJ9N964U28J8	0394478770	107339206	At Random: The Reminiscences of Bennett Cerf	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Cerf's Up!!!	When all of us who are now officially Older Than Dirt were growing up back in the 1960's, we usually aspired to be one of three particular men of achievement. For those of us with an athletic bent, Mickey Mantle was the man of choice. For those adventurers and dreamers among us, John Glenn appeared to offer the perfect life. Finally, for us bookish sorts, Bennett Cerf, publisher of Random House, panelist on \\"What's My Line,\\" author of some of the worst puns ever written, and all around man about town, was who we aspired to be. This book is in essence his memoirs, told in oral history format just a short time before his unexpected death in 1971. He describes in detail why he was able to grow Random House at such a rapid rate: in his day, the book business was a stuffy one, and no publisher worth his salt would dream of lowering himself to seek out new authors. Bennett, being young, foolish, and very intelligent, would travel to wherever these authors lived and impress them with his obvious wit and sincerity. The sheer number and weight of authors whose service he was able to acquire through these means was absolutely staggering: Eugene O'Neill, James Joyce, Robinson Jeffers, Gertrude Stein, and Bill Styron, to name a very few. Through his liberal editing policies, he was even able to publish authors whose ideas he completely disagreed with, such as Ayn Rand. Some, like playwright Moss Hart, became lifelong friends. Although New Yorkers have long thought of their city as the center of the universe, Bennett's long and storied career made many believe it was true. The reader will enjoy his chatty, breezy style time and again, as a reminder that at one time, in the world of books and publishing, one man truly made a difference.	2003-08-31
US	49269744	R4AOOKV0Y4FOS	0060925779	664122214	The Wit & Wisdom of Winston Churchill	Books	5	111	114	N	N	Your finest hours will be spent reading this book!!!	Be forewarned. The words of Sir Winston Churchill are not for everyone. If you are too timid, sensitive, politically correct, Victorian in outlook, or do not drink, you are not the ideal audience for this book. However, if you love stirring speeches, great epigrams, and explosive wit, then Winston is your man. Divided into several sections, the first deals with epigrams concerning subjects in general, for example; History--&quot;A nation that forgets its past has no future.&quot; The next section deals with excepts from his most famous speeches: Their Finest Hour, Blood, Sweat, and Tears, etc. Then, Coiner of Phrases, a section dealing with famous words or sayings first attributed to him,  such as Destroyer, for &quot;light search and destroy vessel.&quot;  Next, Saints and Sinners, a section reserved for his opinions of the great (and nearly great) of the world; his opinion of former Prime Minister David Lloyd George: &quot;He could talk a bird out of a tree.&quot; Finally, the last (and best) section, Escapades and Encounters (aka Winston's Wit). Yes, here we have the famous Lady Nancy Astor story (I won't spoil it for you here), another famous (and politically incorrect) encounter with Labourite Bessie Braddock, and the hilarous story The World Is Not My Oyster, in which the eighty-six year old Churchill blames his indisposition on the oysters served at the Savoy Grill, not the numerous glasses of wine he consumed there. So, grab a glass of your favorite port or sherry (or a snifter of brandy, if you must), sink into a comfortable chair with a favorite snack and this book, and INDULGE YOURSELF. Trust me, it will be one (or more) of your finest hours.	2003-08-25
US	49269744	R36TFA7PQDBNO3	0946719373	555529852	Free At Last: The Story of Free and Bad Company	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Really should have been a Paul Kossoff biography	Imagine a book about Free and Bad Company--two of the most seminal acts in rock and roll history--and then find out that the text is just over 200 pages long! That is the book that Steven Rosen has given us with Free at Last. Since brilliant singer Paul Rodger's solo career alone is worth 200 pages, the reader may feel somewhat cheated. Rosen does fill us in on the important details: the birth and later demise of Free, the rise of Bad Company, a short history of Swan Song records; all told in an overly economic style that leaves the reader wanting more. Aside from the occasional factual error (The Hendrix Set, Paul's Jimi Hendrix tribute recorded with Neal Schon, was done live, not in the studio), Rosen frustrates the reader with his inability to stick to one subject. Case in point: Paul Rodgers is repeatedly described as basically a nice guy subject to occasional fits of moodiness. Only when the book is almost complete does Rosen mention, almost in passing, the likely reason: Rodgers rages were probably fueled by alcohol. (He has since cleaned up his act and is &quot;a picture of positivism&quot; (sic)). Also, Bad Company is given short shrift in these pages. (They get less space, it seems, than Paul Kossoff's solo act Back Street Crawler.) Finally, Steve Rosen spends as much time on Kossoff as all the other principals in the book combined. This fact, coupled with the writer's obvious infatuation of the guitarist and his abilities, may lead the reader to conclude that Rosen really wanted to write a biography of Kossoff, but decided to expand his work to include Free and BadCo so it would sell. In short, basically a good read with some interesting anecdotes, but the definitive treatment of these two groups is yet to be written.	2003-08-19
US	49269744	R1O6D528PNBZLB	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Underdogs, gamblers, and fighters	Here it is: the quintessential American saga for the ages. &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is the ultimate, true tale of what it means to start poor, to feel rejected and abandoned, to travel life's toughest roads; and yet, to never give up, never give in, until your dreams are finally fulfilled. All the characters are as richly drawn as those in a Damon Runyan short story. They include: Charles Howard, the self-made automotive magnate who knew early heartbreak and loss through the death of his own son in, of all things, an auto accident; Tom Smith, the high plains cowboy drifter who was the original Horse Whisperer of his day; Red Polland and George Woolf, the self-made, plucky jockeys, who undertook some of the most horrific training methods known to sport; and Seabiscuit, the ungainly horse who lost many, many races in his early years before finally finding his stride. Ms Hillenbrand, herself an unlikely heroine in her real-life battle with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, weaves these characters into a delightful tapestry that the reader will want to savor again and again. The climactic match race between Seabiscuit and Triple-Crown winner War Admiral is alone worth the price of the book, as western upstarts are pitted against blueblooded eastern racing establishment. Finally, don't forget the acknowledgements and interview sections at the end of the book for insight into the author's writing and thought processes. I guarantee when you finish the book (and watch the Oscar-worthy movie version) that you will want to make a beeline for the nearest racetrack and bet two dollars on a longshot, for &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is proof enough that, here in America, the odds are never too long to have a chance at success.	2003-08-08
US	49269744	R1INVJ5TQFM783	076790477X	708746530	Great Wine Made Simple: Straight Talk from a Master Sommelier	Books	5	22	23	N	N	At War with the Wine Snob	Here it is at last! Andrea Immer, herself a master sommelier, has written the definitive guide to selecting, buying, and ultimately, enjoying wine. Her approach is unique: limit her discussions to the Big Six varietals: riesling, chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, pinot noir, merlot, and cabernet sauvignon, which together account for the vast majority of wine sales in the world today, and proceed accordingly. (Hopefully, in future editions, she will include more discussion on those fast-rising varietals pinot grigio and shiraz.) She proceeds through discussions of tasting and paring with food, as does any other good wine-buying guide. What makes Ms. Immer's approach unique is that she MAKES WINE FUN!!! In doing this, she's going against the grain of centuries of wine snobbery and elitism. She believes wine should be demystified and its joys revealed TO EVERYONE, not just a select few who can afford $50-$100 a bottle. She does this by including unique wine tasting exercises, such as pairing wines with their opposites to give a clear understanding of the concept. (Example: dry riesling tasted with sweet riesling so the reader can immediatly see the difference.) She also includes plenty of names of sample wines you can test with, including many low-priced bottles. In short, her vision, clarity, and above all, SENSE OF HUMOR make this a must-read for everyone interested in wine who detests snobbery and pretension.	2003-07-29
US	49269744	R78NPF13FDDMZ	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Anyone for Quidditch???	All the Harry Potter gang is back for the fifth installment of Ms. Rowlings phantasmagorical epic: Weasleys, Slytherins, Hufflepuffs, etc. However, the reader should be aware that all is not jam and treacle in Hogwarts: Harry is fifteen and suffers from adolescent angst, not to mention some very realistic nightmares and visions. In other words: prepare your young wizard or witch accordingly: This book may be too intense for very young readers. Also, Harry suffers a great, personal loss as someone very dear \\"shuffles off this mortal coil\\" (i.e.: dies). As Ms Rowling transforms from very good to great writer, she finds she can't resist satirising several institutions of British life, notably tabloid newspapers. Her sharp barbs also stick in the craw of the British education establishment, most notably in the toadlike personage of Ms. Dolores Umbridge, as pedantic a teacher as ever graced fiction. The reader will quickly finish all 870 pages and beg for more, especially to answer such questions as: Who will die? Will Ron and Hermoine ever get together?, and will Harry finally get to kick the Dursleys in the quaffle??? (Sorry, couldn't resist a little Quidditch joke.) Finally, it doesn't matter if you are fifteen years old or 50, and have ten kids or none: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (yes, the book explains what the Order of the Phoenix is) is pure, unadulterated fun, and you should get a copy right away!!!	2003-07-21
US	49269744	R2LXMDLBZDZ2OM	0415937116	363994281	Blues with a Feeling: The Little Walter Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	From child's toy to serious instrument	Until Little Walter started blowing, blues harp (harmonica) was little more than a child's toy: a cheap, portable method for making folk music, but more like a kazoo than a serious instrument. Little Walter revolutionized a musicians approach to the harmonica by playing it like a saxophone. Suddenly, this $2 band instrument could play full, rich swinging solos and improvisation. In this very readable text, the authors show that Walter was every bit the innovator on his instrument that Jimi Hendrix and Charlie Parker were to theirs: every single blues harp player since has shown his influence. Unfortunately, the authors also uncovered Walters dark side: his quick temper, his total lack of business sense, and the numerous backstreet brawls that shortened his life. Most important, they guide the reader through his songs as they are recorded, take by take, and show Walters consummate artistry as he continues a neverending search for even newer and more innovative sounds. A must-read for blues fans in general and fans of blues harmonica in particular.	2003-07-11
