US	49273902	RQX301Y3P9U8B	0671743791	146071674	The Maiden	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Just bad.	This takes place in Lanconia (where's that? I assumed someplace in Great Britain) in a hard to pin down era.  Rowan is a prince that has come to claim rulership that currently belongs to Jura's brother.  I am not sure how 2 people so at odds with each other could fall in love.  Rowan seemed like an ok guy except he just gets busy with a stranger - Jura - whom he encounters for the first time alone in the woods.  Jura was always being a bitch to Rowan, which I could kind of understand at first since he molests her, but if they are supposedly falling in love, there should be something that draws them together.  I found Jura mean and annoying.  I don't mind fights or obstacles, but there was no tenderness or romance between this couple.  Just fighting (often inexplicable) and sex.  The second half of the book is about alliances/war with neighboring tribes and liberating women captives in the mountains.  It was just not well done and it was difficult for me to care about the story, the couple or even want them to be together.	2005-02-17
US	49273902	R35MA4VV7DZDKH	0765343436	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fantasy Romance	Sorcha is the only daughter of an Irish Lord that has 6 sons.   The story is set some time in the Middle Ages (not sure exactly when) when Christianity is overtaking the old ways of the Druids.  The first 150 pages acquaint us with the children of the family and their personalities and talents.  Sorcha is only 13, but is a gifted healer nonetheless.  When their widowed father takes a new wife it changes their lives.  A spell is put on the family and Sorcha must complete an impossible task in order to break the spell.  She lives alone in the forest for awhile working to accomplish her goal, but when she is forced to leave, Sorcha is rescued/kidnapped and taken to a country that her people are at war with.<br />Sorcha's loyalty, dedication and determination are admirable.  She spends a long time in silence (part of the spell is that she can't speak) in a foreign country where she is disliked.  She cannot explain why she spends her days as she does and this makes her appear crazy.  While there, she falls in love with Hugh, the Lord of the Manor.  His family, friends and tenants can't understand why he brought her home in the first place and his interest in her baffles them.  Their explanation is that she put a spell on him.  Add Hugh's evil uncle and missing brother to the mix and there are sufficient obstacles to her breaking the curse and fulfilling her relationship.  <br />The ending is happy and predictable, but the way the story unfolds is very well done.  There is some telepathy, forest fairies and of course there is the spell itself, but they all fit neatly into the story and there is no unexpected magic.  Warning to readers that there is a brief scene of sexual violence.  <br />Overall, I really enjoyed the book.  The hundreds of pages flew by.  It was a well told fantasy romance that I believe will appeal much more to women as it is really a love story and there are no bloody battles.	2004-05-19
US	49273902	R3AX4KTDC57PYP	0802138578	555805000	Artemisia: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For Art History Lovers	This wonderful novel is about the life of 17th century female Italian painter Artemisia Gentileschi.  The first few chapters familiarize readers with all the elements that went into making a female artist at a time when the occupation was exclusively for men.  Readers are introduced to Italy, Artemisia's father, the painter Orazio Gentileschi, the intense rivalry between artists, and the fact that during that time, artists were celebrities seeking fame and fortune.  The next sections of the book, until almost the halfway point, are about Artemisia's relationship with Agostino Tassi and the trial that ensues.  Agostino was a friend and colleague of Artemisia's father and the man who takes her virginity out of wedlock - a crime the family must defend their honor against - and Tassi is accused of rape, arrested, and tried in Roman court.  <br />The author includes a great deal of historical fact, and speculates where documentation is missing, then seamlessly resumes the story so that the book reads like part history, part journalism and part storytelling.  However, the second half of the novel was more history with elements of a story than a story steeped in historical detail.  This may be due to the fact that the author is extremely faithful to the information of history and felt uncomfortable inventing motivations where there was not enough documentation to support such notions.  So, there are several periods of her life that feel like sketches and I wished that the author had invented some for the sake of the story and keeping me interested, but I also liked knowing that the events were grounded in research.  <br />Artemisia struggles throughout her life with her desire and drive to become a great painter and win the approval and recognition of her father.  Throughout the rest of the book Artemisia has love affairs, several children, and paints in Florence, Rome, and Naples to name a few places.  She participates in a great acquisition of masterpieces by the English, socializes with royalty and receives commissions from the papacy.  She lived a remarkable life, and enjoyed exceptional success and freedom for a woman.  I was so happy that there were color images of the most discussed paintings in the book, as well as maps that helped me to orient myself to the whereabouts of Artemisia in Italy and Europe.   I do recommend having access to the internet since you may want to view some other artworks mentioned.   <br />I didn't give this book 5 stars because there was a period about three quarters through the book when I was bored, but I persevered and the ending was satisfying and the book was excellent overall.	2004-04-05
US	49273902	R2MYJSQXD4MYRM	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Great character snippets, but hard to get into.	This book is about a group of people being held hostage in the house of the Vice President of an unnamed South American Country.  The South American country attempts to attract foreign business and hosts a birthday party in honor of Mr. Hosokawa, a Japanese businessman who they hope will bring money and jobs to the country.  He is persuaded to attend in spite of the fact that he has no intentions of bringing business to the country because he is obsessed with opera and he admires the guest singer Roxanne Coss.  The terrorists target is the President of the country, but when they find out that he is not in attendance at the party they decide to keep all of the guests hostage.      Gen is Mr. Hosokawa's translator and because of the number of languages spoken by the different guests in attendance, his skills are in demand.  Gen falls in love with Carmen, one of the terrorists holding them captive.  Roxanne discovers a singer among the terrorists, who it turns out are mostly young teenagers.  The terrorists aren't really such bad people once you get to know them.  Even Messner, the negotiator sent in by the Red Cross thinks that he wouldn't mind if these terrorists got away.      The first day takes 100 pages and it is a little boring and I found it hard to get into.  But then a large group of hostages is let go and the intimacy between the remaining people in the house begins to build as they spend days and weeks and more time together.  This is not the kind of book I normally read, but I did think it was worth reading because there are a number of characters and there are special passages where the author peeks into the souls of different types of people and shows you what they value in life.  But I never got a feeling of really knowing any one character and I thought that the opera singer and japanese business man deserved more page time.  It seemed like it took forever to reach the conclusion and at the same time, I thought that it was quick and sudden when it finally arrived.  Some will not like the ending, but it made sense to me.	2004-03-24
US	49273902	R1OOYCL0DBJHNW	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Entertaining enough, but not the most engaging characters.	Hannah Verde and her father fled the Spanish Inquisition after her mother was burned at the stake.  They arrive in England in the year 1548 and hide their Jewish faith in Protestant England.  Hannah had dressed as a boy to avoid harassment on the flight from Spain and after five years of living in England,  she continues to wear boys clothes in order to make assisting her father in his bookshop an easier task.  Her father's bookshop brings in many clients, including the royal Robert Dudley.  Robert Dudley takes special notice of the thirteen-year-old Hannah because she sees an angel over his shoulder and he believes she has the Sight.  He brings Hannah to court as the androgynous Holy Fool to the frail and dying teenage King Edward.  Once she has entered royal service, she finally meets Daniel, her betrothed, a student physician chosen by the Jewish matchmaker.  The promise of a life with him is something Hannah alternately wants and doesn't want, but it gives her a potential escape from the political upheaval that is to come in the next few years.<br />Upon Edward's death, we witness Queen Mary's struggle to ascend the throne with Hannah as her constant companion.  Hannah continues to work for 'Bloody' Queen Mary who changes the country's religion to Catholicism and persecutes several hundred people through torture and burning at the stake.  Mary trusts Elizabeth to spy on her Protestant sister Elizabeth and she spends much time with both women.  By the end of the book, Queen Mary's reign comes to an end.  If the author chose to write a sequel, although the book finishes with Hannah's personal story nicely concluded, there is room for another novel with more of Hannah and her young physician as well as Queen Elizabeth's court.<br />This novel was decently paced and I was fairly interested in the historical events of the time.  But I found that I just didn't care that much what happened to Hannah.  Although she is smart and has a life at court, I found that these characteristics were more statements than backed by events of the novel.  She is involved in plots and has multiple loyalties, but there is a simplistic innocence to the unfolding of events through her eyes that I found disappointing.  There is also a great deal of sympathy for Bloody Queen Mary and the hard life she had lived, her loveless marriage to the Spanish King Phillip, her odd failed pregnancies, her fatal illness and her constant deep depression.  Her faith and conviction, which lead to religious persecution were depicted as virtuous qualities.  But my biggest dissappointment in the novel was the fact that Hannah has the Sight, but it is so infrequent and useless in the book, that it didn't add to the story.<br />I thought the Queen's Fool was decent reading, but I didn't really enjoy it as much as I had hoped.  I think more of the Sight, a more complex presentation of the politics, more of the charismatic Elizabeth and more of what drives Hannah would have made this a better book.aracteristics were more statements than backed by events of the novel.  She is involved in plots and has multiple loyalties, but there is a simplistic innocence to the unfolding of events through her eyes that I found disappointing.  There is also a great deal of sympathy for Bloody Queen Mary and the hard life she had lived, her loveless marriage to the Spanish King Phillip, her odd failed pregnancies, her fatal illness and her constant deep depression.  Her faith and conviction, which lead to religious persecution were depicted as virtuous qualities.  But my biggest dissappointment in the novel was the fact that Hannah has the Sight, but it is so infrequent and useless in the book, that it didn't add to the story.<br />I thought the Queen's Fool was decent reading, but I didn't really enjoy it as much as I had hoped.  I think more of the Sight, a more complex presentation of the politics, more of the charismatic Elizabeth and more of what drives Hannah would have made this a better book.	2004-03-22
US	49273902	R3EFE8DVDDSLBB	038549730X	529809863	The Vine of Desire: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Sad story about recovery from grief, finding the right path.	Vine of Desire continues the story of Anju and Sudha whom we met in Sister of My Heart.  Even though Sudha and her daughter Dayita had already arrived in California at the end of the previous book, this book begins before they arrive in America to live with Anju and her husband Sunil.  I suppose it was to reorient us and to provide insight into Anju's state of mind after the loss of her child.  Sudha's visit was meant to help Anju recover from her grief while providing Sudha the time to think about her future now that she is a divorced single mother.  But the hurt and desires of the 3 adults living together is not a recipe for healing and they struggle to find the right path.  While America allows many personal freedoms they would not have in India, they are bound by the duty, tradition and honor that their heritage teaches.  The obvious love triangle - Sunil is married to Anju, but in love with Sudha - adds a great deal of tension.<br />The author uses several creative writing techniques in this book that were not present in Sister of My Heart.  For the most part, they helped me understand the inner conflicts of the characters.  In addition to the alternating chapters which show you the point of view of Sudha and Anju (that I was so fond of in Sister of My Heart) there are first person accounts from several of the men in the book including Sunil and chapters narrated in third person.  There are also letters back and forth between the mothers in India, the people in America, Sudha's suitors etc.  But several of the writing techniques were annoying.  The author frequently lists current events with special focus on the O.J. Simpson murder trial.  I understood the point of including these newsflashes, but I found it distracting.  She also has a tendency to overwrite a moment by repeating the characters feelings or continuing with descriptions of their feelings for longer than I would have liked.  <br />I have a great deal of respect for the way that the author successfully expanded her writing style and in turn expanded the reading experience.  It is essentially successful in spite of the minor flaws.  But all the characters are drowning in sorrow and confusion and although the end provides a ray of hope, the book is overall very sad.  I do recommend it, but don't read this if you are looking for the charming story about the bonds between women that I found in Sister of My Heart.  The bonds are still there, but they are sorely tested.	2004-03-18
US	49273902	R4ZOO1VGKN3AQ	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Easy reading. Simple cases.	Precious Ramotswe is a single, forty-something woman in Botswana who opens a detective agency with her inheritance.  In the beginning of the book we learn about her father's life as a miner and we are introduced to the country.  We also learn about Precious' upbringing, her head for figures and her failed marriage.  Precious struggles with establishing a new business, but she gets cases.  They are not all the typical detective story mysteries about malicious crimes.  Most are more concerned with the human heart and relationships between people.  There is a woman whose long lost father finds her, but she suspects that he is not really her father and is taking advantage of her kindness and generosity.  There is a woman who is upset that her husband stole a car and she wants the car returned without her husband's knowledge or the involvement of the police.  There is a father who believes his daughter has a boyfriend and he wants to know who the boy is.  There are a number of other cases and I enjoyed them all.  This was very easy-reading and not a complex detective story, but the setting was fun and the reading enjoyable.<BR> <BR>Recommended.	2004-03-16
US	49273902	R1780HNTOC6GRI	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Teenage Love in 1930's England	Cassandra keeps a journal as an exercise to practice writing and she records the events that occur over the period of about one year.  She is a 17-year-old girl who lives in a rundown, but romantic castle in England with her family.  Her father, James Mortmain wrote a novel years ago that was wildly successful and earned alot of money, but he hasn't written anything since and now the family is impoverished to the point of hunger.  Cassandra is kept company by her older sister Rose and her eccentric stepmother Topaz while her younger brother Tom makes infrequent appearances because he is mostly in town at school.  And then there is the servant Stephen, an extremely good-looking young man devoted to Cassandra.  He so hates to see her hungry that he takes a job to contribute his earnings to the household.  However, the father discourages any interest Cassy might have in Stephen because he is from a different social class. <br />The real excitement starts about 100 pages into the book when the Cotton family arrives at the nearby Scoatney estate.  Neil and Simon are wealthy Americans and Rose sets her sites on Simon because he is the heir.  Anyone who has ever been poor can somewhat relate to the girls predicament.  Rose's desire to marry wealth would not only ensure enough to eat and buy pretty new clothes for herself, it would ensure the same for her family (since her father shows no signs of changing and Simon is kind and generous).  <br />I think young adults would enjoy this book because the rest of the novel is about young love.  The relationships lack real depth and the ending is somewhat open ended which some will like and others will find disappointing.  I can't really imagine being 17 or 20 and being as naïve about boys as Cassy and Rose, but I suppose things used to be very different.  The real charm of this novel is the enchanting atmosphere of the castle as depicted through Cassandra's rose-colored glasses.  Most of the characters seem shallow and we didn'tsee enough of Stephen, the only person I actually admired, but somehow Cassy's rendering of the whining characters makes them likeable.	2004-03-09
US	49273902	R1WRCHYDRQ1GDM	0451207076	147215657	Leaving Ireland	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Entertaining, but not as beautifully written as 1st novel.	In Leaving Ireland, Grace travels on a ship bound for America with her toddler daughter in hopes of a better life with her brother Sean in New York. Sadly, she has left behind her father and infant son who surely would not survive the terrible journey. Grace and her daughter live through all of the horrors of an ocean crossing in the 1840's: cramped quarters, hunger, disease, death and cruelty from the first class passengers and the crew. However, the Captain is a decent man and when he successfully brings his ship to port, Grace and her daughter are still alive. They are welcomed into a safe, clean home above a pub owned and operated by kind people who provide employment, food and lodging. Thus Grace avoids the tenements, lack of employment opportunities and much of the extreme prejudice that most Irish immigrants face in their shared position with the blacks at the bottom of the class structure. <br />The story suffers from too many subplots that distract from the story of Grace. The Irish continue to struggle with famine and poverty in their homeland and we witness this through Grace's sister-in-law Barbara who is a nun back home. Another part of the story is about Judith, a friend of Grace's former husband who takes care of Grace's son and becomes attached to him. Sean becomes involved with the Mormon religion and looks more to the West and the future than back toward Ireland. And there is the black slave Lily that Grace befriends late in the book. Lily left behind 2 children and a husband in the South and hopes to have them smuggled north to freedom. Whenever the story switched to another character, I wanted to get back to Grace. <br />The tragedies that befell Grace and the Irish in the first novel made their strength, courage and faith heartbreakingly believable because it was a nationwide occurrence. The events in this story seemed plausible, but the villains seemed too orchestrated. I did enjoy this book and will read another about Grace. But it just didn'tpossess the same lyrical quality and beautiful writing as Gracelin O'Malley.	2004-03-02
US	49273902	R39IXTIHSNWC0T	0451202996	443461985	Gracelin O'Malley (Gracelin O'Malley, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strength, sadness and faith in famine-ridden Ireland.	Grace's mother dies in an accident that cripples her brother when they are just children.  As all Irish families do, the O'Malleys struggle to get by on a patch of Irish land owned and governed by the English.  So when the English landlord Mr. Donnely wants to marry the fifteen-year-old Grace, she agrees and marries up to a better life for herself and her family.  She moves away from her community of Irish neighbors and friends to the fine house of her husband who is very kind to her at first.  But as time goes on Grace witnesses his cruelty first hand and the famine and fever that sweep Ireland wreak tragedy for all.  <br />The sentence structure and language are evocative of the Irish way of speaking without using spelling to create the character accents and reading each paragraph was a pleasure.  The story started off a bit stilted but quickly picks up pace and finds a rhythm.  There is a secondary story line about the Young Irelanders who organize to rebel against the English, but it isn't overly political nor does it distract from the story of Grace.  These characters remind us how important family and faith are.  We create happy and meaningful memories in everyday life with those we love.  The starvation, sickness and cruelty were very sad and I shed a tear or 2.  Grace is a bit too perfect, but I loved her all the same and will move onto Leaving Ireland.	2004-02-18
US	49273902	R1WRK5LRS0F8S9	0380723409	757232213	Virgins of Paradise	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Multigenerational saga of Egyptian women ~1945-1990	This novel of soap opera style love, honor and family secrets is intelligently told against a backdrop of Egyptian politics with a feminist theme focusing on the oppression of women in a male-dominated society of centuries long tradition.  The rights of women and men in Egypt are drastically different.  There is a passage in the book where one woman decrees that women should be informed by their husbands if they are being divorced, informed if they are taking a second or third wife, be given the right to divorce their husbands if they are being physically abused...basic rights that I expect as an American woman.  A young woman in the novel dishonors her family by being raped, another because her hymen was broken innocently and she would not produce blood as proof of her virginity on her wedding night.<br />Amira is the matriarch of the prosperous Rasheed family.  The story begins in 1945 and it is Amira's ever-present voice throughout that links the many women and children as their lives unfold through the years until the end of the book in the early 90's.  Her husband has died and her son Ibrahim is now the head of the family.  His first wife dies while giving birth to his daughter Camelia.  Driven by grief and shame for not having a son, he curses God and disappears to Europe.  He comes back with an English wife, Alice who also bears him a daughter, Yasmina.  Although they want more children, the couple has bad luck with subsequent pregnancies and like many men in Egypt, Ibrahim becomes obsessed with producing male heirs.  He takes the drastic measure of claiming the son of a beggar girl as his own.  Most of the story focuses on Amira, Ibrahim, Alice, Camelia and Yasmina although there is a large cast of supporting characters.  <br />I was appalled by the lack of rights and limited choices for women.  It was entertaining and educational without being overly preachy or political.  It was a fairly long book at 600 pages, but I really enjoyed reading it.  Recommended.	2004-02-09
US	49273902	RWHBLUZIZFIBF	0385721307	650667943	Quattrocento	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some great parts, but not a coherent whole.	Matt O'Brian is an assistant curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC.  For about 100 pages, he is in New York in the present.  He has discovered a painting in the bins in the basement of the Met that he starts to lovingly restore.  Matt feels a connection to the young woman he uncovers from beneath the layers of age and he starts to fall in love with her in spite of the fact that he has a real relationship with a woman named Sally.  Matt has delusions or episodes where he sees into the past or beyond this world into another and his reality differs from the experience of those around him.  It was confusing to the story and the flow and these parts could have been written more clearly.  There were also a couple of transitions between scenes that were awkward and poorly done.  And the author has a tendency to overuse similes and metaphors that I found didn't fit with the writing style sometimes.  <br />After about 100 pages Matt goes back in time to Quattrocento Italy.  There he meets the object of his desire, but the love story is a very small part of the book and very tame.  What the author does very well are the great little passages on art, music, physics, falconry, and the manufacture of paint and gunpowder.  I loved the bird in flight series of paintings.    Some people might find the topics pretentious, but I really enjoyed them.  I liked the parts on art the most, but as with all novels that discuss art, it would be beneficial to the reader to see some pictures of the artworks described.  There is a studiolo in the novel and if you don't already know what it is, it's hard to visualize from the descriptions.  I recommend looking at a photo of the studiolo, Leonardo's Ginevra, Brancacci's chapel and other artworks mentioned.  A few quick searches on the internet yielded what I was looking for.  At the end of the book Matt is sent back to the present, which he finds different than when he left and Matt struggles to find his way back to the time and placethat he truly belongs...to Quattrocento Italy and Anna.<br />I think there are answers to many of the gaps in the story in the author's head that he didn't explain clearly or enough and that this book could have been a lot better with some constructive feedback about the awkward areas.  I thought parts of it were quite good, but they didn't add up to a great book.	2004-02-06
US	49273902	R155DQB7E0ZTI2	0441008968	374275778	The Black Chalice	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Belief, betrayal, love, but not enough of characters I liked	It is 1105 in Medieval Germany. Karelian of Lys has just returned from the Crusades with his squire Paul and a retinue of his men. It was a long, horrifying war, but Karelian has earned some land and money and wishes to settle down and raise a family. But, on the way to his wedding, a witch queen magically summons Karelian to her fabled castle in the mountains for the purpose of forging an alliance. She has powers that tell her Karelian's liege lord, the Duke believes he has the right to rule all of Germany and Christendom. He will not only bring war to the country, he will want to eliminate worship of the pagan deities she is devoted to. The Duke's attempt to take the crown of Germany will test loyalties in this novel of belief, magic, betrayal and love. Sorcery is inconsistent with Paul's Christian beliefs and although Karelian wants to live the rest of his life in peace, his love for the witch queen and his own beliefs draw him into the political struggle.<br />30 years later, Paul is a monk and he has been commanded to put the story to paper. However, the witch queen's enchantment forces his quill to spin the story truthfully, exposing all motivations and events regardless of whether Paul would have described them in a different light. Although Paul is writing the story, there are times where the perspective shifts and segments are narrated by the witch queen or Karelian, and these were welcome breaks from Paul's inner-conflicts. I would have appreciated a more linear chronicle to the flashback storytelling, but the device provides ample opportunity for Paul's self-reflection and ruminations about faith. Unfortunately, there is nothing redeeming about Christianity in this book and the pagan gods provide a contrast. Then there is the magic, which I determined to be a genetic trait, as religion seemed irrelevant to its practice. Although there is little magic at first, it builds in its usage until the magic is openly exercised as the conflict escalates. <br />There are a lot of great things about this book. This story truly sets a sense of time and place and the characterization was excellent. Although I know the whole book didn't take place in winter, much of the story does, and the overall feeling is cold and bleak due in part to the descriptions of the landscape and also the battles, killing, rape and other violence in the book. The writing was very well done. The part of the book where we meet Karelian's betrothed and learn about her narrow life and the consequences of her actions for a small piece of happiness were so well done, I would have appreciated more about her and her son. I didn't find the story as satisfying as I thought it could be and that is mostly because I wanted less of the irritating Paul and more of Karelian, his wife, his lover and the other characters I liked.	2004-02-03
US	49273902	R12O63MDP3L8DM	0393324915	569559452	The Lost Garden: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Courageous and poetic story of Longing, Loss and Faith.	It is the summer of 1941. WWII makes London a more dangerous place to live every day as bombs destroy sections of the city. The main character is Gwen, a lonely 35-year-old woman living in London and working in a laboratory. Her occupation as horticulturist provides her the opportunity to volunteer to lead a Land Woman's Group - several young girls who will plant gardens for the good of the war effort on a beautiful estate somewhere in the English countryside. A group of young Canadian men live nearby on the estate as they await orders to be sent into combat. <br />Gwen discovers a secret garden that was created in honor of longing, loss and faith. She becomes friends with Jane who is waiting for news of her soldier fiancé reported missing. And she has an attraction to Raley, the CO of the Canadian men.<BR> <BR>The language is poetic and often quite lovely. The story is pretty good, but not great. There are a few flaws in the novel. The voices of Gwen, Jane and Raley are too similar. I thought the novel started off a bit pretentious, but as it continued, I found myself admiring the turn of a phrase or a clever metaphor. The author seems to bear her soul in this novel and I found it refreshing and courageous. This book was short, but so full of sadness. This book will linger in my memory.	2004-01-23
US	49273902	R1IBTBSJ5FRYB8	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unsurprising in plot &amp; character but satisfying nonetheless.	Griet is a teenage girl living in the 17th century city of Delft Holland.  Her father can no longer work as a tile maker because he lost his sight and the family is in need of money.  So they find Griet employment as a live-in servant in Vermeer's household.  The scenes are short.  The characters are not deep and the town is narrowly depicted through Griet's life of laundry, shopping and cleaning.  <br />The only luminous part of Griet's day is cleaning Vermeer's painting studio.  She must clean, but take care to place every item back precisely where it was.  Griet doesn't mind.  She has had practice cleaning and replacing items in their exact place for her blind father.  But most importantly, she gets an opportunity to look at what Vermeer is painting.  As time goes on, she eventually assists Vermeer with the preparation of paint colors and the more time she spends with him, the more she comes to admire and long for Vermeer and the imaginary world he creates on canvas. <br />In the real world, Griet's family struggles. Her younger sister becomes ill, her brother toils as a tile maker's apprentice, and her parents scarcely make do. The butcher's son is courting Griet and a future as his wife is a realistic match and an improvement from her current situation for both her and her family; a butcher's son would ensure that they do not go hungry. <br />Vermeer produces several paintings in this novel including a portrait of Griet wearing a pearl earring. I recommend being able to take a look at the artworks mentioned in the book. I found myself referring to the 2 on the cover and I looked at the Procuress and others when I was reading about them. The entire book is unsurprising in plot and character, but satisfying nonetheless. It felt as if only the necessary details were left in the novel crafting a sparse and finely formed story that I easily enjoyed. I will certainly be reading more of Tracy Chevalier.	2004-01-22
US	49273902	R3F6D4KETNUI6W	034546219X	536325671	Remnant Population	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Unhurried tale about the freedom and peace of solitude.	This unhurried tale about the freedom and peace of solitude and success in later life is presented as science fiction, but I believe people at any stage of life can relate.  <br />Ofelia is an old woman who decides to stay behind on a colony planet she has called home for half her life when the sponsoring company decides to move the colonists to another world.  She is ready for a few years of freedom at the end of her long life.  The freedom to wear what she wants, eat what she wants, rise and rest when she wants.  She spends a few seasons and about a hundred pages alone.  Then she encounters native intelligent life i.e. aliens and Ofelia gets acquainted with them and watches them learn at a marvelous rate that belies her initial impression of their childlike intelligence.  Off world powers become aware of the intelligent life and send a group of specialists to study them.   <br />This book was slow moving, but the writing was lovely.  For some reason, I really like descriptions of weather and gardening and Moon provides plenty of both along with rather simple arts and crafts of bead painting and clothes making that I rather enjoyed.    The story of rising to success and finding oneself highly valued, respected and useful is not new.  But I have never read a book where the main character is old and Ofelia offered a refreshing perspective.  I enjoyed this book.<br />Recommended.	2004-01-06
US	49273902	R3KIQHSCVH7ZFJ	0452283558	66868280	The Captain's Wife	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Predictable plot.  Enjoyable story.	Mary is the 19-year-old wife of a merchant ship Captain named Joshua.  Mary has traveled with her husband at sea once before and she enjoyed the freedom and the adventure of seeing distant cities.  Joshua's upcoming trip is from New York to San Francisco and Mary decides to join him.  In the 1850's, the fastest route was to sail south from New York around Cape Horn at the tip of South America and back north to San Francisco.  As the Captain's wife, Mary has no duties and much free time.  Boredom causes her to seek the knowledge of navigation and her husband obligingly teaches her to use a sextant to determine the ship's position and plot the ship's course.  This skill becomes necessary when the Captain falls ill over 100 pages into the book.  The difficult First Mate cannot perform the duty and the Second Mate doesn't have the knowledge or experience.  Mary navigates and nurses her husband and the journey becomes a bleak and depressing ordeal rather than the happy free time Mary had hoped for.  She must also face the possibility that her husband may not recover and cope with the emotional and physical consequences of her first pregnancy as the ship struggles to get through winter storms and a avoid a sea of icebergs trying to reach it's destination and medical help.    <br />Nothing in the plot is terribly surprising and the turn of events are even expected based on the synopsis and reviews.  However, I wanted to continue reading because I enjoyed the gentle introduction to the sailing terms and Mary's perspective regarding life on a long voyage at sea.  Mary's character is not too deep, but I found her likeable and her reactions plausible, if understated.  It feels as if the author has not taken great literary license and he tries to stick to the facts even though very little is known about this actual historical trip.  <br />Recommended.	2004-01-02
US	49273902	RHAZ942HNB4W9	0751503894	976980602	The Physician (Cole)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	How far would you go in pursuit of knowledge?	For a novel entitled 'The Physician', I thought there would be a great deal more interaction with patients, discussion of diseases, treatments for injuries and generally dealing with being a healer.  That is not to say that the book doesn't contain these elements, but I did expect and would have enjoyed more.  However, Rob's goal to be a physician serves as a mechanism to walk the reader through different facets of the fascinating world of the early 1000's.  <br />The novel covers approximately 20 years of Rob's life from the age of 9 until he is about 30.  The story opens in London, when Rob is a child.  He is quickly orphaned and fortunately becomes the apprentice of a barber surgeon and travels around England entertaining crowds, treating minor ailments, selling a physick that is mostly alcohol and realizing that there is a great deal more to be learned about healing.  After about 10 years, Rob decides that even though he makes a good living as a traveling barber surgeon, he doesn't want to continue with his occupation until he knows as much as he possibly can to help those that seek his healing talents.  <br />Rob chooses to embark on an ambitious trek to Persia to study at the greatest medical school of the time.  He spends many months getting there and once he arrives, Persia serves as the setting for most of the remainder of the book.  He cannot study at the medical school as a Christian, so he masquerades as a Jew and there is a bit of introduction to the 3 major religions, but more in terms of geography and how it affects a persons place in society rather than focusing on the actual beliefs.  I found the book slow at some points, but it was so full of history brought to life that I was happy to continue reading.  The book is long, but I didn't want it to end because I hoped there would be more of Rob's life back in England and Scotland and more about the application of the skills and knowledge he spent years obtaining.  But there is very little of this in the last chapters of the novel.  <br />Still, this book brought me to such a different time and place with Rob Cole and I will definitely pick up 'The Shaman'.	2003-12-23
US	49273902	R2A13U6P33W3ZL	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What is the definition of Guilt?	You know from reading the back cover that the novel is about Grace Marks, a teenage servant girl accused and convicted of the murder of her employer and a fellow servant in Canada in the year 1843.  James McDermott, her partner in crime was convicted and hanged.  Grace can't remember what happened the day of the murders, so we are left to wonder for almost the entire book - did she do it, or does guilt rest entirely with James McDermott? <br />When the story opens, Grace has already been in jail for about 10 years.  There are many pages of setup containing straightforward storytelling interspersed with newspaper excerpts, poems, letters and testimony.  We are introduced briefly to Grace's life in prison and become acquainted with her crime and her notoriety.   It is common practice for prisoners to work as servants in the warden or prison Governor's home and part of Grace's daily routine is to do sewing and cleaning for his family.  We also meet Dr. Jordon, a mental health expert attempting to break the lock on Grace's memory.  <br />After about 100 pages, Grace begins a linear narration of her life through sessions with Doctor Jordon.  She tells about how she came to Canada with her large family on an ocean voyage from Ireland and continues with her employment as a servant.  We hear a great deal about sweeping, scrubbing, sewing and laundry and it becomes clear that Grace takes pride in her work.  These psychotherapy sessions alternate with the book's present (10 years after the murders) and we learn that a local Reverend and a group of Grace's supporters believe in her innocence and are fighting to have her freed.  We also get bits about the Governor's wife and daughters, and the Doctor himself.  The respectable women and the Doctor form a nice juxtaposition to Grace's story because they illustrate the expectations, restrictions and privileges of class and gender.<br />This is not a murder mystery in the conventional sense.  The reader may believe that Grace's innocence or guilt is the main point of the story as late in the book, we eagerly approach the hypnosis that occurs.  Details about her participation in the murder are uncovered that are ambiguous, but also revealing.  In the final chapters, time does move on and we learn about what happens to the Doctor, the Reverend, the Governor's daughter and of course, Grace, in a satisfying conclusion. <br />Margaret Atwood's technique is remarkable.  The story raises questions about the nature of guilt, innocence, forgiveness and how the actions of others and the prescriptions of society affect the range of choices available to a person.  There are a few passages in the story that offer glimmers of Grace's psyche and there are several gems that make the story vibrate.  This story is better enjoyed with discussion. <br />Recommended.	2003-12-22
US	49273902	R14DRHX52Y7USS	0553250426	302380866	The Clan of the Cave Bear: Earth's Children, Book One	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Struggle for acceptance in a prehistoric adoptive family.	I reread this book recently after having read it for the first time 15 years ago and I enjoyed it again. The setting is somewhere in Eastern Europe about 35,000 years ago. The premise is that 2 divergent human species occupy Europe at that time. After a horrible earthquake, the medicine woman of the Clan of the Cave Bear finds an orphaned and injured young girl of the `Other' type of humans. Ayla is cared for and loved by the aged and scarred priest Creb and his medicine woman sister Iza who act as her parents. But she looks different and her way of thinking is different than the ways of her adoptive people, (presumably Neanderthals, while she herself is Cro-Magnon?) and she struggles for acceptance. <br />The story covers approximately 9 years of Ayla's life from the age of 5 until the age of 14. Although we are lead to believe that she was born to people that are taller, more agile and more innovative than the Clan people, Ayla is the only person of her kind that we encounter in this story. The traits of Ayla's people are determined based on her fragmented memories and her own emerging talents as she grows. The Clan people are stockier and stronger than Ayla and communicate mostly with sign language while Ayla recalls communicating verbally. <br />The Clan people rely heavily on inherited memory and have clearly defined gender roles, which Ayla continually grapples with. She cannot restrain her curiosity and she is constantly challenging the rules with her aberrant behavior. Ayla wants to learn to hunt with a sling, but it is forbidden. She learns the art of healing from her new mother, but because she is not a birth daughter, the members of the clan have reservations.  She has a grasp of mathematics and the gift of sight that would make her a good priestess, but that path is not open to women.<br />We have all felt out of place and therefore everyone can identify somewhat with Ayla. I liked Ayla's spirit and the way she excels at everything she sets her mind to.I particularly loved the herb lore and descriptions of tribal living in the cave. I like learning how the clan hunted, clothed themselves and managed to live through winters. The religious ceremonies were nicely drawn and the funeral descriptions give a sense of the spirituality of our evolutionary forefathers. A warning to readers that there is some sexual violence in this novel. <br />Recommended.	2003-12-11
US	49273902	R1L3HQZKZHST0Q	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not commercial pacing, but lingering and thought provoking.	The setting is an island off the Washington Coast during the 1950's.  I thoroughly enjoyed the beautifully descriptive passages of the landscape and the snowy setting.  I was especially enchanted by the childhood explorations of Ishmael and his friend Hatsue into the natural world of the shores and forests of the Pacific Northwest.  However, I often found the pace of the novel too slow and the flashbacks confusing.  At points in the story, I struggled to continue reading and I thought I would give this book a lower rating.  But I found myself thinking about Snow Falling on Cedars long after I'd read it.  I read a lot of books and the lingering impression merits a higher mark.<br />The story opens with the discovery of the corpse of one of the town's fisherman.  Hatsue, the wife of the accused murderer and Ishmael, now the town journalist covering the courtroom events, were romantically involved in high school before WWII separated them.  The ensuing murder trial is interspersed with a series of flashbacks revealing the evolution of Ishmael and Hatsue's friendship into a secret romance, the family's expectation that Hatsue marry a man of Japanese heritage and the personal consequences if she does not, the treatment of Japanese Americans during WWII, Ishmael's combat experiences and the community's hidden undercurrent of racism by both the Caucasians and the Japanese.<br />After I finished the book, I found myself thinking of Ishmael's love for Hatsue, the demands of family, the cost of love, prejudice, jealousy and the effect of closure on one's ability to move forward in life.  Was Ishmael and Hatsue's relationship really stunted by the influence of family and society or was the love one-sided?  The issues were dealt with in a manner too similar to real life to provide instant gratification - jumbled memories, resolutions that are difficult to figure out for yourself even if obvious to others, the past can be hard to let go of, sometimes you never really know how another person viewed the same situation, there are no easy answers... <br />If you are looking for a fast paced entertaining novel, don't read this book.  Watch the movie instead.  It does a great job capturing the overall tone and effect of the book and is faithful to the events of the novel.  But if you are up for a challenge, the quiet tone together with the thought provoking issues make Snow Falling on Cedars worthwhile.	2003-12-10
US	49273902	R11WHBBNEQ43PG	038548951X	764861011	Sister of My Heart: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simple and touching story about the bonds between women.	Anju and Sudha were born on the same day in Calcutta to a fine Indian family.  Unfortunately, it is the news that both of their fathers have died that caused their mothers to go into labor.  The 2 cousins are raised in a home full of women - their mothers and a widowed aunt with only the quiet, scarred chauffeur Singjhi, as a male presence in their lives.  Anju and Sudha are so close that they can't stand to be in separate classes at school, they know the exact things to say to one another in all situations and they are the absolute best of friends.  <br />The story is told in the first person and is narrated in alternating chapters by Anju and Sudha.  In the first half of the book, we learn about their personalities, their childhood, their sweet love for one another and we also learn a secret about Sudha's father that causes her to feel indebted to Anju.  Sudha is the beautiful one.  She loves to tell fairytale stories and she believes in love at first site.  Anju is the outspoken and practical one who wants to go to college and run her mother's bookstore when she grows up. When the girls reach their 18th birthday their mother's arrange marriages to appropriate husbands and the girls have a double wedding.  Sudha sacrifices running away with her true love for the sake of Anju's happiness;  Anju's marriage depends on a spotless family reputation.  How much of this sacrifice is prompted by her love for Anju and how much is because of the guilt she feels over her father's actions?  <br />The rest of the book is about their difficulties adjusting to life in their husband's households without the support and friendship of their close relationship.  After a few years of marriage, Anju and Sudha become pregnant at the same time.  But these pregnancies cause a great deal of heartache.  I don't want to spoil what happens, but you should know that this part of the story made me cry.  The book is mostly set in Calcutta, but the story is about relationships, and the location adds just a bit of flavor to the narrative.  The author inserts fanciful metaphors and tales about princesses that make the book seem a little magical, but the true magic is the bonds between women.  This touching book struck a chord in me because I have a 'sister of my heart' and I know how much our relationship means to me.  <br />The ending was satisfying even though a thread of the story is left unanswered and is dealt with in the sequel Vine of Desire. <br />Highly recommended.	2003-12-10
US	49273902	R1QFIMM1G490VW	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good overall story. Underdeveloped characters, conclusion.	As a child, Joan was inquisitive and quick-witted. Her small triumphs and displays of courage as she grows leave the reader hungry for her rise to success. Her father's desire for her older brothers to become priests along with a series of convenient life changing events lead to Joan's education. She is allowed to go to school.  There she meets Gerold, the love of her life. But they are tragically separated after a Viking raid in which her brother John is killed. <br />Joan assumes her dead brother's identity in order to enter the protection of a monastery, and her life disguised as a man begins. After many years at the monastery Joan fears that her gender will be exposed, so she flees and travels to Rome.  In Rome, her medical skills become reknowned and she is called upon to cure the ailing Pope.  Her success brings her into the circle of the most influential religious leaders of the time. Gerold also reenters her life and he is the only person in Rome who shares her secret. <br />I expected more from the romantic and political storylines in the later chapters in terms of insight into Joan's internal conflicts, her pride in her accomplishments and the power of her office. I thought there was a decent ending even though it was somewhat abrupt.  However, I would have liked the author to cover the uproar the discovery of her gender must have caused.<br />Joan's quick wit, her strength, the fairs, the weddings, and a general feeling for the era all contributed to a good overall story. The addition of a further layer of character depth and a more developed conclusion would have added substantially to a satisfying reading experience.  However, I was definitely engaged by the intriguing life of the legendary Joan, a woman who may have reigned as Pope in the 9th century.	2003-12-01
US	49273902	R1M2DCR33K5J01	0345338545	92131502	Follow the River	Books	5	6	6	N	N	How much can the human body withstand?	This is the fictionalized account of the capture and escape of the real Mary Ingles.  Mary is 23-years-old when Shawnee Indians attack her home on the western edge of the frontier in Virginia in 1755 and kidnap her.  She is taken to an Indian village hundreds of miles west but remarkably, Mary has the presence of mind to count the days and commit landmarks to memory.  After several months of captivity, she escapes.  Driven by the desire to see her husband and others of her own folk again Mary overcomes numerous obstacles as she travels for 6 weeks in late autumn using the river as her guide home.   <br />The first 150 pages are about the attack, the journey west and captivity.  The author uses these events to paint a portrait of Mary that enables the reader to believe Mary had the courage and will (that few possess) necessary to survive the incredible, disgusting, despairing, and ultimately awe-inspiring 600-mile trek home.  I couldn't put the book down.  Even when the starving Mary resorts to eating bugs and the leavings of buzzards I was compelled to read in spite of my revulsion.  A stick, a knife, a blanket and food are no longer everyday items to be taken for granted; they are the tools of survival.  A warning to the squeamish - Even though the author has plainly depicted events without over describing, there are some gross passages (childbirth, beatings, being burned alive, hunger which leads them to eat anything and causes vomiting and diarrhea).  <br />I had a little trouble believing that the human body could withstand such abuse.  It didn't seem possible that the body could continue to exert so much energy at that level of starvation.  But the author brings the realities of Mary's incredible journey to life and it is based on a true story.  Red Heart is another Thom novel I recently read.  Also recommended, but I like this one better.	2003-12-01
US	49273902	R2FNMGF602KFPJ	0553273914	934590882	The House of the Spirits	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Powerfully emotional epic of family and nation.	This book spans 75 years starting in around 1900 and takes place in an unnamed South American country.  We meet Clara the clairvoyant as a child and her future husband Esteban whose children and grandchild populate the story.  As the novel progresses, social issues are seamlessly woven into the plot and political tensions escalate from generation to generation.  There are numerous colorful and memorable supporting characters.  The dense descriptions and myriad relationships are superb.  About 2/3 of the way through the book I realized that the magical beginning had been supplanted by politics and I was being lead toward a conclusion of violent and terrible realism.  But I persisted and was swept back into the story and found the return to the House of Spirits a satisfying ending.  I was extremely impressed at how well done and enjoyable this powerfully emotional novel is.	2003-12-01
US	49273902	R39UEHF9ABZWMT	059526882X	822467225	A. D. 62: Pompeii	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Reads as if intended for a younger audience.	Miranda is a modern woman sent back to Pompeii in the years before it is destroyed by earthquake and the famous volcanic eruption.  Within the first 2 pages she is in the past and there are very few references to her life in modern times throughout the rest of the book.  Poor fishermen pull her out of the sea and sell her to a slave market for money.  Although Miranda is naïve about the myriad potential sufferings of a slave, the possession of a device intended to transport her back into the future at the press of a button gives her the courage to submit to slavery and remain in the past, thus satisfying her curiosity about ancient Pompeii.  Miranda luckily winds up in the home of a wealthy couple and their 2 children.  She eventually raises her status by telling stories and playing wonderful music.  She befriends Tullia, the 13-year-old daughter of the house and after some months, she becomes her attendant.  She also becomes the mistress to the head of the household, Marcus Tullius, and they fall in love.  <br />If you are seeking a time-travel romance with depth, excitement and adventure that you can get lost in for hours, this is not the book that you are looking for.  I read it in a few short hours.  If it weren't for the few loves scenes, I would think it was intended for a much younger audience because the writing style is so like a child's fairytale.  This is not a bad thing.  It is just not what I had expected when I started the book.  The plot is thin and predictable, but told in such a simple way with bits of information about life in Pompeii and several enchanting tales told by Miranda that the result is a very quick enjoyable read.  There is no depth or passion to the romance.  There is not much in the way of time travel having a dramatic effect on plot (aside from one satisfying prediction of an earthquake).  The book suffers from some repetition and typographical errors and a far too neat conclusion.  <br />But it has a happy ending and I still enjoyed it.	2003-11-20
US	49273902	R1ZRY17GU81AC6	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Remove author &amp; wife.  Insert self &amp; spouse.	An Englishman and his wife buy a farmhouse in the countryside of Provence.  I presume they are wealthy and retired, because they haven't a care in the world about money and they don't have anywhere else to be.  And they certainly don't have jobs.  The book starts on New Year's Day and chronicles the author's first year in his new home in a rather detached narrative.  The author's wife, his guests and anything not French are somewhat shallowly described and often aren't even given names.  If they have kids, I don't recall them being mentioned.  I certainly have no idea how old they are.  I therefore had no trouble inserting myself and my husband in place of the author and his spouse in this picturesque fantasy.  <br />The real characters are the locals, the workmen, the café owners, the neighbors, their quirky habits and the divine cuisine.  Some of the anecdotes seem contrived or shifted in time to accommodate the structure of the book in chapters based on months, but I didn't care.  I loved the descriptions of the food, the markets, the country roads, the truffle hunting...<br />I found the author's style of writing very charming, if somewhat impersonal, and the situations that would induce a working city woman like myself to explosive anger are injected with an innocuous sarcasm that just made me chuckle with laughter.  Even though the author must deal with sporadic remodeling, a constant stream of uninvited English guests, the cleaning of the pool etc., Life is good.  So don't worry.  Eat, drink and be happy.<br />I read 2, 3 or 4 chapters at a time and I had no trouble putting it down.  I even read another book after August and picked it up to read September after a particularly hectic day and I finished the book in that sitting.  This was not a page-turner.  But I enjoyed it anyway.  I have never been to France and I read this book as a work of fiction.  I didn't read it to get acquainted with Provence nor did I read it to assist with a decision to travel there, so I have no idea if it is accurate or not.   I feel that I am no more familiar with the south of France now that I have read this book, so it didn't seem helpful in that regard.  What I do know is that is was delightful and soothing, like a relaxing vacation or a good cup of tea.	2003-11-20
US	49273902	R3TPI1UKQ247D4	0345364716	470879212	The Red Heart	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Somewhat sad story.  Overall enjoyable.	This is the story of Frances Slocum, as well as a sad tale of the Native American people's loss of homeland and life at the hands of the `new' Americans.  Based on the life of the actual historic Frances Slocum, the novel's Frances is kidnapped in 1776 from her Quaker family at the age of 5.  The history has been edited, but this is a novel and doesn't claim to be nonfiction.  Frances is taken to replace the dead child of an Indian woman whose own daughter was killed by whites.  Frances and her adoptive family, Tuck Horse and Flicker spend many years running from war in search of a peaceful place that the Americans will allow them to call home.  <br />The storytelling is simple and well done.  The descriptions of Niagara Falls, the Great Lakes and American lands are wonderful.  Thom manages to give Frances the voice of a child when she is young and her voice matures as she grows.  As she grows, so does the population and expansion of whites into territory once occupied by Indians.  More and more information about how the Indians are being killed and pushed out of their homeland is woven into the narrative in later chapters.  The history of the politics sometimes overwhelms the story of Frances, but it does explain a lot.  There are occasional updates on her Quaker family's constant search for their missing relative.  These updates are brief and do not interrupt the flow of Frances' life story.  They illustrate how the Slocum's always kept her in their heart and thoughts and prayers.  Both Frances and her family are depicted as such kind and good people, which seems too simplistic for realism, but it made for very nice reading.  Because of the accounts of Native American life and the heart-touching persistence of her family, I enjoyed this story in spite of the suffering inflicted on the Indians.  Recommended.	2003-11-19
US	49273902	R1UHPTU2AY34ZO	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Entertaining read, but no wows from this reader.	The pacing of the story is great.  The author certainly manages to grab your interest at the end of every chapter, forcing you to continue reading to satisfy your curiosity.  So I was never bored.  But I was expecting brilliance and instead I found that the mystery and the puzzles were just ok.  The characters were mediocre.  Even though some may find the religious topic thought provoking, this book doesn't require deep thinking.  I read this book very quickly.  I think I would have enjoyed it more if I hadn't heard all the rave reviews.  Entertaining read, but no wows from this reader.	2003-11-19
US	49273902	R13KSREATWADOY	0684863324	210776895	GARDENS IN THE DUNES: A Novel	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Enchanted Gardens, Lush and Vivid botanical descriptions	I loved this novel because of its vivid descriptions of plant life and gardens.  I live in an urban environment and flowers, trees, colors and scents are not part of my daily life.  I just couldn't get enough, and Silko creates dazzling gardens everywhere throughout her book. <br />The first section is about a young Native American girl named Indigo, her Sister Salt and their Grandmother Fleet.  They are making a life for themselves in a small town in the American Southwest around the turn of 19th century.  Their greatest wish is to return to the home of their people, the Sand Lizards, and tend their desert garden in the dunes.  But they are in constant fear of being caught by the white government and forced to live in schools or on reservations.  <br />Although the beginning of the book is wonderfully descriptive, I became very engaged with the characters about 50 pages in.  Indigo escapes from the Indian school and wanders into the gardens of Hattie and Edward, a wealthy married couple.  Edward's monkey, Linnaeus, charms Indigo out of hiding and as the 2 get acquainted, we learn of Hattie's life.  <br />Hattie was a scholar devoted to studying the role of women in early Christianity.  However, the all male Harvard review board rejected her thesis topic and when she returns home, she meets and marries Edward, an older man with a professional interest in botany.  Edward travels the world in search of plant specimens and his trip to South America to gather rare orchids is described in detail.  In Brazil he was sabotaged, causing him personal injury as well as legal and financial difficulties.  His leg was hurt so badly that intimacy is painful and unlikely for him, but Hattie wished to marry him regardless of their passionless future.  With the intention of curing his money problems, Edward seeks out profitable citrus cuttings guarded closely by the Italians.<br />Hattie becomes attached to Indigo and persuades Edward to let Indigo travel with them.  Edward has planned a trip to Italy and en route they visit their families in Long Island where we get a glimpse into the frivolous lives of the wealthy and visit their cultured gardens.  Indigo meets other Native Americans whose land and lifestyle has been taken from them.  The story turns to Sister Salt who is now living in the Southwest with other Native American Indian girls.  Sister Salt has become a laundress and works in an area where the government is building a dam to divert water to California, taking more life-sustaining farmland away from the Indians.  Meanwhile, Indigo, her pet parrot Rainbow, Hattie and Edward travel to England and visit enchanting gardens in Bath, then more charming gardens in Italy where Edward pursues his illegal scheme.  There is an underlying theme of the deification of snakes and the worship of the Mother figure that is explored and lends an air of mysticism to the novel.<br />Throughout the story Indigo and Sister Salt long to be reunited with one another and we always wonder if it will happen.  The story could have been edited in several places and I was upset by the violence against Hattie in the end of the novel.  Could the author have still made her point without Hattie's loss being so extreme?  Overall, I enjoyed this book immensely and I loved the journey it took me on.   It is laced with many issues that are thought provoking and still relevant in today's world:  feminism, religion, environmental awareness, class structure, oppression and beliefs about our relationships with others, the earth and our spirituality. I loved Indigo, Sister Salt and Hattie.  I loved the mesmerizing Ghost Dance, Grandma Fleet's apricot tree, the lively Linneaus, the miniature farm animals, the Rainbow parrot, the eccentric Aunt Bronwyn, the allure of long distance travel by train and by boat, the snake in the water hole and most of all the lush and enchanting gardens.	2003-10-24
US	49273902	R3M71KIPEOMTP8	1566491606	584944189	Lady of Hay	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Promising start...but ultimately disappointing	Lady of Hay makes a promising start. Jo is a young journalist who researches past life regression for a magazine article. As research, she undergoes hypnosis and discovers that she is not only easily hypnotized (so easily that later in the book someone calls and hypnotizes her over the phone!) but in a previous life she was Matilda de Braose, a 12th century Welshwoman. How exciting, I said to myself. This could be very fun. Matilda is a real historical figure. I love historical fiction. I would enjoy the puzzle of matching past lives with present characters, and of course I hoped for romance. But alas...it was not to be. <br />The first half of the book was great.  It keeps up a good pace and intriguing events unfold as Jo and her present life alternate with regressions to Matilda's existence.  But by the second half of the book there is no new material and far too much repetition as well inexplicable violence against the main character that simply turned me off to her possible love interests. In the 1st half of the book we learn that 3 men love Jo in both the past and the present and we know who they were in their past lives.  We also learn about the end of Matilda's life very early in the story.  So where can the author take us from here?  <br />I hoped that some of the modern day characters besides the 3 men would eventually be revealed to have some involvement in the past lives or a more important role in the present.  However, they don't.  I also expected that that the author might expand on history and offer an explanation for the legend of Matilda building Hay castle in one night.  She doesn't.  And I was disappointed with the mundane theory about rumors that Matilda was a witch.  The explanation: she studied herb lore with her nurse Jeanne and rides horses swiftly, like a man. But perhaps most disappointing of all is the fact that Nick, the man she is in love with in the present was very cruel to her in her past life and not very nice to her in the present and there is no satisfactory explanation of why.  Nor did it seem that his behavior was ever an obstacle to their relationship in the present.  And what about Sam's behavior?  The actions of 2 of Jo's lovers leaves me questioning how much if at all, they really care(d) for her.  Richard was the one nice guy and I was hoping he would somehow turn out to be a hero, but when he turns out to be a junkie I think my hopes for a satisfying finale were extinguished.<br />Maybe the fact that 3 men are supposedly in love with the main character is the romantic attraction of this book.  Or is it Jo's suffering that is intended to be attractive?  Perhaps I was ultimately disappointed because of the promising start, but my advice is to skip this book.	2003-10-22
US	49273902	R20NMZVPA6S2K5	0553382047	591346591	Last of the Amazons	Books	3	1	3	N	N	ok story.  absorbing fight scenes.	In the beginning of the book an Amazon woman escapes captivity and a young girl runs away from her Athens home to follow. A posse is assembled and several of its members are men who met and battled with the Amazon tribe in their youth. As the chase progresses, these men recite events in flashback chapters until the entire account takes place 20 years before and traces their voyage to Amazonia in what is now Turkey. This back and forth goes on for about 100 pages and is disruptive to the flow of the story.  But, it finally moves entirely into the past and that's when we meet the Amazons and things really improve. <br />In Amazonia, the Athenians encounter a tribe of women warriors.  The Greek King and the Amazon war Queen fall in love. In the aftermath of a battle, the Queen makes an unpopular decision and she leaves her people to join her lover when he returns to Athens. The Amazons feel that Athens and city living in general is a threat to their tribal way of life. Rallied by a false claim that their Queen has been kidnapped, the people of the plains unite to march on Athens and lay siege to the fledgling democracy. <br />There are alternating narrators and frequent jumps through time. The flawed narrative structure and the flat characters left me thinking there was a whole story behind the story. There is also an element of the writing style that provides long lists of names that I eventually just skimmed. The descriptive passages of the fighting on the plains, during the siege, the one on one fights for honor and victory, all were vivid and absorbing. I could sense the work that went into crafting every page. By the time it was drawing to a close, I thought, wow this guy can write.<br />I wish that the same work that went into crafting every passage had been put into creating a better overall story with an easier flow. This book contrasted city life and tribal living, highlighted gender roles and asks what's worth fighting and dying for. <br />I thought the bookwas good.  The author is obviously talented, but this book could have been great and it fell short. 3.5 stars.	2003-09-29
US	49273902	R1N0R945YLJCTB	0684871734	373279179	City of Dreams: A Novel of Nieuw Amsterdam and Early Manhattan	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Soap opera-like plot.  Authentic medical &amp; historical detail	Lucas Turner, a barber-surgeon and his sister Sally Turner, an apothecary, arrive in the Dutch settlement of New Amsterdam to start a new life in the year 1661.  Lucas starts an affair with the butcher's wife.  Sally is raped and impregnated by an American Indian.  Lucas trades Sally as an unwilling bride to the Dutch physician Jacob Van der Vries for the money required to be with his lover...and so the soap opera and the family feud has started.  <br />City of Dreams follows their lives and the lives of their descendents up to the American Revolution, jumping through time in each new section of the book and switching the focal characters tied together through family, medicine and geography.  Jennet, a colorful descendant of Lucas Turner, links previous and future generations.  She is a young woman interested in medicine but forbidden to practice because of her gender.   She marries a wealthy Jew whose secret occupation is running whorehouses and dealing arms.  This part of the story exposes us to the seedy underworld and politics of historic Manhattan leading up to the American Revolution.  <br />The more serious and interesting topic of this fictional work is the evolution of the practice of medicine in NYC.  The gains in medical science in the early days of modern medicine were won over public superstition with great sacrifice and suffering by the patients who were sometimes healed, sometimes guinea pigs and sometimes unfortunate victims.  Operations appear in all there gruesomeness.  This book is not for people who faint at the sight of blood.  Descriptive passages walk you through amputations without anesthesia, the horrible conditions of the city's early hospitals, fatal abortion attempts, pox vaccinations and more.  There is a keen edge to the surgeon characters, making them capable of inflicting unendurable pain in the name of healing.  Contrasting the surgeons were the apothecary healers, administering medicine, or the physicians of the wealthy with their accepted practices like leeches.<br />There is so much historical detail and as a person that has spent many years living in and around Manhattan, it is horrifying to learn that slaves were burned alive on Wall Street.  But I also had fun imagining the entire island covered in trees and woodland paths with boats in the harbor.  Visit [...] to see great illustrations like the one of a horse drawn carriage on Broadway and Canal street where the Collect Pond was, or read the time consuming recipe for making soap that Roisin learned from her mother.  <br />As much as I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, I couldn't give it 5 stars because some of the plot seemed over the top, even for my entertainment tastes. But I totally enjoyed this book and wonder if the loose threads (treasure) will be covered in a sequel.  I would be eager to read it.<br />Quick paced, entertaining read with great medical and historical detail.  Recommended.	2003-09-29
US	49273902	R15X63VGBK3DT7	0312281250	646590028	The Ghost of Hannah Mendes: A Novel	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Deeper than your average Romance Novel	Catherine da Costa is a wealthy, elderly New York Jew who learns that she is dying and realizes that the family tree may die with her 2 single granddaughters.  She receives visits from the Ghost of Hannah Mendes, a Renaissance ancestor based on the actual historical figure Gracia Mendes, born in Portugal in 1510.  Hannah's ghost offers advice to Catherine.  Send your granddaughters in search of my memoirs.<br />Catherine persuades her granddaughters, twenty-somethings Francesca and Suzanne, to put their lives on hold and travel to Europe in pursuit of Hannah's lost diaries.  As they discover portions of the manuscript, the story switches from the present to the past and describes Hannah's life during the Spanish Inquisition.  Hannah and her family are forced to leave Spain and convert to Christianity while practicing their religion in secret.  Hannah marries a fellow secret Jew and they become enormously wealthy through a thriving business of trade.  Hannah uses her power and influence to assist those fleeing from religious persecution while trying to evade persecution herself.  Meanwhile, in the contemporary storyline, Francesca and Suzanne meet wonderful Jewish men and fall in love as they reconnect with their heritage and learn of the suffering their ancestors faced in order to practice their beliefs.  <br />I picked up this book because of the beautiful cover art and the synopsis sounded good.  I am not Jewish and I had no expectations of this book in terms of learning something about Jewish traditions, Gracia Mendes or the plight of the Sephardic Jews during the time of the Inquisition.  I can see how some might expect much more depth to this easy reading romantic story.  Some difficult questions are asked.  How does a family instill the importance of tradition, respect for our ancestors and maintain a sense of our family values?  The author concludes the story with the simplest of all solutions facilitated by a ghost, but in the real world interfaith marriages, marriages without children or living single are becoming increasingly common choices.  I do understand the message that embracing our roots is part of each person's wonderful uniqueness and that the freedom to practice what you believe is not a right that should be taken for granted.  The themes of religion, tradition and family are common to humanity and were certainly touching in this book.  But the tone was very light and I didn't take the book too seriously.  <br />Overall, this was a fun read with a happy ending.	2003-09-12
US	49273902	R12JZJ24MUFF6D	0671878719	683475924	Once A Hero	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice combination of space setting, heroism and personal grow	Apparently, there are 3 novels that take place before Once A Hero:  Sporting Chance, Hunting Party and Winning Colors.  I was not aware of these books focused on Heris Serrano when I bought Once A Hero.  And there are 3 books that take place after:  Rules of Engagement, Change of Command and Against All Odds.  <br />In Once A Hero, Esmay Suiza is the leading woman.  She is a young lieutenant on trial for her involvement with a mutiny that took place in the previous novels.  Fortunately for her, she was a hero and the Court Martial is supposedly a formality.  It is nonetheless stressful on Esmay and tests her self-confidence while forcing her to examine her choices.  I enjoyed her strength of character as she reviews her testimony and role in the incident.  It was also a good introduction to Fleet, this book's space military.<br />After the trial, she goes to visit her home planet of Altiplano.  Esmay comes from a wealthy and powerful family of General's, her father being one of them.  We get a taste of a different society in which male and female roles are traditionally well defined.  In contrast to Fleet's court martial, her home planet hails her ceremoniously as a hero.  Because she is a woman, her success in the military would not have been possible on Altiplano, making the warm welcome all the more meaningful to her.  While she is there, a tragic hidden past and a family betrayal are revealed.  Esmay must face some hard truths.   <br />She returns to Fleet to continue in the navy and is reassigned to a space station.  Esmay becomes acquainted with the station and the duties required of her position in the technical track. She struggles with her true desire to be command track and reflects on how the violent crime against her when she was a child has impacted her personality and behavior.  She also tries to modify her ingrained sense of courtesy.  A potential love interest, Barin Serrano, explains that things considered rude on Altiplano are perceived differentlyin the Fleet culture and are affecting her image.  A whole new part of the story develops in which an attempt is made by the evil Bloodhorde to take over the space station and Esmay is given an opportunity to draw upon her abilities to make important command decisions and stand out as a hero once again.  <br />There are several things I didn't like about the book...the manner in which the enemy is defeated came off as silly to me.  There are some repetitive comments about how people think Esmay has promise and why won't she come out of her shell and when will it happen.  Also, the subject of sexual violence seems a very serious issue to address and while it didn't bother me, I can see how this portion of the story or its treatment may not appeal to everyone.  <br />I did love the details.  I really imagined the space station, the special suits, the ships and what life in space would be like.  I loved Esmay's dedication, hard-working attitude and rise to success.  I did go on to read the next book in this series and found it  lacking in comparison to Once a Hero.	2003-09-05
US	49273902	R3EX3VB7QYN7CT	0671578413	482440614	Rules Of Engagement	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Not Once A Hero	After finishing Once a Hero and thoroughly enjoying it, I immediately purchased Rules of Engagement.  In this novel, the story is split between Esmay Suiza, her potential love interest Barin Serrano and Brun Meager, the beautiful, spoilt, headstrong daughter of a rich and influential political leader.<br />Brun latches onto Esmay at Copper Mountain, a military training facility where both are taking classes.  Esmay simply doesn't have time to play friend, tutor and mentor to this very pushy, outgoing yet charming woman because she has switched from technical to command track and has to double up on courses.  Esmay does like Brun and tries to be pleasant, but Brun also flirts with Barin, the young man Esmay likes.  Esmay doesn't know how to handle liking Barin or Brun flirtations and it strains their relationship to the point of an explosive argument between the 2 women.  Esmay is disgraced and Brun storms off and gets kidnapped by a radical group of villains whose beliefs allow them to oppress and mistreat women.<br />The rest of the novel jumps between characters...the reaction of Brun's father to her kidnapping, the rescue effort, Esmay, Barin, Brun, her fellow captors, the villains, the villains wives...I found there were pages I wanted to skip because I just didn't care or find the information relevant.  I always enjoy the parts of the story when Esmay is on Altiplano, but that is a small part of this book.  I also don't understand why in a book about a completely made up future universe, Moon would decide to pick Texas, a place that exists in America today and make our descendents evolve into crazy extremists in her book.  Why offend her readers when she could just as easily have made these villains based on a fictitious culture?  I did think the book was readable, but I can't recommend it and I won't continue with the other books in this series.	2003-09-05
US	49273902	RPP2PGGW2QSEZ	044991089X	323071985	Greenlanders	Books	5	80	84	N	N	Richly Detailed and Chilling.  Amazing Novel.	I picked this book up at the store because of the attractive cover art. I had no idea that this story was written in the style of a Norse saga and it took a little getting used to. However, I was immediately drawn into the lives of Gunnar, his sister Margret, and their families as well as the details of daily life. Margret, whose emotional and physical needs are not met by her husband Olaf, dares to have a secret red dress that foreshadows events to come. She enters into an adulterous affair with a sailor who is working at the family's homestead. This illicit relationship leads to violence and tragedy. This happens about 80 pages into the novel and represented a turning point for me. Because I realized that this wasn't the kind of storytelling I am used to. I would never know as much as I wanted to about the characters feelings concerning life-changing events. At first, I was shocked at the detached recounting of major and often traumatic incidents. I could have put the book down, but I accepted this fact and continued to read because I wanted to find out more about Greenland. And that is the real story here, the story of the Greenland settlement and the forces that cause its decline. <br />The story doesn't focus on Margret throughout, rather it introduces different characters and as they are introduced, the interactions and influence of each person manage to create a bigger picture of what citizens of this isolated and bleak society faced. New facets are exposed, physical, mental and spiritual. Different aspects of the story include the increasing conflict with the Eskimos encroaching on the settlement as the weather gets colder in the north, the need to hunt in forbidden fjords as game becomes less plentiful, the abandonment by Europe as visits from the mainland decline and cease, the mystique of the American paradise they cannot reach, the introspection and ravings of their religious leader...There are visions, love-affairs, accidents, murders, family-feuds, starvation, death, exile, departures and all the rich descriptions of a land totally foreign to me. At one point a young girl chooses to marry a virtual stranger who arrives on a ship. When she sails away into the unknown world, leaving her homeland forever, I felt fear and excitement. Was she brave to leave? Or would it be braver to stay? I understood the total isolation of these people, their madness, their courage, and their battle to survive. <br />This was not a page-turner. It was a challenging read. But so well worth it. The simply stated feelings of the characters, which I was at first disappointed with, left me free to imagine what was going through their minds. And I did so vividly. When I finished this book I was awed at the web it had spun around me without my being aware. I had truly experienced a different time and place and I believed this story really happened. This is the best book I have read in a really long time.	2003-08-28
US	49273902	R1GVN4P1DR9NNV	0553801406	988712650	Lake in the Clouds	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Suprisingly Satisfying	The cadence and sensitivity of Donati's writing subtly infuses the reader with a sense of wonder and admiration for the main characters - the women.  Donati's men are ever-present, but supporting characters whose plotting and intelligent involvement in the complexities of the story are hidden from the reader.  The women take center-stage and the story focuses on the relationships between them and their families.  <br />    Elizabeth, the star of the previous novels in this trilogy, seemed a bit easier to relate to than her stoic step-daughter Hannah Bonner.  Elizabeth is capable of making mistakes.  Her courage is over-coming fear of loss, an even greater challenge after grief has worn her down.  Her courage feels human.  <br />   In contrast, the trials and tests that Hannah faces -- prejudice, the challenges of doctoring, the loss of innocence, the contrast between country and city life, injustice and more -- are enough to cause anyone to weep.  But this saintly woman truly breaks down only once in this novel, after the death of a patient and friend acts as the proverbial `straw that broke the camels back'.  <br />    Surely it is also true that love is like lightening sometimes, but I did want to better understand what made Hannah's leading man so attractive to her.  Especially since all the characters and their relationships were so nicely developed.  But perhaps that will be further explored in the next novel.  <br />    Still, however unbelievable Hannah's strong character seems, by the end of the book, the reader relates to her as a young woman with the same thoughts and desires as any other.  She evolves into a credible and inspiring role model -- the way we've felt in the past books and this one about Elizabeth and Curiosity.<br />    For me, this book wasn't fast-paced or a page-turner.  In spite of the well-designed plot, I was able to put it down.  But that is not to say it was boring.  I always returned to it because I knew that something new was soon to develop - the introduction of Lily to the joys of drawing, the maternal sacrifice of Selah Voyager, the endearing and tragic Kitty, or the devilish scheming of Jemima Southern.<br />    In the end, it was gratifying to see that contributions to humanity and the community do not go unrecognized.  That, along with the disturbing and clever justice orchestrated by the men left me unexpectedly satisfied.  There were some loose ends, but they were minor compared to the neat conclusion of the main threads of the story and loose ends can always make for nice surprises in a follow up book.	2002-08-19
